The Notre Dame Scholastic
37

COMMENT
Smoking a pipe is one of the minor pleasures of life. A cigarette is sweet but briefly sweet; a cigar is merely an enlarged cigarette, and by the time you are three quarters through smoking you have usually a rather tattered rope end in your mouth. Now there are none of these drawbacks connected with the smoking of a pipe. You load, light, and contentedly puif away.
As you puff away, quietly and happily, the smoke, curling in the air, winds itself into little spiral and filigree patterns that rise and then fall away. But before they have perished in the open tomb of the air, you have had the opportunity of seeing little shapes and figures that, possibly, may mean something to you. And, meaning something, linger in your mind.	'
And so it is, on a much different scale of course, with reading. Many magazines, are like cigarettes; briefly sweet but soon forgot; and the taste is increased by each successive “smoking” in the pipe of the memory (a smoking that leaves no ash).
Many books are cigars! That is, they are compilations, gatherings, as it were, of the material going into cigarettes. And the mind chews on the ends of the books (literally here!) but does not swallow.
But a pipe! Ah! A pipe! Each “smoke” of pipe, or real book, gives us something. A vision is formed. Out of' disappearing words, fleeting smoke, comes something. And when you are through you can see your ash; it is not scattered on the Oriental beneath you.
Likewise with the written word. When you have finished you have the boiled down thought—or should I say fired down? Anyway you have the residue, there, in the bowl (maybe Dunhill, maybe corn cob) of your memory.	L
And when you knock the ashes out, you know that they have done something towards “caking” your mental insides.
But we really have to disullusion you. During the time we have been writing this, we have been smoking —nothing. Our pipes are curved— and the smoke goes into our eyes when we write . . . .but we’re through now ....
|	" Ghe |
| Noir r e Dame 5cholas7r i c | | t>isee-Quasi-Semper-Viet uriLS-Vlve'-Quasi-Cras-Moritum 1
=	Founded in 1872	5
:	Murray Hickey Ley........................Editor-in-Chief	■ E
E	Harley L. McDevitt.......................Graduate	Manager	E
i	EDITORIAL STAFF	|
:	Walter Langford..........The College Parade	.=
5	Joel Eceker...............Music	and Drama	=
E	Alfred E. Gall..............Script Editor	=
E	T. Vincent McIntire.......Managing Editor	E
:	Thomas A. Keegan....Assistant Managing Editor	5
=	-	J. Archer Hurley.................The	Week	:
=	Emil L. Telfel............Features Editor	=
x	Joseph Reedy.................Campus	Clubs	E
=	LITERARY STAFF	NEWS STAFF	SPORTS STAFF	z
Z	Richard E. Sullivan,	John Bergan, News Editor	John A. Kiener, Sports Editor	=
	Literary Editor	James J. Kearney	William J. Magarral,	
	William Knapp	Paul Hallinan	Intcrhall Sports Editor	
-	Louis H. Hasley	James (Collins	Harry A. Sylvester	z
z	John L. Nanovic	Howard Webster	Henry B. Asman	z
Z		Thomas A. Cannon		—
z		Richard J. O’Donnell		
2		Neil Horley		•
Z		BUSINESS STAFF		z
Harrington J. Noon.....Local Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman. ..Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davis....Local Advertising Manager James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John Blanda
Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan
1 VOL. LVIII.
SEPTEMBER 27, 1929
E The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of E E	All Notre Dame Men	E
PlnmiiiiiuiiiwniiHHiiiiiimHHiumiiwimiiiiiinmiiiiiimwimiiiiniiimHHHmmnmiwinmwHHmmmwimwmiiiHmpl
No. 2	|
TABLE OF CONTENTS
= The Week—Archer Hurley___’--------------------------------’ 38 E
E	Coming Events_____________________________________________ 39	E
| Music and Drama—Joel Egerer--------1---------------------- 40 j
E	Campus Personalities—Emil L. Telfel----------------------- 41	j
E	3,051 Enrolled This Fall—Howard Webster------------------- 41	|
=	Cotillion Plans Announced—Paul Hallinan------------------- 43	E
E	Campus Clubs—Joseph Reedy--------------------------------- 44	j
:	College Parade—Walter M. Langford------------------------- 45	5
1	The Wink__________________________________________________ 46	|
=	Editor’s Page_____________________________________________ 47	E
E	Double Plays—Walter M. Langford--------------------------- 48	3
|	If I Were Einstein—Victor Martzel------------------------- 50	|
E	A Price of Authorship—Jack Dempsey 51	E
=	I’m 'Not Clever—Shawmus O’Shaughnessy--------------------- 52	E
E	Of Professors—Brother Emil, C.S.C.------------------------ 53	|
E	Afterthoughts—Brother Loyola, C.S.C.---------------------- 54	=
E	Notre Dame to Have Well Balanced Team—John Kiener--------- 55	E
Th f: SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may he addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Vv ell, the first issue of the Scholastic didn’t cause any of those sombre cornices to fall from over the windows of the Main Building, the Ave Maria presses can still run overtime, providing one can prove that his grandmother really did die the night before, and the editoi' smiles just as readily as he did before his last shave. And that is more than can be said for the first editions of most magazines. From the unappreciated masterpiece which appeared over my Alpha down to the insignificant box filler in a lonely corner, inviting freshmen to come over to the press room and read proof, it was all—a first edition. And if you have ever tried to make anyone think you believed in first love you know the futility of attempting to prove that first efforts can ever be lasting.
‘"A
Z1ND they all clapped their wings and cried, ‘Billy MaGee, MaGaw.’ ” A line selected at random, gentlemen, from the prolific library of literary ballads to be found in Vince Maclntire’s room. The ballad is about crows that were celebrating something or other—possibly the finding of a dead horse. Crows show their enthusiasm, so it seems, by crying, “Billy MaGee, MaGaw.” On the campus we sometimes grow enthusiastic, too. Only here it would add but one more meaningless phrase to the jargon if we shouted, “Billy MaGee, MaGaw.” So we try to get the campus trees to voice our enthusiasm, and even our greetings, by giving some fortunate trees a mission in life. They are told to shout at everyone in eight-inch letters, “Hello Men.’ ’ This in honor of the freshmen, who wouldn’t otherwise realize that they were men. And then to save us the nuisance of speaking to friends we are placarded with a monstrosity of Hoosiei' extraction, who extends a ham on his right arm while voicing an echo of the deafening roar from the enthusiastic trees.
a suggestion merely, why couldn’t mechanical statutes of Gipp, Rockne, and myself, be placed in front of the postoffice? When a street car approached the statue trio would harmonize in a recorded “Victory March,” followed by a verse of “Ho do you do!” for the comfort of the freshmen. A mechanical handshake might even be arranged. This idea I offer to the S. A. C., and for a very small consideration. ^^OMING EVENTS was the heading used in the last issue to cover a multitude of errors. Now any event that hasn’t already come can be expected sooner or later to come. Some people in moments of that confidence only to be found between friends, have told me that even death will come. However, I am asking no one to believe that on my authority, as it has not yet come to me. But listed under
the Coming Events we were forewarned of a movie to be expected in Washington Hall Saturday night. A crowd of brave men consequently jammed the stairs of the hall. Like the Jews, in more than one way, they awaited a prophet to lead them into the promised shades. Father Mulcaire dispersed the mob by letting them in on a secret to the effect that the hall was being remodeled and would not be in use for several weeks. Most of them left, as three weeks is quite a while to wait for your first glimpse even of a remodeled Washington. Incidentally, there are a few reserved seat tickets for the campus shows which can be bought at a nominal price from Charlie Woods in the book store.
VV ALTER Eckersall, the seminarians, and I attended the Freshman-Varsity game of last Saturday. We saw fourteen, or fifteen, or perhaps even sixteen squads of AllAmericans pushing grass up each others nostrils. Mr. Eckersall makes a fairly good referee, although he should know better than to contradict Joe Savoldi, but as a sports writer he is only a fledgeling. Joe Lordi, one of the heaviest football pushers ever to squeeze under a refectory table, was not so much as mentioned in the Tribune’s report of the game. Besides having played a spectacular game, Lordi sustained injuries that might have resulted in blood poisoning, for Doc Abbott himself told me that barking the skin off one’s little finger, as Joe did, has put more than one man into a doctor’s clutches. Lordi is up for congratulations, and when he gets tired come down and tell me about it.
S ORIN HALL is about the only tradition that still stands on its own legs. The others have fallen before generation upon generation, until now we have to read a student directory to even remind ourselves of them. Probably the hypocrisy which comes of legislatures giving birth to such hybrids as Prohibition has corrupted the American respect. Or perhaps the girls who tell us in Hozawitski English that their taste for Luckies isn’t based on susceptibility to emotional advertising have destroyed our faith in human nature and tradition. Anyhow, the traditions are being replaced with a belief in the divine right of a man to choose his own breakfast—or eyesores. Breakfast isn’t a concern of mine,’ as sleep is, but I have decided opinions on the subject of eyesores. And when Sorin hall blossoms out in curtains that have the prettiest little flowers and department store patterns imaginable, then, gentlemen, has our only tradition suffered an eyesore. An eyesore that verges on the pinkeye, as a look at the curtains will attest. Our traditions are in need of a rejuvenation—pick the flowers from your curtain and save them for a corsage.-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
39
❖ ❖	**• «£• «£•	»j» «J» »j» $	»j»
! I Coming Events 11
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ * * *
FRIDAY—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications’ office, 7:00 p. m.—“Howdy Hop,” Palais Royale, 9:00 p. m.
SUNDAY — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY—“Assessment Week” and “Organizations Week” commences. —Pittsburgh Club meeting, Badin “Rec,” 8:00 p. m.—Rochester Club meeting, Law Bldg., 8:00 p. m.—K. C. meeting, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—Chemist’s club meeting, Chemistry hall, 8:00 p. m.— Wranglers’ club meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Scribblers’ room, 8:00 p. m.—Wabash Valley Club, Law Bldg., 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY—Detroit club meeting, Badin “Rec” room, 7:30 p. m.— Spectators’ meeting, Spectators’ room, 8:00 p. m.
STUDENT TRIPS ARE ANNOUNCED BY S. A. C.
According to the University officials and Student Activities Committee, the student trips this year will be Wis^ consin, October 19 and the University of Southern California, November th. Both of these games are to be staged at Soldiers’ Field, Chicago. Due to the fact that there are to be no local “home” games this fall, two trips, instead of the customary one, have been allotted to the student body
On these dates, all classes will be excused, whether the students attend the game or not. Each one will be taxed a dollar in order to defray the expense of sending the band to all four games held in Chicago. Special trains are to carry the student body to Chicago. The price of the trip will be $3.60. Admittance to these games will be free, due to the fact that they are considered “home games.” Permision to attend the Drake and Northwestern game may be had by applying through the regular channels for a week-end permission. Tickets to the Drake game will be issued free of charge to those attending, while the regular price of three dol-* lars will be charged for the Northwestern game. Only those having
relatives in Chicago may attend the Northwestern game.
Although definite plans have not as yet been made for entertainment after the games, the Chicago Club of Notre Dame is sponsoring a victory dance after both the Wisconsin and Southern California games.
“HOWDY HOP” TO BE HELD TONIGHT
Tonight the Freshmen will have their first official opportunity to attend a dance sponsored by university authorities, when the “Howdy Hop” will be held as the climax of “Hello Week.” This dance, which is the first of the year, is also the first affair of such a nature that has been sponsored as a part of the “Hello Week” campaign. The affair is to be held from 9 to 12:30 p. m., South Bend time, at the Palais Royale ballroom. Tickets for the dance, at the price of one dollar for either stags or couples, can be obtained from the rectors of Howard, Freshmen, and Sophomore Halls.
MANY DIGNITARIES AT FRANCAIS FUNERAL
The funeral of the Very Reverend Gilbert Francais, C.S.C., former Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross was held in Sacred Heart Church, September nineteenth. The Most Reverend Peter J. Hurth, C.S.C. celebrated the pontifical Mass with Reverend Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C. acting as deacon and Reverend John B. Delaunay, C.S.C., as subdeacon.
The Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C. preached the funeral sermon in which he ranked the deceased as second only to Father Sorin whose work Father Francais had taken up.
Father Francais was buried in the community cemetery beside Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame and the first Superior General of Holy Cross in the United States.
AU members of the'order here at Notre Dame attended the funeral. The lay faculty and student body were well represented. Among others, were members of the S. A. C. and the Knights of Columbus. A number of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the Sisters at St. Joseph’s Farm, who attended Father Francais during his last illness, were present.
Visiting dignitaries were: The Most
Reverend Peter J. Hurth, C.S.C., DJ). archbishop of Bostia and assistant to the Pontifical throne; the Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C. D.D. Bishop of Helena, Mont., former rector of Holy Cross Seminary; Right Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Ft. Wayne and founder and editor of “Our Sunday Visitor”; Right Reverend Francis Howard, D.D. Bishop of Covington; Very Reverend Father Charron, provincial of the Holy Cross Order in Canada; Reverend Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., president of St. Thomas College in St. Paul, Minn.; Reverend John B. Delaunay, C.S.C., editor of the “Bengalese,” missionary magazine; and Reverend Father Lyons, Superior of the Paulist Seminary at Washington, D. C.
BROTHER AIDAN NEW BROWNSON RECTOR
Brother Aidan, C.S.C., has taken over the rectorship of Brownson Hall, succeeding Brother Alphonsus, who has held that position for some thirty years. Brother Alphonsus will leave active duty to spend his time studying bird lore. The Brownson smoker, which he originated some years ago, will be held within the next three weeks in his honor. '
CLEVELAND CLUB HOLDS INITIAL MEETING
Arrangements for a banquet to be given next Wednesday night, October 2, were begun at the first Cleveland Club meeting held in the Law Building on Tuesday evening, September 17.
The new members of the club were introduced to the upperclassmen, the purpose of the club explained for their benefit, and an explanation of the coming year’s activities given.
A committee, consisting of John Beljon, Dick Bloom, and Walter Ridley, was appointed to complete details for the banquet which will be held at the LaSalle Hotel.
BEG YOUR PARDON I
Last week we announced that the Lay Faculty Award, given to Professor Edward Joseph Maurus of the College of Engineering consisted of $5.00 in gold. The amount should have read $500; but in the hurry of the first issue the presence of the offending period was overlooked.
40
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Music and Drama 11
Opening a new column presents difficulties but to write a treatise or resume of this type with not a scrap of material at hand is, to say the least, a problem. The concert schedule for the University has not as yet been announced and the local musical club is a veritable Sphinx on its coming attractions.
As for drama the Oliver Stock Productions could be pressed into service and even the movies stand a chance of being maligned by caustic University criticism but they must wait until a later date when events in drama and music are at even a lower ebb than the present.
The old “Golden Horseshoe” has gone the way of the souvenir spoon and the mustache cup and in its place is the “Platinum Parabola” • or in other words the line of boxes has been straightened out to what it was in the old auditorium, so we may say that boxes are fewer and more expensive. Downstairs seats or in fact seats for the opening nights anywhere in the house were sold out months ago and for prices that are almost too much to mention. However, all in all the Chicago presentations will be as magnificent, spectacular and astounding as there have ever been in the operatic world.
Still another' event happened last week that has every one in musicdom simply holding his or her respective breath and that is that Toscanini has resigned from La Scala. This is not a wee bit of news, it is an earthquake, a Twentieth Century Wreck or a Chicago fire; and furthermore he has signed a contract for a series of concerts in this country. To think that the immortal conductor is actually coming here to stay when only three years ago he could not bear America and the only reason he would come here would be to make some much needed money. Whether or not he will come further West than Philadelphia no one at present seems to know and if they do they are keeping powerfully quiet about it.
Vladimir Horowitz is making a return engagement this minute in the Windy City and those that missed him last year cannot think of doing so again and the fortunate ones that heard his concert last season could not hold themselves from going if they wanted to.
HASLEY ELECTED PRESIDENT OF SPECTATORS
Louis Hasley, senior in the College of Arts and Letters and formerly secretary of the Spectators’ Club, was elected President at the last meeting held by the members, after the resignation of John Dubuisson, who has served as president since the organization of the club last year. Robert M. Dinkle, charter member of the organization, was also elected to succeed to the position of secretary.
Mr. Hasley is known as a prominent campus writer and his competency in this particular field is verified by his works of last year, including poems, essays, and short stories. He served as associate editor on the Juggler’s staff, and at the same time was a frequent literary contributor to the Scholastic, as well as a feature writer for othei’ magazines.
The Spectators’ Club had its origin in the Junior class of last year, and to quote an abstract from an editorial on the subject, the organization is “indicative of a significant trend in undergraduate life.” The discussions prepared and presented by the Spectators at their meetings are looked upon as a superior stride in the University organizations of Notre Dame. The purpose of the Club reflects the pertinence of its name, “The Spectators.”
MISSIONERS TO LEAVE FOR BENGAL, INDIA
Three Notre Dame men, now in the robes of the Holy Cross mission band, will leave about the middle of October foi' the settlement of Dacca, in East Bengal, India. Reverend Joseph Rick, C.S.C., Reverend Edward Wetzel, C.S.C. and Brother Damien, C.S.C. are the three men and their work will be the spread of the Gospel in that land, a missionary country of the Congregation.
Reverend Rick, of Houston, Tex. entered Notre Dame’s engineering school in 1917, but transferred to Holy Cross Seminary across the lake two years later. He received his Litt. B. at this university in 1924 and was ordained Dec. 22, 1928. Reverend Wetzel, a Louisianan, entered Holy Cross Seminary when he was 14. He was ordained on June 24, 1928.
Brother Damien, C.S.C., (Daniel Daele before his profession) is a Belgian. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1925 with a Ph. B. degree and was professed in 1925.
MISSION FOR UPPERCLASSMEN ENDS TOMORROW Tomorrow morning will see the close of the upperclassmen’s mission. The Mass at 6:30 in the Sacred Heart Church, followed by the Papal blessing will conclude the Mission, which started last Sunday evening.
The Reverend Richard Collentine, Superior- of the Holy Cross Mission band, conducted the services which consisted of Mass and instruction each morning and a sermon and benediction at night.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS HOLD FIRST MEETING .
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers officially opened the scholastic year Monday evening with a “Welcoming Meeting” for the Electrical Engineering Class of 1930.
After a few introductory remarks by the chairman, in which he outlined the purpose of the national institute, Dr. J. A. Caparo, the dean of the department, made a brief talk, urging that an active -interest in the affairs of the local branch be taken by every member. Mr. Northcott and Mr. McCoy, of the faculty, expressed their good wishes for the success of the organization. The new members, of the class of ’32, were then introduced by the chairman.
Following this, Mr. Edward J. Dempsey was elected to serve as treasurer, filling the vacancy created by Mr. Huebner, who did not return.
In his concluding remarks, the chairman outlined the objectives of the Notre Dame branch, stating that the organization exists not only for the purpose of fostering good fellowship, but also for the intellectual benefit of the student. Reports are to be presented at each meeting by members, in addition to talks made by practicing engineers, who are regularly invited to speak.
After the business session, refreshments and smokes were served. There were 85 members present.
❖---------------------------:-—*
NOTICE!
Contributions to the Literary section of the Scholastic may be mailed or delivered to Richard Sullivan, 228 Lyons Hall. Poetry, short-stories, sketches, one-act plays, and essays of every kind are suitable for publication.
♦------------------------------4 k
The Notre Dame Scholastic
41
»;♦ »j.	»*« »j» .j. «j. »;•
|| Campus Personalities II

“I’m afraid there isn’t much you
can write about me,” said Bob HelL
rung, after we had stated the purpose
Robert T. Hellrung
of our visit, “but you may quote me as saying that the Students’ Activities Council invites the hearty co-operation and firm confidence of every student and faculty member, in its attempt to make this a banner year f o r achievement and betterment in departments of student life at
Notre Dame.”
Having said that, Bob thought that he had said enough. It was hard to get him to talk about himself. The S. A. C. was the only subject that he would talk freely about. However, with the help of “Spike” England, Bob’s roommate (“Spike” is an old friend of ours), we succeeded in coaxing enough facts from him to make an article. Here are the facts.
As you may have guessed by this time, Bob, whose full name is Robert Thornton Hellrung, is connected with the Student Activities Council. Very much so—in fact, he is the president of that august body. This is Bob’s second year as an S. A. C. man. Being president is not a new sensation to him, as last year he was president of the Junior’Class. He has been a student manager ever since his freshman year, and his work as a manager must have been as excellent as his work in other lines of endeavor; for he was rewarded this year by being appointed to the Senior Baseball Managership. In his sophomore year Bob was on the Decorations Committee of the Sophomore Cotillion.
There are two things that Hellrung is very proud of. The first is the Junior Prom of last year . . . the “Prom Beautiful.” He honestly believes that it was the “most successful prom held during the history of the University,” etc. We are willing to take his word for it. Secondly, Bob is very proud of the work of the
S. A. C. so far, and their future plans. “Organizations Week,” to promote better relationship between the freshmen and the upperclassmen of the various campus clubs, is an idea tried out for the first time by the Council. The free show given at the Palace yesterday and the “Howdy Hop” to be held tonight are also innovations that have never been attempted before. Bob has a right to be proud of these achievements of the organization of which he is the president.
Hellrung lives in Sorin Hall. Being a personality, he would live there. His home town is St. Louis, where (according to “Spike” England), he is a leading social light and hasn’t missed a dance in years. Last, but not least, he is a senior in the College of Commerce. Now the freshmen know all there is to know about the tall, blonde young man who was one of the speakers at the recent Freshman Convocation.	e. l. t.
“JUGGLER” ANNOUNCES SATURDAY AS “DEAD-
LINE DAY”
Saturday, midnight (or any time before breakfast Sunday morning) is “deadline” for all material for the Freshmen Number of The Juggler. All contributions must be in the room of the Editor, 130 Sorin Hall, or in the Publication’s Office, Main Building, before that time. Tne prizes of five dollars each for best written material and best art work will be awarded from the material submitted.
Work from new writers, and the contributors of other years, is especially solicited, since the staff to begin the year is so very small that it would be imposing too large a task on the men to ask them to write the major portion of the book. There are many open positions on the staff, and those who make a good start the first month will be so much farther ahead of the others.
PHYSICAL TRAINING EXAMS TO BE HELD SOON
All first year men are required to undergo a physical and medical examination, along with a swimming test, before entering the compulsory gym class. The former may be taken in the Physical Education Building opposite the gymnasium, while the swimming tests will be conducted in the natatorium at the rear of the Main Building.
Only those participating in the fol
lowing sports will be exempt from this required work, and only as long as they participate: Freshman varsity football, track,. basketball, and baseball. Those taking part in Interhall football, track, basketball, and baseball will also be exempt.
The Physical Education Department is already planning classes in boxing, wrestling, gymnasium activities, beginners’ and advanced swimming, and life saving. These swimming classes are open to upperclassmen and Freshmen alike. The life saving period is intended for those who wish to become more proficient., and to enable them to obtain Junior Life Saving awards.
3,051 STUDENTS ENROLL
' FOR SCHOOL YEAR
The total enrollment of students for the fall term of the school year numbered 3,051 on Septembei- 20, according to Reverend Father DeWulf, C.S.C., Director of Studies. This enrollment number is greater than that of any previous year, and this number would have been considerably larger had the accommodations for more applicants been available.
Again the College of Arts and Letters surpasses the number enrolled in any other college of the University, by having a total of 1,271. The numbers registered according to the individual classes are as follows: Freshmen, 430; Sophomores, 324; Juniors, 286; Seniors, 196; Graduate Students, 26; and Special Students, 9. Total 1,271.
College of Commerce: Freshmen, 270; Sophomores, 253; Juniors, 178; Seniors, 167; and Special Students, 4. Total 872.	'
College of Engineering: Freshmen, 182; Sophomores, 97; Juniors, 91; Seniors, 73; Special Students, 2. Total 445.
College of Science: Freshmen, 110; Sophomores, 77; Juniors, 61; Seniors, 45; Graduate Students, 21; Special Students, 6. Total 320.
College of Law: First year men, 51; Second year men, 42; Third year men, 49; Special Students, 1. otal, 143.
NOTICE!
Announcement is made that the notebooks for the courses in Marketing 13, and Exporting, (spring semester of this year) can now be obtained at Dean McCarthy’s office, Room 126, Sorin Hall.

42
The Notre Dame Schola
s
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD ANNUAL ELECTION
John Chevigny, prominent campus personality, and a member of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights
Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C.
of Columbus since his first year at the University, was elected to the highest office that the local council could honor one of its members w i t h, w hen he was chosen Grand
Knight, Wednesday evening, Sep
tember 25, during the first meeting of the year, held in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall. This office is the culmination of a series of office holdings in Council 1477, for since his initiation into the order he has held
divers positions of rank.
Grand Knight Chevigny’s' first official act in the capacity of Grand Knight was the appointment of the Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., the renowned campus humorist, to the position of Chaplain, to succeed the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who was forced to resign his post because of his pressing duties in connection with the Ave Maria, of which he is
the Editor.
Nominations and elections for the remaining offices of the Council were held after the election of the Grand Knight; and the following men were elected:
Joseph Scales, Deputy Grand Knight; Francis Ready, Chancellor; Bourke Motsett, Recording Secretary; Thomas Cunningham, Advocate; Thomas Kenneally, Treasurer; John Cannon, Warden; Vincent Ponic, Outside Guard; James Connors and Joseph Hughes, Inside Guards; and Professor Louis Buckley, and Ray Hoyer, Trustees.
It was then announced that the
installation of these new officers would formally take place at the regular bi-monthly meeting of the Council, which is to be held next Monday evening in the Council Chambers, Walsh Hall.
WORK ON 1930 “DOME” STARTED
According to the Editor-in-chief, Robert L. Pendergast, work on the Dome is under way and, from present
indication, the 1930 edition promises to surpass those of past years. The art work by Jahn & Ollier of Chicago is of the best and will be equal to that found in the more expensive books throughout the country. Many new features will appear in the Dome this year which will be both pleasing and interesting to the students. Russells of Chicago have again been retained as the official photographers and hope this year to surpass even the efficient service rendered by them during the past eight years.
The photographer will, be on the campus next week and will begin taking senior pictures immediately. Further notice concerning this will be on the bulletin boards. Class officers, club officials, etc. will also take notice of the above announcement.
This year, as in the preceding years, a prize of five dollars will be offered for the best snapshots of campus life and N. D. activities. Freshmen and Sophomores interested in working on the editorial staff of the Dome come to Room 101, Corby Hall.
ENGINEERS TO HOLD PUBLIC INITIATION
The Engineers’ Club will hold its annual initiation next Wednesday evening at 8:00 p. m. in the gym. Approximately 250 Freshmen will be warmly welcomed into the ranks of their fellow engineers at that time.
Departing from the usual policy of the Club, the officers of the organization have this year decided to admit the general public, as spectators, to the initiation. Inasmuch as this will be one of the most entertaining events of the pre-football season, a large crowd is expected. Following the initiation, i-efreshments will be served to those present.
ROCHESTER CLUB TO MEET MONDAY
The Rochester Club will hold its first meeting of the year in the Law Building, Monday night, September 30, at 7:30. All members are urged to be present and the new men in school who live within a radius of 40 miles of Rochester are invited.
It is imperative that all members be present because there is much important business to be discussed that will be of interest to every member of the club.
LAW SCHOOL PROFESSOR
SERVES AS ASSISTANT
PROSECUTOR
During this past summer season Dr. Clarence E. Manion, professor of constitutional law at the University, acted as special assistant prosecutor to Ray T. Miller (’14), former Notre Dame football star, who is now county prosecutor in Cleveland, Ohio.
Dr. Clarence E. Manion Professor of Laiv
Manion’s appointment was one of the many important innovations the prosecutor has made since his election to that office. It is said that former prosecutors made a joke of power of appointment for they often selected big league ball players and prize fighters for that office, not that they did much work, but the money “helped to tide them over.”
In the case of Dr. Manion, however, it was quite different. He is a recognized authority on constitutional law and in the words of Miller he has “one of the keenest legal minds in the United States.” Thus, it was a wise move that prompted Miller to secure the assistance of such an able man. That Miller realized the advantage of having such aid may be seen in the confidence he placed in Dr. Manion. Among his many assignments were the preparation of Supreme Court briefs in the case of former Councilman Thomas W. Fleming, who is under sentence for bribery, and also in the case of Michael Shinkman, recently granted a new trial by Court of Appeal in his second degree murder case. These are only two of the many important briefs that were assigned to Dr. Manion.
At the beginning of classes this fall Dr. Manion returned to the University to continue his work in the Law School.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
43
Cotillion Plans and Committees Announced
Announcement of plans for the Cotillion, the formal dance of the Sophomore class, was made this week by James K. Collins, president of the
James K. Collins
class. Time and place for the affair have been definitely selected and committees, which were completed Wednesday, are working now on tickets, music, and programs.
John C. Litch-
er, of Fond du Lac, Wis., a student in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named by Collins as general chairman of the Cotillion committees. The choice of Friday, Oct. 25, and the Palais Royale ballroon concluded the plans of the committees for this week.
Posters announcing the dance, with its full title, will be displayed on the campus early next week and ticket sales will begin at this time. As in former years, the tickets will be handled by several men in each of the sophomore halls—Lyons, Morrissey, St. Edward’s, Walsh and Sophomore, as well as Off-Campus. The attendant publicity will be taken care of by a special committee.
As the first formal class dance in the lives of the second-year men, the Cotillion has long been a colorful mark in Notre Dame’s social history. Usually it is held late in October, with a varsity football game as an added attraction for the guests who
S. A. C. TO INSTALL RADIOGRIDGRAPH
Play-by-play descriptions of all the Notre Dame games this season will be brought to the students every Saturday via the radio and gridgraph. These will be set up in the gymnasium. The radio set will have two amplifying units through which it will be possible to hear the cheering and the referee, in addition to the description of the game. This is an improvement over last year and should do much to make the game seem realistic to those students who are not able to attend.
When it is impossible for the radio
come from St. Mary’s, Chicago, South Bend and elsewhere to attend. This year, since the varsity football team plays no home games, arrangements are being made to reserve a special section for the Sophomores and their guests at the Grid-graph Saturday afternoon for the play-by-play account of the Carnegie Tech game at Pittsburgh. This will be followed by the scheduled game between the Notre Dame “B” team and the Wisconsin “B” team on Cartier field.
Rivalling in splendor the Prom and the Ball of later date, the Cotillion is always a gay event. The plans of Collins, Litcher and then- men indicate a Cotillion week-end of unusual gaiety.
General Chairman: John C. Litcher. RECEPTION: Franeis Oelerich, Chairman; Robert O’Connell, Vincent Cavanaugh. William Byrne, Walter- Terry, John Connolly, Alex Wilson, Paul Dailey, Bernard Keeney, Richard Mahoney.
TICKET: John Ryan, Chairman; Charles Bauman, John Collins, John Senger, James Gleason, Maurice Murray. Frank Treiweiler. Robei-t Gorman. Clayton Duerr. Joseph Laughlan, John Crowe.
DECORATION: Frank Conboy, Chairman: William Murray, Joseph Kennedy, Timothy Sullivan, Joseph Lopker.
PUBLICITY: Neil Hurley, John Kiener, Co-Chairmen; Myron Crawford, Neil Rau, Joseph Petritz, Joel Ostrander, Paul Hallinan.
FLOOR: John Totten, Chairman: Frank Miller, John Werner, William Harrington, Jack Cooper, Ronald Armour, Louis Odessa.
MUSIC: Rowland McNamee. Chairman; Henry Tholen, Albert Captor. Oliver Powers, James Carmody, Robert Brenner. Frank Burke, William A. Stewert.
INVITATION: Budd Dyniewicz, Chairman ; Philip Dunleavy, Andrew McGuan, Charles Hitzelberger, Maurice Griffin, Marchmount Schwartz.
ARRANGEMENTS: Frank Reilly, Joseph McCabe, Co-Chairmen; John Kramer, Frank Donalty. Edward Rhadigan, Francis Dillman.
PROGRAM: Bernard Heitz. Chairman; Thomas Mahaffey, Russell Torrell. Leonard Donohue, John Hamilton, Edward O’Mahoney.
ENTERTAINMENT:	Herbert Georgio,
Chairman; Herbert Anderson, James Dubbs, Jack Geddis, Florence McCarthy, Thomas Finnigan, Francis Madden.
to pick up the details of the game these will be obtained through the Western Union direct line service from the playing field. On account of the weakness of the radio station at Indianapolis, the Notre Dame-Indiana game will come in this way. In the event of a World Series game on the twelfth of October, the Navy game will also come by wire.
In addition to hearing the description of the game it will be possible to see each play on the gridgraph together' with the penalties and .the other details. This together with the radio account should do much to make up for the lack of home games.
S. A. C. INAUGURATES “ORGANIZATION WEEK”
The Student Activities Council has announced a new feature on its program for the coming year. This will consist of a movement for a closer organization of the campus clubs. The week of September 30 has been set aside as “Organization Week” and during its seven days the S. A. C. will co-operate with the different clubs and societies of the University in a drive to bring about stronger organization and a closer contact with the school. During this time all state and city clubs are asked to hold their initial meeting and launch their programs for the current school year. The executive officers of the various organizations have been requested to make preparations for meetings to be held in the course of the week.
The reasons for such a policy are quite evident. In years past, many campus clubs have passed through long stages of inactivity, much of which could be traced to improper and sluggish methods of organization. It is the purpose of the S. A. C. to prevent such a condition from pre-• vailing this year! It is not the intention of the Student Activities Council to interfere in any way with the functions or business of the clubs, but rather to encourage their organization with a view to stimulating greater interest in them, on the part of both their members and prospective members. The Freshmen, it is hoped, will manifest the interest which the clubs deserve and take an active part in their functions.
The S. A. C. hopes to rouse more local interest and activity in the city and state organizations. There are unlimited potentialities in many clubs which have not been developed. The Council wishes to encourage them to increase their membership and widen the circle of influence which they may command in the respective’ localities which they represent. The movement for greater activity on the part- of campus organizations was begun last year when the S. A. C. prepared constitutions and presented one to each club, for its adoption. “Organization Week” is a further step in the general plan which was conceived at that time.
It is earnestly hoped that all chairmen, secretaries, and other executive officers of the various clubs will give their whole-hearted co-operation to the Student Activities Council in (Turn to Page 57)
44
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUbS
FORT WAYNE CLUB
The Fort Wayne Club held several gatherings during the summer months, the first being a dance which was given at the Elk’s Country Club, June 22. More than hundred and fifty couples attended and were entertained by Fred Stomper’s Orchestra.
On August 26, the Alumni Association of the Fort Wayne-Notre Dame Club gave a banquet in honor of James J. Roy winner of the National Oratorical Contest. Judge John W. Eggeman, president of the Alumni, acted as toast master. The Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. former president of Notre Dame was the principal speaker of the evening, giving an interesting talk on the History of Speech. Mr. Roy gave “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea,” the oration which won for him the honor- of National Oratorical Champion.
The final gathering of the Club was held Sept. 7, when another dance was given at the Elk’s Club, this time Bill Brice’s Orchestra furnishing the music.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The Metropolitan Club arranged two gatherings in New York during the summer, the first being a Summer Party at the Pavilion Royal on Long Island, June 21. Abe Lyman and his Californians furnished the music for the fifty couples who attended and the Victory March was a big feature in the program as played by Lyman.
A luncheon was held August 29, at the Inter-Fraternity Club and approximately fifty members attended.
A special train was chartered for the purpose of returning the students to school this fall.
All students of the University living within a radius of forty miles of New York City are invited to attend the opening meeting of the Club which will be held as soon as arrangements are completed. Freshmen are formally welcome.
The officers for this year are: Warren S. Fogel, President; Frank G. Dunn, Vice-president; Frank H. Mosher, treasurer; and Coleman O’Shaughnessy, secretary.
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB
Announcement will be made in the next issue of the Scholastic as to the time of meeting for the Louisiana-Mississippi Club. All Freshmen and members are requested to be present at the meeting. The officers for this year are: Jolin Dubisson, president; Jack Nowery, vice-president; Joe McKeown, secretary; and Marchmont Schwartz, treasurer.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
Plans are being made by the officers of the Pittsburgh Club to hold the first meeting of the scholastic year immediately following the upper classmen’s mission. The time of meeting will be announced later. All members and students who live in or near Pittsburgh are urged to be present.
The annual summer dance given by the Pittsburgh Club was held in July at the “willows.” Bracey Brown and his recording orchestra played to more than four hundred members, alumni, and friends of the club.
WRANGLER’S CLUB
The Wrangler’s Club, an organization sponsoring forensic activities at Notre Dame, gave its first banquet of the year at the Hotel LaSalle on Thursday evening, Sept. 19. The dinner was in the form of a political convention. Mr. Keegan, as temporary chairman, presented the gavel to Mr. Stanton who gave the keynote address. All members were called upon to speak. They were: Walsh, Keegan, Stanton, Noll, Phelan, Ryan, Hurley, Wilson, Houlihan, Connors, and Baer.
Walter Stanton outlined the main activities for the present year, including: Freshmen interhall debating, the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest, and the Wrangler’s Club debates with other universities.
Frank Noll delivered a message from Joseph McNamara who was President last year. Every Wrangler was urged to try out for the Varsity Debating Team. It was decided that the plan of weekly meetings and monthly banquets would be continued. Interhall debating will be started within a short time.
PRESS CLUB
The initial meeting of the Press Club was held in the Journalism Room of the Library, Tuesday, Sept. 24, at 12:30. The meeting was devoted mostly to business matters.
It was announced by the President of the Club, John Motz, that arrangements had been partially made with prominent newspaper men and writers for special lectures during the year. Prof. Charles Phillips, of the English Department, will deliver the first address in the Lay Faculty dining hall next Tuesday night at 7:30. All lectures given before the journalism students during the year will be under the auspices of the Press Club.
The Club anticipates turning out a local edition of one of the South Bend papers as well as an edition of the Scholastic.
Plans are to be taken up in the near future concerning banquets for the year and also a picnic which will be held sometime before Easter.
In the closing minutes of the meeting, the President pointed out that the benefit to be derived from belonging to the Press Club is to afford opportunity for- taking advantage of others’ experiences. The primary purpose of the organization, as stated, “is to bring constant contact with men who are actually engaged in the newspapers.”
SCRIBBLER’S CLUB
At a meeting of the Scribbler’s Club last Monday night in the Law Building, plans for the coming season were discussed.
Richard Sullivan read a short essay in vindication of Robert Louis Stevenson, which was followed by some acute critical comment.
Jack Dempsey concluded the program with a shoi-t story entitled, “Boomerang.”	' .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PTOW
The march is on, but thus far it is a very straggling parade indeed. It will, however, gain rapidly in strength until soon all the schools, colleges, and universities of the country will have joined the ranks of the great parade of colleges marching in annual review before the American public. Nevertheless, we repeat that the parade is as yet very straggling, and from our particular point of view this is a most unfortunate state of affairs. We have this page to fill and little to fill it with, yet filled it must be. We suggest that the S. A. C. petition the University officials to hereinafter postpone the opening of school until such a date as will insure the author of this culumn against the handicap of having to commence operations before adequate material is available. How convenient everything would be if all the schools were to open simultaneously! But what can’t be helped can’t be helped, so we are told. Moreover, we have the assurance of our esteemed rector that there must always be a few goats connected with most things, so we shall consider ourselves as such and try to grin about it. Anyway, it could be worse, as the Irishman said when he chopped off a couple of fingers.
Hear ye, friends! An athlete there is, it seems, who is capable of more serious efforts. At St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnnesota, they have a young man of basketball and baseball prowess who now poses as assistant to the dean of men. His name is Art Egge—probably a pretty good egg too. St. Olaf, by the way, has on its faculty none other than 0. E. Rolvaag, the internationally famous author of those two very splendid novels, “Giants in the Earth” and “Peder Victorious.” He now has a third book ready for. publication and we are certain that every reader of good books will eagerly await its appearance.
There are more ways than one of doing anything, even of selling subscriptions, for at least the University of Kansas it seems to be the “Force of Salesman” that is selling subscriptions to the Daily Kansan. Now sometimes there is nothing so effective as force in attaining an end, and we salute the master minds who concocted and executed this brilliant coup. No doubt the college periodicals of the country, as well as other struggling publications, will heartily endorse this new system so well calculated to increase circulation. And incidentally, since force appears to be the prime requisite for the success of the plan, splendid opportunity should be afforded the various colleges to furnish their he-men athletes with the nice jobs they sometimes seek (so we hear).
The freshmen of Northeastern University, Boston, evince a rather great interest in the finer arts, probably to the chagrin of the head coach. A total of 115 are interested in dramatics, while 107 and 106 are interested in music and publications, respectively. Basketball also attracts 106, football lures 96, and baseball claims 84. Other interests received a scattering of votes; one man, for instance, seems
to be “keen about golf,” while another makes the daring confession that he “started to take lessons on a trumpet.”
In the University Daily Kansan we detect a column entitled, “Plain Tales from the Hill.” No doubt these tales are quite all right and everything, but we are sure they are nothing to compare with the tales freely exchanged in any of the recreational gatherings (reatty a nice way of putting it) so famous in certain rooms around the campus. The tales passed in these conclaves are neither plain nor from the hill; they are well embellished and are from everywhere.
We find in the Colorado School of Mines Magazine a page of “Alumni Letters.” Further on there appears a column of “Engagements and Weddings,” and, still later, there are “More Alumni Letters.” We wonder if these last letters are not considerably different in tone as a result of the harrowing experience midway. Moreover, the column of “Engagements and Weddings” is immediately preceded by one with the heading “Births.” This time we wonder if it would not be just a bit more appropriate and becoming to have the order of these two columns reversed.
Someone who appears to be the Sage of St. Olaf conducts a column called “Leaves of Grass” in the school paper, “The Manitou Mesenger.” This Sage makes some three dozen statements which “many Americans believe.” Here are a few of the things we seem to believe:
“That critics never read the books that they review.” Rather true of certain literature classes we have known.
“That the book clubs always pick the best book that appear during any given month.” Ah, but soon the book clubs will outnumber the books, and then who is going to play Santa Claus?
“That anyone could write a novel—if only he wanted to.” After reading certain of our novels we are extremely thankful that everyone doesn’t want to write one.
“That it is impossible for a man to write a good novel unless he works a great deal harder than he would work were he to try to dig drainage ditches.” We quite agree if it is as hard proportionately to write a novel as it is to write the few lines on this page.
“That the highest form of intellectual life in any small towrn is centered in the women’s studv clubs.” Now vou tell a good one.
“That had Milton not been blind he could have written Paradise Lost with much less difficulty.” Really a quite daring and brilliant deduction, no ?
“That any college student who tries to write is not satisfied unless the result of his efforts borders very closely on the pornographic’ Even Webster’s Collegiate didn’t help us any on that one, so we leave it up to you.
46
The Notre Dame Scholastic
An open letter to Monsieur Sans Gene:
Dear Sans Gene:
While we admire your courage in double daring us to print your exquisite verse we think that perhaps you lack the courage of your own convictions. If you will be so kind as to obtain permission to recite your verse from the stage of Washington Hall immediately preceding the showing of the first motion picture this year we will print the thing in the following issue of The Wink. We have a much better parody on Kipling’s “Boots,” which begins
“Pumps, pumps, pumps, pumps, crepitating up and down again,” and we still think you should sign yourself “Sans Souci.”	—T. TALBOT TABLOID.
—0—
Believe it or not, little kiddies, this actually happened in the cafe one night.
Percy: I caught hay fever today in French.
Bysshe: How unusual. How does one sneeze in French? Shay: Bend over. With a nasal accent, of course.
—o—
And speaking of G. D. S. reminds us that revenge was sweet and all the rides WE had to take after the Hartford Dance last Christmas were more than made up for by the ride we saw G. D. S. take in the caf last Friday night. Sic transit publicity.
—o—
When Freshmen view with alarm the prevalence of rain in Indiana they should have pity on the parched throats of Fort Huachuca. It is said that there only one inch of rain falls and that in the front yard of a lady named Ruth who catches the rain in a stirrup so her husband can have one shave during the winter season. But what has this to do with the price of epaulets? . ■
—o—
NEWS NOTES
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 26, 1929.—In the annual Scrib-bler^Philosophy game played on table 83, West Side, the Scribblers lost the game when a fine syllogism thrown by Roger Hearn was downed just before the bell by A. J. F. of the Philosophy .team who discovered and called an undistributed middle.
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 23, 1929.—Tom Cunningham, popular young New York manager, is wondering whether he will be retained by the Scribblers’ baseball team or whether the Spectators will make a higher bid for his offices. The unofficial report is that Cunningham was told, “Yes and no. But on the other hand, could you and would you for a nice red apple?” T-s-k. T-s-k. Think of that.
—o—
And we had to follow suit with another pun. We were tacking up an extension cord or two when one of the honorable Spectators said, “I can offer plenty of advice. “And,” says I, “you ought to be able to seeing that you Spectators are up on current topics.” Really the whole thing sounded more like Brother Cyprian’s “Line” than like us.
RENUNCIATION
(For Gabriel and Theresc)
Like an orchid, fragile, lavender, In the windoiv-garden of a florist Seemed to you the pleasures of the world.
You knew the ardent press of your tvarm lips Would wilt,—the touch of covetous fingers soon Would bruise those purpled petals; yet you stood, Your face tight-pressed against the glass, your heart Longing for loveliness, aching for beauty.
Bravely you turned and walked atvay—alone.
—o—
Through the kindess of Brother Mark, our column has been filled with left-over contribs of last year. This is not the true Notre Dame spirit at all, at all. Shame on you for twenty minutes, meanie.
And then again, there is the story of the young senior who for three years had heard that it is “our football” team, so one day he walked up to K. K. and says, “Mr. Rockne, this is our football team and now I want to play a little while.”
After talking with Prospero Image, who has been visiting these parts, we have come to the conclusion that we are going to present a new universal proposition for use in the sophomore philosophy classes. “All teachers of English are not all good judges of poetry.”	—donn d.
—o—
TO PRIDE
Vain Pride, thou art a priggish sense
That lures the will of man from reason;
And soothes the wounds life’s treason
Has so smartly dealt, with recompense
That speaks of fine distain. O, Vaunted Love,
Thou art but a cloak of shoddy cloth
Which man about him shrouds when forth
He fares among his kind, and seeks to hold above
The scrutiny of eager eyes the countless darts
That prick his sensibilities. Thou art cruel
And tinged with egotism, and from all humanity
Thou exacts a silent suffrance known in untold hearts, Borne best if borne alone. O, Pride Eeternal, the fuel Which thou consumes in us, alas is merely vanity!
—Attache.
—o—
And the organ player at school wrote Mary and John that “playing the organ is not the pipe it’s cracked up to be.
■	—o—
Well, well, only one contribution this week. We shall sit around until Monday waiting for material, and if we don’t get it you’ll just have to continue reading my own airy persiflage.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
47
EDITORS PAGE
Ti l I AHIX <1 H U M /
We came back to school this Fall to find that death had taken a severe toll during the sum. mer. None of us thought that we were saying goodbye for the last time to Father Albertson when we left school in June. Neither did we suspect that death would rob us of Larry Dean, or Orlando Pucci. But Father Albertson passed quietly away, Larry Dean died a happy death, and
(	Orlando Pucci’s name was engraved in the roster of heroes.
t	All three deaths .leave us with a sense of irreparable loss. Father Albertson typified to per-
fection the ideal confessor and friend. Thousands of students remember him solely for his kindness p and friendliness. Many others chose him for a regular confessor because his understanding heart made easy for them the task of baring their souls in the confessional. No more will his cheery voice be heard rousing the boys in Badin to morning prayer. No more can the boys swap cigars
■ with him and hold open forum in his room.
■	Larry Dean’s passing hit us just as hard. When we saw him last (that was in June), it seemed
impossible that death could claim him in a few short months. The fellows who knew him remembered his clean, wholesome spirit. His devotion to the Blessed Virgin was no secret. We used to call her his best friend. He was so genuinely in close communion with her that we used to marvel
' and even faintly envy him. And he was a good friend to have. During the day he always found time to visit the Grotto for a tryst with the Blessed Mother. He was • a faithful swain and we t admired him for it. He left a mark that we all aim for, but which few of us attain. Because he kept faith with the Blessed Virgin she kept faith with him. In his last hours, she must have been with him for his death was a beautiful release from earthly bondage.
!	The other deaths this summer were just as sad. Orlando Pucci died a hero, striving vainly
।	to save another from a horrible death by drowning. He, too, left a large circle of sorrowing
'	friends. Because he faced death fearlessly to save another, we are sure he is enjoying the
> Beatific Vision.	•
4	Two others who were to matriculate as Freshmen this Fall were taken from us. Andrew J.
Hanhauser, of Philadelphia, was the unfortunate victim of drowning. The other, Jack Spalding, of Denver, died peacefully after a bitter fight against the ravages of pneumonia. He was a daily communicant, an ardent Catholic, and a model young man. His life was as beautiful as his death.
s	He, too, enjoyed a close communion with God. He looked forward to his entrance to Notre Dame. He would have gone far had he been spared.	•
It has been hard to write these lines. The memory of these men is still too vivid, too clinging, to allow for more rational eulogy. “Eternal rest grant them, oh Lord I”
v	—T. V. M.
i
I
48
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LITERARY
Double Plays
Walter M. Langford
D,” began Owner Skelly, “you better hop the afternoon Flyer for Texas.” “What’s there?” 1 asked.
“A coupla young ball-players.”
“Who they with?”
“The Macauley Eagles, down in the Rio Grande League.”
“Uh. Who are they?”
“Named Murphy and Loughlin. Play second and short.” “Sounds like a couple of Irishers to me.”
“Well, look ’em over, Ed. If they’re ripe, get ’em.”
“What’s your highest figure?”
“I said if they’re ripe—get ’em.”
Murphy and Loughlin were the best pair I had seen for years. Lord, how they could team around that second sack! They had speed to burn, and plenty of brains too. The way they pulled off double plays was something to write home about, and at the plate they both hit hard and often. They might just as well have been twins, for they looked alike and did everything alike and were always together.
After three days I bought the two of them at a price sure to stagger Skelley. But he said to get them if they were ripe, and they were all of that and more.
“Kirke, it’s the best buy you’ll ever make,” Pat Arnold assured me after the deal was all fixed up. Pat was manager of the Macauley bunch.
“It better' be,” I replied, thinking of all the dough I paid.
“Get this earful,” he went on. “They’re going to show the old-timers in the big show plenty of tricks.”
“That’s wrhat I got them for.”
“Man, when they start working double plays up there half the fans will be pop-eyed with surprise. And the other half will go cross-eyed trying to keep up ■with the ball when they start cutting loose.”
“Yeh,” 1 put in, “they ought to get by all right.”
“Listen, Ed, remember that famous old double play combination of the Cubs—Tinker to Evers to Chance?”
“Sure. Who don’t?”
“Well, I bet that in two or three years the Murphy to Loughlin to somebody combination will be just as famous ”
“That’s saying considerable, Pat.”
“Sure, but wait and see what I tell you. They’re great boys and I know they’ve got it in them. Look at them there now.”
I didn’t need to look; for I knew how good they were or else I wouldn’t have spent so much cash for them.
“The young fools nearly lost the championship for us last year, though,” Arnold continued.
“How come?” Tins almost worried me.
“Come on over here to the bench and I’ll tell you about it,” he said.
Seated comfortably in the shade of the bench, Arnold
brought his pipe into use and began his story of Murphy and Loughlin.
Year before last Macauley took the pennant but lost to Brandsville of the other league for the South Texas title. It was Bud Dustin beat us really,.‘cause he set us down three times in the seven games. Maybe you’ve seen him pitch. He’s making good with the White Sox this year.	'
Well, the boys should have got Sunday School prizes for good behaviour that year. Geez, you never saw such harmony as we had. Everybody was a buddy to everybody else. It was so darned peaceful it wasn’t right or natural. I knew it couldn’t last.	}
Sure enough, right after- the season ended Dick Broder and Ted Moore had a scrap over a dame or something, so the big boss sold the two Broder brothers to the Dor-ingen Birds That left a hole about a mile wide around second. Bill was a mighty neat shortstop, even if he wasn’t quite up to Murph’s class.
The big boss got busy and in no time he’d bought Murphy • and Loughlin. Paid considerable for them too, when you ' stop to think that they was awful young and unknown. Soon as he got them signed up everything looked jake and I quit worrying, for I had seen both of them play and I knew they would come through for us all right.
But the season hadn’t more than started when I found out I had a coupla grandstand boys. They were damn good and all that but both of them was just crazy about showing off to the crowd. That would have been all right ■with me too, but in a few weeks .'they got jealous and started cutting each other’s throat. It got so we couldn’t hardly win a game with Murph and Loughlin both in there. They played for themselves and ruined the whole team. They just wouldn’t pull together. I fined one and then the other, but it wasn’t no use. As soon as one of them got off something good in a game the other forgot all about the team and tried to pull off something just as fancy.
Cripes, it was awful. There they was, the two niftiest little infielders in the league and yet heading us right for the cellar. By the middle of June we was running about two hops ahead of the cellar champs and getting worse • • all the time. Finally one day I collared the big boss and says, “Clark, either we do something about them two damn fool Irishmen or else I quit cold. ” And he comes back, ’ “I’m darned if I know what to do, Pat. I leave it all up to you. Fire ’em or anything, I don’t care. Anything to give us a winner.” .
Well, I went into a huddle with myself and come out with an idea. Maybe it wasn’t the best in the world, but I knew it couldn’t make things worse than they already was. So I scouted around and picked up a young fellow who had played nearly everywhere in the infield. He • wasn’t bad, so I started him at short one week and kept Murphy on the^bench. Then the next week I put him at
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
49
second and benched Loughlin. And I’m doggoned if it didn’t work!
In no time the old team come out of the kinks and started winning right along. All the old teamwork and spirit returned as soon as this kid Hoban got in there. Not that he was so hot or anything, but he was a peppery little cuss and worked mighty smooth with either Murph or Loughlin. This seemed to make the whole bunch perk up and do better. Anyway, before anybody noticed it we climbed right up into the first division.
But those stuck-up young fools kept on hating each other more all the time. Each of them thought he was twice as good as the other and ought to play all the time. And the fact was that neither had any advantage. Loughlin was hitting a little better but Murph was a bit steadier in the field and was faster on the bases.
For all that, neither was doing as good as Ted Moore. Kirke, you couldn’t go wrong on that boy at any price. He’s only two years out of college but he’s already the neatest first baseman I’ve seen for a long stretch. And he sure busts the old apple. Hasn’t finished under .400 either year. Lots of scouts been trying to get him, but the price is up there plenty high. Anyway, he’s been out more than a month with an infected foot. But he is sure there, all right, and will be in the big show soon enough.
Well, by September we was scrapping for the top and the whole team was getting its fighting spirit up. Everybody but Murph and Loughlin was, anyway. They would do fine when playing one at a time alongside of Hoban, but off the field they still hated each other. I guess it was really worse now, ’cause the darn fools had both got in love with the- same girl.
She was named Sally O’Brien and was sure a wow. She had a twin sistei' called Patsy that was absolutely her double in every way, but of course Murph and Loughlin had to go after the same one. She strung both of them along and wouldn’t say which she liked best, but I suspected it was Johnny—that’s Murph, you know. She was out to every game and cheered whichever one was playing.
We was a game and a half ahead of the Doringen Birds when they come here for the last series of the season. All we had to do was split the four games to keep our lead, while they had to win three to nose us out.
They got two of the first three, because the Broder brothers was playing like fools, trying to show, the big boss what an ape he was for selling them- off. Moore , won our game for us, so you can see it was pretty much of a grudge fight besides being the deciding series of the year.	”
Well, that last game was a thriller if I ever saw one. A pair of healthy clouts by the Broder brothers put them two runs up on us at the start, and at the opening of the seventh inning them two runs was still all that had been scored. In that inning we got a run on doubles by both Moore and Murph—he was playing that day. In the eighth we tied it up and then nobody counted till the thirteenth, when they got one on a walk, a sacrifice, and an error. In our half Moore and Murph singled with two gone. Then I sent in Loughlin to pinch hit and I’m damned if he didn’t break up the game with a long swat over center.
After that we took on Brandsville again for the South Texas title. Bud Dustin stopped us cold in the first game and they took it, 4 to 0. Our boys broke loose in the next two battles and ran away with them. Things were looking fine, but in the first inning of the fourth game little Hoban got spiked so bad there wasn’t a ghost of
a show for him to play any more in the series. I think they was laying for him from the start, for it wasn’t no secret that Murph and Loughlin couldn’t play together.
Nobody knew worse’n I did what it meant when they carried Hoban off. I didn’t have another sub infielder worth using in this series, so I’d have to let the two Irishmen play together. And that was about the same as giving the series away, for they just naturally hated each other too bad to work together.
I turned to Murph and said kind of low and tense like, “Maybe you better go out to shortstop ” He trotted out and I sank back in a corner with a feeling that we were sunk.
Sure enough, our boys cracked as soon as Murph went in and Brandsville evened up the series. I didn’t mind -losing that game so much, ’cause I half expected Dustin to* beat us anyway. But it didn’t help my disposition none to think about what would probably happen to us in the rest of the games.
The next day it was like we expected. We didn’t have no pep and they run off from us, 8—1. That night we took the train back to Macauley for the last two games of the series, only I had an idea it wouldn’t take but one more .game for them to whip us. If we did win 'the next one they would have Dustin to throw at us in the last one, and he had only beat us five times in a row, counting that series of the year before. ■
I almost hated to come out to the park the next day, but pretty quick after I did my eyes begin to pop out. In practice Murph and Loughlin got going and showed what a pair of great infielders can look like when they really want to. Man, did they look good! You’d think they had been working together all their life and was the best buddies in the world. And they acted like they was, too.
When they come back to the bench I remarked kinda casually that they looked pretty nice, but they didn’t say nothing. The rest of the team hadn’t missed the change that had come over our Irishmen and we had that game in the bag before the umps ever hollered, “Play ball!” The score wTas 9 to 2 and I went home perfectly happy for the first time in months.
The last game was a tight one because Dustin was right, but we couldn’t get beat with Murph and Loughlin and Moore all off on- a spree. We took them over by 3—1 and in the showers after it was all over those blooming Irishmen was running up and down hugging and shouting and dancing.
Well, I’ll tell you, for several days I didn’t know what had got into them two kids and made them change like that all of a sudden. I guess I was too excited over winning the championship to worry much about it. But then one day a young reporter friend of mine come dashing and slipped me the dope.
He had heard that the O’Brien sisters was going to get married, so he got busy and gathered all the details.
It seemed that one night a week or two before the end of the season Tommy—that’s Loughlin—went to see Sally, but she was out with Johnny. So he and Patsy beat it off somewhere together. From then on he was all for Patsy and Murph and Sally all to himself. Of course this didn’t keep them from going on hating each other, but it didn’t make their hate any worse than before, either. And then I guess the girls kind of brought them together little by little.
But when they both got in that fourth game of the series they still wanted to outplay each other. And on the day when we got back to Macauley for the last two
50
The Notre
Dame Scholastic
games them O’Brien girls got hold of their Irishmen and told them things.
Old man O’Brien had died about three years before and the girls both worked in an office to keep going. The old man left them a couple of thousand which they had put away till sometime when they would need it pretty bad. And now they told Murph and Loughlin that they had bet the whole two grand on Macauley, which meant we had to win or they would be sunk. Well, this finally brought them blooming Irishmen to their senses, and they got together and agreed they would have to do their darnedest to win them last two games. Then the girls kinda hinted that they might even be persuaded to marry a certain couple of ball-players, if the ball-players were champions. I guess Murph and Tommy couldn’t think of nothing that would be a better bargain than that, so they just went out and cleaned up that Brandsville gang. And the best of it was that the girls hadn’t really bet the two thousand on Macauley at all.
A day or two after the reporter fellow give me all this dope I was stopped right in the middle of the street by the O’Brien sisters. They asked if I wouldn’t come to
the church that afternoon and help hand off a couple of my players to them.
“Oh,” says I, “so it’s going to be one of these double play weddings, is it? And you want I should put on my swallow-tail and come over there to give away a couple of my players, do you? Well, I ain’t never give away no ball-players yet and I probably won’t never give any more, but I guess 1 can afford to do it this time.”
So Johnny and Tommy married the O’Brien girls and became the best friends in the world. Ever since then they have been playing the greatest ball I’ve seen in my time. And they’ll do just as good for old Skelly’s team up there in the big show too. Just wait and see what I tell you, Kirke.
I looked out to the infield where Murphy and Loughlin were finishing their practice. They sure looked good all right, and I knew they would make the grade in the majors. But then I thought of all the dough I had paid for them.
“Yeh,” I said to Arnold, “and you sure spoke a gobful when you said you wouldn’t ever give away any more ball-players.”

If I Were Einstein....
Victor J. Martzel
(The result of meanderings and peregrinations of an immature mind into the vast desert of philosophy.)
SINCE the very first stages of adolescence, it has always been my secret ambition to startle the world with some new invention, theory or discovery. In just what field I was to make my researches and bring down this thunderbolt, which would revolutionize the world, had ever been a problem up to the advent of Einstein, Durant and various other philosophers and scientists. Seeing the success which these men enjoyed through the expression of their thoughts, which, may I mention in passing, were not always sincere, I arrived at the momentous decision that my efforts would be centered about philosophy.
Starting out, as it were from a veritable “tabula rasa," my next difficulty lay in the choice of some subject as a basis for my work. Here failure stared me blankly in the face until one night a lecturer unknowingly supplied me with that for which I had been searching. In the course of the lecture, the phrase, “history repeats itself” was referred to several times. It occurred to me that since phenomena must have a cause there must be some reason or some logical explanation for this “Cycle of Events.” Starting from here, then, I began my extensive search into science, philosophy and the folds of my mind.
Again failure confronted me, until one day I chanced upon a dissertation on light rays and the manner in which they are constantly leaving the earth. The solution to the problem, which had been bothering me for years, suddenly burst upon me. I solved it in this manner.
Space, we know, is the receptacle of all matter, including the universe, in which we live and of which we are a part. Space, contrary to the opinion of many, is limited, because if it were limitless it must be one of two things, namely, indefinite or infinite. It cannot be infinite because there can be but one Infinite, namely God. It cannot be indefinite because indefiniteness postulates parts and space is sometimes defined as the absence of parts; in ergo space
must be limited. The light waves which are constantly leaving the earth travel through space, but if there is a limit to space they must sometime stop. On reaching the limits of space they are reflected back toward the earth, but by this time they are minus the intervention of the sun and in consequence I have no authority fox- calling them light waves any longer. I found it necessary to here coin a label for them and I could find no more appropriate term than “History Waves.” These “History Waves” on their return to the earth, are to the minds of men as Hertzian waves are to a radio. In consequence, they are manifested in action and hence the explanation of the “Cycle of Events.”
Being a confirmed Scholastic, my next difficulty lay in the explanation of the intervention of the Divine into this phenomena. This was comparatively simple, for I saw that it was necessary for someone to first start this cycle, for a thing cannot go from potentiality to actuality by itself. I thus established God in His position as Prime Mover and it was through Him that I find an explanation for new inventions, which are constantly cropping up, for God is continually instigating new cycles in order to establish some sort of progress in mankind. It is for this reason that events reoccur in slightly different manner, because of the changed condition of the earth from the time when they first left it.
My work is completed. I wish for nothing more to conquer; the speed of time has made it .impossible for me to work out the only solution that is left, namely that of determining what length of time elapses during this long journey of light waves and history waves through space, but I leave this vale of tears with the thought that I have left a chance for some ambitious youth, who, I hope, will possess the same secret ambition that I possessed.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
51
A Price of Authorship
Jack Dempsey
AN author’s life is not all royalties and rejection slips. Some authors lecture. Lecturing to a men’s club is hard enough, but my sympathy pours forth to the celebrity who talks before a women’s organization. A lecture that impressed this upon me was one I witnessed Meredith Nicholson suffer down at Princeton, Indiana. It was held under- the auspices of the D. A. R.
The regent rapped for order.
“We will open the meeting by singing the Star Spangled Banner.” She read the words off a card. The others hummed, or whistled the melody, or guessed at the words. Mr. Nicholson knew better; he attempted nothing.
“I knew you would all like to hear a few words from the president of the newly organized local S. A. R.; so I invited him to say a few words this evening. Mr. Joe Hebblewhite needs no introduction.”
„	A woman behind me said to the one on her left: “This is
.he first time Joe has had his dress suit out of the moth-•	balls since he married Sally Dumphry twenty-seven years
ago.”
jp	“He must have put on a lot of weight since then,”
f	observed the woman on the left. “See how it fits him, how
the shirt bulges, and how red his face is from his tight collar.”
“And he must have tied his tie himself,” stage-whispered her companion.
“Ladies,” began the guest, “it gives me great pleasure T	to greet you as the representative of your brother organiza-
tion . . . .”
“Next on the program is Zachary I. Pierce, our own eminent author, who will introduce the speaker of the evening.”
’	“Now, as one author to another,” began Mr.
Pierce ....
“What did he ever write?” asked the woman on the left. “He made the Line back when B. L. T. ran it. The Line, you know, is a column in the Chicago Tribune. When Zip—that is his pseudonym—made it the squib was reprinted in the County Post. Ever since then Zip has been sending something in every day, but has never had another accepted. Every Indiana town has its author; and Zip is ours.”
4	“. . . . and it gives me great pleasure to introduce my
|	contemporary, Mr. Meredith Nicholson, whose latest book
?	we have enjoyed is The Cavalry in Tennessee.”
I	“I’ve memorized reams and reams of poetry, but I never
j	could learn the words to the Star Spangled Banner”
।	jovially began Mr. Nicholson.
“He has sort of a pleasing personality,” whispered the woman on the right.
“Yes,” answered the woman on the left. “But his tux '	doesn’t fit much better than Mr. Hebblewhite’s.”
“And look at the way he is standing there, his left hand resting heavily on the table, his right in his trouser pocket, his left leg back and his right forward,” finished her companion.
“Have you ever read any of his stuff?’ ’asked the woman on the left.
“Yes. I tried to read his Gentleman From Indiana, but didn’t like it so haven’t tried any of his others. Do you like his work?”
“No. I began his Hoosier Schoolmaster, but couldn’t read past the first chapter, so I’ve stuck to Liberty and other good magazines.”
“Why, look at Joe Hebblewhite. He’s asleep.”
“I do hope he doesn’t snore.”
“My, isn’t our regent the proud woman this evening!” exclaimed the woman on the right. “I’ll bet a cookie she had that dress made especially for this occasion.”
“It looks like she made it herself.”
“The material does look familiar. Why, she just made over that old brown silk dress of hers! Just as if we wouldn’t recognize it.”
“She certainly likes to have a lot of men around her, doesn’t she?” observed the woman on the left.
“She never could land a man; but I guess she hasn’t given up hope.”	'
They paused a moment for breath. I needed it.
Then the woman on the right said, “If my butcher doesn’t stop weighing his thumb with my order I’m going to quit him.”
“I notice that mine does the same thing. And many’s the time I’ve called him on it, too.”
“Don’t you think John Gilbert and Greta Garbo are just wonderful ?”
“Yes. And I think Charlie Chaplin is a perfect clown. Did you see him in The Circus?”
“What? The lecture can’t be over so soon!”
“Even if I am from out of town,” remarked the woman on the left, “I don’t think he talked as long as he is being paid for—whatever that is.”
The regent gushed over to Mr. Nicholson and took his hand in both of hers. Then she turned to the audience and said, “If any of you wish to meet Mr. Nicholson, I shall introduce you to him as soon as we can get off the stage.”
“Would you like to meet him?” asked the woman on the right of her companion.
“Yes. It will be something to write home about, if nothing else.”
I got in line behind the two women who sat behind me. I knew very little more about what Mr. Nicholson talked than they, but my motive for meeting him was a little above theirs.
Mr. Nicholson ran the gauntlet as heroically as a missionary running between two rows of Iroquois. I don’t believe I’d care to lecture to women’s clubs. Two of the reasons are the two women who sat behind me.
“How do you do, Mr. Nicholson,” gushed the woman who had sat on the right. “I enjoyed your lecture so much! And I liked your Chivalry in Tennessee very much, too. ‘Stonewall’ is quite a character.”
“And I liked your Gentleman From Indiana almost as well,” chimed her companion.
“Thank you,” said Meredith Nicholson.


52	TheNotreDameScholastic
I’m Not Clever
Shawmus O’Shaughnessy
I HAVE almost arrived at the conclusion that for anyone who lacks those general qualities which go to make up what the world has termed cleverness, the ordinary hurdles in the race of life are too high to leap over. Not to have been given a modicum of wit and humor when nature was distributing these free, yet valuable, gifts is, to speak conservatively, a raw deal. The average statistician will state that for the average year, the average importance of the average wisecrack to the other forms of speech is something like the following ratio:
One Packard : one Ford : moonshine : water.
And heres’ the gist of my difficulty—I am not clever.
In order to demonstrate my handicap, I need only to refer to any of numerous occasions when I am arraigned before my superiors. Be the charge ever so petty, I hem and haw and swallow and finally mutter, “No, I certainly won’t do it again,” even if perhaps I am wholly innocent of the offense. Oh, how I envy him who can, by fluent speech and cunning artifice, convince his accusers that such special mitigating circumstances prevail in his case that almost shames them for evei* questioning him I
But consider my case in relation to the opposite sex. I am not bashful in the presence of girls; on the contrary, I am woefully natural, and this is, from my point of view, nothing short of tragedy. Let a man be anything but his usual self when among them and he will create an impression fully as good as that of Sir Galahad; but if he allows com-
mon sense to rule his conduct and he fails to fall in love (or to so make believe) with every girl he meets, he is promptly blacklisted, much in the same fashion as used by the D. A. R. against harmless politicians. The prime essential for being popular- among modern girls is, in the vernacular, a good “line.” And now, alas! I realize too late that the development of such an open sesame to feminine popularity has been sadly neglected. I shall never cease to rue the times that I turned a deaf ear to the shouting magazine advertisements for “Pelmanism” and Dr. Eliot’s five-foot shelf.
Thus I find life indeed a coldly unsympathetic proposition. I can never be the life of a party. Girls do not remember me for any vaudeville at social gatherings; rather they say, “It seems I have seen you somewhere—perhaps at Church, or was it at a lecture?” Other fellows usurp the center of the excitement by their sleight-of-hand tricks, burlesque songs, and ultra-modern wisecracks. That is when I wish I could jump up and start an Indian war dance, but something always restrains me. And I suppose that if I do not learn soon to play golf and bridge, my case will resolve itself into a social steeplechase, with myself in the role of the Prince of Wales.
I am firmly convinced that when the Lord gave out race horses for the derby of life, something was.overlooked. It seems that not only did I fail to get a quirt, saddle, or bridle, but that I was given a plug horse. But I shall not give up. I have implicit faith in Aesop’s great fable, “The Hare and the Tortoise.”
mi—m
^rail ^Monuments '
Ten cigarettes an hour’s passage marking, Cold dregs within a cup of cloissone, The echo of your laughter gleaming dully,— Brief mockery of you toho were so gay.
A shred of smoke drifts sloivly toward the ceiling;
The short gasp of the dying candle flame.
Are these the monuments built to your laughter:	*
A wisp of smoke—a softly ivhispered name?
—J. D. R.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Of Professors
In the Style of Francis Bacon Brother Emil, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS are useful for a student unto three ends; namely, that of instructing, that of inspiring, and that of pleasing. They serve for instructing in that they bring unto the student’s mind knowledge of the philosophy of Plato, of the physics of Aristotle, of the poems of Homer, of the dramas of Aeschylus, and sundry other matters that pertain unto truth and beauty. Professors serve for inspii-ing in that the student, seeing his master so learned in the classics and so far excelling in all the arts and sciences, yearneth in like manner so to become, even as a thirsting stag longeth to drink of the waters of a cool spring. Again professors serve for- pleasing; but let not this pleasure be mistaken for that delight of which vulgar folk partake in the witnessing of a cinema play or of riding on a summer's day in a gasoline carriage, for the enjoyment of which a student partakes at the professor’s lecture is of the purest and sweetest kind, namely that of the intellect, of all forms of pleasure the highest, for that none of the baser faculties of man contribute thereunto.
Now the attitude of students toward professors varies; wherefore crafty students condemn professors; simple students admire them; and wise students use them. The crafty student condemneth the professor, for, his thoughts ever-
dwelling upon pleasure of ladies’ company or that to be found in games of sport, he careth not for the wise observations of the learned; further, the crafty student contem-neth the instruction and inspiration of the professor, taking note only of those words of dogma which he intends to preserve against the day of examining. The simple student admires his professor, for to him none seemeth more wise, and he heeds and practises his master’s counsels, even as the ancients were wont to do with regard to the advices of the Delphic oracle. But this course of the simple student is not too eagerly to be followed, for not every word the professor utrereth is sweet and savory, and indeed some of his words should, as Lord Bacon saith of books, be tasted merely, and others ought to be spit out as soon as tasted. Your wise student beareth this ever in mind, and he it is who useth the professor unto the highest good; even as the human body taketh in much food and seemeth to know, by Nature’s art, what to assimilate unto the forming of a sound body and what'to cast forth as unprofitable and base, so the wise student knoweth how to separate the chaff from the wheat of his professor’s discourses, thus attaining his end of instruction, inspiration, and pleasure.
Meditation
Into quiet pools of meditation	.
Loiv I sink and there refresh me of the day’s
Hot and sweaty, all-too-tedious labors;
And of constant worry’s irritable rays.
In the shade of solitude I strip me
Of infectious care and spirit-quelling fear;
Of all troubles’ burdensome ligation, And immerse in thought's unruffled mere.
There I float in soothing meditation-;
Float, and drift, and dream in peaceful hilling thought.	1
And my dreams, like ripples all around me, Start, and grow, and very softly spread to naught.
Ted J. Ryan
I.......................................  HlHinilllllHtlllHlllllllUlllllilH»l»lltllllllHUIIIIIIIIIIIIII»IIIIIIIIHmillllHltlllHHIIIt»llllinilHlllllllllllltlllUllllllllllllllimnilillllltlllllllllllllilllllllllHlllllllHll»I
8®
54
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ill

v

Afterthoughts
What genius of the many arts man knows, By all his power can unfold
A work of half so fine a mould -
As a ivild rose?
What canny alchemist, though working till he Swoons in mental vagrancy, Can match the dainty fragrancy
Of a garden lily ?
What architect, by all that he can learn Of planning lofty spires, can trace The pattern in the fragile lace
Of a woodland fern?
What fine embroidery of dame or miss— Rich tapestry or silk brocade, Can match the blending of the shade
Of a purple iris?
Good God, what creature here below could be More fitting than a single flower, To show the beauty and the power
That rests in Thee!
4
—Brother Loyola, C.S.C.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
55
Notre Dame to Have Well-Balanced Team
Rockne’s Wish for Fleet Backfield Fulfilled
Rarin’ to go are they, and in one short week we’II see how close our appraisal of the team measures up to the actuality.
From what one hears Notre Dame is to have a wonderful team. We’ll wager that it’s true.
Notre Dame has always had wonderful teams. Every season has been successful, in one way or another. The
Frank Carideo
indomitable spirit present in all of the squads for many years back simply couldn’t be downed.
The Ramblers of this year will not only have an abundance of that spirit but also the ability to defeat the best team that any Page, Thistlewaite, Hanley, Ingram, or Jones is able to run out on the gridiron.
This much was understood after the Irish cavorted around Cartier Field behind closed gates last Saturday afternoon practically unhindered, although there was a picked eleven of freshmen to combat them.
Elder to Star
The final score was reputed to be in the neighborhood of 96 to 0. We
would rather not be too particular about that. We are more interested in the news that Jack Elder has overcome his very serious case of “fumbling.” This means that Knute Rockne’s speed machine and we feel the greater part of the ball-carrying buWqn is practically fulfilled.
Elder will be the largest cog in Rocknes’ speed machine and we feel quite sure that it will be a very popular sport model before the season is well underway.
Besides Elder, there is Marty Brill, who played very spectacular ball while at Penn U. two years ago. Brill is not only a powerful offensive man but an excellent blocker. Very few runners, if once through the line, will get by him.
Mullins is Heavy Plunger
Moon Mullins, a heavy plunger, will begin where Freddy Collins left off last year. Whenever a yard or two was needed for first down, Collins could usually be counted upon to gain it. With his graduation, the subsequent replacement by Mullins is valuable indeed. Mullins will furnish every thrill that Collins ever did. And more.
But the guiding hand on the gridiron will be none other than Frank Carideo’s. To round out the quartet of backfield men, perhaps a better leader could not be found. Carideo will not only lead the attack but may be looked upon to do the greater part of the kicking.
Carideo capably proved his ability last season as a field general; his coolness and keen judgement stood out above all else.
Colrick and Vesie at. Ends
The real “bone crushers” will be the forward wall. The end positions are to be filled by Johnny Colrick and Manny Vezie.
Colrick is a master in every department of end play. His ability to elude the rival linemen and step by the secondary defense to take a pass out
of the air was proved in last year’s game with Navy.
Vezie is one of the steadiest men Rockne can depend on. ’ He is able to . box opposing tackles almost at will, and block the enemy’s passes. There will not be very many substantial gains around the right end of the line this year. Very few in fact.
The tackles will be Frank Leahy and Ted Twomey, two rugged boys, due to be poison for the opposing
John Colrick
backs. Hard tacklers and the ability to stand up under hard punishment places them in the select position.
Captain Laic at Guard
At left guard again, of course, will be Captain Johnny Law. John will be playing his last year of competition but it will be undoubtedly remembered as his most successful. His penetrating defensive play will be remarkable and he will develop into one of the nation’s finest forwards. He will be assisted by Jack Cannon, at right guard.
Cannon is a perfect match for Law; they are both of the fast-charging type and deadly in tackling the opposing ball-carriers.
Of course, an accurate passer and very aggressive man must be at the
56
The Notre Dame Scholastic
pivot position and Tim Moynihan has again been looked upon as the logical player for that place.
With this lineup, Notre Dame will be colorful, game, dangerous, versatile in all her contests. That is what the majority of the fans expect to see. The Notre Dame team of this season will fulfill every expectation of her admirers.
MILLS AND JONES IN CHARGE OF FROSH
Preliminary cutting of the fall crop of 170 candidates for the freshmen football term took place when Coach-
Thomas E. Mills
Tommy Mills pared the present squad to 100 this week. A second call for capable material will be issued soon, he announced today.
Due to the fact that there was insufficient equipment for the large number of freshmen who turned out, the squad had to be cut to give the other aspirants a chance.
Mills and his assistants, Bill Jones, varsity guard on the 1928 squad, are in charge of teaching the new material the queei* quirks of the game and of whipping green besweatered lads into shape to furnish tough opposition for Rockne’s first string teams.
New System Installed
It has been the custom to teach the freshmen the plays of Notre Dame’s opponents and pit them against the varsity. This season, however, the
yearlings will be given only two offences, devoting most of their time to solving the moves of the varsity men and gaining valuable experience for the years ahead.
The freshmen squad will be maintained until the end of the season. Mills expressed regret that many players had not yet been given- an opportunity to display their wares, but another call will probably be issued next Monday and those who have not been equipped will be asked to report. The cut will be after a fair and thorough trial has been given to all candidates, it was said.
RESERVES TO PLAY TEN GAME SCHEDULE
A ten game schedule, which is perhaps the heaviest and strongest ever lined up for the reserve football teams, was announced by Knute Rockne, director of athletics, today.
The schedule consists of eight games away from home and two to be played at Cartier Field. Included on the lineup are four Big Ten schools, Wisconsin, Northwestern, Minnesota, and Iowa.
The first game will be with Western State Normal, to be played at Kalamazoo on October 12. This will be at the same time when Notre Dame is playing Navy in Baltimore.
The following week a double-header foi* the “B” teams is planned; Ferris Institute and Michigan State Normal being the opponents. The games will be played at Big Rapids, and Ypsilanti, Michigan, respectively. (
Three Games on October 26
One of the most gruelling weekends will be that-of October 26, when Valparaiso is met at Valparaiso, Northwestern at Evanston, and Wisconsin here at Cartier Field. The Wisconsin game will undoubtedly be well attended as it will be the first to be played on the home field this season. Besides, the varsity team will be in Pittsburgh, where they will be battling Carnegie Tech.
The longest journey for the reserves will be that to Minnesota, where they meet the Gophers on November 2. The week following, Iowa comes to Cartier Field to close the home season, while another reserve team will be sent to Muncie to play Ball Teachers College.
A trip to Kalamazoo to meet Kalamazoo College on November 23, the
“B” TEAM SCHEDULE 1929
Oct. 12—Western State Normal at Kalamazoo.
Oct. 19—Ferris Institute at Big Rapids; Michigan State Normal at Ypsilanti.
Oct. 26—Valparaiso at Valparaiso; Wisconsin at Notre Dame; Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 2—Minnesota at Minneapolis.
Nov. 9—Ball Teachers College at Muncie; Iowa at Notre Dame.
Nov. 23—Kalamazoo at Kalamazoo.
date of the Northwestern game in Chicago, will cap one of the most extensive schedules ever produced for the Notre Dame reserve teams.
Derive Valuable Experience
During the past few years the idea of having the reserve players formed into squads to meet similar other groups from various colleges has spread rapidly.
Notre Dame had a number of games lined up last year and although only several were victories, those participating in the contests received valuable experience which prepared them for a berth on the regular varsity squad this season.
With such an extensive schedule it is hoped that every player on the squad will be given an opportunity to enter into competition in several of the reserve games.
ATHLETIC MANAGERS PREPARE FOR BIG SEASON Organization of the student athletic managers for the year is rapidly be-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
57


ing perfected, according to John J. Quinn, football manager. The number of trips to be made by the football squad, together with the three games on Soldier’s Field, Chicago, will necessitate a large and competent staff of managers.
The staff under Quinn is headed by Bernard Conroy as Associate Manager. Senior managers of other sports include Con Carey, basketball; A. W. Kegowicz, track; Frank O’Marah, associate track; Robert Hellrung, baseball, and Eugene Kennedy, minor sports.
'Seven Junior Managers
Undergraduate managers are on a competitive basis. This year’s junior managers are: Thomas Ashe, Robert C. Balfe, Daniel D. Halpin, Jack Hughes, Joseph Lauerman, Bourke Motsett, and John F. Saunders. The sophomore managers number ten and the freshman group totals fifty-five.
The managerial staff every year is one of the most highly efficient organizations on the campus and renders a valuable service to each of the athletic teams.
S. A. C. INAUGURATES “ORGANIZATION WEEK”
(Continued from Page 43)
putting this week over. All club members are asked to get in touch with those eligible for membership in their organizations, and accompany the new prospects to their first meeting.
A new plan for the management of class finances is to be instituted whereby the class officers will be responsible for the collection of dues from the students they represent. Since the Freshmen are as yet unorganized, a committee of S. A.- C. men will attend to their finances until they have elected officers. The lack of unity which always prevails in a class which has just begun its college course, coupled with the need for adequate reserve funds, has rendered such a policy expedient. The necessity for an adequate sinking fund to be carried over from year to year by a class, has been conclusively demon-• strated in previous years.
The presidents of the three upperclasses have been requested to begin the collection of dues. The assessments will be one dollar for Juniors and Seniors and fifty cents for Sophomores and Freshmen. It is the wish of the S. A. C. that these matters be arranged during the ensuing “Organization Week.”
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
>	ill । ,	“
1 »	«
(Charter > erase
L	Suits *40, *45, *50 Overcoats	1
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	;
Charter 1 erase
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
:	The character of the suits and	:
■	overcoats tailored by Charter House	5
will earn your most sincere liking.	"
? MAX ADLER	!
S	Inc.	v
£ On the Corner Michigan and Washington S
BEAUTIFUL ALAMAC CARDS MAKE SELLING A PLEASURE
Selling ALAMAC Christmas Greeting Cards is an easy, pleasant way for college men to make money. This distinguished line opens every desirable door. Intelligent selling plan, sample book of personal cards and dollar box assortment start you off to Christmas profits.
FREE SAMPLES.
The Alamac Compant s^NewTork
Dept. CW—6 Varick Street—New York
58
The Notre Dame Scholastic
KNOX OUTLINES JUNIOR CLASS PLANS
At a meeting of the Junior Class which was held Friday noon in the south room of the Library plans for
Vernon J. Knox
Junior Class President
the coming year were d i s cussed. Several important ann c u n c e -ments were made by Vernon J. Knox, class p r esident. It was decided at the m e eting that in order to bol
s t e r the class treasury dues of one dollar a year would be assessed each member of the Junior class. Committees were appointed to take charge of the collection in each of the various halls and off-campus. The committees are as follows:
John F. Saunders, Chairman.
Walsh Hall — Nordoff Hoffman, Robert Balfe, Vincent Busch.
Badin Hall—Robert Massey, Al ~ Seymour, James P. Doyle.
Morrissey Hall—Charles Geherin, Edward B. Madden, Bob Neydon.
Lyons Hall—Edward B. Ryan, Ray Mannix.
Corby Hall—Fred Rahaim, Thomas A. Cannon.
St. Edward’s Hall — Joseph J. Hughes, James Slattery.
Off-Campus—Rolland Poulin, Jack Shively, Tom McGough, Chester Francowiak, William C. Brown.
FRESHMEN HEAR UPPER CLASS LEADERS AT CONVOCATION
At an enthusiastic and well- attended convocation held in the East hall of the refectory last Monday noon, the student leaders of the University gave advice to the Freshmen along the subject of Notre Dame’s traditions and spirit. They pointed out to the ‘newcomers’ what rules are to be observed as part of Notre Dame tradition and how the new men are to conduct themselves in a manner reflecting credit to themselves and .to the college.
Interhall Activities Now Under Way
On Sunday, September 22, a meeting conducted by Coach Rockne was held in the North Room of the library. He addressed the men who intend to participate in interhall football during the coming season, and urged those who were unavailable for the varsity to continue their endeavors in the interhall league. This was the initial step taken in the interests of local sport for the coming year. Another move for stimu- ' lating intramural activities was a dinner given by Mr. Rockne on Tuesday, September 24, in the Faculty Dining Room.
The men who have been appointed to coach the various halls were
❖		—		—V
	INTERHALL FOOTBALL			
	Varsity	Assistant	Prefect in	
Hall	Coach	Coach	Charge	
Freshman	Brill	Brown	Fr. Holderith	
Sophomore	Koken	Reaume	Fr. Margraf	
Carroll	Kaplan	O’Connell and Artwan	Bro. Maurilius	
Brownson	Yarr	Jachym	Bro. Aidan	
Walsh	Savoldi	Flynn and Hahan	Fr. Jas. Ryan	
Corby	O’Brien	Maroni	Fr. O’Malley	
Badin	F. Leahy	Walsh, O’Connor	Fr. Connerton	
Howard	Carideo	Janisheski	Fr. Murch	
Morrissey	Griffin	Eaton	Fr. Haggerty	
Lyons	Conley	Dilley	Fr. John Ryan	
St. Edwards	Kosky	Carr and	Fr. Clancy	
■		Harris -		
Off-Campus A		Lyons	Fitzgerald	Fr. Heiser	
The Chairman of the S. A. C. opened the meeting by extending a welcome to the Freshmen and then proceeded to acquaint his hearers with. the purpose of ‘Hello Week’ and stated the various events scheduled as part of ‘Hello Week’ activities. On Friday night, the ‘Howdy Hop’ will be held at the Palais Roy-ale Ball Room. He then introduced Ray Riordan, President of the Senior Class who welcomed the Freshmen in the name of that class.
Next, Johnny Law, Captain of the 1929 Varsity was introduced to the audience. He spoke of the experiences he had while a Freshman and of the impressions which he formed at that time; He recalled the manifestation of school spirit four years ago when the team returned after its
present. Those among the guests who spoke were Rev. Michael Mulcaire, vice-president of the University; Rev. Raymond Murch, Coach George Keogan, Dean Masterson, and Professor Scannell, assistant to Mr. Masterson. Each speaker promised to give his sincere support in making the year a successful one.
A somewhat different plan has been devised than that followed in previous years. Coach Keogan is to be in charge of interhall football, while Father Murch is chairman of the interhall board of directors which is composed of the rectors of the twelve halls. The board is to have supervision over all affairs.
defeat by Army. Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, Prefect of Discipline, concluded the program with a short talk on the duty of student to his school.
MOLLER WINS ST. JOSEPH VALLEY GOLF TITLE
Larry Moller, a senior in the School of Architecture at the University, copped the St. Joseph Valley open golf championship from a large field of experienced golfers last Saturday.
Moller has received vast recognition for his championship competition and is reputed to be one of the leading Middle Western golfers.
In previous meet's Molelr was victorious in the Mississippi Valley open tournament and a runner-up in the Western open held this summer.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
59
NEW CROSS-COUNTRY COURSE
A new cross-country course for the University harriers has been laid out recently, and all of the 1929 home meets will be run over it. Over the new paths, the start is made from the gymnasium, then St. Joseph’s Lake is
circled once and St. Mary’s Lake twice After the second lap around St. Mary’s Lake, the runners leave by the cinder path in the rear of Lyons Hall, cross the Dore road, and enter the new University Golf Course at the main entrance. Following the fence, a complete circle of the golf course is made, exit being made by means of the same gate through
which one enters. Turning east, the Dore road is followed to Car-tier Field and the finish line.
The exact location of the finish line has not been determined, as the course has not yet been accurately measured. Coach John P. Nicholson said, however, that the new route, when definitely laid out, would measure five miles.
School Work Flies
*To prove Parker Duofold is a pen of lifelong perfection, we offer to make good any defect, provided complete pen is sent by the owner direct to the factory with l'c for return postage and insurance.
J
High altitudes and high snarks are both old friend*' to IP. Howard Ehsssann, honor student at New York University. Between classes he pilots his own Curtiss plane—and in class pilots a Parker Duofold Pen.
Through Cloudless Skies
via Parker Pressureless Touch
4,
24% Greater Ink Capacity Than Average, and * Guaranteed Forever Against All Defects
Here’s a pen that makes school work twice as easy—enables you to do quicker, better work because it clears the track for thinking.
It writes without pressure from the fingers—you merely guide it—the pen itself does all the writing for you. No effort. No strain. No fatigue.
And none of the nagging interruptions caused by ordinary pens. Always a gliding, smooth response—always a steady ink flow, no matter how fast you write.
Parker Duofold offers you also Non-Breakable barrels of lustrous Permanite, in five jewel-like colors or Modeme Black and Pearl—28% lighter than rubber—holding 24% more ink than average, size for size.
Try Parker Pressureless Touch at a nearby pen counter. See for yourself why Parker Duofold, by actual census count, led all other makes in popularity at 55 colleges and 13 technical schools.
Pens, $5 to $10, according [to size and finish. Pencils to match the pens, $3 to $5.	■
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY,Janesville, Wisconsin Offices and Subsidiaries: New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, Dallas, San Francisco; Toronto, Canada; London, England
Duofold
60	The Notre Dame
| CAMPUS TOGS |
| A Regular He-Man Outfit can be E |	found at this store at	1
1	Prices That Please.	|
•	*♦*	E
I CORDUROY PANTS—	I
E	Cream, Brown, Tan, Red—	E
|	$2.50 to $3.85	=
I DOUBLE SOLED Army Field	[
i	Shoes, with riveted vamps, $3.85 e
I SWEATERS—	I
E	Coat Style, Curl or V neck—	E
|	$2.85 and up =
I	GILBRO’S	I
i FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE i
|	330 South Michigan Street	E
□
Scholastic
I SODAS	PAPERS 1
I	UNIVERSITY	I
|	CAFETERIA	|
e	—and—	e
| Soda Grill j
i	DAILY SPECIALS	j
I	Open 6:30 A.M.to 9:40 P.M.	i
1 CIGARS	CIGARETTES 1
RI ■niiaiBHitttitaiiiiiiisttiaiiniiaaaaitiiiaiiiiiiiiiaiiiiaaaiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiliiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiQ
TIE prepared now to enjoy all the big games this season. You can’t expect to support your cheering section lustily or enjoy watching that forward pass if you’re getting drenched.
Sawyer’s “Frog Brand” Students’ Slickers have become staple and universally adopted everywhere. The new Sawyer “Forain” Zephyrweight garments are now accepted as the very latest in wet weather protection for college men and women. Every garment tailored in the most advanced styles and rendered absolutely waterproof and windproof by the famous Sawyer process. The Sawyer’s “Forain” street coat weighs only 20 ounces. See these new live models and staple “Frog Brand” slickers at the nearest dealers.
Qet Yours—TODAY
H. M. SAWYER & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE	MASSACHUSETTS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
61
CROSS-COUNTRY SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
Coach John P. Nicholson, this week announced the 1929 cross-country schedule, which is as follows:
October 19—Wisconsin, at home.
October 26—Michigan State, at Lansing.
November 2—Marquette (pending).
November 9—Indiana, at Bloomington.
November 16—Central Intercollegiate Conference, at Lansing.
The schedule this year is one of the
most difficult ever attempted by Notre Dame, and Coach Nicholson has a man-sized job ahead of him in whipping together a formidable team from the inexperienced squad with which he has to work.
Michigan State, unbeaten in the last three years, has practically its entire team back again this year and is looking forward to another banner year. Indiana and Wisconsin, both of whom defeated Notre Dame by one point margins in 1928, will again be represented by strong teams. Mar
quette met defeat at the bands of our Blue and Gold harriers last year and is out for revenge this season. They are reputed to have a well-balanced squad.
Joe Quigley and Jim Biggins, the only veterans, have just about returned to their old time form, and Howery and Wilson, of last year’s freshman team, have been turning in repeatedly good time in their daily workouts. The rest of the squad is green, but should develop by the time the season gets under way.
At NOTRE DAME
Sheaffer leads in actual sales!
In this day of lectures and themes the student’s pen must be swift and dependable to catch a usable picture o£ class instruction. That’s why Sheaffer’s school standing is so interesting; Sheaffer leads in sales to students* at 73 of the 119 foremost American universities and colleges. One reason for such dominance is the permanence and reliability of Sheaffer’s Lifetime0. So durable, so well built is this smooth-writing pen that we guarantee it without hesitation for your entire life . . . against everything except loss! Write with Sheaffer’s Balanced Lifetime0, note its smartly molded lines and the balanced “feel” that ^ives it flashing performance and makes lon& themes short. You’ll understand its leadership and ^ive it your vote, too!
★Recently a disinterested organization surveyed the college pen market and proved Sheaffer the undisputed sales leader. Documents covering this investigation are available to anyone.
At better stores everywhere
All fountain pens are guaranteed, against defects, but Sheaffer's Lifetime0 is guaranteed, unconditionally for your life,.and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green and black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $7.50 and $8.25. Black and pearl De Luxe, $10.00; Ladies’, $8.50 and $9.50. Pencils, $5.00. Others lower.
SHEAFFER’S
PENSPENCILS-DESK SETS-SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • Fort Madison,Iowa, U.S.A.
»B«r. U. S. Pat. OS.
© W. A. S. P. CO.. 1928
SAFETY SKRIP, Successortoink,50c. Refills, 3 for 25c. Practically non-Ireakable.can 'tspilL Carry it to classes!
62
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Say Does He Sing!
He don’t do nothin’ else, you ain’t heard nothin’ yet. It’s the old Jolson pep and personality, with SEVEN new song hits to charm the heart! The greatest entertainer in the world is back to thrill you!
AL JOLSON
The World’s
Greatest Entertainer
in
“SAY IT
WITH
SONGS”
A Warner Bros.
VITAPHONE
ALL-TALKING PICTURE
with
Davey Lee
and
MARIAN NIXON
His new picture has all of the heart throbs, all the joy in the world! And the little boy ~ “Sonny Boy” plays with him again . . . Mammy!
ONE
ENTIRE WEEK
SATURDAY
thru,
FRIDAY
CKUMX
A Publix Theatre
I THE SOUTH BEND I
I CLEARING HOUSE BANKS I
Citizens National Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
|	Michigan and Jefferson	i
(■Imiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiniiiiiiimmmritiiiiiiiiimiiii.mum.............iniiiiniiiniitiirSl
f«1niiiiHiiiiiinuniiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiuiiiutiininuininiiiiimiiiiiiiiinnnii.  0
|	WALK-OVER
I Shoe Store
I	PRESENTS THE NEWEST IN
I	SHOE STYLES WITH PERI	FECT ASSURANCE OF
j	QUALITY AND COMFORT.
I	♦♦ ♦
I	Walk Over styles
|	are authentic!
|	Walk Over prices
I	are moderate!
I	♦♦♦
I	STORE LOCATED AT
I	111 S. MICHIGAN

The Notre Dame Scholastic
63
i
f
♦	SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖
BY H. A. S. JR.	<8»
♦	♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Starting from scratch last Saturday in the 123rd set of games held by New York A. C., Dr. Paul Martin, famous Swiss middle distance runner met defeat at the hands of Herbert Sears, Newark Prep school runner, in the open 1000. However, it is pointed out that the Doctor had only been in training for some three weeks, and had not become thoroughly acclimated as yet. Then, too, Sears had a forty yard handicap. .
fl fl fl
Edward J. Gilgane, president of the United States Referees Association, speaking in the second of a series of lectures at Columbia University, estimated that soccer football was about 700 years old. A form of football was played in Western Europe about the twelfth century, in which twenty-seven men made up a side, and in which there were very few rules, in fact, practically none save to get the ball across the opponent’s goal-line in some way or another. Something like the old interhall games, if the stories we are told are true.
fl fl fl
Harry O’Boyle, one of the finest and fastest fullbacks ever to play for Notre Dame, is now assistant coach at Holy Cross, where early season reports point to an exceptionally strong line, behind which the coaches are trying to build a back-field capable of handling certain aspects of the Rockne attack which O’Boyle is teaching.
fl fl fl
E. S. Barnard, President of the American League, stated last Saturday, that in the future the big league schedules will undoubtedly be shorter as no one cares to see games played which do not mean anything as do the last fifteen or twenty games of this season’s schedule. But one cannot help feeling that the competition offered by - several big football games being played early, as is the case this year, had something to do with the solons of the older game deciding that a shorter season might be better.
fl fl fl ■
Not always is the heroic and the melodramatic reserved to fiction. Johnny Poe, of the Princeton Poe’s, went to his death in a battle of the world war, calling signals as he charged across No Man’s Land.
' fl fl fl
Douglas G. A. Lowe and E. A. Porritt, two of the greatest English runners that ever lived, have recently collaborated on a book called “Athletics,” which purports to give the history of athletics from the earliest times down to today. Lowe, incidentally, is the only man to ever win the same Olympic track event in two Olympics. He won the 800 meter run in both the 1924 and 1928 games. Porritt was a New Zealander, and one of the very best sprinters Great Britain ever produced.
fl fl fl
Rud Rennie, of the New York Herald Tribune, says that at the coming World series, the well dressed fan will probably wear woolen underwear, an overcoat, and mittens.
fl fl fl
In the same meet in which Dr. Martin was beaten, Frank Masterson, who formerly wore the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame in competition, wove his way through a large field to finish third in the mile from scratch.
PALACE
Talking Pictures and Radio-Keith-Orpheum Vaudeville
SUNDAY—MONDAY —TUESDAY
5 Excellent Acts of
Vaudeville
including
SUN FONG LIN TROUPE The finest Chinese wonder act in vaudeville.
Magicians—Musicians—Dancers —Acrobats.
NIXON & SANS
Assorted Chocolates
MEMORIES OF THE OPERA
Two
Acts.
ON THE TALKING SCREEN
ROD LA ROQUE in “The Delightful Rogue.”
4 DAYS—STARTING WEDNESDAY
A Big Gala Show of Mirth, Melody and Song “The
Affairs of 1929”
20—FOLKS—20
A Big Unit Show with lot's of Real Comedy—Singing and Dancing.
64
The Notre Dame Scholastic
[■jllllCltlSIlllll'tllllllllllllllllilltlllltlttllllllllilHI..
Prof. Charles Phillips
of the English Department
Knute Rockne
Director of Athletics
Two Notre Dame	.	i
men whose articles	£
appear exclusively	=
in	.	1
THE	|
NEWS - TIMES	I
“First in Sports”	1
iinitiHniiiiutttttinitiiiiitntiiitiituiiiiiiitttiitiiiiieiiitiiiiitKiiitiutiiiiiiiiiitiittiiiiuittititiifetiiiiiiiiiiiiMttiiiiimiiuatitiiittiiiiR]

CFEAM AM
PENSPINCIIVSETI
fyeCcnHin^Ccmpaiuj
TOLEDO. OHIO New York Chicago	San Francisco
COLLEGE STYLE... real serviceability, and a price that leaves spending money in the war chest are all combined in this new Conklin Cream and Black pen and pencil. Here is Conklin’s tribute to the undergraduate of modern times. The pen $3.50. The pencil $2.50. Other Conklins in the same price class in ultra-modern color combinations. Conklin Endura pens, service unconditionally ana perpetually guaranteed, $5, $6, $7 and $8. Pencils to match $3.50, $4 and $4.50.
Not obtainable in static stores.
Conklin desk sets in unique and beautiful models $6 and more. Pens - Pencils Leads.

* 11 11 I J1 11 l.l 11 11 H 111 I I * I On Down the Line | ❖ I I 111111111111111 11 l.l I ❖
Mike Gibbons once fought 15 fast rounds at St. Paul ... he received $22.50 as his share . . . next day he turned over $25 for breaking antifight law . . . George Simpson, Ohio State cinder star, is due for a berth on the gridiron squad this year . . . He steadfastly refused last year . . . Hal Rebholz, Wisconsin fullback, was a motorcycle cop all summer . . . Here’s hoping . . . that he is out of tickets when Notre Dame meets him ... A catcher on a girls’ team out west has not erred in 31 games . . . she must have taking ways ... We learn more every day . . . now it’s the news that a well-hit golf ball travels about 80 miles an hour . . . Johnny Dundee weighs 128 pounds when ready for battle . . . During training for contests he has lost more than two tons . . . that’s 4,000 pounds . . . or - the weight of 26 average men . . . Christian Keener Cagle is expected to draw something like 350,000 people this year . . . Babe Ruth drew 328,000 in the world series of 1926 . . . Cagle is now one of the big three in “gate attractions” . . . Dempsey is still the popular idol . . . aggregate turnout for his five important bouts is 500,000 . . . The Notre Dame golf course is said to be the only one in the country that is entirely fenced in ... A stepladder is a necessity for those who slice over the enclosure . . . Entire Southern California football team is to appear in all-talkie football hit for Paramount soon . . . Actor’s Equity peeved . . . proselyting charges filter here and there . . . Investigation shows there are approximately 5,560,000 small vent holes in the entire ceiling ... of east and west dining halls . . . Jack Dempsey is part Scotch, Irish, and Indian . . . Jewish strain also shows in family . . . Three of the Four Horsemen are head coaches of important colleges . . . Temple University has only Russian, football player . . . Doc Mostovay, quarterback, is the name . . . Tommy Loughran was awarded silver belt . . . did most during year for boxing . . . Billy Rockne, ’13, is playing football . . . but at Pembooke School . . . in Kansas City, Mo. . . . Toreadors now ride motorcycles . . . make bullfighting more exciting . . . that in San Sebastian, Spain.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
65
REC. US. PAT. OFF.
ALLIGATOR is one snappy outergarment — and you can slosh around in it all day and never get wet. Turns rain, wind, dust.
Models for Men ana Women, $7.50 to $25
THE ALLIGATOR COMPANY, St. Louis
New! ALLIGATOR STEPPERS
(PaUApp. for)
Protect trouser legs—all colors to match all coats.
$2 and §3.50 a pair Ask to see them
KEEP DRY FROM HEAD TO FOOT
66
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
67 iug|
OCTOBER—
The inauguration of the true Autumn

season
To fully enjoy the crisp mellow days you should wear oiie of our new fall
I suits
to
Fifty -five
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Home of Hart Schaffner and Marx Clothes


68
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Qiiiitiiiitiitliliiiiiitiiiiiiiiittiisiiiiitiiitliiiiiiitiiiiiiliiiiti ..  mm..........  miiuinmiiuuiiiiiiilij
| SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTIONS-—	I
I	Students desirious of having the Scholastic sent to their j
I	parents or friends, send check or money order to the Scholastic I
I	Office, Administration Building? Three dollars per year.	j
-	/	X	'	•	/;'	•	■
The Notre Dame Scholastic
69
'MlllllllllllllllllUllllllllllllllHW
NOTRE DAME
too, prefers Sheaffer’s
You can’t keep Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 performance a secret. In 73 of America’s 119 leading universities and colleges Sheaffer’s swift, easy writing and faultless service have placed Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 first among all fountain pens in sales.* What pen, other than Sheaffer’s Lifetime0, is guaranteed for your entire life . . . against ■ everything except loss? What pen has the smart lines and easy, restful-writing feel of Sheaffer’s Balanced Lifetime0? There’s a reason for Sheaffer leadership. You’ll recognize that the minute you try your Balanced Lifetime0 writing companion! Do it today!
At better stores everywhere
E
SAFETY SKRIP. Successor to ink, 50c. Refills, 3 for 25c. Practically non-breakable, can't spill. Carry it tc classes!
All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green and black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $7.50 and $8.25. Black and pearl De Luxe, $10.00; Ladies’, $8.50 and $9.50.
Pencils, $5.00. Others lower.
SHEAFFER’S
^Z PENS -PENCILSDESK SETSSKRIP ^^^Z
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY « Fort Madison, Iowa, U.S.A.
oRcff. U. S« Fat. Off.
©WZA. S. P. Co. 1929
*Ar ecent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales at 73 of America’s 119 foremost seats of learning. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
| JUGGLER SUBSCRIPTIONS-—	|
|	Students	desirious of having the Juggler sent to their parents	i
I	or friends, send check or money order to the Juggler Office,,	|
1	Administration	Building. Two dollars per year.	|
70
The Notre Dame Scholastic
a merger
we have merged fine woolens with smart tailoring and the stock is now selling at
20^
extra trousers if desired at 5.50
the
following preferred investments—DOBBS HATS at 7-10- and FLORSHEIM SHOES at 10 are also recommended —
adler brothers