Home of HICKEY - FREEMAN Navy Officers9 Uniforms
8 BLOCKS
SOUTH ON
MICHIGAN STREET
Indiana’s Largest
Naval Officers’
Uniform House
SOLE AGENCY
for
DOBBS
Naval Officers’
Caps
Is NOT DOWNTOWN!
/GILBERT’S Naval Tailors, Indiana’s Largest— is located eight blocks South on Michigan Street in South Bend — NOT DOWN TOWN! Everything you need UNDER ONE ROOF — 88 courteous Gilbertarians to serve you.
TAXI FREE!
in South Bend —to Gilbert’s
MODERN GILBERT'S (hue,
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN HOUSE
Sat. Afternoon and Evening
—and Sunday
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
APPOINTED BY THE U. S. NAVY
Get More Quality for Less in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
created by the U. S. Navy
$40
RAINCOATS
with removable All W)ol Linings
$375°
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
TffS MODERN GILBERT'S "fate,
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
Indiana s LARGEST Naval Officers' Uniform House is NOT DOWN TOWN in South Bend.
It is EIGHT BLOCKS South on Michigan Street!
PRODUCED under the supervision of the Navy
Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. And the low prices established by the Navy provide you with the best of all possible value.
REMEMBER! — It is not only the uniform but the Fit that Counts. You can depend on Gilbert's tailors for this expert service.
^he ^Notre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
DAVE CONDON - Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL	EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Marines	Associate Editor, Navy
HAROLD BERLINER Associate Editor, Civilian
EDITORIAL STAFF
AL LESMEZ	-	Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	-	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM REGAN
BILL CARNAHAN ROBERT RIORDAN JIM FENNELLY
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
BY EDWARD H. MADDEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor
Among the many problems facing V-12 students today is the question of further education following the war. Realizing this, Congress is endeavoring to legislate liberal measures to secure college education and training for returning-service men. In addition, mustering out pay will facilitate a man’s entrance into college in a civilian status, tiding him over until he is completely reorientated.
At the present time, according to Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, a committee on postwar problems is planning the correlation of V-12 college records and subsequent peace-time college pursuits. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, is the chairman of this committee. ‘
Although the plans of the organization are in a nebulous state, the following are some of the concrete problems with which it will deal: (1) Will the V-12 record necessarily remain an inflexible part of a college record? (2) Can certain V-12‘ college credits, consistent with the course the ex-service man takes following the war, be retained and non-relevant ones dropped? (3) What will happen to the credits tjiat do not fit into the majors and minors taken by the newly-made civilian student? (4) Establishment of a revised curriculum, meeting new specifications of peace time.
These and other problems of conversion will be arranged, pointing always toward the benefit of the returning veterans. Father O’Donnell and Father Cavanaugh pledge eager cooperation with and full support to the “beloved young men of our country” when they return to Notre Dame.
eep up on Notre Dame News — subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service
$1.00 for March-June semester
Name
Address
CLIP BLANK AND MAIL TO PUBLICATIONS OFFICE — NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MARCH 24, 1944
NO. 2
Anne McCormick Awarded Medal
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced this week the selection of Anne O’Hare McCormick, foreign correspondent of the New York Times, as the 62nd recipient of the Laetare Medal. Mrs. McCormick thus becomes the 14th woman to be awarded this medal, which has been presented by the University each year since 1883 to an outstanding member of the Catholic laity in the United States.
In announcing this year’s selection, a selection which is always made on Laetare Sunday, Father O’Donnell said:
1 “The Laetare medal for 1944 is awarded to Anne O’Hare McCormick, distinguished journalist and foreign correspondent of the New York Times. Her brilliant reporting of national and international events of history in the making has been enriched by a clarity and vision that has given her preeminence in that field, as evidenced by the fact that she was the first woman to be awarded the Pulitzer prize in journalism. Yet Mrs. McCormick has accepted all honors with a gracious modesty so characteristic of the noble woman whose faith in God inspires her to great heights in the pursuit of truth.”
Anne O’Hare McCormick was born in Wakefield, Yorkshire, England in the ’80s. Her education was a product of private schools here and abroad. She received a B.A. degree from St. Mary’s Academy, near Columbus, 0.
“Times" Editor
Before beginning her work for the New York Times, Mrs. McCormick became associate editor of the Catholic Universe Bulletin. When frequent trips to Europe accompanying her husband, Francis J. McCormick, an importer of Dayton, 0., supplied her with a background for a journalistic career, she wrote the Times and suggested that she would like to become a free-lance contributor. The Times immediately gave permission, and so in 1921, Anne O’Hare McCormick began her career of “on the spot” reporting. She reported the rise of Mussolini and Fascism in Italy, interviewed De Valera, Blum, and Hitler, and
most of the national leaders in the United States. She built a reputation for herself by her honest, powerful, and intelligent reporting.
In 1936 she received the honor of being the first woman member of the Times editorial board. But still another high in feminine achievement was to be reached. In that same year she won the Pulitzer Prize for journalism, thus becoming th<« first woman to receive this honor. Prominent women’s organizations selected her as “Woman of 1939.”
Today general recognition concedes her knowledge of European political affairs as authority. It also rates her one of the most outstanding foreign correspondents of her generation. And it respects her for her “gracious modesty so characteristic of the noble woman whose faith in God inspires her....”
Writes to SCHOLASTIC
That Anne McCormick is not a total stranger to the Scholastic is proved by a letter she mailed the University dated Cleveland, 0., October, 1906. In that letter she asked the then editor to forward a few copies of the Scholastic which contained a particular essay which had pleased her very much.
“Will you do me the favor to send me, if you can, the three numbers of the Scholastic containing Mr. O’Donnell’s essay on Francis Thompson. It is so exceptional a piece of work, both in critical insight and poetic feeling- and expression, that I want to preserve it. I should like to congratulate the writer if I knew where or how to reach him. I imagine, however, judging from the promise of his work in the Scholastic, that if we keep our eyes open, we shan’t be long in finding out!”
The interesting note in the letter is that the “Mr. O’Donnell” referred to later became one of the most famous poets in America, the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame from 1928 until 1934. The latest edition of his works has been compiled under the title of “The Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell,” published by the University Press in 1942.—AlLesmez
Notre Dame Educators
Speak at Chicago Meet
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of the faculty, was in Chicago Monday through Thursday, attending a meeting of the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities.
At the same time Dr. Waldemar Gur-ian, faculty member .and editor of the Review of Politics, attended the sessions of the Midwest Catholic colleges and universities. This meeting was held Tuesday night and Dr. Gurian led the discussion following an address on postwar geography, given by Dr. Paul Ketrick, president of Loretto Heights College, Denver, Colo. Father Cunningham is a member of the board of review of the NCA group.
Tuesday morning, Brother William, C.S.C., superintendent of high schools of the Brothers of Holy Cross, reported on the activities of the national organization committee of the N.C.EA., and that evening ■ Father Cunningham, chairman of the N.C.E.A. reorganization committee, presided at a second meeting of that group.
Father Cunningham was in Indianapolis last week attending the. Indiana state meeting of the NCA.
Lillis in News Again
A letter recently sent to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president ofthe University, from Mrs. H. P. Burnett, wife of Captain H. P. Burnett, who was for a long, time commanding officer at the naval station here, enclosed a clipping from a Los Angeles paper showing Lt. (jg) Paul Lillis, 1941 Notre Dame football captain, as commander of a P-T boat. He is shown cleaning a gun. The picture was distributed widely throughout the United States and was printed in many papers.
Lillis was an engineering student and played tackle on the undefeated 1941 football team.
5
Student Council Voting
On Schedule Next Week
The balloting for the Student Activities Council will take place next Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Ballots will be distributed on these evenings in each residence hall, and any man with an 80 per cent average is eligible for office. Tuesday nights voting will be by floors.
Every student will vote for the man on his floor whom he wants on the council. On Thursday night, the balloting will decide which of the floor representatives will represent the hall, the highest man on each floor becoming a member of the hall council. Any ties in the ‘•primaries” will be settled by another ballot on the floor concerned on Wednesday night. In each hall, ballots will be counted in the presence of the rector. In Brownson Hall, voting will be by dorms. Voting for the off-campus representative will take place in Room 10 of the Main building between 9 and 12 Saturday morning, March 25.
The following clubs and organizations are eligible for representation on the Student Council: each individual engineering club, the Economic Round Table, the Wranglers, the Knights of Columbus, the Law club, the Catholic Action Students, the Scholastic, the Bookmen, the La Raza club, the Commerce Forum, the Band, and the Glee club. These and any other recognized student organizations should apply for representation at the office of the prefect of discipline before Friday, March 31. The clubs may select their own methods of choosing their representative, the only requirements being that he be a civilian with an 80 per cent scholastic average.
Faculty Advisor Assumes Business Office Duties
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., since. 1941 faculty advisor to the editorial staff of the University of Notre Dame Scholastic, student news weekly, has assumed in addition the business supervision of the publication, succeeding in . the latter capacity William R. Dooley.
Mr. Dooley, business manager of the student publications at Notre Dame from 1935 to 1938 and again from 1941 to the present, was relieved of his Scholastic duties in order to give his full time to his other duties as assistant secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and managing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Announcement of the change was made
Mr. William Dooley
by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and was in line with an earlier announcement that James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, had been relieved of his duties as academic publicity director of the University in order to devote full attention to the greatly enlarged alumni program. J. Walter Kennedy, sports publicity director at Notre Dame, assumed the direction of the University’s entire publicity organization.
Father Carey, assistant professor of English, was graduated from the University in 1931 and has been a member of the faculty since 1937. He was faculty advisor to the editorial staff of the Dome, University yearbook, until it was discontinued in 1942 for the duration of the war. He is a nephew of the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University, who was one of the country’s foremost poets. In 1942, Father Carey compiled, edited and had published Father O’Donnell’s poems under the title of The Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell, a centenary publication of the University.
Mr. Dooley was graduated from Notre Dame in 1926 and returned to the campus in 1933 to join the staff of the Alumni Association. In the interim he had been on the editorial staff of the Peoria, Ill., Journal-Transcript and advertising and publicity director of the Northern Indiana Public Service Company, Hammond, Ind.
Marguerite E. Varga, advertising manager of the Scholastic and office assistant in the publications organization, continues in her duties.
Washington Hall Again Site of Grad Ceremony
An unusual highlight in the last University commencement, held in February, was revealed today. This was the fact that for the first time in many years a Notre Dame graduation was held in Washington Hall auditorium. For many years Notre Dame commencement ceremonies have, of necessity, been held in the naval drill hall and the fieldhouse. This year, due to the small attendance anticipated, the ceremonies were held in Washington hall.
At the graduation ceremonies, Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., professor of religion and English, told the graduates that the character of a nation cannot rise above the character of its homes. He urged American youth to start combating, immediately, the “evil forces that are undermining our home front.
“In the home,” said Father Burke, “are planted and nourished those moral and civic virtues which are ultimately the truest guardians of our national liberty and happiness. The miracles of science which will certainly emerge from this war may bring new comforts and an added wealth to our country which may make us again the envy of the world.. But if while wealth accumulates, men decay in that moral character which is the fruit of a good home, then America is doomed.”
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
The graduation ceremonies were the first streamlined commencement activities in the history of the school. Class day was eliminated. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell Naval R. 0. T. C. award was presented to Charles M. Urruela, of Miami Beach, Fla., as the member of the NROTC maintaining the highest scholastic average throughout his college career. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, made the presentation.
6
Local Alumni Group to Hold Rockne Program
The annual Rockne Memorial mass and annual meeting, sponsored by the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph valley, will be featured Sunday morning.
A memorial mass will be held at 8:30 a.m. in Sorin hall chapel. At 9:15 a.m. a breakfast will be held in the Notre Dame cafeteria, and a memorial program will follow at 10 o’clock.
Knute K. Rockne
A visit to Rockne’s grave will follow the program.
The annual meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club will also be held at the meeting, in keeping with the policy adopted last year. At the meeting will be elected four directors to serve for a period of three years. The nominating committee, composed of Arthur Haley, Harold Weber, Frank Miles, and James , Meehan, has offered the following candidates :
Vitus G. Jones, E. R. McEndarfer, Albert McGann, and John P. Donnelly.
The memorial mass and program is an annual observance of the death of Knute Rockne, who was killed in a plane crash on March 31, 1931. The program is usually conducted on Sunday, and prior to - war restrictions, the mass was celebrated in Dillon hall chapel before the shrine of St. Olaf, patron saint of Norway, which is dedicated to the memory of Rockne.
❖ There will be a meeting of all stu- ❖ ❖ dent company officers and other in- ❖ ❖ terested parties within the next two ❖ ❖ weeks, for the purpose of selecting *»♦ another V-12 executive committee.
Ballad Singers Good But Lack Something—Critic
By SEAMAN GEORGE NESBIT
To most of us on the campus they were a novelty. Perhaps that is why Washington Hall was so crowded. Indeed every seat was taken last Friday night for the performance of the American Ballad Singers. It was gratifying to see the turnout and to feel that the students enjoyed the program. It has been the case in past years at Notre Dame that the formal concert has not been well attended. But it may have been that the strings of the Irish hearts were alive and functioning last Friday night for the very special reason that it was St. Patrick’s day. At any rate the students certainly responded heartily to the clever renditions of the group.
And they were clever. The whole program consisted of American folk songs, arranged by Mr. Seigmeister, the leader of the group. He explained that they had been picked up on his travels throughout the country and selected for their sectional representative qualities. The songs were from all walks of life and some dated back to Revolutionary times. Others were new; that is, about present day stories and people of interest.
Mr. Seigmeister composed several of the songs himself. Two of those being: “General MacArthur” and “Paul Bunyan.” They were simple items and obviously exhibited no inventive genius. They had been patterned on the melodic and harmonic lines found in other selections on the program. But it was the singing that put the songs across. The singers were skilled to say the least. They had a sense of balance which gave their simplest rendition an air of professional appeal.
They sang in a most informal manner —seated behind a table throughout the program. Their appearance was as though impromptu. They seemed to be discussing, rather than singing'. Yet this effect brought a round of applause after each number.
In all, they did well what they set out to do, and that is the test of the success of any program. But the evening lacked in that there were no compositions of length or of any great status presented. However that was not the fault of the Ballad Singers. They sang the songs that America has written so far. In one sense that itself was signficant. It showed clearly the need of some great American music.
There's plenty of action . .. .
Ed Mikkelson Leaves
Ed Mikkelson, former member of the Notre Dame V-12 program and Scholastic news writer, had been serving in ships company here • at the University V-12 office while awaiting orders to attend a midshipman’s school. His orders arrived last Monday, and he left the following day for Asbury Park, N. J.
Prior to coming to Notre Dame July 1, 1943, and taking deck and pre-medical subjects, Ed attended the University of Minnesota for three years as a pre-med student. His home is in Minneapolis, Minn.
As news writer for last semester’s Scholastic, he wrote news stories ranging from Professor Brown’s experiences in the far East, to that of the job of clearing snow from the walks of the campus. This semester he has successfully carried out a new and different Scholastic subscription plan in Alumni, Dillon and Zahm halls. The plan gave forth, in advance, the approximate number of copies which each hall would need.
—Arthur L. Wawner, USNR
News Bulletin
All trainees of the University of Notre Dame V-12 Unit who wish to demonstrate their ability in any form of creative writing. are invited to submit their manuscripts to be considered for publication in future issues of the "Scholastic." Such work as original poetry, humor, campus oddity, etc. — if published will include either a “by-line" or a “tag-line," giving credit to the author. Any seaman interested should bring his material to room 123. Dillon Hall, and any marine to room 145. Cavanaugh Hall.
7
AND THIS LEAP YEAR!
From Franklin College we have re- . ceived the results of a student poll conducted to discover the ideal man or woman.
The man’s ideal woman should be:
Tallest: 5 ft. 9 in.
Shortest: 5 ft. 2 in.
Average weight: 124 lbs.
First Choice: Companionable, intelligent, kind.
Second Choice: Attractive, faithful, trustworthy.
Third Choice: Sweet, considerate, good disposition.
No comments n-e-e-d-e-d- - . .
THE WOMAN'S IDEAL MAN
SHOULD BE:
Tallest: 6 ft. 3-in.
Shortest: 5 ft. 7 in.
Average weight: 170 lbs.
First Choice: Considerate, intelligent, sincere.
Second Choice: Considerate, intelligent, appearance.
Third Choice: Ambition,, companionable, dependability.
“No love, no nothing?”
IN TRUE 1944 FASHION
“Slippery ice—very thin Pretty girl—tumbled in, Saw a boy—on the bank Gave a shriek—then she sank.”
“Boy on bank—heard the shout Jumped right in—helped her out. Now. he’s hers—very nice, But SHE had—to break the ice.”
—Quaker Campus
WHAT? NO BADIN BOG?
A brief-brief from the Purdue Exponent:
Military Success Formula
Shoot the breeze
Pass the buck
Make seven copies of everything
Also (Pm told)—keep off.the grass! -From the same rag, comes,
A Warning to Civilian Students
“. . . look both ways before you cross the grass.” . . . civilian students will still -be out $5 per try.
THIS ISN'T NOTRE DAME....
Even the Red Cross can go only so
far. At Southern California University two GIs received the following from a kind and human worker:
“We’re sorry but the holes in these socks are rather (subtle) large. We’d really be glad to help, but next time please bring them in before you can put them on from either end.”
. . . OH, Yeah!
A POEM—I THINK
Willie stood on the railroad tracks He didn’t hear the bell.
The train it went to Halifax,
And I know where you think Willie went, But he didn’t—no priority.
. . . You should hear the other version!
BMOC'S, HEAR THIS!
I have been reading in the Minnesota Daily about an organization of 12 members called “Romance, Inc.” who profess authority on problems of dating ' and stuff. Sponsored by the YMCA and the YWCA, this group speaks to various high schools in Minneapolis and St. Paul. Quite occasionally problems come up that stump the members, but the biggest bewilderment of all seems to be (for the coeds) : “How can you get a man?”
Have you, tried bear traps lately, girls?
WOMEN ARE FUNNY
From those beautiful girls at New Rochelle college comes the. following:
Mel: “You know, I didn’t accept Jedd the. first time he proposed.”
Nell:“I guess you didn’t. You weren’t there.”
OR . . . Fade me, Buster, with this one:
Teacher: “I’ll flunk any student who breaks silence.”
Little Joe: “Give me liberty or give me death.”
Teacher: “Who said that?”
Little Joe: “Patrick Henry.” ... You finish it!
IN CLOSING
A little advice in etiquette from Bard College: “At a wedding it.is impolite to kiss the bride more than twice unless you happen to be: (a) the groom, or (b) bigger than the groom.
Strictly GI. ...
New Classes Added
Announcement has been made that two new courses for war workers in the Engineering, Science and Management War Training program have been added to the schedule and opened this week.
The classes, in the College of Engineering, are elementary engineering, taught on Monday and Thursday nights, and descriptive geometry, taught on Tuesday and Thursday nights.
The classes are under the direction of Prof. Carson Buck, of the College of Engineering.
CONDON-S4TIONS
BY DAVE CONDON
IT ISN’T TOO early to start once again mentioning the item that has been a principal source of copy for this column during its on and off existence. The subject has been the Notre Dame endowment, and the contention has been that students themselves should plan for some substantial way to increase the little over a million dollar endowment.
—o—
LOOKING AT THE record, (with Al Smith, of course), it can be established that there are over 140 colleges and universities in the country possessing larger endowment sums than Notre Dame. These colleges and universities comprise a group ranging from Harvard, North-western, and Yale, to small teacher’s colleges. All with a larger endowment than Notre Dame.
—o—
IF THE PROBLEM isn’t recognized = by the students, it is going to be difficult to secure recognition from other sources. . It exists as a definite problem, and does bear thinking about.
IN THE PAST there have been some good causes promoted on the campus. The Scholastic Bengal Bouts, after a little discussion, became a tradition. For two years a War Charities carnival was promoted with amazing results. The Knights of Columbus were very responsible for’ the selling of war bonds and stamps on the campus. After much shouting and otherwise, the CAS began work on a student book exchange. It does look like student projects, when tackled, can be tackled successfully. The endowment problem, on the other hand, is the biggest challenge that has yet been raised.
8
[71lllllllllUIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIUIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllHIIHIIIIIIIIIl[|]
iNow hear this! |
/■Ttmuniiuiiiimiiiniii
ONE MORE WEEK
Seven days and five exams are all that stand in the way of the Fourth Battalion. By this moment next week the occupants of battered Badin will be packed in parlor cars and pullmans heading for a brief stay at home and a chance to strut the gold braid in front of the local gang-.
In the meantime most of the 240-odd S’s are planning an “indoor” week-end in order to be set for the five-gun salute to be delivered in the class room building beginning Monday. These have been a tough, cram-full seven weeks and should be a good foundation for the hard road ahead.	.
MATE'S LOG
Records reveal more than half the men in the present class of 1200 were either students, teachers, druggists, clerks or engineers before pulling on the CPO shirt . . . but a few of the more interesting jobs were held by Walt Fitzgerald (1st Batt..) who handled a hockey stick for the Boston Club . . . and Aldo Cappellazzi (1st) who was a patrolman and language man for the city of New York . . . others list themselves in such positions as “bar boy,” “oil field roughneck,” and “insane asylum. attendant.” ... The latter gent probably had little trouble getting used to the mad, rushing life of a middie. . . . Bob Cox (4th) offers to trade a weekend liberty for “15 minutes of Georgia Sunshine.” . . . How do you rate these slide-rule working, 4.0 D-C men who still haven’t figured out how to tell time by the University church bell.
INDIANA WEATHER
To fans of the sunny South and jolly New England to the contrary, we .would like to speak a word for the local weather. It may have led you to believe this is the area where the 12 types (hot, cold, rainy, sunny, snowy, etc.) all get together before heading- for their respective climates, and this might be true. But we suspect day after day of pleasant sunshine would soon see us rising somewhat before 6 a.m. (as past classes have) and doing a few dear old push ups in the early morning air. We also suspect current quick-changing of temperature and amount of precipitation is a big impetus to study desire—a very handy little desire to have around these days. Just remember: if it’s an ill wind, -it blows in Indiana.
MEET THE CHIEF
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
A strong determination and a pleasing personality are fitting expressions for the introduction of Chief Specialist (A) Stewart Earl Clark, one of the Navy’s athletic instructors at Notre Dame. Chief Clark was born Jan. 29, 1917, in Grand Haven, Mich,, but moved to the sun-kist land of Miami, Fla., after he found out how cold the winters were in Michigan. His home has been there ever since.
Chief Clark’s athletic ambitions were planned when he was 15 years old. It was then that he decided to break seven national diving titles. From that time on he lived with that goal in mind.
The Chief graduated from’ Miami Edison High school in 1935 and went to Ohio State University from 1938 to 1941. In 1941, he realized his ambitions when he won the following titles in diving:
Big Ten Inter-Collegiate low spring board, National Inter - Collegiate low board, National Inter-Collegiate high board, N.A.A.U. low board diving (indoor), N.A.A.U. high board diving (indoor), N.A.A.U. high board diving (outdoor) , N.A.A.U. 33 foot platform diving.
This was the first time in the history of diving that one man had won these seven titles.
In 1941 Chief Clark was mentioned for the J. A. Sullivan Award, which is given to the number one athlete who has done the most to promote his particular sport. Chief Clark was also selected on the All-American Swimming team for five years.
In October, 1941, Chief Clark joined the Army Air Corps, but was released in December of that year so that he might join the Navy. His first naval assignment hastened him to Norfolk, Va. He was then sent to the Training Station at Great Lakes, Ill., where he instructed swimming classes for officers. After 14 months at Great Lakes, the - Chief came to the University of Notre Dame on July 1, 1943 as a physical instructor of the V-12 program. .
Chief Clark was married Dec. 20,1941 to a co-ed from Columbus, Ohio.
AND ALSO
First fraternity we’ve heard of to be planning a get-together is the gang of Sigma Nu. . . . Lionel Goulet (1st batt.) is working out the arrangements and has discovered 14 brothers to date. . . . Room Captain Frank Jean was the only guest present who didn’t entirely enjoy . the triple-birthday blowout fin 113 Howard last week. . . . Cornell Janeway, Chuck James and AI Itthermann were the cause of the cake crumbs. ’
As the gold and blue mix it up ... .
I Haven't Quit Smoking
By WILLIAM FRIDAY
It seems that every one who succeeds in breaking the soul-clutching habit of smoking feels compelled to publish the fact in writing. Hardly a day passes that you can’t run across an article by some one who has finally given it up for good. “Feel years younger,” “Haven’t slept so well in years,’4 “Food no longer tastes like putty,” they say. Makes me feel like I’ve got a foot in the grave before I’ve half finished the article. -
I decided to view the subject from a-personal standpoint, and I think it’s time someone stood up for those of us who haven’t given it up. For my part, I sleep like a top; my food tastes as good as it ever did (making due allowance for the local beanery); I’m not going broke buying cigarettes, as any small change I might save by not smoking would be just that much more to spend on shows, dates, drinking, and other frivolous pastimes. About the only advantage I can’t claim is, I don’t feel years younger; or maybe I do; I feel just as good now as when I was ten.
Commerce Forum Meets
A regular meeting of the Commerce -Forum was held Wednesday evening in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse. At the meeting Seaman Charles Sipple addressed the Forum on “The Effect of the Industrial Reconversion-on the Returning Serviceman.” A short dis--cussion followed Seaman Sipple’s ..-address.	*
9
Time Marches On For Notre Dame Man As He Uses 'The Voice's' Watch
The archives have rich documents of University history, the science museum has many interesting exhibits of early efforts that later became famed inventions, but it remained for a student in St. Edward’s hall to come up with the greatest Notre Dame treasure of them all—a watch once owned by “The Voice.”
“The Voice”' is Frank Sinatra and the revelation of information concerning this Notre Dame treasure will undoubtedly add additional glamour to the Golden Dome campus for the girls across the way and down on the hill.
The student is Frank C. Pellitteri, who tells how he acquired the watch:
“Sometime last summer Frank Sinatra auctioned his clothing and accessories on the air for War Bonds.' Since I was returning home to New York, a very good friend of the family wanted to present me with a gift, for it was after my completion of my first semester at N.D. As he heard Frank Sinatra on the air he recalled I was one of Sinatra’s early admirers when he was with Dorsey. (Not a strong admirer at present.)
“Money didn’t matter to this good friend of mine for after competing with a man from Maine he won out, obtaining the watch for a $10,000 war bond. His name is Mr. Augustus L. Merolle, owner and president of Empire Metal Cap Co., Inc., at Bush Terminal, Brooklyn.
“The name of the watch isn’t common, ‘Orator,’ apparently a Swiss watch. It’s face has six or seven dials. It also has a separate movement for a stop watch. Gray leather strap and on back of the watch engraved F. S., denoting Sinatra’s initials.	-
“I treasure this gift more so because it was given to me by Mr. Merolle himself than knowing it was Sinatra’s watch.
“I’ve written to Sinatra to send me a verified letter of validity that this watch belonged to him.”
And that is the story of how the “Voice’s” watch ended up on the Notre Dame campus. Members of the local chapter of the Sweethearts of Sinatra, Local 507, or the “We Would Be Glad To Die Foi* Sinatra” union, chapter 908, may see the watch by presenting their union cards and giving the secret motto, “Down With Bing Crosby,” all others will have to wait until the watch is put on public exhibit.
Students Look Forward to Spring on Campus
leged appearance of warm weather is the fact that the outdoor season is in the offing, and, already the entire student
body is shouting, “Take me out to the ball game,” as coach Jake Kline’s baseball crew limbers up.
Regardless of inclement weather that might follow, the first day of spring was ushered onto the campus Monday with all fanfare befitting a spring day. Civilian students wore light coats and there were occasional “sweater” boys strolling around taking advantage of the sunshine.
W hat the unpredictable Indiana weather man has cooked up for the remainder of the month is still a matter of question. Until spring was heralded in, the campus had experienced two weeks of cold weather, but March 20 marked a change.
Notre Dame’s campus, often called one of the most beautiful in the country, always blossoms forth in the springtime. Old students and faculty members are looking forward to walks around the lakes and long awaited is the day when the magnolia trees below the Golden Dome burst forth in their pink finery.
For those who wonder why spring was ushered in one day early this year—the answer is Leap Year. The calendar, aside from giving bashful maidens a chance to. catch their man, played havoc with those who were planning on March 21 for the season’s appearance.
The greatest news brought by the al-
Late Spring at Notre Dame
10
By ROBERT RIORDAN
Jack Leahy... easy going marine... calls Chicago home... 6'1" long... spends as much time in bed as possible... pet peeves are sergeants and getting up.
High school alma mater is Calumet in Chi . . .lettered in basketball and track ... refused to comment on his women in h.s. ... was elected Popularity King in 1941... spent all four years being a playboy.
Started Notre Dame career as civilian in September, 1941... joined U.S.M.C.R. Dec. 9, 1942, because he liked the marines. .. has lived in Breezy P, Carroll, Alumni, Dillon, Zahm, and Cavanaugh halls... in Dillon was known as “Lover” Leahy to roommates Danny O’Neil and “Aiderman” Czarobski... now interested most in getting commission... plans to transfer to Marine air corps... wants to get into action__will go to P. I. at end of this term.
BMASM... chief reason—Elaine Winterer. .. met her at Freshman dance... was once stuck with hex’ in snow drift all night in his Buick convertible... engaged last April... his comment, “It’s great!”... plans to get married when commission comes through... claims he’s true to her.
A.B. ... Econ major... wants to go into advertising... was in Commerce Forum until they found out he was an A.B. ... favorite drink—Manhattans... enjoys living... only existing at present ... 83 average... likes to eat Puff Balls ... spends his time sweeping decks, making bunks, and cleaning bulkheads... likes to study “social problems” on campus. .. spent two summers “wukkin’ on de railroad.”
Sophomore class vice - president. . . . played interhall tennis and football both civilian years... main topics of conversation now are Elaine and his roommate’s week-ends... likes to read short stories... also likes good plays and good books . . . considers himself a “pretty
Prof. O'Malley Lectures
Prof. Francis J. O’Malley, professor-of English, has returned to the campus following an appearance last week at St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn. Prof. O’Malley addressed the college convocation on Friday, and delivered other lectures there during his stay. He has recently been lecturing in South Bend.
Frosh Contest Announced
Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the Speech Department, this week announced details of the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest.
This contest is open to any student who has not completed two semesters of his undergraduate work. Any freshman who wishes to enter the contest, should submit his name to one of the teachers of speech, or to the Department of Speech, room 328 Main Building.
The delivery of the oration must be no less than eight nor more than 11 minutes in length. Of course, quoted matter must not exceed 25 percent of the entire oration.
Names of the contestants must be personally submitted not later than noon-of Saturday, April 1. Preliminary try-outs
will start Monday, April 17, and the final contest will he held on Monday, April 24.
A cash award of $10 is given to the member of the freshman class who, in. the opinion of the judges, has delivered, in the final contest, the best original oration on a subject of his own choice.
Official Representative
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., assistant director of studies, was in Chicago this week as official representative of the University at sessions of the North Central Catholic Educational Association, held in the Palmer House’. Many other Notre Dame instructors and educators attended the meetings. (See separate story)
This week’s story is one of cooperation, sacrifice, sweat, and fears for the •“Semper Fidelis” Clan here at Notre Dame.
CO-OPERATION ‘
The 315 Marines “kicking in” 100% for the Tied Cross is their top “pat on the back” for the week.
SACRIFICE?
Those boys who nobly relinquished their Saturday evening cultural pursuits in and around South Bend for the hard cold business of scholastic endeavor are to be highly commended. Their unselfish gesture is an indication—but here, let a typical private speak for the group. “I am positive that I speak for the men of our I-V-T-D-S-E-T-S-O-S-S-A-B-N-E-H-O-C-O-S-E-A (I volunteer to devote Saturday evenings to study of scholarly subjects and besides nothing ever happens off campus bn Saturday evenings , anyway) club when I say that we are
happy to make this small contribution to the war effort. What puzzles me is why didn’t we think of the idea sooner.” It cannot be said that Private Cannit B. True speaks for the entire club, but it is felt that those opposing this statement are so far in the minority that space cannot be devoted to their opinions.
SWEAT
The pool of cold perspiration in whose depths “Porky” floundered while seeking a convincing argument for Ann that there was NOT a chick at the station will suffice for the entire detachment. Those following the story, The Winning of the Cranberry Queen by Lynch, will be happy to hear that the male lead’s composition of poetry (poetry in the most tolerating sense) has the course running smoothly once again.
FEARS
Yes, even in the corps. The creaking of rusty joints, the moaning of aching bodies, and the flap-flap of the side straddle hop, jumping jack to you, “Old Reliable” to Shief Hutnick, last Friday morning at 06:15 told the campus that the worst fears had been realized. Calisthenics again!
The following letter was addressed to this column:
Sirs:	.
Our good nature is exhausted; our tolerance vanished, and our patience liquidated. Hair pulling has ceased. The last vestige of hair disappeared last Thursday evening when Chick “The Voice” serenaded our quarters.
May we suggest through your column that this yokel cease his hillbilly jive until he has completed the six easy lessons he boasts of having paid for?
May we also suggest that he refrain from reading his radio scripts of The, Life and Loves of Monk McAndrews?
Indignantly,
Will U. Killim.
Grand High Counselor, International Honorable Order of Distinguished Frankie Sinatra Admirers. Cavanaugh Local 5-Z-306.9.
CONCERNING THIS LETTER
Any resemblance to the true state of affairs on third deck of the Marine* Mansion is coincidental and purely malicious.
Those who have for eight months : watched the last thirty second (and following two minutes) frantic rush of . William Bollaert to make all the forma- ~ tions will be relieved to hear that the. problem is being solved. Company commander Tobleck has the lad under his
wing and, according to last minute dispatches, the gloveless lad is doing great wonders in. making formations.
Percy Shelley once again rolls in his grave as his poetry is profaned and mutilated for dedication. Some of the birds in Co. B merit a few selected passages from Shelley’s To a Skylark after Saturday’s drill.
Private Lamb :	•
“Hail to thee, blithe spirit!
Bird thou never wert,”
Private Lundsman:
“In the golden lighting
Of the sunken sun,
O’er which clouds are brightening, Thou dost float and run;
Like an unbodied joy whose
race is just begun.”
Private McIntosh:
“Teach us, sprite or bird,
What sweet thoughts are thine;
I have never heard
Praise of love or wine
That panted forth a flood of rapture so divine.”
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK:	/
All seniors who rejected the midshipmen offer, To leave for P. I. at midsemester.
Number Please!
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
A look of ecstatic bliss covers the face of the seaman as he sits carefree in one of the many telephone booths located in the zero deck of the dining hall. The sailor is apparently talking to his heartthrob and his expressions of love are shown in the movements of his face.
I
Presently, he breaks through with a smile whose only receiver is the dull end of the phone. Soon he laughs and almost swallows his chewing gum in the process.
This panorama of expressions is noted , in the other telephone booths. A marine sits in one booth slouched down, possibly trying to hide his conversation from the waiting line outside. He does contortions with his face—first a frown, then a grin and soon his face shows an expression of grim resolve. One can almost hear him say, “I’ll do it.”
The next booth contains some fellow ’ who never quite got used to talking to one person on a phone. He features himself with an audience. His fists bang the walls; he holds out his hands in oratorical splendor while he expounds the theories of love to his girl friend. He thinks that soap-boxes should be in
. (Continued on page 20)
12
^xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxg t THE GREEN BANNER B E BY JIM CASEY R kxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxS
(Ed. Note: The opinions reflected herein are those of the columnist and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of. those boys who take off in the direction of St. Joseph hospital instead of cross country, through the woods, to Grand-' mother’s house across the way.)
Ray Dempsey strolled into the campus barber shop, was handed a lottery number, and ushered to an uncomfortable bench. An hour and 15 minutes later, Bill grunted “67,” and signified with pointed scissors that Dempsey had won the third chair down and the white smocked tonsorial artist with the Shino-la in his hair. Settling himself for about 7	a half an hour of speculation and day-
-	dreaming, Ray said to the lil’ shaver,
“Trim the sides, a touch off the top, and leave the ears just as they are.” With ;	a businesslike, “As you wish, sir,” the
i	barber began to cut up. Four minutes
/	later, four- minutes to the second, Demp-
?	sey swears (I mean he swears to the
four minutes, the Green Banner • isn’t concerned with the flavor of his daily ; vocabulary), the barber said, “Water?” “O.K., unless you have Soda—that is— No! no! leave it dry,” announced Ray-Boy sheepishly. Before he could say Lucky Tiger, he was paying for the service rendered him with one hand, and running- the fingers of the other . through the shortest hairs atop his bleeding scalp in 21 years. “Short and snappy)” muttered the Sorinite, as he placed his hat upon his head, pushed it back up:above his eyebrows, and hurried out.
For the- publicls .information, Demps, r did you get gas or ether with that treatment?
Jimmy Spencer, music rack setterupper and taker-downer for Johnny Stehlen’s Victory band last semester, considers himself a very adept diver. J Drop over to the pool some dull evening and Jim might enlighten you on how to fall into water gracefully. He might even go so far as to put on an exhibition for your pleasure, free of charge. He’s good, he says. ... It’s amazing-how much St. Patrick’s Day meant to ■*- Dick Sadowski and Ben Mammina; probably the local atmosphere, plus the com-' 7 pany of one Miss Hickey. For details, A	see “Buzz” Hassett. Wherever there’s
life, there’s Hassett, sometimes Hickey, J	and often Dick Murphy.
Flash — Dick Murphy is campused again, or is it still? Whenever the moths become over-abundant in his wallet, he simply signs in late. Dick claims it’s the only manner in which he can save money.
Mike Gary, wearing a narrow brimmed derby, a kelly green bow tie, and carrying a long black cigar in place of a shillelagh, was indeed . a picture that would warm the cockles of the heart of any true Irishman on St. Patrick’s day. Surprisingly enough he did not disgrace the race once during the entire evening, and that isn’t like Mr. Gary.
Before catching the last bus back to school, Mike claims that he fell in and out of love in three seconds flat. He fell in when he first spied the lady in question and out when she faced him. In his own words, “She had a face that would stop a sun dial.” Mike returned to school as sober as a judge, anyway as sober as any Irish judge should be on St. Patrick’s day.
’Tis said that senior engineers carry their slide rules with them whenever they “go to town.” They never know when they might have a few figures to check. Besides, some of them, for instance, Bob Dunn and Bob Reed, so seldom leave the campus that they might need a math stick to figure their way back to school.
HERE AND THERE
So many girls -from St. Mary’s went in to Chicago this past week-end, it was believed that there must - have been a run on Nylons somewhere in the city. But then nylons aren’t supposed to run! What was the story!
Pat O’Brien and Andy Burke claim that the summer season at Benton Harbor has unofficially opened. However, they advise, if week7ending there, supply yourself with a parka, and not bathing trunks. They carry parkas with them even in July, ’cause they, always get a cool reception up there regardless of the season. . . . ’Tis said that girls enjoy, the company of smart men. . . . As long as theydon’t get too smart. . . . Rosie’s seems as much a'Notre Dame haunt on Saturday nights as it is on Friday evenings. . . .
ADVICE TO FRESHMEN
- • 'AA.
You don’t purchase tickets on entering Washington hall! . . . and furthermore your dining hall books are not good in St. Mary’s Oriole. ; . AFrank Kent says, “During the summer months there will be no ice fishing on either of the campus lakes.” . . . Let’s hope that all men elected to the student council have small hands. Result—they won’t be able to grab so much! . . . Brownson (w)reck is . . . Too bad we don’t have a student union- . - . Perhaps it’s just as well, the Arcadia would probably be forced out of business.
A DELICATE QUESTION
While eating in a St. Louis steak house on meatless Tuesday, several weeks ago, Doc Gillespie and Ray Dempsey noticed a sign behind the cashier’s counter which read: “Our products are not endorsed by the armed forces.” After completing their meal, “Doc” walked over to the sign, borrowed a pen from the cashier and added beneath the lettering on the notice, “And we can see why.” This is all well and good, but the question is—Would Good Housekeeping have approved?
TRA-LA-LA
These are the days when the fancy of a young man lightly turns (yes, very lightly), to books, but much more easily and quickly to the bourgeoning outdoors, preferably towards the Dixie and beyond. Yessir, we just can’t wait for St. Mary’s to turn out in their spring uniforms. Mother tells us that in her day, the new lavender-and-old-lace ensemble which appeared late in the March of the year 1900 was nothing less than stunning, and had repercussions in our own midst. Now if we just had those gay parsols, oh what a feast it would be! We’re thinking of taking a box lunch, a bottle of red pop, and a volume of James Whitcomb Riley’s poems for a day’s outing along the river, soon, if we can get permission from our parents and the local authorities, naturally, but every spring we get that certain reckless urge to cast caution to the winds. Anyway, the towers of Sorin have always been romantic, and are largely responsible for this devilish design.
HAVE YOU NOTICED?
Rosary College rings the bell again. . . . There’s still no help shortage for enterprising young men to ameliorate at the Library.,. ... How does Joe Murriane rate so much luck on blind dates? Well, it’s Rosie’s again. .
13
But Mr. Blue slipped up somewhere
Bookmen Seek Members Among Students. V-12s
The Bookmen, a campus group interested in the discussion of current literature, have invited all students—Marine, Navy, and Civilians—to apply for membership, officials have announced. Those interested should contact one of the following members: Tex Pequigney, president, 305 Sorin Hall; Dick Ames, librarian, 339 Sorin; or Pvt. Arnie Sklare, Cavanaugh Hall. If unable to do this, they should attend the membership meet
ing to be held at the Rockne Memorial Lounge, on Monday at 7:30 p.m.
All applicants are interviewed by the membership of the club. They are admitted on the basis of this interview.
Each member is required to purchase a book of current interest which becomes the property of the club for the semester. At the end of that time it is returned to the individual. The purpose of this feature is to make current books available—books to be discussed at the meetings.
Meetings are held bi-weekly, on Monday evenings.
Heisman Trophy Displayed In 'Rock'
By DAVE CONDON
"Scholastic" Editor
The Heisman trophy, which recently took up its abode in the trophy room of the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse, has moved into the most illustrious company the trophy has yet known in its tour around the football world.
The trophy now lies surrounded by Notre Dame trophies, plaques, arid memories of Irish glory, past and present.
Announcement was made that the Heisman trophy had come to roost at Notre Dame early this week. The trophy was put on display around the middle of March and has already been viewed by a large number of enthusiasts.
Winner of the Heisman award is Angelo Bertelli, who has gone under the various appslations of “The Arm,” “The Springfield Rifle,” and “Mr. Accuracy,” but who will probably go down in Irish grid history as plain “Bert,” the man with the automatic arm who has been called one of the greatest passing artists and master quarterbacks to yet perform on the sod.
“Bert” made his athletic debut with the Irish in 1941, the year Frank Leahy gave Notre Dame its first undefeated season since the days of Knute Rockne. That year the “Arm” was slinging the melon in the direction of All-Americans * Steve Juzwik, halfback, Fred (Dippy) ' Evans, pony fullback, and ends Matt Bolger, Bob Dove, John Kovach and George Murphy.
:	Bert’s first collegiate appearance was
■ against the U. of Arizona in Notre Dame . stadium. That day the man -with the ice’ water in his veins calmly stepped back, [14	’	,
eyed his receivers, and pitched 11 out of 14 completions. He was a half-back that year as the team played from the Notre Dame formation, swinging into a box with each shift.
In his junior year, the “Arm” kept passing. With the switch to the “T” formation, Bert found himself in the quarterback slot, although Harry (The Horse) Wright, big No. 4 in the Irish line, kept calling the plays.
This was the year Bert won the “Wrong Train Bertelli” title by taking the wrong train out of Chicago and barely arriving in time for the season’s opener with Harry Stuhldreher’s Wisconsin Badgers. That game was a 7-7 deadlock.
And with Dippy Evans out of the lineup (he’ll be ready for the next game for certain—remember?), Bert started taking over the kicking chores.
This 1942 season, too, was when he started scoring by lugging the ball over on a quarterback sneak. And his pass receivers for the year included Dove, Murphy, the Miller boys, Tom and Creighton, Bob Livingstone, Paul Li-mont, and Creevy (the one without the third “e”).
One of his outstanding passes remembered during the 1942 season occurred at Soldier’s Field in Chicago on Dec. 5, in the closing moments of the Great .Lakes, game. The record shows that Great Lakes pushed the Irish around the first half, and ran up a 13-0 lead by the time the semester ended: Around the stands it was murmured that things
looked bad for the greenshirts and that N. D. was lucky the count stood only at 13.
The second half told a different story. Notre Dame took the kick-off and on the first play. Corwin Clatt, Irish fullback, shook loose and bulldozed his way to a touchdown. Great Lakes took the kickoff and then punted. The Notre Dame safety man was downed. The Horse called for Creighton Miller to handle the ball, and this time Miller romped through the Lakes line, the secondary, and danced down the field to another score.
The count was knotted and there it remained until the final moments of the game when the Irish took the ball. With about time for two more plays, Bert dropped way back, took his usual time inspecting the trademark, (sportswriters said he even had time to light a cigarette), and fired a lo-o-o-ong one to Bob Livingstone. Livingstone took the ball and fell backwards. This play set the Irish in scoring position and while the story doesn’t end too happily, it was a wonderful pass. To clear up the suspense about what happened on the last play, Coach Leahy sent John Creevey, (the one with the “e”, the educated toe artist, and baseball pitcher who was no mean passer himself) into the game. It was a natural spot for a field goal. But at this point someone noticed that there should be 15 yards paced off against the Irish. The 15 yards were counted off, and the final play run. Creevey’s kick fell short.
That brings us up to 1943 when An-
gelo Bertelli enjoyed perhaps his greatest year as a quarterback, was selected as an All-American, and received wide acclaim for his signal calling genius. In a “majority wins” article, Yank magazine concluded that Bertelli was greater than Sid Luckman or Sammy Baugh.
Sportswriters and announcers of the country, in selecting a winner* of the Hiesman trophy, gave Bert 638 votes to 177 for Bob O’Dell, of Pennsylvania, who polled second. Otto Graham of Northwestern was third and Creighton Miller was fourth. Bunning ninth was Notre Dame’s unanimous All-American tackle, James J. White.
The trophy was presented to Bertelli on Jan. 12 by the Downtown Athletic club in New York City.
Moving to the Rockne Fieldhouse, the trophy stands amongst great tradition and worthy company. Centered against the west wall of the room is a bust of
the “daddy of them all,” Knute K. Rockne. Then, there are trophies of Notre Dame’s 1930 national championship team—Rock’s last.
There is a football that is merely painted and reads: “Notre Dame, 35; Army, 13.” That goes back to New York on a cold fall day in 1913 when Gus Dorais, quarterback, and Knute Rockne, end, first shook down the thunder from the sky and called attention to the Irish football team.
Even further back there is.the football used in the game when “Red” Miller gave Notre Dame its first win over Michigan. The score on that reads Notre Dame, 11, Michigan 3.
/
Coming up to the days of the Four Horsemen, there is a football brought from Pasadena, Calif., in a game played on New Year’s day, 1925, when Notre Dame won its first national championship. That football reads: Notre Dame,
And so another Bengal Bouts champ leaves the ring ....
Heisman Trophy Joins Illustrious Company
27, Stanford, 10. To more than the casual observer, the football tells much more. It tells that Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher, Jim Crowley, and Don Miller, with the Seven Mules, completely outplayed the Stanford aggregation led by battering Ernie Nevers and AllAmerican end Ted Shipkey.
There is a 1935 football, too. A memory to Wayne Millner, Bill Shakespeare, Wally Fromhart, Andy Pilney, Mike Layden, and the host of others who made the final score read: Notre Dame, 18; Ohio State, 13. For the sake of remembrance the story behind that ball game tells of Notre Dame behind at the half 13-0. Behind, withonly a few minutes to go. It tells of those last three touchdowns. Of Notre Dame, with the score 13-12, missing the kick, and then coming back to steal the game with another score upon those who supposedly were invincible. It is the story of injured Andy Pilney playing the game of his life; of Bill Shakespeare pitching that last second pass to Wayne Millner; of the second team boys in the line, led by center Pojman, in the dressing room after the game, singing “We’re the first team now”; of the Notre Dame captain, Sullivan, who died before the season started.
Then there is the shillelagh—the trophy fought for between Notre Dame and Northwestern. If you remember, in 1940 captain Milt (Moose) Piepul’s squad lost to the Wildcats, but in 1941, largely due to the efforts of Juzwik, Bertelli, and Bolger, the Irish romped home, 7-6, and have kept the trophy since. Behind that 7-6 score is also the tale of how John Kovatch and Wally Ziemba plotted to block the Northwestern kick for the point—and succeeded. But that is a story for another day.
15
Irish Conclude Hoop Season With One Game Advantage; Revenge Lakes Loss
Notre Da\
Complete statistics were made available today on the Notre Dame basketball season recently completed. In a card of 19 games, eight of which were contested on the Notre Dame court, the Krausemen netted a total of 10 wins and nine losses for a .526 season.
Now You See It—Now You Don't
Leo Klier led the Irish scorers with 117 field goals and 59 free throws for a new individual scoring record of 293 points, bettering Johnny Moir’s 290 mark of five seasons ago. John Kelly came into the contender’s spot with 140 markers while lanky Mike Todorovich amassed 127. Bernie Rutledge, captain and chief foul-maker with 57, ran up a 110 point mark.
Highlighting the schedule was the surprise attack on Great Lakes in the second meeting of a two game series, a 54-51 score being posted in favor of the Fighting Irish. Another exciting chapter in the 19 that composed this year’s volume was the defeat of the highly touted Iowa outfit, 66-42. The Hawkeyes boasted having the Big Ten’s two leading scorers, Dick Ives and Dave Danner, but the wings of these flying basketeers were clipped as Irish fortitude staved-off all resemblances of scoring splurges by the two aces.	'
Hit and Miss
The “on again, off again Finnegan” title was correctly bestowed upon the
Blue and Gold. They won and lost their first 14 contests alternately, finally winning two in a row by beating the NYU quint in New York and then getting even with Great Lakes. Coach Ed Krause, in his first full season as head basketball coach, started off with a combination of Leo Klier and Bud Furman at forwards, Mike Smith at center, with Bernie Rutledge and John Kelly at guards. Three manipulations were made in the starting contingent before Coach Krause was satisfied, finally ending up with Klier and Carl Loyd at the forward posts, Mike Todorovich at the pivot spot, Bernie Rutledge and John Lujack at guards, Johny Kelly took Loyd’s spot when the latter left for the Navy late in the season.
Opening with Alma college, the local eagers routed the lads from the small Michigan institution, 56-32. Next, a hard riding bunch of Western Michigan Broncos unsaddled the Golden Dome boys in a hotly contested encounter, 46-42. This second and even-numbered game on the season’s bill was the starting of an even-numbered mania that was to bring losses to the Krausemen up to and including their fourteenth game.
Bud Foster’s red-striped stockinged Wisconsin quintet were the third visiting squad but left very saddened after a revised and rejuvenated Irish lineup handily gained a 41-31 triumph. It was John Lujack’s first collegiate appearance on the hardcourt, and a debut that showed marked ability for basketball. Northwestern took some of the wind out of a rapidly filling Irish sail at a,48-32 cost in the first Chicago Stadium appearance of the season.
Purdue Downed Twice
Just prior to the Christmas holiday, Purdue came to town only to be slowed down by a rampaging Blue and Gold aggregate that handed defeat to Piggy Lambert’s crew, 47-40. Starting the new year, with not so glorious a bang, a trip to Madison for a return match with the Badgers proved futile as tlie personal foul list spelled doom in a 47-45 encounter that saw Leo “Crystal” Klier nip the bucket for 23 counters, coming within three points of Bobby Faught’s individual game scoring record.
Tangling once again with the Boilermakers at Lafayette, the Irish hit the tally column for 35 counters but that was sufficient to suppress a Purdue cause
that was only able to garner 32. Fast/ ( and furious action keynoted both Boilermaker battles and the officials had con-, J siderable difficulty in keeping the games ’ within the realm of true basketball. t
A trip to “Derby Town” found the 0
eagers on the short end of a 55-54 score. Bill Brannum’s field goal in the final minute of play provided the necessary margin for the “Cats” before a home crowd of over 5,000 in the Louisville Armory.
Bill Chandler’s Hilltoppers came down one week night only to find the situation well out of hand by the time the final gun sounded, the Krausemen having chalked up their fifth victory, 52-46. Inability of the visitors to hit from the
charity toss line and lacking a control f of the backboards was accredited to their , downfall.	(•
Otto Graham and company proved too much in the eleventh fracas of the season as the Wildcats came out on top, 43-36, thus giving the Purple and White a sweep of the series for the first time in 13 years.	.
Valparaiso's Misfortune
Using the heavy advantage of experience, Valparaiso brought a proud quintet to the Notre Dame fieldhouse along (Continued on page 21)
16
me Sports
Baseball Squad is Rounding Into Shape;
Spring Training Carries on Inside Gym
O'Toole Announced as
By JOE MURNANE "Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Bengal Bouts Leader
। It was officially announced today that
Robert O’Toole, former managing editor
e of the Scholastic, had been named pro. 4 motion manager of the Scholastic and j is completing plans for the Bengal feouts.
e O’Toole journeyed to Chicago last e week to discuss the Bengal Bouts with Robert (Red) Lonergan, last, year’s
Bengal Bout promoter, who is now em-
1 <> ployed by the Chicago Tribune. He ex-
1 pects soon to be able to announce the 1 lame of the honorary referee, to carry >r in in the shoes of Barney Ross, Billy ’ Conn, Max Marek, Arthur Donovan, 5 Jack Elder, and other honorary officials I from former years.
r-At the same time it was announced
that at least 70 entrants were working out daily in anticipation of the matches. > Proceeds from the matches will be donated to the South Bend Service Men’s Center instead of the Bengal missions, as in past years, it was also officially announced today.
The matches are scheduled to come off *n the middle of April. Ring arrangements have already been made.
The matches this year are expected to produce some unusual results inasmuch as entrants arc expected from both the Naval and Marine units. Several civilian
students, some with Bengal experience, nave also signified their intention of entering.
Notre Dame’s baseball squad has undergone its final cut to 40 players, save a few here and there who will be cut later if they fail to materialize according to Coach Jake Kline’s present plan for them.
Since Monday dawned bright and sunny, the outfielders have been practicing’ out under the open skies although the terra firma hasn’t proved too satisfactory in view of the spring thaws that have brought about the soggy appearance of the turf. The arched, well-raftered fieldhouse ceiling is anything but the ideal place to hit high looping flies through which the racing ability of the garden boys can more aptly be judged. The outfielders participating’ in the brisk batting and fielding drill were Scarpelli, Mayo, Flanagan, Rutz, and Whittingham. Defensively, they look strong at this early date and the almost certain determinate of starting berths will be dependent upon the batting eye of each of the hopefuls.
Still Within
As for the rest of the diamond squad, they are still temporarily planted in the fieldhouse showing their wares on the mud-packed floor, where the bat of tutor Jake Kline pounds out grounders to the alternating groups of infielders. Coach Kline is reluctant to make any hasty
A Few Fungoes
decisions within the portals of the fieldhouse for he feels that the individual player may make a better showing when he is actually introduced to the- diamond, thus the reason for carrying the double-score of players at this date.
Despite the handicap, the indoor efforts have shown many mid-season maneuvers from such veterans as Tom Sheehan, Bob Klein, Tom Caplin, and Kenneth Manarik. First base possibilities ■ are being contested for among Reither, Marshall, Nelligan, and Fitzgerald; at the backstop position there is Sheehan, Mealy, Long, and Derrico; second base finds Carlin, Archibald, and Siancheppi; shortstop honors are being vied for among Klein, Balbreiz, and Capalbo; .the hot-corner trio of contestants, Manarik, Ciszczon, and Querolo. Around the horn, as well as in the outfield, hitting will enumerate the telltale story of starting positions.
At this early date, the squad is shaping into a powerful offensive and defensive team, pending the pitching potency that will be available by “play ball” time. Current mound possibilities evolve around the names of Barrett, Carson, Duffy, Granfield, Jamm, Johnson, Klier, Lammers, Maguire, Martin, Nedmedik, O’Brien, Phillips, Pisanko, Salisbury, Se-lakovich, Tobleck, and Zieminski. When old man weather gets out of the state of unpredictable, then it can be told.
17
DEAR MOM:
Well, Mom, I arrived safe and sound and have been wearing my ear muffs and mackintosh just like you said to, although one of the Navy sergeants sure gave me a queer look the other day. All the guys here at Notre Dame are swell, especially my roommate, who is named Joe and has been in the Navy for eight months!
He is real kind to me, and has been explaining all the tricks of the Navy like how to shine shoes and make beds and wash down the deck (floor). He even lets me practice these things with his gear (clothes and stuff) and in our room. He says I learn very quickly and should take only about one semester to get everything down right, which is much faster than most people do it, he says.
The Navy is training a whole bunch of officers in special midshipmen’s training. Many of them have commented upon my snappy salute, and several have even asked me to do it over again for them. I have two kinds of salutes. The first is like they did it in the Lives of the Bengal Lancers: I raise my hand like I had a spear (only I really don’t) and click my heels. The other is the plain boy scout salute, like I learned at camp. I usually give the first one, as the midshipmen officers seem to enjoy it more, sometimes giving me one in return.
Well, Mom, write soon, and send some of your cooked turnips, will you? The cooking here is kind of hard to get used to.
Sincerely,
Augie.
INNOCENCE IS BLISS
So that is why the freshmen are so happy! Well, after three weeks of confused existence, you newcomers to Notre Dame have, no doubt, absorbed a little knowledge of our fair campus, and have, no doubt, advanced beyond the “Gee, what a be-ootiful navigation building!” stage. (They should take that ship model off the commerce building).
To further help you in your thirst for knowledge, we herewith present a Notre'Dame dictionary! A ready reference for the baffled neophyte to depend upon and look to in time of discomfiture.
THE FRESHMAN'S FRIEND
By Middleboy Fringe
Arranged for ready reference, in order of which the stuff occurred to me. Copies available on the corner of Wong and Hwang streets, Chungking, China, at 15 cents per edition.
1st printing: 3.
Physics: 1) Depending upon the semester you are in: F-MA or E-MA. 2) Also known as a, b, c, d, or e; and einie, menie, mini mo.
Rock: 1) The big- building at the end of the campus where you take exercises under the name of “Phy-Ed.” 2) The big building across the Dixie where you take exercises under the name of “Tea Dance.” 3) The little round balls that come with cafeteria spaghetti.
Gold Dome: The gilded affair atop the Main Building.
V-12: Victory in 12 years, or we FIGHT!
Room-mate: 1) The guy who eats all the food you get from home. 2) The personality you love to abhor. 3) . . . censored. . . .
(Continued on Page 23)
Just a GJ. Seamstress?
If you’re forever getting out the needle and thread, here are some tips:
When a hutton comes off, sew it on well the first time. A slip-shod joh just means you’ll have to do it over again soon.
Make your next shirt an Arrow. Arrow buttons are attached with a patented stitch, which “anchors” them to a shirt.
Check your size—you may be wearing too small a shirt and therefore causing too great a strain on the buttons and seams. The Sanforized label in an Arrow shirt guarantees shrinkage no greater than 1%—no danger of an Arrow ever getting too small!
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS ■ UNDERWEAR * SPORT SHIRTS
* BUY WAD BONDS AND STAMPS *
18
Football Drills Go On With McKeever In Charge; Many New Players on Hand
Continuing under the Texas accent of backfield coach Ed McKeever, who is acting as head coach in the absence of Frank Leahy who is on a special mission of the War Department, the Fighting Irish gridders are daily exhibiting their wares on the soft, soggy turf of Brownson field.
To date, blocking drills, backfield maneuvers, and a little offensive ball ■ carrying has constituted the major part of the spring program. Halfback Fred Earley has been sidelined due to a leg injury he received last week. Other members of last season’s national championship outfit out daily include John Adams, Frank Dancewicz, Bob Kelly, Johnny Lu jack, Art Statute, George Sullivan, George Terlep, Frank Ruggerio, Bob Welch, Mike Ganey, and several others.
New Men Galore
Fred Rovai, fullback from Hammond,
Ind., who was given a medical discharge by the army after spending part time here as a freshman in 1942, is showing considerable promise of developing into a very capable back, a la Irish caliber. Other freshmen notables include Ray Franklin, halfback from Claremont, N. H.; Emil Ladyko, end from Bridgeport, Conn.; Don Murphy, quarterback from Leo High in Chicago; Bill O’Connor, end from St. Michael’s in New York City; Frank Scafati, halfback from Dedham, Mass.; Ed Musco, tackle from All Hallows High in New York City; Pete Viv-iano, guard from Detroit; Joe Gerity, guard also from All Hallows; Robert ■ Iliff and Jim McGurk, halfbacks from
Montclair, N.J.; Joe Fitzsimmons, tackle from All Hallows; Munzo Marino, halfback from Windber, Pa.; Ted Dorosh, halfback from Philly; and John Mas-trangello and Joe Tasparcelli, halfbacks from Vandergrift, Pa.
Mr. Accuracy Will Be Missing When the Irish Take the Field Again
in the same meet one year previous.
Brad Bennett competed in the sprints but he found the same difficulty that confronted Anderson, too much class, and thus he was unable to garner any individual honor.
Thin Clads Leave Chi Behind and Eye Purdue Relays at Lafayette Tomorrow
By JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Rounding the Turn.... Outdoors Next
Frank Martin ran the fastest two-mile of his career in taking’ second place behind Jim Rafferty of the New York Athletic Club at the Chicago Relays in the Madison street sport palace, the Stadium, last Saturday. Frank finished m 9:20 with a 30-yard margin ahead nf the veteran Joe McCluskey. Ensign Ollie Hunter, former Irish distance star, was unable to make his scheduled appearance in this event due to Naval matters that kept him at his station at Columbia University.
The mile relay team won their section of the five-heat: event, defeating Great Lakes and the Iowa Seahawks in 3:28.7 as Fred Jones, Frank McCauley, Bob Purcell, and Dave Murphy handled the baton-passing- chores! Phil Anderson cleared 13 feet in the pole vault, but equid not earn a place in the field of present and former national champions, led by world record holder, Cornelius Warmerdam, who won the event at 14 feet 5 inches which was over a foot short of the world mark he established
Relays at Purdue
The squad will journey to Lafayette, Ind., tomorrow for the annual Purdue Relays, where the Irish will face the stiffest collegiate competition in the midwest. Coach Doc Handy has filed entries in the distance and sprint medley relays, as well as in the shot put, pole vault, and sprints. This meet will bring together for the second time this season, the Michigan and Irish teams plus other well known contingents and one-man school satellites. Being the concluding indoor meet of the Fighting-Irish season, they will be all out in their efforts to cop a goodly share of the offing in preparation for the outdoor season being planned by Coach Handy.
Paul Lillis. "Mike" and^Coach Leahy (See story on Page 1)
19
By JIM REGAN
PHIL ANDERSON
Great heights may terrify some people but it is lucky for Notre Dame and track coach “Doc” Handy that Phil Anderson isn’t one of them, for Phil has been one of Notre Dame’s most consistent point collectors this season in the pole-vaulting event.
Phil was born on May 23, 1923 in Ironwood, Mich. He attended Ironwood High school where he was a member of the track team and the high school band. ___Even in high school Phil participated in the pole vault but he also doubled in the broad jump.
Upon graduation Phil enrolled at Marquette University.... He participated in freshman track and gained his varsity letter in his sophomore year.... While at Marquette, he made his highest leap of 13 feet, 5 inches._When he enlisted in the Marine V-12 program he was assigned to Notre Dame.____He relieved one of Coach Handy’s worries this season when he went out for track. Phil was undefeated in the indoor season, in the dual and triangular meets in which N.D. competed.
Phil is in the College of Arts and Letters and he expects that this present semester will be his last at Notre Dame for the duration.... He plans to return here after the war, however, and get his degree... He has hopes of becoming a teacher-coach after he completes his education.	.
The Marines along the first floor corridor of Cavanaugh can consider themselves fortunate that Phil went out for the track team instead of spending his spare time in his hobby—music... Phil plays the saxophone, clarinet and the drums but no one here will venture a guess as to how well he plays, for he left his instruments at home.	.
One of the high spots in his vaulting career was reached last Saturday night in the Chicago Invitational Meet when he competed against Cornelius Warmerdam. — Since-Warmerdam is the only . .man in history ever to clear the bar at 15 feet, no one is able to give him much
competition, but Phil enjoyed taking part in the same event with the champion____ Now that the indoor season is practically over, Phil is looking forward to the outdoor season when he won’t have to worry about scraping his back along gymnasium ceilings when he jumps, but will only have the sky to set a limit to his leaps.	~
FRANCIS MacCAULEY
The second runner in Notre Dame’s crack mile-relay team is Francis Mac-Cauley of the Navy V-12 who hails from Brooklyn, N. Y_____ Frank is now in his sixth semester here and is a chemical engineer.... If the Navy moves him, he expects to return after the war to finish his college education.
April 28 is Frank’s birthday and he will celebrate his 20th birthday next month. He attended Brooklyn Prep where he also , was a member of a good mile-relay team.__Frank hasn’t been too active in track the past couple of seasons but he is rapidly rounding into his best form.
When Ralph Pohland was transferred at the end of last semester, Frank replaced him in the relay team.... Frank receives the baton from Fred Jones, and after his quarter-mile passes it on to Purcell.... Murphy rounds out the team as anchor man.... The team has enjoyed better than average success this season. In last Saturday’s Chicago Relays they won their heat against'Great Lakes and Iowa Pre-Flight, two old Notre- Dame • rivals. They close their indoor season tomorrow in the Purdue Relays______ Frank thinks that the relay team may enjoy a good outdoor campaign if all goes well.
Being from “Flatbush,” Frank is a rabid follower of the Dodgers.___Like all other residents of Brooklyn, he expects them to win the 1944 National League pennant.... One of his few regrets is that he probably won’t be around Brooklyn for the ’44 World Series.
Frank hopes to become an ,organic.
: chemist when World War II is over and after he has received his degree.; -
NUMBER PLEASE!
.	(Continued from page . 12)
stalled in phone booths instead of the seat.
The fellow in the next booth is the loving type, he fondles the receiver, strokes the coin box with loving tenderness and he winds up his conversation by kissing the phone. As he leaves the booth he struts by like the little boy who stole the extra piece of' pie from the cupboard.
Now comes the fast eater type. He > carries a coke and ‘ sandwich into the booth. He begins his conversation and pauses after each word to get a gulp of coke and a bite of sandwich. After he finishes his snack, he no longer feels the urge to keep up the conversation, so he hangs up and leaves the booth to some -other hungry man. .
The line waiting to use the phone doesn’t mind the standing in line so much as long as they can watch the various expressions and actions of the fellows using the phones. Moral: Telephone booths shouldn’t be built with glass ddors or people should do their talking with their mouths instead of their faces.
Course to^Open Soon
With weather permitting and reasonably high temperatures prevailing, there should be an early spring opening of the William J. Burke Memorial golf course according to Rev. George L. Holderith. Father Holderith has expressed the desire to open the links sometime around the end of the month or shortly thereafter. The mild winter has contributed to there being a lack of frost in the ground, and if unpredictable Indiana climate will register its approval, then golfers should not have any further worry concerning the problem of “waiting.” . ■
Announcements concerning the varsity golf team will appear in the ensu-
. ing editions of Scholastic. ,
❖	STILL OPEN	❖
*♦* Positions are still open on the ❖
SCHOLASTIC staff for students wish- ❖ •J* ing to write. Those interested are re- ❖ ❖ quested to contact the publications ❖ ❖ office in the Main Building and leave * a message for the editor, or attend ❖ staff meetings Sunday through Wed- ❖ ❖ nesday at the SCHOLASTIC offices ❖
in the basement of Walsh hall.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

20
IRISH HOOP SEASON (Continued from page 16) with an accompanying home town crowd that filled the fieldhouse for the first time in hardcourt history. Much to their dissatisfaction, Loren Ellis’ group of hoopsters didn’t live up to pre-game writeups and fell 14 points short of victory in a 57-44 Irish triumph. Despite the height employed hy the Valpo boys, they were unable to cope with the aggressiveness and speed of the locals.
Playing part of the double bill at Milwaukee, Marquette was able to get “sweet revenge” 60-43. DePaul Pre- ■ Flight was billed for the next encounter but in their stead, Bunker Hill Naval Station filled out only to their regret as the Fighting Irish hung up victory number seven, 65-55.
Consecutive losses occurred when De-Pauk and Great Lakes handed double duty defeat to the Krausemen, 61-45 and 84-48 respectively. The Tars from “the Lakes” added insult to injury by running up their overwhelming margin, but little did they know what was in store in the Irish’s “future reference record.”
OUTFITTED BY SIMPSON	WALINGER PHOTO
Violets Meet Disaster
The annual pilgrimage to Madison Square Garden proved a successful venture as the Blue and Gold pulled out a 59-53 triumph over NYU before 18,000 excited New York fans. The presentation of the George Kebgan Memorial Trophy was made by Mrs. Ruby Kebgan to the winner of the game. Leo Klier was given a trophy by the CYO as the most outstanding player of the game.
Iowa completed the home schedule and also the tenth and final victory for the Irish, 66-42. The final appearance of the season, made without the services of Rutledge and Todorovich, was with Camp Grant in the Chi Stadium. An exbunch of Notre Darners plus a few Chicago court artists located at Camp Grant dealt defeat right off the top of the deck, 63-47.
Naud
I IM IICIHf GkaJuzciefo
— CUSTOM TAILORED —
Thousands of Naval Officers from coast to coast and on every fighting front proudly wear Simpson Uniforms. Our aim is to give every officer such splendid value and service, he will remember. Simpson Clothes for his civilian needs after glorious victory has been won!	•	'



Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Branch Shops from shore to shore assure . you of prompt, efficient service on your Simpson Uniforms, regardless of where you may be stationed.	.
BLUES —WHITES —GREYS
Caps — Accessories
YOUR SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
J. I. HHI H N. Inc.
205 N. Main St. South Bend
“Located just across the street from 'SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK'"

21
This week, it is my pleasure to bring to you Chief Specialist Joe Beck Spann.
Spann was born in Guthrie, Oklahoma (he refuses to give the date — it suffices to say he is the oldest chief with the V-12 boys — he says). He was reared in Guthrie, and attended the high school there. During his high school career, he participated in all four major sports (football, baseball, basketball, and track) all four years. In 1924, his senior year, he was voted All-State halfback. With his athletic achievements, acclaim and his hard earned letters, he graduated from Guthrie High School, and started his higher education at the
Southwestern School of Technology, at Weatherford, .Oklahoma.
Spann was active four years in football, baseball, and track, and one year in basketball (his senior' year) while in college. He earned letters in all sports for each year’s participation. Both in 1926 and 1927, the Chief was acclaimed All-Conference halfback, and in 1927 was captain of his team. Also in 1927, Southwestern School of Technology was Oklahoma Collegiate Champion; and the Chief was the Captain of the AllConference team. The same year marked Spann’s graduation with a degree in Industrial Aits, with Physical Education as a minor.
The next year, the Chief started his coaching career at Canyon High School, which is located at Canyon, Texas. Here he stayed three years, winning the District Championship two years in both football and basketball. Another year, his team lost only one game during the season — that ever-counting game — which put them .out of the running for State Championship (he told me I need not put this in; he said, “It’ll sound like I’m moaning”). From Canyon High, Spann moved to Hollis, Oklahoma, where he was coach at the Hollis High School.
His position here was maintained for
eight years. During this period, the Chief’s teams won All - Conference Championships six years in football, and seven years in basketball. His football team was undefeated three of these years. Added to this record are two State Championships in basketball, and one in track. (This is the only information Spann gave me unrestrained; he said he was proud of that record — rightly so, who wouldn’t be?)
From Hollis, the Chief returned to his alma mater as Director of Athletics and Coach. In 1941, his team won the Oklahoma Collegiate Conference Championship. Spann was at Southwestern Tech when Pearl Harbor was attacked. “The next year most of the boys had joined one of the services,” Spann said, “so I decided to join the Navy.”
He joined in October 1942, and was sent to Norfolk, Virginia, for Chief Specialist School. From there, he was assigned to the United States Naval Training Station at Sampson, New York, where he trained recruits for six months. From Sampson, Chief Spann was transferred to the Navy V-12 program here.
Chief Spann is, undoubtedly, the most modest man to whom your reporter has talked in many a day. When asked for the date of his birth, he said, “These
I a



Over the week-end drop into
The BLARNEY ROOM
The EMERALD ROOM The COFFEE SHOP
I
i
THE OLIVER HOTEL
22
fellows don’t need to know I was too old for the draft, and I am here because I think it the right thing.” Maybe not, but it certainly shows the modesty of this man, Spann.
To you, Chief Spann — all-around athlete and expert coach---we take off our hat!
THE PERISCOPE (Continued from Page 18) Cafeteria Giris: 1) First week: “not bad, not bad! 2) Second week: “Gorgeous!” 3) Third week: “Busy tonight, Evelyn?”
Company Commander: (Due to drive to save paper we refuse to waste any on this subject.)
Great Lakes: V-12 postgraduate school.
A revised edition of the FRIEND is now being considered by Mr. Fringe. If you desire to reserve yourself a copy, write: Cell 945600-2 Two west vaxcqy-skiwitph, Moscozc. Please inclose six yen, to cover cost of handling.
; PINPOINT POISONALITIES
Karl Marshal: Red hair . . . “Rosie” . . . Deck Candidate . . . California . . . women . . . women? women!
y Chuck Hastings: Super wolf . . . NR-i OTC (Ain’t he cute?). ... “I guess women are just naturally attracted to ■ me.”
Joe Haggar: “Blackie . . . Knok it off, mac. (I’d like to). Smile when you say Texas, mac.”
Geo. Wilson Assisting
N. D. Coaching Staff
George Wilson, end on 1943’s professional champions, the Chicago Bears, is assisting the coaching staff in assembling a formidable squad to represent Notre Dame in the fall gridiron wars. Wilson’s knowledge of the “T,” as employed by the world’s professional champs, is very instrumental in aiding the Blue and Gold cause. Another former member of the coaching staff, Bob Snyder, who has since rejoined the pro ranks with his old team, the Bears, was also an instructor whose knowledge of the “T” was beneficially utilized by the Irish in their ’42 grid campaign.
End coach Hugh Devore and line coach Wally Ziemba are at their regular posts attending to their specific duties of singling out worthy prospects that will compose the fall aggregate; but primarily they are issuing their advice gained through experience, giving out inside pointers to the new men, indoctrinating them to the Notre Dame system as well as sharpening up the veterans on the squad.
As soon as the ground gives indications of some solidarity, the gridders will be traipsing to the main practice field within the enclosures of Cartier Field.
Custom Tailored Officers' Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored
to your individ- Jolly Little .	Tailor
ual proportions by expert craftsmen ’ in our own work rooms.
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
23
By JIM FENNELLY
Nineteen varsity athletes have left the campus during the past two weeks, including four regulars from the national championship football team of last fall. ___They have been transferred to various military stations throughout the country for more advanced training... Bernie Crimmins and Paul Lillis, teammates on the undefeated 1941 Irish football aggregation, are again teamed up in a different kind of game. Crimmins and Lillis are currently engaged in the South Pacific war theatre assigned to PT boats.... Now that the cage season has subsided, Frank “the Gil” Gilhooley, thinks he’ll give a blow to the game that made his Dad famous when the latter played center field for the Yankees from 1913-18 and later with the Boston Red Sox.... If “like father, like son” holds true, then we’ll see another Gilhooley in the green pastures on the local scene... Stan Cofall, recently named chairman of the Cleveland boxing commission to replace Tris Speaker, whose term has expired, was captain of the 1916 Notre Dame football team and received All-
American halfback honors that fall.... He was a football monogram winner in 1914-15-16.... When the Great Lakes basketball team ran up 84 points against Notre Dame on Feb. 8, they set a new high in points scored against an Irish cage squad.... The 36 point margin of defeat, 84-48, tied the previous high established in 1914 when Syracuse University defeated the Blue and Gold, 50-14.
The LaRaza Club, the little noticed organization on campus for boys from Latin American countries, has an athletic program that is really going places ____Soccer is its main forte and the boys are all out to bring added fame to the Golden Dome campus.... Last season, due to a late start, only one game was played, that against Culver Military Academy.... This year, six games have been booked, a home and home series with Culver, one with Michigan, another with Purdue, and tw*o miscellaneous games with Chicago clubs.______ Captain Larry Romagosa expects an undefeated season.... These boys outfit themselves and pay their own traveling expenses so it is only fair that the student body get behind these men who are really making the Good Neighbor Policy more than a theoretical premise.... Among the outstanding men on this year’s Wisconsin ring squad is the former national collegiate boxing champion, Dick Miyagawa,
who won the national title at 127 pounds when he was at San Jose State College in 1942.... Elroy Hirsch, all-round athlete at the University of Michigan, proved his versatility in the Michigan-Illini track meet.... Before the event, his entire career had consisted of but two attempts at the broad jump and none in the high jump.... After all was said and done, he went 23 feet in the broad jump, good for a second place, and cleared 5' 10" in the high jump to garner another number two spot... John “Jumbo” Yonakor’s triumph in the shot put event in the N.A.A.U. meet a couple of weeks ago in “the Garden” was somewhat accidental for John was on his way home before reporting to Parris Island to further his Marine training.... Since he resides in the state of Massachusetts, he thought it fitting to stop in and give the New Yorkers a thrill, and such being the case, he took the event with a winning heave of 51 feet. ,
WE TIP OUR HATS TO:
Joe Kelly, junior engineer resident of St. Edward’s hall, for his good showing in the triangular track meet with Marquette U. and Western Michigan.... Joe never tossed the shot before last semester, and his winning heave of 45' 2" indicates that he has championship ability.
Uniforms for
Notre Dame Midshipmen at
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I15^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
THE COMMODORE CAP. expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd. with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin* strap, 10 carat gold and Sterling silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns, at S18.50
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
24
Reporter Finds Bells in Sacred Heart Church Present Interesting History
the most noted being situated in the Bok Tower at Lake Wales, Fla. Among the first in America was the one here at Notre Dame. .
Besides the bells of the carillon there
By SEAMAN BILL BYINGTON
Inside Ringing Job on the Famed Notre Dame Bells
is also a huge bell, the largest of the group, called bourdon from the French bourdonner, meaning “to hum.” The reverberations seem to resemble the humming of bees. This bell weighs six tons and its hanging equipment two tons. It bears no relationship to the others but was intended by Father Sorin to be the base of a carillon of 63 bells which he -never completed. The bourdon is only 55 feet off the ground; consequently, one does not get the full beauty of its tone nor the range of its power. It requires four men to ring it.
iHOLD THAT HAIRLINE!!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL £ SUCCESS DEPEND ON • YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS • APPEARANCE. LET OUR X
TRAINED GRADUATES X EXAMINE YOUR HAIR = AND SCALP. ..TREAT E THE REAL CAUSE OF £ RECEDING HAIRLINE. =
FREE EXAMINATION. = TREATMENTS $1.00.	£
Phone 4-1481	|
i HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP | f»|uiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniitiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiinuiiiiniiiuiiiiiiiiiiiimr«|
No one needs tq explain to a Notre Dame man what a bell is. He knows. Of course, his first thoughts concern those loud demoniac devices which regulate his life by their incessant clanging. What he probably is not aware of are the bells located in the Church of the Sacred Heart here on the campus. Although they are not all heard at the * present time, seeing as how necessary replacement material is frozen, it is only a matter of time before they will be ringing out once more.
These bells have quite a history. They ' came originally from Le Mans, France ' in 1855, - where they were cast in the foundries of Bollet et Fils. The town of Le Mans itself is signficant, since it is there that the Congregation of Holy Cross originated, and more recently, military objectives .were bombed there by the RAF.	.
The bells, 23 in number, ranging in weight from 15 pounds to six tons, were installed in the towers of the first church built here on the campus, and later moved to their present location after the completion of the Sacred Heart Church.	•
‘ Archbishop Purcell of Cincinnati
blessed these bells on Nov. 12, 1856, giving each a name as is customary in baptism. These names are in raised letters on each bell. Individual subscriptions to defray expenses came from people from all over the United States. Those who subscribed from five to a hundred dollars have their names cast on the largest of the bells. There is also on this bell a representation of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception.
There are two systems of bells in the church tower. Those which swing on pivots and are tuned to the diatonic, or sight-toned scale are termed a set of chimes. These are operated by ropes which must be pulled by hand. The other system of stationary bells is called a carillon and is tuned to the chromatic, or harmonic, scale. To operate it requires a keyboard or mechanical device upon which the music is set by means of pegs inserted in holes in a cylinder, much as an old-fashioned music box.
Carillons originally were put in use in Belgium and later in England were brought to a high degree of perfection both in quality of manufacture and refinements of operation. There are many carillons in the United States, probably
WILLIAMS
ZaAieJi
CUT FLOWERS
PLANTS
. — Flowers Wired —
Williams 7^ ^ImuI
West of the Oliver Hotel
25
Stork Report
Mr. and Mrs. Hal Hunter, of New Madrid, Mo., are happy to announce the birth of a boy, Hal Edward Hunter, III, at 8:10 a.m. on March 20, in Epworth hospital.
Hal Hunter is a well known figure on campus, being a senior in the College of Law, and having received his A.B. degree last year. Aside from maintaining his average in the magna cum laude heights, he performs his duties as president of the Law club equally well. His average in the Law school is rumored to be one of the highest. Ordinarily he is known just as “Boss Hunter,” by the dining hall waiters who work under his supervision.
M M M H M M M M H H H M H M H M H M H M M M M H M M M M H M M M M M M M M M M H M M M
APPROPRIATE GIFTS for all occasions
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN ««WASHINGTON
[■JtiiiM nun luiuuiuitiiiiiiiiiiiitmuit   tutu 
i Campus Centenary [
1 Publications |
E Notre Dame—100 Years_________S4.00 :
j	Collected Poems of	:
1 Charles L. O'Donnell---------S2.50 =
[	... at the	Bookstore	|
...................      B
►♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
JOSIE and JIM'S
nJNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CAFE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
H
K
M H
M M M M H M M H M M M M M H H
M M M M

H M M
Hal is a very proud father, and that first day when he went around giving the traditional free cigars to his friends, he had a grin as big as only a new fathei' can have. And good cause he had for it too. The baby weighed no less than eight pounds and five ounces! Coach Leahy is reported taking some interest already. This is even more emphatic when consideration is given to the fact that the baby was reported to have uttered “Nore Da” as his first words.... a clear indication of his college preference.
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
Another potential Miller was added to the Notre Dame athletic roster when a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Miller, of Milwaukee, Wis., recently.
Fred Miller was captain of the 1928 football team. His wife is the daughter of Byron V. Kanaley, chairman of the University’s board of lay trustees, and baseball monogram winner in ’03 and ’04. The new addition to the Miller family has six sisters.
—Al Lesmez
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
50U[hnsehorE
26
Law Club Elects Officers
The Law club held elections last Monday, and chose four new officers for the coming semester. Tom Halligan was elected president, Pat Flanagan, vicepresident; Gunner Hald, secretary, and William Oberfell treasurer. There were 15 candidates running-, and the winners were only one vote ahead of the others in all offices.
Plans have been made for the coming semester, including a Smoker to be held shortly, and when the weather becomes nicer a Law club picnic for the members and their lady friends, which may become an annual affair.
■ MEN OF SCIENCE
(First of a Series)*
The hero of this saga is the late Horace Ulysses Krum, at one time a physics instructor at Notre Dame.
Horace was an insignificant squirt, with little or nothing on the ball. He . had been tagged as “the worm that never turned,” and rightly so, for he ; had all the energy of a constipated turtle, and if turning of any sort required intelligence, energy or ambition, it was not in Horace’s line. Students took a fiendish delight in perplexing- Horace with such sticklers as, “If F equals MA, what does A equal?” and used to tie granny knots in his yo-yo string just because he looked so funny crying. Yes, to see Horace creep into his class in the morning, furtively sniping a butt, was to give him up for lost — for Horace’s >- time was to come. . . .
One Saturday night, Horace—as was his custom—was in the Electrical lab, busily discharging pith balls. He felt gay. Shoving pith balls around changed - the pallid squirt into a different man. Abandoning himself to the mood, he •r whirled about, the lab in a mad, exotic dance all his own, and then, suddenly gasped in pain and surprise—one of his bony knuckles had grazed a point on an arc lamp, and chipped off three carbon atoms. When they hit the floor- (deck, I mean) they shattered completely, with p' a terrific explosion. They were the first atoms ever to be smashed, and Horace had the questionable distinction of being smashed with them.
Thus Horace U. Krum made the supreme sacrifice. ... On quiet Saturday evenings, one may still hear ghostly fingers squeezing the charge out. of pith balls in the E. lab, and if one looks closely enough, the little bits that were Horace may be seen here and there on the ceiling. -
* (And definitely the last!—Ed.)
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... That’s why your call may be delayed.
27
Know Your Navy
(This is number one in a series of
articles concerning the history of the U.S. Nary by Lieut, (j.g.) J. J. Collins).
The history of naval achievements
would not be complete without a brief reference to our peace-time polar explorations. In 1879, an unsuccessful but heroic expedition to the North Pole under Lieutenant Commander G. W. DeLong, U.S.N., was undertaken. In 1886, Civil Engineer Robert E. Peary, U.S.N., began his northern ventures which were finally crowned with success in 1909 when the American flag was unfurled at the North Pole. Later, Lieutenant Commander (now Rear Admiral) Richard E. Byrd, U.S.N. (Retired), made the first airplane flight over the North Pole (1926) and over the South Pole (1929) dropping the American flag at both points.
Before considering the First World War, let us briefly examine the startling naval developments that had taken place in the years 1898 to 1917. The best American ship in the war with Spain was little more than a gunboat compared with the battleships of 1917. Developments of naval architecture had culminated in the dreadnought (1906), the all-big gun battleship. In 1898, destroyers were just coming into use, the submarine was an experimental toy, and the airplane still to be born. Again, a revolution had taken place.
In the spring of 1917 Germany appeared to be winning. When we entered the conflict, the war on the sea was moving swiftly toward a point which was carrying the Allies to the verge of disaster. This crisis resulted largely from the development of new instruments of naval warfare. When Admiral Sims arrived in London in April, 1917, he was greeted with the confidential news that the losses of merchant ships had reached alarming proportions — nearly 900,000 tons monthly. He was further advised that Great Britain would be compelled ' to surrender by November unless this devastating loss was checked. In making his report to Washington, Sims said, “Briefly stated, I consider that at the present moment we are losing the war.”
The United States played a major part in devising and putting into execution an effective system of anti-submarine defense. This gradually restored the threatened life-line of the British Em
pire and made possible the safe transportation of two million American Soldiers to bolster the crumbling military front in France.
Again the familiar reaction set in after the World War. In 1921, the nations met at the Washington Conference and accepted a reduction and limitation cf capital ships and aircraft carriers. (Further limitations were imposed by the London Conference—1930.) A ten-year building holiday was likewise accepted. However, when Japan served notice in 1934, that after 1936, she would no longer be bound by any limitations, the race for naval supremacy was vigorously renewed. In 1936, when naval limitation by international agreement came to an end, the United States found herself in a relatively far worse position than in 1922.
Today, we are in a Second World War, and once more, the Navy is being tested. Out in the Solomons, in October, the U.S.S. Boise, knifing along at 25 knots was paid of a cruiser column, sent to head off a Jap landing. Suddenly, enemy ships were reported on the starboard.
Over the Boise’s telephone, jut-jawed Captain Edward J. (“Mike”) Moran spoke to the spotter in No. 1 position:
Ellsworth's Easter Ties are the best looking colors. In addition, of course, smart designs and a lining that sends wrinkles scurrying. Easy to tie into a perfect knot.
Men’s Shop, Street Floor
	    '"""S i Have your j I insignia on your j i	Stationery	[
1	GREETING CARDS	J
I	TOILET ARTICLES	I
J	PILLOWS	I
I	PENNANTS	]
!	SOUVENIRS	I
I AeAe	1
| BOOKSTORE |
H	BADIN HALL
I..............I
28
“How many ships have you spotted?”
“I have five in sight, sir.”
“Pick out the biggest one and fire.”
These seven words we now add to the oft repeated catalogue of our heroes’ laconic battle phrases. They mirror the tempo of 1942’s savage fighting, they catch the spirit of a confident United States: The bigger they are the harder they fall.
Mike Moran had always gone on the theory that a light cruiser like the Boise, when caught in heavy action, was expendable. Try to stay afloat for 15 minutes and do all the damage you can— that was his plan.
Some months ago, the scarred and
battered Boise limped up the Delaware River with only part of her complement. She looked tired, but proudly and unfalteringly she moved into the Philadelphia Navy Yard. The rousing welcome might be compared to Decatur’s triumphal reception almost one hundred and fifty years before.
Faculty Holds Dinner
A faculty stag dinner was held in the University dining hall Tuesday evening at 6:30 o’clock. Discussion for the evening centered around several talks given by members of the University La Raza club.
Est.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. ' Evenings by Appointment
0...
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
ADMIRAL NIMITZ HONORED
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. -CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
TETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Bend. Ind-
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind-
Last week's SCHOLASTIC carried a late news flash that the Distinguished Service Medal had been voted by the House of Representatives for Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, one of Notre Dame's more popular friends. At the 100th commencement ceremonies held last October, Admiral Nimitz was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University. The degree will be conferred when conditions permit him to visit the campus personally. Following his notification of being given an honorary doctorate. Admiral Nimitz wrote to Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; "I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your very fine letter of Oct. 7, 1943, in which you advise me that the University of Notre Dame, through its academic council, wishes to honor me with the degree of Doctor of Laws. This is indeed an honor which is of the very highest order, and I am most appreciative. Needless to say, I accept the honor with great pleasure and in all humility."
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M-D-
29
Perhaps Notre Dame’s greatest contribution to science and the war effort has been that of the late Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., America’s outstanding priest-scientist.
Father Nieuwland is famous today foi' his discovery of the first practical synthetic rubber and his invention of the deadly gas, Lewisite. He is also renowned as a biologist; he founded the American Midland Naturalist, which ranks among the leading scientific magazines in the field of botany.
Father Nieuwland was a Belgian by birth, but emigrated to the United States at an early age with his parents. He lived in South Bend and there received his early . education. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1899, Father Nieuwland pursued his studies in chemistry and botany at the Catholic University of America. It was here that he became interested in Acetylene, the field in •which his future experiments were to lie.
To Father Nieuwland acetylene was the most interesting of all the chemical compounds. His prime consideration was to throw new light on the nature of this interesting compound. He never ignored any practical products which might result from his experiments. It was uppermost in his mind to effect as many chemical transformations as possible under all types of conditions, in order to constantly make new discoveries.
It was his dissatisfaction with the existing explanations of the reactions of acetylene and his alertness for minor de-
REV. J. A. NIEUWLAND DEVELOPED POISONOUS
GAS —
FOUNDED BOTANY PERIODICAL
tails that led him to the discovery of monovinyl acetylene, from which came the foundation for the first practical synthetic rubber made.
After he had made known his investigations, the DuPont Company became interested in his experiments. This fact resulted in the successful synthesis of “Neoprene.” It was an outstanding example of cooperation between the industrial chemists and the University laboratories. Father Nieuwland’s brilliant research stimulated the then lagging investigation into the possibilities of synthetic rubber. He is therefore responsible for the discovery and development of many other kinds of synthetic rubber, without which we would be so helpless today. For his work he was awarded the Nichols Medal by the New York section of the American Chemical Society, one of the many tributes paid to him for the outstanding research into synthetic rubber.
Although he concentrated on his work in acetylene, his experiments were by no means confined to this subject. He did a great deal of research in the highly dangerous field of derivatives. It was here that he came across the poison gas Lewisite, reputedly the most dangerous known to mankind, at least at the time of World War I. Father Nieuwland was injured by the toxic effects of this gas while he was experimenting, and consequently gave it a wide berth. It came to the attention of Dr. W. Lee Lewis and his group of chemists engaged in the search for war poison gases. Although the government manufactured
great quantities of the deadly gas, fortunately it was too late to be of use in ‘ the war.
Despite his great interest in chemistry and his extensive research in that field, Father Nieuwland is known and . honored for his work in botany also. He acted in the capacity of professor of botany at Notre Dame between the years of 1904 and 1918. It was in this j period that he founded the American Midland Naturalist. He also established the J. A. Nieuwland Herbarium, a col- £ lection of over 50,000 specimens. His ' own special reference library of botany contains a large number of scientific periodicals and rare books, mostly on the early history of botany.
He had a great interest in plant nomenclature, and prepared thousands of I slides which he sold in order to purchase early literature relative to this subject. ' His extensive knowledge of languages, ; including Greek, Latin, French, German, . Belgian, Dutch, and Italian helped him greatly in his studies.	.	,,
Father Nieuwland’s untimely death came June 11, 1936, as he was visiting the laboratories of the Catholic University of America.
Among the many honors he received and positions he held during his lifetime were the Morehead Medal of the International Acetylene Association, the American Institute of the City of New York Medal, the Nichols Medal, and the Mendel Medal of Villanova College. The many patents granted to him indicate the practical value of his accomplishments. He was chairman (1925-1926) and secretary (1924-25) of the organic " division of the American Chemical Society; councillor of the St. Joseph Valley section of this society for many years and was president of the Indiana Academy of Science its golden jubilee year (1934).
Father Nieuwland was also head of the botany department, and dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame. He received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1899, his Ph.D. from Catholic University in 1904, and an honorary doctor of science degree from Notre Dame in 1911.
Notre Dame can well be proud of the achievements of her priest-scientist, Father J. A. Nieuwland. America has reason to be grateful to him, for without his notable discoveries the war effort would be notably impeded. Father Nieuw- -> land stands out as one of those modest and unpublicized men of science whose untiring efforts are directed toward the advancement of mankind rather than their own personal gain.
30
■ At M&x, Adleb -
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913-
FOR NAY? MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
।	We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official
distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled io your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
M850
ftft	HTOA/l
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington	.
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
31
On every front pve covered...with OUR BOYS AND OUR ALLIES, CHESTERFIELD IS ALWAYS A FAVORITE




A FIRSTHAND REPORT FROM A FIRST-CLASS REPORTER
HESTER Fl
TS
v J' 5>B'
BONDS
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Mvebs Tobacco Co.



Chesterfields are milder and better-tasting for the best of reasons... they’re made of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos — but what’s more . . . Chesterfield combines these choice tobaccos in a can’t-be-copied blend that gives smokers what they want. That’s why your Chesterfields really Satisfy. They’re the favorite of millions.
ERNIE PYLE
WORLD-FAMOUS WAR CORRESPONDENT
* BUY*
MORE