NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DOW BlW
on page



time tells the reasons
WHY
IM turning PRO see page & °j this weeks Post
or were these 5victims just
EAST TO Kill?
ONLY ONE WOMAN in this quiet, innocent English village scented murder—cold-blooded, cunning murder. “It*s very easy to kill,” she told Luke Fitzwilliam, “if no one suspects you.” But before she could name the killer, she, too, was struck down. And Luke, just back from police duty in the Straits Settlements, found himself facing a new kind of menace—“accidental” death...You’ll find the first installment of this mystery thriller on page 5 of your Post
Begin “easy to New Mystery Novel by AGATHA CHRISTIE
— wn any college football PUAIimBE™ nm «•   a	they can beat a college e
:n the country
(Signed) George P'Z°”
20 of this week’s Post
Al§() - - -“WHACKY BLONDES BELONG IN THE *'"’*** BRIG!” Captain Martin was thinking of Laura and Dorrit, who memorized sea laws and used them to advantage. Read about one they overlooked, in Moon of EsmiriUada, by Frank Bunce.
ALSOP A KIRTNER’S LATEST CHAPTER ON NEW DEALERS IN ACTION. In We Shall Make America Over, they show you how laws really get bom today, from brain-trust meeting to final fireside chat."
COLOR PICTURES OF MERRY FORD’S 1STH CENTURY VIIIAGF. At Dearborn, Henry Ford has recaptured early America, preserves it as national parks do buffalo and grizzly. Grandpa Town, illustrated with natural-color photographs, shows you what it’s like.	'	*
AND... A new short story by FANNIE HURST, Mamma and Papa... HOLLYWOOD’S BIGGEST HEADACHE. . See Copyright, 1938, by— ... Short stories, serials, editorials, fun and cartoons. All in this week’s Post.

THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188___________________________■
Vol. 72	November 18, 1938	No. 8
Barbara Southard
Will grace the stage. ...............................
IRISH REBEL REVIEWS LAST CLASH WITH 'BLACK AND TAN*
By William C. McGowan
“The idling motor of a British lorry parked near a Dublin curb meant a Black and Tan raid in 1920. A burst of gun shots marked the raided place. And ‘Stop Press!’ shouted in the streets sold newspapers with the story of the raid.” This is the picture Desmond Fitzgerald drew of Irish life in the revolutionary days of 1920, when he delivered his final “Reminiscence” lecture — of a series of three — in Washington Hall on Nov. 3.
“I corrected false reports of the revolution in the world press by printing true reports in the Irish Bulletin, which was published five days in’ each week. But occasions arose when to correct false impressions would have been disastrous to the Irish cause. For instance, newspapers estimated an Irish rebel column of soldiers to number 500 men, when the truth was that I’d seldom seen a column of more than 12 men, and never one with more than 17. But I wanted the British to think we had 500-man columns, so I didn’t correct those figures.
“The one day that stands out most vividly in all that period is so-called
(Continued on Page 19)
UNIVERSITY PLAYERS OPEN SEASON WITH "ROOM SERVICE"
By F. G. Barreda
“Room Service,” John Murray’s and Allen Boretz’ hilarious comedy play that crowded Broadway’s footlights last winter, will be presented by the Notre Dame University Players in . Washington Hall next Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 22 and 23, under the direction of Thomas E. Mills.
Produced by George Abbot at the Cort Theatre, New York City, on May 19, 1937, “Room Service” enjoyed a Broadway run for the remainder of the year, and was recently carried into the screen version featuring the hilarious antics of the Marx Brothers.
Miss Barbara Southard and Miss Gertrude Krause, will play the parts of Christine Marlowe and Hilda Manney.
Other characters in the play in order of their appearance are as follows: Sasha Smirnoff (Vern Witkowski), Gordon Miller (Gerald Hogan), Joseph Gribble (Philip MacFarlane), Harry Binion (Walter Hagen), Faker Englund (Tom Tearney), Leo Davis (Bob Blake), Gregory Wagner (Vincent A. Doyle), Simon Jenkins (William Cotter), Timothy Hogarth (John Coppinger), Dr. Glass (Ervin Stefanik), Bank Messenger (William Mulvey), and Senator Blake (John Collins).
Those who viewed the Marx Brothers’ farce of “Room Service” the past week will get the opportunity to compare their comical performances with those of Gerald Hogan, Walter Hagen and Tom Tearney, who will supply the local skits of Groucho, Chico, and Harpo, respectively. Tearney will perform in pantomime, the lines having been stricken from his portrayal.
Applicants for the SCHOLASTIC staff and those desiring to submit writings for publication are invited to visit the SCHOLASTIC Editorial rooms evenings, Sunday through Friday, between 7 and 8, or room 328 Main Building mornings between 9 and 11, or evenings between 8 and 9.
Actor Hogan
He takes the lead.
iiiiiiiiuiiitimiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiaminuiiimiiaiiiiaaiiaimiuat
FATHER O'HARA ON PAN-AMERICAN COMMISSION
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, was named this week by the Department of State as one of the United States representatives to the PanAmerican Conference which open in Lima, Peru, Dec. 9. Father O’Hara is a recognized authority on Latin American affairs and trade.
His interest in South American countries goes back to his youth when, in 1905, he was with his father, John W. O’Hara of Indianapolis, a member of the American consular service at Montevideo, Uruguay.
In 1906 ill health forced his resignation as secretary to the American Minister and he went to Argentine to recuperate. On his return to Montevideo in 1906 he made surveys for the American Bureau of Commerce.
Father O’Hara is a specialist in Latin American history, and at one time — from 1919 to 1923 — he had charge of a Latin American news service which served 75 Latin American (Continued on Page 22)
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"REVIEW OF POLITICS" EDITED BY GURIAN
THE WEEK	|
s______________________________________________/
By Bill Donnelly
Publication of The Review of Politics, a quarterly dealing with political realties and theories, is announced by the University.
The editor is Waldemar Gurian, and managing editors are Ferdinand A. Hennens and Francis J. O’Malley,
Prof. Francis O’Malley For him, a new job.
all members of the University faculty. The first issue of the quarterly, dated January, 1939, will appear late in December.
Many outstanding American and European contributors have been secured. The first numbers will contain, among others, articles from the pens of Jacques Maritain, who writes on “Integral Humanism and the Crisis of Modern Times”; Carl J. Friedrich of Harvard University, who deals with “The Threat of State Absolutism”; Mortimer Adler of Chicago University who writes on “Parties and the Common Good”; Morstein Marx of Harvard, writing on “Bureaucracy and Consultation”; and Goetz Briefs of Georgetown, who considers “The Proletariat.”
Contributions by Mortimer Adler of Chicago University, Father Delos of the Catholic University of Lille, France, Gerald B. Phelan, president of the Institute of Medieval Studies of Toronto, H. C. F. Bell of Wesleyan University of Connecticut, Pierre Mesnard of the University of Algiers, Africa, Dr. Hans Barth of Zurich, Switzerland, and others, will appear in the early issues. Of course, many members of the faculty of Notre Dame will collaborate. Editorial consultants listed include Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and Willis Nutting.
The Review of Politics, without neglecting the analysis of institutions and techniques, is primarily interested in the philosophical and historical approach to political realities. The new quarterly will be of great help to all who seek to comprehend (Continued on Page 22)
Let’s Be Mud-pies!
It was that cold rainy Monday before the Minnesota game. Most of the football players were having their usual practice on Cartier field, but because of the wet weather, some of them were assigned to work out in the gym. The boys were coming in from outside all caked with mud and soaking wet, and three freshmen in their clean green uniforms in the gym watched them enviously. Finally they could stand it no longer — all three dashed out the door and took a headlong dive into a near-by mud puddle. They rolled and wrestled around in it until they were thoroughly saturated and satiated and then, with happy grins on their mud-smeared faces, they went back into the gym again.
•
Tap of the Week
Bierman might have been on tap (as Badin Hall claimed), but his team was certainly bottled.
Hall Decorations
Cavanaugh Hall, with an innovation of decorations on a horizontal rather than a vertical plane, won the contest.... Friday night Lyons Hall had six green lights over the arch, five of them behind the five letters of the word “Irish,” and one of them behind something about a Tom and a Mint Collins. Saturday night Lyons Hall had five green lights over the arch.... We heard rumors that the Chinese characters on the side of the Old Infirmary had some sinister meaning, but Mr. Soong tells us that the large sign only mean “Beat Minnesota. Notre Dame wins.” While the small one merely said “Welcome Minnesota.” Personally we are disappointed in Mr. Soong for letting such an opportunity slip through his fingers.... Also on the side of the Old Infirmary there was a rather grotesque animal with the rear quarters of a cow and what appeared to us to be the head of a horse. The caption read “this is no bull.” We can see plainly enough the obvious truth of that statement, but we’re certainly curious to know just what the animal was supposed to be anyhow. ... The decorations on Dillon Hall looked more like an advertisement for Fisher Bodies or a picture out of Grimm’s Fairy Tales than an inspiration for a football victory. The only comment we heard on it was by a Dillonite who happened to remark to a friend as we were passing by, “Everybody in the hall chips in a dime and look what we get.”
Slogan Suggestions for the S.A.C.: WHO IS ONLY ONE STEP REMOVED FROM OUR PRESENT opponent?. .. We “Gentlemen of Walsh” were made to feel very proud of ourselves while posing for a group picture on the library steps when a freshman heckler shouted up from a crowd of by standers, “I hope we don’t look .like that when we’re seniors!”
Game Notes
When Lou Zontini made his 84 yard yard touchdown run, Joe Boland, Joe Kuharich, and Harvey Foster jumped up and down so vigorously in the press box that they practically shook the thing off its moorings. All the news reel men were mad at them because they thought the pictures of the run had been ruined by the rocking. ... Minnesota didn’t think they had much to worry about concerning passes, so when Notre Dame threw its first pass they decided to find out if Brown could really catch the ball and they just stood around and watched him.... Between halves the Minnesota cheerleader performed a symbolic dance entitled “Death of the Gopher.” The Minnesota section made appropriate noise in time with his desperate gyrations.__After seeing Notre Dame’s nifty new band-leader perform, we have concluded that the only reason he hasn’t appeared before was the desire to get a bandleader who fitted the old uniform rather than shell out for a uniform to fit a new bandleader... The funniest scene we have ever seen on a football field was that in which those two huskies, Bob Saggau and Larry Buhler, helped each other look for the false tooth which Larry Buhler had knocked out of Bob Saggau’s mouth. We were ahoping to see the 22 players plus the referee and the head linesman all crawling around on their hands and knees in earnest search for the precious object, but unfortunately Buhler found the thing too soon, and after exaamining it minutely a minute, gingerly handed it back to its owner.
Bottom of the Week
That raw Bulgarian potato. And when we say “Bottom,” we’re talking about something pretty low.
A Few Foggy Folk
We heard such startling professions of ignorance over the past weekend that we have begun to wonder about people in general. For instance, there was one sweet young
. (Continued on Page 23)
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
5
SCHOLASTIC STAFF HEARS EX-EDITOR
Jim Kearns found himself in a familial- place doing a familiar job on the night of Wednesday, Nov. 9. For on that evening the former Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic, now a sports writer for the Chicago Daily Neivs, dropped in to the editorial rooms of The Scholastic to talk to the members of the staff. Jim didn’t thumb the latest issue of The Scho-
Jim Kearns
“The place seems familiar.”
lastic, as he used to at the weekly meetings, but he did have a good deal of pertinent comment and advice for the staff members.
Kearns stressed the importance of the personality or “human interest” side of the news, and told how even big dailies that used to cany fake-byfake accounts of pro wrestling bouts are now interested more in whether the defending “champeen” prefers one lump or two lumps in his coffee. This, of course, has been necessitated by the advances of radio in the past few years. Kearns gave Diz Dean as an example of the type of subject the modern newspaperman raves about — the type that comes along in every pay raise. Dean, he said, was one of the few personalities who could hold the front page of a metropolitan daily for a whole week, even with such potent opposition as “the Duke and Wally.”
The occasion of Jim Kearns’ visit to the campus was the Minnesota game, which he covered for the Daily News, His assignment to this game prompted an explanation of the mechanics of a football story, from the moment it takes form on a typewriter (Continued on Page 17)
College Parade
By Fred E. Sisk
N. U. Plus C. U. Equals Same
If you have a choice between a date with a Northwestern girl or one from the University of Chicago during the Notre Dame - Northwestern week-end, the odds are about the same if one can trust surveys. In two surveys conducted recently by the Daily North-ivestern and the U. of Chicago Daily Maroon with 100 girls from each school serving as the “guinea pig,” the following information came to light: 35 from each school contemplate careers after graduation and will give Cupid the “go-by”; 27 others are studying for careers, but with the marriage provision in mind; and 19 only have their eyes on a wedding ring.
Van Wallace at Detroit University
Our Van Wallace, who has seen the past two Notre Dame football games from his specially constructed ambulance, is given an appropriate writeup in a recent issue of the Detroit University Varsity News. Van is taking a sociology course at the Detroit school which he attends each Wednesday evening. His father acts as a secretary and tutor for Van. While Dad admits he gets all of the lecture notes, he isn’t as fast as Van is on text-book reading, because the latter has finished the book, while Mr. Van Wallace is still somewhere in the first forty pages.
—o—
“Aces” in the Parade
Wedding Guest — This is your fourth daughter to get married, isn’t it?
MacTight — Aye, and our confetti’s gettin’ awful gritty.
—Nebraska Aivgwan.
Doctor—I’d like to have a quart of blood for a transfusion; can you give it?
Student — I can only give you a pint. I gotta shave tomorrow.
—Urchin.
Flash! The Men from Mars Have Left
After the recent “Sunday night radio Martian invasion,” Clemson College down in South Carolina counted up their near - casualties and found that one freshman invested his bank roll of $11 in candy to seek happiness before sure death at the hands of the men from Mars; another student fell to his knees and confessed his sins; a third went around shaking hands before the untimely end would occur; and still another dug out a map to keep track of the invasion, and when the invaders were supposed to have reached the street where his family lives, the anxious Clemson student fainted.
ART WORK FEATURE
OF FIRST 'SCRIP'
By Louis J. Essey
Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, made its 1938 debut under the editorship of Frederick Digby last Friday. The smart brown - and - cream cover and numerous illustrations—the work of Don Driscoll and John Webster—liven the issue. From a purely literary standpoint, it is easily the equal of any previous number.
Brisk dialogue sustained reader interest in “Friends Are Made At McCabe’s,” a boy’s-fight-over-girl short story by Edwin O’Connor. Robert Kennedy’s “A Block of Salt” is a richly descriptive sketch of a man half crazed by drink.
“Undset and the Family,” a review by Andrew F. Wilson, stresses the fundamental unity of the family, the durability of the marriage bond and the evils of divorce as revealed in the works of Sigrid Undset. Another article, “Poets in Parallel,” by William A. Donnelly, contrasts the lives and works of two great poets, John Donne and T. S. Eliot. Donnelly emphasized the effect of environment upon their work.
Peter Jefferson tells the half-humorous, half-tragic story of a farm boy and a farm girl in his short story “Different Sims.” Albert Del Zeppo draws sharp characters in “Shades Without Color.” Frank Cunningham discusses the fruitless search of Thomas Mann for life in his treatise “The Quest of Thomas Mann,” and James D. Glaser breaks the run of prose with his poem “Nightfall.”
Paquin, Brown Speak
Samuel S. Paquin, director of the newspaper research division of King Features syndicate in New York City, and Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, were guest speakers at a gathering of journalism students last Friday afternoon in the Library.
Mr. Paquin, who has been associated with newspapers for 54 years, discussed the changes in the mechanical end of the production, and spoke of news coverage, news stress, front page makeup and the use of feature stories.
Mr. Brown outlined the process of “Making a Deadline” for metropolitan sports writers.
NOTICE!
There will be a banquet for those sophomores who attended their class Cotillion, at the Columbia Athletic Club, Monday, Nov. 21.
Off campus sophomores please note.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Our Daily Bread |
Liturgy
The Liturgy is the living Church, i.e., God, through Christ, remaking man to His likeness. Man is a crea-.ture of many moods, an infinitely complex reality. He is especially a forgetting being, one that must be unceasingly reminded and by means adapted to his nature. The seasonal ordering of the Liturgy is an example of this. The Pentecost period held before him the memory of Christ’s resurrection and the abiding presence of the Holy Ghost working unto sanctification. This week with the earth’s largesse garnered and the sun’s warmth receding, the Liturgy comes to a pause on a subdued note. The end of all things, the second coming of Christ in power and majesty, the last judgment, man’s eternal destiny occupy the attention of, the great teacher, the Church. She must not let her children forget. They are distracted, inattentive, seekers after perishable goods. She must insistently, patiently, perseveringly recall them to the everlasting Good that is God.
Mass Calendar: November 20 to 26
First Class, Double, Semi-double, etc., indicates the quality of the feast. V.R. means that a votive or a requiem mass may he celebrated.
Sunday 20—Twenty-fourth Sunday after Pentecost. Semi-double. 2d Collect St. Felix of Valois. Confessor. Founder of the Trinitarians for the redemption of captives. Died 1212.
Monday 21 — Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Greater double. Credo. Feast founded on the tradition that the Blessed Virgin was presented in the temple at the age of three. Dates from 6th century in the East. Introduced at Avignon by Gregory XI, 1372, extended to Universal Church by Sixtus V, 1585.
Tuesday 22 — St. Cecilia. Virgin. Martyr. Double. Put to death in the year 230. Patroness of Musicians.
Wednesday 23—St. Clement I. Martyr. Double. 2d Collect St. Felicitas. Clement, the third, successor of St. Peter, was martyred under Trajan about 100.
Thursday 2k — St. John of the Cross. Confessor. Doctor. Double. ' Credo. Cannelite and great mystical ’ writer. Died 1591.
Friday 25 — St. Catherine. Virgin. Martyr. Double. Profound and eloquent teacher. Patroness of philosophers. Beheaded by order of Maximinus 310.
Saturday 26—St. Sylvester. Abbot. Double. 2d Collect of St. Peter of Alexandria. Bishop. Martyr. St. Sylvester founded the order of Sylves-trines, a branch of the Benedictines. Died 1267.
(Here ends the Season of Pentecost)
HALL DEBATES REACH QUARTER-FINALS
•
This week the Interhall debaters are girdling up their loins for the second round of their battle of words. The stalwart orators who represented Badin, Zahm, Howard, and Dillon have wrapped up their tonsils in coughdrops for another year as they have suffered two defeats and are eliminated.
Dillon went out in a blaze of ignominy by forfeiting to Sorin; St. Ed’s beat Howard; Freshman beat Badin;
Coach Williams
His boys are in the thick of it.
Milt William’s lads of Lyons defeated Zahm. In other results Morrissey defeated Cavanaugh, and Alumni eked out a narrow victory over Walsh. It remained for Judge John O’Dea to steal the Alumni-Walsh show. By doing some fine legal hair-splitting he awarded Alumni a one-point victory.
Schedules for this week: Tuesday, Lyons vs. Brownson-Carroll, and Cavanaugh vs. Freshman; Wednesday, Sorin vs. Walsh, and Alumni vs. St. Ed’s. Next week the semi-finals will be held. Notices, placed on bulletin boards, will state the teams still competing, and the time and place where debates will be held.
STANDINGS
(Lower Bracket)
Won Lost
Lyons ..................  2	0
Brownson-Carroll ........ 1	0
Freshman ................ 1	0
Cavanaugh................ 1	1
Zahm .................... 0	2
Badin ................... 0	2
(Upper Bracket)
Sorin ................... 2	0
Alumni .................. 2	0
Walsh ................... 1	1
St. Ed’s................. 1	1
Dillon .................. 0	2
Howard .................  0	2
—
Radio
By Norbert A. Aleksis
The theory that commercialism affords the greatest publicity outlets seems to have been successfully contradicted on the afternoon of the Minnesota battle. By permitting any station or network to broadcast our home games, Notre Dame is afforded national coverage every Saturday. During the Minnesota game, all three national networks and several independent stations were hooked up for play - by - play descriptions. In contrast, Yale University went “commercial” two years ago by selling exclusive broadcasting privileges in all home games to a sponsor for $15,000. Consequently, Yale’s games are seldom aired nationally by the networks. Notre Dame is thus getting the greatest amount of national radio time by maintaining an “open house” policy in the distribution of broadcasting privileges without demanding c o m -mercial returns. This policy not only provides ’ greater publicity, but also assures the thousands of our scattered alumni of an opportunity to hear the latest Blue and Gold results.
Glances at the nation’s leading sportscasters assembled to do play-byplay during the Minnesota - Notre Dame game: Ted Busing . . . Columbia’s vocabulary ace ... he wore his usual slouch hat and leather jacket with Observer Jimmy Dolan completely camouflaged behind huge field glasses; Red Barber . . . representing Mutual and “the nation’s station” . . . borrowing cigaret from student observer Rob Scally . . . Barber is truly a football technician; Bill Stern . . . of NBC’s Red Network . . . always works with a dynamic mike . . . says he can pick it up easier to follow a hot play when drama rises. Each of the above announcers represents a different type of sports reporting on the air. Husing analyzes the progression of play; Barber observes the technique of each play; Stern builds up the sensational. What’s your choice ?
Seen in the Campus Studio: Walt Hagen, master of mike and mashie, awaiting “On the Air” sign for his sportscast . . . always wears a hat during broadcasts . . . picked Carnegie Tech over Pitt in spite of campus pooh-poohers. That’s going high-fidelity, Walt! Ed O’Connor hastily typing script . . . he’s preparing for his forthcoming weekly campus newscast. Modernair Carl Hunn . . . he’s arranger for that swell band . . . hurrying into the studio with a pencil, a saxaphone, a trumpet mouthpiece and drum snares. He’s versatile with ’em all.
.NOVEMBER 18, 1938
7
JESSYE NEGRO CHOIR SCORES SMASH HIT
By James A. Gonner
One of the accompanying highlights of the Minnesota weekend was the appearance of the Eva Jessye Negro Choir in Washington Hall last Friday night. Their sincere presentation of native spirituals, work songs, hero legends and numbers from the folk opera “Porgy and Bess” received a warm response from the large crowd.
The choral group, under the direction of Miss Jessye, was accompanied by Mr. Robert C. Nolan. The program opened with the tenor and ensemble rendering “Hold On” and “Swing Low Sweet Chariot.” Miss Pearl Bates and the male choir of nine men followed with “Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho.” “Ols Ark’s a Moverin” was presented in true colored fashion with the members of the choir radiating their jubilation “I Stand and Fold My Arms” was a masterpiece in tone color. The first part of the program was completed with two solos by Miss Annabelle Ross and numbers by the male and mixed choirs.
Mr. Nolan so delighted the audience at the intermission with his piano solos that he played “Moonlight” and “Rush Hour in Hong Kong” for encores.
Part two opened with “The Steel Drivers” (I got a mule), “Water Boy” and “Simon the Fisherman.” The latter was cleverly arranged using tone color and talking choir arrangement. It is the tragic story of a Negro who always fished on Sunday.
The hero legends of “John Henry,” the Mississippi strong man, “Casey Jones” of railroad fame, and “My Cabin Door” followed. The latter tells of how a man boasted that he could stand his hard life because he had a happy home.
Since the choir was one of the original groups from the colored opera “Porgy and Bess” the George Gershwin numbers “Summertime,” “The Strawberry Woman” and “Requiem” were an appropriate part of the program.
Before closing the program Miss Jessye introduced the members of the choir to the audience. The sixteen members represented about fifteen states in the union.
The program closed with the Travesty of “St. Louis Blues” featuring Annabelle Ross and the choir.
Only two former Notre Dame stars will pit their teams against each other this week; they are “Dutch” Bergman, of Catholic University, and Larry Mullins, of Loyola of the South.
—
Man About the Campus
V_____
By Graham Starr
Man About the Campus is “Fred McMurray” Thomas Bernard Hogan, of Brooklyn, N. Y., when he’s on the campus. But reports have it that he enjoys frequent jaunts to a neighboring city. He made several long “trips to the printer’s office” during the weeks prior to publication of the Santa Maria, quarterly organ of the
campus council of the Knights of Columbus, of which he is editor-in-chief.
So one of our suspicious scouts trailed him to a residence at 1403 Lincolnway West, and found him spending most of his time there.
The city slicker with the “rippling wave” coiffure has had many a wild adventure out here in the “West.” Last year he tried nature in the raw when he risked his metropolitan life to ride a horse for the first time, and the horse was bareback at that. Also saw walnuts growing on trees for the first time at Cassopolis, Mich.
When he gets out in the cold world, “Mousey,” as he is sometimes dubbed, wants to hang up a shingle decorated with the letters “C.P.A.”
Has a typical flashy background: Xavier H.S., two years, interclass football; Brooklyn Prep, two years, debating; at Notre Dame, interhall frosh debater for the palace, interhall soph football for Morrissey, class office aspirant twice since he motored here with Freddy Honerkamp, also a Brooklynite, lost both times to become, in his own words, not the champion “has been” of the campus, but the prize “never was.” However, he did manage Pete Martin into the presidency of their freshman class. -
Candid angles until the printer’s rule cuts the column:
He sports a cum laude average,
LINNETS GIVE NOVEL VISUAL BROADCAST
•
The Linnets were socially and professionally prominent during the past week-end as they sponsored a freshman dance, in celebration of the Minnesota victory, and staged a visual broadcast from the campus early this week.	']
The dance was held at the Progress Club last Saturday night and was open to a limited number of freshmen. Larry Gent and his band were noteworthy newcomers to Notre Dame social functions.
At nine o’clock, Tuesday night, faculty members, students, and local Linnet rooters jammed the engineer’s auditorium to capacity to see the Linnets take to the airwaves. Long before door-closing time the hall was filled, and many disappointed students were forced to content themselves with dialing the half-hour show which was carried over WSBT.
With a few variations the Linnet Glee Club and band repeated a portion of the successful concert which they presented in Washington Hall a few weeks ago.
This idea of visual radio broadcasting not only afforded a novel type of campus entertainment but also proved to be another factor in acquainting the Linnets with “ether” work. This educative point had been strongly impressed upon them by the encouraging words of Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., on the occasion of their first radio appearance on the Founder’s Day program.
Expert Addresses Club
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Chief of the Section on Thermochemistry and Constitution of Petroleum of the National Bureau of Standards, will speak at the 139th meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, to be held tonight in Chemistry hall.
In his talk, “The Chemical Constitution of Petroleum,” Dr. Rossini will discuss the methods used at the National Bureau of Standards for separating and studying the various constituents of mid-continent petroleum.
admits he likes college, smokes cigarettes whose companies buy most space in his magazine, was assistant editor of Santa Maria for two years (worked up from office boy angle), published a near record of 28 pages for the Santa Maria this month, rooms with Paul Kluding—reason: both take accounting (P.S.: sad to say, all their classes are different), Paul and he are handball fiends. . . .
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Vincentians |
The Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society is in need. It asks you fellows to cooperate with it in its various activities. It primarily depends upon your support; you don’t have to be a member of the Society to do good work for it. The N. D. Vincentians want you to patronize the Walsh Hall Rec room, to put those old clothes into the big burlap bag at Christmas time, and to take advantage of the facilities for bus and airline reservations at 23 Lyons Hall. Some of the oratorical Vincentians will speak in the religion classes and tell you about the Conference. Oratorical, or not, please hear what they’ve got to say.
We certainly do always have the poor with us, but we also have the St. Vincent de Paul Society with us— —and with them. The N. D. Conference is again manned by students and is led this year by President Joe Harrington, Vice - president John Reddy, Secretary Edward Tracey, Treasurer Richard Leo Fallon, Jr., and Librarian Paul Hackman. Father John C. Kelley, C.S.C., founder of the N. D. Conference, is miderator.
Away back at the beginning of the term the N. D. Conference went to work. This was the training season for the mighty elevens that sweep on as smooth-working units, and accordingly members went out on case work to get into condition for the grind of the year—and they went out voluntarily. These men investigate the circumstances surrounding the ills of an indirtdual or a family, and the action of the Conference is based upon their report to the meeting which is held every Sunday morning. A definite need for textbooks that certain children could attend Catholic schools prompted the Conference to provide these books. There are other necessities to be supplied, too; for instance, there are milk tickets purchased for those who cannot afford enough milk. Other members — and there are more engaged in this work than there were last year — chat with the men at Healthwin every Thursday afternoon, and sometimes these men can give the student more news about the team than he had to tell! Big Brother work claims the attention of one member. There are two others — freshmen, by the way — who are cooperating with an older member in the Children’s ward of the St. Joseph’s Hospital. One of these reads to the children twice a week, and at Hallowe’en they were treated to a regular party! Every Sunday morning there are three N. D. men at St. Augustine’s, the colored parish, to instruct in catechism. This church is the pet activity of the N. D. Conference.
CAVANAUGH COPS DRESS-UP HONORS
A committee headed by Senior class president Dick O’Melia awarded first honors to the Cavanaugh Hall entry in the inter-hall decoration competition sponsored by the Student Activities Council. A close second was the brilliantly illuminated display featured by Howard Hall. No third honors were voted, but the boys from the Old Infirmary deserve a word of acknowledgment for their naive and humorous posters.
As a basis for claims to first honors the Cavanaugh lads featured a graphic picture of a gridiron showing the teams that sought vainly to halt the victory-bent Fighting Irish. Before the game a frisky Gopher from the Minnesota stronghold posed proudly before the multitude of onlookers. Within seconds after the final whistle ended the game, the little animal was immersed deeply in his burrowed home. Mike the Terrier deserves no little credit for cornering the canny little beast. On the same theme was the hasty burial given the same animal in the Zahm graveyard. Headstones are ready for a Wildcat and Trojan.
At Howard Hall was a striking picture of Elmer Layden. In his supporting cast the head mentor featured the Irish terrier Mike who posed on the tattered frame of a downfallen “Mighty Man of Minnesota.”
The Old Infirmary captured the fancy of the visitors with a bewildering caption of Chinese lettering, original in that it was horizontal rathei' than the conventional vertical. As would befit a House of Royalty the
First Prize for Cavanaugh
VILLAGERS PRESENT THANKSGIVING HOP
By Joseph J. Miller
At the monthly banquet meeting held by the Notre Dame Villagers last Tuesday evening, President Robert Rodibaugh announced the presentation of the Thanksgiving Dance sponsored by the club. The committee selected includes Carl A. Michels, general chairman; Joseph J. Miller, publicity; Harold Blakeman, music; Robert Schultz, tickets; Bernard Nowicki, arrangements; and Charles Gerard, decorations.
The dance is to be held the evening of November 24, and tickets may be purchased from any member of the organization.
After a short business meeting the club was addressed by Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau and managing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
As in the past, the Villagers have annually presented a Thanksgiving Dance. President Rodibaugh and his committee hope that this dance will maintain the high standard of previous years.
Dillon contingent presented a regal bit of classical art that was mistaken for a stray painting from the Library Exhibit.
In all, the decorations were a big factor in the enthusiasm of Saturday’s guests, and they will remember the spirit embodied in the efforts of the student body. In such bits of lusty initiative lies the background for the spirit that is synonymous with our University.
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
9
Theatre
By R. J. Sadlier
Director T. E. Mills is going about the campus these autumn days with that well-known gleam in his eyes, which means but one thing — a smash hit in the offing. Of course, he won’t come out and say so much, but, then, all directors like to be pessimistic. Reminds me of Elmer Layden, ’way back in September, when he was shedding bitter tears about the team’s prospects. So far they seem to have
Director Mills
A new hit in the offing.
done all right for themselves — just a mere thing like a National Championship practically in their laps.
Last Friday night, a colored musical group from the Broadway show, “Porgy and Bess,” gave one of the finest concerts heard here in several years. It was disappointing to those of us who appreciate good music to see the final curtain go down. It might be said, in way of passing, that southern folk lore, negro spirituals, and Gershwin excerpts never become trite and are a distinct relief from those hackneyed repertoires of everpresent choral groups.
One of Claire Booth’s epics was in South Bend about two weeks ago. “The Women!” This is too late a date to write a review, but I think it might be well to jot down a few observations. The play didn’t even have the saving grace of brevity! As a social satire it was obnoxious! It’s too bad that, when where are so many fine plays which can be done, South Bend had to play host to such a rotten one.
For many years the Granada has been the melting pot of similar entertainment, so possibly one shouldn’t expect too much. And, I suppose some people do like slop!
Notes from here and there. . . . Bob Blake spends his time between scenes teaching Gertrude Krause how to twirl a rope . . . sounds like a new line! Johnny Coppinger is probably the greatest comedian ever to trod the N. D. boards. . . . All he has to do is walk across a stage and he’ll have any audience rolling in the aisles. . . . Vin Doyle is singing an old song with a new meaning these days . . . “Over There! Over There!” ... to which, may I add, mine is still the way of the skeptic.
By Dick Metzger
A distinctive and significant decorative note was recently added to the lobby of the La Salle Hotel in South Bend. It is an oil panel mural painted by Professor Francis J. Hanley of the Fine Arts Department of the University. The panel is based on the explorations of La Salle — for whom the hotel was named.
In 1860 Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle ascended the St. Joseph River with 33 men in eight canoes, crossed the portage to the Kankakee and followed its course downward to the northern branch of the Illinois River. The ultimate end of this journey was the establishment of a settlement at the head waters of the Mississippi River and the opening of a corridor across the continent. The close association of La Salle with this vicinity explains the name of the La Salle Hotel. In his mural Professor Hanley has sought to bring out this significant connection.
His painting depicts La Salle leaving the St. Joseph River for the Kankakee. La Salle stands in the center of the scene in his famous red cape, examining a parchment map while his Mohican guide diagrams the route on the ground. To the far right, leaning on his musket, is “Tonty of the Iron Hand,” La Salle’s mysterious lieutenant; next to him stands Father Hen-
Artist Hanley
Enlivens history with painting.
nepin; while the background shows the Indians setting off for the Kankakee with the canoes and supplies.
In all probability this scene has never before been attempted in a decorative panel. Only 9 of the 33 men in the expedition are shown, yet they are so ably arranged and presented that they depict the entire action.
Professor Hanley painted the oil panel at his summer studio in Rhode Island. The complete work as it now hangs in the La Salle lobby is the result of three months of research and actual painting.
| Music Notes J
By William Mooney
Two years ago Notre Dame was without a symphony orchestra. Last year under Daniel H. Pedtke one was started, but, as I have said before, building a symphony takes time. The concert given at the end of last year must have been discouraging to the director, to the players, and to the very small audience. The instrumen- . tation was hopelessly limited, and the sounds that came forth were discordant and thin. But a start had been made.
Last week the orchestra gave its second concert under Mr. Pedtke. Between these two concerts a great change had been made. The orchestra is larger, the instrumentation is much improved, and, in general, the intonation, interpretation, and musicianship shows a remarkable advancement. Analyzing the various sections we find the strings superior to the woodwind and brass, but the entire group presented a program of such quality as was totally unexpected.
The soloist for Thursday night’s concert was Mr. .Wilson Crandell, a local piano student of Mr. Pedtke. Mr. Crandell displayed technique and confidence which comes only from careful preparation under efficient guidance. He is a fine pianist, and we hope to hear him often.
Special mention also must be given to the string ensemble drilled and directed by Mr. Ingei'soll, professor of violin. We congratulate Mr. Pedtke, Mr. Ingersoll, Mr. Crandell, and the members of the orchestra.
Friday night the vocal ensemble of the George Gershwin production “Porgy and Bess” presented a variety of vocal entertainment in Washington Hall. The singers were under the very capable direction of Miss Eva Jesse. It was the most interesting program we have heard in the local auditorium. The Negro spirituals were deprived of their usual sluggish sentimentalism and were given a remarkable freshness. The “Porgy and Bess” selections are always good but
(Continued on Page 21)	.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL__________________Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY______________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney______________________________Literary Editor
William Al Donnelly________________________________The IFee^
Frederick Sisk__________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr____________________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney Music Notes
Andrew Wilson Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff Introducing
News Staff William C. Fay_________________________________News Editor
F. G. Barreda__________________________Assistant News Editor
John Kohn Harry Penrose
George Haithcock__________________________Joseph Perkins
Thomas Ferneding__________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann____________________________Stephen Smith
John Ferneding____________________________Thomas Marker
Edward Huston Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett___________________________________Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan John Quinn
James Newland___________________________________________John	White
Francis Kennedy Frank	Aubrey
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72
November 18, 1938
No. 8
The Pleasure of Giving
JUST before game time last Saturday we chanced to meet a newspaper man and struck up a conversation with him. In the course of the conversation he said that somewhere in the midst of all that mass of pennants and'fur coats and chrysanthemums were four hundred and fifty orphaned children, the guests of a well-known midWestern philanthropist, who bought their tickets and arranged for their transportation with his own money. Some of those children were from Catholic institutions, some were from Protestant institutions; they were of every conceivable nationality; some of them no doubt cheered for Notre Dame, others for the Gophers. But one thing is so certain that we’re willing to bet our last street car token on it. And that is that those 450 youngsters had -one of the best times of their respective lives.
The altruistic gentleman behind all this has done the same sort of thing many times before, and hence, this story would be nd surprise to his friends. They would say it was typical of him. But for the vast number ©f Notre Dame men who do not know him and never will know him, the story will serve to drive home a point in practice which Notre Dame has been teaching in the theory of the
classroom since the founding of the University. It is the beautiful lesson of Christ-like charity.
—Donald A. Foskett.
To Give Thanks
MORE THAN three hundred years have elapsed since a group of English colonists at Plymouth, Massa; chusetts set aside a special day of Thanksgiving.
The Pilgrims had good reason to give thanks. Their very lives depended on the yield of their crops. Recognizing a Being greater than themselves, they turned to Him in gratitude on that first Thanksgiving.
We have even better reasons for giving thanks. Are not we, in this country, free from political oppression and religious persecution. And have not we, as Notre Dame men, opportunities and advantages found nowhere else in the world. This is only a suggestion of the many things which give us reason to be thankful.
But a true thanksgiving goes beyond mere reasons for being thankful. It springs primarily from the heart, not the mind. For, obviously love is one of the most important elements of gratitude. Therefore, Thursday should remind us not only that on this one day a year a nation turns aside from work to give thanks, but more significantly for us, that every day in the year is a day on which to give thanks.—Mark J. Mitchell
Worth Fighting For
POLITICAL factions seriously resent any alliance between religion and politics. Yet on election day in Chicago they strove to drag Cardinal Mundelein into the campaign by linking the Cardinal’s speeches together in such a way as to infer that he did not consider communism an issue in the election.
One Catholic, William R. Miller of Chicago, was handed a reprint containing a picture of the Cardinal and the slogan, “Vote Straight Democratic.” When Mr. Miller asked who authorized the propaganda the reply was. “The Catholic Church.” Mr. Miller retorted this was a lie, tossed the circular back and later termed the incident “in bad taste and dishonest.”
Other Catholics would do well to display a little of the intestinal fortitude as shown by Mr. Miller. The young layman is too willing to “let the Church answer it.” Sadly enough, the prestige the Church enjoys today cannot be accredited to the zeal of its young people in defense of the Faith.
Without becoming sermonizers, we could use a little of the fiery tactics of St. Francis in dealing with the cynical student who persists in criticizing the Church. The Church, for 2,000 years has given sound answers to the very same problems that face this generation. But the inertia displayed by the young Catholic is weakening the prestige of the Church. The communists are quicker to recognize that there would be nothing better than a connection with the Church, and they are determined, by fair means or foul, to establish the connection.
If political parties are so desirous of a connection with religion, religion must be worth defending wholeheartedly. Indifference, in this case, only breeds trouble between religion and politics. And if trouble arises, we have only ourselves to blame.—Robert B. Voelker.
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
Students Synthesize Symposium
These contributions come from students who attended, in tvhole or in part, the Symposium on Political and Social Philosophy recently held upon the campus. The papers have not been edited save only for some shortening in the interest of space. The SCHOLASTIC gladly welcomes them in pursuance of its policy of presenting all forms of student activity and accomplishment.—Editor.
I.
Unity Amid Variety
Were one capable of assimilating the thought propounded in the lectures and discussions of the recent symposium on Political and Social Philosophy, it is quite imaginable that not a few Universities would consider that worthy of a degree. It certainly was impossible to digest all the ideas presented at the given moment. And yet in that multiplicity of ideas there was a unity that transcended time, nationality and religions. It was the same unity that allowed scholars during the middle ages to converge in peaceful study at the University of Paris despite their differences of nationality and tastes. The Englishmen: Roger Bacon and Alexander of Hales, the German Albertus Magnus, the Italians: Franciscan Bonaventura and Thomas Aquinas, the Brabantian Si-ger, the Scotchman Duns Scotus, and in fact men from every European nation found there a unity greater than their political allegiances. That unity was the recognition of the universality of truth. Etienne Gilson, in his address at the Harvard Tercentenary, said, “... we today have lost that medieval feeling for the universal character of true learning, and the Middle Ages still have something to teach us on that point.”
It seems to me that the bringing together on this campus of so many scholarly men, differing in nationality and religion, to discuss present day problems, exemplified that medieval feeling. These men were invited and came with the feeling that despite their differences it was possible for them to arrive at truths common to all. In this respect, the symposium stood out as a clear cut stand against the idealism of moderns who would have truth as subjective, the product of their mind—a relation of things to mind and not of mind to things. They would have as many different truths as there are different minds. Thus, if the Hitler mind thought force was good it would be true, and if the Chamberlain mind thought force was bad it would be true also. “It’s all in the way you look at a thing,” as the man in the street expresses it. This idealist doctrine, if true, would have made a symposium of this kind quite pointless.	,
It seems that this epistemological fallacy of modern idealism was the conclusion either implied or expressed in all the diagnosis given of the world’s present problems. And the common remedy offered seemed to be the rediscovery and the recognition of fundamental truths as being universal. Thus, if force is bad for an Englishman it is bad for a German and all men under similar circumstance.
The rediscovery of these fundamental truths common to all men, which must be recognized by all men if there is to be peace, is to be found in a knowledge of man’s nature, as pointed out by Maritain. All men have the same nature, and it is in acting according to that nature only that men accomplish their happiness and avoid the misery which now besets the modern world. Man, as Maritain insisted, has a dual nature, distinct and yet inseparable. Man is individual by reason of his material body and at the same time personal by reason of his soul. Maritain also said, and others confirmed with explicit examples, that it was because man has emphasized his individuality and forgotten his personality that man has drifted off the path laid out for him by his Creator. As a result the industrial system and political system treat men in terms of a unit, as a production, consumption, voting or military unit, instead of as a person.
This emphasis on the individuality of man has led to materialism which, in killing personality, kills a community of spirit, and thus love, honor and morals. The situation today is the result of a tendency towards man’s material side -while concurrently his spiritual side has been discarded as much as possible or dragged down to a material level. Not being able to shake himself of his religious feeling, as Gurian demonstrated, man has deified something on earth, be it the state of Germany or economic system in Russia to whom all must bow.
This led to practical considerations of the influences which took man off the path set for him by his Creator and which have led to the de-person-alizing of man. Here many nice questions are brought up.
How much influence did economic conditions have upon the materializing of man? How much influence did -the misconception of man’s nature
play in painting the picture? It seemed that it was a combination of these factors that have brought about the present mechanical evaluation of man. The humanism of the 16th century gave the push that started the slide down the hill, which later economic conditions accelerated until in ’ the last century we have the change from Rousseau’s humanism to Marxism which marked a definite step in the secularization of the western mind, according to Goetz Briefs.
With the humanism of the 16th century man began to look for a solution of his problems within himself, and economic and political considerations took on a greater prominence. Man, emphasizing his human abilities, began constructing Utopias for the attainment of perfect happiness in this world. Consequently the things of this world received more consideration. Man became more and more an individual, and less and less a person, until we have Marx finally basing his philosophy on purely economic considerations.
The acute consciousness of our present civilization to its economic aspect was recognized by the participants and, in recalling to man the presence and needs of his soul, they did not forget the needs of his body. In pointing out to man the philosophical fallacy upon which our civilization is built they did not shout from afar, “You’re on the wrong road!” but rather explained what the right road was and suggested immediate ways of getting on to it.
Hermens, Kerwin and Fenwick presented the direct relationship between economic conditions and dictatorships. Fenwick further explained that there can be no peace unless economic injustices are rectified internationally. Men will fight before they starve, ergo, if we wish to avoid war those that have more than enough to live in comfort must share with those who have not. He suggested that tariff barriers which prevent other countries from securing the goods of those countries that have enough (and we who plow crops under are one of those countries) unless they have gold (which Germany and Italy have not) should be removed. This suggestion will bring forth many questions, not to mention Economists. But what will motivate nations to adopt such a Christian policy if it be not Christianity? Here we come back to the prin
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ciple first suggested to us, the recognition of man, by the economic system and governments, as a person and not only as a consumptive and productive unit.
In regard to man as a person in the prevalent economic system of Industrialism Simon introduced the question of work and the workman. Just what is work? Must work recognize the personal element in man if it is to be a benefit to man? Simon showed pretty well that it must. Then he raised the question whether our industry recognized that personal element in man or considered him as merely a complement to the machine?
Father Michel brought up the question of recognizing man as a person in considering the problem of ownership. He quoted St. Thomas who divided goods into three kinds: necessities, comfort, and superfluous goods. The latter is to be used by the owner only for the use of others, which fitted in nicely with. Fenwick’s suggestion regarding tariffs. He said that our civilization has made ownership the highest value and contrasted this with St. Thomas’s declaration that goods existed only for man’s use — not adoration.
This all set the stage for Davidson’s well met and well discussed offer of Agrarianism as a solution. Agrarianism in pure theory says that the natural place for the human being to develop is on the farm. This raised the question of the necessity of a culture having its roots in the soil. He suggested that the only way a civilization can last is that it be predominantly rural for once it becomes predominantly urban it begins to rot. Under industrialism deeds aren’t moral but are deeds of transaction. Man tends to be just a unit and not a person. This brings up a lot of questions but Agrarianism has history on its side, according to Christopher Dawson in his Progress and Religion, in that once the Greek and Roman civilizations became urbanized they began to deteriorate.
It seems that three courses of action were pointed out during the symposium:
First, as suggested by Adler, each man must change his view of himself, placing his personality on a par with his individuality, and then try to change others because only through others can he attain the common good. Then he questioned whether or not permanent political parties justified themselves in serving the common good. Which engenders other questions.
Secondly, Rulers must try to change men. But in doing so, Desmond Fitzgerald cautioned, they must suit their action to the circumstances. Rulers inherit a deformed people living in a society that is ordered to that deformity, and to change that evil might re
sult in a greater evil. Consequently they must proceed slowly. Fitzgerald probably summed up the general conclusion of the symposium in saying “We should aim at a revolution of citizens (in their outlook upon themselves) and a slow evolution of governments.”
Thirdly, there must be an international righting of the injustices in the present Economic and Political systems as suggested by Fenwick.
Perhaps the greatest good that will come from this symposium is not from the direct suggestions as to wlfat should be done, but rather from the questions planted in the minds of both participants and hearers. These seeds of thought contain within them the germ of further ideas, that may lead to indefinite speculation. It was in the raising of many questions in my mind, many as yet unanswered, that I value the symposium to myself, and it is highly probable that others who attended value it in the same manner.
—Burnett C. Bauer.
II.
Hopeful Outlook
It seems to me that the value of the symposium which lately convened on our campus must be judged, not entirely by its significance to the faculty, but also according to the measure of benefit it afforded the student body. Many of us found its meetings tremendously interesting and beneficial. But it must be admitted that it has given few a thorough and ready understanding of the problems which so profoundly distress our modern world. And, I believe, it could not be expected to accomplish such an understanding; it will be sufficient if we have come away with a sympathetic appreciation of those problems and the desire to investigate them further.
The world which our esteemed visitors have examined is the world in which we must prepare ourselves to move after our graduation; and, to a lesser extent, during these four years at Notre Dame. Whatever its conditions may be, we must come to terms with it. We will have to find our place in this distressed and disillusioned society and face the difficulties which that acclimation entails. We can not run away. There are a thousand things to which Christian men cannot give their approval; there are philosophies which are hostile to our own; there are social, economic and cultural systems which we can not accept. The mere knowledge of world problems forces upon each and every one of us the terrific problem of attitude. Shall we, appalled at the spectacle of the Democratic deficiencies, smash factories? Or shall we turn Communist because the wealth is badly distributed? Many sincere students in our secular universities, after a
perhaps superficial study of world problems, have found themselves at the door of radical change. There are few student phenomena more understandable. But we see the foolishness of accepting the greater evil.
Mr. Kerwin has taught us to be more profound in our attitude toward Communism. Goetz Briefs has revealed the elusiveness of Utopia. Mr. Adler has given us a disturbing problem in the matter of political parties in a Democracy. All the speakers contributed to the realization that we are faced with puzzling complexities, problems which cannot be solved in the next election or in any election. Whatever our ideology, it must be based on an understanding of the historical, social and philosophical factors which brought the world to the present chaos. The remarks of Desmond Fitzgerald seem to me to provide the answer to the problem which we, as students and future citizens, must face. He cautions against radicalism, but he does not substitute reactionism. He pleads for change, but not of the “presto” kind. His approach is sane, careful, and sincere; it is constructive. It seeks to make theory and practice rhyme. We can accept it and move ahead with confidence.
From every point of view, the symposium was helpful. Its very spirit was helpful to the aim of our university. The very presence of those distinguished men in our midst was exciting. We sincerely hope for future gatherings of the same intent and the same edifying success.—G. H.
III.
Candid Critic
The symposium on political and social philosophy has come and gone. In its quiet way it has made a deep impression upon the students of the university. Though the dignified convocation was largely unpublicized, we could not help but feel its tremendous presence on the campus. Whether you attended or not, you have only to read the names of the participants to realize the greatness of the meeting. Many of the keenest minds in the Western World in the fields of philosophy and government took part in the sessions. The presence of Jacques Maritain alone would have given outstanding force to any assembly of philosophers on earth, for his mind is the most dynamic and incicive of our age, and his thought is a vital power throughout the world. The field of contemporary politics and philosophy are also intimately familiar with the figures of Mortimer Adler, of Waldemar Gurian, of Briefs, Simon, Kerwin, Fitzgerald and the other participants. With such men present at the Symposium it stands out as one of the most important events to take
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
place on any college campus in recent years.
I attended the sessions, and even if most of the papers were too profound for me to fully understand, I did catch the gist of their meaning, and feel a wiser man for having been exposed to the most important problems of our time and for having at least listened to the treatment of them by some of the foremost contemporary minds. Having heard Maritain I can better understand the nature of our diseased civilization, now realizing the relation between the exhaustion of Humanism and the ills of our age. From Kerwin I got confirmation to the suspicion that Communism is not the sole evil “ism” in the world, but that Fascism with its civil idolatry is even a greater danger to our state and religion in the West than is the unpopular creed of Marx. Adler gave an interesting insight to the fundamental fallacy of our permanent party system, showing that permanent parties tend to create issues, whereas issues should rightly create parties. He accepts parties for the time as a necessary evil since the alternative of having but one party would mean a distasteful dictatorship of that party. It was Desmond Fitzgerald, I believe, who made the wisest and most practical contribution to the social and political theory of the Symposium. He said, in the face of the present horde of universal reformers and “ism” sowers, that any immediate, drastic, sweeping departure from the old order to a new, even if it be from a fundamentally corrupt order to a good one, could not but in its suddenness occasion more accidental ill and suffering than before.
The last and the least man to speak at the Symposium was Professor Charles G. Fenwick of Bryn Mawr. At the assembly Maritain, Adler, and the other participants had considered the occasion important enough to prepare an address for it, and, then because the matter was sufficiently profound, they read their paper after the fashion of a symposium. Professor Fenwick of Bryn Mawr chose to extemporize. He was quite entertaining. He explained to Maritain, Michel and Simon that if they saw a robber blackjack an old man it was their duty as good members of society to yell for help. He also expounded the theory that if the Smith baby was kidnapped the assembled philosophers should, if they are civic minded, feel righteously sad. I fear, however, that most of the weight of that logic was lost on Mr. Gurian for he stood up from his seat in the front row and left. How I envied the great man’s prerogative! Professor Fenwick of Bryn Mawr continued with his performance, saying that he was greatly surprised when he was driven up the main street of South Bend, “I knew there was a town here, but I had no idea . . . so many buildings and lights!”
Though he stopped with saying that, his speech went on in sense to say: “And I was driven out to Notre Dame, and arrived at the Symposium. I knew you had a university out here — I had heard of the football team — but I had no idea . . . there wasn’t a single football player at my lecture, only Maritain, Simon and Gurian.” Literally, he went on to advise the gathered philosophers to give our excess wheat to China, to trade oil to the Italians for lemons, and in general, love each other among the nations so that International Law will emerge from its eclipse and shine warmly and serenely upon the whole world. Which is nothing but platitudinous drool!
In spite of Professor Fenwick, the Symposium was interesting and exciting, even if viewed only from the aspect of coming into contact with the distinguished and significant men who took part in it.—Egbert W. Blake.
IV.
Spirit Willing
Two days of lectures on political philosophy were rather overwhelming, but I stuck them out; and I do feel that in general the symposium was a success. Certainly we need to have some sort of attempt at stating a philosophy of politics, and the men assembled at Notre Dame were admirably capable of formulating such a philosophy.
M. Maritain’s lecture, wisely and appropriately selected as the opening lecture of the symposium, seemed to me to strike the whole theme of the symposium: the need of a Christian humanism based uppn the person.
Mr. Kerwin’s statement — although nothing new or startling — was something that needed to be said; — and, I feel, particularly needed to be said at Notre Dame. Too many of our Catholic apologists wear themselves out talking against communism — forgetting that the evil of Fascism is probably much more apparent, and probably just as dangerous to a Christian way of life. Often one feels that many Catholics feel that there are but two choices — Fascism and Communism; and hearing the terrible stories of a godless Russia, they chose what they think a lesser evil — Fascism. They forget that there is still another choice — an alternative which may be less facile, less apparent.
Mr. Hermens I found dull. His attempt to make economics less dismal by inserting tailor-made jokes proved entirely hopeless. No doubt he had a point, but in contrast to the other speakers it seemed more or less insignificant and out of place in a symposium on political and social philosophy.
By the time Mr. Briefs spoke I was quite worn out and found it very diffi
13
cult to follow him. In the main he seemed to be sound, but I can better judge when I have read his “Proletariate.”
Mortimer J. Adler, although bogged with a methodological desire to make things clear and to organize his points in numerical fashion, gave one of the most vital lectures of the symposium. I think that he is right when he suggests that we may have need of a completely new political philosophy based upon new concepts. If such a new philosophy is to be formulated in our time, it is not unlikely that it will come from the pen of Mr. Jacques Maritain, whom Adler admires so much.
Dr. Gurian’s lecture, as usual, was characterized by a careful, scientific, scholarly approach to his subject. His treatment was admirable, but — for those who have heard any of his courses — nothing new. His explanations of political religions, however, did make it more apparent that Mr. Kerwin’s statement of Friday morning was important.
It was good to hear Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, a practical politician, speak. After a day of political theory it was, perhaps, good that we should be brought down to practical issues by a man who has had actual experience. I was a bit worried for a moment when Mr. Fitzgerald started decrying the dreadful conditions of slums -r-but when it turned out to be one of his usual interesting stories — told with his wonderful charm and wit — I was much relieved and sat back with a sigh. However, his lecture was far from conclusive — and he did not intend it to be so. Prudence in politics — as in everything else — is- important but we need more fundamental statements.
Mr. Simon’s analysis of the word “work” and “workman” was interesting philosophically and sentimentally. A friend of mine well said after hearing M. Simon that he thought that he was a “philosopher’s philosopher.” After hearing M. Maritain’s brilliant lecture on “Action and Contemplation” I am somewhat doubtful of M. Simon’s distinction — although I do not feel that an agreement between his and Maritain’s conception is incompatible.
Donald Davidson’s was vital and presented in a charming Southern way. Perhaps agrarianism — with its consequent revaluation of the nature and function of man — is the basis for a new political philosophy for which Mr. Adler is looking. I thought, though, that Mr. Davidson’s answers to questions did not live up to the excellent standard of his speech. In fact, some of his answers seemed definitely iadequate.
By 5:00 Saurday I was completely eclipsed, and I could not survive “The Eclipse of International Law.”
—Bene Habens.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
IRISH GO HUNTING WILDCATS TOMORROW; Harriers Take Second NORTHWESTERN LINE. LED BY DIEHL. IS TOUGH Place at Loyola
By Frank Aubrey
The eyes of the nation center on Evanston tomorrow. Notre Dame’s victory march has reached its eighth milestone — but Northwestern’s Wildcats have no ear for harmony and will be trying to throw a discordant note into the proceedings.	.
Northwestern has been practically impervious to touchdowns all year — excepting the “day” they gave Hany Stuhldreher a week ago when , three Badger celebrants sprinted into paydirt. Minnesota and Michigan, however, could dent the Wildcat line very little. Only once did the Gophers reach N.U. territory, and then only deep enough to kick a field goal. Ranging behind the Wildcat line is a big gent named Haman who can, and usually does — slam his 206 pounds into a breach in the line so effectively
Wildcat Captain Diehl
that he piles up the play, interference, ball carrier and all. The first Notre Dame blocker through the hole tomorrow will have his hands full.
Should the Purple line be impenetrable, it will be a decided lack of foresight on Northwestern’s part, for undoubtedly Bob Saggau will have to go back and throw some. On the other hand should Bernie Jefferson and Jack Ryan get any ideas on the subject, the Irish pass defense seems ■ to be amazingly improved in the art of scuttling enemy air attacks. For reference, see Minnesota’s yards gained by passes. Right, a minus six yards.
Northwestern’s probable starting line of Daly and Captain Diehl—ends, Cutlich and Voigts—tackles, Guritz (Continued on Page 17)
Although the Notre Dame team didn’t win first place, two of the school’s crack runners, Greg Rice and Steve Szumachowski, achieved three worthy feats at a cross-country meet of eight colleges held Saturday, Nov. 5, at Loyola College in Chicago.
No. 1 was that Greg and Steve finished first and second in the race. No. 2, they both broke the course record, Rice bettering it by 27 seconds. And lastly, the two beat the Intercollegiate two-mile champion, Walter Mehl of Wisconsin. In fact Greg has beaten Mehl every time the two have met except in the Intercollegiate meet last year.
Wisconsin won the meet with Notre Dame finishing second. Even at that Notre Dame might have captured first honors had not an accident befallen John Martin. In the race Martin’s spikes caught in a board, forcing him to stop and remove his shoe. The loss of time incurred is believed to have been the difference between first and second place for Notre Dame.
Bill Donnelly and Curt Hester were the other two members of Notre’s team. The distance was three and nine-sixteenths miles.
Colleges represented were Wisconsin, Notre Dame, Loyola, Eastern Illinois Teachers, Milwaukee State Teachers, Chicago University, North Central College, and Illinois Normal.
Yesterday the Frosh Interhall Cross-country meet was held. There were five entries from each hall.
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
NORTHWESTERN has defeated Kansas State, 21-0, Drake, 33-0, has tied Ohio State, 0-0, has defeated Illinois, 13-0, and Minnesota, 6-3, has lost to Wisconsin, 20-13, and has tied Michigan, 0-0.
SOUTHERN CAL. has lost to Alabama, 19-7, has defeated Oregon State, 7-0, Ohio State, 14-7, Washington State, 19-6, Stanford, 13-2, Oregon, 31-7, and California, 13-7, and has lost to Washington, 7-6.
THIS WEEK:
NORTHWESTERN plays Notre Dame. SOUTHERN CAL. plays U.C.L.A.
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
15
Introducing
K_____________________________<
By Eddie Huff
Harry Stevenson, Jr., is Notre Dame’s left halfback from Bloomfield, N. J., but he originally hailed from East Orange. Steve did not enter Notre Dame encircled by a nimbus of accomplishments.
It is true that he was picked as allCity half in ’36, that he captained the track squad at East Orange High, and
that he held the state scholastic javelin record with a toss of 170 feet; but it is also true that his first high school coach told Hany that he would never make a football player. The coach was wrong in his prediction.
Steve was enrolled at an eastern university until the first week of September in 1936; and then George Plain, present varsity end and fellow townsman, induced Harry to “. . . come along to Notre Dame.”
“And so,” Steve explains, “without any spiritual inducement or any other incentive, I found myself at Notre Dame.”
Steve is a member of the left halfback “S” club — Sheridan, Saggau, and Sullivan are the others. The New Jersey boy is pressed by one fault; he is ultra-reticent.
Harry, Jr., is recognized as a very valuable “spot” back among Elmer Layden’s possessions. His kicking during the present campaign continues to be superb, and he has converted three extra points in four attempts “to boot.”
Twice, Stevie has thrown touchdown passes to Earl Brown, left end. But one feature of his football picture, clever defensive ability, is somewhat overlooked. The enemy has never been known to pitch passes in (Continued on Page 20)
NORTHWEST'N EDITOR FAVORS LAYDENMEN
By Cliff Jaffe
Sports Editor, the Daily Northwestern
Evanston, Ill., Nov. 17 (Special)— There’s one game that Northwestern is ever aiming at. That’s the Notre Dame clash, the 1938 edition to be played Saturday at Dyche Stadium before a capacity crowd of 48,000 home fans who hope to see the Wildcats win and thus be in a position to term the current season prosperous.
So far, Northwestern has won but four games of seven, losing to Wisconsin, tying Michigan and Ohio State. Chief among its victims is Minnesota. But Northwestern can no longei' point with pride at that 6-3 victory insofar as the Irish whipped the Gophers last Saturday, 19-0.
Saturday’s game will mark the end of the season for Northwestern, and that the Cats will be decided underdogs in the tiff. The Wildcats are not averse to that, however, insofar as they were holding the short end of the odds against Minnesota and Michigan. When they were favored against Wisconsin, the Waldorfmen lost.
Despite the fact that Northwestern played some good ball Saturday against Michigan — far better than that displayed against Wisconsin, the Wildcats from Evanston-way are basing hopes for victory against the greatly-feared Irish eleven Saturday on tradition. These Northwestem-Notre Dame games are always whip-persnappers, and anything can happen.
The Wildcats will be in good physical and mental condition for the game. Only John Goldak, out of the game with a fractured leg sustained two weeks ago, will be unable to play.
This team can rise to the heights, and if they do, Notre Dame may have trouble. But this cannot be counted upon. Northwestern, however, will be plenty determined and angry after the Badger loss and Wolverine tie. They will be out for blood.
When the sun sinks into the west come Saturday, and the new electric scoreboard at Dyche Stadium reveals the final score, this editor believes that the reading will be: Notre Dame, 14; Northwestern, 0. We hope we’re wrong, but fear we won’t be. See you on the 50-yard line.
Horace Prettyman, tackle on Michigan teams in the “80’s,” agrees with “Pudge” Heffelfinger on modern line play. He says: “Heffelfinger is right; a lineman can’t make his charge and protect himself starting from three points as they do now. At least we never could and didn’t.”
PURPLE SERIES HAS THRILLS, UPSETS
•
When the Wildcats of Northwestern invaded the campus in November of 1936 they were hailed as the number one team of the nation. The Notre Dame engagement was their final one and they were expected to trim the Irish without a great deal of difficulty. The Irish, on the other hand, entertained no such hopes, hut they were reminiscing. In 1935 the Purple had come to town and defeated Notre Dame by a 14-7 score. This time it was the Irish who were heading for the national crown, but when the game was over they were not to be found in the column of undefeated gridiron machines. With the memories of this upset still in their minds the wearers of the Gold and
Marchy Schwartz Eight minutes to go.
Blue showed their followers the brand of football which they had expected to see all season, and sent the Wildcats back to Evanston on the short end of a 26-6 score.
Tomorrow the situation is very much the same as it was in 1935 and 1936. The Irish will be remembering that licking of three seasons ago, and with the hope that lightning never strikes twice will be out to win and maintain their position at the top of the gridiron heap. The Purple, on the other hand, haven’t forgotten the trouncing which they received in 1936 and will be out to gain revenge.
The Notre Dame-Northwestern series was begun in 1889 with an Irish victory, 9 to 0. After a lapse of ten years the Irish won again in 1899. This time the Purple was shut out 12 to 0. In 1901 the Irish lost, 2 to 0.
The 1930 game was probably the most exciting of the series. Rockne had his team marching toward its second straight national title. Seven games had been played and won. This was to have been a rather easy game for the Irish, but when the scoreboard showed eight minutes of play left in the final period, neither goal had been crossed. Then Marchie Schwartz went off left tackle for 80 yards and a touchdown. Frank Ca-rideo kicked the extra point which wasn’t necessary, for the Irish put across seven more points before the gun went off.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
We have seen bruising football games before, but never before last week’s victory over Minnesota have we seen Notre Dame look so overwhelmingly, physically tough. The 9-6 win over Pitt and the 14-7 loss to Northwestern in 1935 were powerfully fought, but neither the Irish nor their opponents showed any distinct physical superiority. In 1936 the Irish handed Northwestern’s undefeated conference champions a 26-6 trimming, but hardly a bodily beating. Last year’s game with the Gophers was equally hard on both teams, and in that 21-6 loss to Pitt the Irish suffered severe physical punishment. But in the twenty-four Notre Dame football games that we have seen, we never watched the Irish break down any powerful opponent as they broke down the Gophers last Saturday.
What a contrast in locker-room atmosphere after the game. . . . For the first time this season, the men in blue and gold were really jubilant, smiling, shouting, and singing more happily than ever. And the men of Minnesota seemed more dejected than any other Notre Dame opponent this season. Kansas was dazed and overawed, Georgia Tech and Illinois and Army and Navy were glum but not too upset, Carnegie Tech was sore and disgusted; but the Gophers seemed utterly worn out, completely overwhelmed. Moore, Bell, Rork, and a few others could only squat silently before their lockers, elbows on knees, chins low. Gray-haired Bernie Bierman, hands in pockets, hadn’t a word to say. Larry Buhler, toughest Gopher of them all, came off the field crying bitterly. . . .
•
We wouldn’t be at all surprised if Minnesota did not have the strength to rebound against Wisconsin tomorrow. We would say that under ordinary circumstances, the game would be a toss-up anyway. But with Wisconsin out in earnest for the Big Ten title after many lean seasons, and with Minnesota bruised inwardly and outwardly, we believe the Rockne-systemed Badgers should run right on through to win the game and the championship — while Michigan trims Ohio State.
As for the Irish tomorrow: Northwestern is indeed a team to be feared — but we just can’t lose now! 14-0 or better, we hope.
•
We were one of the many cautious persons who decided that this year’s Notre Dame team, though much stronger on offense, would be weaker
on defense than the 1937 club. But records show that the present undefeated squad is much better all the way around. In 1937 the men in blue and gold at the end of seven games had scored but fifty-seven points to their opponents’ forty-three. This year they have held their opponents to nineteen points, while scoring 140 themselves.
The line put on its best show of the year against the Gophers, the guards refusing to be mousetrapped, the tackles smashing in, the ends cracking up Minnesota reverses and rushing the Minnesota passers to death. The Gophers had a chance to look powerful only on Faust’s long kick - returns. Even the supposedly “weak” men, “stumpy” Joe De Franco and little John Gubanich, kept piling up the line-smashes, bringing Buhler and Christiansen down by the ankles regularly. And it was really good to see “Chuck” Riffle — a 200-pound gaurd at last — having the time of his life in his first game of the year, ruining the Minnesota line in the last quarter . . . He should see lots of action against the hefty Wildcats tomorrow.
•
We suppose it is a shame to have to watch the Irish running attack clicking all over the field, with the realization that a fine passing attack is going to waste. Some of the neatest pass-plays you could see anywhere are being executed more and more perfectly every day out on Cartier Field for the edification of no one but the Notre Dame coaches and student managers. At least it’s comforting to think that the Irish have a practically unscouted scoring weapon to use when they need it. Cheerfully we may tell you that there are countless deceptive variations and supplements to that simple Saggau-Brown play — and they all work quite as well.
•
On a drizzling Monday a week or so ago, three breathless cross-country men came in off the five-mile course to Coach John P. Nicholson with the alarming news that Steve Szuma-chowski and Greg Rice had struck a live wire, and had been taken, dazed and half-paralyzed, into Howard Hall. And “Nick,” as he went rushing toward Howard in his old sedan, must surely have felt that he had lost his two finest distance men. . . . But quite amazingly he has actually gained two better ones. For on Wednesday, only two days after the accident, Steve and Greg were both out doing the
MIGHTY MINNESOTA BECOMES NO. 7
•
Minnesota came, they saw, and were conquered. Out of the northwest came the so-called “powerful” Golden Gophers, to meet a team of the opportunist variety. Three quick thrusts were all that Notre Dame’s team needed to preserve its perfect record and hang up a 19-0 win.
The Gophers slashed their way up and down between the two 40-yard lines to amass a total of 6 first downs, while the Irish, holding themselves in check most of the game, made only two.
The first few minutes of the first quarter went by with little happening. With the ball on the Notre Dame 16 yard line, a smash by Bob Saggau failed to gain. Then Zontini, behind almost perfect interference, broke off right tackle, danced his way to the sidelines, and raced 84 yards for the score. After regaining his breath he stepped back and booted the ball for the extra point. Minnesota, stunned for the moment by the devastating suddenness of the play, fought back with all the power and fury they could master, but to no avail. At the end of the first quarter, Notre Dame led 7-0.
In the second quarter, like the first, Minnesota kept driving toward the Irish goal, but whenever they seemed to get started Notre Dame braced, and stopped the attack. There were but five minutes of play remaining in the second quarter when Notre Dame again struck with lightning-like swiftness. With the ball on the Gopher 47 yard stripe, Bob Saggau faded back and lofted a pass to Earl Brown, who had outdistanced the secondary. Without slackening his stride Brown glanced back, took the ball in his arms, and raced 15 yards to the goal. This time Zontini failed to convert.
In the closing minutes of the game Notre Dame made her final score, climaxing a drive of 37 yards through the air. After completing a pass to Zontini, Saggau heaved an 18 yard throw to Kelly in the end zone, and the score was 19-0.
three-mile route in 14:58 — an alltime record for the Notre Dame course. . . .
• •
. . . We were highly amused by a Chicago Daily News recently, which maintained that Bob Zuppke, Illinois football coach, “bemoaned ball-stealing,” but feared “it couldn’t be halted. stop the ballthieves! is the large headline. ... As far as we remember, we. received the distinct impression that Zup’s own Illini were as good a bunch of ball-stealers as anyone could hope to find. . . .
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
17
Engineers Hear Talk
On Wednesday evening, Nov. 2, the Engineers’ Club and the Notre Dame Branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences held a joint meeting in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
There were two principal speakers on the program. Mr. Eikenberry, of the aeronautical department of the University, spoke on the subject of “Soaring,” illustrating his talk with motion pictures furnished by the Soaring Society of America. Mr. W. W. Jones, manager of the South Bend Municipal airport, chose as his subject “Recent Developments in Radio Aids to Air Navigation.”
The meeting was arranged and conducted by Tim Bradley, president of the Aeronauts, in conjunction. with the Engineers’ Club.
Knights Initiate
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, under the direction of Grand Knight John J. Murphy, held an exemplification of the first degree of the order last Tuseday evening. Assisted by the other officers of the council, Grand Knight Murphy succeeded in presenting an impressive ceremony.
Editor Thomas Hogan of the Santa Maria, the council quarterly publication, announced that the first issue had been sent to all subscribers. This publication has a mailing list which covers most of the states and many of . the foreign possessions of the United States. This issue is considered to be one of the best thus far published, and Editor Hogan and his associates should be congratulated for their efforts.
As the next exemplification of the first degree will be presented in the near future, all students desirous of entrance in the Knights are requested to see Financial Secretary George X. Morris in the K. of C. office.
KEARNS ADDRESSES STAFF (Continued from Page 5) in the press box until it “hits” the street. The actual writing of that story begins as early as Wednesday of the week of the game, when reporter Kearns and others like him, begin to gather all the personal or feature material which we mentioned in the preceding paragraph. From then until the writer hands the telegrapher the last lines of description, Kearns and his brother journalists are busy assembling the story of a 60 minute football game. He chatted familiarly and helpfully with many individual members of the staff for more than an hour while everyone disposed of eats and drinks.
NORTHWESTERN PRE-WRITE (Continued from Page H) and Method—guards, and big John Haman at center, will average 200 pounds. But weight means nothing. Look at Texas Christian; their line averages 212! If the two lines of N.U. and N.D. engage in another brawl such as was witnessed ’mid icy winds and snow last year, the game will probably have to be won on a
AFTER THE BIG GAME
In Chicago CELEBRATE IN THE
COLLEGE INN
HOTEL SHERMAN (ALWAYS FIRST WITH THE NEWEST)
FROM HOLLYWOOD!
BUDDY ROGERS
AND HIS EVER-POPULAR ORCHESTRA
FROM NEW YORK!... the
BOOTS McKENNA GIRLS
AND A THRILLING ALL-STAR SHOW
FROM LONDON!... the
LAMBETH WALK
ENGLAND'S SENSATIONAL DANCE CRAZE INTRODUCED TO CHICAGO BY COLLEGE INN Taught Free . . . by DON AND AUDREY LE MAIRE
NO COVER CHARGE
break. In ’37 Alec Shellogg charged through to block a Wildcat punt, and thus made the break which won for the Irish, 7 to 0. Tomorrow, Alec will not be there, nor will Chuck Sweeney who caught that blocked kick and ran over the goal with it. Let’s hope that this type of a break isn’t necessary, for the ninth verse of that Victory March is already being written. Its last line rhymes with U.S.C.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Record Review
DECCA BRUNSWICK
VOCALION
Gather round you “jitterbugs," “cats” and "swingsters” so that you may be in on the know of the latest releases. There are some exceptional waxings under the DECCA label that should be added to your record library. CHICK WEBB’S “A-Tisket, A-Tasket” has become the national anthem of you “rug cutters.” Ella Fitzgerald, “the dixieland thrush,” warbles this nursery rhyme in her inimitable style, which is always tops. One of the latest of Chick Webb’s releases is “Wacky Dust” which is destined to catch on in a hurry—it features some splendid rhythm work by Webb’s brass section and smooth vocalizing by Ella Fitzgerald. Then, too, Ella has a platter “If You Only Knew” and (Oh! Oh!) “What Do You Know About Love” on the reverse side featuring her “Savoy Eight.”
For you lovers of sweet swing I refer you to CONNIE BOSWELL’S latest offering, “Simple and Sweet," from the new Paramount Cinema, “A Star Is Bom.” The reverse, “Heart and Soul,” is also an A-1 impression in wax. Best of the current Bing Crosby renditions are “Mr. Crosby and Mr. Mercier,” which is a comedy vocal to the oldtime tune of “Gallagher and Shean.” This release will replenish your vocabulary with swing terms. “A Blues Serenade” (which is Henry King’s theme song) and “Mexicali Rose” are two super numbers in which Crosby is at his best—and that is perfect.
JIMMY DORSEY has once again crashed through with “I Haven’t Changed A Thing,” with June Richmond on the vocal. Jimmy rightfully earns the title of Peer of the saxa-phone on this grand recording. The reverse, “Killy-Ka—Lee,” a novelty with J. Dorsey’s great “hide beater” doing the vocal honors. “Glen Gray” and his “Casa Loma” boys have a real hit in their recent DECCA release, “At Long Last Love,” in which Kenny Sargent’s voice is as soothing as ever to the ears. The reverse, “You Never Know,” a swellegant number done up in the usual Casa Loma manner. Still in the sweet vein is “How Can WE Be Wrong” by ANDY KIRK and his Clouds of Joy, with a refreshing vocal by Pha Terrell. “How Much You Mean To Me?” on the reverse is more than worthy of mention.
BRUNSWICK: Kay Kyser, the band with the singing song titles, has come to the fore with another swell release, “Let This Be A Warning To You Baby,” featuring Sully Mason on the vocal, which should appeal to all you scholars of musical knowledge. The reverse, “Monday Morning,” which is one of the season's greatest blues numbers, is taken care of beautifully by KAY KYSER’S canary, Ginny Simms.
VOCALION: Dick Barrie’s music, which is reminiscent of Kay Kyser, seems to be appealing to Mr. and Mrs. Public. His latest disc being “Love Doesn’t Grow On Trees,” witfi Anita Boyer on the vocal. The top notch Vocalion waxing for the month is, “My Reverie,” by Mildred Bailey and her band. Of course Mrs. Norvo does some exceptional warbling on this semi-classic. The reverse, “What Have You Got That Gets Me,” is leading the field in popularity these days.
adv.	IV. J. Mullins.
Varsity Basketball
The Varsity basketball squad entered the last quarter of its second month of practice Monday afternoon, with 20 men still contending for first team positions.
During the past two weeks Coach George Keogan has turned his emphasis from conditioning his charges to the greater task of combining his finest talent in a working unit. This change has necessitated longer practice sessions including drills in free-shooting and ball handling, and general team work. So far there have been very few plays introduced by Coach George Keogan, and the scrimmage sessions have been based on pure fundamental passing and shooting ability.
Next to veteran Eddie Sadowski, “Duke” DuCharme, Lou Wagner, Rex Ellis, Mark Ertel, Gene Klier and Frank Gaglione are the leading candidates at present; Sophomores Riska, Ziggerhora, Smith, Del Zoppo and Gillespie are right behind them. From this material the head mentor must choose a “best five” in two weeks, for the Irish are. scheduled to inaugurate the new season on December 1, when they play host to the eagers from Kalamazoo College.
SEND YOUR VACATION BAGGAGE HOME BY
RAILWAY EXPRESS
RFORD•
That’s the way to vacation in style —with nothing to do but go. Just lock'up your trunk and bags and phone Railway Express. No extra charge—no dickering or doubts.
One easy move. You see your baggage go, and can take your train with a sigh of relief. • Convenient? 1OO%—and economical, too. Our rates are low, and you can send "collect,” if you wish, same as with our "home-and-back laundry service.” When you phone, tell us the time to come.
506 West South Street, South Bend, Indiana Telephone 3-6121	.
RAI LWA^EXPRES S ' AGENCY XX;/ INC.	.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
An added interest will be evident in the coming Freshman - Varsity scrimmages, with .Tommy Wukovits and Johnny O’Connor of last year’s squad tutoring the yearlings.
Interhall Basketball
Competition in the various branches of interhall sports has recently been extended to four fronts. Interclub soccer, interhall basketball, and gymnastics have been the centers of attraction as the interhall soccer league has come to a close.
The first game in the interclub soccer tournament will be played on Sunday morning at 10:00 when the entry of the St. Louis club meets the team representing the Metropolitan club. At present, the St. Louisans are considered slight favorites.
Practice for hall teams in basketball will get under way within the next week. The regular schedule will commence later with the reopening of school in January.
All interested in trying out for a position on the gymnastic team are asked to report to the apparatus gymnasium on Tuesday, Nov. 15, at 3:30. The 1938 competition will be open to all the students.
NOVEMBER 18, 1938
19
LAST FITZGERALD TALK
(Continued from Page 3) 'Bloody Sunday,’ when Irish rebels, to avenge an incident of Black and Tan murder, killed 42 British Intelligence men,” continued Mr. Fitzgerald. “The Black and Tans retaliated then by driving up to a football game in the afternoon and turning machine-guns on the players and on the crowd, slaughtering many of them. Meanwhile the British were searching for me and finally caught me in 1921 while I visited my wife; they brought me to Dublin Castle where they threatened to torture me to get information, and undoubtedly they would have tried had not two journalists protested that I was a political prisoner, not a prisoner of war in the usual sense, and should be held under different authority.”
Mr. Fitzgerald went on to tell how he was then taken to a prison camp, where he organized some of the prisoners for the purpose of digging a tunnel to freedom. The plan failed, however, because a note he had smuggled to Irish headquarters, describing the tunnel, had fallen into British hands. While he waited to be moved to another camp, a release order arrived from London bearing the signature of Prime Minister Lloyd George, ordering that he be released immediately and brought to London. When he arrived in London, Lloyd George
presented him on December 6, 1921, with the Constitution that created the Irish Free State, giving Ireland the right of self-determination and putting her on an equal basis with the Dominion of Canada.
The Irish Free State was far from perfect in its conception, for a civil war broke out almost immediately, forcing Mr. Fitzgerald and other members of the Irish cabinet to sleep in make-shift quarters and hold cabinet meetings at 4:00 o’clock in the morning. Then Arthur Griffith died. He had been the first spirit of the revolution, devoting himself with self-
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
less fire to the freedom of Ireland; and he died as he had lived, penniless, ill-fed, and poorly clad. He had given every shilling he earned to the Cause. Yet Ireland rose from the mess of her birth and flourished; and Mr. Fitzgerald characterizes the present state of things in these words: “Although I am a member of the opposition in the Irish Dail, it will be difficult for me to speak in opposition — there is so little to oppose!”
Travel in SAFETY via
;SOuthnsehor[
Neither highway dangers nor traffic delays can mar your holiday trip when you travel by South Shore Line. You’re SAFE—and save money, too.
/ The Fast \ [ Dependable 1 1 Way To J \ Chicago J
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE A SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
j50UTHNSEH°Re
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Form Soccer Loop
A new soccer league, composed of teams from four clubs, is expected to get under way next Sunday morning, Nov. 20. Clubs planning to be in the new league are the St. Louis Club, the La Raza Club, the Memphis Club, and the Metropolitan Club.
There are two reasons for the formation of the new league. The first is a cany-over intramural sport for the lapse between the completion of the touch football and soccer leagues and the start of the basketball season, and secondly, to create more interest in soccer.
The increased interest in soccer over touch football during the past two years has brought about the change.
Two games will probably be played every Sunday morning in the new league. Site of the games will be Freshman field.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 15) Steve’s zone, and he “saved” the Pitt game last season by cutting Hoffman out of bounds on the 3-yard line after a diagonal sprint across the turf.
Harry, Jr., might be said to get his kicking ability from Harry, Sr., who was a rugby and soccer competitor in England several years back. Steve’s other heritage is his Scotch blood coming by way of his mother who
Compliments of
THE BOOK SHOP
busies herself cooking for three big men. Gordon, Steve’s “little” brother — who is younger but quite as grown as Harry — is the third.
Steve, a junior in the commerce school, plans to enter business in one of New Jersey’s coke and by-product industries. Further than that, his immediate plans call for his running against Northwestern and Southern California in Notre Dame’s remaining games.
130 N. Michigan Street South Bend, Indana

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
STATIONERY
with Name, Address and College Seal
Late Used Records at..15c
Latest New Decca’s at.35c
BAND AND STRING INSTRUMENTS AND ACCESSORIES
“If its Musical — we have it’’
Mack's Music Box
228 North Michigan St.
Specializing in the ex- ' amination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in bur own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
[IISWW
111-117 N. Michigan Street
NOVEMBER 18. 1938
21
MUSIC
(Continued from Page 9) especially when given an authentic Gershwin interpretation. The male voices and the pianist were outstanding, but all were fine showmen as well as accomplished musicians.
On Sunday the 6th, the South Bend Symphony, directed by Edwyn Hames, gave its opening concert. Miss Kathryn Witwer, dramatic soprano of the Chicago Civic Opera Company and Station WGN, was soloist. On the following Tuesday evening the Civic Music Association of South Bend presented the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Artur Rodzinski.
The Cleveland Symphony has everything that a world famous symphony should have. The program included three Chorales by Bach, the Brahms Quartet in G Minor arranged for orchestra, a Concerto for Orchestra by the contemporary composer Starokadomsky, and Der Rosen-cavalier waltz of Richard Strauss.
DENTIST.
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.
The concert was delightful in every respect.
We herein make a plea to the University to sponsor a concert by one of the best symphony orchestras. If the students are ever to realize the beauty of music, they must be given the opportunity to hear the best music first-hand.
fly. .
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot’s license.
The Metropolitan Opera season begins next week. The New York Philharmonic broadcasts every Sunday afternoon. The NBC Symphony with Arturo Toscanini may be heard each Saturday night, and throughout the year the major broadcasting companies average more than a symphony a day. There is music on the air!
_ You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY. •
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo,' $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field	Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
❖
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
In a Class by Itself!
The Arrow New Trump takes all campus honors for smartness and durability.
The long-wearing collar, as tough as it is, is always gentle to your neck, and keeps smooth and fresh all day long. New Trump, like its Arrow brothers, is Sanforized-Shrunk . . . and Mitoga tailored to fit. It’s one of Arrow’s outstanding values at $2.
ARROIV SHIRTS
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FATHER O'HARA'S APPOINTMENT
(Continued from Page 3)
newspapers. As a result of his trip to Panama and other South American countries in 1920, Father O’Hara established an exchange for students among several universities. For a number of years he was prominent in the affairs of the National Foreign Trade Council.
The United States delegation to the Pan American Conference is comprised of twelve members headed by Secretary of State Cordell Hull.
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
in SOUTH BEND, feature these NATIONAL CHAMPION HATS by STETSON at . . $5 to S10
REVIEW OF POLITICS
(Continued from Page 4) the drastic political changes of our time.
The Review will be published in January, April, July, and October. Subscription price will be $2.00 annually for students, $2.50 for all others. Charter subscribers placing their orders before December 15th will receive a special reduction — the subscription price for them will be $2.00. All inquiries concerning the publication may be addressed to the Editors, The Review of Politics, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Take advantage of this offer!
The Lecture* of
FREDERICK JOSEPH KINSMAN
some of which were delivered at Notre Dame in 1935
The first part of this book discusses “Three Points of View: Agnostic, Protestant, Catholic” and the second part comprises studies of “Three Champions of the Faith” — St. Paul, St. John and St. Cyril of Alexandria.
Regularly Priced at — $2.25
WHILE THEY LAST — $1.00
It’s THE Stetson
For Sport Wear
College men who go in for color...dash...and downright good-looking clothes are wearing this Stetson Tyrolean. It’s as outstanding as the Alps.
Step Out With a
STETSON
NOTRE DAK BOOKSTORE
BADIN HALL
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
NOVEMBER 18. 1938
23
THE WEEK
(Continued from Page 4) thing looking over the hall decorations after the game who read one about beating Bierman and then turned to her escort with a puzzled look to ask, “Who is Bierman?” Then there was a Junior in St. Ed’s who not only didn’t know who Wayne Millner was but had never even heard of Andy Pilney. (At least that proves that there is one student who doesn’t read Costin’s column.) And “Sure-thing” Gerend, a Walsh Senior who
makes enough money on quarter bets every Saturday to last him all week and who usually knows the statistics and schedules of every major team in the country, must have had a momentary aberration when he looked up from reading the result of the Northwestern-Michigan game and blandly asked, “Who does Northwestern play this week?”
But this one, concerning an interesting discussion a fellow told us he overheard last week-end in the Oliver Coffee Shop, tops all of them. It
seems the discussion involved three or four Notre Dame students who were actually stumped by the difficult problem of the year of Christ’s birth. Finally one of them asserted with great confidence that the correct year was 33 B.C. A friend of ours who was with us when we hear the story began laughing enthusiastically about it. But suddenly a very quizzical expression crossed his face, and, after a few moments of deep thought, he whispered confidentially to us, “The correct answer is 1 B.C., isn’t it?”
W This year a new car—the Mercury 8—joins the Ford-Lincoln family . . . fulfilling the desire of many motorists for a quality car priced between the Ford V-8 and the Lincoln-Zephyr V-12 and combining many virtues of each. The Mercury brings to a new price field an established tradition — the Ford tradition — of progressive engineering, mechanical excellence and outstanding value.
THE
The Mercury 8 is a big, wide car, with exceptional room for passengers and luggage. Clean, flowing body lines are Lincoln-Zephyr-inspired. A new 95-horsepower V-type 8-cylinder engine provides an extremely favorable power-to-weight ratio and assures brilliant performance with V-type economy. Mercury brakes are hydraulic; body and chassis all-steel. Appointments and upholstery are luxurious. New developments in weight distribution, soundproofing and seat construction make the Mercury an extremely comfortable and quiet car. ... Your Mercury dealer invites you to see and drive this new quality car—a new name, a new car, and a new value for 1939.
FEATURES OF TME NEW MERCURY S 116-inch wheelbase; more than 16 feet over-all length • exceptional width and room for passengers • new 95-hp. V-type 8-cylinder engine • new hydraulic brakes • modem flowing lines • luxurious appointments and upholstery • new soft seat construction • thorough scientific soundproofing • balanced weight distribution and center-poise design • large luggage compartments.
FORD-BUILT MEARS TOP VALUE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, MAKERS OF FORD, MERCURY, LINCOLN-ZEPHYR AND LINCOLN MOTOR CARS
action shots of “Whizzer” White. . . famous All-American football star. . . show what it takes to be a triple threat man.



. that’s the reason Chesterfield stands out from the others The reason Chesterfield is different is because it combines the smoking qualities of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos in one cigarette.
It’s the right combination of these tobaccos ... mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish, rolled in pure cigarette paper... that makes Chesterfield a better cigarette for you to smoke . .. milder and bettertasting.
Chesterfield
"Jhe blend that can’t be copied
...Bright combination	copyright 1938.
world’s best cigarette tobaccos