
/ > i’V ’y.«<!
w
w
• 4asqv/«
AjVv* w
l““
I
iii






, .....................
5
R»

'*” IV^KU
*»>



p«sget>
" •' • *''J ^WW

i>
oil

w
.... ja rf&SW ®Wt i-SA'-i-V-^
Ms
e ”-vli b ^ll “.





Aisy w

awww
;WB ww wife
t- . >.*'t«< : trr<c
::jpw''®h£t,: iSv .^VW^Sfefc

psijssg
BO


sf;'^^®


TAKE A COOL HASPEL
WASH *Na WEAR
SUIT HOME WITH
YOU THIS SUMMER
$39.75
On the Campus—Notre Dame
Wherever you go, whatever you do this summer, 'you’ll say that your Haspel Wash ’N’ Wear suit is the best friend you have! Cool, well-tailored, smart looking, and when it needs freshening, toss it in the washer, let it drip-dry, and you’re ready to go again — with no pressing needed. Popular dark or light shades, and smartly priced too, at just . . .
GET WHAT YOU NEED FOR THIS SUMMER
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY
Cool suits, cool sportswear, beach wear,
clothes for work, dress or play . . . whatever
your clothing needs may be for summer,
may be purchased now and chained the
PAY
Campus Shop way. . Pay one-third in
AUG
July, one-third in August, and one-third in
September. It’s that simple — and there are
PAY 1
no carrying or extra charges to pay for this convenience. So stock up now for summer
at the Campus Shop and “Charge it!”
On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
May23, 1958
The Notre Dome
HONEYMOON - FISH ■ VACATION at Y-Z LODGE
Duncan Hines Recommended
Special May - June Rates
American Plan $7.00 up Daily Motel Plan $2.00 up Daily
P. O. St. Germain, Wis	Phone Sayner 2431
Scholastic
Vol. 99 May 23, 1958 No. 24
Disce Quad Semper Victurus Vive Quad Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
HU. iQn’f”
II Ivll I necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Gleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS UNE
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS_________________New Editor
HARRY McKEE ___________________ Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY-------------------Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK_____________Sports Editor " BOB WILLIAMS_________________Photography
LORAN SHEFFER---------Business Manager MIKE KURAS------------Assistant Business JOE DEZELAN-----------Circulation	Manager	*
WALT RUDGE _________________Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH________________Assistant Copy BILL CONWAY______________Assistant Copy	f
TOM EDWARDS_______________Assistant	Features	i
TOM LAMONT________________Assistant	Features	j
BOB SEDLACK_______________Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH________________Assistant Sports TED THOMPSON ______________Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken ,, Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob ' Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn . , Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim ‘ O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg t' Rogen.	I
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.	1
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jaa. 17; Na. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 26; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
The Scholastic

a suggestion
I AST SATURDAY night the seniors were granted one o’clock a permissions for the Senior Ball week end. This was an unprecedented move made by the Administration after considerable thought. It indicated that the Administration is constantly aware of the needs and desires of the students. If these problems are brought to their attention in a prudent matter they likely will be heard and considered.
Senior classes had tried before to get the late permission on the night after the dance. The problem was nothing new. But, rules and policies will never be changed over night. A glance through old copies of the Scholastic shows that student leaders dien were asking for the same things that we are right now. For many years, they were trying to get midnight lights for seniors. Only within the last three years was this granted. Twenty-five years ago, a student here got two midnights a month.
These are only a few examples but it points out that the Administration is aware of the changing times, it will listen to the students’ ideas and it will grant the students their wishes.
This is not to advocate new policy changes. The point • to be made here is in the form of a suggestion to the student leaders and the heads of the various publications who will take over their respective jobs next fall. You cannot expect results immediately. Because you are turned down does not I give you the right to crucify verbally members of the Administration either on or off the record. Remember, many before you have been turned down. Their reaction in most cases J was to take up the problem again — in a prudent manner, i The signs of progress show that they eventually succeeded. ’ But, they never got anywhere by ranting and raving. ( Those of you who demand and expect immediate action next year will not get it. You will do more harm than good. It is even possible that you will ruin it for those who follow you. This year, the editorial pages of this magazine were ■’ scrutinized very closely by the Powers over in the Main Building because of many unhappy incidents in last year’s magazine. Imprudence was the cause of it all.
Next year, you can lay the ground work for many improvements in the academic and social life. You can also continue the work of those who came before you. You may finally succeed in some matters. Congratulations, if you do. Do not use results as the criteria for deciding whether you did a good job or not Acting as an intelligent college man is all that can be asked of you. If you can do this, your job will be well done.
-J.G.
a farewell
A fter four years the end is in sight for the Class of Ik 1958 and we will soon be leaving the somewhat sheltered existence of college life. Many of us will leave Notre Dame with a critical attitude toward things with which we have come in contact here. In many cases this criticism results from a sincere desire to see Notre Dame become one of the best colleges in the country and not just the best Catholic college. If we did not feel that the potential was here we would not bother with our comments.
As with every institution many things at Notre Dame easily lend themselves to criticism: the almost inherent slowness with which any administration must act; the natural desire of a Catholic institution to preserve all traditions indiscriminately; and the fear of American colleges to become controversial. And then there are many things peculiar to Notre Dame: the need to improve die religion courses; recognition of the demands for all night lights and permanent hall residence; re-evaluation of disciplinary measures such as morning checks; and so many other things. (Yet in many cases, without our knowledge, the University is considering these things.)
But it is not the University Administration alone which needs criticism. The students too are part of the University, something which they sometimes seem to forget (and again at times because of a similar neglect on the part of the Administration). Many students want to be spoon-fed everything and they are quite content to get by with as little work as possible. They are quite afraid to get involved in anything, especially their studies.
No, all is not perfect at Notre Dame and it never will be. There is definitely room for possible improvements which would greatly increase Notre Dame’s stature and make this school a more maturing and intellectual experience. We hope it will be better thirty years from now when we will probably have dim memories of the “bad things.” (Although I seriously doubt whether we would mind at ali if the disciplinary rules are a little more relaxed and fair when and if cur sons come here.) And we will remember the “good things” with a clarity that may sometimes not conform to what is presently reality.
* * *
I would like now to publicly thank all die many people who have helped the Scholastic staff so much this past year: Father James Norton, the vice-president of student affairs; Father Frederick Barr, our faculty adviser; Mr. John DeFant and Mrs. Peg Burke of the University Press; Brother William, Del, Gene, Dwight, Mr. Douglas and all the people at the Ave Maria Press; and all die many other people who I simply cannot mention for lade of space.
—J.S.
5
May 23, 1958
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRZ DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
ON THE COVER: Dick O’Brien has drawn a symbolic representation of the flame of knowledge, which should serve as our guide to truth while we are at college. Captured in the flames are the seven liberal arts, the sources of knowledge.
Cramming for Exams?
from our University Shop COLORFUL SUMMER CLOTHING that is cool, lightweight, practical
Wash and Wear Dacron-and-Cotton Cord Suits in Blue or Grey Stripes on Whitet $42
Washable Tan or Olive Dacron-and-Cotton Poplin Suitst $42 India Madras Odd JacketSy $35 Cotton Seersucker Odd JacketSy $21.50 Odd Trousers in Poplin, ChinOy Dacron-Rayon-and-Mohair or Lightweight Dacron-and- Worsted, $ 10.50 to $ 19.50
Khaki, Navy, White or Red Cotton Bermuda Sharts, $ 10
And beachwear, sport and polo shirts, shoesy etc.
Jackets and Suits: regulars, 3 5 to 42; Trousers, 29 to 34 - longs and shorts, 36 to 42	Shorts, 29 to 34
Fight “Book Fatigue" Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.** You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
liens fhraisbtngs.Qate^
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES « SAN FRANCISCO
Dorms) 60 tablets—
SAFI AS COFFEE
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
mm UBUIYui INK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and
Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
The Scholastic
farewell...
in jest
► -
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
Well, here it is, the last one, and our final opportunity to see oui- names in print. With all of you breathing sighs of relief and making silent thanksgivings at our leaving, we’d like to say a few words in parting.
Some have accused us of being nasty, sordid, cynical, snide, uncouth, and ,* illiterate (separately and collectively).
To these accusations we would like to say . . . YOU’RE RIGHT! It’s not that we mean, to be, it’s just that we don’t know any better. However, since this is the last column and we’re beginning to feel pangs of nostalgia (or is it heartburn?), we’d like to make a few things clear.
' TO ST. MARY’S
I. From the looks of things, we’ve suc-; ceeded in widening the breach which ' exists between Notre Dame and St. ! Mary’s. Really, girls, even though some ; of you. have expressed an avid dislike , for us, and we’ve raked you over the coals on several occasions, we still (and always will) love each and every bleached hair on your heads. We also thank you from the bottom of our emptied pockets for putting up with us. Really, . it has all been . . . “in jest.”
ON THE COVER
While we’re in the process of purging our souls, we’d like to mention the Thanksgiving cover which seemed to cause some consternation among some of the troops. In case you have forgotten, it was the one with the Pilgrim standing in a bear trap, holding a Dining Hall chicken in his hand.
As usual, our numerous fan sent us many a congratulatory' letter, and even the editor commented in his own quiet
May 23, 1958
way by making it the first in a series of one.
LOOK, A COMPLIMENT!
A tip of the tattered hat to the Senior Ball committee for providing, what was in our estimation, a wonderful climax to four years. We’re still in awe over the decorations that made the Drill Hall look like something out of a Cecil B. DeMille extravaganza.
HELP!
From the numerous pleas that the Editor sends out periodically (every issue), it has been brought to our attention that Escape is on the lookout for an author, or authors, for next year.
Now don’t be shy, troops; actually to knock out this drivel takes no talent whatsoever, and only a minimal of time. (We’ve proved this fact time and time again). All you need is a semi-warped mind, a ream of paper (napkins from Joers or old Blue Books will suffice), and either a typewriter or1 a finger dipped in ink. Give it a try; we did! (see, anyone can do it).
FOR SENIORS ONLY
No matter how you slice it, four years is just about over. In another week we’ll be termed Alumni, and be given the opportunity to donate. Even though it seems like only yesterday that we stepped on the campus as a Freshman, we’ll leave with a myriad of memories of our stay here under the Dome.
Remember? . . . arriving with Facts for Freshmen clenched in your sweaty fist, and the tender farewell to the folks . . . your first “pinkie” . . . that Phy Ed class (8:30) when you had to play paddle-tennis in the snow . . . your first, and usually last, mixer . .. “Who’s Fred Dale?” . . . the all-night lights set up to
pass exams . . . the bonfire and rally before the Cotillion . . . Blue Barron ... “Where did you buy your classring?” . . . the Tuesday night Physics tests ... the OLD Huddle . . . your favorite menu; “Yellow Death,” “S O S,” and “Mystery Meat” . . . the platter of steaks in front of the Dining Hall ... the Badin Bog ... visions of Off-campus in your Senior year . . . WSND’s “Vulgar Boatman” . . . the win over Oklahoma . . . and the finest Senior Ball any man could hope for? Yes, as the years wear on, these memories, and many more, will become even greater as they are rehashed at the class reunions.
BY THE WAY
' Once again there will be no cartoon at the bottom of the page because our hands haven’t stopped shaking from the Senior Ball week end. Sorry!!
THANKS
As most “has-beens,” we feel it necessary to thank a few special people in passing. Thanks to . . .	-
1.	Our Censor—Sorry we turned your hair gray; we were just kidding.
2.	The Printer—our punctuation is lousy and spelling worse; you made this sheet readable.
3.	The Scholastic Staff—(well, you know).	.
4.	Our Landlady—For not hocking the typewriter when the rent fell due. .
5.	Nance and Emi—For being so darned sweet.	.
FINIS
Well, that’s about it. We’ve had a beB being with you every other week, and all we have left to say is . . . Thanks, and good luck!	?
■

Thinking of Dining Out?
Think of EDDIE’S
Where Dining is treated as the pleasure it was intended to be.
1345 N. Ironwood
Reservations Call . . . CE 2-5861
ARE YOU ONE
... of those who always complain about the “Back Page,” “Escape," and other articles in the SCHOLASTIC? Do you think that you could do better or even as well? Or would you rather sit back and make wise remarks about the writing efforts of others?
If you are one of those students who think that they could write a column or do some serious or creative writing, why not try it?
The SCHOLASTIC is a student publication and it needs students to write for it—all kinds of writing on many different aspects of campus life. If you are interested, stop by 3 Sorin Hall and talk to George Clements. Do us both a favor!
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
RWTURBOW XOPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring tn the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Be a Magician Write Dr. Meyer Bloch
President
Eastern Magical Society 240 Rivington Street New York 2, N. Y.
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won't dry up before you've finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
(Md Spice Smooth Shave!
JOO
•men
•	,	. ' ' ’	'	.	The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY INSTALLS NEW GRADIN6 SYSTEM
4
Marking Plan Change Affects Entire Campus
.	By ROY RUBEU
The present percentage grading system has been abolished. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of J academic affairs, announced that a new marking system, based on six points, will , be instituted this fall.
I'	The two important features of the
new plan are the elimination of the qualitative average and the weighting of averages by credit hours.
Dropping the qualitative average means that only one average will appear on grade reports—the one that includes -r subjects flunked as well as those passed. , A weighted average means that a six credit hour course will count twice as I ' much as a three credit hour course. I Marks in the system will range from zero up to six. Six points will be equivalent to an A-plus, or anything from 95 and up. A five is the same as an A, or numerically, a 90 to a 94. Anything from 85 to 89 is equal to a B and will be worth four points.
Three points will be a C-plus, or an 80 to an 84. Two points will be given !for a C which is the same as a 75 to a 79. A grade between 70 and 74 is the . same as a D and worth one point. Anything under 70 is an F and will receive zero points.
However, marks will be expressed on a zero to six basis with no reference to letters or percentage numbers.
COURSES NOT EQUAL
:	How it would work was explained by
Leo Corbaci, assistant to Father Moore. The average, or quality point index, will be determined by multiplying the points received in a course by the course’s credit value. Then the total number of points f. will be added up and divided by the total number of credits. This will be done accumulatively over the four years.
I In a separate move, the honors minimum was raised to 88 per cent. . This means that cum laude, and consequently the Dean’s List as well, will begin at k 4.5. Magna cum laude is raised to 5.0, ' while 5.5 is necessary for maxima cum laude.
There are two factors which may put a student on academic probation. Cor
baci pointed out that an accumulative general average less than 2.0 or, in the case of freshmen, 1.5, or failing to pass more than two-thirds of the total number of credit hours in one semester will result in probation.
A student may be dismissed for two consecutive probations or if he acquires a total of three. This represents no change from existing regulations.
Students with an average of less than 1.0 may be dismissed immediately at the
FATHER PHILIP S. MOORE
Announces new grading system
discretion of their dean or asked to withdraw at the end of the semester.
Starting next year, all eight semesters will be included in the graduating averages. This is a regulation that has always existed, but up to now it has not been feasible to put it into practice.
PURPOSES OF NEW PLAN
The purpose of the system change is to give more recognition to courses which have a greater credit value and to eliminate the loopholes created by qualitative averages.
Corbaci explained that the present system “does not tend to give a true picture of a student’s scholastic achievement.”
He cited cases ..where students with good averages, who cut out of a course and receive zero per cent, have dropped below students with lower averages, who
have even flunked a course, but at least receive 65 or 68 per cent.' Eliminated also is the situation where a student with a mark in the low 70’s requests a 69 in order to have a better qualitative average.
The change will also simplify and streamline the marking system and bring Notre Dame into agreement with the vast majority of other universities. The time necessary to tabulate and record the students’ various marks will be reduced from a total of 16 hours to six hours.
The new system will create a wider spread of grades and reduce the number of grade changes. Last semester there were 801 changes, 500 of which in-
In the interest of fairness, deans of the various colleges will make aL . lowances, during the next two years, in . cases where a student is close to probation, the Dean’s List, or honors.
PAST AAARKS TO BE INTEGRATED
A faculty committee from the Academic Council has been appointed to make further studies of the implications of the new system. When its meetings are completed, a brochure containing a complete explanation of the grading sys- , tern will be given to all parents, faculty members, and students. The committee must decide the manner in which previously accumulated averages will be integrated into the new system in order to make a transition which will be comparable and fair.
The Grading System Committee consists of the Deans of all the undergraduate colleges, The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Lawrence H. Baldinger, and James W. Culliton; Assistant Dean Raymond J. Schubmehl of the College of Engineering; Assistant Dean Devere T. Plunkett of the College of Arts and Letters; Mr. Thomas Bergin, College of Commerce; Mr. Robert Egry, College of Engineering; Mr. Norman Haaser, CoL lege of Science; and Mr. Leo M. Corbaci, , \ Office of Academic Affairs.
; YEARBOOK DISTRMUTION
Yearbooks will be distributed every day next week in the base , / ment of Stanford Hall. The times.,1^ will be from 8 a.m. until noon, from 1 to 5 p.m. No student will L' receive a book without presenting his certification.	; ^4
May 23, 1958

Remember Dad Before You Leave
Father's Day...June 10
Your Bookstore corries a complete line of gifts to please any father. Fill his life with Notre Dame. Stop in and choose for Dad from a variety of beautiful Gifts.
Notre Dame Bookstore
^ticNEW YORK
Ideally located—within minutes of all shopping, entertainment and the business districts. Steps from Riverside Drive and Central Park.
Newest and largest on Upper Broadway — 650 attractive, comfortable rooms each with radio and telephone. Coffee Shop —fine food moderately priced.
Smart Coclttail Lounge—excellent food and beverages, TV.
Personalized, friendly service.
Banquet and Meeting facilities — 25 to 750 persons.
25 stories of Hospitality from $3,5° per person, double
HOTEL
MANHATTAN TOWERS
BROADWAY AND 76TH STREET PHONE: SUSQUEHANNA 7-1900
CABLE: MANHOTOWERS.NEW YORK
Dempsey Announced As Debate Team President
At the annual debate banquet held on May 15 Robert Dempsey was appointed next year’s debate team president. The announcement was made by Professor * Leonard Sommer, director of forensics. #
Dempsey is a political science major. This season he was vice-president and freshman coach of the team. He was general chairman of the sixth annual . Notre Dame National Invitational Tournament and received this year’s ‘Outstanding Debater Award” among the juniors.
Dempsey also received the “Joseph Conwell, Jr. Award” for excellence in public speaking. Dempsey’s activities * include the International Relations club of which he was elected next year’s J president. He is also on the A.B. Advisory Board and a member of the Wranglers.
The new vice-president is Gerry Gou-dreau who is a sophomore in chemical engineering. Tom Banchoff, an A.B. math major and a sophomore, was named executive secretary.
An “Outstanding Debater Award” went to Jack Martzell, this year’s president of the team. He was also given the Edward J. Doyle Prize for public . speaking. Thomas Clusserath, a senior economics major, also received an “Outstanding Debater Award.”
Notre Dame closed its debate season on May 8-10 by tying for first place with Marquette University in the Marquette Invitational at Milwaukee.
Professor Skeeler Dies After Years of III Health
Frank Skeeler, professor of electrical engineering for 15 years at Notre Dame, died last Friday after a long period of hospitalization.
Skeeler was the head of the engineering department at St. Edward’s University in Austin, Tex., where he taught for 18 years before he came to Notre Dame. A native of Texas, he did his undergraduate work at Texas A. & M. His graduate degrees were obtained from the University of Chicago.
An officer in World War I, Skeeler was given a military funeral last Monday in Sacred Heart Church.
B-X HOURS
The B-X announced its end-of- . the-semester hours as 9-12 a.m. and 1-4 p.m. next Monday through < Thursday. It also announced that J the usual mail-me service for graduating seniors will be in effect this j year.
10
The Scholastic
Jliik Scuu
Fallonmen Look To Nationals After Most Successful Year
a Notre Dame’s tennis squad, coached by Tom . Fallon, closed out its most successful season in history last Saturday with a 6-1 victory over the University of Detroit. The win gave the netters a season record of 17 wins and only a 5-4 loss to Iowa. Next action for the netters will be in the NCAA tournament.
In Saturday’s match against Detroit Captain Ron Schoenberg, playing in the numbei* one slot in place of injured Max Brown, easily won his 17th match of the year, 6-1 and 6-3, over Detroit’s Andy . Nassar.
Hector Cabello won over George Nassar, 6-4 and 8-6. Both Sergio Garza and Chuck Stephens shut out their op-
। ponents, 6-0 and 6-0. Garza decisioned Don Millazzo and Stephens beat Jim I.	,
Dnnan.
In the final singles match of the day, k Chuck Vanoncini won over Jim Staple' ton, 6-0 and 6-1, to complete the Irish sweep in the singles.
I Garza and Dee Stevenson won an abbreviated doubles match from the Nassar ' brothers, 8-6. Detroit picked up its only point in the second doubles match. Mi-
CHUCK VANONCINI . Senior three-year letterman
, lazzo and Drinan defeated the second I Irish doubles team of Pete Heinbecker . and Tom Bancholf, 8-4.
Last Thursday the Irish netmen won t a close match from the Wisconsin Badgers at Madison, 6-3. The Irish were playing without the services of Max Brown who was out with an injured ankle.
Team captain Schoenberg started off
Eleven-Game Klinemen Win Skein Snapped; Face Western Michigan on Road Tomorrow
The Irish nine travels to Kalamazoo, Mich., today to meet Western Michigan University. In 61 previous meetings between the two schools the Irish hold the edge, 40 wins to 21. Wednesday Notre Dame will play Michigan State at Cartier Field. The Irish shutout the Spartans 7-0 on May 7, behind the six-hit pitching of Chuck Symeon.
The Klinemen split a two-game series with Wisconsin May 12 and 13 at Madison. Notre Dame took the first game 5-4 behind the six-hit pitching of Frank Carpin, and on the following day had an eleven-game winning streak snapped, 5-3, by George Schmid of Wisconsin.
In the first contest the Irish struck quickly, shelling sophomore righthander Bill Lyons for five hits and three runs before he was relieved with two out in the first by another soph, Jack Simon. Simon gave up only three hits the rest of the way but was charged with the loss.
Notre Dame scored another ran in the third on a walk and a dropped fly. But the Badgers tied, the score in the fifth at 4-4 on a bases-loaded double by Jim Rogneby.
The winning run came in the sixth. A walk and an error put runners on first and third. Gene Duffy bounced a pitch back to the box and the pitcher
the match in the right way with a 6-4, 6-4 win over the Badgers’ Keith Anderson. Cabello lost to Al Fraser, 0-6, 6-2 and 4-6, but Garza put the Irish back in the lead with a 6-1, 6-2 victory over Tom Fraut.
Stephens and Vanoncini won the next two matches over their Wisconsin opponents. Stephens beat Stan Hays, 6-1, 2-6 and 7-5, and Vanoncini decisioned Jerry Rotter, 3-6, 6-1 and 6-2.
Dave Shepard of Wisconsin won the last singles match over Notre Dame’s Stevenson, 6-1 and 6-3 to narrow the Irish lead to 4-2 going into the doubles.
In the doubles the duos of Schoenberg-Cabello and Stephens-Vanoncini won for the Irish but Garza and Stevenson were beaten by the Badgers to make the final tally 6-3.
On Friday the netters invaded Milwaukee to meet the Marquette Warriors and came out with an 8-1 victory.
The only loss of the day came in the doubles where Schoenberg and Cabello bowed to Chuck Mulhany and Fritz Lohman of the Warriors.
elected to try for the double play which failed, allowing the winning run to score.
Harold Trapp had a single and a triple and Gene Duffy had two singles to lead the Irish attack. Carpin won his fifth game without a loss, allowing six hits and striking out 13 Badgers.
The next day the situation was reversed as ace Badger hurler George Schmid ended the eleven game Irish win streak.
The Irish batters got 10 hits off Schmid, including five doubles, but they were never able to organize their attack.
CHUCK SYMEON
Senior righthander paces Irish hurlers
While allowing 10 hits, Schmid struck out fourteen batters and won his own ball game in the seventh with a two-run triple. Symeon gave only four hits but walked three men, hit a batter and uncorked two wild pitches.
Last Saturday a scheduled game against Glenview Naval Air Station at Cartier Field was rained out.
Monday Notre Dame lost to Valparaiso University at Cartier Field, 15-13, despite four homers by the ND men. The Irish used four pitchers to try to turn the tide but committed seven errors afield to hurt their own cause.
Valpo jumped off to an 8-6 lead after five innings but in the sixth they broke loose for six runs and a 14-6 advantage. The Irish scored seven times in the last three frames but were unable to catch up.
11
May 23, 1958
Notre Dame’s Most Successful Sports Year
By GREG ROGERS
Notre Dame’s athletic teams had one of their most successful years during 1957-58. At present, they have compiled more than 100 victories with the baseball, golf and outdoor track seasons incomplete.
With the nucleus of the 1956 team returning, Coach Terry Brennan’s football team opened their season against Purdue. The Irish tackled and blocked their way to a 12-0 victory, holding the Boilermakers to eight first downs and only 113 yards.
Monty Stickles and Nick Pietrosante paced the Irish to victory over Army. The Irish came from behind to win in the final quarter on Monty Stickles’ 29-yard field goal, 23-21. In another final stanza victory, Dick Lynch roared around Oklahoma’s left side to give the Irish an upset 7-0 victory. Lynch’s score broke the Sooners’ 47-game winning streak and provided the nation with the year’s biggest upset. The Sooners had not been beaten for four years since the Irish beat them 28-21 in 1953. Pietrosante threw the big block that sprang Lynch into paydirt.
The Brennanmen finished their season with smashing victories over South-era Methodist and gave indications of speed in next fall’s backfield. Substitute halfbacks Jim Crotty and Pat Doyle led the Irish to 40-12 and 54-21 victories. The Green finished the year with a 7-3 record, well up in the national rankings. With over 20 lettermen returning again next year, Notre Dame could finish with a better record.
The cross-country team also had a very successful season. The Harriers finished the year with only one dual meet
12
loss and won the NCAA championship, upsetting the defending champions, Michigan State, who beat the Irish during the regular season. The Irish finished with 121 points, six points ahead of the Spartans. Ed Monnelly was the standout for Notre Dame, finishing in the first slot in three meets. The Green also won the Indiana Big State Meet and the Central Collegiate crown.
The fencing team turned in an undefeated record this year. The fencers took 16 straight matches to run their current winning streak to 19. In the biggest match of the year, the Irish met Illinois and Wisconsin in the Fieldhouse. Wisconsin entered the meet unbeaten and Illinois entered the match with only one loss, having already lost to Notre Dame. The Green swept the meet, hanging a 17-10 defeat on the Illini and knocking off the Badgers by a 16-11 count.
The Langfordmen continued their fine dueling in the NCAA championships, grabbing sixth place. Ron Farrow finished third in the epee with Jim Rus-somano garnering the fourth slot in the foil. Captain Dick Fagon closed out the Irish scoring as he took 14th place in the sabre.
The basketball team dropped only four regular season games and one in the NCAA to Kentucky to compile an over-all record of 22-5. The Irish won the unofficial championship of the Hoosier Classic, in Indianapolis, with their 68-61 and 89-74 victories over Purdue and Indiana.
The Jordanmen made three appearances in Chicago Stadium during the season and won two decisions, breaking
their traditional bad luck in the Stadium.
The Irish walloped the defending NCAA champions, North Carolina, by an 89-70 count. Earlier in the campaign, the Green knocked off Illinois in the Sta- [ dium by an 81-67 margin. Bradley a dumped the Irish in Chicago by an / 81-70 score.
The hoopsters scored better than 100	'*
points twice during the campaign. The
IN THE AIR
Tom Hawkins scores	{
Irish took their revenge on Marquette | for an earlier season defeat by a 106-74 margin at home. Detroit also was victimized by the Irish scoring machine as they fell by a 102-96 score. Tom j Hawkins poured 43 points through the / hoop against the Air Force Academy !s with the Irish winning 98-70 and he (■ tied the Fieldhouse record set by Lloyd ; Aubrey.	'
In the NCAA tourney, the Irish cata- ( pulted by Tennessee Tech with an easy 94-61 landslide victory. Continuing to Lexington, the hoopsters flattened Indiana for the second time, by a 94-87 | margin. But Kentucky took the measure | of the Irish with their 89-56 victory. Three of this year’s starters return next year and, with the addition of new players, the team could reach the NCAA tournament for the third straight year. The wrestling team had a fine season, compiling a 7-2 record. The grapplers won six in a row before tasting defeat. . In the Wheaton Invitational tourney, the Irish grabbed fourth place. Jerry Sachsel took third in the 123-pound slot with Captain Bob Pivonka finishing in the same spot in the 137-pound class. ’ Paul O’Connor finished out the Irish | scoring with his third in the 177-pound i class.
In the Case Tech Invitational, the wrestlers garnered a pair of thirds.
(Continued on page 14)	i
The Scholastic i
1
Irish Beat Marquette;
Place in Big State Meet
Notre Dame’s track squad finished second behind defending champion Indiana in the annual Big State track and field championships held at Crawfordsville, Ind., May 14.
The Hoosiers, led by Greg Bell, Willie May and Hal Caffey, narrowly edged out the Irish, 89-87, to take the title for the second straight year. Purdue finished third in a field of twelve teams.
Notre Dame was without the services of three of its top men for the meet. Frank Geremia a shot putter, Joe Foreman in the dashes, and Jack Cote a broad jumper and pole vaulter were all out with injuries.
John Burns in the two-mile run, Ken Scarborough in the discus, and Mike Morando in the javelin all scored firsts for the Wilsonmen. Half-miler Dale VandenBerg, miler Andy Crawford, hurdler Steve Dornbach (in the lows), high jumper Tom Sanfacon, and discus thrower Gerry Wilkes all recorded second place finishes for Notre Dame.
Last Saturday at Milwaukee, the Irish cindermen closed their outdoor dual meet season in convincing style by scoring a smashing 91% -49% victory over Marquette. Double winners Dornbach and John Foote headlined the Notre Dame triumph. Dornbach scored in the 120-yard high and 220-yard low hurdles while Foote copped the 100- and 220-yard dashes.
Morando set the only new meet record in the javelin event. The Irish junior hurled the spear 203 feet 6% inches. Glen Cividin leaped to a second place finish in the pole vault and teammate Tom Reichert tied for third.
The Irish swept both the half-mile and mile events. In the shorter’ distance, Marty Clynes, VandenBerg and Mike O’Connor swept across the finish line in that order. Senior Dick DiCamillo broke the tape first in the mile. Bob Hassenger finished second in the quarter-mile, and Hassenger, Pat Reilly, Clynes, and VandenBerg took the mile relay in 3:24.8.
For Notre Dame, the victory gave them a final 2-1 record in the brief outdoor dual meet season. Left on the Notre Dame schedule are the outdoor Central Collegiate championships at Milwaukee on June 7 and NCAA championships at Berkeley, Calif., on June 13-14.
At a meeting of lettermen in Milwaukee following the Marquette meet, the Irish elected juniors Dornbach and Mike Haverty to captain next year’s track squads. Dornbach will lead the indoor and outdoor teams next season. Haverty will head the 1958 Notre Dame cross-country squad.
May 23, 1958
TIME OUT
Everyone gets a little melancholy at the end of something which they have enjoyed, be it vacation, or prom or school year. With me it is the end of my association with the Scholastic. Let us return for a moment to Notre Dame’s “finest hours” athletically this year.
First the renewal of the Army series in Philadelphia’s cavernous Municipal Stadium. This one had to be the greatest game in the greatest seines Notre Dame has ever participated in. Stickles’ field goal was almost an anticlimax, for everyone in Philly that day knew that the Irish were not to be denied.
Then the journey into Soonerland. The University of Oklahoma is an amazing place. It has a loyal following matched only by Notre Dame’s, and when the two met on the brown grass of Owen Field last November 16 it was a natural. The pride of the Oklahoma people rides with the Big Red each Saturday afternoon and this particular Saturday the pride was magnified. The Oklahoma-Notre Dame game was the climax of the State Semicentennial. But indeed it was Black Saturday for Coach Bud and his boys as their phenomenal streak was broken. Their pride and spirit were not, however, as they went down like champions. And, they went down to real champions.
The next big one that comes to mind is the basketball team’s big victory over North Carolina’s subway southerners in Chicago Stadium. Many thought that the Irish played their best game of the year against the Tar Heels as they controlled both boards and rushed Coach McGuire’s troops off the floor.
Then the NCAA playoffs. We roared past Indiana and ran into the Baron and his boys who fought the Civil War all over again, gaining considerable prestige for the torn and tattered South. This one was like a bad dream. We couldn’t do anything right and they couldn’t do anything wrong.
Though less publicized several other records are worthy of mention. The fencers’ record of 19 straight, the cross-country team’s national championship, and the still unfinished spring sports. All of these have combined to give us the greatest year in the history of the University.
THANKS
And so it ends. But before it does there are many people whom I must thank: Charlie Callahan, Joe Bride, Dolores, Roger, Coaches Jordan, Brennan, Wilson and Gibbons.
Too, there is Brother William at the Ave, Tommy Edwards, Tyler, and most of all Ed Rohrback and Collins Thompson, my two assistants who made the whole thing possible. Collins incidentally is next year’s sports editor and should make up for the last two years.
If I have missed anyone, and I’m sure I have, please forgive me and know that it wasn’t intentional. All of us who are connected with the sports section hope that you have enjoyed oui* efforts this year. We’ve enjoyed bringing the news to you.	'
AUBREY'S CONTEST
Aubrey Lewis announces that the winner of his name contest has not yet been determined. The winner will be informed by mail soon.
—M. F.
i
Worth cheering about!
OUSEHOLD FINANCE
The Scholastic
14
relays, Joe in the 300-
$600 700 800 900
1000
strong second to Western The Irish gained six first broke three conference rec-
Cash You Get
Life insurance is provided on all HFC loans without extra cost to you
you select. So if a loan is the answer to your money problems, phone or visit HFC.
finished a Michigan, places and ords.
Students and faculty members who need extra cash for any good reason, have found they can borrow with confidence from HFC. At Household, loans are made promptly, in privacy, with repayment terms
23 feet 7% the 60-yard
broad jump with a leap of inches. Dornbach also won low hurdles.
In the Michigan State Foreman took the top spot
STEVE DORNBACH
Irish high-stepper
101)4 S. Michigan St., Cor. Washington 2nd Floor over Block Bros. Jewelry PHONE: CEntral 3-2106
Year In Review
(Continued from page 12)
Sachsel scored in the 117-pound class and Bronko Nagurski finished third for the Irish in the heavyweight division.
The indoor track team also finished their campaign unbeaten in dual meets. The Irish walloped Missouri, Purdue and Iowa. In the Purdue meet, which saw the Irish take ten of a possible twelve firsts, three records were broken. Dale VandenBerg took the 880 in 1:51.4. Steve Dornbach broke the 60-yard high hurdle record with a timing of :07.4 and Notre Dame’s Don Faley won the
yard run with Tom Sanfacon tieing for first in the high jump. Jack Cote and Faley placed third and fourth respectively in the broad jump.
The Irish relinquished their Central Collegiate crown after four years but
MONTHLY PAYMENT PLANS			
24 paymts	20 paymts	12 paymts	6 paymts
$30.02	$35.02	$55.08	$105.39
35.03	40.85	64.26	122.95
40.03	46.69	73.44	140.52
45.03	52.52	82.62	158.08
50.04	58.36	91.80	175.65
Payments include charges at the flat monthlyrateofll/2%onunpaidbalances.
In the spring sports, the Notre Dame teams have been equally successful. The tennis teams finished the season with a 17-1 record. The netters lost their only match to the powerful Iowa club.
The netters reached the finals of the Cherry Blossom tourney in Washington, D. C., after beating Georgetown and George Washington, but the final match, against Michigan, was rained out and rescheduled for May 5, here at Notre Dame. The Wolverines entered the match on the crest of a 48-game winning streak. The Irish snapped the streak with a 7-2 win and won the tourney championship.
Coach Tom Fallon commented that “this year’s team was probably the best team that Notre Dame ever had.” The Irish won 14 matches before tasting defeat at the hands of the Hawkeyes. Max Brown, Captain Ron Schoenberg, Hector Cabello, Sergio Garza, Chuck
Stephens and Chuck Vanoncini were the regulars.
After a mediocre spring training tour, the baseball team caught fire and now has a 14-4 record. First baseman Jim Morris is the club’s leading hitter with Chuck Scrivanich, Chuck Symeon and Frank Carpin the leading pitchers. The Irish have lost to Michigan, Ohio University, Wisconsin and Valparaiso. But Coach Kline’s team has knocked off such top teams as Northwestern, Indiana, Purdue and Michigan State in addition to beating three of the four teams they have lost to. Captain Bob Senecal, John Carretta, Ed Wojcik, Gene Duffy are some of the other Irish regulars.
The golf team has also turned in a fine record thus far this year. To date, they have an 11-3 record. Father Holder-

ith’s club has lost to Iowa, Purdue and Michigan State but has knocked off such teams as Wisconsin and Northwestern.
The linksters nipped the Badgers by a 13%-13% score to upset the defending Big Ten champions. Charlie Thum, Frank Hund, Lloyd Syron, Terry Lally, Joe Grace, Tom Garside, Christie Flanagan and Tom Rose are the team leaders.
The outdoor track team has split two dual meets so far this year in addition to making good showings in both the Drake and Ohio Relays. The Irish walloped Pittsburgh 72%-58% but lost to Michigan State. In the Big State Meet, Notre Dame javelin thrower, Mike Morando, broke a Notre Dame record with his throw of 223 feet 4% inches.
In the Ohio Relays, the Irish placed in six events with the sprint medley team of Foreman, Pete Salsich, Barclay Ewart and VandenBerg taking first place. The thinclads also placed in three events in the Drake Relays.
Linksmen Enter NCAA With 11-3 Season Slate

Notre Dame will send a four-man team to the National Collegiate Golf Championship at Williamstown, Mass., from June 22-June 28. Every member of last year’s team which finished 14th in the NCAA is back this year. This fact coupled with strong help from sophomores should enable the Irish to improve on their 1957 performance in the NCAA. With one match remaining the linksters have a record of eleven wins and three setbacks.
Purdue won the Big State Golf Championship for the second straight year last Saturday on Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Notre Dame linksters were second and Indiana was third. Gene Francis of Purdue and Joe Grace of the Irish were co-medalists with 141 for 36 holes.
। For Notre Dame in the morning round, ' Co-captain Grace led the way with a ?'	two-under-par 69. Lloyd Syron and
I	Marty Carroll fired 74’s, Christy Flan-
agan had 75 and Charlie Thurn and Frank Hund shot 76’s.
Purdue’s Francis turned in the best I round of the day in the morning as he toured the Notre Dame layout in 34-34 —68. John Konsek had 72 for the Boil. ermakers. Dari Kriete blazed around the t initial 18 holes in 69 to pace the Indiana golfers in the morning round.
As the first threesome reached the seventh hole in the afternoon round it started to rain. These thundershowers continued intermittently until about the ! 16th hole when the sun returned to stay. ! But the inclement weather didn’t seem to bother the Purdue linksmen. All six i golfers shot between 72 and 75 to clinch ! the Big State title for the second year in ; a row. As in the morning round Francis | and Konsek paced the team. They shot ।	73 and 72 respectively.
I Notre Dame ran into trouble on the ! front nine in the afternoon and gave Purdue a decisive lead which could not i be overcome. Grace continued his fine j play, however, carding a 72 to tie with Francis for medalist at 141. Terry : Lally, filling in for Thurn, turned in a fine one-under-par 70. Carroll finished with a 73 to post a 147 total for the day.
" But Hund, Flanagan and Syron failed to duplicate their morning play and wound up with 153, 153 and 156 respectively.
Indiana’s Kriete added 74 to his 69 to give him 143 and second place in medal-| ist honors. His teammate Ron Royer shot an even-par 71 in the afternoon for 146.
In the final scoring it was Purdue over Notre Dame, 20%-15%, Notre Dame
took Indiana, 20-16. In the 36-hole medal event, Purdue also won with a five-man total of 734. Notre Dame was second with 740 and Indiana third with 745.
On Monday the Irish defeated TriState College in an abbreviated 27-hole match, 17%-%. An 18-hole best-ball event was played in the morning and nine-hole medal play matches in the afternoon.
Marty Carroll and Tom Rose of Notre Dame had a best-ball of 71 to defeat Frank Skestone and Ray Enfield of TriState. Bud Zesinger of the Irish fired a two-under-par 69 as he and his partner Terry Lally bested Tri-State’s Dick Wallace and Ken Shelton. Zesinger and Lally had a best-ball of 66. The third Irish team of Gary Webster and Dick Manns shot 69 to down Paul Haben and James Smith.
GET THE JUMP
ON VACATION FUN ...GO GREYHOUND8!
•	Lowest fares of all public transportation!
•	Frequent departures! Quick* est time to many cities!
• Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing; fully equipped restroom; on all Scenicruiser Service® schedules!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
GREYHOUND TERMINAL, 117 WESTERN AVE. AT 7-7010
Service Awards Presented To Six University Professors
Six professors have been chosen to receive service awards by the members of the senior class..
Because of the large number of liberal arts professors, two professors, Joseph Evans and John Frederick, were selected.	,
Professor Rudolph Bottei was picked from the College of Science and John Malone was named from the Commerce College. Due to a close ballot, two professors, Anthony Evers and Francis Kobayashi, were chosen from engineering.
These professors were chosen on the basis of willingness and helpfulness to their students. The preparation and organization of material were considered along with time spent outside of class.
Compare these low, low fares!
Cincinnati, Ohio $ 7.75
Detroit, Mich.	6.00
Harrisburg, Pa.	17.65
Houston, Tex.	26.50
Miami, Fla.	32.90
*one-way fare, plus tax
Brainstorm! No matter how much baggage you’re taking home— Greyhound can take it all!
May 23, 1958
Daschbach Announced As Wrangler President
Joe Daschbach, a junior in the General Program from Pittsburgh, Pa., has been elected next year’s president of the Wranglers. Daschbach has been active as a teacher in Confraternity of Christian Doctrine.
Tom Hoberg, from Oak Park, Ill., was elected to the position of secretary. Hoberg is a junior majoring in English.
In addition to the newly elected officers seven new members were admitted to the club. The new members are: freshmen Chris Lund, Bill Slattery, and Lyn Relph; sophomore Jim Rose; juniors Brian Moran and Jack Shields; and Joe McDonald, a graduate student.
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines fast Mainliners*!
Sew umliMiblo vacation time by flying fast, dependable United Air Lines Mainliners. Radar-equipped for smoother flights, greater on-time reliability. Convenient schedules, including luxurious Red Carpet* Service. Call United or your travel agent
HWCnrpatbaaanrimnnrkMmad anduaadby lMM AirUnmu h»
YCS POSITIONS OPEN
The YCS recently announced the following campus jobs are still open for application B-X manager, campus press positions, and tutoring service positions. Applicants are requested to write letters of application to the Catholic Action Office in the La Fortune Student Center, or if possible to appear at the office for a personal interview.
Attention Students
Interested in summer selling in your own home town? Unlimited earnings. Send brief resume to:
TRACY-TUCKER CO.
2554 Edgewood Road East Gary, Indiana
University Glee Club Elects Cook Next Year's President
Thomas Cook, a senior from Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y., was elected the new president of the University glee club in the election held recently.
Three other officers were also chosen at the same election: Carl Noelke, vice president; John Adams, secretary; and Thomas Kane, treasurer.
Studying in the five-year A.B. engineering program, Cook had been the glee club business manager for the past year. Noelke, who comes from La Crosse, Wis., is an accounting major in the Commerce ■ College. Kane and Adams, both sophomores, are in commerce and engineering respectively;
James Vaughey, a junior from Scarsdale, N. Y., was appointed business manager. Thomas George, also a junior from Flint, Mich., will take the publicity manager post.
Galvin Chosen to Head Local Knights' Council
The Knights of Columbus have elected Tim Galvin their new Grand Knight. The results of the election were announced at the last meeting of the year held last Monday. Tim is a junior in the College of Commerce from Hammond, Ind.
Deputy Grand Knight will be Carl Edmundson, of Braidwood, Ill., also a junior in commerce.
Chancellor for next year is Tom Moyn-ahan, recording secretary, Martin Ronan, and treasurer, Tom Huck.
Jerry McGlynn was elected warden; advocate is Clay Smith. Inside guard will be Frank Reiner, and the outside guards will be James Long and Mike Caren.
Sophomore Cotillion Date Set For Army Game Week End
The date for the 1958 Sophomore Cotillion has been set for the week end of the Army game, Oct. 11.
The general chairman for the ball is Armando Loizaga. His business manager is John Cooney. Publicity chairman is Roger Driscoll; decorations will be supervised by Jim Cassidy. In charge of tickets will be Mike Ferrik; accommodations will be cared for by Don Chmiel, and the Communion Breakfast is under the charge of John Walsh.
TO ALL OUR READERS Rom every one of us To each and all of you. Thanks for reading This the year through.
16
The Scholastic
I ROTC Groups Report For Summer Duty
The Anny, Air Force, and Navy ROTC detachments have formulated their plans for summer encampment. The Air Force cadets have been divided among twelve camps.
The largest group will go to MacDill Air Force Base in Florida. The main purpose of the summer camp is to familiarize the cadets with the service.
The first camp period is from June 15 to July 12 and the second from August 3 to August 30. At some time during the summer, all cadets will be sent to Eglin Air Force Base in Florida for a firepower demonstration.
There will be 129 Army cadets reporting for summer camp duty. This year they will train at Fort Riley, Kan., beginning on June 21.
Next year’s Naval ROTC seniors in the regular program will participate in the eastern and mid-Pacific tour from June 28 to August 15.
Second class regulars will go through * drill at the Little Creek, Va., amphibious base and the Corpus Christi air station from July 9 to July 30.
Second Fleet ships and Atlantic Fleet destroyers will carry the third class midshipmen to northern European ports.
All first class regular and contract - students in the Marine training program will attend the Marine Corps School at Quantico, Va.
Math Department Announces Names of 4 Contest Winners
Winners of the freshman and sophomore mathematics competition were announced Wednesday by the mathematics department. Gordon Berg, who is a mathematics major, and Thomas Scharle, . a physics major, tied for first place in the sophomore division.
First place in the freshman division - was shared by Joseph Costantino, a physics major, and David Hudson, a mathematics major.
Second place in the sophomore contest - went to Claiborne Johnson, mathematics, and James Daiber, engineering. Michael DeHaemer, physics, took third, while - Michael Butler, a mathematics major, and David Roller, engineering, received honorable mention.
William O’Connell, a physics major, ; took second place in the freshman competition, and Leonard Biallas, C.S.C., who is a mathematics major, placed : third.
Honorable mentions went to Robert Burckel, mathematics, Philip . Ryan, physics, August Fath, A.B., and Robert Foster, engineering.
May 23, 1958
Campus Station Leaves Air With ’What's New in '58-'59'
WSND signed off the air for this school year last Sunday night with its last program, “What’s New in ’58-’59.” A series of student leaders and the president of the University gave their views on things to happen next year.
Interviewed by Jim Bennett were George Clements, new editor of the Scholastic, Blue Circle Chairman Bill McCullough, John Thurin, Dome editor for next year, and Denny Shaul, student body president.
Chuck Puntillo and Tom Hawkins gave their predictions for next year’s sports possibilities. Station Manager Warren Albright gave his thanks to the station’s many sponsors and outlined some of the new shows for next year.
Just before signing off for the year, The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., gave his farewell to the graduating seniors and his best wishes to all Notre Dame students for a happy summer.
Aescalapicm Cl«b Elects O'Neill Presides! for'M
Next year’s president of the Aescu- -lapian Club will be Mike O’Neill a junior from Omaha, Neb. O’Neill is also president of the Nebraska Club. .
Jerry Bechamps, a junior from Flush- -' ing, N. Y., is the new vice-president. He is also vice-president of the Met club and was chairman of the Met dub Easter dance. The new treasurer is Bud Menn, , a sophomore f rom Scranton, Pa.
The newly elected secretary is Greg Walsh, a sophomore from Los Angeles. A Dean’s List student, he is currently a . member of the student senate infirmary. -committee.	-
The newly elected trustees are: Don Wood, a sophomore from North East, . Md.; Paul Quinn, a sophomore from . Bound Brook, N. J.; and Ed Heartfield,_ a sophomore from Port Arthur, Texas.
The newly appointed trustee is a junior from El Camp, Texas, Ed Weinheimer.
Hack Pa^e
quoth ... nevermore j
by JOHN KEARNS
Upon this solemn but joyful occasion, John Thomas Patrick Kearns at last takes leave, and (thank God) nevermore an intimation of him in this position. But don’t grieve for although he goes away, he’s happy, with a song and a dance and a drink—of which, no mention. Before the end, though, he wants to see that some receive publicly his attention.
In four swift years a multitude are met, some good, some not—of these, the lot, I sing. First on my list (not ranked), I shan’t forget Rev. Chas. E. Sheedy, to, whom I bring homage. As dean of the College-of-Liberal-Arts he does quite well, with much ability.
I must include Theo. Hesburgh, who darts around the globe—this needs agility, with which he’s greatly blessed. Now comes one whose books don’t sell—but he taught me to write.
R. Sullivan, adieu. And I won’t lose sight of Ernest Sandeen—I say, with right, he showed me how to read. I can’t omit a word about RO—whose personnel could probably never be forced to admit that I have the talent to perform well some rank above sergeant. I say good-bye to Coach Walter Langford. Thanks for many choice week ends. I breathe what’s nearly a sigh when I think of four years without any course by Joe Evans. Praise be to Lena, with the best figure of all maids at school; fine woman, too. Now one who’s not been a bad editor—Jim Steintrager, no fool, gave me this job. Farewell happy Father Norton, I have forgiven you for censoring that early article. No way short on brains, my math teachers shall most firmly cling in memory. Ky Fan, only Buddhist
I have known; Mister Jenkins smart but solemn, and R. C. Taliaferro—I’d not have missed them. Next this one who, robed all in black, comes from up in Sorin Hall. Young Brennan, priest, is analogously involved right now in the analogic unity, not pieced togethei- but samely different somehow, of being. Good-bye to Father Putz, the best of all religion profs, even though he gave that hundred mark to Schork. Now I fear lest Leo R. Ward escape by gaze; God save you Father, for yours is my only pink slip.
A jaunty man with a monogram coat is Jack McAllister who’s glad to equip
18
the Jocks. The hardest man I know to quote he is. One more Mac, McAuliffe follows me across grass and snow, while I run fast	?
away. Now with Walt Gray I exchange bows, • and I’ll never more ask, as in time past, where the hell he is. I say my good-bye now to Father Simonitsch, who taught me once.
And to Father McAvoy who must know how	'
to find J. Evan’s barber. This next’s no dunce,	.
for John Kennedy is the laziest smart guy	,
of all. While his short fat friend, Bob, truly	r J
meets Aristotle’s conditions, no lie,	I
for a buffoon. Commonly called Houlie.	Jq
There’s Bryan Woods, who tries, though I’m not sure | j at what. Tony Schork too, with pushed-in face,	-' i
gets my acclaim. He and our rector Cure	j
Brown run Walsh together. Next in line is ace	J
George Oess, at whom one look is worth almost	ij
one thousand words. I warmly thank Moose Krause	< I
for his ice cream which he gave to me most	j
generously at Eddie’s new Steak House.	i!
Will Kilbourne now steps in this place—of him it is .enough to say that when he writes	|
his name is Martin T. Francis, of dim and unearned fame. Now Frank McGraw, who fights	(
Aquinas for his rank. Farewell too, Frank.
I turn now to Dean O’Meara, whence came
so many pleasant letters—for which my thanks.	J
They all told me of legal doings; with shame	p
I confess to never going. Commerce	;
houses Ed Monnelly, but his true love	1
is philosophy (not track)—this little verse	(
sings of his mind, not of his legs. Above
the chairs the name O’Brien will live always,	V
enshrined in LaFortune. Dave Shanahan	[■
who acts a little and laughs a lot draws praise	I
from all for both. Jerry Dodge has a fan	|
or two because he acts some and dances more.	|
As I draw near the end of my list, I find	[>
Francis O’Malley from that Sorin eyesore is not yet praised. It is too bad his kind’s so rare. Bernie McGowen will want in here, so in he comes; Gep Durenburger too.
Jerry Burke also gets to appear,	h
to fill the rhymes. If he were a Hindu, he would fit well. I now am done with names.	H
Had I more skill, I’d bring still others in,	J
but I grow tired. I am not apt for games	,
with words. I take my leave—other men will write here from now on, good luck to them, and now, farewell. Play, someone, a requiem.	1
The Scholastic !
REMINGTON ROLLECTRIC
the only shaver with built-in rollers
Give your favorite face a break — start shaving it faster, closer, with Roller Comb comfort So kind to your skin, the Rollectric never irritates no matter how hard you press.
With three diamond-honed double action shaving heads, Rollectric shaves far, far faster. It puts more area into actual shaving contact than other brands, all made with one or two ordinary heads.
Rollectric’s exclusive Roller Combs make fast close shaving truly comfortable. They press skin down, pop
whiskers up—let you shave at the true whisker base.
With Rollectric—you're always sure of a peach of a shave—in absolute comfort!
Another Remington Exclusive! Remington Anto-Home Rollectric. Shave anywhere—in home, car, plane or boat! It goes where you go! Has every advantage of the regular Remington Rollectric.
Ask your dealer about his liberal allowance when you trade-in any of the 5 top brands for a new Remington!
Product of Remington Rand Electric Shaver. Division of Sperry Rand Corporation, Bridgeport 2, Connecticut
Watch TV’s Ho. 1 show, GUHSMOKE. on CBS TV Motworh
SO GENTLE!
IT SHAVES THE FUZZ OFF A PEACH WITHOUT NICKS OR IRRITATION!
SO POWERFUL! .
IT SHAVES OFF BRISTLES TOUGHER THAN ANY WHISKERS.
MM
nk
“When it comes to
jF
Eli
fUvOr
WINSTON
"Bright, clean flavor... pure snow-white filter...thats WINSTON*
SAYS

my Winstons, I go right along with the majority,” says the famous ‘photographer’ star of The Bob Cummings Show on NBC. “It’s America’s favorite filter cigarette — and mine!” To a rich, bright blend of prized tobaccos, Winston adds its own specially designed, pure white filter. The result is an unusually clean, fresh taste—the Winston taste! You’ll like it, too!
LIKE A Cigarette SHOULD!
■^G xh-
‘ITER ^Or

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
Smoke	Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!