
(jgts
PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
(STMUSMtn


PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
x PHILIP MORRIS
TRY A PACK... TODAY
LETTERS
BE A BUDDY WEEK
Dear Editor:
Do you know your next door neighbor? We wonder how many students do?
Originally Notre Dame embodied one big fraternal spirit whereby the average student had and was continually acquiring new friends. Apparently Notre Dame has outgrown this. The prevailing attitude on campus today is to meet one select group of fellows and then make no positive attempt to extend the scope of acquaintanceship. Why does ^this attitude prevail? Because there have been no effective efforts to combat it. All the campus-wide methods for inciting student interest employed heretofore have completely ignored the fact that you cannot have unity in the whole unless there is unity in its parts. When the men in the various halls don’t know one another, how can it be expected that they will combine their efforts in getting behind campus-wide drives.
How can a hall and, consequently, a campus spirit of friendliness and fraternity be revived? . . . Here are a few suggestions we would like to advance:
1)	Extending the common courtesy of a cheerful greeting when meeting fellows walking down the passageways in your hall. . . .
2)	Putting name cards on the doors. This provides an excellent way to learn the other fellow’s name. . . .
3)	Hall parties; smokers; banquets; informal hall dances in the Rockne Memorial. Social activities like these would naturally bring the men together. . . .
4)	Individual dining rooms. Ridiculous? Impractical? Not necessarily so. At present Notre Dame is planning an expensive union building. We doubt if it would cost more to convert the present dining hall into a beautiful union and to install dining rooms in each of the halls than it would cost to erect an entirely new structure for the Union. . . .
Perhaps, if some of these suggestions were acted upon, the Notre Dame students wouldn’t have the occasion to look in the newspapers and see a larger crowd meeting the ND football team .at the California station (in the rain) than saw them off from the circle. Perhaps the junior class would have enough interest to elect class representatives.
Perhaps the student body wouldn’t be outshouted by St. Mary’s girls at the games. Perhaps the idea of being a Notre Dame man would be more of a matter of personci pride.
William A. Adler, Dillon Hall.
George Sealy, Alumni Hall.
John V. Ankenbruck, Morrissey Hall.
Peril aps—E ditor.
REDMAN VS. BRADY
Dear Editor: ,
It is seldom that I am stirred to jeopardize my English average by venturing into these comparative lists of liter
Is it a sports shirt?
Is it a regular shirt?
Yes, twice—it's both! The Arrow Doubler is styled to look, equally well open-necked or with a necktie.
Doubler is made in fine white or blue Gordon oxford cloth and comes in regular collar and sleeve lengths. Sanforized labeled.* See your Arrow dealer for a Doubler today! S4.
* (Fabric shrinkage less than 1%)
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES w—------------------------------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
ary competition; but the provocative exchange between Mr. Redmann and Mr. Harmon in exegetical comment upon the text “act like white boys” stirs my spleen. Personally, I thought Mr. Red-mann’s point was well made—though ill taken. Knowing Mr. Redmann for the scholarly critic he is, I think I can tender the assertion that he would not anathematize the English use of the term “white” in the phrase “White cliffs of Dover,” construing it (as Mr. Harmon would assume) an aspersion upon the black race as symbolizing the contrary. Offer him three fingers of “white mule,” and he will not offer you four fingers of a “finger wave” in rebuff. Nor if he had been cautioned to “act like a man” would he have dashed to the colors as noble champion of women’s rights. When I call Mr. Redmann a “good egg,” I am
3
likewise assured that no cafeterial associations will stimulate him to interpret it as an effrontery.
Come, now, Mr. Harmon—I think Mr. Redmann was pretty white about all this!
Carl J. (“Wile Dawg”) Allen 403 Morrissey Hall
Dear Editor:
First of all I wish to apologize to Master of Ceremonies Brady for the obnoxious references to him in my letter of the Dec. 19, Scholastic. I said “I try to live as though I were baptized,” but obviously in writing that letter I failed by having “sneeringly belittled” Mr. Brady. I am truly sorry.
As to Mr. Harmon’s “inconsequential idiomatic idiosyncrasies” (English students please note alliteration!): Are my sensibilities affected at cowards being called yellow? And I confess, and do not deny; they are not. (Explanation: this use of yelloiv is derived from the yellowness of a person afflicted with jaundice, one of the concomitants of which is general weakness; the coward being weak in courage is somewhat analogously called yellow.) If “Act like yellow men” had been said, yes, Mr. Harmon, my sensibilities would have been offended. Do the lashing words “your father’s mustache” pierce my innocent heart? No; my father doesn’t have a mustache. And whether or not he has is of no importance in reference to those words. If “Act like your father’s mustache” had been said I would have turned to observe closely just how one acts like his father’s mustache. I would not have been offended. (Further, when our parents said “23 skiddo” in their youth, they did so not because they despised all persons aged 23.) Correctly, I believe, you label your examples “inconsequential.” However, when one says “Act like white boys” the signification of white is not so innocent as when “That’s white of you” is used.
As to my being a “professional tolera-tionist:” The only thing I can recall having ever done professionally was to follow in my father’s footsteps the night he stole the show as the front part of a horse.
Mr. Harmon says that Mr. Brady “is as liberal as any can be without actually espousing Communism.” What does Mr. Brady’s being a Socialist have to do with the question?
“Using the words K. K. K. to describe him is stupid ...” I agree perfectly. As a matter of fact I re-read my first letter to make sure that I hadn’t done that.
Does Mr. Hannon suggest that my “zeal” is misplaced because of my writing to the Scholastic? Would he recommend the Daily Worker? Concerning his statements in the beginning of that
(Continued on Page 33)
4
I . ?. for every man on the campus! PIC rounds out your liberal education with information on careers . . . sports . . . apparel . . . fiction. PIC brings you extra credits in entertainment with the latest reviews in music ... records . .. stage ... screen. Add PIC to your regular curriculum .. .
I it's your best magazine buy.
PIC, 122 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Enclosed find □ check O money order for $1.50 for the one year special college subscription.
NAME____________________________________________
PIC
THl MAGAZINE
FOR YOUNG MEN
.COLLEGE_____________
STATE________________
Subscribe NOW... only $1.50 per year
ADDRESS.
CITY____
CAN YOUR SCALP PASS THE
FINGER-NAIL
TEST?
Z1 TRY ITI Scratch your head. If you e find signs of dryness or loose ugly dandruff, you need Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Grooms hair.. .relieves dryness .. .removes loose dandruff. Contains soothing Lanolin, an oil resembling the natural oil of your skin.
YOUR HAIR CAN LOOK LIKE THIS WITH WILDROOT CREAM-OIL
2A LITTLE WILDROOT CREAM-OIL • does a lot for your hair. Keeps it well groomed all day long. Leaves no trace of that greasy, plastered down look.Makesyourhairlookandfeelgood.
CONTAINS LANOLIN!
■UPS MTNS
9 AGAIN AND AGAIN the choice of men who put good grooming first — that’s Ufildroot CreamOil. No wonder when new users from coast to coast were questioned, 4 out of 5 who replied said they preferred it to any other hair tonic they had used before. For generous trial supply free, send this ad with your name and address to Wildroot Co., Inc. Dept. C-l, Buffalo 8, New York.
TOP OF THE WEEK
Bill Sherman of St. Paul, Minn., and Mike Nyland of Buffalo, N. Y., took one look at the chow last Wednesday night and headed for town. Seated aboard the Northern Indiana Transit Company sweat-box, Bill noticed that Mike had his eyes closed. “What’s the matter, Mike?” he asked. “Don’t you feel good?”
“I feel fine,” Mike replied, “but I can’t bear to see women standing.”
PROGRESS
Pop, the gent who wears the smile ten-hours-a-day over at the dining halls, says he can still remember the day Knute Rockne waited three hours in the basement phone facade before he could place a call to St. Many’s. Times haven’t changed much. Neither have the phones. Every year the yell goes up for more telephones—the Student Council investigates, the Scholastic prints hundreds of gripe letters, the administration promises to look into the matter. The result: same as if you had asked for a carbon copy of the atomic bomb formula. Last week I went over to place a call home. For some unusual reason—possibly because there was a Roy Rogers western at the State—the crowd was only three deep. The fellow next to me was read;ng the Age of Jackson while he waited; he started out with Jackson in three corners and wound up burying him in the phone booth, two hours later. I didn’t have much luck either—got the “busy” signal three times before I got my number. Just as mom said “hello,” the saw mill across the hall started ripping away on some Oregon timber. The only thing I heard was a tender, homey “your time is up, sir—please deposit $4.85.”
PARTLY CLOUDY
Station WSBT summed up the weather situation last week when-it gave this weather report on a morning program: “Friday, generally warmer, probably followed by Saturday.”
NO SALE
That book salesman from Northwestern will be on the campus between semes
ters. Many of you don’t know him. I do. Last June I borrowed one of those wheelbarrows from the Railway Express Agency to cart a four-semester accumulation of books to his temporary headquarters in Badin Hall. Out of breath and out of dough, I rolled the tomes up to the counter. “Take ’em,” I said. “What have you got there? Will have to look them over. Hmmb—Principles of Economics. That book has been out of date so long it’s almost a collector’s item—$.15. Here’s one—Literature Since the Renaissance. Hasn’t been any literature that I know of—$.05. When did you use this book? From Beoivulf to Thomas Hardy. Those guys played football here in ’22 and ’23, didn’t they?” “Yeah.” “Give you $.10 for it.” “Thanks.” “These religion books—no religion at Northwestern, you know.” “Throw them in.” “Okay, here’s your $1.20.” “Thanks.”
NEW BOOKS (AT THE LIBRARY)
DICTIONARY (Funk and Wagnails). Flimsy plot throughout. Remarkable vocabulary.
CENSUS REPORT (U. S. Government). Very realistic. Sex element predominant.
TELEPHONE BOOK (Indiana Bell). Too many characters. Will bring back a few old memories. Local setting.
ONE OF THOSE THINGS
It would save a great deal of trouble if Richard Hyland of Penn Yan, N. Y., would pack his bags and enter Cornell University, his first love. Dick lives in 209 Cavanaugh with a fellow named Richard Hyland. The latter Richard comes from Greenwich, Conn., and is no relation to Richard, the former. Father Leahy, their rector, makes them show their identification cards at morning check. The mailman spent so much time lugging their misplaced letters between Zahm and Lyons last semester that he requested them to move together—they did. Someday they hope to marry each other’s girl and settle down in Highland Park, Illinois.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
While you were reading this, Henry Ford II made fifty thousand dollars.
ScotMei'i Stat
tuf, floe Wilcox
Notre Dame’s Rebel club is not wholly unreconstructed. Recently this club, consisting of the lads from the deep,.deep South and the Dominion of Texas, conceived a fine plan. They thought it would benefit their clubj Notre Dame, and the South, if they could bring some Southern speakers here who could tell Notre Dame men what is really going on down in the New South. Among the men the Rebel club would like to see at Notre Dame is Ellis Arnall, forthright Georgia liberal who put the Klan and the Talmadge mess in their places, among other accomplishments. The Rebel club wrote to Mr. Arnall’s agents, asking about the price. Mr. Arnall’s minimum is $500, but he personally was informed of the Rebel club’s plan, and offered to come for as little as $200.
RECORD PERFORMANCE
The Rebels enlisted the aid of Scholastic, the Student Council and the Law Club. Through the intercession of the Director of Student Activities permission was secured to go ahead with the project on Monday evening as a strictly student-sponsored affair. By Tuesday evening all arrangements had been completed for former Governor Arnall’s appearance here on Friday evening at Washington Hall—undoubtedly a record performance, considering the many and complex details facing these last-minute promoters. Certainly, this project should be an eye-opener for University authorities regarding student initiative, ability garding student initiative, ability and and responsibility.
The Rebels and their cohorts deserve not only carte blanche but a pat on the back and some cooperation as do all other worthy and considered student ventures along this line.
NO REVOLUTION
I have no desire to overthrow the University authorities and to set up complete student rule. I do think, however, that when students, at their own inita-tive and mostly at their own expense, want to do something really worthwhile for the University, the understanding and cooperation of administration authorities should be theirs, as, happily, was the case in the aforementioned Rebels, et al, affair. The success' of student activities, and more important, the success of students as Catholic lay leaders, depends to a large extent on their being given
5
opportunity to express their- originality.
The Rebel club, in any event, is to be commended for wanting to give Notre Dame a chance to hear an articulate spokesman for an enlightened South. Too many of us (I am included) think of the South as composed of millions of Talmadges, Rankins, and Bilbos, and we’re inclined to forget that the South is producing men and women who see that something is wrong down there and who are doing something about it. As a great Catholic university, Notre Dame should be the first to welcome a man who has done a great deal to erase unchristian influences like the Klan from the South.
I mentioned student initiative above. I also said that I do not want a University where the students do everything to the exclusion of the faculty. What I do want is pretty well summed up by Martin McLaughlin in the January issue of Coneord, and by the 1946 Executive Committee Report of the National Catholic Educational Association. Said the Association, in part,
“Specifically, we are content to believe that the independent college which is not a division of a large University and which fails to make the student an intregal part of its government is doomed. We are not here referring to student government as it is publicized. We mean exactly what the words denote. We stand for the largest measures of undergraduate responsibility commensurate with the genius of the individual institution. We do not advise that this plan be accepted in toto at once, but sincerity requires that it be honestly inaugurated where there has been any pretense at student control in the past. It is a much more difficult pattern than the dictatorship that exists in most colleges. It supposes much more education on the part of the students, much greater effort on the part of the teachers, and subjects administrators to much mightier hazards than the present “safe” approach ... We think that the corporate body of students should be given a constitution setting up the rights and duties of that body, that, if it maintains its part of the contract, it should be permitted to retain it in perpetuity.”
Restraint Necessary
Student initiative, certainly,. implied the correlative student duty of diligence, honesty and trust. It demands that the students, above all, practice restraint and temperance in whatever they do. But I think that students are capable of doing that. College students, after all,
£
BAD BUSINESS
“Oh, won’t you come to the Mardi Gras dance ticket. I’ll not go. Major you goon.” Three times a day, breakfast, dinner, and supper, I had to listen to this stuff. Why? A rebel told me it was to stimulate my senses, to wise me up, to make me flash three potatoes for a Mardi Gras dance ticket. I’ll not go. Major Robert Casurella, Sr., twice removed, fought with the Union forces at Bull Run, Richmond, Morgan’s Creek, and the five forty-five chow line. I grant that a Northerner with a buck in his pocket is
are not children. They are responsible people who. were it not for the fact that they were in college, would be earning their own money and controlling their own destinies. Groups like the Rebel club prove that students are interested in something more than football games, something more than Saturday night dances and Junior proms.
Nobody would be so naive to suggest that all students have initiative—that even the large part of the student body is actively interested in the world about them. But couldn’t the reason be that they are discouraged? That they are spoon-fed, cast aside with a “Go home little boy, and play with your toys” idea that breeds only discouragement and defeat? The few student leaders there are at present are leaders because they realize that a slow, evolutionary process is taking shape in the mind of educators and that some day the student will be recognized for the important part of the community which he is.
Maybe this column will offend someone. I sincerely hope not. For it was not meant in a spirit of “scorn”, not in a spirit of criticism, but in a spirit of hope and joy that there are students who are willing to go forth on their own and see something done. Perhaps it has been a tirade. It’s certainly a long way off my usual course. But it was something I had on my chest and had to get off. Thanks for staying, if you’re still with me.
Campus Clubs
)
By BOB CASURELLA
no better than a Southerner with a hole in his head, but that doesn’t patch up the century note I lost in last year’s Kentucky Derby.
THE ICE MAN COMETH
The Minnesota Club hockey team, M under the very able direction of one John “Blades” Fogarty, is rapidly moving toward championship form. Fogarty, who picked up' most of his experience on St. Paul municipal rinks, thinks the team will be ready in three weeks. Wingy Culligan and Leo Hamilton are front line men to watch. The club is having difficulty arranging games, and all hockey teams interested are requested to call Club President John Sullivan in Sorin Hall.
MUSIC FOR MILLIONS
With the merry tinkle of jangling coins in his pocket, Austie McNichols, smiling secretary of the Chicago Club, announced a big meeting for the boys tonight in the Law Auditorium. Frank Harrison’s treasury report is the big feature of the' meeting. From reports , | sent in via Lake Michigan and ye South Shore Railroade, the Chicago Club is rumored to be combing many dollars from its late activities. Looks like South Bend better lock up after the meeting— most of the boys will be heading for the Co-Hop.
ERNIE ZALEJSKI SCORES
Failing to win a ticket from the Student Council to Bermuda, failing to win a pass in the local caf for extra french fried potatoes, not even winning an extra chance on a Hupmobile in that company’s last official auction twenty years ago, Ernie Zalejski, the most promising football candidate for next year’s varsity, finally cashed in. He won an autographed football. This prize was raffled off by the Henry Wallace division of the Chicago Club, masquerading under the assumed name of the Calumet Club. Just f ) what Ernie will do with the pigskin remains a mystery.
> The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
iimtiiiiiiiHiiimimiiiitiiiiiitiitiitmammmHHmitmiiiimiiiiitiiiinemiaHiiMimmMimiiiiuiiuiui
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN Art	Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian ROBERT KOPF_______________Circulation
JOHN CLARK Circulation
B, F. KYSER  Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
.....................................................................................  linn
Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
Mardi Gras Carnival Fast Approaching ____________ 9
Former Georgia Gov. Ellis Amall Here Tonight_____ 9
Student String Quartet Unveiled _________________10
Rebel Romp Queen Awaited Eagerly ________________11
FEATURES
Be It Resolved: by Joe Dukert____14
SCHOLASTIC Covers, by Greg Halpin _______________16
Final Examinations—Cartoon and Story, by E. A. Cor-desman and J. A. O'Connor 18
SPORTS
Varsity Basketball Rolls Along 21
Kampus Keglers Roll, Too 21
Interhall Swimming ______________________________22
Track Season Opens With Missouri_________________23
Ciechanowicz Tops Interhall Wrestlers____________24
Fencing Team Shapes Up --------------------------25
ALSO—Don't miss SCHOLASTIC'S many and varied columns and departments—all of them interesting; most of them controversial.
CALENDAR
JANUARY 24
WHOT, Metropolitan Opera Matinee, direct from the N. Y. Met, featuring Helen Traubel and Lauritz Melchoir, two tackle candidates, in Wagner’s Die Walkure, 1 p. m. Better bolt your radio down, for with both Traubel and Melchoir huffing and puffing it may well be blown to smithereens. A brace of Belgian stallions, Valkyrian steeds, join in one of the lustier lyric blasts. Das ist goot!
JANUARY 26
EXAMINATIONS BEGIN. Some day those same professors who today strut and pound their bony chests and cackle at the plight of the lowly student will stand at a Higher Court and from their wizened bowels cry as now we students do, “Mercy, Lord! Mercy!”
RIVER PARK, The Hucksters, Clark Gable’s worst picture.
JANUARY 27
RIVER PARK, The Two Mrs. Carrolls, with Humphrey Bogart, Barbara Stanwyck and Alexis Smith. Not bad, but not the usual Bogart rough stuff. Companion feature, Passport to Nowhere, the story of college diploma in this day and age.
JANUARY 29
COLFAX, Killer McCoy, a prizefight picture with the toughest little runt on the MGM lot, in this corner, in cerise trunks, Mickey Rooney! Though he’s not the lovable little ragamuffin of 10 years ago, Rooney can still act rings around most of the men twice his size.
JANUARY 30
EXAMINATIONS END. Between-semesters vacation begins. Franklin D. Roosevelt’s birthday. All the faithful will bow in the direction of Hyde Park.
PALACE, It Happened on 5th Avenue, a comical yarn with an old favorite, Victoi- Moore, who knows how to ilve.
FEBRUARY 2
NOTRE DAME versus KENTUCKY, basketball, at the fieldhouse. Last year’s rangy national champs are heavy favorites, but spirited backing from the student body may spur the Irish on to glorious heights. Drive ’em back to the hills!
REGISTRATION for classes begin.
' FEBRUARY 4
NOTRE DAME versus BUTLER, basketball, at Indianapolis.
FEBRUARY 5	-
CLASSES BEGIN at 8:00 in the morning. It’s a long stretch till June.	-
NOTRE DAME versus DETROIT, basketball, there.
FEBRUARY 6
MARDI GRAS, Rebel Club Dance, Palais Royale, Bob Ruehle’s orchestra.
7
fyutm tke>	.
Examination of Conscience
The end of a semester and the end of an editor’s regime are equally fitting opportunities for editorial examination of conscience. Taken together, these occasions demand such over-all comprehension.
Fourteen issues ago Scholastic’s new editorial staff presented its “raison d’etre.” In essence it viewed the function of the magazine as “both a medium and an instrument in the development of genuine student leadership, responsibility and initiative.” “To this end,” the editorial continued, “Scholastic opens its letters column to the expression of intelligent student opinion; it will report and take its stand in support and defense of reasoned attempts to assume real responsibility in student affairs, and encourage student initiative in this field. And in particular Scholastic will work to defeat the general apathy so obviously entrenched among students, and will seek the means of revitalizing this student community in preparation for its debut in the modern world.”
In what fashion has Notre Dame’s student magazine fulfilled its self-imposed function? The moment befits a brief survey of the role Scholastic has played thus far.
Perhaps the best indication of reader interest, fundamental in any attempt to arouse student opinion and initiative, is the amount of space devoted to letters. Week after week Scholastic has devoted several columns of space to its readers’ letters, and this feature has rapidly become one of the magazine’s most popular. Purely student activities have consistently been afforded priority rating as far as space and position are concerned; notice, for example, the coverage accorded class and student council elections; the plugs and pleadings for greater student participation in these elections; and the all-out backing given the Foreign Student Relief Campaign.
Editorially, Scholastic has applauded YCS-Blue Circle aid to freshmen, and the fine personal relations existing between Notre Dame men and West Point Cadets; defended the Met Club in its attempted promotion of the “Player of the Week” program and the Rebels Club in their efforts, successful this week, on behalf of ex-Georgia Governor Ellis Arnall’s appearance here; it has cajoled the Student Council’s confused sessions; belabored those re-1 sponsible for the precarious conditions on Homicide Highway; and thrown its full weight behind the Student Relief Campaign. Scholastic has sought to crystallize and report student opinion on a number of occasions, and with the advent of a new semester intends to develop this into a weekly department where considered student views, in sizable numbers, can be presented each week.
Just how successful, or otherwise, Scholastic has been or will be in the future remains a matter of conjecture. However, it does not remain a matter of indifference. For it is the firm conviction of the editorial staff that intelligent student opinion should be considered of primary importance on this and every college campus, for here at Notre Dame the development of Catholic lay leadership is the fundamental aim of education. Initiative and responsibility, as greatly overworked as these words are, nevertheless constitute leadership, and without a flourishing student interest and opinion these qualities will never be found in sufficient quantity. It is certainly a truism that college “boys” do not become “men” merely upon receipt of a degree, although all too often such a belief is evidenced in the actions of educators and administrators.
All of which brings up the case of Scholastic at Notre Dame in 1947-48. This news magazine is the University’s official weekly student publication. As such it reaches the entire student body, most of the faculty and administration members, and many of the employees at Notre Dame, comprising about 75 per cent of its total circulation. The remaining 25 per cent is scattered throughout the nation and, to a limited extent, abroad. Therefore, Scholastic’s obligation and responsibility is obvious: to bring to its readers the week-by-week story of Notre Dame — in word and picture — as seen and reported, analyzed, interpreted and commented upon by students. To discharge this responsibility thoroughly, objectively and interestingly — in other words, in the same fashion all other publications are expected to perform — Scholastic must have first-hand £ access to the sources of news, on at least equal terms with any and all other publications, especially in view of the uncontestable fact that all functions, events and happenings here at Notre Dame concern, ultimately, the student body, for whose benefit the University itself exists.
That such, all too often, has not been the case — that Scholastic frequently has been shunted about and forced to gather its reports of certain events from second-hand sources (thus losing the peculiarly collegiate touch expected of Scholastic and other college publications) has been too obviously the case in the past.
To Scholastic, the situation is symptomatic of an unfortunate and potentially harmful condition. In a growing number of instances the best interests of the student are being relegated to a secondary position, if not entirely neglected. Careful scrutiny of Scholastic over the past months should reveal convincing evidence of this. The apparent status of minor sports and inter-hall athletics as “poor cousins” offers a case in point — as does the lamentable condition of Notre Dame’s lecture-concert series, which should offer N. D. students the opportunity for contact with the finest in the realms of art, music, literature, drama and current affairs. Nor is this restricted to the field of activities. All too often it is true of day-to-day contacts between student and administrator, employee, and faculty member. Realizing the danger of generalizations such as these. Scholastic believes, nevertheless, that such relationships have been impersonal, disinterested and unsympathetic to an extent sufficient to warrant such a broad statement.
Although Scholastic would be the first to point out that conditions have hardly reached a crisis, it does view the situation as an alarming trend. When student interests are considered secondarily it is an unmistakable sign of a disproportionate sense of values.
To halt this trend must be the objective of all concerned: students, faculty, administrators and employees — and should be a primary7 aim of every activity undertaken. In every instance of student activity the undergraduates must seek to discharge any responsibility incurred completely. Their aim must be to demonstrate conclusively that they can be entrusted with the care and administra-	!
tion of their own problems and activities. And administra-	;
tration and faculty must keep their eyes open to such '■ proof (as convincingly displayed in the management of the Student Relief Campaign and the successful last-minute arrangements for ex-Govemor Amall, a public service entirely student-sponsored and student-financed) and cooperate with and promote this vital activity.
8

• The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 14
JANUARY 23, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Ex-Governor Arnall to Speak Tonight
Expect Noted Liberal To Draw Full House
Famed Ellis Arnall, recently Governor of Georgia and one of the South’s greatest liberals, speaks here tonight at Washington Hall. 7:30 p. m. marks the time for his appearance. It also marks the first entirely student-sponsored public service at Notre Dame. Admission is free to all—students, faculty and townspeople. Conceived by Notre Dame’s Rebels Club and co-sponsored by the Scholastic, Student Council and the Law Club, this inaugural program is entirely student-financed and arranged.
Ellis Gibbs Arnall, who calls himself a democrat with a small “d”, was, at the time of his election as Governor of Georgia in 1942, the youngest state chief executive. When he became governor at the age of 35, the magnolia-scented traditions of that demagogue-ridden state went out the rear door of the capital and a fresh political breeze swept through the corridors. The State’s finances were overhauled and its debt was paid off for the first time in over a century.
Political Cyclone Hits Georgia
A new, streamlined constitution was adopted, the poll tax eliminated and the vote given to youth at the age of 18. Modernization changed the notorious Georgia penal system. The Ku Klux Klan was vigorously assailed as it began to renew its activities. In short, a political cyclone hit Georgia, ripping out musty ways and institutions.
Picked by the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt to announce his fourth term candidacy to the press, Governor Arnall enjoyed high favor and confidence as a spokesman for southern democracy. When he left office in January, 1946, prevented from succeeding himself by the Georgia constitution, he turned his efforts to the lecture platform from which he continues to discuss the South and its political-economic future in the nation.
EX-GOVERNOR ARNALL
For a fiery speaker — a full house
Release for Keenan; New Boss O'Connor Heads Mag
With this issue Scholastic Editoi* Frank Keenan completes his final undergraduate semester, ends his tenure of office, and hands over the reins of the magazine to John A. O’Connor, present associate editor.
Keenan broke into the Scholastic ranks in 1941 as a news and sports writer; then the Navy intervened and sent him off to sea. Upon returning to school in the fall of ’46, Keenan became associate news editor and later was elevated to associate editor. He assumed the editor’s throne at the start of this semester.
O’Connoi- joined the magazine in 1946 as a news writer, then turned to sports and ended up penning “The Week.” A senior in journalism, he became an associate editor this semester.
Joseph A. Doyle, a journalism junior from Stockton, Ill., will fill O’Connor’s former post as associate editor.
Super Relief Carnival Gets Underway Feb. 9
By KEN THOREN
Such super-superlatives as sensational, stupendous, spectacular and super-colossal have nearly met their death at the verbose hands of the nation’s hucksters. Before their bier is lowered, however, they must be pressed into service once again, for they are the only existing adjectives that can do full justice to Notre Dame’s rapidly approaching Foreign Student Relief Mardi Gras. The extravaganza carnival will be held in the Navy Drill Hall on the nights of February 9 and 10.
26 Booths to Be Operated
The final settlement of all details was accomplished last Monday night at a joint meeting of campus club presidents and standing committees for the pre-Lenten celebration. Bill Duggan, chairman of the festival, announced that 26 booths will be constructed and operated by the clubs.
Buffalo is to take care of the coke concession. La Raza Club is offering a small combo to supplement the major musical aggregation. Oklahoma will have a paddle sale, while the InterAmerican Affairs group will sponsor a dart game. The members of the Syrian-Lebanese organizations are to take charge of a chuck-a-luck wheel.
Revelers will be able to throw baskets at the Philadelphia booth or participate in hoop-throwing at the Washington-Maryland-Virginia stand. Students should be particularly interested in Central Illinois’ golf chipping. Connecticut will manage another dart booth while the husky mastodons of the Monogram Club take care of bingo. Denizens of New Jersey will be temporary weight-guessers while the St. Louis group sells hams.
(Continued on Page 32)
9
Music Head Unveils New String Quartet
Distinctive string music of the classical, romantic and modern periods is featured by the Notre Dame String Quartet, newest musical organization to be inaugurated at the University of Notre Dame, according to Dr. Daniel H. Pedtke, Director of the Music Dept.
The new String Quartet, under the direction of Professor Charles Biondo of the Department of Music, consists of four Notre Dame students: Edward Ci-prus, of Lakewood, 0., and Paul Folchi, Norwood, 0., violinists; Wayne Chandler, of Mishawaka, Ind., violist; and Otto Kopp, Brooklyn, N. Y., cellist.
The quartet’s first campus concert— the first such concert by any student group—will be February 10. Among other selections planned is a quartet by Haydn.
The quartet, which made its public debut in a recent appearance in South Bend, features a rare and unaccompanied duet of violin and viola, played respectively by Ciprus and Chandler. The duet is rare because it is played entirely without accompaniment, and is extremely novel because it is a “Passa-caglia,” written in strict classical style as might have been heard in the late 1700’s.
Subsequent chamber music recitals are projected for the group in the form of chamber orchestra programs featuring the works of Bach, Handel, Gluck and other masters, in the form of trios for violin, cello and piano, and duets for violin and piano.
Professor Biondo, a native of Mamaroneck, N. Y., has had considerable experience as violin soloist, composer, arranger and conductor.
One-Seventh of Students Earning While Learning
Approximately one out of every seven students at the University is employed, according to Mrs. Inez Van Scoik who is in charge of student employment.
Although the student breadwinners claim their largest group in the dining halls, they are also employed at such varied positions as office, library, and laboratory assistants, laundry workers, student prefects, building custodians, personal secretaries, newscarriers, etc.
Incidentally, it is likable Mrs. “Van” who is responsible for the inter-office messenger service at the University, thus creating another means for students to help themselves through college.
10
REGISTRATION
The registration procedure for the coming semester will be even simpler than it was for this semester, thanks partly to the efforts of the SCHOLASTIC, one of whose suggestions was adopted. Presupposing that the account has been settled in advance, the whole operation will be completed in four steps: (1) filling out a census card, (2) picking up class cards, (3) having the ID card revalidated, and (4) picking up the laundry card. The first three steps will take place on one line in the Navy Drill Hall while the fourth will be at the laundry.
Cleveland Club Nets Student Relief Dough;
Teaches Lesson, Too
The Cleveland Club gave a lesson in successful dance management last Saturday night at the Vetville Rec Hall, and ironically, didn’t reap a cent for its efforts.
Fired with determination to aid the Student Relief Campaign, the Sixth City lads found an open night on the activities schedule, signed up the Cavaliers, procured late permissions for N.D. and St. Mary’s dancers, and set out to prove how much entertainment can be had for a dollar.
Free bus service to the hall awaited couples as they departed from St. Mary’s into the sub-zero night. The rec hall itself proved to be the right size for such an affair, and the club had placed enough of a sheen on its concrete floor to make for good dancing, not shoeruining, or ice skating. The orchestra blew itself out of hopped-up numbers early enough to please the conventional crowd with a series of down-to-earth danceable tunes.
The coke, packed in snow, sold for a nickel a bottle, causing untold confusion to regular dance goers who have been weaned on the 10-cent variety sold at victory dances.
As the clock struck quitting time, the busses were waiting to give their dancers another free lift back to St. Mary’s, and Club President Bill Braun with Chairman Roult were figuring that all told, the relief campaign netted $20 from the affair.
What he was too modest to figure is that over 128 couples had been treated to a very .pleasant evening for a very nominal fee by a type of affair which could be staged more often, if not quite so masterfully.
Star-Laden Chi Club 0 Rat Race Next Week
The big, fast-moving Chicago Club is on the go again. This time it is a be-tween-semester dance, the profits of which will be turned over to the European Student Relief Drive.
The dance will be held on January 31 in the huge Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel. Bids, which will be $4.00, will be sold at the door. Emmett “Tip” O’Neill, chairman of the dance, has stated that there will be plenty of tables for the guests. Jim McShane’s orchestra, which has been playing to capacity crowds in and around Chicago, has been chosen for the affair. Chicago Club president Ed Hoban and his organization, working in cooperation with the Chicago alumni, hope to make this the biggest and most memorable event of the club.
Phil Regan, Irish tenor who has been setting records at the gold-laced Empire Room of the Palmer House, will be present as guest of O’Neill. Regan will come with a shillelagh on his shoulder and a “free-swinging Irish ballad on his tongue.”
Other “big names” expected to be present are Dorothy Shay, the Park Avenue hillbilly; movie star Esther Williams; Bonnie Baker, song stylist; and balladier Zygmont Czarobski.
Railroads Offer Students Special College Tickets
College students and faculty members may now buy return trip railroad tick-ets with an extended time limit, accord- W ing to an announcement of the Association of American Railroads, thus eliminating the necessity of buying a one-way ticket when the return trip will not be made within the usual three month limit.
Under this new system the student or faculty member must buy the ticket in his home station and signify that he wants a “College Special” round-trip ticket. This can be done only during limited periods in the fall, at Christmas time, and at Spring Vacation time. Likewise, the return portion will be honored only during limited periods ar Christmas time, at Spring Vacation time, and at the end of the school year. The student or faculty member buying his ticket at Christmas time has a choice of returning at Spring Vacation time t or at the end of the school year. Before returning at any time, however, the re-turn portion of the ticket must be vali-dated at the ticket window before boarding the train.
> Drooling Boll Weevils Await Arrival of Rebel Romp Queen
Every boll weevil north of the Mason-Dixon Line has been alerted as old King Cotton prepares to send his whistleprovoking 1947 Maid into dreaded Yankee-land to reign over the Rebel Club’s Mardi Gras at the Palais Royale, Feb. 6.
And over in Lyons Hall Willoughby Marshall, the unfortunate graduate architect student who must escort the five-foot, six-inch, brown-eyed, cotton-clad chunk of Memphis
---... —----------------- .
Rebel Dance Details
PLACE—Palais Boyale Bailroom DATE—Friday. February 6, 1948 TIME—9 to 1. 2 a. m. permissions MUSIC—Bob Ruehle and. Orchestra plus colored combo DRESS—Semiformal
TRANSPORTATION—Car privileges; chartered buses will start leaving the Circle at 8 p. m. for St. Mary's and the Palais; return buses will start leaving for St. Mary's and Notre Dame at 12:45 a. m.
BIDS—On sale in caf basement noon and evenings and in all halls—$3.00 per couple
pulchritude to the dance, was polishing up his best brand of
Southern hospitality.	.
Meanwhile the Rebel braintrust was hashing over- final
preparations for their annual pre-Lenten romp. Slated to be maids of honor to the queen were: Miss Nancy Curry and Miss Rosemary Paulin, both of Chicago, and guests of CoChairmen Bill Slavick and Dick Bevington respectively, along with Mrs. Coy McGee, whose mister- is president of the Rebels.
The dance itself will be semi-formal—making the gals wear formals while their dates have the choice of tweeds, plaids, etc.
Bob Ruehle and his orchestra, currently occupying the stage of Chicago’s Hotel Sheraton and a South Bend colored
HUMA SEAY—REBELS' MARDI GRAS QUEEN The boll weevils had cause for concern
combo have signed on the dotted line to provide a continuous flow of music from 9 to 1. And the Lord High Keeper of Permissions has been induced to draw deeply into his stores and come up with 2 o’clocks for N.D. students and 1:30 for the St. Mary’s social set.
But at St. Mary’s the situation was not so rosy. The .	(Continued on Page 31)
MAIDS OF HONOR TO THE QUEEN OF THE MARDI GRAS Miss Rosemary Paulin	Miss Nancy Curry	Mrs. Coy McGee
11
Air ROTC Shines In First Uniformed Drill;
Moves Toward Total Peacetime Preparedness
Men on the campus were pulling on extra sweaters last January 13 for quick dashes to classrooms, but they were attracted by a debut that got more attention than winter’s first sub-zero blasts. An outcropping of students in new uniforms put an end to speculation and rumor about an Air ROTC unit on the campus. Members of the newly organized ROTC squadron were stepping gingerly across the ice-coatel campus to the drill hall and their first uniformed review.
A policy of preparedness and defensive strength on the part of the United States had become the accepted formula for permanent world peace. Students were seeing in Air ROTC a little more proof-positive that their school was not neglecting duty.
On that first day, “Do they issue you those uniforms?” was the common question. “That’s right,” the ARO would answer, glancing at his dark-green officer’s blouse, “pink” trousers, and service-visored cap.
Planning had begun several months before the auspicious appearance of the squadron in uniform. A nucleus of over 60 students had begun classroom work at the beginning of the fall semester last September. Still in civilian clothes, veterans and non-veterans organized flights (platoons), and got used to Reah, Harsch! during that hour-a-week close order drill.
Lieut. Col. Leonard W. Palmer, professor of military science and tactics (commanding officer), and Major Arthur Small, executive officer, spent the last of the hot, summer weeks preparing letters of information to be sent to eligible students. This is the way they explain it. Veterans entering the program at the start of their junior year receive commissions in the Air Reserve upon graduation. The non-veteran student enters in his freshman year. The vet gets two years credit for his previous time in the service, Col. Palmer explained, and enters the advanced course directly.
A few veterans entering the courses still nursed a little inherent skepticism about anything connected with a uniform; but it had evaporated by the time they saw their GI subsistence allowance increased by about one-third at the first pay call. All Air ROTC students are paid about $24 a month during their junior and senior years. -
In addition to the one-hour of drill a week, the reserve officer trainee has four class-hours a week, collecting three elective credits. Courses include military law, guided missiles, meteorology, air operations, air intelligence, and are illustrated
by sound movies about current air progress.
Col. Palmer explains that graduates may apply for active duty with the airforce, if they desire to. Air ROTC graduates have second priority for Army flight training at Randolph Field, he said. U. S. Military Academy (West Point) graduates having the first priority.
Ceremonies Honor Founder of C.S.C.
Two ceremonies were held this week to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the death of the Rev. Basil A. Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the religious order which administers Notre Dame.
The cause of Father Moreau has been officially introduced in the Diocese of Le Mans, France, by the ArchbishopBishop of that See. A diocesan tribunal has been established and the Holy See has appointed as Postulator, Monsignor Fontanelle, Pronotary Apostolic and Canon of the Basilica of St. Peter in Rome.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, celebrated a Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church on January 18 at which the students joined in the observance of the anniversary. The Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C.,-vice-president of the University, delivered the sermon.
Priests and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross observed the anniversary at a Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church on January 20, 75 years to the day after the death of Father Moreau. The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., United States Provincial of the priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, celebrated the Mass for the Community. The Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., delivered the sermon.
Father Moreau was born February 11, 1799 near Le Mans, France and was ordained 22 years later. He then spent two years with the Sulpicians in Paris and at Issy.
In 1833 he founded the Good Shepherd Monastery at Le Mans, and laid the first foundation for his society of priests. In 1835 he took over the direction of the Brothers of St. Joseph, and on March 1, 1837, he united the Auxiliary Priests and the Brothers of St. Joseph into the Association of Holy Cross. In 1857 the order was definitely approved as the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Book Exchange Doors Open G For Business Next Week
A survey to determine what text books now used at the University which will not be used next semester is being completed and B-X doors will swing open at 8:30 a.m. Wednesday morning (Jan. 28), according to Hugh Lane, student manager of the B-X.
Lane urges all students to turn in old books before February 4 in order to obtain a priority card allowing first chance to purchase texts on February 5 and 6. A minimum of three must be turned in to obtain the red ducat.
During 1947 the non-profit B-X, a service of the YCS organization, handled over $5,000 worth of books saving students thousands of dollars and untold hours of time by centralizing the buying (J and selling, on a cooperative basis.
Prices are set at about 70% of new value, considered about right to insure seller a decent return and buyer a failprice. A 10% service charge covers all expenses of the project.
By making continued use of both buying and selling functions of the B-X a student obtains use of his books for just the 10% charge, so that a student buying a history book at the exchange for $2.70 can turn it back at the end of the semester and as long as the book is still in use at Notre Dame receive back $2.43. That means he pays 27 cents to use the book for a semester.
Beginning Jan. 28 the B-X will be open daily 8:30 to 4:30 except Saturday when it will be open in the morning only.
CAA Has Communications $ Openings For Alaskan Duty
The Civil Aeronautics Administration has openings for a number of qualified single men as aircraft communicators in Alaska, at starting salaries of $3,306 a year.
Successful applicants will be assigned to the 45 airways communications stations operated by the C.A.A. along Alaskan airways.
Basic qualifications for the jobs are the ability to transmit and receive International Morse Code at minimum speed of 30 words a minute; to touch typewrite at 35 words a minute; and 18 months of aeronautical communications experience or an acceptable equivalent in education and experience.
Applicants should send Form 57, which is the standard application for Federal employment at most post offices, 0 to the C.A.A. Aeronautical Center, P. O. * Box 1082, Oklahoma City 1, Oklahoma.
12
I Council Hears Report On Progress of Drive
Highlighting the final Student Council meeting of the semester was a report by Lou Burns, chairman of the Student Relief Committee, on the progress of the drive thus far. Burns informed the Council that at present the receipts for the donation total $4,460.75, and that the Committee has a bank balance of $5,704.65. He also announced that the Committee has received checks from non-student donors for as much as $100 and $250. On the debit side, he stated that the two autos to be given away will cost $5,100. Burns added that campaign results for student donations were unsatisfactory.
ti/. With regard to plans for the future, * Burns said that the Committee intended to sponsor a carnival, in cooperation with the clubs on the campus, in the Navy Drill Hall on February 9 and 10, to last from 9 o’clock until 11:30 on Monday, and from 7:30 until 11:30 on Tuesday evening. He added that several hundred girls from the Co-Hop Club will be on hand to act as dancing partners. (See story on page 9.—Editor.)
Two January graduates attended their last Student Council meeting Monday night. They were John Cowhey, chairman of the enquiry committee, and Martin Rock, chairman of the election committee. Kevin Harrigan and Bob x Duffy, respectively, replaced the two seniors as heads of the committees.
Regarding the letter printed last week in the Scholastic, Martin Rock indignantly moved that the Council “save the Scholastic the expense of printing such tiash” by publishing a comprehensive report of its activities and accomplishments for this semester. The motion was passed unanimously.
President Ralph Thorson then suggested that the hall representatives form hall councils next semester in order to facilitate future Council activities. Thorson then relinquished the Chair to Ivo Fatigati, vice-president of the Council, in order to move that the Council set up a monetary fund to be used for awards to the student displaying the greatest talent in writing a campus production. This motion was also passed.	'
Thorson once more took the Chair to announce that the next meeting will be held on February 9, and adjourned the meeting. The members then remained to ~ hear a lecture on parliamentary pro" cedure by Professor Eisen of the Speech
Department.	—Bill Bradley
Graduates of '47 Inaugurate Annual Stain Glass Memorial
Inaugurating what is hoped to become an annual class memorial, the Class of ’47 has acquired several designs for stained glass windows for Alumni Hall. Among the artistic designs that were offered included those from Professor Francis Hanley and the T. C. Esser Company of Milwaukee. Last June’s graduating class allotted $1,000 for this project.
With the approval of his class, George Sullivan, president of the senior class, intends to carry on the tradition. The Esser company has announced their availability to continue the uniformity of the program. The general theme is Christ, the Educator, the Teacher.
MEMORIAL WINDOW DESIGNS
For departing seniors — a project
Blue Circle Greeters Give All But Victory to Visitors
Each athletic team to visit the campus during the past three semester, before being treated to a merciless handling on the field of sport, have seen the true Notre Dame hospitality in action. The Blue Circle, the University’s tradition and spirit organization, has been instrumental in assuring these visitors an enjoyable and smooth-running stay in South Bend.
Before each visiting squad arrives, the Blue Circle’s Hospitality Committee writes the manager, finds out its arriving date, checks on accommodations, makes sure that any of the visitor’s wants are satisfied (excluding a victory), and then, when they actually do arrive, a couple of members meet them and get things off to a sure start. If time permits, the visiting atheltes are treated to a tour of the campus. Visiting dignitaries outside the realm of sports
also receive this super service.
Heading the committee for this year has been Jack Sanders, a pre-med junior from Hamilton, Ohio. Also on the committee are: Tom Green, Bill Denning, Terry Armstrong, Don Barlow, Phil Jensen, Bernie Powers, Curran Higgins, Bob Connelly, Dick Gorman, Tom Jackson, Bob Bates and Bill Eggers.
Economic Institute Holds Essay Contest
A first prize of $1,000 with 13 additional awards amount to $2,000, will be distributed to college students by the Tamiment Social and Economic Institute, for the best 5,000 to 6,000 word essay on “An American Program for World Peace in the Present Crisis,” submitted to its second annual contest. Closing date of the contest is April 23, 1948.
Briefly, the rules of the contest are:
1.	eligible: The contest is open to all undergraduate college students in recognized colleges of the United States. A contestant may submit but one essay. Entry blanks will be sent on request.
2.	MANUSCRIPTS: No manuscript will be accepted unless it is typed, doublespaced. Only one side of the sheet should be used and margins should be wide. Manuscripts must be original, unpublished works.
3.	mailing OF MANUSCRIPT: Send manuscript immediately upon completion to Tamiment Institute Contest, 7 East 15th Street, New York 3, N. Y. No manuscript will be returned unless accompanied by stamped, addressed envelope. In submitting the manuscript, the author should type full name, college and home address, telephone number, and name of college on a separate sheet of paper clipped to essay. The manuscript will be coded by the Institute to insure anonymity.
4.	RIGHT OF PUBLICATION: The rights and title to the prize-winning essays, including the right of publication, will be retained by the Institute.
According to Louis Waldman, Chairman of the Institute’s Essay Committee, the purpose of the award is to stimulate college students to constructive thought on matters of social and economic importance. College students must realize the necessity of having a point of view, and of making that point of view a vital force as alert members of the public. The response to the initial contest is proof that today’s student is strongly concerned with social and economic questions,’ and has a valuable contribution to make to the study of current trends and events.
13
THE BIG TWO OF IRISH DEBATING. SAM HAZO (LEFT) AND FRANK FINN. STRIKE A TYPICAL ACTION POSE
BEIT
Irish Sons of Pro and Con Sharpen Verbs fo Battle For 3rd Straight National Championship
RESOLVED:
14
)	By JOE DUKERT
A.P. “second guess” polls may have shaken the faith of some sports writers in Notre Dame’s outright football superiority, but few experts will fail to acknowledge the supremacy of the University’s little-publicized debating team, aiming this season for its third national championship in a”> many years.	/
Like its “big brother” activities, however, debating is far from all glory and no work. Its ten-month season begins a few days after the opening of school and stays in high gear right up to the wire in June.
Initial turnouts sometimes run as high as 50 or more; and since only about 15 are eligible for the varsity, the weeding-out process is conducted at a rapid pace. At first, meetings are held tri-weekly and include discussion periods, practice debates and fundamental instruction in public speaking and debate logic by Professor Leonard Sommer, N.D. debate mentor. Here candidates discover that a smooth line of chatter or a pleasant speaking voice aren’t enough to | qualify. According to Professor Sommer, “A mental battle like debating requires alertness, intelligence, good logical thinking, and a tremendous volume of work.”
Individual Research Stressed
Most of the debaters will agree that the last-mentioned requisite is definitely stressed. Research must be carried on individually at first, and the opinions of all types of organizations on the topic, in this case, federal world government, must be solicited. Hall mailmen began eyeing the debaters suspiciously as letter after letter goes out to the Daily Worker, the Communist Party of America, the Socialist Club of Indiana, and other such organizations.	„
Figuring prominently in the selection of the squad is the showing of the aspirants in the interhall tournament and the practice intra-squad debates. After several weeks of practice and elimination, the field is narrowed to the varsity team. This year, the team includes Frank Finn, president; James Beymer, vice-president; Tim Kelley, corresponding secretary; Sam Hazo, James Reedy, Will Dixon, Will Carey, Walton Collins, Lou Duerinck, Joe Dukert, Tom Ninneman, Quintin Marlow, Lawrence Gilling, and Joe Shelley.
Once the varsity has been selected, the real work—and fun—begins. This year’s agenda includes 95 exhibition and competitive debates, covering several thousand miles. Of the 14 team members, some will confine their activities for the most part to exhibition matches in South Bend, but some •will travel as far as West Point to participate in tournaments.
Debating Like Football
These debate excursions are handled in much the same manner as football trips. Professor Sommer draws up a list of prospective tournaments, along with a budget, and submits to the officers of the University. Once approved, the trips must be arranged carefully and quickly. Train reservations, hotel accommodations and official acceptance of the invitations must be taken care of.
Once at the tourney, the debaters have little opportunity to “see the town”; the debates begin at 8 a.m. During the day, each man will be required to participate in as many as eight debates and six discussion periods. With what little spare time he has, he is expected to take part in contests in oratory, extemporaneous, impromptu, and after-dinner speaking. By 10 p.m., the day’s competitions and exercises are over, and the debater is free—except that he’s usually too tired to do much celebrating.	;
Coach Sommer displays one of Star Debater Finn's awards
Team Vice-President James Beymer holds the floor
Freshman debaters — Dukert, Gilling, Ninnemin, Carey, Duer-■ nick. Marlow, Dixon, and Collins —in
15
On the second day, the schedule is the same; but the entire third day is devoted to a parliamentary congress. Here, in an all-day session governed by parliamentary procedure, national issues are discussed; and resolutions are adopted which are later sent .to Washington “It is here,” says Professor Sommer, “that the most valuable experience of all is obtained. As many as 100 schools participate, each bringing witn them four to six representatives.
“Here the debater gets an opportunity to hear and exchange ideas with a cross-section of America—all nationalities, all schools of thought: Catholics, Protestants, Jews, atheists, Communists, Socialists, those who love our country and those with un-American tendencies. It provides a bird’s-eye view of humanity.”
Among the staunchest supporters of Professor Sommer’s theories and debat-inj in general are Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., president and vice-president of the University. In congratulatory messages after the Irish won their second consecutive national debate championship last spring, they stated that they were “very happy to learn that we are given 'excellency’ ratings in other things besides football.”
Clearly disproving the idea that Notre Dame is strictly an athletic school, the debaters have engaged in 13 forensic encounters this year, dropping only one. Their single loss, in the Iowa Invitational Tournament, was offset by seven victories in the same tourney, enough to net them first place, as well as “superior” ratings in debate and discussion.
Largely responsible for the team’s success is Professor Leonard Sommer. He was brought here in 1945 for the express purpose of organizing and direct'ng debate and discussion teams for intercollegiate competition. During the war, debate had been dropped from the list of activities, and the new coach proved to be the necessary spark for its revitalization.
With eight years of high school and college debating, as well as speech training at Marquette University, behind him, Professor Sommer, a member of Delta Sigma Rho, the National Forensic League, and other honorary debate societies, was well prepared for the task facing him.
But if Professor Sommer can be compared with Coach Leahy, then certainly Frank Finn, a junior from Denison, Texas, could be termed debating’s Johnny Lujack. During the 1945-’46 season, Finn captured the national individual speaking title while only a freshman.
(Continued on Page 30)
Amusing or Confusing $ Covers Still Present Problems to Editors
“It’s a bird!”
“It’s a plane!”
“I give up — just what is it?”
Current odds run about 20 to 1 that the foregoing is referring to last week’s Scholastic cover. Last Friday afternoon the Notre Dame student was subjected to the biggest puzzle since “Miss Hush.” The frustration resulting from its inabilities to solve the photographic gyrations of Scholastic editors and photographers has led him to lay down a barrage of queries. The Scholastic therefore takes this opportunity to explain the cover in question and to relate A the blood, sweat and tears story behind the conception of a weekly cover.
The long labor starts Wednesday night at the weekly staff meeting. There rhe question of a cover first rears its ugly head and sends the mental marvels into their respective idea pits to mine something timely, new and different. On rare occasions the list mounts into the hundreds before a decision is made. Then the battle really begins.
For at this point Photo Editor Jim Ferstel steps into the melee and gives his professional opinion as to the technical feasibility of the accepted brainstorm. He raves that it is impossible to take such a picture; he rants that the collective editors have lost their collective minds, he screams that such things are not done. He shows up Sunday night with the picture.
The first cover (No. 184498) was no W problem. All Ferstel had to do was find a representative student in a representative condition after registration and put him through a representative phase of said registration. The result was the sorrowful visage of the returning Notre Dame student as he faced the fall semester.
The opening of the football season presented the next week’s cover. Again it was Ferstel and his amazing camera that made the idea a reality. His result (All Eyes on Football) was a warmiy dressed student peering through field glasses, upon which were superimposed football action pictures, fitted over the lenses of the glasses.	:
Scholastic made its first bid at tying in the cover with its main feature the	;
next week. It’s a neat trick if you can	'
do it and done it was with the SMOKE, SMOKE, SMOKE cover of that week.
The cast of characters for this one in- " eluded packs of Luckies, Chesterfields,
16
'A Camels, Bull Durham and Photographer Paul Jackson doing a neat cigarette rolling job in the center.
Scholastic highlighted the Prefect of Discipline “No Smoking” campaign on Dec. 5. Rev. Howard Kenna C.S.C., the director of studies, graciously donated his habit which Jackson wore to tap John McCormick on the shoulder as he lit his pipe in front of one of the new signs.
Editor Frank Keenan found himself playing Santa Claus the following week as the hardships of European students were pictured in collaboration with the student relief drive opening on campus.
Last week? Here’s the answer.
The picture did represent something and did have a real significance. It was a bronze mask of Christ as photographed by Jackson. He saw the mask 0 while doing coverage on the Mediaeval Institute feature and couldn’t resist his artistic impulses. The editors could not resist the artistic results.
Vet Administration Extends Life Insurance Deadline
Veterans Administration has extended the deadline for liberal reinstatement of G-I insurance (National Service Life Insurance) from December 31, 1947, to July 31, 1948.
The extension gives World War II veterans additional time to reinstate lapsed insurance without necessarily taking a physical examination.
To reinstate prior to July 31, 1948, a veteran generally needs only to certify that his health is as good as it was on . date of lapse and pay two monthly pre-™ miums.
Postal laws and regulations pertaining to the delivery of checks for a number of benefits administered by Veterans Administration have been modified for the greater convenience of veterans and beneficiaries receiving the checks.
The new regulations allow the checks to be placed in city and county post office boxes, and in mail receptacles on the routes of city or rural mail carriers.
WATCH IT. BUD!
VETERANS' EARNINGS
If your earnings, in addition to your subsistence allowance, from the period of Sept. 15, 1947 to Jan. 31, 1948 average more than $110.00 per month, you must file VA Form 7-1963, Report of Compensation from Productive Labor. This Form must be certified by your employer. The Forms may be obtained at the Veterans Administration Office, Main Building.
CHRISTMAS IN EUROPE
THE $64 QUESTION
Juggler Appears Next Week; Board to Give Writers Cash Prizes
Notre Dame’s literary publication, The Juggler, will make its second appearance during the approaching week of final examinations. The University Board of Publications has announced that $200.00 in cash prizes will be awarded to students whose work in The Juggler is judged outstanding in their respective fields. The current issue will not contain any major style changes except that it will not include a photographic section. Francis X. Duggan, editor, has prepared a series of sketches to supplant this feature.	।
The forthcoming issue promisesto deliver more fare in the field of fiction than previous ones have. It is interesting to note that there are no repeaters from among former fiction contributors except Duggan. The magazine will, therefore, provide an interesting comparison of styles. Readers will be introduced to the work of freshmen Robert Thompson of Long Beach, California, and Walter Clements of So. Bend, Ind.
Hollywood comes under fire in a critical essay prepared by former Juggler editor, J. H. Johnston. The essay is a careful comparison of two current Italian films with the American product, the faltering leader in the field. Holy Cross seminarian Francis E. McInerney, C.S.C., has contributed an interesting essay on Cardinal Newman.
The Board of Publication’s action in awarding cash prizes for work in The Juggler is an effort to give recognition to student writers. At the same time, it hopes to increase student interest in the publication to give the magazine access to the best material available in the student body. The cash awards will be made in three divisions. The first prize, $100.00, is to be awarded the work judged the best for general achievement regardless of medium. Two $50.00 awards, one each to the best in the fields of fiction and critical essay, will also be made.
Duggan has been assisted in the compilation of this issue by Thomas H. Doherty, John J. Fallon, Norbert Geier, Edward M. Kralovec, and Elmer A. Steffen, Jr. Future plans call for The Juggler to be published twice during the spring semester. Students desiring to contribute poems, essays, or short stories for those issues should forward manuscripts to: The Editor, The Juggler, 240 Badin Hall.
—Harry Monahan
17
EXAM GREMLINS HOLD FINALS
18
516V
a<sv
LS
CONVOCATION
Macabre Profs Brew Questions For Students' March to Gallows
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
The march to the gallows begins within a little more than 48 hours. At chat time the History Department will slip its departmental noose around the collective necks of several hundred date-crammed, significance-stuffed students, and the final examinations will be under way.
The week-end ahead Loks Lleak for South Bend diveoperators and theatre-owners. George’s, that communications center for campus gossip, and the Stratigon sort of a masculine wailing-wall, will, no doubt, ring with the echoes of ghosts and the worried foot-tapping of perplexed proprietors. For most ND men will be buried under a drift of books, laboring over everything from Thomistic psychology to Russian novels. Only the highly confident or thore too weak to overcome the tropistic lure of a mug of sufs will venture away from their accumulated lecture notes.
No Alternative for Exams
For the average Notre Dame man, and this goes for most students everywhere, final examinations are a plague and a pestilence, but one that seemingly must be met squarely and confidently if any good is to be salvaged. There is no alternative. Regardless of a “progress” in modern education, even the best schools must resort twice a year to the professors’ sadistic instrument of fun, the dread finals.

Oh they deny it! They point an accusing finger at the scapegoat administration' and lay the blame at the door of the Dome. But one must own that there is a certain compensating amount of delight in standing at the head of a class of sophomoric, cocky, unappreciative college boys and watch-
ing them squirm like a handful feeling! Youth at your feet! Ha! mones.
of wet helminths. What a Better than a shot of hol-
So they meet at night in the
cellars. The caldrons hiss
and steam, and the light flickers on their eiudi e faces, as round and round the coals the professors hop and hunch. The musical accompaniment is usually the gnashing of teeth and the rustle of mimeographed paper. Every now and then a cultured voice bleats out: “I have a good question: Who were the seven Republican congressmen who voted against Johnson’s impeachment?”
Administration Cracking Down
For the student who attended Notre Dame prior to the war, and who is now fast approaching his date of graduation, one fact is vei-y evident from a comparison of administration attitudes: they are definitely cracking down, and anyone who doesn’t think so better watch lest he should fall. With the ever-swelling enrollment there is a natural inclination to eliminate the weak and straggling. That is good. • Notre Dame must turn out representative men. But for some the sudden change from torpid service conditions or plush home life or even high-school caramel-coated education is too much of a mental strain, as witness how many of your friends have been acting jumpy lately. An occasional crack-up is nature’s way of signalling a defect in student body .^mental hygiene, a positive necessity if the University is going to turn out wrell-rounded and informed gentlemen.
Keeping ever in view its mission of serving and inform-(Continued on Page 31)
19
Business Poll Sees Trade Rise in Future
The Propeller Club of America sailed into the Port of Notre Dame last Monday for its monthly meeting and with it came the revealing results of a poll of 100 leading businesses engaged in foreign trade.
The poll was conducted by the Notre Dame members of the club and disclosed the great emphasis American business is putting on stepping up its foreign trade and the ever-increasing part of theii- government in the same sphere. Of the concerns polled 91 per cent believed that the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will facilitate world trade and that the United States should allocate ships to foreign nations.
The Marshall Plan received a boost from the buisness groups when 68 per cent of them said they anticipated direct sales benefits if the plan became official. In their post-war foreign expansion programs 42 per cent are planning within their domestic organizations and 66 per cent through their foreign organizations. Other figures showed that most companies select their export staff from their present domestic personnel; that 78 per cent of them are men with specialized training in foreign marketing and foreign language and that 64 per cent of these concerns will establish branch plants in friendly foreign countries when conditions permit.
Professor Herbert J. Bott, faculty moderator, was not at the meeting, having been injured in an automobile accident earlier that evening.
—Greg Halpin
GLEE CLUB OFFICERS CHECK THEIR MUSIC In three states—fine concerts
GM. US YOUR OPINIONS
Inside the back cover of this week's magazine, SCHOLASTIC presents a student opinion poll, asking the student body: “What do you think of the SCHOLASTIC?" Readers are cordially requested to cut out this form, fill it in, and deposit it in boxes set up for that purpose in the Menn Building and at the entrance to the Dining Hall. Readers' cooperation will be greatly appreciated.
Glee Club Fills Semester Break With Tri-State Tour
The nationally-famous Glee Club of the University of Notre Dame will deliver five concerts in a three-state tour-from January 30 to February 3.
The Glee Club, according to Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the group, will present concerts in Indianapolis, Ind., on January 30; Evansville, Ind., on January 31; Nashville, Tenn., on February 1; Memphis, Tenn., on February 2; and Paducah, Ky., on February 3.
Featured in the Evansville concert by the Notre Dame choral group will be religious, semi-classical and semi-popular music. Soloists for the concerts will include Roy O’Neil, of Aurora, Ill., baritone; Robert Ruetz, of South Bend, Ind., tenor; Nolan Sheehan, of Tulsa, Okla., tenor; and William Gibbons, of Rochester, N. Y., pianist.
The traveling chorus of the Glee Club consists of 60 of the best voices from the 130 students in the club. The three-state tour will be made between academic semesters at the Universities.
Scholarship Group To Award $500 Prizes
The Committee on Scholarships and Prizes has announced that a $500 prize for an essay on Education and Americanism will be awarded at the June 1948 Class Day exercises. This exceptional award is made possible by a contribution from Mr. John Moore, ’ll, Birmingham, Michigan, Governor of the Notre Dame Foundation for the State of Michigan, and former President of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Detroit.
The full amount, constituting a single first-place prize, will be awarded to the undergraduate student writing the essay judged to be the best on the part education plays in giving an understanding of the American philosophy of government and of the American way of life, as contrasted with the political atmosphere of totalitarian governments.
The essay, between five and seven thousand words in length, in thesis form, fully documented, must be submitted to the Assistant Director of Studies not later than April 1, 1948. All undergraduates, including those completing studies in the Fall 1947-8 semester, are eligible for competition. Other information concerning the contest will be published in an official academic bulletin before the end of this semester.
Mill Worker’s Whim Adds Books to University Library
Among the most regular donors of books to the University Library, oddly enough, is a mill worker who never had the opportunity to secure a college education.
According to Miss Lois Dozier, librarian in charge of handling gift editions, Mr. Joseph Kotcka, of Clairton, Pennsylvania, has contributed 79 books of various types in the past three months. When she wrote to thank him and discover the reason for his generosity, he merely replied that he thought Notre Dame was a “great institution of learning.”
In subsequent letters, “Joe” explained that poverty in his f amily prevented him from acquiring the necessary education to enter his chosen field of publicity work.. Now, all his leisure time is devoted to reading books and writing occasional articles for the local news- ’ paper. His gifts are intended to give pleasure and enlightenment to those who are “getting the breaks he missed.”
—John H. Janowski
20
SCHOLASTIC SPORT/
Bostonians' Picnic at Italian Club's Expense Vaults Rochester Into Gold League Lead
Maybe it was the Sunday chow. Maybe it was the blond that canvassed the alleys for the March of Dimes. Maybe it was the cold weather. Whatever the reason, after the scores were added up last Sunday at the Bowl-Mor alleys, the league leaders — of the previous week — were league leaders no more.
The Italian Club took the biggest nose dive. Having lost only two games in four weeks’ play, the Bomans brought sandwiches and coffee for their tussle | with the Boston Club. They figured the match would be a picnic—minus ants. Before the afternoon was over, the Bostonians donated the ants and three defeats. The result: the Italian Club found a bed-partner in its first place berth—the Rochester Club.
Frank Parise, owner of the league’s high-game toga, was colder than an Eskimo’s ice box; he rolled up 17 splits in three games, to add nothing to the Roman cause. For the Bostons, it was Jim Gorman, Jim Silk, and Bob Nolette doing everything right. If the Italians hadn’t had Chuck Derrico, who rolled 540 in three trips, they would have been so low they’d have had to reach up to touch bottom.
The Rochester Club did it with mirrors again this week. They clipped the Detroits for three points, making Detroiter Lou Janssen’s big guns sound like cap pistols. Rochester’s Chuck O’Brien, Paul Pukish, and Dan Booth did most of the silencing.
In other Gold League fracases, the Buffalo Club sang the blues to the St. Louis Club five in three games. Ray Russek and Al Kenmitzer rolled the top games for Buffalo. The Villagers tripped up the ASME’s in three straight. Fred Tansey and Nick Kopek were the toughies in this match. In the other match, Jet Propulsion found the fuse and dusted off the Rockford Club in two out of three sessions—Chuck Bader creating the biggest explosion.
Some say marriage slows a man down, makes him take out an extra 5,000 bucks worth of insurance. You can’t prove it by the Vetvillers. Led by Papa Perrin and Papa Palmer, the carriage-pushers creaked out a 3-0 decision over the Monogram Club. The clean-sweep pushed Vetville to the top of the Blue League, ^breaking the previous three-team tie.
The Chemists, test-tubed by Jim Vit-
kuske and Ed Collins, clamped onto second place by taking two games from Columbus. The Met Club found the going a little rough up in the Fox River Valley. The Wisconsin lads whipped the New Yorkers in two out of three falls. R. Spaerl and Tom Frawley topped the Fox River scoring.
In other Blue League matches, the Texas Club spurred their way to a 2-1 decision over the Syrian-Lebanese Club; Toledo downed the Aero Club three times; while the Milwaukee Brewers foamed over the Pittsburgh Steelers twice in three trips up.
Best individual games were rolled by Lou Janssen (219), and Leo Schmitt, Inter-American Affairs (209).
BLUE LEAGUE
W. L. Pts.
Vetville _________________12	3	16
Chemists _________________11	4	15
New York Met______________10	5	13
Toledo ___________________ 9	6	12
Milwaukee ---------------- 8	7	12
Monogram ----------------- 7	8	9
Aero______________________ 7	8	9
Columbus ----------------- 7	8	9
Syrian-Lebanese __________ 5	10	7
Fox River Valley 5	10.	7
Pittsburgh _______________ 5	10	6
Texas--------------------- 4	11	5
GOLD LEAGUE
Rochester ________________10	5	14
Italian __________________10	5	14
Inter-American Affairs___ 9	6	13
Villagers ________________ 9	6	12
Boston  8	7	12
Buffalo __________________ 8	7	10
A.S.M.E. _________________ 7	8	9
Detroit___________________ 7	8	9
Rockford _________________ 7	8	8
Jet Propulsion____________ 6	9	8
St. Louis_________________ 5	10	6
Youngstown _______________ 4	11	5
Games scheduled (Feb. 8):
Toledo vs Milwaukee Italian Club vs. Detroit Boston vs Buffalo Columbus vs Texas Chemists vs Fox River Valley Syrian-Lebanese vs Monogram Vetville vs New York Met Aero vs Pittsburgh Jet Propulsion vs Villagers Rochester vs Inter-American Affairs Youngstown vs St. Louis Rockford vs A.S.M.E.
Cagers Plot Revenge For Wildcats, Billikins In Top Home Games
By GREG HALPIN
Both bewildering editions of the Notre Dame basketball team come face to face with a terrifying portion of their schedule during the next three weeks. The all-victorious home edition opens its spider’s web to the snarling Wildcats of Kentucky on Feb. 2 and the “Billiken Barrelroll” is whirled onto the home floor the night of Feb. 9 by the basketball playing population of St. Louis University. The away edition of the Irish, whose eccentricities have caused everything but a Congressional investigation, will be roaming the Midwest in return engagements with Butler, Northwestern, and DePaul and an affair with Detroit U.
Game of the Year
Far and away the most crucial of these social engagements will be the tangle with Kentucky here Feb. 2. They’ll be a feudin’, a fussin’ and a fightin’ a plenty that evening when the species of wildcat which Coach Adolph Rupp has currently adorned with basketball uniforms comes a boundin’ out of its Southern den to sink its claws, for the first time, into ND hardwood.
And a talented animal act Coach Rupp has. Five at a time, they have gone through their repertoire with such energy and skill for the past two seasons that they have been acclaimed as the nation’s top collegiate basketball attraction; have been defeated only once this season in an amazing upset by Temple, and have listed among their victims in this long performance one Notre Dame basketball team, clawed 60 times until dead last year at Lexington. Led by Alex, “The Hand” Groza at center, a towering athlete with the disturbing habit of playing bean bag with a basketball through enemy hoops and AllAmerican guard Ralph Beard, the Blue Grass boys will expose their top ranking to five vengeful Irishmen with mayhem in their green hearts and that miraculous home floor beneath their sneakers. (ND has won 37 consecutive home games.) Besides Groza and Beard, Coach Rupp will present Forwards “Wah-Wah” Jones and Joe Holland and guard Jim Line in a little act entitled “38 Is But a Dream.”
(Continued on Page 29)
21
The University of Notre Dame which boasts of a swimming pool, talented
ON THE GRIDIRON
At the first glance the semester ending tomorrow has been one of the most successful, if not the most successful, in the history of Notre Dame athletics. The football team played and won nine games and their second successive national championship. John Lu jack was called the greatest collegiate football in history before the season; played like the greatest football player in history during the season; and collected almost every trophy, award and honor that the greatest football player in history could receive after the season.
In the line that helped Lujack gain the laurels of the great, four men were recognized as All-Americans by numerous individuals, agencies, and polls. All four at different times were called the greatest linemen in the nation: Captain George Connor, Ziggy Czarobski, Bill Fischer, and Leon Hart. The sportswriters of the country stopped with those four, but we know better. Bill Walsh, Jim Martin, Marty Wendell, Joe Signaigo, and Bill Wightkin belong also.
IN OTHER SPORTS
The cross-country team led by Jim Murphy and Cornie Styers romped through their season also undefeated, but fell to a plague of stitches and cold weather in the National Collegiate meet. A week before, the distance men got a bum shake in the Central Collegiate run at Drake, when the officials refused to
delay the starting time for the Notre Dame team, victims of delay because of a train wreck.
The basketball team, a late starter in the semester’s sport picture, have been struggling to keep their heads above water with seven wins in eleven games. Four of the wins came in a row before
Intramural Swim Stars Compete for Honors At Sixth Annual Meet in ’Rock1 Pool Feb. 17
swimmers, but no swimming team, takes another halting step towards aquatic distinction February 17 when the sixth annual Interhall Relay swimming meet will be held in the Rockne Memorial pool under the able direction of Mr. Gil Burdick.
Off-Campus, the defending champions, although weakened considerably through graduation has issued a statement to the effect that neither storm nor choppy water will prevent its challenging all halls on the above Tuesday evening.
As in the past there will be five standard and two comic-opera events. The latter, a 200 yd. sweat shirt relay and a Butt relay of the same distance, enable faltering dark sea-horses to come up fast on the rail, through a system of double point values. In these orgies eight men participate, each for a distance of one length (25 yards). In the regulation 200 yd. free style, 200 yd. backstroke, and 200 yd. breast relays, the teams will consist of four men with each man negotiating 50 yards. In the 150 yd. medley relay three men will comprise a team, each performer exhibiting his wares for 50 yards.
In all the events there will be points awarded for the first six places, the winning team in standard events receiving 12 points, second place 10 and so on down the line. In the vaudeville relays, first place is valued at 25 points, second —20, third—15, fourth—10, fifth—8, and sixth—5 points.
Medals will be awarded all members of the top team as can be attested to by
St. Louis edged out a two point victory last Saturday night. Two of the other losses were by one and two point margins. Illinois did the trick with a basket and Denver with a free throw. Indiana gave the Krausemen their only real drubbing 72-46.
That is the first glance and one may call it a beautiful picture, but the second glance at Notre Dame athletics requires rose-tinted glasses. When the Athletic Department allowed a soccer team to represent the University, it looked like a new era was beginning in Notre Dame athletics. However, after the A.A. started the ball rolling, they quickly deflated it by not making any effort to start teams in other sports long neglected on the campus.
f
last year’s Off-Campus mermen, whose riddled ranks this year include such un
heralded tankers as John Sheehan, Mike Schoeff el, Bob Mills, Jack McGirr, Zeke Zuckowski, Don Rosenfelder, Tom Hynes and Dick Fetters. The whereabouts of their training camp is unknown although several significant rumors have been circulating.
In addition to the medals being struck for presentation to the winners of this Relay Meet, there is further incentive for the necessary conditioning involved, in the pending announcement of an Interhall Meet to be held in the near future. At that time individual events will be emphasized rather than team relays.
However, in the February 17 meet, * keener competition should be noted since greater balance will be gained through the team participation in each event. Strong strokers will generally be compensated for by dog-paddling anchormen.
Between the relay and the individual meets there will be initiated a Senior-Lifesaving Course under the supervision of Phy Ed majors. This will not only afford all swimmers an opportunity to maintain peak condition but will also present anyone interested the chance to earn a Red Cross badge in the required V 15 hours.
Little practice is foreseen by Mr. Burdick until after- the resumption of classes next semester, the intervening lay-off giving all entrants a fairly even start on any such conditioning programs as - , < they may deem advisable to prevent sinking.
22
* INTRODUCING...
By JOHN KRUEGER
Ernie McCullough of 424 Badin Hall can play “Turkey in the Straw” on his violin with eyes shut, standing on one foot, and—get this—with the instrument perched on top of his head. He can render “Love in Bloom,” accompanied by fists beating on walls, in true Jack Benny style. You say, “How good can a guy get?” But wait a minute, I’ve only begun to list the lad’s talents.
Ernie’s real claim to fame arises from his record as an athlete at Notre Dame —as a member of Doc Handy’s track team. Successive monograms in ’46 and ’47, plus a great team spirit, earned him the vote of his mates for captain of this year’s squad. The 22-year-old speedster specializes in the 440 and in the mile relay. That’s the mile relay team that captured first at the Chicago Relays and Central Collegiate Championships last year. As for the 440—well, Ernie, who hails from Calgary, Alberta, won the Canadian quarter mile championship in 1946 and stands a good chance of making the Dominion’s Olym-ph team.
Ernie made quite a name for himself as a high school track star. He proved to be no slouch at hockey or football either. In fact Ernie skated alongside some of the best in the business while in the Royal Canadian Naval Reserve: Max Bentley, Jim Henry, Eddie Wares. But hockey is no sport for a trackman; the two won’t mix. Each requires a different sort of stride so Ernie has abandoned h the rink to concentrate on running.
The blonde Badinite starred at left half and captained his high school football team. In Canada, where men are men, football differs somewhat from the American brand: you get 3. downs to make 10 yards; the field is 10 yards wider and longer; there are 12 men on a team (the extra man is called the floating wing); touchdowns count five points; there is no blocking 10 yards beyond the line of scrimmage; and there is no blocking on the kickoff.
After one year in the navy, Ernie came to Notre Dame to major in philosophy, to go out for track, to play the violin in the school symphony, and to room with Dave Murphy.
Having already discussed his track exploits, we turn to his scholastic endeavors. Canada’s gift to Notre Dame plans to be graduated next January, and, with his magna cum laude average as a phil-I osophy major, what’s going to stop him?
In his more serious moments with the violin, Ernie holds down a chair in the

school orchestra. The boy knows his music all right; the next issue of the Jnp-gler will carry an article by Ernie on the subject.
Ernie’s constant inspiration and guide is his roommate, Dave Murphy, last year’s track captain. “He’s my hero,” says Ernie. How else can he find out where Dave hid his violin?
ernie McCullough Magna Cum Laude with a violin
NEXT ISSUE, FEB. 13
The next issue of SCHOLASTIC will be published Feb. 13. There will be no issue next week because of the final examinations, and no issue the following week because of registration.
Track Season Opens; Missouri Here Jan. 31
Notre Dame trackmen will inaugurate the indoor season on Saturday, January 31, when they play host to Missouri, Big Six indoor and outdoor champions last year. The meet will begin at 1 p. m., with the pole vault scheduled as the first event.
This first contest will prove the capabilities of the Irish cindermen, because Missouri is a well balanced squad besides boasting particular strength in the hurdles, sprints, and the shot put. A former member of the N. D. spikesters, Medill Gartiser, leads the hurdlers from Missouri, while Quirk, their shot putter, is among the best in the middle west.
Lineup Uncertain
Coach Elvin Handy will pick the men for each event on the basis of time trials held the past two weeks. The meet with Missouri will test these men under competitive conditions; then Coach Handy and his assistant, Bob Lawrence, will make the changes necessary to give the squad its best strength for the Michigan Relays which will be held at East Lansing the following week, Saturday, February 7.
From these two difficult contests, the Irish thinclads go to two gruelling dual battles with Iowa at Iowa City and Penn State here. Penn State is the only other home appearance of the cindermen during the indoor season. The schedule for the rest of the year is tentative, but it is certain the N. D. group will participate in the Chicago Relays, the Purdue Relays, Illinois Tech Relays, Central Collegiates, and the Cleveland Knights of Columbus meet. Only certain outstanding performers will be invited to the Chicago Relays and the K. of C. meet, but Notre Dame will be represented by a full squad at all the other contests.
Meet For Stan
The Michigan Relays on February 7 will be more of a test of individual performers than of over-all team strength, because of the peculiar set-up of events and points. There is no team trophy awarded, only individual awards. The cream of the nation’s track performers will be represented at this gathering.
Practically all of the Big Ten schools will have teams or individuals entered. If any school has a chance to win top honors by reason of the most individual titles taken, it will no doubt be the University of Illinois team which has twenty-one returning lettermen headed by
23
Capt. Bob Rehberg, crack middle distance runner. Norm Wasser of Illinois, Fortune Gordien of Minnesota, and Chuck Fonville of Michigan will fight it out for top honors in the shot, with a new record almost a certainty.
Top favorites in the hurdles are Bill Porter of Northwestern and John Smith of Notre Dame. In the half-mile, Bill Leonard of the Irish will hit rugged competition from Berton of Michigan and Jack Dianetti of Michigan State. Expected to show well in the distances are Gehrman of Wisconsin and Jim Murphy of Notre Dame. Captain Ernie McCul-
Ciechanowicz Snares Wrestlers' Top Award
Seven grapplers were awarded honors in the Interhall Wrestling Meet, held Friday, January 16, in the Rockne Memorial Building.
Big Emil Ciechanowicz, of Zahm Hall, won the heavyweight title by pinning Jim Mahoney, of Lyons Hall, in 3 minutes and 13 seconds.
The matches were under the supervision of Mr. Dominic Napolitano, of the Physical Education department, and were officiated by Bernie Powers.
Summary:
136 lbs.: Anthony Dadamio, Farley, decisioned Jack Kramer, Dillon.
145 lbs.: Benny Moses, Alumni, defeated Loren Bullock, Off-Campus, by fall, due to injury. 6:15.
150 lbs.: Leo Mahoney, Off-Campus, defeated Jack Lambert, by fall. 3:00.
160 lbs.: Ed Smith, Breen-Phillips, defeated Jim Hart, Cavanaugh, by fall. 2:30.
lough will lead the N.D. mile relay team of Steve Provost, Ray Sobota, and Pat Kenny.
Irish sprinter Babe Murphy will hit rough competition in the dashes from Parker and Lawler of Texas. The broad jump will be a duel between Campbell of Michigan State and Leuthold of Illinois. N.U. and Purdue will dominate the pole vault, while the high jump seems to be wide open in the absence of Illinois’ Dike Eddleman. The mile and the 440 appear to be the only events in which there are no odds-on favorites.
• —Jim Hoivard.
175 lbs.: Adrian DeBevec, Farley, defeated Fred Piccini, Breen-Phillips, by fall. 6:20.
185 lbs.: Frank Harty, St. Ed’s, defeated Frank Biggert, Cavanaugh, by fall. :45.
Heavyweight: Emil Ciechanowicz, Zahm, defeated Jim Mahoney, Lyons, by fall. 3:13.
—Tom Adams
NOTE 50th N.D. CAGE BIRTHDAY
Ceremonies between games at the Chicago Stadium tomorrow night will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the inauguration of basketball as a sport at Notre .Dame when the Irish face Northwestern in the second half of the usual double-header. DePaul plays Michigan State in the first game.
Several former N.D. basketball stars, including Moose Krause and Ray Meyer, DePaul head coach, will take part in the observance.
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox

TRACK MEETS, TOO
The trend toward taking Notre Dame athletic teams away from the campus for the majority of their performances continues during the indoor track season. Th? schedule has not been approved by the faculty board 3 in control of ath-| letics as this is i written, but it s probably will be i accepted without j change.	.
,-j The trackmen * will perform for ; the home folks on J but two occasions. I The 1947 squad enI tertained visiting I teams on four Sat-I urday afternoons.
One of the two
home meets for this season comes be- .
tween semesters, a time which seems to be overly popular with the schedulemakers in the Athletic Department.
Good news for fencing fans, however— the parry-and-thrust men will be exhibited to the student body on four occasions if their schedule is approved by the faculty board.
At last report there was no indication that the Bengal Bouts would be moved from the campus ... or held in July.
ALL-OPPONENT TEAM
CREAM OF THE GRAPPLING CROP Champions — Ciechanowicz, Harty, DeBevec, Smith, Mahoney, Moses, Dadamio
At the football banquet tendered oui" huskies by the St. Joe Valley Alumni, an official “all-opponent” team was selected by the 37 monogram winners. It lined up like this:
Player	Pos.	. School Votes	
Skladany	LE	Pittsburgh	12
O’Reilly	LT	Purdue	26
Steffy	LG	Army	30
Novak	C	Nebraska	31
Day	RG	Northwestern	15
Bryan'	RT	Army	29
Cleary	RE	S. Cal	11
Galiffa	QB	Army	21
Szulborski	LH	Purdue	24
Doll	RH	S. Cal.	10
Rowan	FB	Army	30
It is significant to		note that four	of
Army’s men made the team while Purdue and Southern California each placed . two representatives on the squad. Top ballot getter was Tom Novak, rugged " center from Nebraska., who garnered 31
24
TOUCHE
Capt. Lou Buras scores by a stop thrust on Jerry Lubin. Pete Gross calls the point and Coach Herb Melton looks on.
JUST LIKE THE MOVIES
Fencer Bob Bosler stands cornered by Teammates Honey. . Witucki. DiCicco, and Schlosser. Will he escape?
of a possible 37 votes. Last year Dick Scott, also a center from Navy, took voting honors with 35 of 36 possible ballots.
CAGERS IMPRESS
According to reports from St. Louis, Notre Dame showed to better advantage in their 42-40 loss to the Billikens than any other team which has invaded Kiel Auditorium this year. And that includes Oklahoma A. & M., the team which handed St. Louis its only loss of the season so far.	■
The Irish certainly stand a fine chance of upsetting the Kentucky apple cart when Adolph Rupp brings his top-ranking quintet here on Feb. 2. The 37-game winning streak on the home court has included some top-flight basketball teams, " and Coach Krause’s five has been showing steady improvement this year. If the boys start clicking early and keep it up, they might be a tough nut for the Bearcats to crack. That little 60-30 slaughter of last year doesn’t rest too easily in many Irish hearts.
Intramural Leagues Open; Brawn vs. Brains at 'Rock*
A horde of rough and tumble basket-eers invaded the “Rock” last week with bayonets adjusted and target sights fixed firmly on the distant championships of the student leagues. As the pre-season competition swept into its second week, this much was already certain: only topnotch teams with aggressiveness and a well-rounded attack will stand a chance for the title in any division.
In the club competition, the Central Illinois club, latest member of the club ™ league, won a hard fought 35-30 victory over the Aesculapians, and the Kentucky
club lived up to its name with a 36-31 win over the Toledo team.
Over in the inter-hall league Breen-Phillips, last year’s winners, crushed St. Edward’s 46-15 but lost to Zahm 17-16. Zahm then ran into stormy weather itself and dropped a 38-25 game to Cavanaugh. Meanwhile, Badin toppled Walsh 39-30 and Lyons outscored Howard 4637. In the closest game of them all, Farley scored in the last few seconds to down Sorin 29-28 in a thrilling contest. Finally, Off-Campus outlasted Alumni 18-14 in a dull game and the Cavanaugh light-weights beat the Zahm lights 38-27.—Tom McNally
STUDENT ADMISSIONS, BASKETBALL
Students are reminded that for admission to the KENTUCKY and ST. LOUIS games, both admission tickets and athletic books must be presented at the South Entrance.
Students are requested to be in their seats by seven p. m. for all games. All seats except the North Balcony will be open to the student body. Unoccupied space after seven p. m. will be made available to the public on a general admission basis at the Gymnasium Boxoffice.
No special ticket will be required for admission to the February 24th and February 25th games with Michigan State and Marquette. Athletic books will admit to those contests.
A limited number of tickets for the remaining away-from-home games are on sale at the Athletic Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
—Ticket Manager >
N.D.'s Fencing Team Prepares for Season
Seven lettermen from last years squad will form the nucleus for the 1948 Notre Dame fencing team. The 1947 outfit, the first ’neath the Golden Dome in five years, won four of its seven matches, and this year’s aggregation is expected to better that record.
Coach Herb Melton, a monogram fencer in 1941 and 1942, will be starting his second year as coach of the sport. He is now studying in the Notre Dame law school. The majority of his men are sophomores and juniors, men with one year of varsity experience and with at least one more year to go. In addition, Melton has some freshmen prospects working out daily in the fencing room in the fieldhouse.
The schedule has not yet been approved by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, but the opener is set for February 2, when the Irish will travel to Columbus to duel Ohio State. Last yeai- the Buckeyes were a 16-11 victim of Coach Melton’s charges.
Captain Lou Burns paces the monogram men returning. Others include Robert Bosler, Michael DiCicco, Peter Gross, James Jansen, Robert Schlosser and Ralph Witucki.
Buras, DeCicco, Gerald ’Lubin, and Colin McDonald are expected to give Notre Dame strength in the foil. Ralph Dixon, Jerry Dobyns, Gross, and Jansen lead the way in the epee. The sabre, one of the Irish strong points last year, should prove equally as good this season. Three lettermen, Bosler, Schlosser, and Witucki, team with Edward Martin and Thomas Roney to settle Coach Melton’s fears in that department. —Jim Butz
25
to o
/
Hn*
W U
0 X 0
R. J. Reynolds 'Sob, Co. Wlnaton-Srdem. N. O,
> k
J
§
f?5 BLEND rr-s CIGARETTES
louis Primo's "With a Hey and a Hi and a Ho Ho Ho" (RCA Victor)
The man who plays pretty for the people, Louis Prima, has a groovy new record!
A trumpet player of long experience, Louis knows when he’s hit the right note in smoking pleasure too. He’s a dyed-in-the-wool Camel fan. “Camels are the 'choice of experience’ with me,” says Prima.
Try Camels! Let your own experience tell you why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience.”
IS MY

And here s a

BRAND
Mote people, m 9*g


NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Femmes & Formulas
During the recent Christmas vacation an already strong library staff at Notre Dame was further reinforced by the addition of eight new members. In the Catalogue Dept., newly headed by Miss PAULINE CATHERINE RAMSEY, of Toledo, 0., there are three capable assistants: Miss BETTY UCKER, Miss MARY LOUISE MEUNIER, both of Kansas City, Mo. and Mrs. MARJORIE ANN SINGER of Canton, 0. Mrs. MARY KAY VORBECK from St. Louis goes to the Binding Dept.; Mrs. BETTY LOUISE MOLTER of Goodland, Ind. to the Order Dept.; Miss PATRICIA ANN O’CONNOR, of Monmouth, Ill., to the Circulation Dept.; and Miss WILLO ELIZABETH KUHN, from Michigan City, Ind., will be the new Assistant Purchaser. . . .
Advice & Advancement
Novelist RICHARD SULLIVAN, Professor of English at Notre Dame and the creator of the recent best-seller, The World of Idella May, has nearly completed work on another novel which is as yet untitled. . . .
LOUIS A. RADELET, popular young sociology instructor, will be attending the 9th annual convention of the American Catholic Sociological Society at the University of St. Louis next week as Notre Dame’s representative. Mr. Rade-let was just recently selected to fill the position as the Executive Director of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. . . .
BOBBY and TOMMY BARTHOLOMEW, the two young sons of Notre Dame’s Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, Professor of Political Science, received a rare treat last week when they visited their father’s class in Constitutional Law and were seated on either side of All-American JOHN LU-JACK. Quipped young Bobby, 7, when asked by “Luj” if he liked the session, “It’s too long!” . . .
Life & Death
Engaged to big, amiable FRANK KAUFMANN of Chicago, Ill., Political Science junior and Center JOHN FOLEY’S understudy on the Irish basketball squad: Miss Constance Rita Trau-scht, also of Chicago. No date for the .
wedding has been decided upon. . . .
The Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers announced recently that it has officially adopted the Schoen-herr Mean Line, a new engineering formula for computing the force necessary to propel a ship through the water. This new formula, which was devised by and is named for Dr. KARL E. SCHOEN-HERR, Dean of the College of Engineering, is of tremendous importance to the shipbuilding industry. It puts the calculations of ship resistance and ship power on a common basis in all model testing Q establishments in the United States and Canada for the first time in history. . . .
MISSES O'CONNOR AND MEUNIER For the library — new faces
The new sports editor of Collier’s magazine is BILL FAY, who was editor of the Scholastic when he was a student at Notre Dame in 1940. Fay left the sports department of the Chicago Tribune to accept his new position. . . .
Appointed to the NFCCS National Council last week was TOM MURRAY, who, together with regional chairman Mary Bishop of Nazareth College, will represent the Fort Wayne Region. The National Council will meet in Cincinnati between semesters to develop and approve the plans for the National Congress, which will be held in Philadelphia next April. . . .
Orchids to BILL BRADLEY of Zahm Hall for his letter-to-the-editor of Look magazine (January 20) in rebuking the anonymous “Gopher” who so caustically accused Notre Dame and the Fighting Irish of professionalistic tendencies in producing a consistently winning football team. (Look, Dec, 23). Said the vitriolic Mr. Bradley, “They watered my letter.” . . .
ROBERT K. GRIFFIN, of Bridgeport, Conn., a naval veteran and a graduate of the University of Notre Dame will become an instructor in business administration at St. Michael’s College, Winooski Park, Vt., for the second semester. . . .
Engaged to LARRY O’CONNOR of Howard Hall, Commerce senior from Woodhaven, L. I.: Miss Virginia McLaughlin, of Mishawaka, Ind. The wedding date is tentatively set for the fall. . . .
Last Saturday evening DONALD JUSTER, 26, of Badin Hall died suddenly after having been hospitalized since an auto accident in Michigan City last Monday night in which he was injured seriously. Don, whose home is in St. Albans, N. Y.; was a junior in the Arts and Letters school.
DEAN SCHOENHERR For marine engineers — a new formula
27
Cke^e4frl Okaite^
By JOE CHENEY
Don’t be surprised if you hear the Chicago Rockets referred to as the “Irish” Rockets next season. Ed Mc
Keever will di-
rect the cellardwellers into the number one spot in the western division if his plans material- ' ize. So far, Cza-robski, Urban, Livingstone, and Ashbaugh are practically signed to p 1 a y for the Rockets.
A deal is on the fire with the Cleveland Browns to gain the draft rights of George Connor.
Held over from last season are Dove, Bertelli, and Coleman. It is rumored that the new owners expect to make up the Rockets of all ex-Notre Dame players within the next three years. That thunder you’ll be hearing in the background will be the rest of the colleges yelling “something about professionalism.”
PENNY, PLEASE?
The guards at the circle have been spending many lonely hours in their two-by-four for the past few weeks but always greet us with a cheery hello. Their old radio went on the blink and can’t be fixed. They’re not making such big dough that they can splurge and buy a new one so I wondered if we all couldn’t help out by dropping a penny in their box on our way downtown. Just a single penny from each of us would be a token of our appreciation for their friendly greetings. What do you say, fellas? 4,500 pennies would buy them a new one.
STRANGE BUT TRUE
I asked Pep Panelli what his strangest experience was during his football career at Notre Dame thus far. Without hesitation he said, “Back in 1945 under coach Hugh Devore, I suffered shoulder injuries before the Tulane game. I told Coach Devore that I was all right but I knew that my shoulder wouldn’t be able to stand much pounding. He kept me on the bench until the second half. When he sent me in I set up a touchdown but took a beating when I was tackled.
“A few minutes later we had possession of the ball again and my signal was called. I had clear sailing until I hit the five-yard stripe where a Tulane man was about to grab me. I put my head down and charged it into his body. He landed in the end zone and me on top of him. The strange part is coming up.
“After the game a man walked up to me in the dressing room and began asking me questions about where I learned to drive with my head. I though he was just another of those locker room guys who stand around while the players shower and dress, so I ignored him.
“Just about then Coach Devore came over and introduced the guy to me. I had never seen him before and was almost floored when Devore said his name was Frank Leahy.”
NO ELECTION YET
With only exam week left, the 1948 football captain hasn’t been elected. Quite a few of the voters will be leaving at the end of this semester and will have to vote by phone. No reason for this!
MANY THANKS
Since this is my last Scholastic column, I’d like to thank the coaches, athletes, -*and managers for their cooperation in tossing inside hints of what was going on behind the sport scenes my way during the last year and a half.
I have written from an objective point of view and said what I thought on many occasions. Many times I have been congratulated; just as often I have been criticized, and a couple of times warned!
The athletes at Notre Dame are the most down-to-earth guys that you’ll meet on any college campus and deserve the verbal bouquets tossed their way. To those of them who feel they have been offended, apologies are extended. Hero-worship is cheap idolatry and this writer has but one God.
One athlete in particular whose name was purposely left out of this column is Johnny Lu jack. He received so much publicity in daily papers and national magazines that there wasn’t much Chatter could say about him that you didn’t already know.
The kid from Connellsville, Pennsylvania might have called a bad play-, occasionally but the fans in the stands couldn’t spot them and neither did our opponents. I’ve waited a helluva long time to agree with Jim Costin but I’m in complete hai-mony with his statement that Johnny Lujack is the greatest Notre Dame football player to wear the Gold and Blue.
Irish Squad Boasts I Four Track Captains
Another sports oddity has been effected by the war, and as a result the last four men to captain Notre’ Dame track squads are gracing the campus at the present time.
Dave Murphy, leader of the ’45 team and a topnotch quarter miler and dash man, is now finishing a course in business administration. Dave was a member of the NROTC in his earlier running days, and he ended his stretch in service as a naval officer in the Pacific. Returning to school last year, Murph anchored the mile relay foursome in addition to boosting ND point totals in his specialties.
Top man in ’46 was hurdler Bill « O’Neil. A real standout, Bill should make the timber-topping events even more fruitful this season besides helping to avenge for many of the close-heart-breaking defeats his teams suffered in the past.
Record-breaking Johnny Smith, last year’s captain, is back with an eye to readjusting the record books again. Smitty made a permanent place for himself in local track history by smashing all existing meet and fieldhouse marks in the hurdles. If he can avoid a recurrence of the leg injury that forced him from many of the big gatherings last season, the ex-Army pilot will, no doubt, add new laurels to his already impressive array.
The present outfit is headed by little Ernie McCullough who is a speedy 440 man and one of the main reasons why the Irish mile relay group is expected to J come close to snapping some of the standing records in that event.
TRACK EXECUTIVES	$
Top — Smith and McCullough; Bottom — Murphy and O'Neil
28
| Cagers Plot Revenge
(Continued from Page 21)
There’ll be another more recent score to settle the night of Feb. 9 in the fieldhouse. The University of St. Louis which has recently gone completely hoop-happy will, that evening, parade its highly efficient quintet before a packed gym of local supporters in eager . search of their second win from the Irish. The conquerers of Holy Cross perpetrated the initial crime last Saturday night in Missouri.
Giant Ed Macauley is the wheel around which the St. Louis attack, called the “Billiken Barrelroll” revolves. Macauley it seems, has a strange mastery over a basketball that makes it surrender its free will to his talented fingers at command and he is ably assisted in this sleight of hand artistry by forwards Schmidt and Miller and guards Bob Willcut and Joe Ossalo.
Road Gaines
On the road, where they have met with a surprising number of detours, the Irish tomorrow night again find themselves in co-occupancy of the Chicago Stadium floor with Northwestern, whom they defeated in their first get-together, 61-55. They’ll return to the same hoop-house Feb. 19 for another all-out melee listed in the official schedules as a basketball game with DePaul University. The Demons saw green in the ND Fieldhouse earlier in the season as the Irish played the Victory March in 52-46 time. In between road appearances in the Windy City, the Krause charges revisit Indianapolis on the 4th of next * month for another tussle with a Butler five whose intentions are anything but honorable. Coach Tony Hinkle’s boys are still smarting from the 71-47 paddling given them here. From Indianapolis the wandering Irish move North to Detroit and a contest with the University of the same name. Detroit this season is young and inexperienced but then again anything can happen when O’Shea and company climb into those gold uniforms.
By the time the buzzer sounds the end of the DePaul tilt on the 14th, the ND record of 7 wins and 4 losses will have had a considerable face-lifting. Whether for better, or for worse, depends on the ability of some Irish starters to recover from injuries and the continued development of others. It is apparent that the Irish have a potentially great ball club which might easily roar through these six games and reestablish themselves as a national standout.
COLLEGE PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
SCANDAL!!!
The new year started off with a bang at Butler U. Not to be outdone by gumshoeing Brewster and colleagues, Dr. A. Dale Beeler, faculty adviser- to the freshman class at that institution, revealed at the reopening of school that there was a discrepancy in the figures released as results in the class election. The rightful occupants of the offices of secretary and treasurer of the freshman class are still undecided. The chairman of the election, who is supposedly answerable for such situations, is one John Scales. At the printing of The Butler Collegian, to whom we are indebted for this juicy morsel, Mr. Scales was unavailable for comment. In fact it might be stated that Scales was being weighed in the balance.
HOOSIER HOODOO . . .
(This is an account of interest only to those students who fear they are in danger of failing to pull down a straight 100 average this semester.)
According to The Indiana Daily Student one of the more skilled undergraduate exponents of hypnotism is working his way through school by hypnotically suggesting to students that they study very hard for two hours before each test. Results reported are excellent. One of his “clients” memorized verbatim a complete chapter from a zoology text and then passed the test with a ninety out of a possible ninety.
THERE'S GOLD IN THEM THAR HILLS!
The geology department at Purdue is really paying its own way, if their latest accomplishment can be taken as a criterion. Professors McCoi-mick and Gu-tormsen of that department recently proved their statement that common gravels contain small amounts of gold by actually panning some gold from some gravel behind the physics building on the campus. An afternoon’s efforts netted several dollars worth of the metal. According to latest available reports, the area immediately behind the physics building has enjoyed unusual popularity with the student body during the last week. Apparently most of the- frequenters of the place are geology students in search of specimens, for they all seem to be scrutinizing the ground very intensively, says the Purdue Exponent.
EDUCATION ADVANCES
Out at Coe College in Iowa, a new plan is about to go into effect whereby
students will be given time off to think on certain days. On these days, no classes will be held, but the professors will be available so that the students may talk their problems over with them, study, or else just think over their own academic problems.
SOUP'S ON
The Michigan State Neivs recently came up with another of those. little anecdotes which make life so worth living. It tells us of the man from Maine who decided he wanted to separate from his wife because she served him pea soup for breakfast, pea soup for lunch, and pea soup for dinner. Upon hearing this, the judge who was hearing the case remarked, “That’s all right if it’s good pea soup.” Then the poor husband’s brother-in-law spoke up. “Yes, but she even put pea soup sandwiches in the lunches he carried to work.” Waiter, bring me the catsup.
THE EIGHTH WONDER
A headline in the Centenary Conglomerate recently read: “Local Man Speaks.” It is rumored that Robert Ripley will seek to regain his former prestige by exploiting this unfortunate character.
From the Curved Hom, of the Fordham School of Education, we have extracted a poem, or as they say, pome:
“The crowd was excited;
The crowd grew tense. .
The hall went over the left field fence.
—Homer”
We’re always happy to see a school of education going in for such intellectual works as Homer. How about a quotation from the Iliad next time?
THE ETERNAL STRUGGLE
The Centenary Conglomerate comes up with some enlightening information regarding college “profs.” These perennial fiends were criticized for >many things, among them the following:
1.	“Frightening the lonesome, homesick, bewildered student by threatening to fail a certain portion of the class and telling him he can take it or leave it.”
2.	“Using obsolete lecture notes and illustrations.”
3.	“Assuming that every student knows certain things.”
’Nuff said.
29
Music » D Ls , D .
DOCKS » ^dc||o
Be It Resolved:
(Continued from Page 16)
Last year, he garnered a record number of points at the Tau Kappa Alpha nation-wide conference to win the Wachtel Plaque, the “Heisman Trophy” of public speaking, for the second straight
FAD-FOLLOWING RECORD COLLECTORS
Unfortunately, the best-selling record lists for 1947 indicate generally shallow, fad-following tastes in music among the record buying American people. Especially depressing were most of the big sellers in a popular field plagued with short-lived, flimsy tunes, exemplified by “Chi Ba Ba,” “Near You,” “The Lady From 29 Palms,” and too numerous others. The overall formula for composing these days seems to be based on utter simplicity of melody and some catchy words, preferably senseless. Add to this basic slush the magic touch of publicity and “faddism” and there’s your hit. The composer who breaks with the accepted sterotype may make money, but his risk is great. At any rate, the people buy and buy and buy.
Record collectors have exhibited a terrific lack of discernment in the past. They cannot, of course, predict and choose the best of the popular discs every time, but there is no need to unconsciously throw away money on each and every tune that flares into popularity. How many hasty buyers have Ted Weems’ “Heartaches” (once again) away back on their shelves collecting dust? Let the local radio stations do that.
From past experience it would seem advantageous to avoid all the “novelty” tunes, even including most of the songs which have the dubious honor of making the Hit Parade. Many persons foolishly pick their records only for the popularity involved, without considering the musical value, the artists, or performance qualities. The latter alone sometimes make a record worth living with.
For example, when Lena Horne sings “I Feel So Smoochie” on her new, potent MGM disc, there is no reason to suppose that there will be a great number of copies sold. The tune is simple and superfluous, though it does have some bounce instead of the expected smoldering blues. Miss Horne, however, really makes you feel that little song as she puts herself and her tingle-producing voice into every phrase. The whole thing overflows with spark and personality. On the over-side is the plea, “Take Love Easy,” in the appealing Horne style but ■without so much persuasion.
If and when the effects of the record
ing ban begin to be felt in the popular field, the public should receive (along with much re-pressed junk) recordings of much time-tested, worthwhile music by Kern. Porter, Gerswhin, Rodgers etc. In this way, perhaps, the ban will be the means to raising the tastes and buying habits of many collectors, and the difference between “Begin the Beguine” and “Red Silk Stockings” may become clear to everyone.
Popular choices of serious music in ’47 were trite but not so puerile, with melody-masters Tschaikowsky, Rimsky-Korsakoff and Rachmaninoff in the fore, and the perennial concert war-horses such as Debussy’s “Clair de Lune” and Chopin’s unconquerable “Polonaise in A Flat” sold rapidly.
QUARTET GETS TOUGH BREAK . . .
The First Piano Quartet (NBC, Sat. 3:30) presents enjoyable, well played programs on the air waves. Despite the fact that there are eight hands speeding simultaneously over four keyboards, the quartet has consistently displayed clarity and originality. And now RCA Victor has released an album (6 sides) with these artists playing the Latin-American music of Ernesto Lecuona, of “Malaguena” fame. But woe unto those who acquire these records. Perhaps the Lecuona music is good listening; perhaps Mr. Garner, Mr. Padwa, Mr. Mit-tler and Mr. Edson are playing with their usual virtuosity, BUT the sounds issued from most of these sides are tinny, echoing and distorted. The four pianists seem to be banging away on four very ancient player-pianos. The higher tones especially waver, flutter, weave and fade. Piano music is difficult to record, but this seems to be an extremely sad job.
LAST WEEK'S MET SUCCESS . . .
After some broadcasts that were not up to the standards of excellence usually connected with the Metropolitan Opera Company, the capable singing by Lily Pons and the astounding brilliance of Ferrucio Tagliavini last week in Donizetti’s “Lucia di Lammermoor” brought back much faith in radio-opera. This was one Met broadcast you shouldn’t have missed.—Tom Hanifin
season.
This year, local exhibition debates have already been presented before the Progress Club, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Rotary Club, South Bend Jewish Organization for the Relief of Palestine, Franklin Elementary School ParentTeacher Association, and the students of St. Mary’s College.
Teams from Bradley University and Western Michigan have tangled with the Irish on the N.D. campus this year. Among the remaining debates scheduled are verbal battles with Loyola, Munde-
COACH SOMMER
Nobody has dropped from the schedule
lein, Duquesne, Stanford, Mount Saint Mary’s of Maryland, Marquette, Georgetown, Canisius, and many more, not yet officially announced.
This season’s traveling schedule, subject to University approval, includes tournaments at Purdue, Boston University, Eau Claire State Teachers College, St. Thomas University, Indiana University, Indiana State Teachers College, and West Point. High points of the year will be the Grand National Tournament at Fredericksburg, Virginia, and the Tau Kappa Alpha National Discussion Tournament, to be held at Bloomington, Indiana.
So far, no schools have announced that they are dropping N.D. from their debate schedule, so these national champions still have the toughest line-up of } opponents in the country .... and their J title doesn’t depend on vacillating sports writers!
30
)	Rebel Romp
(Continued from Page 11)
junior class found itself with a formal of its own on tap and all juniors were restricted to the area, laying open the way for a freshman-sophomore-senior field day on dates.
Dan Gentile, the only Yankee admitted to the Rebel inner circle, was rumored to have acquired a highly-touted hillbilly duo in Joe and Paul Owens to round out an otherwise all-musical evening when he takes over the microphone for the flambeaux-guarded event.
Besides the flambeaux, reminders of the large Negroes who guard the New Orleans Mardi Gras parade route with pine-knot torches, Bevington, decorations chairman, has executed a series of characterized maps of the ten rebel states— Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas.
But by far the highlight of the dance looked to be the crowning of Queen Hilma Seay (Scholastic, Jan. 16) by Club President McGee, and Miss Seay was drawing more than a good share of attention from the braintrusters.
The 22-year-old Cotton ambassadress, a senior at Southwestern College in her native Memphis, was elevated to her regal post in the fibre world last January, and just recently her successor was chosen. Thus it may be her last official act when she receives another title of nobility at the Mardi Gras.
Her reign has taken her all over the United States and France as an example of how well cotton looks when wound around the right person. Thus it seems only fitting that she chooses the end of her tenure to visit South Bend, a place where wools and moisture-repelling fabrics get more use than cotton.
Final Exams
(Continued from Page 19)
ing the student, Scholastic hereby discloses a feasible approach to the forthcoming finals. Should the student follow this advice to the letter something is sure to happen. He may not be turned out a well-rounded gentleman, but at least he will be turned out.
Here’s the plan. It eliminates all frustrations, pent-up worries and anticipations, and ungrounded fears.
(1)	Burn all crib notes. But not till after the tests.
(2)	Scoff at black coffee and benzydrine for wee-hour cramming. Instead go out and get crocked. They say the memory retains everything, and all you must do is poke the coals for a spark to be recalled. If you go into the exam slightly crocked you may be able to recall every boring word your prof ever uttered. Then again you may not.
(3)	Approach your instructor before the exam and grab him by his wilted collar and shake profusely. Let him know you’re confident. Assert yourself. Slap him on the back and then smile. If you have time you might try going out a window.
(4)	Introduce yourself to the man who sits next to you. You may need his help. Write your exam with aplomb and bravado. Be dashing. Even get up and leave an hour early. This makes an impression on the prof. After you suffer through the test, having followed all the above rules, write a farewell letter to the gang and go chop a hole in the i:e in the lake and let yourself slowly down. R.I.P.
Ave Maria Blasts 'Ideals1 Of Communist Organization *
The Ave Maria, national Catholic weekly published at Notre Dame, characterized the Council Against Intoler-erance in America as “a Red society hiding behind its American title” in a January 17 editorial.
' The editorial said in part:
“The Council . . . might be thought from its name to be a real democratic organization. The fact is, however, it is a Red society hiding behind its American title. Recently it bestowed awards upon people supposed to have worked mightily for democracy, and it is interesting to note the men and women who were chosen.
“One recipient was Dr. Harlow Shapley who has frequently been advertised in the Daily Worker as participating in various communist-front gatherings and has often been cited by the House com) mittee on un-American activities. . . .
[Also] to receive an award was Dr. Ruth Benedict who has been affiliated
with at least nine communist-front organizations. . . . Frank Sinatra was also honored. He has recently turned author and has an article in the November-December issue of the Protestant, one of the most vicious pro-communist, anti-Catholic publications, hiding under the cloak of Protestantism. [Another] recipient is Arthur Derounian [John Roy Carlson] author of Under Cover, which vilified some of the best Americans in our country.
“The ‘selectees’ indicate the quality of the honor roll.”
SCHOLASTIC STAFF MEETING
There will be a meeting ior all writers, artists and photographers interested in joining the SCHOLASTIC staff Thursday, Feb; 5, at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. Present staff members are asked to arrive at 7 for the meeting, so that assignments for the Feb. 13 issue of the magazine can be made.
Senior Engineers Given State Comprehensive Test
If you have seen the members of the senior class in the College of Engineering sweating more blood than usual during the last couple of weeks, you may be interested in the reason why. On last Friday and Saturday the eight-hour theoretical test was given by the State of Indiana for the Professional Engineer’s Certificate. This test was a four-year comprehensive test, covering all the matter in the engineering cojarse. .
This test was formerly given to those, who wished to become their own bosses in the field of engineering and then only with another practical test after three years of work with some company. For the past two years this theoretical part has been given to all seniors in the universities of the state, who, if they wish, may take the practical part after three years of work.
Then, if they have passed both, they obtain their certificates and may go out and work on their own.	.
—Bob Edmondson
31
Canon Law Expert Addresses Institute
Dr. Stephan Kuttner, professor of the history of canon law at Catholic University of America, recently ended his second series of lectures to be delivered to the Mediaeval Institute this semester. His latest addresses were combined under the title, “Problems in the Substance of Mediaeval Law.”
Dr. Kuttner in this last series discussed the following subjects: “Topical Arrangement of Mediaeval Law,” “Phases of the Development of Roman Curia,” “Feudalism and the Church; Office and Benefice,” “Aspect of Roman Canonical Procedure,” and “Theology and Law in the Doctrine of Penal Imputation.” These various topics showed the remarkable unity which the Middle Ages possessed from the point of view of law and continuity of their procedure in the development of canon law.
In general, comments from the usually large audiences were highly favorable, even though one would expect them to be very critical. The Mediaeval Institute sponsored the series, ending its program of lectures for the semester. More of the calibre of Dr. Kuttner’s have been scheduled for the spring session.
Tribune to Give "E" Awards To 2 NROTC Men Tomorrow
Two reserve midshipmen of the Notre Dame NROTC will receive Chicago Tribune gold and silver awards for excellence in Naval Science tomorrow at 11:00 a. m. in ceremonies featuring a formal review of the battalion by graduating seniors of the unit.
The medals will be awarded by Captain Anthony L. Danis, u.s.N., commanding officer of the Notre Dame NROTC, who will also review the battalion. The names of the recipients of the awards will not be disclosed until Captain Danis calls the men forward Saturday morning.
Newly appointed student officers will lead the battalion during the program, which will include the awarding of sweaters to two members of the unit rifle and pistol team, Midshipman Jack E. Eskilson, Richmond Hts., Mo., and Theodore R. Gondert, Dayton, Ohio.
Graduating seniors who will be on the reviewing stand are Ralph J. Cunningham, Bloomington, HL; James R. Du-toit, Martin J. Deutch, Urban A. Hinders, Thomas W. Landig, Patrick J. Mulvihill, Robert N. Preston, Bernard J. Ro-gus, and Wayne H. Schott. Cunningham has already been assigned to a three-week cruise on a heavy cruiser to sail from California during the month of February.
Super Carnival
(Continued from Page 9)
Balls will be whizzing at bottles in the Commerce Forum booth. The Met Club is to manage a jack-in-the-box concession while the Rockford, Illinois, men take care of the ice cream stand. Milwaukee is scheduled for a horse race with Minnesota slated for the hot dogs. The Fox River Valley group is sponsoring penny pitching and the Law Club will have a game of chance. Florida will handle a mice board while Detroit spins a wheel of chance. The Italian Club is tentatively planning to sell “pizza-pie” in a diminutive Pizzeria.
The Blue Circle has volunteered to act as the standing committee for the entire Mardi Gras. The Boston, Chicago, California, International Affairs and West Virgina clubs have all expressed their desire to run a booth, but at publication time had not decided on exactly what the stands would be. The Utica men felt they were too small a group to take charge of a booth, so made a generous donation.
The gaily decorated booths, with basso-mouthed barkers hawking the individual wares, will occupy a major portion of the Drill Hall’s floor. Ample room, however, has been allotted for dancing. For those without companions, the South Bend Co-Hop has magnani
SOME LUCKY STUDENTS PLYMOUTH An 'outsider* will make the drawing
mously agreed to send a slew of their members out to serve as taxi dancers. The Liturgy Club will take care of the dancing concession. The cooperative CoHop gals will also help to decorate the variegated booths.
Lou Burns, chairman of the entire Relief Campaign, said, “Certain South Bend merchants have been exceptionally generous in helping us and there will definitely be prizes in each and every tooth.”
The Carnival will start at 9 o’clock Monday night and will close at 11:30. The delay in opening was necessitated by the home basketball game. On the second and final night of the Mardi Gras the doors will open at 7:30, closing at 11:30. All attending have been s granted 12:30 permissions for those two nights.	;
Drawing of the winning tickets for the car will be held at 10:30, Tuesday night. The person who will pick the Chrysler and Plymouth winner has not yet been announced, but Jack Murphy, chairman of the car drive stated that it would be someone completely disassociated from the University.
Donation books, are still available, in the basement of the dining hall. No returns can be made during exam week, except to the rooms of committee members, but can be made after the next semester starts. All returns must be in by February 8. Extra donation bsoks
32
were not sent out during the Christmas R holidays because of postal regulation.
Rome, the Riviera, Rio de Janeiro and New Orleans are world famous for their Shrove Tuesday festivals. And now, through the cold and bleakness of an Indiana winter, there comes a flaming Mardi Gras that will be long remembered in the annals of Notre Dame his-\tory. All roads lead toward the Navy ; Drill Hall—for fun, for entertainment, but above all, for charity.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 4)
last paragraph, I think Aristotle gave the answer most succinctly in Chapter 2 of Book I of the Physics: “his premises are false and his conclusions do not follow.”
But many thanks to Mr. Harmon for having kept the issue in the public eye. I was only shocked that you, Mr. Editor, did not commend him warmly for his efforts in that direction.
William V. Redmann
2005 S. Catalpa Ave.
South Bend, Ind.
Applause to Mr. Redmann for his apology. The case is closed.—Editor
MANY THANKS
Dear Editor:
I am writing to express to you my grateful appreciation of the publicity which you have given to the Mediaeval Institute in the recent issue of the Scholastic.
Your cover and pictures illustrating the work of the Institute were highly effective and the write-up most satisfactory. Many thanks to Messrs. Jackson and Kennedy for then- excellent work.
Yours faithfully,
Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, Directoi-
FAN MAH
Dear Editor:
Congratulations on your excellent coverage of the Football Banquet. I am astounded that student publications are given no opportunity to cover news events that happen on our own campus. This poses the age old question. Does the University exist for the students or the students for the University? The Scholastic should base its coverage of varsity sports on the courtesies shown to the Scholastic by the Department of Athletics.
Sincerely yours,
John Miller Off Campus
SIGNS — BUT INCONSPICUOUS
Dear Editor:
I had occasion recently to ride down Homicide highway, and I took pains to scan the shoulder for signs warning of the ND-St. Mary’s crossing. Believe it or not, after all your crusading, there have been two signs erected, very inconspicuously, but erected just the same. Take your jeweler’s-glass and go out for a look-see.
J. Doyle, Howard Hall
SIGN ON HOMICIDE HIGHWAY For drivers — a jeweler's glass
COUNCIL BAITER'S BAITER
Dear Editor:
In answer to The Case Against Student Council in the Jan. 16 Scholastic.
The new Council member’s criticism of his associates is no more than a list of vague generalities. He takes a column and a half to tell us, “The Council isn’t doing much, but it ought to.” Give us a break Mr. Dissenter; either say something next time, or air your vocabulary elsewhere.
L. S. Connor 118 Dillon Hall
<g>‘*VAN DYKE" EBERHARO FABER- w s-e.
Microtomic VAN DYKE
Tops in Drawing Pencils
For uniform, dean lines on drawings... for white, sharp lines in prints, you can count on the absolute opacity of HI-DENSITY leads in Microtomic “VAN DYKE” drawing pencils. Even the finest details appear free of fuzz or irregularity.
/ ROm HAOS
Round leads from 9Hto7B.
Chisel shaped leads with the same Hi' DENSITY quality are available in six degrees.
EBERHARD FABER
Dear Editor:
Reference is made to the letter in last week’s Scholastic—“The Case Against Student Council.”	-
Though there may be truth in some of the statements many are questionable.
If there has been inactivity we should consider the interest and support from top and bottom—the Administration and the students. .
What have the students and other campus leaders done to advise, assist or make the Student Council better or in carrying out its program?
Sincerely,
Bob Uhl
Alumni Hall
RADIO ARTISTS' LEAGUE
Dear Editor:
No, I’m not asking the chaplain to punch my card; I found the panacea on page 5 of the first issue of the Scholastic this year. After a long session in the library, I returned to the hall much in need of a few laughs. I got ’em, too, in the form of a perusal of some vowels and consonants called “The Week,” written by “The Nose.” (At this point I can’t quite resist the temptation to offer “The Nose” one word of advice: BLOW!)
Seriously though, I kinda’ wondered as I read those words (wise and otherwise) just what Bob V. had against the Notre Dame Radio Club or the two larger local stations. I remember the day that columnist posed for a Dome picture and wrote script for the Radio Club. And yet, in extolling the merits of the new South Bend radio station, WJVA, he said, “Most important, however, was the news that no Notre Dame Radio Club presentation would be cremated over the local outlet. This should be more sweet music to the ears of Notre Dame men
ATTENTION. LETTER WRITERS
The deadline for letters published in SCHOLASTIC is the Saturday before the issue. Letters received after that day will be held for publication the following week.
33
and the citizens of South Bend.” . . .O.K., Bob, I’m coming out for the first round; for as a member of the Notre Dame Radio Club, it is my privilege and pleasure to put out a weekly package of patter called ‘‘Streamlined Sports” on WSBT (Thursday—4:45 p. m.). Therein I try to bring Notre Dame sports fans up to date on all the latest developments in the local athletic picture. As a feature attraction each week I interview some outstanding Notre Dame athlete(s), and thereby give the listeners a more intimate acquaintance with the lads who make the headlines on the field of sports. At home basketball games I take part in the local broadcast over WHOT. . . . I hope these programs don’t appear to have been “cremated,” either through my own fault or the fault of the stations on which I appear.
Yes, it’s a lot of fun and a lot of good experience. But you know, Bob, there are a few other fellows in the Radio Club who are really doing a job—and doing it mighty well. The lads who are responsible for the birth of Station WND, I think, deserve a pat on the back from every one of us. ... We too like the music of WJVA, but we hope to have a few listeners around their radios ■when the other local outlets are broadcasting. They’re a good bunch of people at both WSBT and WHOT, and they are only too willing to give all of us out here a break. You know that.
Bill Halligan Lyons Hall
Dear Editor-
Each week when the Scholastic slides under the door, eager hands reach for same in an effort to become acquainted ■with the news of campus interest which has not reached them by word of mouth. Yes, gentlemen, the Scholastic for many years has been the recipient of many honors from various press associations. It has shown by its makeup and its stories that its editors are readerconscious—that they have tried sincerely to turn out a publication which could stand up to any college journal in the country—and that they certainly have the “know how” when it comes to good journalistic sense.
But, sorry to say, there is one point on which they are sorely lacking—and that is in the promotion of student activities. It seems that any undertaking not under their sponsorship is destined for a complete flop on their pages.
True, it is a responsibility and a duty for any publication to devote space for editorial comments—but it is also both a responsibility and a duty to stand ahead of the field when there presents the opportunity of boosting a student endeavor. After all, any undertaking by students
34
is not necessarily destined to become a complete flop, even though there are amateurs handling the project. Of course after viewing the columns of some of the illustrious writers on the campus, one might just possibly receive the impression that all is in vain.
Last week in a column written by Bob Vierhile, the slams continued with each line permeated with a sarcastic vein. The target—the Notre Dame Radio Club. Among other interesting sidelights, the Club has been told that “no Radio Club presentation would be cremated over the local outlet (the new South Bend radio station—WJVA).” Is this, as he intimated, sweet music to the ears of Notre Dame men and the citizens of South Bend? Well, fellows thanks for the encouragement—it’s always great news to hear that you’re blowing your brains out each week needlessly.
This semester the Notre Dame Radio Club has done all in its power with its meager resources to bring a bit of enjoyment to the student listeners. They have done something which has been left untouched around here for many many years. For months the club has been working day and night to build a campus radio station for the entertainment of the men on the campus. They have done nobly against odds and are now waiting for their new studio to be built at which time they’ll give their time each day to make life a bit more pleasant for the students.
Along with this new addition, the Club has been presenting two radio shows each week over WSBT in South Bend in an effort to make it possible for you to hear a program that is designed especially for you.
Mr. Vierhile places himself in the position of a radio critic—a professional critic—by casting remarks at the announcers of WSBT and WHOT. It might interest him to know that these same announcers have been very kind to Notre Dame in innumerable ways and we’re sure they appreciate such gratitude. If Bob listened to WJVA as he claims he would hear announcers who excel at “Ah’s” between sentences, mispronunciations and other mistakes, but a professional critic such as he, may see merit in this type of announcing. Bob should concern himself more with journalism. Anyone who can print such clever items as “If you were to hold your head under water for fifteen minutes, you would be able to reach the bottom of whatever you-were-holding-your-head-in without swimming,” should give it a test run. Any more such columns and we suggest that Bob rename his column “THE WEAK.” Thanks, Mr. Vierhile, for making it known that our shows are so terrifically hot that they “cremate” the av
erage listener. Thanks, Bob, for the encouragement.
Authors of the Weekly Crematorium— “Notre Dame Dedicates”
Frank Venner and Marty Galvin
Messrs. Venner and Galvin certainly don’t read Scholastic with eager eyes. If they did, they’d find numerous student 4 activities plugged each week (e.g. Re-y lief Campaign, Dances, Blue Circle ij Kampus Keglers, etc.) including Station WND, which has often gone through my riad pains before it would allow a c story to be wrung from its tight-lipped • source.—E ditor.
WANT TO EARN $0000 A YEAR?
Would you like to be your own boss . . . with professional standing in your community? Then you’ll be interested in the opportunities offered by a career in life insurance selling for The Mutual Life. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
We invite you to send for our Aptitude Test, which predetermines your chances for success in this field. After taking the test, you’ll hear from our manager in or near your community. If you can qualify, we offer a 3-year on-the-job training course, with a special income plan to help you become established. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Plan provides an opportunity for earnings limited only by your own efforts ... plus a liberal retirement income at 65. Mail the coupon today!
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK 34 Nzsttu Street	Alexander E. Patterson
NewYorkS.N.Y. SflF	President
FIRST IN 3^ AMERICA
PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST NAME_____________________________________
innRFgt;
CITY____________________________-
1104
SCHCLAJTIC’S
ILI tNT OPINION POLL
THIS WEEK’S QUESTION:
Whai do- ifou think o^ the. gcholaAlic?
NEWS:
1.	Are Scholastic news stories well written? ________________
2.	Is there enough news in the Scholastic? .............................................................................
3.	Does the Scholastic give adequate coverage to campus news and proportionately balance it with administration news?
0
SPORTS:
1.	Does the Scholastic give adequate coverage to Interhall sports? ___________________________________________________________
2.	Do you think, as does the Scholastic, that varsity teams should be sponsored in some of the minor sports, e. g., boxing, swimming, wrestling, etc.? ______________________________________________________________________________________________
3.	Does the Scholastic give too much attention to varsity athletes, particularly football players? ___________________________
FEATURES: Rank, in order of preference, those five of the following feature stories you considered best —
Inside Notre Dame (Sept. 26) The “New Look” (Oct. 3) Political Opinion Poll (Oct. 10) Regis College (Oct;. 10) “Rock” of Lyons (Oct. 10) The Burning Question (Oct. 24) Hallowe’en Ghosts (Oct. 31) Cleveland (Oct. 31)
, Band Initiation (Nov. 7) ir
0 COLUMNS:	Rank
Campus Clubs	........
The Week	........
College Parade	........
Scorner’s Seat	........
Music - Books - Radio 	 Splinters	.
Cheney’s Chatter .............
Over the Goalposts ...........
DEPARTMENTS:	Rank
Letters	.......
Calendar	—......
From Editor’s Desk ......... N. D. Names Make News ....... Man About the Campus ........
Introducing	.......
Meet the Editor	.......
Football Parlays (Nov. 7)	_________
Cadets Come . . . Irish See (Nov. 14)	_________
Tomorrow’s Target. . . Chicago (Nov. 14) _______
Cavanaugh Gridders (Nov. 21)	________
Rosary College (Dec. 5)	■________
Natural Law Institute (Dec. 19)	________
Holiday-Time — Hop-Time (Dec. 19)	________
Today’s Student World (Dec. 19)	_________
Comment
Comment
•COVERS: Of the covers used this semester what four did you like best, in order of preference?	'
1	. ........................................................   3-------------------------------------------------------
2..................J.......................................... 4......................................................
"THERE’S ONE THING CAN ALWAYS COUNT ON WITH ru«-"
RING IN CECIL B. DEMILLES GREAT TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION "UNCONQUERED" A PARAMOUNT P»*”-
MILDER Ig BETTER TASTING <g COOLER SMOKING^^ RIGHT COMBINATION • WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS