. 
-·---~-­
. . 
. IR.ISH BASEBALL SMASHES SEASON WIDE OPEN : ND VISION. SEES THE LIGHT . 
. . . ' . . -' --. ."; . ,......, 

10 APR 2003 

CoreG 
10n 
Students are questioning the value of the Arts & Letters requirement 



» ND Cribs by Beth Giudicessi 14 » Everyone's Favorite Benchwarmer by Annie Robinson 16 » Summer Fun ... by Le'Tania Severe 26 » Spring Streak by Mike lselin 22 » A Winning Combination by Ryan Greene 29 
From the Editor  2  Week in Distortion  25  
ND Notebook  4  Out of Bounds  30  
Campus W_atch  18  Calendar  31  
Splinters  20  Final Word  32  

Evaluating Core's Value 
by Jim Ryan , COVER: Notre.Dame's Core program is plagued by complaints from some and defended by others. Who's right and is change likely? 

A Summer Camp for the Spirit 
by Nick f:olman-Mdandle h
1 

I 
In on y its secon year.of existence, t e ND Vision teen youth program looks to continue having a positive influence on high-schoolers, and a little fun, too. 

Slow-motion Success 
by Tracy Evans · Everclear lead singer Art Alexakis talks 
to Scholastic about his struggles and the 
success of his new album. 


O7·· 12 
. 
28 

r-------~­
;: . f
F· 

\ ''' 
'\....._.:.····~· -~-'"· 

look for the 
NEXT 
ISSUE 
in the 

FALL 


'RESPONDTO: MKILLEN@i\Jb.EDU l 

. ·., ___ :__ • ·----~·---·---~.. •:-·. ·-·,.~--~_,,,· ,~-. '":. _,_ .. ..~.: ~2 ~-:· ''.-~~'~.--·: <. _·---~·~~-~ 


Questioning Core 
I had heard the complaints. 

All I knew about the mysterious Arts & Letters requirement was that I would hate it. Everybody else did. I had heard about the workload, the inconvenience for my schedule and the horror stories about those select few professors who could 
make life.miserable. ·· · · So, as a freshman, when DART time came, I did what any reasonable person would do -I picked my Core at random. I knew nothing more than the time and the place. I was prepared for the worst. But I got lucky. The first thing my professor told our class was to throw away the syllabus -we were going to do our own thing at our own pace. Ofall the books we read, some came from the syllabus, but many were picked by the professor and my fellow classmates. As the class unfolded, the workload was light and the company was fun -I thought Core was pretty sweet. 
I began to notice that my friends weren't exactly having the same experience. One friend did nothing but continuously write for his Core class. Another got so tired of his class that he skipped over 30 of their sessions -and his professor 
didn't care. 

Only later did I realize that these inconsistencies -the professors who fol­lowed their own path, the ones who flooded their students with work and those that didn't even want to be there -were part ofthe reason why students have such conflicting opinions about the class. 
These opinions are as prevalent today as they ever have been. On page 7, Scholastic's Jim Ryan reports on the confusion surrounding the current Core re­quirement, and what's being done about it. Many students at this university must take Core, but everyone who is enrolled here should take notice of the broader issue at hand: How student complaints and discontent over academics are viewed by the different colleges at the university. 

Another Year Is Done 
This will be the last issue of Scholastic until next fall. On behalf of the staff, I wish everyone the best ofluck on upcoming exams. To all the seniors, good luck with whatever life you decide to lead. To everyone else, enjoy your summer. We'll all be back before you know it. 

Matt Killen, Editor 

Vol. 144, No. 12 • 10 APR 2003 
SCHOLaSTIC 
>i Editor in Chief !·1 Matt Killen , l Managing Editor ! i Annie RobinsonIjAssociate Editor f i Sean DudleyI 'Executive Design Editor j Ryan Greenberg 
· Assistant Managing Editor 
;I 
Mike Borgia 
. News Christopher Kelly, editor Jim Ryan, assistant Eileen Varga, assistant 
Campus Life Jennifer Osterhage, editor Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, editor Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Ryan Greene, assistant Le'Tania Severe, assistant 
Departments Meghan Gowan, editor ­Elise DeBroeck, assistant 
Design 
Nick Abrams, cover Eric Doversberger Crista Moen David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
Photography 

. Mike McNary, editor Phil Hall, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor . 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief 

. Ma Ertel, assistant John Hadley, assistant Jennifer Wadkins 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
Business Jessie Potlsh, manager.. Mary Ursu, manager 

· Online Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine Is Copyright© 2003. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part, may be reproduced in any man­ner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic 

• . magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited :, manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be \ sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, 
., Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published In the next Issue, 
letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before · the Issue. Our student publication Is superior to your . student publication. All letters must include the writer's 
name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names wlll be withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 

··• days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The sub­scription rate Is $35 per year. Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or 
· . date. Coples of the annual football review are available 
: at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
· student body. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
10 APRIL 2003 

It's har_d to put a price on good taste. How doef $2.99 sound? The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

, Got the urge?™ · The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
r--------------------------------------------1------l 

IPop Goes the Free·Refreshments Famished students visiting Co-Mo are walking away empty-handed 
CHRISTOPHERKELLY 
or college students short on cash, the word 
F
"free" has always had a special meaning. 
Since March 2001, one campus staple for those in search of a complimentary cola has been the comfortable lounges ofthe Coleman­Morse Center, which are oven 21 hours a day. A soft drink dispenser and popcorn machine served treats to anyone from those studying in the afternoon to those returning to campus late at night. However, since mid-February, many Domers seeking to quench their thirst have been met with a cloth covering the machines. 
What is the reason for this sudden change? Were the former treats just a temporary tease? 
Sophomore Michael Spencer, who _studies in the lounge, thinks that lack offinancial sup­port is behind the stoppage. "It probably has something to do with the budget cuts," he says. "They'vebeen cuttingbackon everything, so it makes sense that this is next to go." 
Actually, money wasn't the cause of the · decision to tum off the machines, which had dished out about 3,000 servings per week. The 

1.--1------------------l 
I Ten Questions
I with the head of American Studies 


explanation is quite simple-the machines are turned offfor Lent. "We feel that Lent is a sea­son for us to focus on almsgiving, prayer and fasting," says Priscilla Wong, assistant director ofAdministration & Cross-Cultural Ministry. "So, in place ofsoft drinks we are offering the students reflection materials and rosaries." 
Spencer was a little smprised to learn that this 


This Thursday evening, the American Studies lecture series will be bringing a different type of p,vgram to campus. Rather than the usualprofes­sor at a podium or visiting speaker, the "Where Art Thou Boys, " a local folk band featured at such nooks as Fiddlers Hearth, will be livening up the music scene with their songs ofprotest and social commentary. The band will be featuring popular songs fivm '60s culture as well as some original work Scholastic met with Giamo, who is responsible for the program, and discussed how it is important to face the music. 
Why did you decide to deviate from the format of the lecture series this week? 
I wanted to do something that was not analytical, that was more performative. I wanted something geared much more for students. 
decision was made because ofa Catholic holy 
season and doesn't think it was a wise choice. 
''Those machines were the main draw of this 
room. Ifyou want quiet, you can go anywhere 
oncampus. But this had a great atmosphere and 
free food." 
The change has not gone unnoticed 
by students. "Some students have indeed 
raised questions and we are glad that they 
have because it gives us the opportunity 
to explain the situation and share thoughts 
on the meaning of Lent," says Wong. 
Spencer, however, does not believe that the 
center should be sharing its views on Lent 
in this manner. "I kind of think that they 
shouldn't make up our minds for us on what 
we can or can't eat or_ drink during Lent," 
he says. "But I guess things will be back to 
normal soon." 
More specifically, in less than two weeks. 
Fortunately for thirsty students like Spencer, Lent is drawing to a close. But one ques­tion remains: Why isn't the drink machine · plugged in on Sundays? D 
What role does music play in social awareness? 
Inthe' 60s, music was the vehicle ofawareness. And it really did give the '60s generation in general a kind ofcognitive roadmap to social, political, and cultural missions. 
How has the tone of music reflected a change in national consciousness since · 9-11? 
Well, I listened to the Boss -The Rising. That's the first thing that comes to my mind related to that event. 
Several current artists have contributed to war awareness -why do you think the songs have received such minimal airtime? 
Radios are in business. They don't want to 
4 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 
10 APRIL 2003 







LISTE 

"What's Scholastic?" -overheard student
) 

"No one sees genitals? You're all repressed Catholics, eh?" -psychology professor, ) showing ink-blot tests to the class 
"I love stupid P.eople. They're like little snacks for my ego." -overheard student
) 

HEY YQU. ..~!~--,

i:-. .. .. . . . . 1·· ~wJll i!fli.1,)j)Jilj',-lfi! t\f®t:l:i. lliillMJ iJ!) l!iti
I·· ...ifilllM,{i)r(iJTi!lli(W!Jiif:lifl:iihl . . 

147 Years Ago The Times They Are a Changin' 
March 12, 1954, Gordon Bergquist 
published a serious reflection on life 
of the "Notre Dame Man" after col­
lege, specifically on the relationships 
with the opposite sex, what he likes to 
call WOMAN. Gordon professes that 
though he "may be presumed by many 
to know very little ... He has thought 
a lot." 
" ... The idea seems to be that the 
woman is for pleasure, rather than for 
living. The curious thing seems to be that 
many people -women included -have 
determined that Women do not need to 
live ... [Many] do not seem to realize 
that a woman is also a human being ... 
A woman needs a lot of things -mostly 
little things, to ~e sure. Many men seem 
to think that all a woman needs is a man. 
And it seems logical, that if a woman 
needs such things, she should be given 
them ... I'm not out to prove anything. 
I've got nothing_against women -in 
fact, I rather likethem." 
-Meghan Gowan 

How do you see the media's contribution to our perception of the war efforts? 
The role of the media in general I think is to reinforce the administration's position, not to challenge it. The danger ofembeddedjoumal­ists is that, by being attached to these units, they are building an identification, and that carries through so they lose objectivity. 
What do you hope to achieve with Thurs­day's program? 
We need to touch base with our own culture and history, and music I think is at the very heart of American culture and its expression. And it is so visceral. It informs the mind about awareness but it does so in a way that stirs the heart, and sometimes, punches us in the gut. 
~ Tracy Evans 
lose their audience so they want to play it safe. It's a foirn of censorship. Unfortunately, radio stations now have become very canned, very commercial and are excluding a lot of interesting music that could be formative to the next generation. 
Do you believe that today's generation of music listeners is apathetic to the moving power of lyrics? 
Well, we get conditioned ... We're just so in­undated. This is the overload information age, and music is just one part of that. It can, then, lose its distinctiveness as a social force. 
During Vietnam, many songs raised social questions -do you have a favorite? 
I am quite partial to Dylan's "Hard Rain." I admire the way that it combines both nuclear holocaust with civil rights. I think that combination was very powerful in the '60s. 

Is dissent or social criticism necessarily unpatriotic? 
I don't think we'd be here today ifit weren't for American dissent. It's at its heart very pa­triotic. The Declaration oflndependence is the first document ofdissent. I think it's part ofthe freedom and liberty that we have, to speak up for a minority opinion. 
What is your interpretation of a "peaceful solution"? 
I mean we want a peaceful solution, but in order to achieve it, we're going to destroy ... Towalk in peace is a nice saying but sometimes it's not possible, and sometimes it is. 
10 APRIL 2003 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


their label boss. Toss in undercover cop Lou Diamond Phillips posing as a female prostitute, and you've got the plotto HollywoodHomicide. No, seriously. 
. July and August are even worse. Romantic .comedies likeHow to Deal, asaccharineMandy Moore vehicle, will hit screens. Tough Love features BenAffleck, J Lo and a mentally chal­lenged man whom they kidnap, while Shao/in Soccer showcases the story of a group ofpals · who decide to put their mastery ofkung fu to as 
noble apwpose as possible: 

moderate amount of forming a winning soccer
Unfortunately, for every
unoriginality. Notonly team. Oh, and don't forget
winner, Hollywood pumps
is this a misconceived Seabiscuit. It's based on 
out a number of mediocre
remake of the 1979 the true story of a 1930s comedy (remakes are (not to mention outright race horse named "Seabis­notorious for failing terrible) flops. cuit." Talk about exciting. to live up to original No summer movie sea­
version's standards), 
but the theme ofin-laws involved in wacky hi­. jinks has been done to death in recent months. 
Speaking ofremakes, The Italian Job stars 
Mark Wahlberg and Charlize Theron in a 
more action-packed remake ofthe 1969 caper . 
comedy, staning Michael Caine. First Charl­
ton Heston, and now Michael Caine. The day 
Marky Mark takes overfor Robert Redford in a 
remakeofAllthePresidents Men isthe daythat · 
Tinseltown finally admits it has no shame. 
The outlook for June also is bleak, as evi­
denced by 2 Fast 2 Furious, the sequel to The 
Fast and theFurious. Its predecessormayhave 
done well at the box office, but that's no excuse 
for such an idiotic title. Expect the sequel to be 
more unabashedly inane than the original. 
Picture this: Hamson Ford, real estate agent, 
teams up with Josh Hartnett, yoga instructor, 
to investigate the murder of a rap group by 

. son is. complete without the many sequels. 2 Fast}_furious shares the . coming months with ill-conceived projects like Lara Croft: Tomb Raider: The CradleofL!fe and Terminator 3: Rise ofthe Machines. 
None of these movies measures up to what promises to be the mostmind-bogglingly awful film ofthe season: From Justin to Kelly. That's right, the country will be granted a second chance to sufferthrough the antics ofAmerican Idol's Justin Guarini and Kelly Clarkson, this time in the form of a musical romantic comedy. There really is nothing more painful than that. 
So for those who plan to venture into amovie theater this summer, proceed with caution; it's going to be a rough road. I'll just have my fin­gers crossedthat Disney's Pirates ofthe'Carib­bean: The Curse ofthe Black Pearl involves little more than funny music and animatronics gone mad. . 
IDomelights COMPILED BY KC KENNEY AND MEGHAN GOWAN Source: weather.com climatology data 
They say that you experience alot of firsts in college. The painful first realization is that wet hair plus South Bend weather means having hair that can be snapped like Icicles.This is a ' · week into Aprill Is it supposed to be this cold? Temperature this past Tuesday: 
Daily high and low: 30°F Average high temperature: 59°F Record high temperature: 76°F in 1969 Average low temperature: 38°F Record low temperature: 11 °F In 1972 
6 SCHOIJ\STICNOTEBOOK 10 APRIL 2003 



,HMRYAN 
Current freshman Lauren Messina will double major in psychology and film, tele.vision and theatre next year. Until recently, however, Mes.sina seriously considered a double major in marketing and FTT, which would have placed her primary major in the College ofBusiness. She wasn't interested in a business career, but she was thinking a year in the business school would be worth getting out ofCore, a yearlong }equired course for sophomore Arts & Letters majors. "I heard [Core] was so dumb," she says. Stories like Messina's are not uncom­mon at J\J()tre Dame. In the past, some sophomores have declared majors in other colleges just to avoid the class, intending to switch into the College ofArts & Let­ters as juniors. So what is it about Core that causes some students to do anything and ev­erything possible to steer clear of the requirement? The literature, fine arts and foreign language requirements for Arts & Letters students do not appear to be as hotly contested, making many students wonder if the Core program adheres to its goals. "I think Core is not a bad idea in principle; but it is poorly executed," 
10 APRIL 2003 

sophomore David Salmon, a history ma­jor, says. Changes may be on the horizon for Core, however, as the popularity of the program has diminished during its 23 years of existence. 
!......·..•··•·•·• ·:1:1ni·111<•·•·•••the.. ••••corei••······• 
: i P.r2,9ff~~,has·gbRd . , in~e9!i995;-t,b~t ... 1 
I··•·.. 

Effiil~)Wi~(i@,Ji§pffQffi9[fI·•I 
. ,:i 
Prior to 1979, all students in the College of Arts & Letters were required to take a class called the Collegiate Seminar, es­sentially a gre[lt books course. The Core program was established when the Col­lege Council, the body responsible for examining the practices and procedures of the College ofArts & Letters, decided that the Collegia_1:e Seminar nee~ed rein­vigoration. 

The impetus behind the program was a desire to create an environment of intel­lectuality at Notre Dame, says Ruthann Johansen, associate director of the Core program. "There was a feeling that students were doing their coursework requirements, but they weren't reading books much outside what was required, and there weren't as many opportunities for students to engage in intellectual dis­cussion," Johansen says. She cites such schools as Harvard and Columbia as mod­els, noting that both have strong courses similar to Core that encourage study and discussion oftopics outside an individual student's major. 
Keeping in mind this desire to create an intellectual community, the Council developed an interdisciplinary course that pooled resources from the many departments within the College ofArts & Letters, including anthropology, literature, history and theology. The course, designed to focus on the "core" elements of a lib-
SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 7 

eral education, was centered on four basic topics: nature, society, self and God. The program had three primary objectives: to foster general literacy and introduce stu­dents to formative works and ideas, to provide an opportunity to reflect on epistemology, and to introduce the students to the various re­sources within the College ofArts & Letters, exposing all students to the social sciences, the humanities and the fine arts. According to Jo­hansen, these objectives essentially remain unchanged today. 
Since Core is an interdisciplinary course, professors from all Arts & Letters departments are required to teach over 40 different sections. The program requests a certain number of professors from each department based on the size ofthat department. "Some faculty like to teach Core and teach it regularly," says Johansen, who teaches a sec­tion herself. Other professors are more reluctant to teach the course. Former Core professor Laura Crago ofthe Department ofHistory notes that teaching an extra class places an additional burden on professors. Crago says she chose to teach a particular section because she had already read the books listed on its syllabus. 
One consequence of pooling professors from the various Arts & Letters departments is that the professors often must teach outside their specialties. Johansen says that this is beneficial for the students and the professor. "Students and faculty together are probably in a more egalitarian relationship as co­learners than they usually are," she says. Core professor Romana Huk, a member ofthe Department ofEng­lish, agrees. "I thought [teaching outside my discipline] would make me uncomfortable," she says. "But I go into the class like another student. I can be another reader ofthe text with them." Huk says that her reading the texts along with the students helps to create what she calls 
8 SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 


a reading community, which is important it is democratic. "It helped to give students in a class where knowledge about texts is more ofthe reins for the course," Huk says. generated through conversation. The conversational nature of the class is, Student conversation is the crux of the according to Johansen, a facet of Core that students seem to enjoy. Kristen Henkel, a sophomore, says, "I like discussion personally because it lets you go off on a different tangent." 
~ -'--'-4 
She adds that the diversity in her
,__.._ -.. -.7-~ ;_:::·---------­
-.... t ~ ,l .t?: ­'.',, 

;;: ,::: class makes the discussion stimu­
-~ ·--·,_ ':._/;-~ 
. ···,;· -..,,.....,.._._______

-
~ 
lating. "I feel like there are a lot of 
'/j:;, 
• interesting people in my class ... We have a lot of people from different backgrounds." 
With student participation so vital in the Core experience, enthusiasm is a priority. However, Arts & Let­ters students have taken issue with the course for a number ofreasons, ranging from dislike ofthe readings to concerns about a lack ofstandard­ization between sections, and aver­sion to taking a yearlong, required course. These and other complaints create a negative perception about Core that students hear throughout their freshman year. "I heard [Core] was a big waste of time," Henkel says. Salmon adds, "I heard vague reports from upperclassmen talking about how bad it is." 
Johansen says she is aware of students' perceptions of the Core program and knows that many freshmen hear horror stories about

"Core fasters an abiding 
the course and therefore go out of their way to avoid it. She regrets that students make the decision to forego the Core program based solely on stories from upperclassmen. "I 
appreciation.,for_the. 

liberal .. arts" 
think when people hear stories like · 

Core course. In Huk's class, for example, the students pose and answer all of their own questions, with the professor serving merely as a guide. Huk feels that her stu­dents have enjoyed this structure because 
that they think that they must really mean that Core is a bad course, but I think that's only part ofthe picture," she says. Johansen does, however, recognize that there is no feasible way to control the scheduling tactics of Arts & Letters students: "I also think that students are going to do what they are going to do ... I wish their choices were as well-informed as they could be." One major complaint about Core is that individual sections vary greatly, and 
10 APRIL 2003 

) 
students claim that there are blatant dis­parities in the difficulty of the workload and the actual number of pages assigned by different Core professors. Salmon, for example, says he read close to 150 pages for every Core class period last semester compared to much fewer for a dif­ferent professor this semester; he adds that his class has a reputation for being a "slacker" section. Hen­kel says that her class's workload is so heavy that it is unrealistic for the students to keep up with all the reading. 
Sophomore Emily Wiering adds that the greatest discrepancy among the different sections is in the amount of writing. The Core program mandates that students write at least 20 pages ofevaluated work; however, the 20 pages may be divided in any man­ner the section's professor sees fit. As a result, some sections may end up writing a few very long, important papers while others may write several informal reflec­tions that do not carry the same weight in the student's overall grade. 
Johansen says she knows that discrepan­cies in course load and grading frustrate students, and she outlines several mecha­nisms in place intended to alleviate the problem. She notes that the program publishes its common requirements and suggests that all sections see a dramatic 

"They cram so much into two semesters" 
.David Salmon, sophomore 
performance and tour the Snite museum over the course of the semester. She also mentions the advent of the Core Writing Program, in which Core professors share ideas for assignments and share their students' essays with hopes of reaching a somewhat standardized means for evaluat­ing the work of Core students. 
Johansen says that individual professors in the Core program must have a relative degree offreedom; therefore, the program can only make suggestions to its profes­sors with regards to teaching the course. She acknowledges that standardization can't be coerced without the program appearing to be a "heavy-handed tyrant." 

Johansen says that common require­ments for the Core courses are laid out clearly, but the difficulty lies in enforcing these requirements in all of the classrooms. 
Another point of contention has been the program's departure from a common syllabus for all sections, which occurred in 1999. Two years earlier, the College Council reevalu­ated Core and determined that a wid­er variety ofArts & Letters teachers 

should have the opportunity to teach the course. To arrange this, the Core program created several experimental Core syl­labi that were interdisciplinary around a common theme. These themes include Children and_Childhood, Environment, Freedom and Gender. These syllabi were introduced four years ago, and roughly half of the Core sections now use an ex­perimental syllabus. 
Professors encourage i students in the Core ' program to take 
lessons learned in the course outside of the classroom. Many students meet together for informal discussions or to work on projects. 

10 APRIL 2003 SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 9 

The experimental syllabi have produced professor and a different syllabus for the plaint about Core being a yeariong, i:e-· mixed results, Johansen says. An obvious spring, without a say in the decision. "I can quired course, and responds by saying benefit was that new faculty members understand the students' point there," Jo­that the requirement provides a unique were introduced to the Core program. At hansen says. She explains that this lack of learning opportunity that many students the same time, Johansen points to tradeoffs choice is the result ofa logistical difficulty. would not otherwise experience. "I have made as a result. "It did work against the She says the Core program feels it is very had students in Core come and say, 'You 
all sections. Johansen covers several different is unsure if the experimental syllabi will important to keep each class of students academic areas, rather than focusing on be eliminated completely. She says that together for an entire year. Due to restric­one topic. Salmon agrees : "It seems like one alternative would be to mandate the tions on the number ofcourses professors a waste of time ... They cram so much discussion of three specific works in all can teach, though, it is very difficult for into two semesters." These students sug­sections, allowing the professor to pick professors to teach Core in consecutive gest that taking classes in their majors three more books at his or her discretion. semesters. As a result, students are stuck · would better fulfill the Core program's 
While the additional experimental cours­with whichever professor is available to general desire to liberally educate'Art.~ & ­es were intended to provide students with teach Core in the spring semester, and with Letters students, as they feel this wouid· al­more freedom in selecting classes, some whatever syllabus that professor prefers .. low them to do in-depth studies of certain students say the opposite has happened. Some students will inevitably be assigned academic areas. "Core takes a class spot Although students can choose which sec­a topic or professor that would not be one I could have filled with something else in tion they would like to be in for the fall of their first choices. my major and gotten much more out of," semester, they are often assigned a new Johansen says she has heard the com-says Wiering. 
x•,' C, .,,·.,:• ._., • •• •:••:·•·'.:•··, '" • ,,' ••. ,', '• •''· •,:•• ,· • .._;,,,• '• •... , ,. ,',(".,:lC,'." . :", ',·•.c•_-,· ': i ·,'," >. •,'>.-,,•ooh.,·.•.,_·:,;· :-•._".,•.,'>'. ,,.· ,• ·,• • "' • •· • ,C• ·-•~-~-," ,, • •.,,"" • .•., .o.•.. • "• • f. 
~-Core Choices J;
.~~~=1°a~dci~ed

J. .Thefollowing are selected required texts froin several Corn · ·Antigone . . [ 
•l sections for the 2002-2003 school year, as indicated on the Core The Alltobiograhy of Frederick Douglass i­] Course Program 1/1/eb site, . • Gender Core f r'.l http://www.nd.edu/-core. Figh(Club f 
t:,_i_',: • Children and Childhood Core· . ~h~a:;~~:~;un · · _ [ 
The Measure of Our Success:_ A Letter to My • Nature & Society Core 1 Children and Yours. There are No Children Here · :1 A History-of Childhood Ishmael ;· 
: Kids at Work and the Crusade Against Child Labor The Au_tobiography of Malcolm X [i.'1 ·• Environmental Core • ~elf & God Core !( '! · Silent Spring ·.The Tempest ~: f-~--. · Fast Food Nation The Color Purple . • --~;-~_­'1 At Home in· the Cosmos The Brothers Karamazov· .·.. ': 
;;; 

:l.,·•----.•-·--e<•·..-..,_ ......J-.,•,... -.,...v .....:, ..,... ;;, ..... _.,._.·,c,::c:..-...... ry;::ss.-,,..>.•·.•.·...,,,_, .-..•:,-::,·,_,,· ... ·-.d.;;,,.:.e-...c,co,,.•,.._,_.,:..~.·-,.•.--.,:.DX:;,'.;,_..·,.,,.-.... ·._ ..=----·:··-cc->;-,:___~Ji'. 
10 SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 
10 APRIL 2003 


Johansen disagrees, however. "None of us will live our lives in our major fields. We are going to have to interact with peo­ple and with issues that are sometimes far 
afield from our special-,-_ ---.-----­
to a lack of stimulation and interest in the read­ing----:-a big problem in a class structured 
entir~ly around student participation. Wi­
ering calls her class readings "redundant," saying the section didn't need to read as many books on Darwin as it did. "At that point, it didn't promote discussion." 
Salmon laughs: "After reading one an­thropology book, I don't know all about anthropology. They should change the curriculum so you can get more out of the reading." 
Johansen says that the books on the various syllabi-are determined by the Core Council, a group ofprofessors from various Arts & Letters departments. They try to choose books that focus on the Core program's topics from various epistemo­logical perspectives. Johansen notes that 
I . 
the program's li~t of common procedures gives professors some leeway to change the texts if their students do not enjoy them. The procedures say, "Faculty may substitute new material that deviates from the common syllabus for up to two or three class days per section." · 
Johansen also cites the Core Congress as a means by which the program responds to student complaints about texts, in addition to other concerns. The Core Congress con­sists of one student from each Core sec­tion, and meets once per semester to foster dialogue among the sections, permit them to make comments and criticisms about the curriculum and invite suggestions for improvement. But is this an accurate portrayal? 
Salmon currently serves on the Core Congress. At last semester's meeting, the 
10 APRIL2003 
Congress spoke about what each section does in class as well as what they thought of the readings; in addition, they debated the positives and negatives of the Core 
izations. Core begins to introduce students to an 
: ' i 

openness and respect for . ·1 
I

f<,wif~e~n:fBlt~fiXiif(~~(1]r·(;~ink~~ Q~Y~:Y¢t.·
different ideas and differ­ent cultural and religious 

:-_ reached the )ult potenti9I, ,i~d _;"!fe ~onii think _it does~·t : i 
traditions," she says. Some students find fault with the actual texts 

i ll~!d.f.tiii9§iQijf· ...·...·--..----
·• •·• i:;:tRuthann)Qhijrjsen';··.-• 
chosen.for Core, pointing course. Salmon says the Congress made the general suggestions that the workload be lessened and that the students be better informed about the. different syllabi and professors. Salmon does not know ifthese suggestions were fruitful. "I haven't-seen anything come of [the suggestions]," he says, but he_ appreciates the opportunity to discuss Core. 
Johansen believes that the Core Con­gress is effective. She says many changes that the Congress brings about are stu­dent-generated. Students take ideas from the Core Congress and, after discussion with their professors, apply these ideas for their own sections. She says the faculty welcomes positive or negative feedback about the subject matter, books and syllabi ofthe experimental core. She also notes that the Core program has held events, such as lectures, based on sugges­tions from the Congress, and adds that the Congress' feedback after those events determines whether or not the program will hold them again. "Obviously we can't satisfy all of their preferences and ideas, but I do know that we take what [the Congress] says very seriously," she says. 
As the College Council prepares to meet this spring, Johansen says the Core program will be on its agenda. In addition to suggesting in February that the Core program return to a common syllabus, in­dividual members ofthe College Council have suggested changing the name of the course, reducing it to one semester, or eliminating the course altogether. None of these suggestions have yet to come to a vote. Mark Roche, dean of the College ofArts & Letters, said at the meeting that no changes to the Core program would 

take effect until the fall of 2004. 
Johansen hopes that the Core program 
survives. "We see the potential," she says. 
"We don't think we have yet reached the full potential anci we don't think that it doesn't need changing." 
"I want a commitment to making [Core] the very best that it can be," Johansen says. "I wish we could get a college-wide com­mitment to make some form of the Core program stellar." She wants Core to be a course that faculty desire to teach, and she hopes the faculty who cannot teach serve as resources for the program by lecturing and making other contributions outside the classroom. 
Despite its flaws, Core is still an invalu­able part of the Arts & Letters education, Johansen says. "At its best," she says, "I think Core contributes to the development ofthe intellectual life and fosters an abid­ing appreciation for the liberal arts in a democratic_ society." 
But improvements may be necessary to renew student interest in the course. Most students agree that the Core program's objectives are worthwhile, but that the program is not fulfilling those objectives. "I think the Core program has good inten­tions ofpromoting discussion. But some­where along its path the class has become meaningless," says Wiering. 
With student dissatisfaction showing no signs of abating any time soon, are changes in store for the Core program? "I don't kriow What kind ofideas may come," says Johansen. "I think the future ofCore is an open question." . 
SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 11 


ND Vision encourages teens to find and live their vocations 


NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
n June 16, while some students will 
be lying on beaches, filing documents 
in an office building, or settling down to the third nap ofthe day, the amphitheatre of 101 DeBartolo will once again be brim­ming with students. But these young people haven't gathered for a summer course in or­ganic chemistry or physics. They aren't even 

'I college students. That Monday 
O
the overwhelming success oflast summer's program prompted over 100 undergradu­ates to apply for 50 new counselor posi­tions. "Nobody expected this program to be as powerful for the undergrads as it has been," says Parrish. "It blew people away." Ten returning counselors will round out a team of60 "mentors in faith," a title indica­tive ofthe role they hope to play. 
will begin the four-week long

j "Nobody expected this
project dubbed ND Vision, a se­
ries offive-day retreats for high school students from around the 

program to be as powetiul 
country. "How will your gifts change 

for the undergrads as
the world?" asks the brochure of the Notre Dame Vocation Initiative (NDVI), ofwhich ND 


it has been." 
Vision is a branch. "God has a plan for each of us," says Dan Parrish, C.S.C. "Something that will make us deeply happy." Parrish, a Moreau seminarian pursuing a Master of Divinity degree, is one ofthe organizers of this year's program. The goal ofND Vision is simple, he says. The program hopes to help young people discern God's call in their lives and to provide tools for answer­ing that call. 
While the retreat's goal sounds straight­forward the coordinators have a daunting task ahead of them, especially considering the sheer number of people they hope to influence. Each Monday, beginning June 16 and continuing until July 14 (with a break for Independence Day week), 400 high schoolers will flood the Notre Dame campus, totaling approximately 1,600 by the end ofthe four-week program. 
ND Vision is only in its second year, but 
12 SCH0LASTICCAMPUSLIFE 
. 

Pendarvis describes the experience as the best summer of her life. "Music is a huge component of the week because it sets the tone," says Pendarvis. "It really draws people in and gathers them together." Mu­sic will be a pervasive element throughout each week, with musicians harmonizing between each activity and at all liturgical events. The music group, which calls itself 
-Dan Parrish, CSC, program organizer Curtin, who also sang and com­
"The Band ofSaint Cecilia," will also ente1tain with several Bible­themed musicals, all composed by fifth-year senior Tommy Curtin. In preparation for the summer, the 15 singers and five instrumentalists who make up the band are taking a one-credit course this semester, devoted to learning the summer's music and practicing the musicals. 
The mentors will undergo a six-week, one credit training course led by Dr. Jan Poor­man, sister ofthe Rev. Mark Poorman. The course focuses on inductive learning, which teaches counselors how to relate personal ex­periences to broader Christian values. Luke Slonkosky, a TA for the course and a re­turning counselor, elaborates: "It gives [the new counselors] the best perspective on what they're going to have to face." Slonkosky thinks that the moment the counselors first meet their students will be a very powerful and striking one. 
Music is also a powerful part of the program, and ND Vision has recruited an additional 20 undergrads as "musicians" for the four weeks. Lisa Pendarvis, the program's music director, was involved in last year's Vision retreats as a pianist. 

posed for the retreats last year, thinks the program "is a tremendous oppor­tunity for high school students. I feel like it's really impacting the ND community as well." 
The five-day schedule of events is jam­packed with activities from early morning to late evening. Each day is themed around the central goal ofhelping students identify God's vocation, or life calling. "Vocation, in this sense, is broadly conceived," says Par­rish. "We're not just talking about the sacra­ment ofholy orders.~ Some are called to be mothers and fathers with a family. Vocations can be professions, as well," he says. 
Daily themes range from "The Call to Discipleship" to "Discerning God's Call and Responding in Faith." 
In response to feedback from last sum­mer's participants, the retreat's schedule now includes a day devoted to the discussion 
10 APRIL 2003 







r---­
ROUNDING OUT THE DAY .(clockwise from top-left) ND Vision attendees talk with counselors, watch original musicals, play four-square, chat with fellow campers and sing songs duri~g their week on campus. 
ofvarious social relationships. Several nationally prominent speak­ers, bishops and Notre Dame faculty members also are scheduled to give presentations. 
All the returning mentors are excited about their second ND Vision summer. "I felt more alive than I ever have during those weeks. I want to feel like that again, but I shouldn't necessarily need a program to experience that. The opportunity to give is such a unique thing," .. says mentor Luke Slonkosky. He also hopes that by coming back he can improve his leadership as a team member. "It's an amazing feeling," he says, "putting yourself on the line for another counselor and knowing they'd do the same for you." 
The relationship among the 80 counselors (both mentors and mu­sicians) is in itself an incredibly satisfying result of the retreats. "In reaching ~mt to teenagers and trying to help them change," Pendarvis says, "you can't help but change yourself" Such sentiments echo Parrish's remarks about the. profound, yet unexpected effect the program had on the counselors. ND Vision now seeks to facilitate the growth ofinvolved Notre Dame students as well, helping them to discern their. own vocations. 
Last year's counselors still gather on a weekly basis with the simple goal ofuniting in regular prayer. Generally, they can be found at the Grotto (or Goleman-Morse during cold months) on Tuesday nights praying the rosary: "We wanted a prayer base," says Slonkosky, "All are welcome to join." Dinners together in the dining halls also are a frequent occurrence. 
Through conversation at these dinners, the idea arose for "Phase Two" ofthe ND Vision program. The current plan, spearheaded by several counselors from last year, is to bring a retreat format similar to the summer program to local high schools for a weekend during the school year. "I think Phase Two will become an integral part of the [ND Vision] experience," Slonkosky says. The goal is to provide an opportunity for counselors to use the leadership skills they've developed over the summer. 
The success and response from last year's program was positive, and expectations for this summer are yery high. Slonkosky admits that there is a fear involved the terror offacing 400 kids in DeBartolo who all expect an amazing week. That stress, however, fuels the dedication ofcounselors to give everything they have. The daunting nature of their task is an impetus to excel. "Last summer's program was life-transfonning for many, if not all, of the people involved," Parrishsays, "lt!s very inspiring." . 

10 APRIL 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE 13 

known for its signature balcony 
overlooking North Quad. This sanctuary above Farley's main doorway offers "the best view on campus," says junior resident Karrie Koski, and has been home to flowers, lawn furniture, a George Foreman grill, a Christmas tree, a giant snowman, a pink gorilla and a colossal panda. As former resident Laura Giannuzzi, a junior who is now abroad in Dublin, said, "It all started with a bal­cony and a dream ... the balcony was clutch." The room, a double, is also cur­rently home to junior Diana Laquinta. 
terialized during finals week in the fall. The roommates returned to see it peering in the window with a sign reading, "Help me." While its origins have not been confirmed, the residents suspect that the snowman's sign most likely came from a group of Fisher residents. 
The only downfall ofthe balcony? La­quinta insists on having an open window and Koski is, as Laquinta says, "petrified that a squirrel will come in." 
Inside, the room has competing themes. One includes blue and gold celestial decor, complete with sheets Another theme ~~~aquinta's fascination with moose. Not only does a moose oversee the comfortable living space, but Laquinta unabas edly enjoys sport­ing a moose hat. 

The room also om s evidence that life exists outside of S uth Bend with postcards from friends stm;lying abroad, posters of hometowns, and\\n eggplant gourd informing visitors tha\Laquni­ta's home state, New Jersey, p~duces two-thirds of the world's eggp'tants. And so it is with 219 Farley: A room ~4h a view ... both inside and out. Cl~! 

14 SCH0LASTICCAMPUS LIFE 10 APRIL 2003 

Room ith 




Pink G rilla's Back ide 
Farley's front b lcony room: home of two stud nts, a mystery snowman, a gia t panda, and­maybe some squirrels? Sounds 

((THcSUN"Wltt COME UP Thanks to some celestial 219 commands an impressive 
upholstry, amoon-shaped lamp visitors alike enjo the room's view of North Quad and the and ahealihy dose of Christmas sizeable film coll ction in Golden Dome. lights, the stars are always out comfort-anim I hats are In 219. optional. 




Everyone's Favorite Benchwarmer 
You know his face, but who is the man behind the smile? 
ANNIEROBINSON 
Walk by Main Building between 10. and 11 a.m. on any weekday, and he's there, come snow or sunshine. Current students couldn't tell you who he is, let alone explain his impact on the Notre Dame they attend today. But there's more to this man than a worn­
a ham in those days," he says. "Becoming a professor was an accident." 
But dreaming of going to Hollywood or Broadway wasn't practical for a student growing up during the Great Depression, and searching for a stable job led him to his second passion: chemistry. 
Notre Dame needed help in freshman laboratory classes, but Hofman was reluctant to Notre Dame. It should be a process while you're here," he says. 

Besides gaining campus-wide infamy for grueling seven-point chemistry quizzes ad­ministered on Fridays, Hofman also provid­ed his students a little levity during the stress of finals. He would lead "Emil Parades" to North Dining Hall where over 1,100 of his students anxiously awaited not the delivery 

~~-·•· z
ofHonor" plaque and other · ~ life. Serving as a Hall Fellow
THE DOCTOR IS IN Dr. Emil T. Hofman spends his morning with Notre Dame senior
accolades. He formally. 

Michael Flanagan on Hofman's favorite bench under the Dome. 
retired from the university in 1990, but chose to remain a presence on campus. "I come in every day as if I had a job, but I work without pay," he jokes. 
When asked about his various honors, the conversation inevitably shifts to far more humble topics. "I call this my field office," says Hofman, gesturing to the students, tour groups and faculty members that hurriedly walk past his post. He spends 8 to 10 a.m. in his windowless Nieuwland Science Hall office (which he shares with Prof. Anthony Trozzolo). After "punching in" under the Dome for an hour, he heads over to the Basilica for 11 :30 a.m. Mass, and then re­turns to his bench for two more hours ofhis celebrated "field research." 
"I get a lot of business here," Hofman says proudly, adding that "everybody's welcome." Hofman came to Notre Dame in 1950 as a chemistry graduate student and teaching assistant, never intending to become a professor. In fact, before attend­ing college, Hofman's sights were set on the stage, not on molecules and matter. "I was at first. He acquiesced and agreed to teach for one semester, but that promise didn't hold true for long. "The first day I stepped on that floor I knew what I wanted to do for the rest ofmy life," he says. "I satisfied my desire to be an actor at the same time -I had a captive audience." 
He completed his Ph.D. in 1960, and three years later he moved up the ranks to assis­tant chairman of the chemistry department. 

· By 1971, he was appointed the dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, where he made dramatic changes to freshman requirements. Then, freshmen had only to complete two semesters ofP.E., but Hofman felt first-year students would benefit from a broader cur­riculum. "I wanted an emphasis on general education, regardless of[ a student's] major," he says. Hofman's committee decided that students should sample different academic areas while at Notre Dame before deter­mining a major, rather than checking a box before enrollment. "Choosing your major or career goal is not a prerequisite for coming 
for Lewis Hall helps him to stay active in campus life. His spot by Main Building allows him still to connect with the people of Notre Dame he misses the most. He relishes visits from campus legends, like former student and University President the Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy and close friend the Rev. 
Theodore Hesburgh. "Hesburgh and I are a couple of octogenarians," Hofman says with a laugh. 
Casual conversations with students often turn to more serious advising sessions. Thanks to his own past struggles choosing a career, Hofman says he identifies with stu­dents who grapple with similar decisions. "I like to advise students who want to be doctors, but not go to med school. They feel lost," he explains. 
Despite his long list ofhonors, Hofman still says his heart was, and is, focused elsewhere. "I never cared for administrative work, never liked directing other people or being respon­sible for other people. What I enjoy more than anything was interacting with students. That's what I do now. I love it." D 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSLIFE 
10 APRIL 2003 

Subscribe to Scholastic today. 
12 Issues. lndepth Features. Your source for ND info. 
Get yours now by calling 631-7569 or emailing scholast@nd.edu. 
f.~ 
g 
I 

Do you want to remember your college years forever? Do you want to help others do the same? 


Join the Dome yearbook staff as a writer, photographer or editor! 
. 
previous yearbook experience beneficial but not necessary 

. 
for more Info or to set up an Interview email dome@nd.edu 







CAMPUS WATCH BY 



GIPPER 
The arrival ofApril at Notre Dame has always brought about many realiza­tions. Some are happy ("There're only two weeks of winter left"), some are sad ("Ahh, St. Mary's girls still exist") and some are downright depressing ("Damn, I'm running out of chances to read the precious words of that clever, sexy and funny Gip­per.") Good things can't last forever, my friends, but fortunately we do have a few tips to whet our springtime appetite. 
Irish Fairy Tale 
Our first tip comes to us from some lovely South Quadian ladies. It's the clas­sic Notre Dame story: Girl gets drunk, girl does something embarrassing, Gipp-loyal roommate sends in the tip, girl has one great memory in print. Nothing new, but the Gipp's not one to deny anyone their 15 minutes, so let's begin. 
This Cinderella had a little too much fun at the ball, so as she rushed home before the clock struck 2 a.m., she consequently forgot the exact location of her sleeping quarters. Happens to the best of us, but the Gipp has learned that our confused princess allegedly made one more mistake -she also forgot the difference between a bathroom stall and the lap of a girl sit­ting on a futon. Turns out this young lady stumbled into a dark room that wasn't even on the same floor as hers. This Gippling then pulled down her pants and prepared to do her business. The scared target on the futon screamed for her life, which prompted another resident of the room to rush in, turn on the lights and request that everyone just calm down, take a deep breath and put their pants back on. 
The two almost-victims attempted to lead the intruder upstairs to her room, but when they arrived where she had claimed she lived, she denied that she even lived on that floor. Our frustrated couple just gave up, leaving their newly-made friend to fend for herself. Our tipster reports that she did indeed make it back to her own room eventu­ally, but, ofcourse, has no recollection ofthe event. Being a drunken college girl who was oh-so-willing to take her pants off, our friend should appreciate that this occurence was the worst thing to happen to her that night. In a related story, a certain someone supposedly is now known to some hallmates as "naked drunk girl." Well, at least first impressions don't last forever, right? 
Nice To Meet You, Too 
This next one'§ a bit more complicated than usual, Gipp lings, so put down that drink and pay attention. 


A few mobsters were socializing in the high-class housing district just east ofcam­pus when someone nearby had the mature idea of starting a water fight. The group of males moved quickly to check out the scene ofthe fight. They soon noticed that, in clas­sic playground style, it was split down the middle in terms ofgender -boys vs. girls. So our subjects decided to help the girls by filling up pots and pans with water to dump on their opponents. 

The problem was, the newly-enlisted soldiers weren't too familiar with the en­emy. One young cadet spied someone re­lieving his troubles on a nearby wall, and, assuming he, too, was in on the action, dumped a pan ofwater on his head and ran away. The recipient of the baptism, who already had his blood riled up with some happy juice, was not too pleased with the 
surprise attack. So he finished putting out the fire and decided to chase after his assailant. 
Unaware that the man he was search­ing for was already safe inside an apart­ment, this wet willy started scouring for someone fitting certain height and ethnic minority requirements. Spotting some­one he assumed was his target, our friend threw the kid against a car and let one rip across his face. (Oh yeah, did the Gipp mention that we happen to be dealing with a Bengal Bouts champion? And no, we ain't talking flyweight.) Now Gipplings, we all know what happens when we as­sume -we accidentally punch a stranger who had absolutely nothing to do with dumping water on our head. So this poor bystander was forced to go a few rounds with Rocky at no fault ofhis own, besides the malicious act ofhaving the same skin color and being the same height as another Notre Dame student. Part of the Gipp feels that he should pontificate and give some sort of"don't punch strangers" ad­vice, but honestly, Uncle Gipp finds this to be quite humorous. 
That's all for now, Gipplings. Unfor­tunately, the Gipp will have to sign offuntil next August. It's been a pleasure so far satisfying your lustful eyes, and the Gipp sincerely looks forward to his own return to glory next fall. Have fun with whatever life brings you this summer, and please don't leave your copy of duLac behind. . 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH \ 
10 APRIL 2003 

-, ,· . . . . : , -----' ' 

University Resources :
• 


for Gay, Lesbian, ~ · Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDE~T NEEDS 
., 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs • 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
..• 

Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students · and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd..edu 
• . For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/--scglsn/ 
• 


www.ndcopyshop.com www.ndprintservices.com 
2locations on campus for_A 


ND C9PY SttOp•_•--·.· 
LaFortune-Student.•Ce11t~{{; L­



{574}__ 63t-Cqg)';r 
.FAX: (574)6~1SF_5::
>· -_· --: ._: __ :::_.;·.·. :_;<<'.·-:;.:/:::··>>'-~-(;< 
\ -. . . ----------­
-
' ·--~-·---~_,,,,,_____ 
~ 


Scholastic's sports editor looks back on four years ofscandals and triumphs

IThe Rant 

by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king of sports at gmeskill@nd.edu 
Alot can happen infour years, and often a lot does. When I took over this department at Scholastic four years ago, there was no weekly rant. Now that one exists, let me use my final words as a member of this magazine's staff to reflect on how Notre Dame athletics have evolved since the end of last century, when I first took over as sports editor. The Irish football team was coming offa 9-3 season under promising third-year head coach Bob Davie. "Notre Dame football is back," students assured me as I arrived on campus. No one was talking about firing the new coach, andwhywould they? Aftera 7-6 inaugural sea­son, Davie had opened his second campaign with a 9-1 start before a devastating injwy to quarterback Jarious Jackson ended any hopes of a top-10 finish. From that point on, Davie would go 19-16 and become the first Notre Dame football coach ever to be fired. But even before Davie was fired, the football program suffered another em­barrassment. In December of 1999, the NCAA sanctioned Notre Dame football for inappropriate gifts bestowed on players by booster Kimberly Dunbar, marking the first time that the NCAA had disciplined a Notre Dame athletic program. While the program's punishment was light, involving the loss ofa couple ofscholarships, it sent shock waves through the collegiate football community. Fortunately, things got better. After years ofobscurity and apathy, the Irish basketball team finally started competing under new head coach Matt Doherty, who led the Irish to the NIT final against Wake Forest in 2000. Even after the Irish lost that game and failed to hang a new banner in the Joyce Center, students were hopeful that it was the start ofbigger things. But, that summer, Doherty bolted for his alma mater, North Carolina. Although many Notre Dame students were crushed that the enigmatic leader abandoned the program, their disappointment was brief. New coach Mike Brey has led Notre Dame to three consecutive NCAA tournament berths, including its first appearance in the Sweet 16 since 1987. Meanwhile, Doherty has been dismissed from his dream job, after posting three seasons in which his vaunted 

The last four years have been rocky for Notre Dame athletics, but one thing is certain: Good things lie 
ahead. 
Tar Heels failed to advance further than the Irish he had left behind. 
Andifthegainsmadebythemen'sbasketball program can be called significant, then those by . the women's program were nothing less than extraordinary. Newcomers in a conference that has been dominated by Connecticut for as long as the Huskies have participated in Big · East play, the Notre Dame women shook the perennial champs in 2001 when they erased a double-digit deficit in the NCAA semifinal to knock them out of the tournament. The Irish completedtheconquestwithastirringone-point victory over Purdue in the final. For those of us who are seniors, it was our first taste of a national championship at this school. 
The next fall, we experienced one of the rarestsituations in football -apostponement. Football, a game rarely canceled for inclem­ent weather or anything else, was postponed throughout the entire country. And so was virtually everything else. The financial district of Manhattan was ravaged by two hijacked commercial airliners, which were used as projectiles to pummel the New York skyline. The country stopped. And for the first time in any of our lifetimes, so, too, did all athletic competition. 

Ironically, that September 15 postponement instead turned out to be the curtain call for Davie. The Irish narrowly pulled out a victory in West Lafayette on December 1, but, by the 


next morning, athletic director Kevin White revealed that Davie had been fired. 
The ensuing scramble brought George O'Leary to Notre Dame the next weekend. By the end ofthe week, he was exposed as a phony, and the school sent White on the road again, hoping to fill an office that two men had already held that month. The answer came from Stanford; and even the freshmen know how the story goes from there. 
The last four years have been rocky for Notre Dame athletics, but one thing is certain: Good things lie ahead. Those ofyou who are underclassmen, don't be afraid to tell the in­coming freshmen next year that ''Notre Dame football is back."Just don't expect it to hap~ pen next year. But then again, who knows? 
No matter what unfolds, someone else will be covering it for this publication. Goodbye, and thanks for reading. . 
Jimbo's Jabber 
The man himself brings you... 


20 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
FOOTBALL: Head Coach Tyrone Will­ingham led the Notre Dame football team in spring practice last Monday. Junior Rashon Powers-Neal has been moved from tailback to fullback. The spring session concludes with the intra-squad Blue-Gold game on April 26. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE: 15th-ranked Notre Dame defeated 19th-ranked Con-' necticut, 15-7 on Saturday. Senior Danielle Shearer scored one goal and four assists while freshman Crysti Foote and junior Meredith Simon each tallied three goals to lead the Irish. _ 

MEN'S LACROSSE: 12th-ranked Notre Dame lost to 19th-ranked Ohio State, 11-5 on. Sunday, making the Irish 5-4 on the season. It was the first time since 1999 that the Irish lost to the Buckeyes. Junior Dan Berger scored twice while freshman Patrick Walsh 
\ 10 APRIL 2003 
vs. 
Ana Morales is a member of both the indoor 
and outdoor women's track,teams as well 


Our Calls
as the cross-country team. While primarily a 

middle-distance runner, Morales also was part Women's Lacrosse
-I 
of the cross-country team that placed third at 

OPPONENT: DUKE 
the NCAA championships this past fall. Growing 

WHERE: DURHAM, N.C. 

up in San Mateo, California, Morales attended 
WHEN: FRIDAY, APRIL 11,
Burlingame High S_chool where she was a four-year letter winner an_d led her team to four 4:00 PM consecutive league championships. 
The Irish have fought hard against some of the nations's best teams, but have not yet found ; awinning rhythm. Carrying the success of What is your favorite event to run? >their victory over Connecticutt, the Irish start a winning streak, downing Duke 14-9.
Definitely the 1,500-meter outdoors; it's just a little bit short of a mile. Indoors 

GERARDMESKILL

I like to run the 1;000 and the mile. I have run a.lot of 800s indoors, but my 
SPORTS EDITOR

favorite is the 1,000. I also like to run the 4 x 800 relay. 
~ Do you iike running indoor or outdoor.track better? 
• Outdoor; it's what I have always n,m. I'm fro~ California so I have never had an 1~ indoor season until I got here. • , .". , , i . , · 
After knocking, off Connecticut, Notre Dame

l \J What do you feel is your singl~ greai~sfacco~plishment on or off the track 
....~.,..~ .. ,,.,, ~ ) is poised to make some more noise. Senior , inyour time here at Notre Dame? <. · · 
All-American candidate Jen White has another I think the thing I will remember most when!. graduate is the NCAA strong game in goal, helping lead the 15th­Championships for cross-country this past f~if I was part of the team that ranked Irish to an upset win over third-ranked came in third and that is the highest finish in the history ofNotre Dame for any Duke, 9-8. women's cross-country team. That's definitely my most memorable moment. JIMMYATKINSON Asidefrom· relays; most people see running as an individual sport. In what SPORTS EDITOR ways do you rely on your team.mates during an individual race? 
We rely on each other a lot. Every day at practice we have training partners. We 
push each others' weak spots. When I am having abad day, running with my 
The Irish face a very tough opponent on 
teammates helps tum that around. In the meets, as much as we're teammates, 
Friday in Durham, but they are up for the we are competitors as well, and I think we are always pushing each other. It is 
>challenge. The Irish offense has its way with a very individual sport but it all does come together as a team in training and in the Duke defense, and leaves North Carolina the actual ~acing. with a 16-9 victory. 
What made you want to start running? MIKEISELIN 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

We used to have to nm cross country every Friday in sixth grade and my P.E. teacher saw that I was beating all the boys. He told me I should try track so I went out the next fall in seventh grade; I loved it and have been running ever 
OUR CALLS RECORDS
since. 



JIMMYATKINSON: 6-3
-Mike Iselin 
> 


GERARDMESKILL: 6-3 MIKEISELIN: 0-1 

scored once and assisted thrice. 
WOMEN'S GOLF: On Sunday, the Irish finished seventh in the Indiana Invitational in Bloomington. Freshman Katie Brophy was Notre Dame's top finisher, with a three­round 11-over par score of233, 14th overall in the 72-player field. Junior Shannon By­rne finished with a final round score of 76 to move her into 27th overall with a 20-over par score of 242. 

MEN'S GOLF: The Irish finished 14th at the Border Olympics in Laredo, Texas on Saturday. Freshman Eric Deutsch had the best three-round score for Notre Dame, finishing with a three-over par score 219, tying for 28th overall. Three freshmen, Scott Gustafson, Tommy Balderston, and Mark Baldwin, each shot two-under 70 in the final round. 
ROWING: The Notre Dame rowing team, ranked 21st in the nation, defeated 15th-ranked Iowa in four of five events on Saturday. The Irish second varsity eight, led by junior coxswain Kathryn Long and sophomore stroke seat Shannon Mohan, won both pieces ofits race against the Hawk­eyes. This weekend, the squad heads to East Lansing to take on Michigan State. 

-Jimmy Atkinson 
10 APRIL 2003 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 21 

~ . -. " -. ---------------­
---~-~ -----' -·' -----~ ~­



MJKEISEUN
0n June 10, 2002, the Notre Dame baseball team beat Florida State University by a score of 3-1 to earn a trip to the College World Series in Omaha, Neb. Eight days later, the team suffered its second loss in Omaha to Stanford, ending one of their best seasons in recent memory. Prior to last year, Notre Dame's last appearance in the College World Series was in 1957. Although long regarded as an elite baseball program, Notre Dame had yet to prove itself as a powerhouse. Ever since that fateful day last June, the Irish baseball players have been doing everything they can to return to Omaha this summer. Senior captain and pitcher J.P. Gagne put it best: "Our goal is to sail this ship back to the World Se­ries and this time win the whole thing." And, as ofApril 7, the Irish are well on their way to that goal, with 20 wins and six losses almost midway through the season. 
22 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
The entire team shares this goal. SoJ?homore outfielder/catcher Brent Weiss, injured and likely sidelined for the season, says, "We, as players, want to improve every year, and we want to win a national championship." Up and down the lineup there is only one thing on the minds ofthe Notre Dame baseball players, and that is leaving the College World Series this year with rings on their fingers. To do this, the Irish will have to play their best baseball at the end of the season. Earning a trip to. the College World Series is superceded by a strong performance in the Big East regular season, the Big East Championship, the Regional Tournament, and finally the Super Regional Tournament. 
The trip back to Omaha will not be an easy one. The Big East is a highly underrated conference and Notre Dame will have to face tough opponents such as Virginia Tech, Rutgers, and Univer­sity of Connecticut. Along with the chal­lenging conference play is the fact that many teams will be hungry for a win over the Irish, thanks to Notre Dame's impressive run for the championship last year. Teams will be throwing their best pitchers against Notre Dame every night and they will have their most consistent players in the lineup. 

However, this is nothing new for the Notre Dame baseball team. As junior captain and second baseman Steve Sollman put it, "Teams have always been 'out to get Notre Dame.' Notre Dame has always been one of the elite programs in the country, and the trip to Omaha last year simply got us a little more notoriety." 
Although the Irish exceeded all ex­pectations last xear, the players feel that their goals are the same as any other year: to finish the year number one. "From the outside, some people wrote us off as a one~year wonder because of all of the seniors we lost, but we are out to prove them wrong, and so far we have. silenced a lot ofthose critics," says 
\ 10 APRIL 2003 



long, as the younger MUCH-DESERVED "PARAISO" The Irish soundly thrashed their opponent Valparaiso in their April 2 match-up. The Irish 
players  got  ; more  are on an 11-game winning streak.  
comfortable, and by April 8, the Irish  have the ability to control a game,. and there  have to hit three or four home runs a game  
were on an 11-game winning streak.  is no doubt they are going to be one ofthe  to finish the night with a W.  
Senior leadership has proven all the  keys to our success." Recently, an explosive  Although Fighting Irish baseball firm­ 
more important on this novice team.  offense helped out as well, putting up 84  ly established its place as a revered team  
Senior co-captain and rightfielder Kris  runs in the past four outings as ofApril 7.  with last year's trip to the College World  
Billmaier said that the upperclassmen  Weiss says that the Irish also "do the  Series, the players and the coaches want  
"really have to offer a lot of leadership  small things really well; hit and run, bunt,  to be the premier program. Riding an  
and show the young guys the right way  and take extra bases. We are a very unself­ 11-game win streak midway through the  
to do things and how to approach com­ ish team. Some teams have to deal with  season, the team has taken huge steps  
ing to the ballpark in the right frame of  big egos, but every player on this team  towards achieving its goal. The freshmen  
mind everyday." Fortunately for the Irish,  is dedicated to doing whatever it takes to  and sophomores who knew they were  
the freshmen evidently have caught on  win." Other players attribute success to  going to have some big shoes to fill  
quickly and have be.en on track to making  great speed on the base paths, consistent  have stepped up to the level of juniors  
a great season.  hard work in practice, and a solid core of  and seniors. The backbone of the team,  
The pitching staff and the defense have  senior leadership. Although the team has  its pitching staff, has lived up to all its  
been spectacular for the Irish so far this  its weaknesses ­ inexperience and a lack  expectations. And as  they continue to  
season. Sollman feels that "the talent and  of power-hitters, they have been able to  swing the bat well too, the Irish seem  
depth ofour pitching staff is as good as any  take advantage of what they do well and  to have what it takes to succeed in the  
pitching staff in the-country. Our pitchers  put the ball in play, proving that you don't  postseason.  0  
10 APRIL 2003  SCH0LASTICSPORTS  23  

\ -. -. .::_ -~ -------­
--~---,,.._.._.;~---------­








Fr. Victor Crasta, C.S.C. Gunned down by assassins in 2000. His dying words were "Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing." 

Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. 
Author of books on The Our Father, Hail Mary and Creed 

Fr. Tom Streit, C.S.C. 
Biology professor working to wipe out tropical diseases in Haiti 

Fr. Mike Baxter, C.S.C. Teaches "A Faith to Die For" 



Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. Moreau Seminarians 




Greg Haake, C.S.C.  Stephen Koclh, C.S.C.  
ND'99  ND'99  
ND Rectors  

Discover Your Vocation at Notre Dame 



www.nd. edul,_vocation 
1·· 
I /
j 
J 




A Delicious Spanish Milkshake 
The t~agic family life of a student abroad in Europe 
KAJIEHUGHES 
like to consider myself a bit more laid­
back than the average Notre Dame 
student -I try to never use the word "productive," take classes which require a lot of work, or hang around kids who have very hard classes. I chose to study in Spain because it is full oflaid-back people. There are three hours of mandatory "do-nothing" time in the middle of every day, different words for getting up and getting up early, and if at any time you walk like you're al­ready five minutes late to class in DeBartolo, people look at you like you're crazy. Even during their protests· against the war in Iraq, Spaniards often bring their kids, drink beer and play-music. 
I thought I would assimilate first to Spain and then to all ofwestern Europe like no other. Iwould go all Carmen Sandiego and dazzle the entire continent with my knowledge of their flags, populations, capital cities and GDPs. I would be stylishly and fabulously together: an efficient packer, bargain hunter and pick­pocket-avoider; a flamenco-dancing, sangria­drinking chica. I would master all the essential phrases in Italian, French, Dutch, German and Gaelic to impress European guys. I would send witty postcar9s which would show how much cooler I am than you because ofmy extensive travels. 
I would get stamps in my passport. I would become so good at Spanish that I'd actually be able to use a verbItense other than the present, and the Spanishwouldneed to invent anewverb tense to accommodatemy grammaticalmastery. I wouldneverweartennis shoes orreadmaps on the comer. I would be budgeted and scheduled, stay out late and catch the early train. 
When I came home, I would be asked to lead discussions on where I had gone and what I had done because everyone would really want to know. People would think, "Man, I suuuuure wish I were her." 
"So, what is life like in America?" I imag­ined my Spanish host family asking as we sat around the fire and drank cafe con leche, their eyes fixed on me as I told story after story about my culture. They would be sup­portive ofmy Carmen Sandiego dreams, in­terested in the nuances between American and European cultures that I was grappling with. They would show me the sights, and we would eat home-cooked meals together. We would laugh and love life as wine flowed and adorable children told me how educa­tional and fun I was to have in their home. 

They would laugh amongst themselves and tell me interesting and quirky stories 
p 

about their family. My new hermano would play soccer, and my hermana and I would watch movies together. 
Snap back to reality. On my holiday in Spain, I was more like a National Lampoon's European Vacation character than a super­model, supergenius and travel-savvy chica. I lived with a family that ate cold hot dogs and rice with ketchup, and when my hermanito wouldn't eat all of his dinner, my Spanish mom blended his meat and beans into a gray milkshake and forced him to drink it. Our conversations went more like this: 
Spanish mom: "Cah-tie, are you eating here today?" Me: "No." 
Me: "I wen~ on a trip this weekend, do you want to hear about it?" Spanish mom: "Are you eating here today?" 
Me: "Could you tell me anything about your life? Anything at all?" Spanish mom: "Are you eating here today?" 
Me: "I'm going to take a shower now." 
Spanish mom: ''No, you showered yes­terday." You get the idea. Their interactions went more like this: My Spanish mom would say, "JUAN! 
EAT! EATNOW! JUAN! EAT! EAT NOW OR YOU'LL HAVE TO DRINK IT!" And Juan would not actually respond but instead would half cry and half watch The Simpsons. My Spanish sister would yell really loudly at her mom, and I would not understand any­thing. My Spanish dad and older brother were never there. ­
My supermodel Eurodreams were dashed when I developed a strange eye infection that caused foreign guys to stare and tell me I looked like the devil. It didn't help that walk­ing around all day made my feet stink. My illusions of ditching my senior year to become a double-decker bus tour guide through Spain were dampened when we rolled into a tiny little town thinking we would see the "real" Spain, only to find out that we were stuck in the middle ofnowhere without a place to stay. The only time I was in the "cool place to be," my friend's purse got taken by someone who knew that people who didn't know what they were doing would be there. 
Ms. Sandiego certainly would be apalled and disappointed at my behavior abroad. She can stylishly wreak havoc in Reykjavik in her signature red trench coat, and I can't even catch the bus. . 

Submit an BOO-word essay for Week In Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 10 APRIL 2003 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 25 
I,I' 
I:
,, 
,,.I 
0 GO LONG. Tossin9 a ftisbee on the guacl is a popular watm-weathel'" activih -before. Htet ancl even clutin9 classtime. 
I E'TANIA SEVERE 
he sun is shining bright, classes are 
winding down and summer is steadily T
approaching. Students are migrating outdoors. With the warm weather quickly 

making its way across the Midwest, anticipa­tion for the freedom ofa long-awaited sum­mer season is growing. Most students return home for·the much-deserved break, leaving those staying on campus for work, summer 
school, athletics, etc. to find new ways to entertain themselves during the summer 
months. Luckily for them, fun can be found within driving-distance from campus, from 
downtown South Bend to Milwaukee. 

Just minutes from campus, the South Bend Silver Hawks are gearing up for another ex­
citing baseball season at Coveleski Regional Stadium located downtown. Says Brian Foy, 
ajuniorhistory major and South Bend local: 

"Soon we'll be going to the Silver Hawks games. On Monday there are dollar tickets, 
hot dogs and beer." Foy and his friends also enjoy going to Chicago Cubs games at 
Wrigley Field. 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
For those looking to escape the summer heat, there are several beaches just a few miles away. "[Going to the beach] is one of my favorite things to do," says Foy. "Espe­cially the Dunes; there are huge sand dunes you can run up and down. There are also clay mines. We usually have clay fights, I know it sounds juvenile, but it's fun." 
If going to the beach doesn't sound ap­pealing, the South Bend Summer in the City Festival has events that tailor to everyone, according to Special Event Supervisor and Festival Coordinator Teresa McClure. "There are four stages with a wide variety of entertainment. We have rock and coun­try music, a car show and great food." The event takes place froin June 13-15 in the Howard Park-East Race Waterway area. · 
Those whose quest for summer fun can't be contained in Michiana need not worry. Entertainment can be found in all directions. Ifit's late June or. early July arid you find yourself headed west on 1-80/90, stop by the Windy City for the 23rd annual Taste of Chicago. According to The Chicago 

-Tribune's Metromix, the newspaper's sec­tion dedicated to entertainment, "You 'II find everything from hot dogs to h_aute cuisine at this annuaJ food fest." The 10-day festival features disheidrom 70-plus restaurants, live music, cooking demonstrations, a wine gar­den and family activities. And once you're full, you can take a walk a few blocks down the street to satiate your shopping desires, since Grant Park, home ofthe Taste ofChi­cago, is located just a short distance from Michigan Avenue. 
Ifyou're headed down south in mid-July, swing by Indianapolis for a little urban­culture. The city is host to the 32nd annual Black Expo. Gail Thompson, a senior politi­cal science major who attended this event during the summer of2002 says: "I had my. 21st birthday that weekend; it was a better place to turn 21 -as opposed to South Bend -because during 1:1:i~ summer there aren't that many people on campus. Because Indianapolis is one of Indiana's bigger cit­ies it was nice to get a change of.scenery." Accoi:ding to the Indianapolis Star, "The 
\ 10 APRIL 2003 


Indiana Black Expo Inc. was founded in 1970 by biack civil and religious leaders. The summer celebration is an exposition showcasing black achievements in culture, art, history and economics." Thompson added that at the Black Expo, you get to live among the stars. "My hotel room was right next door to Indianapolis Colts star Edgerrin James, and I even shared the elevator with Musiq Soulchild." This event is a great op­portunity to explore a big city and savor the urban culture. 
But tasting big-city life, cheering for the Silver Hawks and relaxing lakeside at nearby beaches may still leave you with some bor­ing downtime. Don't worry though: Cedar Point Amusement Park is just a few hours east of the ND campus. If you're craving an adrenaline rush, this is the place for you. It boasts 68 rides including 16 roller coast­ers. According to Foy, "Cedar Point is one of the best amusement parks in the world. The big ride right now is the Millennium Force, it was said to be one of the tallest in the world. It has a huge conglomeration of roller coasters." 
Aside from consistently being voted the · among the best amusement parks in the 
world, Cedar Point will introduce its new 
coaster this May. Top Thrill Dragster will 
launch riders from zero to 120 miles per 
hour in under four seconds, and riders will 
climb over a 420-foot tall hill -the tallest 
roller coaster in the world. Cedar Point offers 
great deals on single~day, two-day and sea­
son passes tq both the amusement park and 
Soak City, the adjacent water park, making it possible for you to enjoy great rides and cool off at the same time. 

Back west in Milwaukee, summer is the time to rock and roll with Summerfest. The annual Summerfest event aims to please. Says sophomore Drew Baumgartner, a Milwaukee native: "It's an 11-day music festival with about eight small stages and one large stage for the performers who have a lot of record sales. Some of the past perfonners were Tom Petty, the Eagles, Lauryn Hill and Ben Harper. rt's a great atmosphere: you can hear music wherever you are." According to a recent press re­lease, two bands recently were added to the Summerfest 2003 lineup: Foo Fighters and Santana. As they join acts like "Weird Al" Yankovic, Kenny Chesney, Wilco, Fleetwood Mac and Crystal Method, this event offers an eclectic array of musical performances which promises to satisfy a wide variety of music lovers. 
Even for those who can't afford to traverse the Midwest, the beautiful Michiana sum­mer will not disappoint. Students are already enjoying the warm weather with traditional outdoor activities like Frisbee, baseball, football, rollerblading and simply walking around campus. 
Ifyou're still going to be in South Bend during the upcoming summer months it looks like there will be plenty to keep you busy. So, get your planners outand get ready for the food, music, culture and good times that await you in the lazy, hazy, crazy days of summer. 0 






~i1tia11r~ 
·,----·: . 
--.....~ 
c, .·· :.-7: .~--'.-,
~:~--~.,,.:_·~ 

ft SURF'S UP As en jo9able as Northern lncliana winters can be, -fun in the sun surel9 will brighten stuclents• summer cla9s. 
1When: June 13 -15 Where: the Howard Park-East Race Waterway area Why: It's local and offers awide variety of entertainment for everyone. Cost: Free, except for highlighted events For more information: 
http:l/168.143.158.244/ festival.site.html 
The Taste of Chicago 
When: June 27 -July 6 Where: Grant Park Why: Great music and awide range of food. Cost: Varies For more information: 
http:/!chicago. citysearch. com/ profile/11397 487 

The Black Expo 
When: July 14 -20 Where: Indianapolis Why: Experience urban culture Cost: Varies For more information: 
www.ibeonline.com 

Summeriest 
When: June 26 -July 6 Where: Downtown Milwaukee, Wisconson Why: Music from every genre Cost: one-day $11 
three-day $30 For more information: 
www.summerfest.com 

Silver Hawks Baseball Games 
When: April 11 -September 1 Where: Coveleski Regional Stadium Why: America's pastime in Notre Dame's backyard Cost: $7 box seats 
$5 reserved seats For more information: 
www.silverhawks.com 


Cedar Point 
When: May -October (park hours vary) Where: Sandusky, OH Why: Coasters and other sweet rides Cost: Regular admission $43.95 For more information: 


10 APRIL 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 
' ' ' ,.. ,.. ~ \ . ' . ------·-----------~--------­
--~~--~----­
~~ ~ 




Slow-motion Success 
Everclear brings high energy cynicism to campus 


TRACVEVANS 
he rain pounded on the dome ofStepan
T
Center Friday evening, and drops of 
water seeped through the ceiling, fall­ing down into strategically placed buckets. One of the dreariest days of the semester welcomed Everclear to Notre Dame, and lead vocalist Art Alexakis returned the welcome. 
"I'm a smartass, and you know, I mean, I always have been," he told Scholastic after a brief, yet thundering, sound check. "A lot of people look at it as a negative view ... but it's like when you meet someone new, and people tend to play nice 'til they get comfortable, then you see the true colors ofthe person. That's not necessarily a bad thing." 
Last Friday's performance marked the first leg of Everclear's tour circuit promoting the release oftheir sixth album, Slow Motion Day­dream. The Marchdebutwasmetwith the most positive reception to date for the band. Since releasing their demo World ofNoise in 1993, Alexakis,joined by bassist Craig Montoya and drummer Greg Eklund, has struggled to define the band's unique sound as an alternative rock group characterized by the blended 'post­grunge punk-pop'genre. TheNorthwest-based group gained much of their notoriety through persistent touring and self-promotion until they fell into the arms ofCapital Records. 
Their first major-label album, Sparkle and Fade, established the group as viable airwave material with "Santa Monica," and they con­tinued their success with So Much For The Afterglow, which features billboard hits such as the highly autobiographical ''FatherofMine." While fans were originally drawn to the brazen lyrics and guitar riffs, Alexakis maintains that the evolution ofthe newest album demonstrates growth and endurance for the band. 
"Our sound has changed over time, but I think it's something that comes naturally," he remarks on the collection of songs on Slow Motion Daydream. "This is a return to our roots in some ways. The lyrics on this record are definitely socially aware, politically charged." 
ForEverclear, each song is part ofa thematic reflection on life, particularly those moments that challenge the will ofan individual. Alexa­kis'sown life experiences have shaped the tone as well as the lyrics ofthe band's songs. Draw­ing on negative experiences in his life -his childhood in a single-parent home in the California proj­ects, chug overdoses ofthose 
around him and his own life­
threatening overdose at the age of 22 -Alexakis has 
learned to express his emo­tionswithmusic as aconstant 
and comforting medium. 
"My perspectives and my view of myself [are] pretty strong ... it's a pretty real­istic point of view. I know how to struggle, I know how to fight, I know how to win, and I know how to put not winning on paper," he achnits. "I've learned a lot, and I thinkby learning, it has added stability and strength to the band." 
In their newest release, Everclear plays on the themes of dissatisfaction with life and yearning for an inexpressible and unat­tainable goal. While the sense of incompleteness lingers throughout the songs, there· remains the common thematic tie ofthe word •~beautiful," which is linked to songs dealing with both life and death. 
''It's not really conscious, but I think that beauty is something that all people aspire to," says Alexakis. "Not physical beauty or spiritual beauty, but some sort of symmetry to your life." 
Dressed in a loose black sweater and black pants, Alexakis enters the stage, his wild hair­style in sharp contrast to his solemn face. His head is bowed over his low-slung guitar as he paces the stage during the sound check. His intense concentration breaks as he casually calls to his manager to adjust the sound; the reverberating rhythms aren't yet to his liking. He then settles back to his place in the center of two guitarists. The lyric-driven music of social commentary is about to begin. 
"Everybody has their own idea and their own view of what that is," Alexakis remarks on the messages implicit in each ofEverclear's albums. "With eachrecord, I've looked at a dif-ferent time and been in a different stage. The first album, I was a poor guy with. a baby and welfare, living in acrappy apartment, and the second album, not much better, still ru:igry and tired." 


With major record label success, the op-· portunity ofspending an entire year on tour, and a sixth record to their name, Alexakis is more focused than ever on the bigger picture. While his own struggles may have consid­erably lessened, his understanding of the struggle that persists.throughout life is most apparent withSlow Motion Daydream. 
"This album's view of the American Dream is very cynical and very skeptical. I think all out songs have it; it's just a little harder to find," he says, marking the evolu­tion ofhis music and his perspective. "Now, on this album, !'don't really care about any­thing but making the music. Looking back in time, I think I'm more aware.'' . 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
\ 10 APRIL 2003 



A Winning Combination 
A slice of kosher cuisine in the shadow of the Dome 
BYANGREENE 
ention the word "Irish" in South
M
Bend, and a abundance of asso­
ciations springs to mind: shaimock, leprechaun, football, Catholic. The word "kosher" does not, however, appear high on this list, on the 
off chance that it appears at all. But I a new restaurant, Irish Kosher Deli, aims to make these two words as complementary as bread and but­ter. 
Scholastic re­cently paid the Deli a visit and quickly realized that, for anyone with a hearty ap­petite, it is sure to become one of the area's premier lunch spots. From the beef pastrami and roast beef to the smoked turkey and salami, the cold cuts are appe­tizing. The corned .... beef, prepared in-house, is without equal. Served on a choice ofbreads ranging ffom marble rye to kaiser rolls in addition to the more traditional white bread, sandwiches come complete with a decent selection of condiments. Scholastic suggests opting for bread over a roll; the kaiser wasn't very fresh. 
The best part of the deli-style fare, the backbone of the menu, is the sheer amount of meat the kitchen manages to fit into each order. Among five different sandwiches, the thinnest was the smoked turkey, weighing in at (roughly) a mere two and a half inches. Now that is a serious sandwich. 
One of the restaurant's signature deli of­ferings is the shwarma. Described by one employee as "an Israeli gyro," the shwarma is a large pita pocket packed with warm chicken, tomato, cucumber and onion, and is generously marinated in authentic spices and an Arabic sauce; Owner, manager, and head cook, Moshe Katz, predicts that the shwarma "will be the big sandwich among college students." 

The Deli also offers a number of soups and salads. Chicken and vegetable soups are generally available every day, as is a varying 
soup du j our. Their cream 
of mushroom soup was ~ slightly bland, but perfect 
ii: for sandwich-dipping. The salad selection is more unique. In addition to classic fare like cole slaw, the Deli features some interesting options, like baba ghannoush, an authentic eggplant salad. Another superb choice is the crisp, refreshing Is­raeli salad. Consisting of diced cucumber, tomato and onion mixed with Asian spices in a light, oily dressing and served cold, it is a perfect mid­day side dish. 
Although lunch is regarded as the Deli's specialty, a number of entrees and daily specials cater to those who prefer to eat later. After 4 p.m., customers can order 

from about a half-dozen choices, includ­ing the shwarma platter and half a Broaster Chicken. Each entree comes with a choice of roasted potatoes, french fries or rice. 
Other miscellaneous menu items include potato chips and spinach and potato bou­rekas, which are fried fillo dough appetiz­ers stuffed with spinach or potatoes and mushrooms. Beverages include soft drinks, seltzer, coffee, tea and Dr. Brown's Sodas. 
The Deli itself is fairly spartan. The unas­suming exterior matches the no-frills inte­rior, which consists of a large deli counter and a handful oftall tables with stool-height chairs. There is a small dining area with com­fortable booths, decent seating capacity and walls adorned with dozens offramed Notre Dame photos, which are focused almost ex­clusively on the football program. Custom­ers are given a number when they order and are notified by speaker when the meals are ready. During off-hours (generally between 3 and 5 p.m.), employees carry customers' meals to the table. Customers can also buy cold cuts by the pound, and there is a small kosher supermarket adjoining the Deli. 
The unexciting atmosphere is an unex­pected boon. The Deli is a quiet place to unwind and enjoy an excellent lunch. Katz hopes this reputation will attract students who like to mix study time with mealtime. In fact, he hopes to install a cordless internet access point, allowing students to hop online as they eat. 
Only about three weeks old, the Deli is run by Katz and his wife Susi. The Russian­born Katz grew up in Israel before moving to America. Upon moving to South Bend over five years ago, he says that there was a need for a local source of kosher foods. 
He had originally planned to simply open a small butcher shop and market for kosher goods, but eventually expanded his vision to include a restaurant and a deli. He chose to include "Irish" in the name of his restaurant both as an homage to his main sponsors, the Lerman family (who are supporters of Notre Dame and the 
College Football Hall of Fame), and as a hook to attract nearby students. 
Because the Deli is so new, there are still a number of kinks for Katz to work out. Hours of op­eration are still under debate, and he hopes to expand the menu and add a wait staff in the future. 
Despite minor drawbacks, the restaurant is al­
ready a popular haven for those who crave delistyle meals. And with sandwiches as good as those served up daily by Katz and his crew, the Irish Kosher Deli will be pleasing students and locals for a very long time. D 
Irish Kosher Deli 

Location 
1705 South Bend Avenue 

Prices 
• 
Sandwiches range from $5 to $8 

• 
Entrees under $13 




Hours 
Sun-Thurs. 11 am-9pm Fri. 11 am-3pm Sat. 9:30pm-12:30am 
"Bring your appetite; these ! 
sandwiches are packed ! i with meat. Service is still ! working out some kinks, but 
they should be settled down by the end of April." 

10 APRIL 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 







The Doctor Is Out 
l1ve got afever, and the only perscription ... is more cowbell. 
Well, chillins, that special time ofyear has come again. Lord knows I've had fun peppering you with what I assumed at the time to be humorous stories and one-liners, but the fact remains that the school year is coming to an end, and with it must end the run of a certain dashingly handsome Scholastic columnist. Preparing to take my place in the work force has given me plenty of opportunity to reflect on the current global political and economic climate, and I have to tell you that it's a damn scary world I'm entering into. I'm fairly sure we' re on terror alert Rouge or Magenta at this point, and if it's not bad enough that I have to worry about the chemical and biological weapons Saddam Hussein must obviously be hoarding, the World Health Organization has announced the spread of a fatal fonn could pick up on the nuances of the game inside of ten minutes. The squinning little viruses even have the decency not to become resistant to the ridiculous amount of antibodies with which they are being treated, and this helps both to keep the cards securely stacked in the player's favor and to teach children the valuable les­son that medicine fixes everything. I'm proud to say that I learned everything I know about the medical profession from Dr. Mario, which may go a long way towards explaining my poor scores on the MCAT and the rejection letter from Johns Hopkins that was flung through my window tied to a brick. 
But ruining my shot at post-graduation residency wasn't the only thing that Dr. Mario managed to take care ofoutside the tiny jar that is his operating room. He also succeeded 
of pneumonia capable· of wiping out 
in completely skewing my sense of bal­all life on the planet until only Gary ance in the universe by providing a video Sinise and a handful of others remain game in which my girlfriend can com­to stage a battle ofbiblical proportions pletely mop the floor with me. Don't get to decide the fate of the world. me wrong, I still show her who's boss in 
Frankly, I find it difficult to think of the occasional game of Marble Madness, much else with phrases like "poten­but this girl fits pills onto viruses with the tially fatal disease" floating about in sort of uncanny prescience previously everyday conversations. I'm so much. observed only in Anakin Skywalker and ofa hypochondriac that I've managed Miss Cleo. I'm still diagnosing the case over the course ofmy lifetime to con­while she's explaining to the family that vince myselflhave hepatitis B, bacte­they need to pay the bill up front because rial meningitis, hysterical pregnancy their HMO doesn't cover the actions of and SIDS. And while I admit that my mustachioed plumbers who think it's fun initial reaction of barricading myself to play God. Under her control, Dr. Mario in my room for a week and cracking can cure almost anything-except, ironi­
anyone who tried to come in over the head with a tire iron may have been a touch extrerne, I still stand by my decision to answer people asking why I won't shake their hand with, "Because you carry disease." About a week ago, how­ever, a relative calm regarding this SARS thing came over me, and I've hardly thought about it since. I know now that if the world situation ever comes down to anything drastic, I can tum to one physician with the power to cure everything that ails you. That physician's name is Dr. Mario. 
Since the early '90s, Dr. Mario has been a shining beacon of professionalism, simultaneously eradicating viruses and reinforc­ing Italian stereotypes on hundreds ofTV screens throughout the world. I'm assuming most are familiar with the good doctor's disease-fighting strategy of dumping blue, red and yellow pills on the corresponding viruses, and if not, newcomers to the scene 
cally, my inability to make him perform at an acceptable level. Oh, and lupus. Ifanyone ever comes up with a cure for that, I'll eat my hat. Please note that lupus is not especially funny in and of itself, but as diseases go, it's up there. More info a\Tailable at at www.lupus.org. •. 
And thus my reign of terror as a Scholastic columnist comes to an end. I realize that ifthis were The Observer, I could stick around for another three decades or so writing column after column ofmy personal political views, but I think that a year's worth ofme is all most people can take without wishing them­selves bodily harm. I know I haven't necessarily developed a fan base to speak of, but I did overhear someone in the dining hall refer to my column as "that funny section that's not the Gipper," and I think that's the most I could hope for. Thanks for reading; and get off my property. D 

30 SCH0LASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 
10 APRIL 2003
\ 



Sp1ing has officially sprung, and with this spnmg springness, many a lovely couple wander lakeside, hand in hand, lip publicly in­tertwined with lip. Listed below are a few activities inspired by the superstitious blessing for a young bride (in case your spring "fling" goes te1Tibly awry). 
Something Old 

What: Donny Osmond. "This is the Moment" Tour 
When: Thursday, April 17 at 8 p.m. 
Where: Morris Performing Arts Center 
Ho'Y Much: Tickets range from $37 to $52 

Why: For nearly 38 years, audiences around the globe have "watched [Donny] develop from a cherubic little boy singing on TV with his older brothers" to a sub-standard talk show host, and then again to a performer "who always has the power to amaze." For an ultra-reasonable price, equal to that of a keg, you too can have the opportunity to be wildly entertained by this burned-out performer at less than his best. (Quotes courtesy of the Morris Performing Arts Center Web site.) 




Something Borrowed 
What: Christmas in April 
When: Saturday, April 12 at 7: 15 a.m. 
Where: Meet at Stepan Center for breakfast fol­lowed by dispersal by bus 
Why: Both Christ and Santa call for generosity of self. Christmas in April is the occasion for spreading Yuletide selflessness during the Easter season. In past years, over 1,000 students have lent a helping hand in this stellar service extravaganza. 

Something Blue · 
What: Blue Man Group 

When: Every evening at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Where: Briar Street Theatre in Chicago 
How Much: Tickets are $53 and available at Ticketmaster.com 
Why: The blue men artistically and scientifically blend traditional theater with tubes, air poles and miscellaneous "instruments" to create a stunning multi-sensory experience. 

Something New 
What: Conference on the New Testament in honor of E.P. Sanders, "New Views ofFirst-Century Jewish and Christian Self-Definition" 
When: Opening dinner: Friday, April 10 at 5:30 p.m., Closing ses­sion: Sunday, April 13 at 8:30 a.m. 
Where: McKenna Hall 
Why: First, E.P. Sanders is a very famous Biblical scholar from Duke University. Second, this is a grand opportunity to satiate your desire to learn about tum-of-the-millennium Judaism and Christianity. Third, it may be required for your theology class. 



10 APRIL 2003 SCH0LASTICCALENDAR 31 

:l 
. 

by Sarah Childress 






Re-introduction 
T:is is how it begins today. A late-morning yawn and a quick sandal-shuffle 
to the dining hall for Cheerios. Head down, I don't see the slice of dome behind the Basilica steeple or O'Shaughnessy's unreliable clock. It is too cold, too early. Work could be done today, but it won't be. Instead, lounging and conversation prevail as Saturday morning slips comfortably into afternoon. 
We have been doing this for four years. In a few weeks, 
we won't any more. This is how it began then. Too nervous for breakfast, I stuffed myself between 
some plastic shelves, my comforter and a few bulging suitcases in the backseat ofthe car. As we sped down the expressway, I closed my tearing eyes against the thought that this time, I was really leaving. 
We turned down the tree-lined avenue; the Dome actu­ally, really gleamed in the sunlight Excited hall leaders told us that tonight we, in our matching shirts, might even meet our future husband. I hoped I wasn't the only one raising an eyebrow. I remembered that one hot July moment back home: We lay gazing through the leaves at the star-spot­
_________..___ ted sky, letting the air dry our skinny-dipped skin. One of
__;;___-=---­us had sighed, said: I wonder From the classroom window, what's going to happen to us 
the budding trees look like lace all now. 
• . . I was still looking for an against the white sky. I take notes answ.er when I stumbled 
absent-mindedly and wonder. intoatinySouthDiningHall what will happen to all of us now. b~sement o~ce crammed 
with odd artifacts and even None of us knows, none of us. quirkier people. I listened 
Sarah Childress is the former Editor in Chief ofScholastic. She is an English major with a concentration in journalism. She next plans to finally venture out ofthe Midwest into the great beyond, and will intern at Newsweek this summer. 
32 SCHOI.ASTICFINAL WORD 
to them because they were 

gods who knew everything. To catch up, I stopped sleeping, too. We looked for con­troversy and tasted strawberries in a bottle under the hazy, after-school sky. 
Asummerofwriting anything now, halfmy life inboxes, ready to leave again. 
The sky in Oklahoma sits like an empty bowl upside down upon the land. But in Indiana, the com stretches too tall to see even the horizon. I learned that as we wound our way through the damp com maze, weary monsters stretching out to scare us. Cider warmed us afterward. Too much made me so sorry. 
We lived four to a room this time. Hold the laughter: I still listen to Lionel Richie. But I cannot sing Christmas songs standing on my chair like she could. There was always dancing there, beneath paper flowers, and a new television for soaps. A late night lying in the dark without power-and the Leviathan. They were roommates who held me up always, even when my alarm clock bleeped, unchecked, for hours. 
December I'm in love, walking on ice-cold air. Late nights typing, talking, Cheez-It-ing. Midnight discussions stretched to four a.m. confessions to six a.m. surrender, head on the pillow in the quiet donn. Frowning secmity monitor thinks I am out sinning every time. 
I was expanding. 
Last summer in my olive-gray town, I said. Still writing, now with rolled-up sleeves, about murder and mayhem. And I saw NewYork City. As we swerved arom1d the cor­ner I leaned over, lookedup to see two proud silver towers. I cannot forget the way they stood so tall. 
I blinked my eyes to see the brown Spanish countryside whizzing by. Over steaming bowls ofpaella I looked be­wildered at Tomas as he pointed to those televised silver pillars (now wounded) and said, "That is your country, no?" It was my country, turned upside down. 
We escaped to the gardens of Granada but did not eat the tiny, crunchy fish. When the sun went down, it fell to tapas, vino tinto and the heady smoke ofdiscos. We took the six home at seven, let the sun rise on its own. 
Coming back meant coming home, now. I was handed the pink hmmner and in my turn discussed, in antiquity, what exactly one should do with a drm1ken sailor. We played bocce as tl1e sun rose, and ground out a magazine, somehow. They were all so eager to be stars, but they already were. 
A hot smmner in Boston taught me how to fight. I won an eviction. Celebrated my 21st soaked in puddle-water from a taxicab, then dried out at a biker bar with gin and tonic. We learned late at night from the veterans how to be real joU1Tialists, really. They tore apart our stories and they drove us home. 
One. More.Year. 
An awkward introduction four years late turned me into Marzipan. Orange-chair confessions over the rim of her glasses and the best jambalaya I've ever eaten. The most food I've ever eaten: dining-hall dinners in seven courses. Four took a long night's drive across the country beyond the water gap, fighting sleep and sometimes each other. Back to that city again. Back home. 
War, for betterorforworse.Agoodbye: The river we lost him to keeps running, fast and strong. So do we. 
Now we glance across smoky rooms, over trays with greasy pizza, down tl1e sidewalk at each other. Think: The last time we'll ever-. We won't ever-again. Not after this. 
From tl1e classroom window, tl1e budding trees look like lace against the white sj<y. I take notes absentmindedly and wonder what will happen to all ofus now. None ofus knows, none ofus. 
That is how it begins this time. . 
\ 
1 0 APRIL 2003 
.-~,_,t~­
.,,. ~ 
.. ·~ ...__.~~~· 
~; .~~~: ?,·, -~.: 


}'t~:: .:· :.,,. 
: .. 


MUVlt:S 
I 

the recruit .
i 


side ofthe rainbow* 
0-12 
g for ·columbine 6 





