uts

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!

fixer

PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.	"
x w MORRIS
TRY A PACK... TODAY
LETTERS
A GOOD IDEA
r Dear Editor:
Everyone appreciates everything that the Dining Halls and Scholastic have done to correct the food situation. To aid in conserving food and avoiding waste, why doesn’t one of the managers walk around the dining hall after the » meal is over and see how much of the food is left on the plates? Judging from • the quantity of food left they should know what not to serve and substitute something else.
Bob Sincavich
Morrissey Hall
, HE TOPPED ALL DELEGATES
Dear Editor:
I have just been informed that I have been elected as one of Notre Dame’s NSA delegates for 1948-49. My name * was placed on the election ballot without my knowledge or consent, and though I - am deeply appreciative of this honor I regret that I must submit my resignation. I will be unable to devote the necessary time to carry out the duties of such office.
I should like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank all those friends who \ were kind enough to vote for me. To them I am grateful, but sorry that I will be unable to carry out the responsibilities they have elected me to.
Had I been approached before the election this could have been averted.
Robert R. Uhl
Alumni Hall
THANKS FROM THE CLOVERS
Dear Editor:
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Senior Class of 1949 for placing its confidence and trust in the Four Leaf Clover Party by voting us into office in the recent class elections. I can assure you that we will do our utmost throughout the next year to carry out our aims as previously published.
Notwithstanding the many rumors to the contrary, the total cost of conducting the campaign was approximately 840. This was made possible by the cooperation received from personal friends on campus and certain townspeople who aided us with our publicity.
The spirit with which the campaigns were conducted and the attitudes of all of the other candidates after the election has been nothing but the very best.
Pat Costello
Lyons Hall
It’s Adlers
FOR
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
3
CAMPUS CLUBS
NEW JERSEY ELECTION. DANCE
Pete Keman was elected president of the New Jersey Club at a recent meeting. Jack Quinn gained enough votes foi the vice-presidency, while Bill Ron-ney and John St. Germaine were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively. The final meeting of this semester was held last Monday night. Arrangements were made for the summer dance, which will be held at Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook. A joint meeting between the campus club and the New Jersey Alumni was also discussed.
HUFFMAN PITTSBURGH PREXY
The Pittsburgh Club also elected their officers for next year at their recent meeting. Ernie Huffman was elected to the president’s chair, Al Lesko was re-elected as vice-prexy, Ted O’Hearn was elected secretary, and Pete Friday won the treasurer’s slot. Bill Dickson was placed in the publicity spot.
Items discussed at the meeting included final plans for the club’s annual summer dance. It will be held this year in the Hotel William Penn on June 12. Announcement was also made of the annual banquet which null be held at the Ramble Inn next week.
A.	L Ch. E. HOLDS BANQUET
Over 40 members attended the annual A. I. Ch. E. banquet at the Disabled American Veterans on May 13. In the afterdinner speech, Mr. R. E. Rich, head of the department of chemical engineering, outlined the plans for the coming semesters and the improvements being made in the department of chemical engineering. He then gave congratulations and words of advice to the graduating seniors.
At a recent meeting of the organization, John Hailer, a junior, was elected to be chairman for the coming year. Other officers were George Resnik, vice-chairman, Robert Newall, secretary treasurer, and William Prokop and John Murphy, members at large.
CHI CLUB ELECTS KAUFMAN
The rambunctious Chicago Club elected its 1948-49 officers at its last meeting. After a heated campaign, Frank Kaufman was successful in capturing the presidency. Tom Gallagher was elected vice-president, while Jack Connor and Hobe Taylor snagged the treasurer and secretarial posts. Announcement was made at the meeting of the prospective summer dance which will be held some time in June.
FIRST "LAWYER" EDITOR ADDRESSED BANQUET
Clarence J. Ruddy, center, first editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, shakes hands with Bill Ball, present editor, while Dean Emeritus Kcnop, extreme left, and Dean Manion, extreme right, look on Ruddy was featured speaker at the recent Law Club banquet.
ND SONS HOLD FIRST MEETING
The Generation Club, the newest campus organization, was formed recently for all students whose father or grandfather attended Notre Dame. The purpose of the newly formed group is to develop closer cooperation, good fellowship and comradeship among the members of the club.
George Witteried was elected president for the forthcoming year. George
—is the easiest of all! Don’t tote that bag and lift that luggage all the way home. Use the College Way—RAILWAY EXPRESS! We’ll pick up all the heavy stuff at your college dorm and deliver it to your home. Charges include pick-up and delivery in all cities and principal towns, and valuation coverage up to $50.00 or only 50^ per pound over one hundred pounds.
TRAVEL KIGHT BY TRAVELING LIGHT
(Oh, yes—you can send your things home "charges collect”) CALL YOUR RAILWAY EXPRESS OFFICE
Patterson copped the vice-presidency with Ed McCarthy slated as secretary and Eric Bey de Castro as treasurer. The sergeant-at-arms post was assigned to Ray Miller. The group of directors for next year include Joe Harmon, Hal Pla-mandon, Tom Sheehan, Lou Keiffer, Leo Vogel, Bob Sanford, Dick Feldpausch, Jim Vogel, Bill Farabaugh, Tom Bech-man, Bill Kennedy, Walt Clements, Tom Botzum and Jim Carroll.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus -	FOUNDED 1867
niiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiaiitiiiiiiKKiiiitiiiiiitiiiiaiiiiiKitifiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifintiiiiittiiiiitiitiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiKi
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR. Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features PETER BROWN  Sports SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK ------------------------ Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL  Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian
JOHN CLARK ----------------------------------------- Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL  Circulation
B.	T. KYSER  Advertising JOHN S. BRENNAN  Faculty Moderator

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.

Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
GRADUATION—900 Seniors Make Way Toward World 9
POLL—Students in Favor of More Council Power._ 10
ELECTION—Spring Election Is Big Success ______ 22
FEATURES
PICTURE—Outstanding Photo of Sacred Heart Church.... 11
LEADERS—Scholastic Picks Its Men of the Year _ 12
GIRLS—California College Rivals Hollywood ____ 20
SPORTS
FOOTBALL—Old Timers Stun Varsity in Spring Game.... 26
TENNIS—Wildcat Battle Is Only Test of Power __ 28
TRACK—Cindermen End Dismal Season at State Meet.... 32
COVER
Bob Satti depicts the big rush homeward that gets under way after exams. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
MAY 22
GRANADA, The Adventtires of Robin Hood, with Errol Flynn and Olivia DeHaviland. This technicolor re-release poses a good question for students of ethics — was Bobin Hood more of a charity worker than a thief? Companion feature, Old Spanish Trail. This Roy Rogers western, like all such shoot-’em-up filmfare, poses still another good question— does such misrepresentation of the old west and the bawling, lusty, avaricious, vulgar frontier days in namby-pamby box-office-pandering epics about guitars and cleanshaven cowfops constitute immorality in the movies? Kick that one around.
MAY 23
ST. PATRICK’S SCHOOL HALL, The Catholic Theatre Guild presents the Broadway hit, Junior Miss. Curtain time 8:30 p.m. Production on the boards the nights of the 25th, 26th, 27th as well.
MAY 26
WASHINGTON HALL, Chamber orchestra concert, under direction of Mr. Charles Biondo, featuring soloists Edward Ciprus, violinist, and Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., cellist. Concert begins at 8 p.m.
MAY 27
FEAST OF CORPUS CHRISTI.
FINAL EXAMINATIONS BEGIN.
COLFAX, Fort Apache, with Henry Fonda, John Wayne, Victor McLaglen, Ward Bond, Shirley Temple, her husband, 10,000 overpaid extras in uniform, 100,000 head of dustraising bawling highly-talented RKO Herefords and several tons of whinnying horseflesh, all under the capable direction of John Ford. It can’t be as good as it sounds.
STATE, Wild Irish Rose, with Dennis Morgan and a bucketful of singable tunes.
MAY 28
PALACE, The Bride Goes Wild. Dear me! Companion feature, Speed to Spare. Apparently about Mel Patton.
GRANADA, Night Song, with Dana Andrews and Merle Oberon.
MAY 30 DECORATION DAY. No classes. GRANADA, If You Knew Susie, with Eddie Cantor and Joan Davis. Supposed to be the life of Cantor. When do they make the life of Mickey Rooney? Will Charley Grapewin’s biography be next? Stay tuned.
JUNE 4
PALACE, Treasure of Sierra Madre, with Walter Huston, Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt. John Huston directs this story of three birds chasing a mountain of gold—reviewers have already called it one of the pictures of the year. It does have one signal attribute for sure—tough-guy Bogart doesn’t wipe up the floor with thugs three times his size and then walk off •with Baby; this time Huston shows him up.
STATE, Prince of Thieves. As far as we’ve been able to ascertain, this is not about Gen. Benny Myers. Companion feature, Hoppy’s Holiday. He deserves it. So does Horse-
JUNE 5
CLASS DAY exercises for graduating seniors.
JUNE 6
COMMENCEMENT MASS- and baccalaureate sermon. Conferring of degrees in Washington Hall.
JUNE 7
DANCING IN THE STREETS.
5
TOP OF THE YEAR
Summer is icumen in, Lhude sing cuccu!
Groiveth sed, and bloiveth med, And springth the wude nu—
Sing cuccu!
—Anonymous
COLD WAR WAS THE BACKDROP
With the year fast ebbing away, it might be a good idea to kick around a few developments of this, the college year 1947-48, the yeai- of partial peace.
The collegiate drama this year was played against the backdrop of cold war. The Russians were moving over the earth like the giant amoeba in one of Arch Oblers’ radio fantasies. Truman was pleading for a draft, Congress was pitching for a big air force, and the fear of a very hot war was rapidly mounting. Something had to be done with the Reds, but nobody knew quite what.
Notre Darners had an answer. Back to something approaching normal, they were working, praying, complaining, and playing with much of the enthusiasm of pre-war days. The praying was their answer to Marx and his people. In the long run it’s only long, knee-bruising prayer that can accomplish anything toward erasing phony ideologies from people’s minds. Other methods help, but prayer has to come first.
Meanwhile, in the midst of the international tension, Notre Dame men had plenty of comic and serio-comic happenings to distract them.
The football team romped to another national championship w i t h Frank Leahy predicting disaster every step of the way. In the middle of the season Frank had to throw away his sodden crying towel and switch to a blanket. . .. Army came to town for the first and last time, and the Leahy-Blaik Young Men’s Marching Society put on its famous Long Walk. But after the game everybody fell on everybody else’s neck, sobbed heavily about the good old days, and swore that “we’ll have to get together again sometime.” - The Kaydets, it appeared, do not wear side-arms, haughtily swirl their capes, and snarl at the common herd, as we used to think they
6
did. Most of ’em seemed like pretty good guys.
Michigan kicked up quite a fuss at the end of the season about its claim to the national championship. In the Rose Bowl the Wolves made Southern Cal the goat in their drive to snatch the A.P. title away from the Irish, but nobody was overly aroused by the pretenders. Michigan was still in the bush leagues as long as ND remained off its schedule. . . . Two weeks after the Rose Bowl game the publicity department here received seven letters from a town in Michigan requesting pictures of the 1947 Irish varsity. ... A while later some Wolverine rooters smeared blue paint all over the library steps. Like their claim, it didn’t stick.
The newspapers, local and in Chicago, were always good for a few chuckles. The South Bend Trib’s Jim Costin continued to boost the Blue Sox, a substitute for a baseball team. Last week such conduct got Jim into a nasty scrape with our own Joseph Volney Wilcox, the journalistic skeet-shooter who upset a good many people this year. At last report Costin was still able to stay on his feet and keep his long gray beard out of the typewriter keys.
The Sun underwent a grafting with the tabloid Times and came out in pretty much of a mess. Financial troubles had crippled Marshall Field’s infant before it reached the age of reason. . . . The Tribune opened up a ferocious attack on the “me-too” candidates, declaimed loudly for Taft and red-blooded free enterprise, and continued to give about the best sports coverage and the most editorialized news coverage in Chicago. Orphan Annie, meanwhile, was fleeing Axel again and hopping into the same swamp she was in ten years ago. (Last Sunday Annie expressed a great fondness for alleys, something we have long suspected, eh Sandy?). . . . And of course all the Chi papers are still hard at it in their endurance contest with the printers, with vari-type providing a crummy-looking substitute for linotype.
Movies were usually an excellent topic for conversation. Balaban and Katz still held South Bend in the palm of their corporate hand, and as a result, the town
and the University were getting some of the most revolting trash Hollywood ever produced. Such citizens as Bulldog Drummond and Philo Vance and large crowds of cowboys paraded across- the screens, sending audiences out to look for convenient manholes to crawl into. The average of good pictures shown in Washington Hall was nearly as low as the White Sox’ batting averages. . . . The Sox, by the way, are still draped embarrassingly around Chicago’s ankles.
The catastrophic New Look spread to every female above the age of five. . . . The first mock political convention in eight years took the campus by storm, with such red-hot issues as free silver in the spotlight. . . . WND firmly established itself after a series of heartbreaking setbacks. . . . The Student Council’s leaders, despite sniping from everybody in the University, strained mightily to win some measure of self-government for the student. The fruits of their effort may become apparent next year. . . . The Student Relief Carnival resulted in a thumping contribution from Notre Dame. . . . And the heated class election campaign last week gave some evidence that the Notre Dame spirit is about to come rolling back, like a wave from out of the deep.
On the darker side were an emaciated home basketball schedule, departmentals, the sophomore room foul-up, a suspicion of mutton in the Dining Hall, and Homicide Highway. Oh yeah, it rained practically all the time.
Such was ’47-48 at Notre Dame. File it and forget it.
BOTTOM OF THE YEAR
To one and all a long, pleasant, and thoroughly enjoyable summer. May ever day bring a sunbeam and every night a memory.
Now if that lousy crook would only bring back my red lumberjack coat.....
WANT TO EARN $9,000 A YEAR?
As one of the largest paper distributors in Chicago we are offering college men "most likely to succeed" an excellent opportunity. These men will be trained in fop-flight selling as they may eventually step into the shoes of successful retiring salesmen, who earn $8,000 to $9,000. $200 monthly while in training. If you are looking to a bright career in selling, write us today. Give full information on your qualifications, background and training. Enclose your college record and photograph.
SCHWARZ PAPER COMPANY Attention: Alfred C. Gall
1430 S. Canal Street Chicago, Illinois
Hereta
Topping the List
"Saxo-Boogie"—Sam Donahue's latest recording for Capitol
SAM DONAHUE’S slick-style waxing of this jazz-boogie instrumental is fast hitting the top in popularity.
Sam is a Camel fan from ’way back. As he puts it, “Of all the brands I’ve tried, Camels suit me best. They’re mild and cool smoking — and Camel’s full rich flavor always hits the spot!”
Try Camels on your “T-Zone” - T for Taste, T for Throat. See for yourself why, with Sam Donahue and millions of other smokers, Camels are the “choice of experience.

/tod here's . another k g/wt T RECORD!
H. J. Itcynohls Tobiicco Co. Wlnston-Snleiii, N, C



Ute	.
Hats Off to Student Leaders!
Last fall the Scholastic keynoted its first issue of the publication year by announcing as its objective the development of genuine student leadership, responsibility and initiative. At that time it was felt that the Scholastic could best serve a growing and expanding Notre Dame not only by mirroring the campus news events in chronicle fashion, but by becoming a medium for intelligent student expression and a spur to initiative wherever it appeared lagging. Happily the response was gratifying—seldom before have student initiated activities been so fired with vi°or and determination.
On all sides capable and enthusiastic leaders grasped the reins of various student functions and directed them to the pinnacle of success. Such events as the Relief Drive, Campus Carnival, Army Week End, Mock Political Convention and the Bengal Bouts stand as monuments to student drive, and perseverance.
Of lesser stature, but throbbing just the same with the ardor of youth, were the organization of new campus clubs, the spirited class elections, the zealous expansion of the campus radio station, and the renewed interest in student theatrical and musical productions. In all fields of participation student leadership was manifestly vital.
What stands these student activities in even greater light of praise is the fact that most of these functions were accomplished under the most trying conditions, and success realized only after the most gruelling uphill struggle. The student body in general, settled in apathy, needs more than a gentle prodding to make it rise up and join the parade. Once goaded into action, however, the student body becomes an impassioned multitude, alert and eager. On the other hand, the University administration, experienced in the disasters that can be and have been wrought by mismanaged student affairs, often looked upon student activities with exceeding wariness and calculation. Once they were satisfied that student functions were under able direction they usually gave the high sign and the show got on the road. The fight to overcome lethargy and disentangle red tape often became enervating.
Nevertheless student leaders have proved during the past year that they are ready, willing and able to assume positions of command and responsibility. No better preparation for leadership in the outside world can be made than that young men wrap the reins of responsibility and authority around their wrists while still in college where sage counsel can serve as an enlightening guide.
In its campaign to spark student initiative and to encourage action and activities that promote student welfare and the concomitant call for leadership that rises out of student functions the Scholastic has been vehement. From its stand on such matters The Scholastic takes not one step backward.
The Catholic student leader of today is the Catholic lay leader of tomorrow. Therefore everything possible should be done to develop leadership among the student 8
masses. Therefore all intelligent activities that demand and test student leadership should be fostered. Student-spearheaded organizations and activities like the National Federation of Catholic College Students, the National Student Association, college publications like Concord, campus activities like class electioneering, club-sponsored educational programs, speakers and so forth, should be aided and stimulated. Not the least, student government, a sure-fire proving ground for leadership and responsibility, should be happily welcomed as a part of Notre Dame.
Add to these encouragements a student voice in healthful extra-curricular activities. As future lay-leaders Notre Dame men must have the best in enlightening activities that promote a keen sense of culture appreciation and the full development of personality. In this regard the so-called minor sports should be lifted out of the romping pen and nurtured out of the same spoon as the more highly-publicized forms of athletics. We need a swimming and a wrestling team here, and interhall athletics deserve much more encouragement—that is the only way to make the bulk of the Notre Dame men feel that they are participating in, and are therefore a part of, the Notre Dame sports scene. In addition a student voice in the selection of concert and lecture programs would enhance the appreciation of such presentations and guarantee an even greater response. What’s more, student opinion should be consulted on the acquisition of motion pictures for campus showing. At present the Washington Hall fare is pitifully inadequate both as entertainment and inspiration, unless the loud laughs each successive coming-attraction announcement provokes is reason enough for the whole set-up.
Notre Dame men are capable of taking their turn at the wheel. They proved it this past school year in hundreds of campus activities and in many student organizations. They did it in a lot of little services, thankless jobs. They did it in spite of lure of downtown South Bend, the inertia of the masses, and the siren call of the sack. It would have been so easy just to attend class and then hit the sack! But they stayed on, participated in activities and promoted organizations. Notre Dame students made political democracy work, and they’ll continue to do so.
Somehow or other the fighting philosophy taught by Coach Leahy out on Cartier was snatched up and put to work by leaders among the student body. If they keep it up, here and in the work-a-day world that’s hollering for .guidance and leadership, then they’ll be real Catholic lay-leaders. •
“Spring to your man, and through him,” Coach Leahy bawls to charging Irish linemen. “Keep your head high and your feet moving. Keep driving!”
That makes for champions on the football field. Apply it to the field of politics, business, scholarship—any place. It makes for leadership. It’s the spirit of Notre Dame at work.
: The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
* VOL. 89, NO. 27
MAY 21. 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
900 Seniors to Join Ranks of Graduates
Nearly 900 cap-and-gown arrayed seniors and graduate students are scheduled to complete their ND careers Sunday, June 6, when the University will conduct its 103rd Commencement. Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, will preside as chairman of the ceremonies.
Final preparations for the big event will begin Saturday at 9:30 a. m., when the candidates for degrees move in procession from the Main Building to Sacred Heart Church for their final visit there, and thence to the Drill Hall for Class Day exercises.
Norbert Joseph Geier will open the Class Day program with the class oration. After this, the graduating members of the Notre Dame NROTC will receive their commissions from Captain A. L. Danis, commanding officer of the unit.
Medals and prizes for contests during 1947-48, as well as awards for achievement during the entire academic careers of the graduates will then be presented by Father Cavanaugh. The valedictory, to be delivered by John Daniel Harrington, will bring Saturday’s exercises to a close.
The Solemn Pontifical Baccalaureate Mass, to be celebrated by the Most Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, will take place in the Drill Hall at 9:00 a. m. Sunday. The Most Reverend Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon, to be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag.
Due to the large size of this year’s class, the conferring of degrees will take place in two sections Sunday afternoon. At 1:30 p. m., 414 students of the Graduate School, and the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science and Law will receive the coveted scrolls, while 461 Engineering and Commerce graduates will be presented with their degrees at 3:30 p. m. Paul G. Hoffman, administrative director of the European Recovery Plan, will delivei' the commencement address.
FURNITURE STORAGE
The Student Council has announced that arrangements have been made for storing students' furniture during the summer vacation. Representatives will call at the rooms.
Men of the Year
On pages 12 through 16 of this its final issue. SCHOLASTIC presents Men of the Year, a short personality sketch of those students, who in the opinion of the editors, did the most to further student leadership, responsibility, and initiative during the past school year.
If through accident any outstanding personage was overlooked, it is deeply regretted by the editors. They attempted to single out the top men in the leading activities on the campus. It was necessary to bypass many who have contributed to activities, and the editors sincerely hope that they have succeeded in choosing only those who have contributed in more than one way to student leadership.
It might be noted that student publications and athletics were not considered. The former field includes the men who did the choosing, and it would be unfair for them to delve into their own midst and heap praise upon themselves or one of their associates. Athletics was shunned since leading participants yearly swim in publicity for jobs well done. Men of the Year is meant to herald the unsung, tireless workers, whose paths have been rocky and whose praises have been mute.
FAMILIAR FACES
Ralph Thorson, left, and Roy O'Neil, right, student musical veterans go over the script of "It Ain’t Hay'' with Director Jim Beymer.
'If Ain't Hay' Certainly Ain't; It's Terrific
Ed Cashman has discovered musical gold again and has been generously dispensing it to enthusiastic Notre Dame students this past week in Washington Hall through the medium of the new student musical, “It Ain’t Hay.”
Strictly a cornfed affair, “It Ain’t Hay” is being given a lusty and, at times professional presentation by a big, eager cast. Everyone concerned with the show has worked hard at making it go, but once again it’s Cashman and his songs that make it worth while seeing and hearing.
The story is an old one. There’s “gold in them thar hills” that isn’t supposed to be there, and there’s a secret map which finally gets into the right hands at the convenient moment to spoil what could have been the most sensational thing ever seen in Washington Hall — a triple hanging.
As a story it moves quickly, if not too smoothly, to its inevitable climax and there are moments of inspiration in its presentation. (Witness the flashback scene in the Last Chance.) The cast is above par for ND shows with Bob Ruetz, Ralph Thorson and Terese Lazara particularly outstanding.
Thorson steals the show once again, a happy habit of his which lifts every W-H production above its real potential. His “I’m a Bad, Bad Man” is a priceless thing and the biggest gold nugget in the whole performance.
Bob Ruetz lets his good, powerful voice out once again and moves around the stage with a certain familiarity that ■ makes him stand out. He does fine justice to Cashman’s fine song, “Lilly Mae.” * Terese Lazara, a high school girl from South Bend, brings to the show a wonderfully mature voice which she puts no halters on and a stage presence which is refreshing. Her “I Should Have Told Mother” is something to remember. She bears a striking resemblance to Carol Bruce both in looks and voice. Joanne Lunsford is charming as the leading female but seems afraid to really use her voice.
Highlights of the show included the (Continued on Page 33)
9
Poll Shows Students Almost Unanimously Favor More Power for Student Council
The Day of Days for Scholastic pollers arrived last week. For the first time in the short history of the Scholastic student opinion poll those students interviewed were interested in the question and emphatic in their answers. The famine had ended at the eleventh hour.
The question popped this week was: "Should Notre Dame have student government and what are your suggestions?"
Almost all who were asked agreed that it should, agreed that the student council was the major instrument in student government and had little hope for any such thing as a strong student government here.
Here are some typical answers:
"Th? student government now doesn’t have enough freedom. They should be given more say in things going on around school. I'm not familiar with the Student Council constitution but most of their efforts have been blocked1' (David Mosier, 226 Howard). . . . “We need a solid organization here at ND. Any student government should first get the backing of the University, then seek the support of the students. Students should have more authority in deciding things.’’ (Joe Geisei, 100 Morrissey) . . .
"The present system of the StudentCouncil is all right. There is however a definite lack of cooperation between students and the administration. This could be improved by giving more responsibility to the students.” (Jack Elliot, 216 Morrissey) . . . “Students need a little more say in things around here. The executives of the University should give more rein to the students.” (Fred Hickey, 302 Lyons) . . . “Student government at Notre Dame should be afforded the necessary power that would make it a true sludent ruling body and not just the sham it is now, minus authority.” (Ward McCabe, 217 Breen - Phillips) . . .
“I don't think there should be a student government because I don’t believe the necessary authority would be given the organization to make it effective” (Bill Degnan, 337 Breen-Phillips) . . . “I think there should be a real student government given the force to act with authority on matters pertaining to the
LAST SCHOLASTIC
With this issue. SCHOLASTIC concludes its publication schedule for the year. The final issue of the JUGGLER will be distributed before the close of the semester.
students as a whole.” (Bill Hogan, 224 Breen-Phillips) . . . “We definitely should have student government with more power given to the students. The school authorities should give more attention to the requests made by the students, then we will be given cooperation on both sides.” (Charles Radice, Zahm) . . .
“We do not expect impossible things but the Student Council must be more than a name. More should be done.’’ (Dick Kloecker, Zahm) . . . “The present organization is all right but doesn’t have enough authority. It needs more voice to suggest what the students want.” (Jim Doyle, 217 Zahm).
. . . “Although the school must have a certain amount of control, I believe the students should have more of a voice in student activities. The Student Council is a good system but must have power to act.” (Phil Record, Zahm) . . .
“Student government at ND should be abolished for the reason that the government as it exists here is not indicative of its name. Why have pseudo-government? Instead let the Blue Circle continue activities and have class officers submit all proposals to the administration. We don't want student government as it functions now.” (Frank Whelan, 415 St. Edward's) . . .
“Student government sounds good to me. However it will not succeed at ND. Here it will be a voice relegated by the administration to 'crying in the wilderness,’ no listeners, no influence, just a tolerated tradition.” (Jerry Johnson, 231 Sorin) . . . “Let the student government be run freely, with the administration as a.seeing eye watching over it.” (Ray Fagen, 220 Cavanaugh) . ..
“Since it is evident that the present student government is inadequate, I believe that an attempt should be made by the student body to install a new student government.” (John K. McGuire, 121 Dillon) . . . “Student government is an excellent idea but if it were controlled by the administration or the faculty it would be an absolute failure.” (W. J. Robinson, 257 Badin) . . .
“The present student government is ineffective because it lacks the power to act according to the students’ wishes. We should be given the chance to try our hand at an effective student government here.” (R. J. Bushey, 336 Badin) . . . “Notre Dame has never been the place for a real student government.” (Bob Powell, 416 Badin).
Employment Service Extends Aid to Senior Job-Seekers
Those Notre Dame seniors graduating in June who don’t feel qualified to join the distinguished ranks of the unemployed and who haven’t yet made job contacts, may use the extensive and free facilities of the Indiana State Employment Service for that purpose.
The Service, located at 216 North Michigan Street in South Bend, is open from 8:30 to 4:30 daily, except Saturdays, when it closes at noon. In addition to local placement service, the bureau is able to develop job openings throughout the state and country.
Those thinking of a career in teaching can take advantage of the Service’s new teacher placement service which has recently been re-established.
Journalists Reap Cash For 'Journalist' Work
For outstanding work on the Journalist, Department of Journalism's experimental newspaper, six students of journalism were presented $20 awards last week by the South Bend Tribune.
Richard Donoghue, of Teaneck, N. J., was selected as the best managing editor; Myron Maul, of Monroe, Mich., for the outstanding feature story; John Maloney, of Jersey City, N. J., for outstanding news story; and John M. Wie-man of South Bend, as best copy editor. Ed Caso of New York City, and R. H. Boger of Mishawaka, Ind., won prizes for photographic direction.
The awards were presented by Robert R. Walton and Franklin Schurz, managing editor and treasurer, respectively, of the South Bend Tribune. Acting as judges were Ed Young, the Tribune’s telegraph editor, Ira Carpenter, news editor, and John Carroll, city editor.
Picture of the Week »»---------------------------*
This remarkable shot of Sacred Heart Church was taken by Paul B. Miller of South Bend (member of South Bend Camera Club, Photographic Society of America, Royal Photographic Society of England, and Professional Photographers Association). This picture has been accepted for exhibition at seven national and international Salons of Photography. Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., kneels at the altar.
13
Men of the Year
Keynoter From the South
The “Gentleman from South Carolina,” Leonard Boykin is a Notre Dame legal eagle who has hatched a great nest egg of successful student ventures during the past year. The resultant -chickens are doing nicely.
As president of the Student Council and Law Club ha has been a leading campus executive for the past two semesters. His administrations in both these offices have been energetic and progressive. He is a tireless worker and a consistent producer of results. The council he took over was one severely ruptured by the resignation of many of its top officers and its confidence badly shaken by student complaints about disorganization and laxity. Boykin quickly reestablished this body as a cohesive group capable of getting things done. Their record of accomplishments stands impressively high in council ledgers.
As Law Club prexy Boykin has watched over more smokers, dinners and - lectures than any other officer of the organization and represented the Law School as its delegate to New York’s National Legal Conference, last summer. Like most lawyers,' Boykin can’t resist politics and so it was that he was chosen keynote speaker..for the National Republican Convention1 in April. After his part in opening the< convention was over Boykin shed coat and tie, arid went back down to the floor to lead his South Carolina delegation in the futile fight for Harold Stassen.
LOU BURNS Between crumpets and demi-tasse
LEN BOYKIN
Despite disorganization and laxity
After a June 6 graduation with his law degree, Boykin will emigrate either north to Chicago and law practice or east to Yale and graduate school.
Foil-Flailing Fund-Promoter
Foil-flailing, cigar-smoking Lou Burns from Washington, D. C., has, in the course of a hustling career, been to many a diplomatic dinner. Between the crumpets and the demi-tasse he has learned enough to make a success of Notre Dame’s record smashing $35,000 foreign student’s relief drive and election to National Chairman of the relief committee of the NFCCS. He has done it all with a quick smile, quicker wit, and without the aid of a saber.
Lou Burns returned to the Notre Dame scene from four years of Army duty last January. After a rehabilitation semester' during which he mostly “sat,” Burns was ready to pick up a few activities he had had to leave off a few years previous. After six months he had reestablished himself as a student leader of great distinction and efficiency.
The post-war activities schedule mapped out by Burns was a strenuous one. It included a little bit of fencing, NSA and NFCCS activities and relief work. Lou rose to the top on all of them; became captain of the fencing team, ND NSA and NFACCS representative on the student council and on the road, and chairmaned the relief drive. That Lou got everything done and had enough breath left over to light and puff on his ever-present pipe is the Burns miracle.
Lou Burns has, at one time or another, been a Wrangler, a member of the Speakers Bureau, Glee Club and band. Those were all pre-war- stuff. The rehabilitated Eurns has done things cn a bigger scale.
King of Battles
Joe Dillon is a tall, quiet senior in the College of Law who lives a calm existence in Walsh Hall. He talks to you in a low, pleasant voice and he’s usually smiling. He’s a very friendly character. Yet last March, Joe Dillon was responsible for ten of the bloodiest, peace-shattering nights ever witnessed on the Notre Dame campus. As the K. C.’s man behind the machinery that put the sensational Bengal Bouts into action, Joe must be acclaimed as “King of Battles” at ND for 1947-48.
The Bouts were one of the biggest and most highly praised jobs of student promotion ever to turn the campus upsidedown. It took a lot of ingenuity, determination and help. Jee had plenty of all three.
Doing things in a big way is nothing new to Dillon. He is the past president of the once vivacious, now defunct Veteran’s Club at school, a job which at one time, promised to be the most powerful student one on campus. (Joe just grins when the club is mentioned now).
As with other campus leaders, Joe has a long list of activities behind him. At one semester or another he has been a member of the Commerce Forum, Detroit Club and a staffer on the Notre Dame Lawyer. .At the present time he holds down the vice-president’s post in the Law Club, is prevented from climbing higher among the lawyers and knights by an August graduation.
JOE DILLON With ingenuity and determination
12
BILL DUGGAN The task was thankless
Damnyankee From Batavia
It took a rank damnyankee from Batavia, New York, to bring the Mardi Gras and New Orleans to Notre Dame. Curly-haired Bill Duggan did it all in the Navy Drill Hall for three nights in February as he turned out the biggest and most colorful carnival Notre Dame has ever seen. That he also swelled the coffers of xthe Foreign Student’s Relief drive is an added recommendation to place him among ND’s fast-stepping student promoters.
Blue Circle Chairman Duggan has been in the thick of things around here since he entered Notre Dame in March, 1946. He has been a leading figure in YCS activities; vice-presidented the deceeased Vet’s Club and risen to the top ranks of the Blue Circle. A major in marketing in the Commerce School he graduates in January and is making plans for the post-college life with a St. Mary’s belle.
The Relief Carnival in the Drill Hall was probably the most outstanding of student promotions during the year and certainly attracted the most attention. Duggan had the unhappy and thankless task of organizing over a dozen committees and a host of campus clubs into a well-geared entertainment machine. The result was three hilarious nights of fun in the Drill Hall and a big eyeopener to student ability. Cash registers clinked a merry tune as Duggan smiled a merry smile and Lou Burns went into ecstacy.
As a Blue Circle man, Duggan has participated in all Circle activities and currently has an active hand in the publication of the Freshman orientation manual scheduled to make its appear
ance this fall. For a damnyankee from Batavia, Duggan has been quite a useful citizen in this little world called Notre Dame.
Salesman for ND
Red-haired, talkative Gerry Hekker has been selling soap behind a bookstore counter for many an afternoon. One snowy day last fall he went into a bigger market. He sold 300 grey-clad, firm jawed West Point cadets on the merits of the University of Notre Dame and its student body. While Frank Leahy and Co. were doing an equally “representative” job of selling the Army football team on the Fighting Irish, Gerry was going through a carefully planned routine of extending some ND hospitality to the soldiers from the Hudson.
For Blue Circle member Hekker this was one of the toughest and most successful assignments of a busy year. Partly as a result of his salesmanship, Army-ND relations may be resumed at an earlier date than first planned.
From the private cars on the St. Mary’s siding and back again on that same night, the Kadets had the redhead as their personal escort. He made certain they missed nothing. There was the campus to see, the Dining Hall chow to eat, the game to suffer through and St. Mary’s girls and a Victory Dance as consolation. The day was a complete victory for the Irish and Hekker.
Gerard Hekker, A.B., is from low Wood-Ridge, New Jersey, and high Walsh Hall. Outside of Blue Circle activities, he has been a member of YCS, a Scholastic reporter, Soph Cotillion Committeeman, is now business manager for student musical “It Ain’t Hay”
GERARD HEKKER
The job was 'representative'
ERNIE HUFFMAN
The attitude was changed
after a year’s experience in the same capacity with last year’s “Meet the Missus”; is working on the BC freshman orientation manual to come out next fall; is listed in the Students Who’s Who and still selling soap.
Pin-Up Boy
The doctor gave the reddish-blue baby a sharp smack. The tiny glob of humanity let out a wicked bawl, and so like everyone else, Ernie Huffman made his dubious debut. Bom 24 years ago in Pittsburgh, he has continued to assert his leadership ever since.
Toiling with the unpublicized secrecy and detachment of an NKVD agent, Ernie has molded and built the Kampus Keglers into an organization of lasting campus importance. Prior to last fall the only bowling league that had operated at Notre Dame was a makeshift cne in the engineering college; run with a nonchalant • come-when-you-like attitude. This year’s league was directed with high efficiency and received an overwhelming student response.
Plans were begun in September with actual bowling starting a month later. From that time until a fortnight ago, the ND keglers played havoc every Sunday afternoon with one of the local emporiums. The rousing success of the league, which had 24 teams enrolled with a grand total of 168 bowlers, can be best placed upon the shoulders of energetic Ernie Huffman.
Ernie does not claim to be a local Frank Varipapa or even in the same class as this year’s campus kegler king, : Charlie Derrico, but he has been known, nonetheless, to roll a mean game. His
13
FRANK LOMBARDO
Telegrams and interpreters
highest this year was 212. This high game score even goes up a few notches when the fact is considered that his previous alley experience had been entirely with duck pins.
Ernie, with his dark hair and jack-G’lantern grin, plans to make next year’s league twice as large. He also has hopes of “branching out into greater inter-collegiate fields, if we can get the University’s approval.” He is now a junior in the College of Commerce, and when asked about his hobby he not unexpectedly replied, “Bowling.” Last week he was elected to the presidency of the Pittsburgh Club for the new year. So like those hundreds of black, perforated balls that he so capably supervised, he is bound to keep rolling along.
Telegrams to Rome
Another of the unsung workers at Notre Dame this year has been Frank Lombardo. His fame rests upon the praiseworthy job that he has done in the revitalized Italian Club. He was instrumental in the reorganization of the club last September and served as vice-president and as one of its leading lights during the year.
Among the fine bits of work that the Italian-descent boys did was the service they paid to the visiting Papal Choir as guides and interpreters. The club also sent telegrams to people in Italy preceding the April elections and passed out copies of the form message to Italian residents of South Bend in order for them to do the same. After the momentous election they sent a letter of congratulations to Premier Alcide de
Gasperi. The club also sponsored one of the best looking and most popular booths at the Mardi Gras.
Behind the organization’s curtains has stood Frank Lombardo. Frank is 24 years old and lives in the Bronx, N. Y. He has a chunky build, with olive-colored skin and penetrating, dark Latin eyes. A Phy Ed senior, he has been a member of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus and coached the K. of C. basketball team that came in second this year in the state tournament. Frank has also assisted Mr. Napolitano with his boxing duties, and is planning to take a post-grad course here after graduation this June.
Frank speaks Italian fluently and professes a keen appetite for spaghetti and pizza-pie. His liking for these two dishes is so great that he influenced his older brother to move to South Bend and to open an Italian restaurant. It is the tiny eatery that recently opened on the bus route to town.
JACK MURPHY NSA and NFCCS
One of likeable Frank’s main endeavors while at Notre Dame has been the introduction of Italian lads into the homes of Italian South Benders. He said that he was “trying to acquaint ND students with people down town in order to offer them a home atmosphere.” His program has been partially successful with an even brighter future planned.
Junior Isn't Fazed
Big-boned, gregarious and inveterate pipe-smoking Jack Murphy has carved a niche for his name at Notre Dame that will be remembered for many years to come. During a time when the University’s spirit had reached an all-time ebb, Jack was one of the few who con
tinued to work unselfishly for the organizations in which he participated.
He served as president of the growing YCS movement during this past and his final year at ND. He was elected to represent the University at the NSA meeting in Madison, Wisconsin, last fall and most recently was sent as a representative to the NFCCS convention in Philadelphia.
Jack, or Murph, as his friends call him, was also in charge of the car awards for the highly successful Mardi Gras Carnival. It was a mammoth job, requiring many extra hours of work, but succeeded in raising the staggering sum of 525,000.
Hailing from Pelham, N. Y., Jack recently celebrated his 21st birthday. Because of the incongruity between his age and his appearance, his buddies are sometimes prone to paradoxically call him “Junior.” Like most everything else, the monicker fails to faze him.
Jack has a large, Gaelic face with wavey black hair that comes to a predominant widow’s peak. He talks slowly as if a speech prize was depending upon each word. He lists handball as his favorite relaxer and modestly confesses that he was one of the local representatives in this year’s American College Who’s Who.
The Harvard Law School has already accepted him for post-grad work but he is waiting for replies from other schools before making any definite decision. No matter’ where he ends up after graduation, so long as he takes with him that same do-or-die spirit that he has shown at Notre Dame, then the school and the profession which he later enters will be proud to claim among its ranks the name of Jack Murphy.
BOB REYNOLDS Greater and Better
14
For a Christian Environment
In a recent issue of America, Neil MacNeil states that, “The Catholic press of the United States needs more and greater and better publications of all sorts in all fields of journalism.” Notre Dame’s Bob Reynolds has been an active force in supplying this existing and shameful void with the growing and potentially powerful Concord.
Tall, dark and energetic Bob has been in on the ground f.oor of this college magazine since its conception a year ago June. The idea originated at a Young Christian Students’ meeting in South Bend. It was an offshoot from a YCS publication that was solely for members of that organization. At the meeting, a need was voiced for a magazine that would appeal not only to members but rather to all Catholic college students. Hence, the birth of Concord. Its circulation is now approximately 3500 monthly, but a larger audience is known to read it.
Bob, as editor, has steered the magazine through its growing pains and will also be at the helm next year. He has also been elected president of the Notre Dame YCS for next year. When asked to give a description of this movement, Bob said, “The YCS is basically an organization of people who are interested in applying Christian principles to whatever they are working in. The organization works under the belief that the best way to make people Christian is to make their environment such. That’s our problem.”
Rye, N. Y., is Bob’s home town, but he was born in Cincinnati 24 years ago. He is always impeccably dressed and groomed and his roommate claims that his only fault is his refusal to get up in
CHUCK RUSS Never beaten, never outspoken
the morning. Like an elephant, he never forgets anything—so long as he jots down a note first.
Bob, who is in turn, profound, humorous and then serious, is now a junior English major in the College of Arts and Letters. He is as yet undecided about his plans after college but they will include either a post-grad course or c-ke an attempt at magazine work.
High Priest for Rallies
The football pep rally to American colleges is very much a part of living. Here at Notre Dame it is a sacred ritual. High Priest for the past two years at such gatherings has been Charles “Chuck” Russ, Alumni Hall inmate and immigrant from Cleveland, Ohio. Chuck Russ is never beaten and never out-
BILL SLAVICK
Ever-expanding, whoop and holler
spoken. When you manage pep rallies you can’t afford to be either. As an enthusiastic member of the Blue Circle, Russ has probably done more than any student to cheer Notre Dame football teams on to National Championships. Besides engineering the ’46 and ’47 pep rallies, he was a cheerleader in 1944, played in the band in 1943, ’44 and ’46, planned the Army game reception in 1946 and the Southern Cal return this past season.
Russ is an English major who likes to talk and act and more often does both at the same time. His list of activities at Notre Dame is staggeringly long. At the present he is the promotion manager of Concord magazine, is doing Blue Circle work on the freshman orientation manual; is the Circle’s representative in the Student Council
RALPH THORSON
Major General; Lord Chancellor
and is holding down the office of ViceChairman.
To show he’s far from bigoted, last year Russ was head of a hospitality committee of the BC whose job it was to see that visiting athletic teams coming to ND were properly conducted on a sight-seeing toui- and made to feel as welcome as possible under the hostile circumstances. His only apparent failure was with the St. Louis basketball squad this year who still harbored a grudge when they hit the court.
He Brought Hilma
It was through the efforts of one William Slavick of Lyons Hall and Mem-phis, Tennessee, in the dead of Indiana’s last winter that Miss Hilma Seay, Southern Cotton Queen and defroster deluxe was imported north to Notre Dame. For that alone he deserves the Scholastic’s sacred garland. But Slavick has more claim to cheers than this one inspired move.
Because of his chairmanship of the gala and successful dance over which Miss Seay reigned Bill Slavick was pushed into the biggest club job on the ND campus — prexy of the ever-expanding whoop and holler Rebels. Under his regime the sound effects have upped in volume along with club accomplishments. It’s been a big year for the curly-haired English junior.
Thanks in a big part to Slavick in his official capacity, the South’s great liberal, Ellis Arnall was orating from a Washington Hall platform; thanks to Slavick the South was represented traditionally and solidly at the mock Republican Convention in the Drill Hall
15
last month; thanks to Slavick and a lot more like him the Rebels Club exists today as a coalition of all Southern State groups.
As a warm-up for this great burst of accomplishment, Bill Slavick spent apprenticeships with such campus organizations as the Scholastic, Radio Club, President of the Memphis club and as a recent consiributor to the Juggler. Every semester has been a busy one for Lyonite Slavick.
Thumpin' Thespian
To have been a Major General, Lord Chancellor, Dean of Men and go through a college biology course at the same time is a task of great and miraculous proportions. Here at Notre Dame only one man could have done it. He’s thin-thatched Ralph Thorson from Lyons’ distinguished basement and Chatfield, Minnesota. Thorson has been ND’s leading musical and stage personality for years and has won more mythical “Oscars” than perhaps any past trodder of Washington Hall’s squeaking boards.
How he has arranged his time so as to fit his stage performances, classes, Glee Club activities and until recently Student Council administration into twenty-four hours is something only Thorson will ever know. To the average student the amazing results of all his efforts is breath-taking enough.
At the present time Ralph has just completed an appearance in the latest student stage effort “It Ain’t Hay”; is president of the ever-moving, ever-singing Glee Club; carries a biology course towards its degree climax. Last, semester he was also burdened with the Student Council presidency which he re-
BOB UHL A pillar of stability
STAFF OF RADIO STATION WND* A rousing huzzah of praise
signed from in February, causing one of the stories of the year.
In the ND realm of politics Thorson is still fresh in the minds of mock convention goers who can’t forget his valiant fight in behalf of fellow-Minnesotan Harold Stassen. For the student biologist every day is labor day but somehow he manages to plow through a massive pile of books on everything from philosophy to music to maybe a little biology. Somehow Thorson has the happy faculty of being able to find that elusive extra minute and put it to great advantage.
An Iron Major
Standing like a pillar of stability in an organization wracked by confusion and incompetence, Bob Uhl has been one of the powerhouses this year in the Student Council. His mature and stable advice has helped to transform the tattered organization into a well-oiled and more highly respected governing group.
Dapper, graying and capable, Bob looks more like a member of the law faculty than a student. He comes from Decatur, Illinois, and is a freshman in the law school. His savoir-faire and tact are but two of his innumerable and laudable attributes.
At the Nebraska game last fall the enviable job fell his way of escorting one of Hollywood’s brightest, and blondest, starlets. His fame, however, rests more upon the work he has done in the
Student Council than on that afternoon of publicized bliss. His sane influence permeated the organization throughout the year and aided it in what observers term a complete transformation.
The Council had long been a group entirely lacking in respect and authority. After several executive shake-ups it has become, in the last few months, a noteworthy organization. Not completely successful as yet, but, nonetheless, a body that has at last gotten on the right road. Bob weathered these internal storms, pressing for reforms all the way. He sparked affairs in the unit and deserves a bow of gratitude as an honest, hard - working, behind - the -scenes man.
The Unvanquished
Laurels of praise for this year’s meritorious work would not be rightfully passed out if Station WND was to be overlooked. If any campus organization deserved a rousing huzzah of praise, then it is the Notre Dame radio station which came into its own during the past year.
Its first months of life were marked by continual skirmishes for survival. The struggling organization was initially set up in the basement of Washington Hall. After many weeks of arduous work the station was set to hit
* Seated: Gilling, Murphy, Cronan, Theis. Standing: O’Donnell, Dunlevy, Burkich, Hanifin, Venner, and Gerrity.
16
the air at 630 kilocycles. Then it received its walking papers. Last minute and frantic changes enabled WND tj make its debut from the radio booth at the Stadium. Then it received its walking papers again. The organization was about ready to give up the ghost when a last-minute reprieve saved it from complete oblivion. The University had come through with a substantial financial grant and gave it permission to roost in the balcony of the field house.
Station WND was at last in business and a going concern. Within but a few weeks, a portion of the leaky, decrepit balcony had been magically transformed into a modern, up-to-date radio studio. Not content to wait until the finishing touches had been applied, the station beamed its first program to the residence halls on Feb. 9. Since that time the station’s schedule has been increased, corrected and improved. By the time WND signed off permanently for this semester it had garnered a popularity that could be equalled by few campus organizations. Few hall radios were tuned to any other station but WND between the hours of 6 and 8 nightly. The first year of the station’s life had been a success.
It would be difficult, if not impossible, to single out any one person who had whipped this station into its high form. Those who unselfishly toiled had done so with a collective spirit of achievement that was perhaps one of the most noteworthy things about the entire organization.
There was Frank Cronin, for an example. Serving as the station’s top man, he gave many of his extra hours towards the building of WND. He not only worked during the preliminary stages but continued to labor almost nightly for the station.
A crop of fine, articulate and masculine-voiced announcers were heard on the station. George Murphy pleased many wtih his snappy and clean-cut voice. Then there was also Walt Garrity, Lou Duerinck, Bill Carey, Bill Pfaff, Frank Venner, George Engler and Felix Suarez. John Dunlevy served as assistant program director. On the production staff there were Charlie O’Donnell and Al Vurkich. The sports staff included Frank Venner, Bill Halligan and Frank Tripucka. Publicity was handled by Paul Theis while Larry Gil-ling acted as business manager. Many of the shows were written by their announcers. Tom Hanifin and Fallon Evans, however, supplemented their efforts.
The engineering crew was made up of John Jones, Ralph Dixon, Bob Nourie, George Beck and Bill O’Hearn.
GEORGE SULLIVAN Dome Award winners
'Dome1 Announces 1948 Senior Awards
Announcement was made today of the four graduating seniors who have received the 1948 Dome Awards. It is traditional for the editors of the Dome to select annually several students on the basis of their noteworthy service to the University and from viewpoint of their extra-curricular activities and their academic records.
This year’s recipients of the awards are Leonard C. Boykin, Francis J. Keenan, John F. McCormick and George A. Sullivan, Jr.
Boykin is from Camden, South Carolina, and will receive a J.D. degree, Magna Cum Laude. He has been president of the Law Club, president of the Student Council and a member of the Knights of Columbus. Frank Keenan is from Dover, New Hampshire. He will receive an A.B. at graduation. During his tenure at Notre Dame Frank was editor of the Scholastic, secretary of the Veteran’s Club, a member of the Knights of Columbus, interhall athletics, the Economic Round Table, and the University Theater. He was also included in the Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges and was chairman of the Mock Convention.
John McCormick hails from Lima, Ohio. He will receive a B.S., Cum Laude at graduation. He was' co-chairman of the junior prom, Deputy Grand Knight of the K. of C., secretary of the Student Council, secretary of the Commerce Forum, secretary of the Blue Circle, a member of the 1948 DOME staff and was included in the above mentioned Who’s Who.
George A. Sullivan, of East Walpole, Massachusetts, will get an A.B. degree, cum laude- He has been president of the senior class, president of the Monogram Club, president of the Boston Club, chairman of the junior prom, acting captain of the varsity football team, a member of the track team, the student relief committee, chairman of the senior ball, and was also included in the Who’s Who.
Law Dean Names Wilcox Editor of ‘ND Lawyer*
Dean Clarence Manion of the College of Law has announced the editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer for the scholastic year of 1948-49. They are Joseph V. Wilcox, of Michigan, editor; Thomas F. Broden, of Indiana, associate editor; John H. O’Hara, of Indiana, note editor; Robert D. Londergan, of Ohio, case editor; William V. Phelan, of Iowa, book review editor, and Robert E. Fitzpatrick, of Illinois, secretary.
17
Three ND Students Will Attend NCCJ Summer Conference
Three Notre Dame students will be sent to a summer conference of the National Conference of Christians and Jews from June 20 to 25 at Lake Forest College, Lake Forest, Illinois. The conference is intended to help students develop practical democratic procedures dealing with problems of human relations on their respective campuses. The students will be chosen by the Student Council and will come from those men returning to th? University next year.
In 1928 Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and other distinguished Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish laymen founded the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Today the Conference functions through 65 offices in as many communities throughout the country.
The purpose of the Conference is the promotion of amity, understanding and cooperation between peoples of all races, religions, and national origins by recognizing the differences that exist among people, with respect for and better understanding of such differences. National Brotherhood Week and Religious Book Week along with other programs of information and education about American
Brotherhood are sponsored by the Conference.
The South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews is the only such group in the state of Indiana at this time. Its director is Mr. Louis A. Rada-let, who teaches at Notre Dame. He is assisted by Mr. Daniel Gentile, a student at the University. Many prominent lay and religious men and women of
Depleted promises
DAN GENTILE AND PROFESSOR RADALET A move toward amity
South Bend and Mishawaka hold positions on the various boards of the organization. The South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table’s offices are located at 413
Platt Building, South Bend.
NCCJ’s Round Table hopes to create a special group at the University in the near future. From the small nucleus of three who will go to Lake Forest, its members desire to build an active organization at Notre Dame for American Brotherhood. They feel there is tremendous need for the religious ideals of justice and brotherhood in America today. —John Janowski
Marketing Dept, in
First Trade Meeting
Overwhelming approval of the Foreign Trade Conference sponsored by the De-„1 partment of Marketing last week was ! the verdict of all students and business*^ executives attending.
Dean McCarthy of the College of Com- | merce stated that “the cooperation from | speakers, businessmen, and students was I far more than expected considering that2 this was the first conference.” The re-1 sponse insured the conclave’s positional as an annual affair. Almost 100 busi-1 nessmen from the midwestern area at-fj tended the luncheon, panel discussion,^ and dinner.	I1
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, secretary^, of the advisory council of the federal! reserve system and vice-president of the' • First National Bank of Chicago, was the | luncheon speaker. Mr. Prochnow lauded | world trade as an instrument to raise | the standards of living in nations I throughout the world.	|
He said that the United States would | have to import a vastly increased amount f of goods from foreign countries if we | since the other countries of the world I cannot continue to pay with their al-1 expect to maintain our high export level, ! most depleted gold supply and promises/.^
During the afternoon panel all phases | of foreign trade were discussed thor-S? oughly. The principal speaker at the || dinner which concluded the conference 41
18
WND'S CRONAN AND JUNIOR PROM'S MANNING A shot in the arm
was Mr. Richard Hobbs, vice-president of Irwin Viadimer & Co. of Illinois, Inc. Mr. Hobbs explained the opportunities in the foreign market for local manufacturers and suggested that this production could be done in the foreign countries on a royalty basis with the American manufacturers retaining control.—Pat Stanton
Light-Craft Outlook Bleak, Sighs Piper
A bleak near-future for the light-airplane manufacturing industry was predicted last week by William T. Piper, President of the Piper Aircraft Corporation, at the Spring Banquet of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences.	.
Acording to Piper the desire to fly among American youth is intense, but they are not now in a financial position tc purchase aircraft and consequently cannot stimulate the industry. Their elders, who are in general the only ones in a financially favorable position to purchase airplanes, lack the inherent desire tdfly.
He also complained that the average light', ^airplane is unprofitable to its, o^ej^fflhless the owner has need to trajyel'iohger distances than are usually covered ift -automobile - trips, " and that
the average American citizen does not.
travel often enough or far enough to create a genuine market for this type of airplane.
Other speakers at the I.A.S. gathering included Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, c.s.c., chaplain of the Notre Dame Fire Department, and Mr. J. Allan MacLean, Chief Engineer of the Bendix Landing Gear and Brake Division in South Bend.
BROWN. FATHER LASKOWSKI AND PIPER
Unprofitable planes
Junior Prom Funds Diverted to WND
Campus radio station WND received an S150 shot in the arm this week from surplus funds of the Junior Prom.
The junior class, through the Prom committee, diverted the unexpected proceeds from the dance to the radio station instead of an outside charity as has been thg custom in the past.
The Junior Prom committee, headed by co-chairmen James Manning and Ed Raymond, insisted that the student-accumulated profits be turned over to a worthy student activity on campus. WND received the nod. These profits, not originally expected by the dance committee, were made possible by reduced band fees and decoration costs.
WND suspended broadcasting last Saturday until next September when rhe station will open with increased power and an expanded program schedule. This money will be used to pay current debts and purchase new equipment and records for the station. WND has been meeting operating expenses by selling programs and spot commercials to downtown merchants, campus shops, and student politicians seeking class offices.
Last week staff members distributed noise-suppressor gadgets to the residence halls to eliminate electric razor buzzing, fluorescent lamp interference, and to increase station reception. The response was worth the effort. WND has averaged 15 cards and letters a day from appreciative students.—Paul Theis
19
DOROTHY SCHMIDT, SENIOR FROM LAGUNA BEACH
MOLLY FLANAGAN. SOPHOMORE FROM SANTA ANA
Genevieve Weeger, senior from L.A.
Marjorie O'Hanlon, junior from Fullerton
Regina De Coursey, senior from Anaheim
20
REFUGE FROM TINSEL
Mt. St. Mary Girls Top H-wood Glamourpusses
By HARRY MONAHAN
Los Angeles and its glittering suburb, Hollywood, have clothed themselves in an aura of glamour, but a glance behind the rococo facade will show that this sprawling Southern California city has been securely infested and surrounded by elements of higher education. Among the many campuses vying for attention with Earl Carroll’s gilded hamburger heaven and Ciro’s costly “boxing arena” is that of Mount Saint Mary’s College. Above the smog and flickering neon lights, it casts a critical eye over all of the tinsel from a crag in the Brentwood Hills.
The Mount’s ridge wears its crown of white stone buildings slashed with red tile roofs at a jaunty angle. Carefully censored out of all publicity picture releases, but loudly attested to by invading swains from the crosstown schools, are the taxicab brigands who gloatingly reap the profits from a transportation situation which has made the Mount inaccessible except by burro or gear-clashing Yellow Cab.
The Mount is still a youngster among the nation’s colleges. The first classes were opened in 1925 by the founding order, the Sisters of St. Joseph of Caron-delet, in the buildings of St. Mary’s Academy, under the sponsorship of the late Archbishop John J. Cantwell of Los Angeles. The first buildings on the present 53 acre Brentwood site were not completed until 1931.
Following its founders’ purpose “to
MOUNT ST. MARY'S RESIDENCE HAU.
offer young women the opportunity to receive a liberal education in an eviron-ment conducive to the development of sound Christian principles,” the college administrators have kept the curriculum in a constant state of amendment, addition and deletion to fulfill that obligation. At the present time the college offers its 350 girls courses in all departments to earn the Bachelor of Aris and Bachelor of Science degrees as well as elementary and secondary teaching credentials.
When books, lecture notes and culture begin to pale and the weekend makes its appearance, the “City of the Angels” (not named after its rapidly diminishing pedestrian population as the Florida C. of C. would have us believe) does not lack places to play.
The No. 1 gathering spot for the Mt. St. Mary’s lassies is Freddie Martin’s plush bandbox, the Coconut Grove, in the swank Ambassador Hotel. This is particularly noticeable around the first of each month when Uncle Sam delivers G.I. stipends to his nephews at Loyola University and Los Angeles City College. The Mount version of the “New Look” can also be seen manuevering among the patrons of the Beverley Tropics and on the dance floor at the Beverley Hills Hotel. But when the Palladium’s marquee announces the arrival of a favorite music maker, they “come off the hill” and join the valley proletariat in a bruising rhumba or jive session.
Gerry Cassutt. senior from San Diego
When it comes to rating the men from neighboring schools, Santa Clara and St. Mary’s at Moraga have outranked their southern colleagues on the preferred list. Notre Dame’s invading Irish, however, bested all comers for one weekend during December as Mt. St. Mary’s joined the welcoming forces’to help the national champions keep the Florentine Gardens open until the wee small hours for the victory celebration.
From its summit the Mount keeps the plush of the “Miracle Mile” and the sham of Hollywood and Vine under close surveillance. In the city dedicated to the make-believe and the fabulous, the presence of the steadfast realism and concrete objectives of Mt. St. Mary’s program offers a striking comparison of values. Growing apace with the agents of tinsel fame is an institution of durable fact and culture.
SUMMER SESSION OF 1948 UNDERGRADUTE CALENDAR
June 21-22 (Mon. and Tues.)—Registration for courses. (Fee for registration after June 22. $5.)
June 23 (Wed.)—Classes begin at 8:00 am.
June 25 (Fri.)—Latest date for registration in courses.
June 27 (Sun.)—Formal opening of the session with Solemn Mass.
July 4 (Sun.)—Independence Day.
Aug. 12-13 (Thurs. and Fri.)—Examinations for all students in the summer session
Aug. 13 (Fri.)—Conferring of degrees. Washington HalL 8:00 pm.
21
PETE FRIDAY EYES THE VOTING MACHINE
CAMPAIGNERS PARADE IN FRONT OF CAF
Heaps of Hoopla Make Elections Hep
By Walt Collins
It was Thursday morning, May 13, and in the basement of the Dining Hall Fop was pushing his broom along the marble floor. He paid little attention to the three machines in the alcoves opposite the telephone booths. It was very quiet at 11 a.m. Thursday in the basement of the Dining Hall.
But it was not quite as quiet upstairs. Frantic last-minute campaign posters were waving in the entrance, and outside there was a near picket line of students carrying posters and wearing everything from tuxedos to old women’s dresses. In half an hour the balloting to select next year’s class officers would begin.
As 11:30 came nearer, a few of the students began to go down the steps to the basement. Pop decided he had been pushing the broom long enough. By 11:20, a group of about 20 had collected downstairs. Tables were being set up and posters were being plastered on the walls. At 11:30 the voting machines were plugged in and students began
coming downstairs in increasing numbers. The seven-and-one-half-hour voting session was under way.
POP HOLDS CAMPAIGN POSTER Plenty of broom pushing
Until almost 1 p.m. a terrific pace kept the machines registering votes as fast as the levers could be pulled. During the afternoon hours the crowd slackened a bit, but the voting area was never entirely deserted. As 5:30 and the dinner hour approached the number picked up again, and from then until- 7:00, when the polls closed, the tempo never ceased to increase. The last hours were the crucial ones and the candidates knew it. Personal campaigning was taken up in earnest. By 6:45 Pop’s floor was almost completely covered with feet and .paper and half-smoked cigarette butts. The day had reached its climax.
At 7:00 p.m. Election Chairman Ivo Fatigati stood up on a table and officially announced the closing of the polls. There was nothing more to be done. Candidates, campaign managers, and voters went upstairs puffing on cigarettes and cigars and mopping their foreheads with large 'handkerchiefs. They could only sit dowm, try to relax, and await the decision of the machines.
22
SOPHOMORE OFFICERS
Secretary Taylor, President Logan, Vice-President Williams, and Treasurer O'Brien
JUNIOR OFFICERS Treasurer Thornton, Vice-President Holway, President Shall, Secretary Lally
About 8 p.m. station WND broadcast the awaited news. One of the largest crowds of voters in the history of Notre Dame elections—1425 voters—had turned out today to put into office the men of their choice. The entire Four Leaf Clover Party was in; that meant that Pat Costello was president, Marty Wendell was vice-president, James J. McLaughlin was secretary and Don Murphy was treasurer of the Senior class.
The Juniors-to-be had voted in the Four Eoses Party for the last three positions, but had chosen their president, Eussell Skall, from the rival Bigger and Better party. That made Jim Holway vice-president, Robert Lally secretary ,
and Jack Thornton treasurer.
And the Sophomore class, more than two-thirds of which had turned out to vote, had pretty well split their vote. Tom Logan was settled in the presidential slot, Bob Williams had taken over the vice-presidential post, and Kobe Taylor and John O’Brien had been voted in as secretary and treasurer, respectively.
Of the nine candidates for delegates to the National Students’ Association convention, four had been chosen for the post. These included Lawrence D. Gill-ing, Robert L. McLaughlin, Joseph M. Mengden and Clarkson S. Fisher. The race was over.
Ivo Fatigati, Student Council Representative, had been the chairman of the election program, giving his time and effort to insure the success of the event. Bill Denning, a member of the Blue Circle, had been largely instrumental in procuring the voting machines. And Dick Hahn, also of the Blue Circle, had been of great practical assistance throughout the entire project.
At 8:30 p.m. on Thursday, May 13, Pop was pushing his broom along the marble floor of the Dining Hall basement. He payed little attention to the three voting machines that stood in the alcoves. It was quiet again in the basement of the Dining Hall.
SENIOR OFFICERS Treasurer Murphy. President Costello, Vice-President Wendell and Secretary McLaughlin
NSA REPRESENTATIVES
Gilling, McLaughlin and Mengden
23
DANCE QUEEN Barbara McClure and Chairman Ward McCabe cut a rug
200 Frosh and Dates
Dance in Drill Hall
As one Frosh put it after the final theme song, “It was great!” This was typical of the many comments of praise made as the 200 couples made their way out of the Navy Drill Hall at the close of the Freshman Informal last Saturday night. Throughout the evening Chairman Ward McCabe and his assistants were congratulated on the splendid job turned in on the affair, the first Frosh dance in memory held on campus.
Immediately after station WND’s broadcast, couples began filling the floor to put to use the danceable music supplied by Tony Papa’s band. From the first to the closing melody the “Big Barn” had the air of a grand ballroom. Gaily colored streamers gave the spacious hall the “New Look” in decorations, and the many lovely ladies with their highly polished escorts created a scene that would make the Waldorf and Sherman hotels take notice.
Highlight of the evening was the crowning of Miss Barbara McClure of St. Mary’s College “Gibson Girl of ’51” by frosh class president Tom Carroll. Before the coronation, Jack Powell sang two Irish ditties and then teamed with Bill Sahm, Dick Blaumeiser and Joe Harrison for a couple of barbershop quartet numbers. True to the Gay 90’s theme baritone Jack Broderick rendered some real old favorites in “Bicycle Built for Two,” and Victor Herbert’s “Every Day Is Ladies’ Day.” Tossed into the festivities were two piano interpretations by Tom Starr—“Malequena” and his own version of Martin’s “Bumble Boogie.”—Al Laporte
Orchestra to Present Symphony May 26
Rehearsals are well under way for the Chamber Orchestra’s presentation on May 26 of the first symphony by a Notre Dame orchestra in eight years. The orchestra will play Schubert’s B Flat symphony No. 5, the overture to Iphiginia by Gluck, Bach’s Air on the G String and the Sonata A quarto, enlarged for the Chamber Orchestra. The soloists will be Brother Jacob, C.S.C., who will play Bizet’s Agnus Dei on cello and Ed Ci-prus who will present Lalo’s Symphony Espagnole movements I and IV.
Mr. Charles A. Biondo, director of the University. Chamber Orchestra, announced in an interview that the Music Department will continue its revival of symphonic music during the summer and the 1948-49 school year. Mr. Biondo said that the summer program will include a laboratory orchestra and the continuation of the current duo and trio lecturerecital series.
The laboratory orchestra will be primarily for education of all string instrument players, regardless of ability, and will present one or two concerts during the summer. Assimilation of the less experienced players will be made possible by special scores designed to their abilities. The lecture-recital series will continue with violin-piano, and cello-violin-piano programs.
PRETTY HOPGOERS, Dorothy Mulcahy, Mary Bukolt, and Joan Schnickler turn on saucy smiles for the cameraman
FRESHMEN and dates disembark from special busses at Drill Hall
The revival will continue into the regular school year with further continuation of the lecture-recital series and the presentation of three full concerts which will feature the works of Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert. The soloists for next year’s concerts will be, at the first concert, Brother Jacob, who will play a cello concerto, the second will feature a piano concerto by Charles Lein-hart, Chamber Orchestra accompanist, and Andrew Fairlie will play a bassoon concerto at the third concert.
24
Names Make News
They Ought to Know ...
Professor THOMAS E. DOWNEY of the history department has been invited to be a visiting professor at the University of Havana, Cuba for the summer session. He will offer courses in the history and civilization of the United States and will also do research work in the history of the Carribean area. . . .
The Rev. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, c.s.C., professor of education, was elected last week to the Board of Directors of the newly formed National Association of Foreign Student Advisors. The primary aim of NAFSA is to serve more effectively the interests and needs of exchange students. . . .
Professor CECIL I. BIRDER, head of the department of speech, served as a judge in the grand national finals of the Chicago Herald-American’s Benjamin Franklin Oratorical Contest last week in the Chicago City Hall. . . .
JOE DILLON recently unearthed an old photograph which bears witness to the fact that 50 years ago there were
BROWNSON HALL DURING 1897 CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS* Low on cash
Notre Dame men broke. Unable to finance a trip home for Christmas, the crew shown in the picture (see cut) contented themselves with a card game in Brownson Hall.
Success Is Sweet...
JOHN LYNCH, of Detroit, a 1943 graduate of the University of Notre Dame has been chosen as one of the six winners of $2000 fellowships in creative writing at Stanford University, it was announced recently by acting president Alvin C. Eurich. The award was made for Lynch’s outstanding work in short stories. His first published story, “The Burden,” was printed last year in Atlantic and has since been picked for both the 0. Henry Memorial Volume and the Best Short Stories of 1947. . . .
In the Northern Indiana Artists Association Exhibit, which opened May 9 in the old Studebaker home in South Bend, several Notre Dame men won recognition for their work. For his ceramic portrait entitled “Delphine” DONALD H. BIRREN was named as having the ‘outstanding work of the exhibition.” FRANCIS J. HANLEY, professor of art, was awarded the first prize for
BIRREN'S 'DELPHINE' High in class
water-color painting, arid HARRY S. BROWN, a ’47 graduate, was awarded the first prize for oil paintings. .. .
A comparison of the presidential campaign of 1848, when a disappointed Democrat brought defeat to his party by heading a third party, with the campaign of 1948 features an article on third parties in the June issue of The Sign, national Catholic monthly. The article was written by DALE FRANCIS, a graduate student in political science. In the lead article of the June issue of Information, a Paulist magazine, Mr. Francis writes on the semantics of apologetics. He is also an American correspondent for the London Catholic Herald. . . .
To Each His Own ...
Engaged to JOSEPH F. O’BRIEN, Arts and Letters senior from Philadelphia, Pa.: Miss Betty D. Ackil of South Bend. . . .
Engaged to GEORGE E. SCHROEDER, law senior from Ottawa, Ohio: Miss Ruth Marie Finster, senior at . Sina Heights College (Adrian, Mich.), and also from Ottawa. . . .
Engaged to JOE NAUGHTON, com- ! merce sophomore from Pittsfield, Mass.: ; Miss Mary Lou Marvel of Mishawaka. i The wedding will take place in August. i
♦ ■	i
i
Engaged to WILLIAM O. DIOGUAR- | DI, graduate student from Kearny, N.J., j and coach of the freshman baseball j team: Miss M. Felicia Schroeder, St. Mary’s senior from Leipsic, Ohio. No date has been set for the wedding.. . .
* 1—O’Sullivan; 2—Bouza; 3—McKenney; 4— O'Glynn; 5—Louis; 6—Fr. Revels; 7—J. A. Dillon.
25
SCHOLASTIC SLOLTT
Leahy (Sob) Was Right All the Time
Old Timers Outrun, Outpass Varsity 20-14
MacAllister shook the mothballs out of the blue and the green jerseys, Charlie Callahan swept out the Press Box, Coach Leahy broke out another gross of aspirin and when the final gun sounded the 1948 Irish varsity found itself on the short end of a football score for the first time in three years. They may have arrived on the Stadium gridiron in a hearse, but the Old Timers roared off brandishing the 20-14 victory. Twenty thousand “experts” will now spend the summer helping Coach Leahy draw a pessimistic picture of Notre Dame’s chances next year.
But a good look at the talent of the 1948 Old Timers ought to dispel some of’ the varsity gloom. Johnny Lu jack took time off from public speaking to engineer the varsity scalping, the second in the history of the series. Towering John Yonakor and speedster “Zeke” O'Connor took over catching duties and spent a busy afternoon slipping through the varsity pass defense. When the varsity defense grew wary of the sky-borne attack, the oldsters slipped the ball to Bob Livingstone, Cornie Clatt, Pete Ashbaugh and John Agnone to try the overland route. Livingstone’s second touchdown dash gave the local fans a view of what the Trojans had to con-
COACH LEAHY AND AIDES WEAR SAD SMIRKS A pessimistic picture was in the offing
tend with last fall. Everyone, including the referee, was faked out as the “Liver” reversed his field to scoot through a line opening.
The varsity weakness at tackle was obvious, too obvious for Irish hopes. Coach Leahy threw every possible combination into the breech, but to little
GLAD TO MEET YOU Capt. Fischer meets Old Timer Capt. Connor
GO GET 'EM, BOYS
Old Timer Coach Bill Early sends his men to battle
26
THE PLAYER TO WATCH, ERNIE ZALEJSKI, TRIES TO
SHAKE A TACKLER DURING LONG RUN SATURDAY.
avail. Ziggy Czarobski and George Connor moved the varsity opposition any way they pleased. Floyd Simmons found the spot particularly good for picking up yardage.
Fortunately the varsity was able to field some strong linebacking material. Bill Walsh sat this one out, but Walt Grothaus and Jerry Groom divided the centerpost duties and tried to stem the Old Timer ground attack. Guards Marty Wendell and Bob Lally were busy
dragging down the opposing backs that bolted through the weak line slot.
If their line play was weak at times and the pass defense riddled, the varsity showed plenty of backfield wealth. As predicted, Emil Sitko and Larry Coutre went through, around and over the Old Timer line to keep the varsity attack from stalling. Sitko came out of one pile-up with a sprained ankle, but it was not a serious injury.
The Irish passing game next fall will
be in capable hands with Frank Tri-pucka and Bob Williams to do the pitching. They divided the scoring honors as Trip was at the helm for the first varsity score which sent Sitko blasting through the center, while Williams tossed to frosh halfback Leo Mc-Killip in the closing seconds of the game for- the other tally. Trip turned in a capable performance and should leave the Irish mentor no worries about the
(Continued on Page 30)
TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE Blocker, foreground, wastes energy as horde of varsity players drag down Oldtimer Simmons
WHOOPS. HE'S GOT ME Emil Sitko vainly attempts to brush off a tackler as Sig-naigo (54) and Lujack (50) move in to help
27
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Spring Game Uncovers Sleepers And Coordination Loses to Lujack
By Pete Brown
Spring football certainly ended with a resounding crash last Saturday. If the overcast of exams was not clouding the atmosphere, one would have thought it was a Saturday in September, rather than one in May. The cloudy Indiana weather, the crowded caf and the transients roaming the campus were all present.
The crowd of 20,000 was large for a spring game, but it did not even fill half the Stadium. The newspaper men were there, but not in the usual large numbers as in the fall. Wilfred Smith, Francis Powers, Leo Fischer, and Jack Clarke represented the Chicago papers. Jim Costin covered the game for the South Bend Tribune. Cleveland and Detroit papers were also represented.
The “old men” had been saying they did not expect to play more than a few minutes. They were not in shape. How could anyone expect them to play any more? I doubt very much if any one of the former All-Americans and near-AllAmericans played as long in any one of their college games as they did last Saturday. John Lujack said several weeks ago that he had never played on a losing team in the Stadium and was not going to start now. He must be psychic. No, he just proved more conclusively why he is the greatest quarterback in Notre Dame history, if not in collegiate history.
Art Statuto, who won his only mono
gram in 1944 and then warmed the bench through the ’46 and ’47 seasons, played a brilliant game at offensive center. John Agnone, another two-season bench boy, equaled if not bettered any thing the varsity halfbacks accomplished during the afternoon. “Zeke” O’Connor, who played 50 minutes of the game, caught seven of the 15 passes Lujack completed. When he wasn’t catching passes, he was blocking for the Old Timer backs. On defense he kept the varsity from running wide. “Zeke” was a regular in 1944, but after a hitch in the service he returned to sit on the bench in the ’46 season. In the ’47 season he didn’t dress for one game. It seems that these men might have been overlooked on Cartier- before.
When Coy McGee took off down the east sidelines with the kickoff after the Old Timers’ first touchdown, it seemed that the varsity was answering the question, “What will Notre Dame do if they are scored upon first?” What resulted in the following three quarters proved nothing. It is a good thing the varsity took a beating. They can be beat. Up to last Saturday they had an idea they couldn’t lose. During the week prior to the game, one of the varsity members was heard saying that the varsity couldn’t lose, because they had co-ordination. They may have had co-ordination, but they didn’t have Lujack.
Wildcats Blocking Clean ND Net Record
Northwestern looms as the major obstacle to another unbeaten Notre Dame tennis team as the season rolls ts a smashing climax tomorrow at Evanston.
The match promises to be a thrilling one, for Coach Paul Bennett has every one of last year’s Big Nine conference champions back including singles titleholder Ted Petersen. Petersen and his teammates, Bill Landin, Grant Golden, Larry Daly, Marv Beskin and Ted Hain-line are all out for revenge. Victories have been scarce for Northwestern against Notre Dame since Coach Walter Langford arrived in 1940. Since that time the Irish have lost only twice while winning five contests. Last year the match was rained out.
The only point of comparison between the two squads lies in their efforts against Michigan. Notre Dame thrilled a home crowd, May 1, when they defeated the power-loaded Wolverines, 5 matches to 4, but Northwestern found the boys from Ann Arbor too tough and succumbed by the same score in their recent match. Coach Langford points out that the Notre Dame squad won’t be playing against figures tomorrow but against a strong, well-balanced club which could take three singles and the last two doubles if they have a good day.
At any rate the Wildcats are sure to break one mark since Michigan is the only team this season which has won so much as one singles or doubles encounter; the rest of the opponents have been shut out. DePauw and Marquette were recent victims by scores of 9-0 and 7-0, respectively, and Kentucky joined the parade last Saturday when the' Irish trounced them, 9-0, at Lexington.
SAFE AT FIRST
Ohio's Gebhardt beats the throw to Petrzelka
v—--n
STEERIKE TWO
Calls the Umpire as Kozlik swings and misses
28
KAMPUS KEGLEHS END YEAR WITH SMOKER
Father Hesburgh presents Gene Derrico, high scorer for the year, with trophy at Keglers smoker Monday night. Ernie Huffman, league head, is at right of Derrico.
Irish Split Pair, 6-3, 6-0 with Buckeye Nine
Rebounding from a stinging 6-3 defeat to Ohio State Friday afternoon, the Fighting Irish surprised everyone Saturday by backing up Walt Mahannah’s brilliant four-hit performance with a spree of runs and errorless fielding for a 6-0 shutout victory.
In the first game Friday it was all Ohio State and Pete Perini as Coach Floyd Stahl’s Buckeyes pounded John Creevy for nine hits while Perini held
singles and a stolen base.
Tomorrow afternoon in Lansing, Notre Dame encounters Michigan State for a single game before returning here to play Purdue on Tuesday, May 25. And if the Irish batsmen continue to encourage their pitchers with a repetition of Saturday’s brand of baseball they could be tucking away a couple more unexpected wins.
Here tomorrow afternoon the freshman baseball team will play a scheduled game with Northern Indiana Transit at 1 p. m.
TWENTY CENTURIES
Is a long time, isn’t it, Gentlemen? But it has taken that long to develop suits and coats that really fit the male species.
Parker-Winterrowd clothes are famous for two words—“THEY FIT.” They fit you like no other clothes. We have changed the measurements in many ways to make you both smart looking and comfortable. For example, the coats hang perfectly on your shoulders so that every move you make will not disturb the good appearance and fit either in our ready to wear or custom made suits, coats and sport coats made from flannels, gabardines, shetlands or fine worsteds.
You can benefit by placing your orders soon, all at moderate prices. Notre Dame men may use their charge accounts.
PARKER - WINTERROWD Inc.
115^-117% N. Main St.
(North of Oliver Hotel)
the Irish to four blows as he tucked another* win under his belt. Leading the Ohio batting were third-sacker Bob Bernhardt and centerfielder Ray Gebhardt, both of whom had three hits apiece. One of Gebhardt’s was a long home run to left Centerfield in the fifth inning which scored two runs. It was the third circuit clout off Creevy in as many starts.
The Irish just didn’t have it Friday. Their biggest inning was the fifth when they scored two runs on a single by Petrzelka, an infield error, Buster Hiller’s soaring triple, and a high foul fly behind the third base bleachers.
But Saturday it was a different story. Pushed for recognition by the Old Timer’s game and the track meet with Michigan State Coach Jake Kline’s nine wrested a neat decision from the favored Buckeyes. Playing revitalized baseball Notre Dame pushed across five quick runs in the first two innings to take a commanding lead. The last tally came in the fifth inning as Koblosh got his third hit of the day and scored on Petrzelka’s single and McHale’s sacrifice. Ohio used four hurlers to no avail.
Pitcher Walt Mahannah was always the master* of the situation as he held the Ohio boys to four scattered hits in spiking their big guns. The only time he was in hot water was the eighth inning when two Buckeyes wound up on second and third as a result of two successive
"Not even Frankie Swoonatra could make me miss Dentyne Chewing Gum! That nifty flavor really sends me— 1 mean it really does. And the way Dentyne helps keep my teeth white, I wanta turn on the old smile all the time."
Dentyne Gum—Made Only By Adams
Come on, Johnny, mother promised us Dentyne Chewing Gum if we only sat through it once!**
29
Leahy (Sob) Was Right (Continued from Page 27) signal calling department next fall. Williams is still slow getting those passes off and paid for his delay by being smothered several times by a fast charging Old Timer line.
In the varsity line play the work of Captain Bill Fischer was heartening. The big Chicago guard made the center an unhealthy spot for the old men and gave his own backs many of the few line openings they were able to find. Notre Dame’s end duo, Leon Hart and Jim Martin looked like they were playing mid-season ball and skirting the flanking positions was bad policy for Lu jack and Co.
Old Timer scores were the result of sustained drives of 68, 94 and 91 yards. The first two scores were tallied on a combined aerial and ground attack which the varsity was unable to solve. In the first score Lu jack threw nine of his day’s quota of passes to eat up the yardage. He used Yonakor and O’Connor for targets while Cornie Clatt and Pete Ashbaugh, in one of his few leather packing demonstrations on the local gridiron, handled the ground maneuvers. Bob Livingstone scored from the nine-yard line for the first tally and John Agnone took a Lu jack pass in the end zone for the second.
Coach Bill Earley’s old men decided to prove theii* arteries hadn’t hardened too much and pushed their third score over via the ground route. Livingstone again scored, this time from the four-yard line. Lujack missed the third conversion to give him a .667 average for his footwork.
Coy McGee, the Texas Jackrabbit, put the varsity back in the ball game after the Old Timers’ first score by taking Connor’s kick-off back to the oldster 14-yard line before being dragged down from behind. Five plays later Sitko hit pay dirt and Oracko got his first of two conversions for the day. Bob Williams* last second pass which gave the varsity their only other score was set up after a Lujack pitch out missed its target and was recovered by the green shirts on the Old Timer 13-yard line.
While showing defensive weakness, the varsity was able to eat up yardage in its offensive play. In addition to their two scoring drives they pushed the Old Timers back inside their own 15-yard line four times, but intercepted passes and lack of time wiped out their scoring chance. In the closing minutes of the first quarter Coach Leahy’s eleven moved to the oldster six-yard line with Swis-towicz, McGee and Sitko pounding the center of the line. The opposition stiffened and took over on downs.
The half time gun found Bob Williams trying to toss a scoring pass after having reached the Old Timer* 13 by aerials to Coutre, Wightkin and Doug Waybright. Lujack stopped the third varsity threat by intercepting Tri-pucka’s pass on his own nine yard line. It was another intercepted pass which stopped the fourth drive. This time it was Art Statuto who plucked one of Tripucka’s passes out of the hands of Ernie Zalejski on the 10-yard line.
Coach Leahy said just before spring drills opened that he felt it would take a “darn good team” to beat his 1948 varsity. Well, we have found that “darn good team.” Checking next fall’s
^DcuaiasShoei
W. L. DOUGLAS fSHOE CO., BROCKTON IS, MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
schedule though we faiLto find any team on it which will have Lujack, Czarobski, Connor, Sullivan, O’Connor (either Bucky or Zeke), Statuto, Signaigo, Livingstone, Gompers, Simmons, Ashbaugh, Clatt, etc., in its line-up. They may have SOME talent to match these names, but they won’t have it ALL. But they are going to have to have all of it to top the 1948 Irish eleven.
$10 CASH FREE
to the person providing information which leads to occupancy of apartment in September. Contact Ted Schaetzle, 334 Walsh Hall.
30

you ought to know
516,500—It takes this number of men and women to operate the twenty-two Bell Telephone Companies. Each operating company is responsible for furnishing telephone service within its own territory.
26,000—The number of people who are employed in the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. It is their function to provide Long Distance and Overseas service.
131.400—This numbers the employees of the Western Electric Company who manufacture, purchase and distribute equipment and supplies for the entire Bell System.
6,000—That’s the number of people in Bell Telephone Laboratories. Through research and development they constantly improve this country’s telephone service—already the finest in the world.
2,100—That’s the number of people in the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Through advice and assistance, they coordinate the activities of the entire Bell System.
In all, there are some 682,000 men and women in the Bell System. As this country’s communications service is expanded and improved, opportunitieswill growstill greater. There’s a future in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
31
Cindermen Close Curtain on Dismal Season Tomorrow in State Championships at Indiana
dual meets earlier in the season. It was these same performers who last year slipped in the state meet and enabled Indiana to take possession of the title.
By UM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s up and down track team, which started another down cycle last Saturday by dropping a crucial meet to the Michigan State Spartans, 74 to 67, appears slated to go even lower on the scale tomorrow when it meets Indiana, Purdue, and assorted other Hoosier schools in the state collegiate track battle at Bloomington.
The Irish will be attempting to regain the state crown which they relinquished to Indiana and the Boilermakers two
erson of Indiana will further the Irish difficulties. He has performed well in struggles with Minnesota’s Fortune Gor-dien this year. George Sullivan, John Johnson and Floyd Simmons will carry the full brunt of the Irish responsibility in the weight department of the meet.
The Irish scored in the field events against Michigan State, but they were off their usual form, and did not take the majority of points in that portion of the contests, as they have done in other
Tomorrow the Irish spikesters will be favored to win the crown, but in view of the conformity to an up and down cycle which they have followed religiously, the Notre Dame trackmen seem doomed to sustain another defeat.
Tomorrow will mark the end of the actual season for the cinder kickers, but some outstanding performers will travel to Milwaukee for the Central Collegiates on June 12. The Notre Dame squad has practically no chance of scoring in this affair, which attracts some of the best performers in the middle west.
years ago, and of which Indiana took sole possession last year in a close battle here. Actually, the meet is open to any of the top three competitors, N.D., Purdue, or Indiana.
Bob Smith, the star dashman, will be challenged by Chuck Peters of Indiana who has travelled the 100 yard dash in :09.5, and the 220 yard dash in :20.9. Smith had a :09.8 time for the century against Michigan State, and a :21.1 time in the 220 dash. His best time for the 100 yard race was turned in against Bradley and Drake three weeks ago when he blazed the course in :09.6 seconds. Peters is the defending state champion in both events. Charlie May of the Lafayette school will also figure in the dashes.
The Boilermakers are favored to win the pole vault, and are also very powerful in the broad jump and high jump. Notre Dame will probably concede all the points in the broad jump, as they did in the Spartan affair last Saturday. Jim Miller and Ray Struble, however, will be among the top contenders for the vaulting title.
The distance and middle distance races will be the attraction of the contest with Bill Leonard of N.D. and Tom Deal of Indiana being pressed by Lewis Blanchard of Purdue in the half-mile. Leonard and Deal will be featured in the mile duel too. Leonard and Jim Kittell are expected to cutrun the downstate competitors in the mile if they turn in a time similar to last week’s when they finished in an intentional tie in 4:21.6.
Bill Fleming, the high scorer for the Irish in their past three contests, will have a slight edge over Tom Mitchell of Indiana in the hurdles. Last year John Smith of the Irish established a new Notre Dame outdoor mark of :14.4 when he edged Mitchell. Fleming equaled this mark last Saturday. Bob McDavid is expected to score in the barrier events, too.
In the field events where top performances were missing last Saturday, Rob-
z? SPALDING
AMERICA^ MOST DEFINITE contribution TO TENNIS IS 1HE*twst service/,...th& HARD-HIT,TWISTING, HIGH-BOUNCING BALL ALLOWS THE
Major Tournaments, including the U. S. Davis Cup and National Championships.
SERVICE
Malice?
w
championship , ™	U.S.UT.A.-WOOI CWrt
tHAMP«>NSHIPl»:
&
THE TWINS OF CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS
? The Spalding and the Spalding, made Wright aDitson Tennis Balls lead the field in official adoptions for
p*6*

32
IN THE GROOVE
Lionel Hampton, left cuts some capers during his Monday night Drill Hall concert. By the concert's end, Hamp had a good share of his audience dancing in the aisles.
Sky-High Art Studio Displays Its Work in 94th Exhibit
The Department of Fine Arts recently opened its fourth-floor studios in the Main Building for its 94th annual art exhibit. Featured in the display are works of all phases of the department’s program including oil paintings, figure and life drawings, story illustration, and commercial art.
Eugene Eossie, a student in the department, has already done some commercial advertising work for several South Bend department stores. He has work displayed in many sections of the exhibit.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Larus & Brother Company Richmond, Virginia
’It Ain’t Hay’
(Continued from Page 9) clever clowning of Gerry Hekker; the Communist duo, who are painfully out of place during the whole thing, but give a really fine performance, and Beverly Watson who is eye-catching as the sophisticate.
The show is, in many instances, above par for the Washington Hall Course. The music is easily as good as any other collection Cashman has turned out, and some will argue it’s his best.
The show lacks a polish and smoothness that could only have been given it with more and more rehearsal, and it is forced at times where there seems to be a conflict between book and music. The book — by Joe Herrington and Verne Kelley—lacks a lot of punch, but it moves the show along without the usual unnecessary complications, for which they deserve more than a vote of thanks.
“It Ain’t Hay” certainly “ain’t.” It’s more of a blooming flower. Had it been given more time to nurture before being picked, it might have turned out to be a truly magnificent thing.
J. Pasi Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
ALL panda-monium just broke loose for this little guy with the hairy ears and two black eyes. Somebody snitched his Wildroot Cream-Oil! You may not be a panda — but why not see what Wildroot Cream-Oil canda? Just a little bit grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. And Wildroot Cream-Oil helps you pass the Fingernail Test! It’s non-alcoholic ... contains soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And always ask your barber for a professional application. In case there’s a, panda in your house — keep some Wildroot Cream-Oil handa for him!
of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc^ Buffalo 11, N. Y.
JUNIOR MISS* DIRECTOR
Prof. Leonard Sommer, who will direct the Catholic Theatre Guild's "Junior Mas," opening Sunday at St Patrick's School Hall. A number of Notre Dame students are in the cast.
33
MARVIN JEWELERS
[Inc.}
126 N. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
The Headquarters for ARROW
Graduation Gifts
Leather . . .
LUGGAGE HANDBAGS
BILLFOLDS
Cigarette Cases—Pipes
Newest styles and trends, For the best of friends.
Hans/-Rintzsch
Shop
138 N. Michigan Street
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
PERFECT FOR GOLF,
TENNIS, OR BASQUING IN THE SUN
W CURVE REMINDS ME OF A DR. GRABOW PRE-SMOKED PIPE...
Arrow Sport
$1.25 up


Merely wearing Arrow basque shirts will not make you a Snead or a Budge, but Arrow’s large selection of sport knits in solid colors and stripes will do wonders for torsos tame as well as terrific.
See your Arrow dealer today for a long-wearing, handsome and comfortable Arrow Basque shirt.
SpO • $200 • $350 • $500
Fashioned by Linkman
Dr. Grabow Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago u, III
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
34
Have you made up your mind on what you’ll do when you graduate this June? If not, consider the opportunity available to you in the Aviation Cadets.
Few jobs anywhere can match this offer. When you win your wings and a Second Lieutenant’s commission, you’re paid as high as $336 per month to start. The training you get before and after you’re commissioned is recognized as the world’s finest —and it equips you for a well-paid lifetime career in military or commercial aviation.
You’re eligible for appointment to the Cadets if you’re single, between 20 and 261/2 years old, and have completed at least one-half the require
ments for a degree from an accredited college or university (or pass an equivalent examination).
Talk the program over with men in your class who have been Aviation Cadets. And for full
details, ask at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station. Why not drop in today and discuss it?
U. S. Army and I. S. Air Force Recruiting Service
WIN YOUR WINGS
WITH THE AVIATION CADETS
Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.