
SUB Movies 
Superman Returns 101 Debartolo $3 Admission Thurs. 10/5 @10pm Fri. 10/6 @8pm & 10:30pm Sat. 10/7 @8pm & 10:30pm · 
Fireside Chat with 
Officer Tim McCarthy 
Thurs. 10/5 CoMo Lounge 8pm Refreshments Provided 
.. . 

Acousticafe 
Lafortune Basement 10pm-12am Thurs. 10/5 
"Drinking drivers are like lightbulbs: the first to get turned on are the first to burn out." 

_SCiHOLASTIC 
r'h e Fi ft h o f O c to b e r 2 o o 6 
Ilews o4 

····························-DELAYED GRATIFICATION 

Kate Furlong Early admissions policies have been changing at prestigious schools across the nation. Will Notre Dame follow suit? 
COVER: A SKEWED PERSPECTIVE 
Chistopher Meskill With grades on the rise nationally, administrators look into the validity of grades at Notre Dame. 
Culture 16 
REMEMBERING A PROFESSOR 
Ann-Marie Woods Abeloved music professor is remembered by his students, coworkers and friends. 
CAMPUS CHATTER 

Regina Gesicki and Michael O'Connor You've been staring at the arkies in Bond Hall. See if they've been staring back. And in the mean time, take a run to Chipotle. 

Sports 26 

..... -FAITH AND FREE WEIGHTS 
Brittany Lash Scholastic examines the relationship between faith and athletics at Notre Dame. 

Humor 33 
-FINEST COACH IN THE LAND 
Mike Healy Coaching girls' football might seem like alow-key extracurricular activity. For Farley Hall, it might just be a medley of girl-on-girl makeouts, violence and nudity. 
From the:Editor . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Cribs..................22 Staff E:ditoridl . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Sports Notes. . . . .........26 · Impotent Fin~ings. . . . . . . . . . 8 Gipper ................34 Snapshot, ·i· ............18 Five Questions ...........36 
! 
I 
8, No. 4 • 5 OCT 2006 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief Christopher Meskill 
David Poell 
Managing Editor Doug Schlarman 
Exocutlvo Editor Miko Laskey 
Associate Editor 
Claire Sobczak 
Executive Copy Editor 
Regina Gosicki 
Executive Copy Assistant Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors Julie Ruffin Jana Stewart 
News 
Daric Snyder, editor 
Kate Furlong, assistant 
Culture 
Michael O'Connor, editor 
Sarah Barrett, assistan_t 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor Brittany Lash, assistant 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor Joe Latta!, assistant 
Design 
Emma Daugherly, assistant 
BethAnn Viscoglia, assistant 
Kathleen Dilonschneider Carolin Hubscher 
Mandy Miller 
Katie KNapleton 
Jamie Schulte 
Chris Sebastian 
Crysta Sulaiman Ellen Voglrieder 
Photography 
Kristin Keva, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant Courtney Sullivan 
Business Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER STORY 
CHRISTOPHER MESKILL 
COVER DESIGN 
JANA STEWART 
Disce Quasi Semper VicttmlS Vive Quasi Cras 1Vlorittm1S 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of tho publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. Baby Teeth I Robert Sedlack is super cool. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the ned issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. 
· Monday before the issue. Adrienne Miscimarra is dreamy. AU letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All let­ters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right-to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2,50 per copyj please specify volume and number, or date. You know when they feel like bags...of sand. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
5 OCT 2006 





Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

ANSWER~ THE CALL.V)x 

FATHER JENKINS' CHALLENGE 
Maintaining a strong Catholic presence in the 
faculty raises difficult questions about the future of 
Notre Dame's academic reputation.
'Lastweek, the Rev. John I. Je~ki~s? C.S.C. ad?ressed the Notre Dame faculty about his v1s10n for the mtellectual development of the university. The speech reiterated 
the importance of Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university and also stressed the president's commitment to enhancing Notre Dame's reputation as a research institution. A number of factors necessary to achieving this goal were mentioned, but one seemed to stick out among the others: the university's dedication to seek "a preponderance offaculty at the university who are Catholic." 
This announcement was not surprising. Since its inception, the university has defined itself primarily through its Catholic character. An essential aspect ofthis character has always been the presence of a faculty community that is predominantly Roman Catholic. 
Yet statistical data shows that the preeminence ofCatholic faculty members has started to wane during the past 20 years. According to the Office of!nstitutional Research, the percentage offull-time faculty who identify themselves as Catholic has dropped from about 65 percent in 1985 to a level hovering just above 50 percent in 2004. 
Interestingly enough, this decrease has coincided with Notre Dame's emergence as a budding research institution. Though there is notnecessarily a causal relationship between the two trends, it does seem reasonable to attribute the decreased percentage of Catholic teachers partially to an increased emphasis on hiring scholars in fields that do not typically boast a large number of Catholics. 
Whatever the precise relation may be, the pointis that Fr.Jenkins' address left lingering questions. Does a "preponderance" ofCatholic faculty necessarily mean a majority ofCatholics? Also, how exactly should we understand the influence a professor's Catholicism has on the university's Catholic identity? In fields like philosophy and theology, where an emphasis on teaching the Catholic faith is the strongest, the importance ofmaintaining a critical mass ofCatholics is evident. But with disciplines like chemistry and mathematics, it is not as clear why tlie instructor's religion should be a factor in hiring. 
These are questions that Fr. Jenkins needs to answer during the next decade. Both an.'.emphasis on research and on maintaining Catholicity are no doubt essential in keepingNotte Dame distinctive among other elite institutions. Yet it remains to be seen how the university will deal with potential conflicts ofinterest. 
In an interview with Scholastic last winter, Dean Mark Roche of the College of Arts & Letters spoke about this coming challenge. He asserted that no drop in academic quality had resulted from seeking Catholic faculty, but admitted that the process is a delicate one. "To be frank, we haven't figured out how to search as opposed to sift for candidates, and we're trying to work on that," Roche said. It would be nice to think that the prospect ofworking at a Catholic university would attract a large number ofthe world's best scholars. But as the times (and Notre Dame) change, it seems there will be more uncertainties than definite answers on this issue. 
5 OCT2006 
PUTTING THE FLAME OUT 
No More Smoking in Notre Darne St_adiurn 
.. 
• Erin Robertson 

T he "old boys' club" image of a grandfather lighting up a cigar while cheering on the Fighting Irish is up in smoke after a new smoking ordinance passed in St.Joseph County earlier this year banned smoking in Notre Dame Stadium. It looks like nicotine gum now will have to serve as the new stress reliever for diehard ND smokers. The ordinance follows a recent national trend in anti-smoking legislation, which began emerging in the 1990s. Currently, 17 states and 461 towns, cities and counties have public no-smoking laws in effect. According to the American Nonsmokers' Rights Foundation, five states and 82 towns, cities and counties approved non-smoking ordinances in 2005, including St. Joseph County. Passed on April 10, 2006, the St. Joseph County non-smoking ordinance affects local public facilities like restaurants, stores, malls and sports arenas, including Notre Dame Stadium. The law prohibits smoking in the stadium's seating areas, aisles, restrooms, corridors and outdoor concourses. Smokers are also not allowed to leave the stadium for a smoke and then re-enter. Last spring's Blue and Gold Game was the first football game affected by the anti-smoking ordinance. It is uncertain how many students will be affected adversely by the new law, as Notre Dame is known for its low percentage of smokers. This past year, Notre Dame's Office ofResidence Life and Housing discontinued asking the smoking preference question when pairing roommates because they found that it was an unreliable measure of how many incoming freshmen actually smoked. Generally, only two to five students each year checked the smoking box because many of the incoming freshmen completed the housing form with their parents, says Scott Kachmarik, associate director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing. Also, the 2005 CSS Institutional Profile obtained from the Of­fice oflnstitutional Research showed that only 5 .5 percent of Notre Dame seniors smoked cigarettes during the past year compared to 7.5 percent ofseniors from other private institutions and 8.2 percent of seniors from all undergraduate institutions. Students have had mixed reactions to the new regulations on smoking. Veronica Dominguez, a student at St. Mary's College and a former smoker, says, "I disagree with the recent smoking ban because, yes, it is rude to smoke, but [the smoking ban] goes against personal freedoms." Jonathan Robinson, a junior at the university, took a different stance on the smoking ban. "I've never encountered smoking in the stadium, but I wouldn't like it ifl did," he says. "[The smoking ban] is good because someone shouldn't impose their personal preferences on another person." 
5 OCT2006 



The factors behind Notre Dame's decision to retain early action admissions 
•Kate Furlong 
.·

I'fit£~ l):ype.r-~oip.p~titiveJvyLeague,: 
,.,. . · when one schooLmake~.ap.y<soi-t o~,-, · · change or decision, the others are · 
sure to take notice. So on September 13, 
2006, when Harvard College announced it 
would end its nonbinding early admission 
program for the class of 2012, there was 
immediate speculation that it would 
start a chain reaction. Srire enough, less 
than a week later Princeton University 
-which until now has used a binding 
early decision policy -announced_ that 
they would also be changing to asingle 
admission process beginning in the fall 
of2008. With the UniversityofVirginia 
following. suit,. much debate has arisen 
over the merits of the decisions and the 
repercussions for the institutions, their 
applicants and the college admission 
process as a whole. On a campus like 
the University of Notre Dame's, where 
about one-third of admitted students 
knew they were accepted by Christmas 
oftheir senior year ofhigh. school, there 
are bound to be questions as to whether 
NotreDamemayalso belookingtomake 
a move ofthis kind. 
Early decision, formerly used by both Princeton and Virginia, allows students to be notified ofadmission by December oftheir senior year on the condition that, if accepted, they will attend that school. Harvard's previous method, often known as "single-choice early action," prevents students from applying early to any other institution but does not require them to attend Harvard ifthey decide on another school after regular decisions are sent out in the spring. Early ac~ion, which Notre Dame uses, allows applicants to receive notice of admission, rejection 
.... 


6OCT2006 
, ..~, ~--(.'. '.· . ' . ~·: :·:-<·;:>_ 
.-. ;. :·,:~.,.~•-?ii•:(-:·;:;,/;~-~;~-,· ·:···, ·.: ,-·y­

ScholasticNews(fl · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
or deferment to the ofthe lack ofcommitment and regular candidate pool benefit of early notification. by mid-December. Given an extra four months Unlike other early to make their decisions,· decision processes, those students are often more N o t r e D a m e ' s likely to visit campus, either early action allows on their own or through applicants to apply recruitment weekends such as early to other schools the Reilly Scholars Weekend and requires no and Spring Visitation. The commitment to Notre admissions office is willing Dame if admitted. IIJJll.lJI 111111 to gamble that the extra time 
Harvard's, Prince-and effort reviewing early 
ton's and Virginia's -••• applications will pay off when a n n o u n c e m e n ts elite students visit campus and seemed hopeful that see what Nguyen calls "the 
the change to a single-date application of minorities in all three categories: unique place we hold in the American process would eliminate what interim applicants, admitted students and enrolled college landscape," hopefully deciding Harvard President Derek Bok, in a students," he says. Both stress that . to enroll. press release, called early admission applying early action does not necessarily While the issue of eliminating early programs' tendency "to advantage the give students an advantage, nor does action at Notre Dame will most likely advantaged." The institutions intend applying regular action hurt a student's be addressed at the upcoming Board of for low-income and minority students chances. Nguyen says, "Ifyou're a good Trust~es meeting, Nguyen says he does to have better chances for success under candidate, it shouldn't matter when you not foresee Notre Dame following the the new·system, increasing diversity. As apply/' .•trend; ~'Everyone in the Admissions Office 
I 

Bok said in the pre?s release,' '~Stµdents -,'There'.: i~, als,b: -~OP.~ th~t tbe fre11zy 9f: is: ~t peace..with the early I).oiibinding • · from more sophisticated backgrounds ahd 'the ·college admi'ssfons process will l;i~e •. progran:1." I hope we keep it," he says. And affluent high schools often apply early to minimized as a result of the move-·and while some have raised concerns about the 
· increase their chances of admission, while students will not feel that the second half probable increase in total applications to minority students and students from rural of their senior year is unimportant. As schools around the country as a result of areas·, other countries and high schools Jeremy R. Knowles, interim dean of the these decisions, Nguyen doesn't see that with fewer resources miss out." faculty of arts and sciences at Harvard, as a bad thing. Rather than increasing the 
Considering· Notre· Da'rile's strong said in the aforementioned. press.release; _-pressme. felt by high• sc::h9<.?I seniors, he academic ,reputation, it :is..natural to_ ask "These programs distofrt:heh1gh.schooi :· anticipates that the :rn6~e·will 'ertcuurage~, : , ··'. if this precedent might influence the experience by forcing both st11derits students, no fongerlocked into a particular 
. university's early action-process. Son and colleges to commit prematurely, institution, to look around at more schools, Nguyen, assistant director ofadmissions, based only upon the record at the end which will give them a better chance at says that neither the university nor its of the student's junior year. Moreover, finding the best fit. Instead ofeliminating applicants are likely to benefit from an students who are admitted early receive early acceptance programs altogether, elimination ofearly acceptances. Binding what often appears to be a 'free pass' for Nguyen suggests that more universities programs mean low-income and minority their second semester, sadly encouraging adopt a nonbinding early action program students don't have the opportunity them to disengage from their academic in lieu of binding programs. to compare financial packages among experience." AsfortheimplicationsthatHarvard'sand institutions, perhaps discouraging them In explaining Notre Dame's position, Princeton's decisions will have -on Notre from applying early and possibly putting Nguyen says that while "early decision Dame's applicant pool, it seems that Notre them at a disadvantage. This, however, is to improve a university's yield and Dame may stand to benefit. The decisions does not hold true for nonbinding have something in-pocket, early action create the potential for an influx of high­programs. John Etchemendy, provost is mostly a service to elite students." caliber applications submitted by students of Stanford University, wrote in an Though the program does make it who no longer have the assurance and Op-Ed piece in the September 27, 2006 slightly less burdensome for admissions time-frame of an early decision from the edition of The New York Times, "Students counselors by breaking up a workload that Ivy League. As far as Nguyen is concerned, accepted· in nonbinding programs can consisted of reading 12,800 applications · this would give Notre Dame the chance to and do compare aid packages from all the in the 2005-2006 recruiting season, the get the best applicant pool possible, raising m colleges to which they are admitted." real beneficiaries of the process are the its standards and, in turn, the university's 3w 
z

Nguyen_agrees. ":~arly ac::tion is.not a students. Nguyen says the reasoh Notre· academic reputation. "Notre Dame is in o 
· barrier. for us to low-income or minority· Dame provides this service is because it a good situation. We're not frying to be· ~ students. In fact, last year's early applicant encourages top students who might not another place. We just want to be a better ~ pool at ND had the highest ever number have applied otherwise to do so because ND," Nguyen says. 0 ~ 
5 OCT2006 

7••·······~.~;
. . tt&;~ IJ 
· ............... (~)Scho/asticNewsAnalysis 



Impotent Findings 
University nailed in new survey, but do the results stand up? 
• Daric SnyderIt's not hard to notice that the University of Notre Dame plays by a different set ofrules than a lot of other schools. Though unique in its deeply rooted Catholicism, Notre Dame competes with the highest caliber schools in the country. Unless sex is the topic. Then, things get awkward. A recent study conducted by Trojan condoms and Sperling's Best Places, an independent survey organization, ranked Notre Dame 99th out of 100 well-known schools in terms ofsexual health. The Trojan 
Sexual Health Report Card gave Notre Dame a failing GPA of 
0.0. Only one school in the . ., .-. survey, Yale University, 
SEXUALH notable for its annual Sex Week, received a perfect 
TCARD 
4.0. Other highly ranked 
.YALE schools included the IOWA University of Michi­
. . . 
·MICHIGAN •. gan, Stanford Univer­
• STANFORD·.·.·.•· •. · sity and Duke Univer­· OREGON. STATE sity. The University .use· of Southern Califor­
HARVARD nia ranked 29th with ··•.·.INDIANA 
a GPA of 2.4 and . GEORGETOWN. Harvard University placed 43rd with a 2.1. At the bottom of the rankings, Notre Dame was sandwiched between the University ofUtah at 98th and Brigham Young 
University, which placed last. The GPAs were decided by 
grades in seven categories in­cluding availability ofsexual health information online, sex/relationship columns in student publications, lecture and outreach programs, and sexual assault services, plus the availability of condoms, 

contraception and sexually transmitted infection (STI) testing. According to the study, Notre Dame and BYU failed in every category. 
Although the survey attempts to expose Notre Dame's shortcomings, are the results credible? At schools stiffed by the survey, questions are being asked about the methods and fl) agenda of the condom maker's research. "In our research, we ~w put ourselves in the p1ace of a student seeking information i'5 about sexual health, and we found it difficult to find this type ~ of information at a range of colleges throughout the country," 
~ said Bert Sperling of Sperling's Best Places in a press release. g Researchers simply searched university Web sites for informa­mon,assuming that today's university students would try to find 
00

I~~ IJ-00 
•••• 8 · 

information the same way. If the researchers could not easily find the information, the school's score suffered greatly. Many ofthe grades do not accurately reflect the services present at the schools in question. Purdue University received a mediocre 1.9 GPA. In the October 2nd Exponent, Purdue's student newspaper, a representative of the school's student wellness office explained they "distribute more than 20,000 free condoms to students each year." Yet like nearly three-fourths of the schools included in the study, Purdue completely failed in the condom availability category. Though the survey supposedly used a full grading scale, only about a quarter of the schools received an 'N in this category, and two schools earned a 'C.' 
Overall, the survey's grading scale provided no mercy. Even among the 12 schools that scored at least a GPA of 3.0, four received an 'F' in at least one category. State schools are also heavily represented, and among private schools, those with strong religious ties are scarce and positioned mostly at the bottom of the list. Georgetown University, the highest ranked of three Catholic schools on the survey, earned a 1.1 GPA and ranked 80th. Though more lax in its regulations pertaining to sex, Georgetown does not freely distribute contraception (instead, it refers interested students to off-campus resources). The school managed to earn a 'C' for condom distribution, though the only on-campus resource for free condoms is an unrecognized student group . 
Although Notre Dame explicitly prohibits unmarried stu­dents from sexual activity, there are some resources available to students. Off-campus sources can provide confidential STI testing, condoms and other contraception. The university flunked in the study's sexual assault services category, which was supposedly graded on the presence ofa sexual assault Web site, plus the availability ofsexual assault services, counseling and a 24-hour sexual assault hotline. While lacking a comprehensive Web site, Notre Dame does provide confidential services and counseling for assault victims and has a 24-hour hotline. With these resources available, it is unlikely that the "Catholics vs. Condoms" debate will have a definitive winner ... at least until the outcome of the Notre Dame vs. USC game is decided. 0 

5 OCT 2006 


LLI 

:c DomerDollars 
fJJ]lII!lif? 
. :I


I-
1~1:1 




@ 
lW:OtttE 
VAD:m))E

HUDDLEMart 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food.nd.edu 


Term Started 
: i
,, 
.: '~ '-~ 

Sub·ect Month Period 

1st w6ek 

2nd. Week 
3rd Week

;-'-------t-___:_::..:.:.:.::4~~~~~~ 
: ! 
. \ 
NAMES -: 2 -·. ,' ,
.. 
·:-..-·-+-.....-.,..i~~'-C:-·

t: ::: :I ~ '. .f ~t--t-~~,.Yf.+IJLJ:fl.-l+l:J+=,4-~0JJ~••U-..L.fJ.J_ 
. • ,If 




Iremember when I had my first professional interview for an internship last fall. Daunted yet prepared, I approached the recruiter with a resume, a cover letter and• an enthusiastic attitude. I watched as he scanned over my credentials and incredulously rolled his eyes. "I'll admit I never got grades this high in college, butthenagain, thatwaslike 15 years.ago and at another school, so who knows what this really means." I left the interview pondering that joking interjection. Does anyone really know what that means? It's hard to believe that the modern-day barriers of comparison between academic institutions could feel their effects within the last 15 years or that we are now incapable of comparing· transcripts of students from different universities as well as from different periods of time. But the issue is even more complicated. Can we even compare students ·within the · university? Withthe complexity of the grading system varying from department to department at Notre Dame, grades that are comparable for 3.30 the College ofArts & Letters 
3;20.

might not be comparable for the College of Engineering. 
Inwriting this article, Scholastic 
contacted the(·registrar offices 
at each ofthe top 50 universities 
aslistedbyU.S.Newsand,WorldReport. 
Without exception, each of these =50 universities declined to release their grade point average (GPA) statistics. While this eerily mimics the behavior of an "academic cartel," the reasons are quite clear. Major universities do not know how to address these rising 
.n'umbers and; fear misinterpretation ····on grade compression. "What actually of their· grade• statistics. This lack of happens. in academic ·•grade inflation, 
5OCT2006 
information, however, poses problems for the academic community. 
It is difficult for universities to set a grading scale that gives their students an equal opportunity at employment or graduate placement without knowing the comparative scales of other universities. Thus, "grade inflation" occurs much the same as economic inflation (a reactionary effect from expected increases in prices within a market). Ifone institution has no basis of comparison, it is difficult to avoid raising its standards to meet the expected rise in standards of competing universities. 
Cumulative GPAs at Notre Dame 
Although a popular term for this phenomenon, the idiom "grade inflation" 
-is ·reviled by college administrators. Kenneth Sayre, a professor of .philosophy, describes it rather as "grade compression." In the Viewpoint section of the September 14, 2005 edition of The Observer,. Sayre explained his views 

wartime drafts. This was the casein the 1940s, when the:firstaccounts of grade inflation were reported because of World War II. 
The beginning of the modern rise in GPAs came from those dodging the Vietnam War in the late 1960s. Administrators across the country used theVietnamWaras an effective marketing tool to promote their universities. In order to fulfill their promises ofkeeping 
11 ......... 
ScholasticCoverStoryCl}••••••,•••••••! 
!  
however, is that 'A: remains the top  I  
grade toward which the others converge.  
Where a group of students once would  
have been evaluated across a scale ranging ·  
from 'F' through 'A,' grades rise until a  
comparable group is evaluated in shades  
ofjust 'B' and 'A."'  
Meanwhile, Vice President and  
Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs prefers  
the term "grade validity." Jacobs says  
that the truthfulness of the grade is  
really what is in question. Ifa grade does  
not reflect a student's understanding of  
the course material accurately, then the  
grade's validity is doubtful.  
According to Dean Mark  
Roche of the College of Arts  
& Letters, grade inflation  
causes problems in graduate  
placement. "[Because of the  
lack of differentiation,] there  
becomes more dependence on  
GRE scores, MCAT scores,  
LSAT scores and letters of  
recommendation, so faculty are  
essentially deferring evaluation  
to other measures that might  
be less equipped," Roche says.  



·············· (~)Scho/asticCoverStory 
Average GPA by Colle_ge (2005) 

3.550 -,--....,.....~------..----,--.....,..-,--...,.....,----,-...,,......,.,.,---, 
3;500 -l-"-....-,.'-----'--,-----'---'--..;......;-'--.,.....'-',.,.-,-....,.....---,-"--'-'--:,-'-.-'-o-----i 
3.450 
~ 
c, 3.400 
Q) 
Cl 
ra 
Qj 3.350 
::,, <( 
3:30() 3.250 3;200. 
Arts &Letters Busine~s 

students out of the war, higher grades were distributed, and average GPAs at these institutions rose by 0.29 grade points in just five years. 
The spike in grades from the Vietnam War set a continuous national trend. Accordingto StuartRojstaczer, a professor emeritus of geology, environment and engineering at Duke University, as well as a grade inflation expert, the average GPA of a graduating student has risen by 0.26 nationally and by 0.40 for private institutions in the years since the war. Overall, this translates into a 0.146 increase per decade. 
Notre Dame's grade inflation has been heavy as oflate. In the last 10 years, the average GPA has climbed from 3.181 to 
3.425 -an increase of 0.244, or nearly one-tenth of a point higher than the averag·e national grade inflation rate. While much of this can be attributed to the rising admissions standards of the university, itis difficult to make a perfect comparison because of the re-centering ofSATscores in 1996, which is reflected in 2000's data. 
A Brighter Tomorrow 
Every year, Notre Dame students are greeted with the all-too-familiar The Observer headline, "Entering Class is Smartest, Most Diverse in School History." Certainly, the average SAT and ACT scores at Notre Dame have been consistently rising, but does this necessarily mean that the average GPA a Notre Dame student earns should also rise? The answer lies inhowtheuniversity defines its evaluation standards. 
......... 12 

~cience Engineering A(chitecture 
SOURCE: University Factbook of Institutional Research 
Jacobs says that the grading scale should be chosen with regard to time­sensitive comparison. "The type of student that we recruit is different from one year to the next, and in general, the quality tends to be rising," he says. Thus, if the grading standards in a course for one year are applied to the next, there mightbe an increase in the overall grades because the average student is naturally more capable. 
One could also argue, however, that the grades should be applied to compare students within the same year to one another. Joshua Kaplan, a professor of political science, believes that courses need to adjust to the ability of their students. "We are not judging students today by standards we applied 20 years ago," Kaplan says. "Theworld is different; education is different. As [we] update our courses, we thinkabout grading a little bit differently." 
Average SAT by College {2005) 
1400 ,--------,---------------,--------, 1380 -t-----------'--c==--'--...,..,,..., 
1360  
~  1340  
g> 1320  
:,!<  1300 1280  
1260  
1240 +-~~~----.-­ 
Arts & Letters  Business  Science  Engineering  · Architecture  
College  
SOURCE: University Factbook of Institutional Research  

5OCT2006 
While this debate is at the heart of grade inflation and is not addressed all that often, its effects are far reaching, encompassing the entire student body. This time-sensitive comparison dichotomy leads to the argument ofhow grading policies should be composed. If one class is compared to the next, some uniform policy has to be set in an absolute scale, but if each year acts as its own independent entity, then the comparison needs to readjust for each class, establishing a relative scale. 


A University Divided 
Almost all of Notre Dame's courses 
operate on one ofthe two aforementioned 
grading schemes -the absolute scale 
or the relative scale. Both have their 
merits and drawbacks, butare universally 
accepted as the two best methods available 
in higher education. 
The absolute scale is most often seen 
in the College of Arts & Letters and the College of Science. The objective of the absolute scale is to set forth course expectations, set absolute standards for grades (such as 93 percent and above for an W) and evaluate students according to these preset standards. There is some room for adjustment to standardize the grades, but for the most part the grades are absolute-as the name suggests. This system is praised because it makes the learning objectives clear and evaluates free of competition between classmates, thus fostering an academic community rather than an independent sense of achievement. Unfortunately, this scale also fails to differentiate the top achievers from the rest of the pack, since every ·student is capable ofgetting an 'N in the 



ScholasticCoverStory (~) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 


course. It is also identified as the primary 
cause of grade inflation at Notre Dame. 
The relative scale is used in the College 
of Engineering and in the accountancy 
and finance departments ofthe Mendoza 
College of Business. Under this system, 
a certain target GPA is set from the 
beginning of the course (such as a 3.00, 
or a 'B' average in the course) and then 
grades are distributed to average out to 
that target GPA. This system manages 
to separate the high achievers from 
the low achiev~rs but can also create 
an atmosphere of competition among 
students. 
Also a professor of chemistry, Jacobs opposes the relative scale because it increases competition among students. "I want every student to work toward a set of standards that I set forth in the beginning," Jacobs says. "I don't want 
to say this is a kind of 'dog-eat-dog' environment where you have to climb to the top of the pile in order to get an 'A: [... ] That leads to behaviors that are 
5 OCT 2006 
contrary to what we try to nurture here at Notre Dame." 
The School of Architecture tends to use both scales since some of its course materialis similar to artstudio and history, while other material leans more toward civil engineering. This wide breadth of course material is also a plausible explanation for the comparatively low grades in architecture, since few students are capable of mastering all aspects of the field. 
Because ofthe inconsistent application of grading scales between university departments, it has been difficult to compare the transcripts of students in different courses ofstudy. The effects of the disparate grading systems are evident in the average GPAs compared by field of study. Arts & Letters and Science students average 3.486 and 3.476 GPAs, respectively, while Business, Architecture and Engineering students average a significantly lower 3.332, 3.309 and 3.302, respectively. 
The Rev. Richard S. Bullene, C.S.C., the assistant dean of the School of Architecture, offers another explanation. 
"If you look at the kinds of high school preparation that students have, [...] the qualifications that get you into Notre Dame suit you better for an Arts & Letters education or a Science education," Bullene says. "Very little of high school directly applies to some of the specific things [ done in a professional program]." 
Roche believes that Arts & Letters grades are influenced by class size, which is generally smaller in liberal arts programs. "Ifyou have a small class," he says, "it's very likely that the students are more active in the learning process." These smaller classes allow for more feedback between students and professors, which allows students to reach learning objectives with greater ease. 
Bullene also notes that the number of electives taken by each college is vastly dissimilar. Professional programs like 
13 ......... 


··············· ([!Scho/asticCoverStory 
Architecture, Business and Engineering have more required courses, which cuts down on their elective credit hours. In turn, this means that students in these programs have less of a chance to cater to their individual strengths than their Arts & Letters peers. 
While these grading policies can explain the gap between the liberal arts studies and the professional programs, they do not necessarily explain all ofthe inflationary grades seen in the last decade at Notre Dame. Two types of pressures placed on university 

have to remind [professors] that they have a full range of grades. Use them," he says. 
. As long as the tuition continues to rise, so will the expectations for the students. Unfortunately, the only way that a student's education is evaluated is through GPA. So in this sense, the GPAis 
· becoming more and more costly, and the administration acknowledges that. 
Meanwhile, the emphasis on teacher-course evaluations (TCEs) has dramatically increased in the last decade. 
an effect on grading. "The perception among many of our faculty is that [TCEs and grading] are correlated," he says. "As long as that perception is there it does create an inflationary pressure. Professors want to achieve higher TCE scores and thus grade more softly." 
Among other internal pressures on grade inflation is the ability of students to drop courses late in the semester. ·Since most Notre Da:me students come in with advanced placement' credit, they 
are able to drop a course without any 
ramifications. By and 


administrators fill in Outflows Greater Than 5~ of College Enrollment at Ent,y large, the reason that the missing linkbetween Cohort Entering as First-Time, Ar.st-Year Students In Fall 1999 students drop courses is the old and the new. One because of a low grade. is pressures from within 
"We always ask a student the university, and the [ ... ]why they are dropping 
otheris pressures coming the course," Kaplan says. from outside programs "Students usually come in and a new social order. with one explanation, but ifyou probe a little bit, it's Internal Pressures the grade." In the last 10 years, a ·Inthe absolute grading 
number of things have scale, there· is simply an also been rising at the attrition of the bottom university other than of the class. To Kaplan, grades -most notably, this means that very few the tuition. The cost of students' get 'C's any a Notre Dame education more, causing the grade has doubled since 1995, compression that Sayre and the increase in cost refers to. Since there is directly results in an absolutely no blemish increase in one's devotion on a student's transcript to his or her grades. for dropping, a course, 
"A major factor is the the students are open to growing conception interpret this as a free in the last decade that pass. "The. message is the college degree is a if you're getting a 'C,' commodity, a product; don't try to raise your it's something that grade, just try to erase it," people pay for," Sayre Kaplan says. 
says. "The quality ofthe product in the academic setting has to do with the grade 
point average. With increasing college 
expenses, the people who are paying for it are demanding a better product, higher grades. There is this pressure that we feel 
not to disappoint our clients." 
This leniency on the part ofprofessors allows the slippery slope of grading that Sayre mentioned in his editorial in The Observer. If professors feel that they cannot use 'C's,· 'D's and 'F's, then the evaluation curve is really colilpressed 
between 3.00 and4.00. Bullene addresses this within the School ofArchitecture. "We sometimes 

While TCEs provide an invaluable service to the academic community by removing less pertinent sections from 
· courses and counteracting the occasional tyrannical professor, it also puts a lot of pressure on· the faculty to adjust to students' wants and needs. "We have the faculty evaluating the students and the students evaluating the faculty;it's a 'tit for tat' thing," Sayre says. "Faculty themselves are under pressure to perform in a: certain way in order to get tenure and in order to: get a promotion." Jacobs believes'that there isn't a·direct correlation between grading and TCEs, but he does believe that the TCEs have 
•Meanwhile, the relative grading scale faces a real dilemma when the -lower-achieving students drop the course. At midsemester break, professors generally let students know where they stand in. the course. If the professor has already given warning as to what grade to expect and then loses the bottom portion of the class, he or she faces a real problem: 
"Do I hold fast to the curve and turn a studentwhowastold"they have a ':B' into a 'C;' or do I allow the ·curve-ti:>'.shift up and thereby inflate the grades?" This is the probable cause of grade inflation in fields such as accountancy, finance and engineering. 
5OCT2006 

, . -. ... -/ . . . -.
: I 

External Pressures 
Inaddition to internal pressures, grades at the university are affected by external factors. Within the last several years, the most prominent ofthese factors has been the socioeconomic conundrum know'n as the "Brain Drain." Made famous by The New York Times columnist Thomas 
L. Friedman's book "The World is Flat," the "Brain Drain" is when a society has more educated people than jobs for educated people, forcing an emigration of intellectual talent from their homeland to a job-rich nation like the United States. With this immigration to the United States, American students are facing a much more diverse and competitive job pool than ever before. Because of this, there is an added pressure on all students at Notre Dame to continue their education to separate themselves from this foreign work force. 
The emphasis on attending graduate school forces many students to achieve higher grades than previous generations. Under an absolute grading scale with reasonably attainable goals, this added motivation will push a majority of students to earn 'A?s or 'A-'s. 
Since medicine is one ofthe most stable professions in the job market, the clearest example of this is within the College of Science. Notre Dame's preprofessional studies program is among the largest in the country, ranking 19th in size among undergraduate institutions. With the medical school admission rate of Notre Dame students rising (nearly 80 percent at this point) along with GPAs, there 
ScholasticCove'rStory (~) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

is added pressure on the university :t,o Finding an_ Answer . , ..-_... ­maintain its prestige in the medicalwofH _,, 'Drifortunately, the solutions to grade··.' 
Since GPA factors heavily into medical schools' decision processes, one of the simplest methods to continue Notre Dame's success would be to allow grade inflation to continue. 
Meanwhile, the School ofArchitecture faces very different external pressures from the National Architecture Accrediting Board (NAAB). The NAAB reviews every architecture program in the country every six years. Unlike the pressure in the College of Science, the School of Architecture is pressured into maintaining lower grades because of this program disclosure. The board asks for a comprehensive portfolio for each class administered by the school, which includes the best work turned in by a student and the worst work that was given a passing grade. For this reason, the school must fail more work than other colleges within the university in order to maintain accreditation. 
The School of Architecture also feels pressure because of its limited housing and studio contracts in the mandatory, year-long Rome program. The school hopes to have a sophomore class ofaround 48 students, but this is not always the case. Bullene attests that the architecture program does notuse "weed out" courses to cut the class down to 48, but does use courses that accurately reflect the amount of work an architect should expect. "[But] if we have too many students going to Rome, that's our problem, not theirs," Bullene says. 

5 OCT2006 
inflation are not that obvious. As of now, the university has established a subcommittee under the undergraduate studies branch of the Academic Council that will investigate grade inflation in the coming year. As the chair of the committee, Jacobs will investigate the probable causes of grade inflation and how to subdue them without overly affecting the student body. 
"Rightnow, wearelookingtounderstand the issue better," Jacobs says. "We may make recommendations to the departments, and we could take it to the level of changing some of the policies at the university." 
Jacobs noted that the university is looking to further implement a better teacher-course evaluation process, including a comprehensive evaluation of teaching that focuses less on grades. The committee is also looking to use peer evaluations, so that professors get feedback from fellow professors who would probably be in a better position to determine if their course objectives are properly aligned and if the course material is up-to-date. 
As it stands, there doesn?t seem to be any emphasis on reconciling the grading systems between the liberalarts studies and the professional programs, but the necessity of a clear and reliable grading system will make it at least a topic of discussion in future committee meetings. Many have thoughts on how to fix this grading dilemma, but nobody has.a perfect system. Perhaps it's best to thinkof things with some flexibility but a clear understanding of what the grade really means. 
"[Instead of a university policy], perhaps they can suggest a lens with which to view grading," Bullene says. "I look at a 'B+' as honors, an 'A-' as high honors and an 'N. as highest honors. In doing so, the grades accurately reflect the students' abilities." And isn't that the purpose of a grading system in the first place? 0 
~ 
~ 
c:: 
w 
>
0 
0 
u 
~ 
0 
I 
u 
CJ) 
15 ......... 



·· · · · · · ·· · · · · · @Scholastic Culture 
PERSONAL 







PERSPECTIVES 
Students with disabilities have a new way to share experiences 
•Sarah Barrett 
H undredsofmembersoftheNotreDamecommunity 
-both students and faculty -are united by a 
difference, but rarely know each other or can be identified as part of a minority. These people have a disability and face unique obstacles every day. A person's disability can be a major component of their identity; they will never be able to takes,~a.ny forrris, [ ..1so1na11y people claim that, 'learning disorders don't really exist,' or 'he [orshe] is_11~ing it as an excuse,"'Morehouse says. . 
'The employment,.,of negative stereotypes and frequent misunderstandings lay the foundation for Perspective's secondary· goaL to educate ·and raise awareness·. on campus. 
!I 

I w f1, · Cl:
~­
..5 '[ ~ , ~ 
1 1 
; / 0 
t : ! g 
dissociate themselves from it. As a member ofa minority, these . • Perspectives' lrives to get across one central idea: ."We are not individuals may face daily alienation and misunderstanding from disabled students; we are students with a disability." Second-year their peers and mentors as they fight to surmount the obstacles . graduate student James Fetter is legally bli~d and has found Notre 
they encounter in and out of the classroom. 
This fall, the university opened the Sara Bea Learning ,Center for Students with Disabilities. The center provides a variety of services 
. ' 
·. · ·· 
'''I also wishto he taken seriously as a scholar 
· · , 
rather than as a b!i:nd person who, by some 
· 
a.mazing and mysterious process, was able to 
be independ,eht."' 
r~•.-·.
' ,
' , j I . 
j . .•....••. 16 ' 

I 
to meet the needs of students with disabilities. The center is teaming up;with the equally new club 
-Perspectives -to provide students with disabilities "a place to caHtheir own," according totli.e' group's mission. Perspectives intends to build a supportive s,oSial network where students can vent, discuss and educate./Wbile each disability represented on campus -'---psychological, hearing, visual, physical and learning-has inherent symptomatic differences, Perspectives 
··encourages commqn1cation, showing its members that, despite their differences(i:hey share similar experiences. 
\i\Thile these students deal with difficult personal struggles, their dialogue within Perspectives also focuses on their mission to educate and raise awareness of disabilities found within the N:oi:re Dame community. The emphasis of Perspectives' discussion, as the education of their peers and mentors, is · derived from a shared frustration with being misunderstood, or 'not understood at all. While these students can learn ways to meet the challenges oftheir disabilities, their diagnosis remains. "I cannot erase it; it is mine forever," says Brittany Morehouse, a 2001 graduate diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), which is characterized by symptomatic inattention. Morehouse expresses her frustration with her peers' disregard of ADHD's legitimacy. "Misunderstanding 
-James Fetter Fetter expresses 
frustration at his professors' tendencies to treat him more as a "blind student" than as a student who happens to be blind. 
"Professors tend to take a greater interest in the way I convert my materials than they do in my actual academic work," Fetter says. "Although I do not mind educating people about these things, I also wish to be taken seriously as a scholar rather than as a blind person who, by some amazing and mysterious process, was able to be indepenQent." Outside of the classroom, Fetter has found that often times people do not know how to interact with him, so they resort to speaking through a sight-efficient other, as if he has a hearing problem. "I recognize that these people are not showing me any intentional disrespect, but it would be preferable if they would recognize up front that I am able to speak for myself in these situations," he says. 
Until this year, students and faculty members with disabilities had no organized means of meeting each other. With the construction of the new center for students with disabilities and the formation ofPerspectives, the students and faculty who were once alienated because of their disabilities are offered a place to share their struggles and provide each other with tips to make obstacles ~ore manageable. 
5 OCT 2006. 
Dam.~ generally to he, ..a very accommodating place. None­theless, he has experienced discrimination both socially and academic a 11 y. Within the c 1a s s r o o m , 
. , . . . -_. . /· . . .


fighting irish 
n the airdaily, 10 am -1:30 am 
ow broadcasting all nd football games live 
· ttp://wvfi.nd.edu 




University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 


I,_ 
( 
S: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
-reduced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
1' 
I , 
i 
i­
2004lndianaC~llegiatePress SCHO·La.STIC
n News Magazine of the Year 



Scho/asticCu0lture @ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
REMEMBERING A PROFESSOR, 
HoN.ORING A FRIEND 
JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD MEMORIAL CONCERT 
"How sweet the 
moonlight sleeps upon 
this bank! I Here will 
we sit and let the sounds 
ofmusic I Creep in our 
,ears: I Soft stillness 
and the night I Become 
the touches ofsweet 
harmo72Y. " 
•Ann-MarieWoods 
n the fall of 2002, music profes­
I
sor John Riley-Schofield arrived at 
Notre Dame, and his presence in both the music department and through­out the greater Notre Dame community was felt immediately. Serving as a visit­ing assistant professor of voice, teaching classes in vocal pedagogy, opera scene and vocal performance techniques, and working as Notre Dame's director of opera, Riley-Schofield significantly af­fected the growth and improvement of the university's music program. 
Born in Bradford, England, Riley-Scho­field developed his passion for music at a young age while studying piano and vo­cal performance. He eventually received advanced degrees from three universities, including the· Royal Academy of Music in London. His musical career thrived in Europe as the baritone travelled and performed with the English National Opera and the Netherlands Opera before accepting a position-at Notre Dame four years ago. 
SOCT2006 
In the days after Riley-Schofield was 
tragically killed in a car accident last September at the age of 51, the faculty in the music department saw the need for a tribute concert, an idea that came to fruition on September 24th after a year of planning. Georgine _Resick, a profes­sor ofvoice who shared a "collaborative relationship" with Riley-Schofield during his time at the university, was an integral part of organizing and preparing for the event. The music department contacted many former and current students and faculty to contribute to the memorial. "The concertwas a labor oflove, and I was very moved and proud ofthe department," 
Resick says. 
The concert featured seven faculty members and approximately 100 students, both current and alumni. The University of Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, Chorale, Chamber Players and soloists took the stage in the Leighton Concert Hall to perform pieces by some of Riley­Schofield's favorite composers, includ­ing Ralph Vaughan Williams, Franz Schubert, Robert Schumann and Richard Wagner. 
Of all the performances given Sunday afternoon, Vaughan Williams' "Serenade to Music" directed by Daniel Stowe served as the greatest "tribute to John," according to one of Riley-Schofield's former students, Brandon Hollihan ('05). Vaughan Williams' arrangement of text from Shakespeare's "Merchant ofVenice" was a fitting tribute: "How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! / Here will we sit and let the sounds of music / Creep in our ears: / Soft stillness and the night/ Become the touches of sweet harmony." 
As several of his former students, most 
of whom traveled some distance to 
participate in the memorial, performed 
"Serenade to Music," it was evident that he was more than just a professor to these future music scholars. "He always worked for his students and cared a great deal about them," Hollihan says. In addi­tion to providing closure for the students and faculty alike, the concert gave those who knew him an opportunity to express their gratitude for his dedication, support and love. 
The impact Riley-Schofield had on his students and colleagues continues on in their hearts and music. Lauren Price ('05), a soloist in the concert, says, "It felt like he was very much a part ofthe event, like he was going to walk in at any moment." At the conclusion of the concert, the audience, his students and his colleagues were left with a short recorded perfor­mance of the exuberant baritone whose voice brought warmth and joy to so many people's hearts. 0 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •@ Scho/asticCulture 
Ifa couple weekends from now you are stumbling down the first floor hallway of Alumni Hall and end up in a room filled with people dressed in camouflage fishing tackle vests, there is no need to be alarmed -you just happened to have found your way to the upcoming "Bass Pros and Bait Shop Hoes" 
I'
I: party. You might assume that this was 
.I like any other party where outfits set the theme, but in the case of 133 Alumni, it would still be a themed party even if no 
one dressed up. 
When you. enter the home of senior Ryan Larson and junior Mike Schubert, you see everything at once. Almost every nook and cranny of the room has something related to nature in it, whether it is a carving ofa fish or a pair of antlers, 
i'~ 
l )......... 22 

and really gives the room a "Let's go camping!" feel. There are hanging antlers with fake doves perched on them, a neon orange poster with a picture of a deer under the words "Welcome Hunters" and brightly colored curtains with pheasants on them. It is like stepping inside an issue ofField and Stream. 
There is one thing, however, that seems strangely missing -there is no actual deer head mounted to the wall. Pictures of deer, antlers from deer and even deer figurines are present, but there is no real mounting. 
"We didn't want to get fined for nailing it into the wall," Larson says. "But you know what? I think we may get one next semester, anyways. I do, after all, have five in my bedroom at home." 

Despite the lack of an authentic deer head, the room stands strong as it is. All the walls are adorned with outdoors posters and hunting and fishing paraphernalia. Among all the posters, the one that stands out the most is that ofthe 
"Bow Hunter," depicting the outline of a deer with a drawing of the deer's liver, lungs and heart in red inside. 
"[I] love this poster," Larson says. 
"Bow hunting is my favorite way to hunt." He continues on, explaining that the place to aim is where the front tip of the heart and lungs are touching. 
"Yeah, and' we can even practice in our room,'? Schubert adds as he turns toward a bright yellow Deer Crossing sign that looks like it has been pulled off the side of the road. He ,then pulls out a Nerf 
5 OCT2006 

SHOOTING RANGE Ryan Larson shows offhis hunting skills with a Nerfgun. 
gun from his desk and aimsfor the sign. Four Styrofoam darts later, Schubert and 
· Larson begin to analyze which shot was the best. The darts sticking to the deer on the sign are all in the exact place the poster had highlighted as the place to shoot for a kill.Next to the signis a row of little stuffed opossums that are hanging from the bunk in front of Schubert's baseball caps. 
The center of their room is very spacious with a flannel couch and a recliner set on top of a leaf-patterned carpet. Their television and ridiculously extensive DVD collection are framed with cute lights shaped like bass fish, and there is a little moose statue on one ofthe shelves nearby. A cut-out ofan eagle with a six-foot wingspan is taped on the ceiling above the sitting area. 
Hunting is Larson's forte, whereas Schubert is more of a fish~rman. Both were raised with a 
hung pictures of himself holding good­sized bass, and he says some ofthem were caught in St. Mary's Lake. Larson has pictures ofhimself with the many deer he has killed throughout the years. Some of them are even in a deer picture frame. He says that he killed one of the deer about 10 miles northwest of campus. 
"March through May are great months," Larson says. "That's when we can start going on our hikes through the woods around St. Mary's to find the antlers that the deer have shed." He points out that they have at least five of the antlers they discovered on their searches in the room, some of which are hanging from the beds while others grace the top ofthe refrigerator. 
With all the hunting references and pictures ofthem holding their game, one might think that the room comes off as a tad unwelcoming, but it gives off the 


passion for the outdoors. They say that they actually have no problem keeping up their hobbies here at school, despite the fact that most people don't thinkthatNptFe,. · 
·Dame arid the great 
outdoors go hand-in­
hand. Schubert has HUNTINGATTIRE A hunter can never have too many hats. 
5OCT2006 
Scho/asticC~lture @· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
completely opposite vibe. Along with all the posters and pictures, they have cute wooden signs with sayings on them, such as "Eat ... Sleep ... Go Fishing" and "A hunter lives here with the dear ofhis life." An oar is mounted above the door, and a branch with tackle on it hangs above the mirror. Overall, it makes you feel as ifyou are staying in a cozy wilderness lodge. All they need is a fireplace. 
"Nature's relaxing," Larson says. "So if you have a bad day or have a bad conversation, you come back to the room and once the door closes behind you, it's like you're back out in the woods; you just get reminded ofthe beauty around you." 
Put simply, 133 Alumni blows other dorm rooms away. Not only did they stick with a theme, they cover all aspects 
-carpet, curtains, lights and basically anything having to do with hunting or fishing. So ifyou are ever walking down one of the hallways ofAlumni, now you will know that behind Mike Schubert and Ryan Larson's door there is more than just a normal dorm room; there is a little slice ofnature. 0 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • @ Scho/asticCulture 

NO SLEEP DEPT. 
"ARKrE" ANasT
"T 
his isn't a fish tank." Please don't approach the ground level windows of Bond Hall 
to tap on the glass. Judging by the handmade sign hastily taped to one window, it disturbs the fragile species known as the second-year architect. 
Atfirstsight, thespacethatapproximately 50 sophomores call their second home is reminiscent of a laboratory. Huddled under bright, magnifying desk lamps, stationed at sea foam green tables, the group appeared to be the subject ofsome strange experiment. Apparently, they sensed the presence of an intruder; as I walked down the aisle, eyes blurred by lack of sleep and eraser dust sized me up. 
"You have to be crazy to be in this major," sophomore Laura Hattrup said. 
The vestiges of regular all-nighters are visible all over the studio. On the chalkboard, someone had written, 
"Remember kids ... you can always 
major in accounting." Empty Starbucks Frappuccino bottles and crumpled drafting paper were the most common refuse covering the desks, but there were also numerous baby food jars. "People buy baby food and eat it so they can use 
········· 24 
the jars [for watercolors]. We had apples and chicken, and that was kind ofweird," Hattrup said. Obviously, early morning delirium had taken hold of these arkies already this semester. "We were in here until 10:30 in the morning before the Michigan game," Hattrup said. 
Behind my left shoulder, a pair of eyes peeked over the top ofa cubicle. I turned around, and they darted back down, only to creep back up seconds later. "He always does that," Hattrup said, laughing. Moments later, death metal blasted from behind his cubicle walls. In the otherwise quiet room, no one seemed fazed. 
While workers plugged into iPods were sequestered toward the back of the room, a group formed around Hattrup's table to ridicule David Hasselhoff's music video on YouTube. "It's a combination of neat freaks and crazy people," Hattrup said. The group was ready to regale me with stories from last year in the Brownson Hall studio. "Pretty much anything funny that happened, you can't write about in Scholastic," someone chimed in. The group laughed, and I avoided delving further into whatever potentially incriminating behavior took place. 
Was the move from Brownson to Bond this semester positive? "You start to feel more a part of the school since the fourth and fifth years are here," Hattrup says. 
"They come in sometimes and check on our projects," sophomore Jess Fitzpatrick said. "And we have a lot more room here." The general feeling toward Brownson was less than positive. "Last year it [the studio] started to smell like a pet store. Wet watercolor paper smells like crap," Hattrup said. 
Around 11 p.m., a war broke out b'etween two students. A ball of tracing paper sailed overhead, hitting its target. She retaliatedmoments later; her weapon was a quickly crafted ball of masking tape. Struck, her opponent exclaimed, 
"You made this? I thought you were going to put rocks in it. Or spikes." His counterattack missed the original target, startling an innocent bystander. "Is this part of the :war? I'm bonus points?" the startlee wanted to know. 
Despite the familial feel in the second­year studio, the group explained that theft does happen. Everyone recalled when a missing component of a project was found in the trash under a banana peel. Still, 
5 OCT2006 
Hattrup makes a point about the positive, collaborative nature in studio. "We help each other out. That's what's different about this major." 
A few arkies left on a Starbucks run around 11:30 p.m., while others trickled' into begin a long night ofwork. I made my way toward the door as some unwelcome spectators appeared. "Look, there are people in the window!" Looking up from their drafting tables, the second-years tried to make out-faces in the dark. "We don't even know those people!" A wave of annoyance swept the room. "Can we make a sign that says 'Read the Sign'?" 
-Regina Gesicki 
CHIPOTLE 
BuRRITO NIRVANA? 
"s
o wha.t, exactly, is a chipotle?" Standing in line on the second day of Chipotle's Michiana · existence, I heard more than one customer ask just where the restaurant's name comes from (a spicy red pepper used in Mexican cooking). The cost to obtain one of the much coveted burritos? About an hour long wait ... at least for the first few days. But a week later the line was still out the door. Observing a sign hanging inthe window that reads, "Our pigs don't get antibiotics, added growth hormones or mulligans," a Chipotle devotee still waiting outside took a poll of his surrounding friends inquiring whether or not-the "no mulligan" policy means that ifpigs aren't killed in the first slaughter attempt, they aren't used for Chipotle meat. The only response was a look resulting from extreme hunger and anger with the queue. "I've only had a Snickers and a Milk Chug all day, man," a companion said. "I'm starving for this stuff.". Other students standing in line took a more practical approach to the wait. "Let's get a burrito box for our dorm party tomorrow," one student mused, sporting a red Chipotle hat offered on the infamous . "Free Burrito Day." Another group argued over whose turnitwas to buy chips for the table, frequently forgetting that Chipotle 
is a family restaurant when choosing words for their debate. The families didn't 
5 OCT 2006 
seem to mind, though. Young parents 
held babies and toddlers milled around their parents' feet. 
Finally, we reach the outer entrance of the unassuming edifice. A greeter, who referred to himself as Chipotle's recruitment coordinator, was there holding the door open and conversation ensued about current national Chipotle locations· and those that are scheduled to come. "Is one coming to St. Louis?" one anxious student asked. "No, not yet." A look of sincere rejection crept across the student's face. "How about Providence?" "Actually, we're planning to open one there soon. Plans are being made for it." The building itself is small and unflattering. Cranberry paint covers the interiors with metal and wood still visible through the ceiling. Tunes from Eric Clapton and The Who emerge from the speakers, interweaving with the voices ofthe queue. 
After an hour of frivolous conversation and little-to­ScholasticCul'ture @· · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. \ 
"Get this man whatever he wants," the man ordered aloud to the rest ofthe line. 
"This kid's a Cubs fan!" Upon completing my order and reaching the cashier, the Cubs fan student remarked to the cashier that "You guys need to take Domer Dollars." The cashier merely smiled, not completely understanding what Domer Dollars are or why they're necessary. 
As my party and I delved into our burritos, another Domer squeaked through the growing line to greet one of my companions. "Hey man, what are you doing here?" my friend asked. 
"We're meeting here for Mock Trial." My friend only chuckled in response, sweat emerging under his eyes from the spices. 
-Michael O'Connor 

no real amusement, we reached the assembly line of Chipotle employees. In the background, I saw a man over the grill, while another chopped onions. The backs oftheir shirts read, "Master 0' The Grill." I reached the first station -a man decorated with tattoos on his arms and sporting an Under Armour cap on his head took my order. 
"Still pretty busy, huh?" I asked pointl~ssly, trying to be polite and to make conversation. Looking up directly at me with a grin on his face, he said with a cheery voice, "Yes, we are. But it's going well," and continued to make the burrito. 
Next to me, an ND student asked the next employee for chicken on his burrito. "Chicken!" he sang 'Out loudly, clearly 
w proud of his customer's 
0: :::, !:i i
choice. He took the time 
:::, i 
u·
to scout out the youth and u acknowledged his Cubs hat. ~ 
:s
''All this for aburrito?!" 
0 
I 
u 
(J) 
25 ......... 

i· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0ScholasticSports 
i 
Sportsmanship and Post-game Antics 
•Megan Teigen 
When Boston University announced in September that it would no longer 
tolerate racist, sexist or obscene language at sporting events, students and fans were 
shocked. Kendall Lyons, a Boston University sophomore, called it an infringement 
on our freedom of speech. "Sports won't be fun anymore," he said. 
A similar sentiment is evident in the controversy surrounding recent flag­
plantings by NCAA football teams. After the practice was banned in several 
conferences last year, fans complained that the new rule took the fun out of post­
game celebrations. The issue made headlines again in the week preceding this 
year's Notre Dame-Michigan State matchup. 
Have profanities and planting flags become just another part of college sports -as many college football fans suggest -or is the attention given to antics 
outside the game overshadowing the games themselves? And what are we to 
think of the players and coaches who encourage their fans to focus on these out­
of-game quarrels? 
The Big Ten banned flag-planting last year after two incidents in three weeks. 
On September 17, 2005, Michigan State celebrated a 44-41 overtime victory 
over Notre Dame by planting its flag at the 35-yard line in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Three Saturdays later Minnesota did the same after upsetting Michigan in Ann 
Arbor. The SEC also banned the practice after police stopped Georgia players 
from carrying their flag onto the field at Tennessee's Neyland Stadium. 
The bans have not erased the problem, though. After the Irish rallied to beat 
Michigan State this year, three Spartan players hurried to midfield to guard it 
against a possible Notre Dame retaliation. On Saturday, after Illinois defeated 
the Spartans 23-20 with a last-second field goal, a skirmish broke out as Illinois 
players tried to plant their :flag on Michigan State's field. Punches were thrown 
as Spartan players fought to defend the "S," but in his postgame press conference 
Michigan State Head Coach John L. Smith told reporters that "their [Illini] 
deserved to plant the flag." 
At the same time, Illinois Head Coach Ron Zook was apologizing for his players' 
post-game conduct. "It's part oflearning how to win," Zook said. "We'll learn how 
to win. If! had seen it, I would have grabbed it [the flag]. I'll deal with it Monday;'' 
Zook clearly saw the skirmish as detracting from a big Illinois win -their first· 
against a Big Ten opponent since 2004. 
Last year, ESPN analyst and former Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz 
criticized Michigan State's move. "College football doesn't need that nonsense," he 
wrote. Indeed, plenty ofdrama takes place within a game -just look at Michigan 
State's last two losses, both of which came down to the game's final plays. 
While some see these incidents as part of the game, Notre Dame Head Coach 
Charlie Weis summarized the other side .of the argument at a recent press 
conference. "When you use something like the :flag incident, try to use that as 
your motivation for the game, that lasts for about five minutes once the game 
starts. Once you start hitting each other in the mouth a few times in the game, 
that stuffis over with." 

When it comes down to it, post-game antics and obscenities shouted by the 
crowd drown out the conversation taking place on the field. As the NCAA works 
with individual schools like Boston University to eliminate this background noise, 
players and coaches will hopefully send this message to their fans. After all, who­
ever first said "leave everything on the field" wasn't talking about team flags. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author 
and not necessarily the views of Scholastic. 
......... 26 


At the Notre Dame-'-Purdue game, the 1966 .National Championship, football team, coached by Ara Parseghian, celebrated its 40th anniversary. The 
. .legendary team, which allowed only 38. combined points all season and boasted. five AIL-Americans, received .the game ball from ·the. previous week's victory over Michigan.State ... · Quarterback Brady Quinnwas named the Walter Camp Football:Foundation· Offensive Player of the Week for his 319 yards passing and five touchdowns against Michigan State; it was Quinn's eighth career 300-,yard passing game. Defensive·back Terrail Lambert was named the Master0 ·Bootball Coachs' Defensive Player ofthe Week for his two interceptions and touchdown ... 
On September 26th, sophomore defender Carrie Dew of the No. 1 women's soccer. team was awarded Big East ,Conferen·ce · Women's Defensive Player of the Week. Dew scored the 
· game-winning goal against Louisville on September 24th: J~cluding Dew, six members of the Irish defense have been honored by the Big East this season. On offense, freshman forward Michele 
5OCT2006 


Weissenhofer leads the nation in points per game (2.33) and assists per game (1.22) ... Juniorwomen'svolleyball player Adrianna Stasiuknotched 14 kills and 10 digs in a win against Rutgers September 23rd as Big East Conference action opened. Stasiuk, who leads the team with 191 points, posted her ninth double-double of the season against Villanova on September 24th in a 3-0 Irish victory and was named Big East Women's Volleyball Player of the Week. The team's 
· 3rd straight win, a sweep of Seton Hall on September 30th, made Head Coach Debbie Brown just the 28th NCAA coach to win 500 matches ... 
ICRICSH 
EYE ONG,.$ Joseph Lapira 
•Hannah Wenger 
With his skill, enthusiasm and speed,junior forward 
. Joseph Lapira brings a spark fo the Notre Dame men's soccer lineup. As a sophomore, he led the team in points (19) and goals (7), earning two nominations to the Big East Weekly Honor Roll and an All-Big East 
third-team selection. He has continued his strong performance this season with 27 points and 13 goals, including five multiple-goal games. 
' _, '_','-• ·, ...,,·., :-;>--i;,:.)}.:.~-::·:~>)i{::i/·.... :, '. '·>. -i> 
What is'\your;"favorite p·art' of·,,, .the gan,~? .·// _-• 'S::: /{'.)>, When·theteafn succeeds, it makes the/. · \._ · 
•. gani~JhatrnGch better. I concentrate oµ{:_ hciQ~ practices and games and still find ·. doihg w:eu f9r my team and for myself, but-· ,Jin1e\to do !JJY work. The key .is getting . in,ithe. en4,Jhe team is what's impprtant( .j11tP:~ good fautine so everything's not The be~ttqing is to go on the field and,{'. ,ru~he.d. /-:·,:\ -· . h~ye:fyij,W.ith the guys. Scoring goals; . .,•.J /.'·, /::),~\ _ ­isri'tbad?either. , ·•.Who' did YOlJ2;Cheer for during the 
· :_; }\ . . · -•· _/.:_·.·.M;h·f~9[l~i:S~:~:\this. past summer, How ~-~~>Y?,u_r game_.1mprovedo,y•{~;'..\~nd/}l\l.?at\~.!?faYgN\th1nk .about -the your last t\/lC> s~asons? _./,; y;; ;/fmfJ.i;J-1 · \ !;It\'(\\\. _ . It's not so·m~.shthat.L_~m str,gpger1b,tJ}J/ I r,q9ted. for Syv.E¥,9epcl!f:n a huge fan of think l'n, smarter: put ori'tli~W~[9.Jhave tti~j(starting fd~.1~d~,J{enrik Larson and a better feel for)~<tgame;\\'.nd I have ,?tatifi\\o.nwr@pfis}!XHtj'l'r;n a big fan of gotten used t():playi.ng upt9Poe't{Ith Justin _ /the long shots~l\ya:$6'.f~IIJt,at enthused [McGeeneyfJ1Jter hfo_ sea~ori§;Jhi[lgS h,?,bciut the fina:tJx&ptt~atZi9ane's head­
~"'.-/ ' . ·,· -·---::··•_,_•.-·.. :··>·--_,....... ,_ .. ~ .......,, '' _:.r.::-,,,:.::: _,_.._~"•'':"·"!•,-; ·:-,· .. -~ II) .on the field:b.ave really meshe1, at,9,1;'2ei~i;~~-~~t!)~~.s/p"b~Ybf the;Jth:igje§hthihgs I've . l­
a:: learned to play well with my tearrim:ate.$;}\tfil,~v.er'seefilfldpefully fyiyJareer\emds with 0 
II) 
() 
. How have. you managed to ~j~~~,i~~~;fii@s[if}la'.ir. r2:ct(;Li'.,;;·": ::. _}t'/1 0. ~ 
::i
· .soccer with school? 0 
I 
()
I struggled to balance school and soccer Cf) as a freshman and sophomore. As a junior, things have gotten better.. It's tough to 
27·...·...... 



• • • • • • • • • • • • • ~'Scho/asticSports 



1TH 
• Brittany Lash 
I 'I 
: I 
I ~ 
0 
ll. 
(/) 
0 
~ 
0 
I 
0 
(J) 


They love football, and they're Catholic. Though not empirically proven, it's 
a good bet that when asked to describe 
Notre Dame students, most people 
would give an answer exactly like the 
one above. 
However, with the exception ofTouch­
down Jesus, it is rare to find a truly inte­
grated combination ofNotre Dame's two 
most distinct facets: faith and athletics. 
Sure, football and Catholicism are com­
bined when a student makes a "Catholics 
versus Convicts" T-shirt (Notre Dame 
vs. Miami), but how often is the faith of 
the fencing team discussed? Does every 
team pray before each game? The fact is, 
while many athletes attribute their suc­
cess to the strength they build physically 
and mentally, some athletes at Notre 
Dame live off a different strength -the 
strength of faith. 
"I think that you're a little more aware 
of things around you when you have an 
interior life. Oddly enough, when your 
interior life is great, so is your exterior 
life," says the Rev. Bill Seetch, C.S.C., 
religious superior of Holy Cross priests 
and brothers at Notre Dame and chaplain 
ofthe athletic department. "Even ifyou're 
•limited in some of the [spiritual] things you can do because of the time restric­tions like heavy competition and training, ··you're a little bit more aware of things." 
A chaplain for Bengal Bouts and the football and men's and women's soccer teams throughout the past decade, Seetch is currently taking on a new position at Notre Dame: assistant director ofstudent welfare and development in the athletics department. He now devotes his time to organizing oppor_tunities for spiritual growth for all of Notre Dame's athletes. 
"Athletes seldom· get to go on retreats like NDE [Notre Dame Encounter]," Seetch says. He wants to create oppor­tunities for Irish athletes to participate spiritually in ways that have previously been nearly impossible. Instead of a day 
5 OCT 2006 

of recollection or a full weekend retreat, 
Seetch hopes to organize three-hour rec­
ollections or mini-retreats. The desire is 
there, and athletes are looking for ways 
to fill it. 
OnewayistheFellowshipofChristiin 
Athletes (FCA). Meeting twice a month 
for activities, speakers, discussions and 
prayer, FCA is composed of student 
athletes from many of the university's 
teams. Service-oriented, the group will 
sponsor a family at Christmas, and they 
are currently developing other projects. 
FCA student-leader and fencer Rachel 
Cota acknowledges the link between faith 
and athletics. "Athletics are all about faith 
-faith in yourself, in your teammates, in 
your coaches and, as many ND athletes 
believe, in God," she says. 
While many athletes share faith in 
coaches, teammates and themselves, not 
all express their faith in the same way. 
The Irish attract athletes from several 
different religious backgrounds. Chris­
tian softball player Sarah Smith did not · acknowledge her faith as the main reason for coming to Notre Dame, but she has 
since found an appreciation for it. 
"! think that [campus spirituality] is a 
bonus for me," Smith says. "I didn't really 
keep that as my main reason to come here, 
but I see it as an extra that I am blessed to 
have. Anywhere I go I choose to keep my 
faith with me [...] but being here just al­
lows me to find more people with similar 
beliefs, which is nice." 
One prominent athlete who speaks 
openly about his religious affiliation is 
senior offensive-lineman Ryan Harris. A 
=:s.J:S:S:"=.....,.,..,,..,~7:7-,--,.==~~=~..., 
ScholasticSports @ · · · · · · · ··.. ····I 
convert to Islam in the eighth grade, Harris has devot­ed an entire sec­tion of his Notre Dame webspace to a discussion of his Islamic faith. According to what he wrote, Harris became interested in the Islamic faith after watching a video in his eighth grade social stud­ies class. With the support of his par­ents and the help of 

a Muslim teacher, 
Harris is a devout Muslim today. 
His faith, however, presents certain athletic difficulties. September 24th marked the beginning ofthe holy month ofRamadan -a month in which devout Muslims fast from sunrise to sundown to purify themselves and teach sympathy for those less fortunate. It is nearly impos­sible for Harris to follow that require­ment given his commitment to football. According to statements he gave to the Chicago Sun-Times, Harris will supple­ment his lack of fasting by reading more ofthe Qur'an, the holy book oflslam, and by praying five times a day in accordance with the faith. As he told the Sun-Times, "That's one of the things I appreciate 
about Islam -it's a very, very individual 
religion in a sense that there are other 
avenues to celebrate the holiday." 
The Rev. Bill Seetch, c:s.C., assistant director of student welfare and development in the athletics department, cheers on the undefeated women's soccer team. 
5OCT2006 
Harris' practices are just one example of the diverse faith lives of Irish athletes. Swimmer Katie Guida acknowledges the stress and toll her sport takes on her, but her faith-gives her a positive attitude. "It's easy to get bogged down with fatigue dur­ing training, but I try to remind myself of this simple fact: Athletics is a celebra­tion [ ...] a celebration of the body, mind and spirit in the presence of teammates, coaches and God. And I'm here for the party," Guida says. Other Irish athletes see their sport as a way to offer praise. As Smith says, "Our bodies are His holy temple and I'm using softball as a way to discipline myself to make my body a piece of [God's] work." 
Ultimately, the connection between faith and athletics is more than just a quick prayer before games. "I never pray for victory. I always pray that people play the best that they can, and I always pray with them that no one gets hurt. That's the big thing," Seetch says. 
The other "big thing," accord­ing to Harris' fellow senior team­mate, center Bob Morton, is hope. "I think the one word that my relation­ship [with Christ] gives me above all else is hope. I feel additional strength, perseverance and sportsmanship all derive from hope -hope that any­thing can be accomplished and hope that there's a purpose to my every step. Because, let me tell you, if there's a 
~ 
purpose to my step, I'm going to make C. 0 every one I take count." 0 1/1u 
~ 
::i 
0 
I 
u 
U) 
29 •........ 



•Marques Camp 
n the fall, the Notre Dame com­
I 
munity tends to glorify the athletes 
of the gridiron. Football players are the stars of South Bend, putting their bodies on the line for the sake of school pride. Yet it may go unnoticed that at Rolf's Aquatic Center on the east end of campus, another group of men also put their bodies on the line during every match and practice. Water polo, a club sport at Notre Dame, is often overlooked. 
Not only must a water polo player be brutally tough, but he (or she, as the women's club team plays in the spring) also needs the agility of a running back, the vertical leap of a shooting guard and the arm of a pitcher, not to mention the brains of a chess player. Imagine a com­bination of the roughest sports on land and then add water. 
"I got into water polo my freshman year of high school," team captain Ste­phen Shepard says. "I was a swimmer, basketball player and soccer player in. middle school, so this sport just seemed to combine all three into one." Water polo is a sport that tests each player's physical 

'~~~'..~: it is not for the meek. "We 

tread water the entire game trying to beat up on the opposition, so as you can imagine, a lot of endurance is needed," Shepard says. 
The gridiron gang gets off easy with one game a week -try three games on Saturday and four to five in one weekend. The team might be tempted to take it easy on Saturday to avoid the next morning'~ ..... · pain, but giving their all provides the players with the ultimate satisfad1on 
-and as much ofa break as can be had in water polo. "Saturday is always the hard day, and we get pretty tired by the end of it, but we play as hard as we can, because the better you do on Saturday, the later 

. . . . . ,.

. I
I
' • ! ' ,/. 
' 
Scholastic~ports@ .. · · · · · · · · · · · · .1 
you play on Sunday," Shepard says. 
For the team, which competes as a member of the Great Lakes Conference in the Collegiate Water Polo Association (CWPA), its consistent effort is payin.g off. "We faced Michigan State in tlie semifinals. They were No. 2 in the coun­try at that point, and we were No. 9. We had lost to them by two earlier that year and hadn't beaten them in several years. The whole team had a really great game, and we blew them away 13-6. At one point, _they were so frustrated they started putting two extra players in the goal to help their goalie out. It was a re­ally great feeling, blowing them out like 
!"s'ei~iorpap,tain Stev~ sb~p~r.d weighs his passing dptions before throwing th; b~ifduiing •.. that," Shepard says. l:i:ifactic.e,:( ;'. < < . • .• ·•. ·.· .·· •. ~· .· · ......•. · ·. . . .• . ....... ·._.... • As they travelled to numerous tour­1.1aments throughout the country, the i:eain's ran.king reached as high as No.·•· 7 last year in the CWPA natii:mal poll. This year, the men have six tournaments on their schedule. The team began the season with an impressive showing in the Hillbilly Classic at the University ofTen­nessee, advancing to the championship game before l~1.2gJq.Grand'VaUey, 17-7. ,. . Their-,petforma:ti.t:e earned them a No. 12'fa:iiking going into the Great Lakes Regional Tournament on September 23rd and 24th, where Notre Dame won three of its four games. The team entered the season having lost five starters; however, in two tourna­ments so far this year it has suffered only two losses. Co-captains Jon Kelly and Patrick Connors echo the same sentiment as Shepard: this is a young team that is improving rapidly, and they look forward to put­ting all those hours of conditioning to work in the remainder of the season. Most recently, the No. 12 ranked Irish tied Miami (OH), lost to Indiana and beat Ohio State in a forfeit at a tournament at the Uni­versity of Miami in Ohio. They are looking forward to hosting a major tourna­ment in late October -the Great Lakes Conference · 
~ 
0
Championships on Octo­0. ber 28th and 29th. 0 u U) 
ti 
::i 
0 
I 
u 
Cf) 
5 OCT2006 




,. 
•· • · ··· · · · · · · · @Scho/asticHumor 
Hey kiddies, it's your pervy Uncle Gipp, here to eye you inappropriately and give you the "uh-oh" feeling. It seems Notre Dame has been busy lately, with just as many poor decisions and spout­ing bodily fluids as ever before. Sit back, relax, slip into something a little more com(9rt11ble and let the Gipper take you for a wild ride. · 
Our first tale ... well ... goes to a level of "awkward" that even confuses the Gipp. It seems that during Purdue weekend, one student took "tail" -gating a little too far. Our young friend had been drink­ing a little heavily -as one is wont to due during a traditional football game morning of revelries -and he spotted an older, yet still attractive, woman who struck his fancy. Obviously, he felt the need to court this "Mrs. Robinson" and outwardly express his burning affec­tions; to do so, he placed his hands on the lady's derriere. The Gipp wonders why he didn't just hurl himself crotch­
. first at the woman while licking his lips, but not all men have the smooth skills of the Gippster. However, our young man was shocked when he discovered that the object of his affections was, in fact, a high-ranking university administrator. Way to go, Romeo. Ifyou'd only had the right touch, maybe she would've fixed your grades . . . 
Next, the Gipp would like to regale his Gipplings with a story as you prepare to take your midterms, spending many a night secluded in Dirty Hessy Library until the wee hours of the mornings. Every Notre Dame student knows that Hessy is often the sight of unsavory be­havior: sex, heroin, pagan rituals involv­ing goat blood, etc. B~t this story s:ems to surpass even the G1pp's expectations. Our fateful protagonist -let's call him "Drunken Band Member" -was spend­ing a weekend night hittin' t~e old_sauce, and became very, very, very mtoxicated. However, like a true overachiever, DBM 
knew his studies wouldn't wait for him to sober up. He stumbled into the library to do some research -Uncle Gipp can only imagine what that paper looked like -when things started to get a little hazy. He was awakened a couple hours later by a stern NDSP officer ... and realized he was as nude as the day he was born. And probably. co:v.eredj!)-the same amount of drool. Just another reason for you to make Hes burgh Library your study destination in the coming stressful days. 
Well, the Gipp is still virile, and he's gotloads of dates with many pretty ladies that he's got to get to before the end ofthe night. Stay loose, stay pretty, stay classy and tip the Gipp, kiddies. 
I' ~--. . . 
/ ~­~-.; ~/; ,­
pv · 
· -P~~""':;:;:-•''' @nd.edu 
~-,;r;tr~· 
-~9'9e~ 
o? ?>"'-~ TIPTHEG\\ · 
i : . ' ' -.. -,. , .
l , . • 
' Humor l]) 

Whileyoureadthis,I'matStepanFieldsmastenninding the Farley inter hall football team to a blowout victory over the Chicks of Lewis Hall. I tell you this 
because one day you'll want to tell your children you remember me. Why, you ask? It's very simple: A few more simple wins, and I will h_ave brought the Finest to championship glory in·· Notre Dame Stadium. Nevermind the fact that in our first two games, I didn't know how to get a first down, couldn't figure out my girls' names and almost got thrown out of the league. for swearing (we started off 0-2, incidentally). The long and short of it is that legendary football coaches always have their shortcomings glossed over by the golden armor of victory. No one remembers Bear Bryant for leading one of the greatest pedophile rings in the South, orTom Landry for beginning every pre"'game speech with an excerpt from Mein Kampf, but everyone remembers them for the glory they led their boys to 
. . .on the grtdiron -and I am no exception. On a related note, I 
.. ; . : . , ' have just/so happened\1pon the first rough draft ofa script for an upcoiring Fox Sp8Ef:5,:'.1ipeciaLon yours truly. So, .without further aµo, allow me.to present the first edition of Beyond the Glory -lfarley Hall: Mike Healy, Twenty Girls and the]ourney to Immortality: (note: to\rack this script down, I had to use Gpogle, and be forewarned th,at forgetting the first "t" in 'iminort~lity' produces a very different. ..~nd disturbing result). ! 
(Excerpts from Fox Sports -Beyond t~e Glory -::­
MHTG&TJTI) . \ 
: . \ 
lA\,n..l . From thefir~tdayofpractice, Coach Healy brought 
~ • with him a striking and innovative offense. Even on that first day, the women of Farley knew't:hey were a part of something special. · 
KEJtLiTy :To check on this, Fox interviewed Farleyrun.ning 
--. back and team captain Kim Crehan: "We didn't even score until our third game. It was terrible; Coach showed up drunk and wouldn't even bother giving us plays to run at first. When we finally made him come up with something, all he would say was, 'How about you n,.vo go 10 yards, then make out.' It was really repulsive.'' 
When confronted with this, Healy only offered that if he "knew one damn thing about football" it was that "prudes don't win championships." 
fv\\rn..l :Healy always took meticulous interest in the lives of 
~ his players. He was fond of saying, "the only thing that matters more to me than making my girls winners on the field is making them winners off it." . 
KEJ'rurj. Exhaustive interviews by Fox Sports found no -::, ' former players with recollections. ofHealy taking ' any interest in their studies or outside lives 
i 
5 OCT2006 ' 
whatsoever. Looking deeper, Fox made a thorough search of 
the old Farley football office and the only "proof" available was 
a clipboard with signups for "Coach Healy's Sleepover 'Studly' 
(sic) Hall." The clipboard was completely bare except for one . name scrawled near the top and then furiously scribbled out. The writing underneath read, "Healy! I clearly did not write · this. OMG, you are such a perv!" 
·· lA\,n..l •Healy once fulfilled the lifelong dream of a 
~.• handicapped girl, putting her in at quarterback on 
· ' the last play ofan important game·against Howard 
Hall. She responded by throwing the game-winning touchdown 
pass. The girl later grew up to become a U.S. Senator. 
KEJtLif::f :In an interview, Healy himself admitted to 
stretching the truth a little bit: "This one is kind of a composite legend. We did have a girl with some voice problems, but she was really good and <la.ting an assistant coach, so she played all the time. There was in. fact a game where a girl showed up witl1 a nasty cold, however. She really battled through to corrie out.for the.team.J'didn't really like her, though, so I told her she couldn't play'.-Q11e time I did put a foreign exchange student in the game. She wa~n't very good, but it turned out she was 12 years old and trick.:.or-treating or something -she didn't even know she was playing football. It was a heartwarming experience for everyone, and I really like !O think it taught the girls a lot about life." 
lA\,n..l . Healy once sent unwelcome drunken Facebook ~·.•solicitations to a member of his team at 2 a.m. the · night before a game. 
KEftWrJ. Healy once sent unwelcome drunken Facebook -' solicitations to a member ofhis team at 2 a.m. the night before a game. 
That's as much ofthe transcript as I could get from my sources over at Fox, but it seems to be pretty fair and balanced. 0 


PllUDes DON 1r N 1N .. CH11"4PIONJHIPS Ho~r Sl$eJ)OV~I! a: 
0
II $11,1f)l V.. HIt LL ::E 
0
PL.Ry fdl-EllnN· ·· .. . ::, :i:: ftlHl9t-4he STW>El\Jt ~ 
I
smi) lf,Jlt('Pf{DfAJlt'rE 0 Cl) 0 fl9 {E"/BOl)I( N ~ II 6t f;r.j 
35· · · · .... · 

GeorgeA. Lopez is a Senior Fellow at theJoan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame. A professor of political science, Lopez has written extensively on the effects of economic sanctions and participated in last week's panel discussion about the Iraq war, sponsored by the Kroc Institute. Scholastic sat down with Prof. Lopez to discuss his opinions about the current American involvement in Iraq. 
Is there anything to be optimistic 
about in Iraq at this point? 
Well, I suppose you could be optimistic about the resilience of certain sectors of the Iraqi people. But the levels of optimism, I think, have to be under­stood comparatively. One of the most underreported statistics is the amount of migration; some studies suggest as much as 60 percent of the population in the medical profession has simply left the country. Others who can afford it have taken haven in Jordan. You're in a situ­ation where the backbone of the expert class, which you would count on to make an economy run and engage in civic life, are simply so frustrated with anarchy and lack ofsecurity that they've left. So those who remain in the country are those who have no choice but to be there, and life is extremely difficult for them. 
Why does Iraq remain so volatile three and a halfyears after the invasion? 
There were problems right at the entry of American troops into Baghdad that weren't solved. Maybe the first was the decision by [Coalition Provisional Au­thority leader] Paul Bremer before he ever entered Baghdad to disband the Iraqi . army and to do away with the Baathist party as a whole, which comprised most of the folks in the civil service. So if you're going to have lights, power and the flow ofreasonable goods and services from the government, you just wiped out that infrastructure. And you began 
to replace it with young Americans who had never been in Baghdad before, many of whom spoke no Arabic whatsoever. The disbanding of the army is a problem because it doesn't give you people to pro­tect power plants ifinsurgents and others are to strike them. Having dismissed the army, you turn 90,000 people back to the streets with their guns and no work. It was just a series of calamitous decisions that you're fighting uphill from the very beginning. 
Can you foresee the possibility ofany occurrence in Iraq that would alter public opinion to the point where the United States would be forced to withdraw? 
That's tough to say. Maybe it's an attack on the green zone. But I think the Ameri­can people have developed a strange kind of immunization against bad news in Iraq. Theyknow it's going badly; they wish we would do something with it; but in fact it doesn't motivate them to the levels of political discussion or political disdail! that Vietnam did. 
Do you agree with the thesis ofWash­ington Post reporter Bob Woodward's new book that says the Bush admin­istration is in a state of denial about Iraq? 
I think it's important to understand that the administration was in a situation of cultural hubris long before this. That is, the belief that you could go into a country and remake it -that you could change 300 years of cultural history in the space ofthree to six months. People want to say, "Iraq wasn't ready for democracy." It's not actually about democracy. It's about the recognition that you cannot undo fac­tional tensions and religious differences simply by saying to people, "If you only cooperate with our model, your life will be better." They may at once rejoice in your overthrowing their dictator, but that doesn't mean that they1re going to want to see or talk to you very much anymore. They're going to want their country back. It's the ultimate in denial, that is, denial of the power of culture, denial ofthe power of religion. 
What do you believe was the biggest miscalculation of our government regarding the Iraqi invasion? 
We believed that our intentions would translate to our capabilities, that because we want to be a source for good, every­thing we bring will be good and will be . accepted. That doesn't happen automati­cally. The second difficulty is that we want Iraqis to change their political culture. We essentially used a political patronage 
· system to appoint people of authority in Iraq, a political patronage system that had young Americans who were true believ­ers in the vision of country rebuilding, republican style. To reiterate, it wasn't a state of denial after the fact. It was a state of assertion that "because we desire it we can create it, because we will it, it will happen" that led to this. 

5 OCT2006 
rJ)_ 
• 1"'-t 
. submit poetryand short stories to juggler@nd.edu · ··si1bmit art anddesig11 enu·iesto Mary Foster, 3ofi Riley 



