PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
। Volume 74_________________NOVEMBER 8, 1940______.	Number 7
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST ,
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-6969	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4060
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS 702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M. D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose. d. d.s. Cyril F. Rose. d. d. s. Peter J. Rose, d. d'.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
Some 21,500 cars and trucks are in regular day to day service with the Bell System. The great majority have bodies specially developed by telephone engineers. Many are equipped with power winches, air compressors and pole derricks. Each of the many types is designed to handle particular functions in the construction and maintenance of telephone plant.
Planning, purchasing and operating the world’s largest fleet of commercial motor vehicles is a big job in itself. Yet it is but part of the far bigger job: providing the finest, fastest, friendliest service to the millions who daily use the telephone.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
IFhy not give the family a ring tonight? Rates to most points are lowest after 7 P. M. any night—and all day Sunday.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
' RAYMOND J. KELLY ~
not so much the book knowledge you get; not so much the athletics; not so much the — not so much — well, not so much.”
Fashion Note
Art in Propaganda
A recent issue of the Minnesota Daily had an interesting article about Louis Raemaekers. As many will remember he was the newspaper artist who fought the World War with a pen and accomplished much more than most men could with a sword. He was responsible for the atrocity cartoon, a blood-curdling picture of a creature, drooling profusely and looking like Gargantua in a particularly touching mood. Invariably, he stood atop a piece of rock and was intent on squeezing or trampling to death a fair maiden, conveniently attired in a lace curtain. Louis is hard at work in this country, picturing Hitler in the same role the Kaiser played in the last war. Personally, I think it is wasted effort. That kind of propaganda suffered a death-blow a few years back when a collegiate humor magazine ran a. series of cartoons of this missing link and his girl friend and labeled them successively: University president Dykstra and student body; Chicago Tribune and New Deal; New Deal and Chicago Tribune; and finally, Phi Delts and Kappas.
Personal Piffle
One of that crew of celebrities that blitz-krieged its way into our quiet district a while back deserves to be told off. He started this whole “Yehudi” business and, for one, I think it is all out of control. The jokes were bad enough but they were of the stuff that fades and dies and goes to the limbo where dwells Mah-Jong, Prohibition, and recordings of “The Music Goes ’Round.” However, when half the college papers in this country have a column allegedly written by some “Yehudi” or “Yahootie,” I call for a halt. There is no excuse for perpetuating iniquity.
Journalists Again
A reporter from the Oakville Herald had been sent to cover a great mine disaster. Impressed with what he saw, he tried to give some idea of the emotion that the vast panorama of death inspired in him. His telegram to his editor began: “God sits tonight on a little hill overlooking the scene of disaster.”
His editor immediately wired back: “Never mind disaster — interview God. Get picture if possible.”
—St. John’s University Torch
How to save the World, Dept.
The latest suggestion for bringing peace and order to this troubled old world has come from the Ohio State Lantern. After watching the children of the neighborhood and the University, freshmen soap windows, steal garden gates, ring doorbells and contribute to the general hilarity of Hallowe’en, this writer thought that if everyone in the country could go out one night a year to celebrate in the traditional way, it would serve as a safety valve and would cushion, or even avoid, the big blow-up that comes every generation. Allowing each person in the United States a maximum of two dollars damage per year, times 20, the average length of time between wars, we would still only run up a bill of §1,200,000,000 which is hardly enough to equip an army for a review much less put in 24-hour shifts for active service.
Our Educational Platform
Now that the election is passed we can return to the traditional questions that bull-sessions try to solve. One of our exchanges attempted to answer the problem of why a college education:
“The value of a college education is
“I don’t care if you did have a story in ’Scrip’!”
Why is it professors can wear purple ties,
Haphazard hair cuts, and coats the wrong size;
Trousers too short and color scheme vile, Yet flunk me in English because of my style?—Queen’s University Journal
Those Exams Again
Dartmouth students in higher mathematics find their exams tough—but far from dull.	-
A question, propounded by Prof. Bancroft Brown, baffled and amused them. It was:.
“In the game of shooting craps, the caster rolls two dice and wins if (a) the sum be 7, or 11, (b) if the sum be 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and if this same sum reappears before seven is ever seen. To obviate the odds against the caster, a dishonest caster employs two dice, one true and the other so loaded that a certain number always appears on the top. What should this number be in order to give him the maximum advantage?”
Send answer to Professor Brown, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. You may be right at that!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF—
Top of the Week
. . . Mr. Bayer’s aspirin. . . .
Rambling
. . . Scrip is with us. . . . Those souls who submitted and were submerged will possibly have their charred works published in another mag to be called Scrap. . . . Bill Mulvey, who talks over radios, wrote a sedative on Porgy a book which is referred to as “class” for short, but not for long. . . . Charles Cyprian wrote “Goodbye, Johnnie” ... Do you know Charles Cyprian? ... You never will, friends. . . . Scrip not only promotes hysteria . . . but mysteria. . . . But it’s not such a tough world . . . think of your tapeworm ... he gets splashed with all your soup, pelted with lumps three times a day, and takes a shower* on draught Saturday night. . . . And then comes the report that a pearl was found within the cloister of an oyster . . . this is a far cry from the day when finding an oyster was thrill enough . . . those in the know think that the pearl is a truant bicuspid. . .
Sight of the Week
. . . Seeing one of Scrip’s associate editors, sometimes called “Moon,” dash madly across the quad in front of Alumni to pick up a generous snipe hurled by a less-frugal roommate. . .
Dear Zurzulo
. . . Will I come? Why, you silly sweet thing, of course I will. It isn’t oft that a girl can “rate” a Notre Dame Cotillion. Those who “belong” simply marvel at your “smart” esoteric “fandangoes.” The so-called “Bourgeois classes” are quite perplexed at the sophistry of your terpsichorean machinations. We or us of the “smart” set are simply green with envy of those who penetrate tradition. Father has instituted a policy of laissez-faire at dinner until I leave.
I purchased a “smart” creation today. It will be perfectly gorgeous for your quaint quadrille. A bolero jacket contrasts a “chic” whipper-dipper skirt that laps and frills about the ankles. It’s simply darling, but divine. So I murmur “Toodleoo” and in the interim, I endure,
Enthrallingly yours, Stella
Dear Fantasma
Kiddo, trot out the gutbucket jive. Mama has put the blast on me lately but she lifted the clamp on the Cotillion: So now I’m asayin’ “From doghouse to barrelhouse” . . .
Dear Gregory
You’re great! Did you surprise me! Wow! Knock me over with a toothpick! Will I be there with bells on! Oh, have you made me hilariously ecstatic! Tally-ho! .. .
Clip Joint
“Next!”
Student heads look up. They look down. No one moves.
“Next!”
They bulge a freshman from his seat and shove him toward the first chair.
“Good morning, young man, you look new here. Yep, they come and go like fleas around here. I’ve seen ’em all. Where you from?”
“My home’s in—”
“Zat so, been there myself many times. Musta been twenty years ago. That was the time they had the big blizzard here. Marooned here in Badin for weeks. Lived on fingernails and termite caches. Men were hard in those days. Now you take this here generation. No backbone, Cars, cars, cars! We walked in my day. Hot water, bah! We cracked the ice in our water basins. Could you do that?”
“Well, I suppose—”
“No, of course not. You’re as bad as all the rest. Boy, you’ve got to get tough. Look at me. Stand on my feet all day cutting hair and —”
“Don’t cut mine too—”
—“never once have I neglected my education. Yep, know every ND player and score from 1903 on. Remember old Gunner Rumbum? Guess not, but he was some punkins. Best head of hair I ever seen. Bushy stuff. Grew like a vine. Used to cut it with a hedge clipper. No electric razors in those days. The Gunner used to come in twice a year for a shave and haircut. Why, they stuffed the first Morris chair with Gunner’s hair. What a man! Size 10 hat with his hair cut. Size 13 when it was long. By the way, how would you like your hair cut?”
“In silence.”
“Next.”
OPINION
We are proud to present in this issue an utterly unscientific survey of zvhat radio programs are most enjoyed around these parts. If this happens to be a true cross section of student opinion, it’s just happy coincidence.
Cavanaugh Hall, John Klein: “Make-Believe Ballroom features recordings of a different 'name’ band each week, and I think it’s one of the best of the request type of program. I’ll take Brenda and Cobina on Bob Hope’s hour for laughs, though.”
Off-campus, Bud Russell: “I usually listen to the Pot o’ Gold because it has Horace Heidt’s orchestra. I met him last summer and I like his band a lot. The idea of giving away a sum of money to someone listed in the telephone directory is good, too; it keeps you listening.”
Sorin Hall, Jim Gonner: “I like Bing Crosby on the Kraft Music Hall because he doesn’t seem to care about following the script exactly, but livens up the program with such unusual terminology as ‘local precinct projection parlor’ for ‘neighborhood theater.’ ”
Morrissey Hall, Roger Cummings: “For the best variety program, Bob Hope and company lead by a chin; for fifteen minutes of straight swing, I’d say Glenn Miller’s the tops.”
Lyons Hall, Herb Becker: “Kay Kyser’s hour is one I rarely miss. Besides a smooth line of wise-cracks and a jovial manner, Kay also has Ish Kibbible and the unique style of introducing his numbers with singing song titles.”
Dillon Hall, Don F. Connors: “I like Bing Crosby’s program for an all-around good show, mainly because of Bing’s singing, I guess. The guest stars he has, though,are a big help and their individual talents seem to fit right in with the proceedings.”
Breen-Phillips, John Cowley: “The Little Theater off Times Square puts on a good play every week, Ellery Queen has a fast-moving murder mystery, and ‘The Hermit’ tells the weirdest ghost stories.”
Alumni Hall, Jim Diver: “I’d rate Bob Hope’s the best comedy show, Fred Waring’s the best session of popular music — I especially like his idea of a Song of the Week — and C. B. DeMille’s Lux Radio Theater the best dramatic show.”
Carroll Hall, Paul Arens: “I used to see Glenn Miller’s band in Chicago all the time and I hardly ever miss one of his programs now.”
—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
NOVEMBER 8, 1940
Number 7
Miss Elizabeth Rock Queen of Annual
Sophomore Cotillion on November 15
Boyd Raeburn to Play at Palais Royale
With outward calm hiding an increased pulse rate, over-400 Notre Dame men — sophomores, juniors, and seniors — will escort their respective guests to the Palais Royale next Friday night, Nov. 15, for the Sophomore Cotillion. There they will dance to the music of Boyd Raeburn and his orchestra from 9 to 1 o’clock.
Miss Elizabeth Jane Rock of Oak Park, Illinois, a sophomore at Rosary College, in River Forest, will be queen of the Cotillion, as guest of General Chairman Hans Olaf Helland of Wisconsin Dells, Wis.
Huge Candle Effect
The decorative theme is a huge candle effect, the candles lining the walls of the hall. Unique white leather address books have been selected as favors. The Dome will cover the Cotillion with a special photographer who will get a sequence of shots of a typical sophomore couple. Another photographer -will be on hand to
Cotillion night . . . 800 will be there
take individual couple shots for which orders are now being taken on campus. Two o’clock permissions have been granted to those attending the cotillion.
Next Saturday afternoon the Cotillion couples will attend the Iowa game in a special section of the stadium which has been reserved for the occasion. The Victory dance Saturday at the Indiana Club, sponsored by the St. Vincent de Paul Society, will climax the festivities of the weekend.
General Chairman Hans 0. Helland and Class President Ambrose Dudley have directed the work on the Cotillion. Following is the list of those who helped on the various committees: Publicity: Chairman Walter McNamara, Jack Barry, Owen McGoldrick, Robert Muel-man, John Kelly and Jerry Currier; Music: Chairman Charles Miller, Gail Fitch, Steven Ensner, Bob Owens, Joe Keenan and Neil Green; Programs: Chairman Ralph Carabasi, Joe Newton, Gilbert Gilhooly, Ralph Vinciguerra, James Carberry and John McHale; Patrons: Chairman Blair McGowan, William Riley, Jack Shroder, Owen Evans, Bill Woods and Bill Costello; Decorations : Chairman Jack Finnegan, Jack
Reis, Bob Kinney, Howard Fahey, Lou Rymkus, Ed Kopshaver and Otto Siefert; Tickets: Chairman Bill Sullivan, Joe Haas, Joe D’Ambrosio, Tom Henney, Wally Ziemba and James Girard; Arrangement: Chairman Bill Stewart, Bill Earley, Cy Singer, John McNulty, Bob Corrigan and Larry Sullivan.
—Robert LeMense
Dr. McMahon Favors
Aid to Great Britain
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, together with 59 other prominent Catholics, signed- a letter, appearing in the New York Times, Oct. 28, 1940, appealing for aid to Britain by the United States.
The letter reads in part as follows:
“We, as American citizens and Catholic Christians, believe that American institutions, based as they are on Christian principles, face an appalling danger. . . . We must recognize it (Hitlerism) for what it is — the denial of God, of all that makes life worth while for Christian peoples, and the rejection of every spiritual and moral restraint. ... It has given its followers a vision of world conquest and dominion and has convinced them that there is no other evil than interference with the accomplishment of its purpose.
“. . . Whatever some of us may feel concerning the actions of England in the past, her defeat in the present war will mean the triumph of those who would usurp the things of God. ... We must give all possible help to Great Britain in order that she may carry on the war to victory, lest we be left to face the dictators of Europe and Asia alone.
“We believe this danger is imminent. Therefore, as American citizens and as Catholics, we declare that we give our full support to the government of the United States for every prudent and effective effort it may take to overcome this evil thing.”
Among the other signers were: Bishop Robert E. Lucey, Bishop Edwin V. O’Hara, the Rev. Robert H. Lord, Dr. James J. Walsh, Col. William J. Donovan, Carlton J. H. Hayes, Jerome G. Kerwin, and Ross Hoffman.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NEW HOOK-AND-LADDER TRUCK
Era of Hose Cart Volunteer Fire Department Passes With Coming of the New Fire Engine
Theatre Opens Season
With "Outward Bound"
' This year’s first production by the University Theatre will be Sutton Vane’s extraordinary play, “Outward Bound.” The Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., director of the theatre group, announces dates of the presentation to be the evenings of Thursday and Friday, Dec. 12 and 13.
“Outward Bound” portrays the emotions and philosophies of a group of characters who find themselves companions on a journey which seems to them marked by unreality. It is a three-act play in which the action throughout takes place on a ship.
This ship proves to be unique in that it is running without lights under the guidance of but one attendant. The climax of the first act occurs when the mystified company of shipmates, suddenly discovering every one of them to be dead, asks the lone attendant the destination of the boat.—John Casey
The era of the old hose-car and volunteer fire-fighting days has disappeared with the acquisition of modem firefighting equipment. Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., chief engineer of the University steam plant, is at present working on the organization of a modernized volunteer fire department.
New Equipment
The new equipment consists of a 1940 International chassis built into a combination pumper and hook and ladder truck. It is equipped with a 750-gallon per minute pump, extension ladders, hose, and accessories. This was built in the shop under the direction of Brother Borromeo.
The first fire department at Notre Dame was a volunteer department organized at the turn of the century. There were three hose stations on the campus; one in the rear of Sorin Hall; another in the rear of St. Edward’s Hall, which still remains; and a third at Holy Cross seminary. A hose company of Sorin Hall students was formed to handle station number one; a group from Brownson Hall for number two; and Seminarians for number three.
Motorized Equipment
With the advent of motorized equipment in South Bend the stations at Sorin Hall and Holy Cross Seminary were abandoned; however, the hose cart in the station behind St. Edward’s Hall remained in service until the present time.
The new equipment will be housed temporarily in a shelter by the steam
plant. Brother Borromeo plans to have this apparatus propertly manned at all times.—Ed Drake
Expect Sellout for Iowa
Game Here November 16
“People are buying more football tickets this season than in several past years and there doesn’t seem to be any explanation for it,” said Herb Jones, assistant Business Manager of Athletics, as he happily scanned a pile of ticket applications before him.
Symbolically clad in a green suit, the affable Mr. Jones created the impression that he didn’t particularly care what the reason was, so long as the demand for tickets continued.
Supported in characteristic fashion by the now famous “subway alumni,” the Navy game in Baltimore heads the list of the four remaining games on the Irish schedule.
The month of November gives promise of being a profitable one for the Irish. In addition to the Army game, Notre Dame sets sail against Navy tomorrow before 60,000 and performs for a capacity crowd against Northwestern on Nov. 23. Sandwiched between these two games is the final home game of the season with Iowa, which to all indications, will also be a sellout.
A total of 12,000 tickets have been sold to west coast alumni and to the local clientele who will make the 2,000-mile trip to Los Angeles for the finale with Southern California on Dec. 7.
—Sam McQuaid
Heah Ye! Heah Ye! Heah
Comes Sadie Hawkins!
Efen yo’ is th’ kind o’ fella which jigs or squah-dances, o’ even ef yo’ ah partial to th’ La Congah, yo’ betta grab yo’ bes’ gal an’ head straight fo’ th’ Indi-anah Club, a week from tomorrow night, Novembuh 16, fo’ th’ Vincentians aim t’ put on th’ swelles’ shindig thet yo’ ever seen. Hit’s to be th’ Sadie Hawkins Dance an’ all Dogpatch is plannin’ to len’ color to th’ festivities. Th’ decerrations ah all goin’ to be in real, hones’-to-golly Dogpatch fashin, wif co’n stalks in th’ co’ners an’ presarved turnips strung along th’ ceilin’.
“Five-Stah” Hennessy an’ othah im-po’ts from Skunk Hollow will lead th’ squah-dances. Efen any of yo’ has bin nussin’ a secret urge to call a squah-dance, jest drap ovah to Alumni Hall an’ ; see “Beelzebub” Brennan. He will fix yo’ ; up wif a job, right away.	’
Accordin’ to “Corny” Corey who is ] premotin’ th’ hull ruckus, them thet air j goin’ to th’ Cotillion will git their Sadie 1 Hawkins Dance admit along with th’ > othat ticket. Howsomevah, ef yo’ gits I yo’ ticket at th’ doah et’ll be one dollah | an’ no Confederate notes ah goin’ to be | accepted. So, join th’ gang an’ be at th’ | Indianah Club afteh th’ lowah game. | Join Dogpatch an’ Skunk Hollow in | dancin’ to Bob Richardson’s music. Heah | the ol’-time fiddlers. See Daisy Mae, Li’l S Abner, and “Earthquake” McGoon. S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Think Clearly, Logically
Suggests Father O'Brien
Is the task of converting non-Catholics to the Catholic religion a difficult one? What are the requirements necessary for conversion? Many Catholics wonder at the answers to these questions yet never find them. Let the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., LL.D., member of the Notre Dame faculty, tell you.
He is at present delivering a series of lectures in South Bend to the general public, especially non-Catholics, who are interested in the Catholic religion. Father O’Brien has spent many years in converting people and is regarded as an authority on the subject. His book, The White Harvest, is a symposium on the psychological methods of conversion. This book is widely used in seminaries in America, Rome, Louvain, and England. Here in brief is what Father O’Brien says about conversion:
A Good Moral Life
“The capacity to think clearly and logically is most helpful to the stranger to find his way to the threshold of the Church of Historic Christianity — the Catholic Church. A secondary, but likewise important requirement is that the individual live a good moral life which will enable him to appreciate the beauty and helpfulness of the teachings of Christ. In my experience of a quarter of a century of lecturing to inquirers and prospective converts, I have found these two factors of paramount importance. If they are present, the individual will find clear sailing. For the logic of the Church’s claims to his allegiance is ir-resistable and the moral teachings of Christ answer the deepest hunger in the heart of man.
“To the individual who tries earnestly and sincerely to find the truths, God always is sufficient Grace and Light. Once the inquirer perceives the truth of the Church’s claims then his prayer must be for strength to follow it. Even though it takes him through strange and lonely paths, but in the end he will find, as Cardinal Newman found, the largest measure of inward peace and happiness that can be found here below.”
With the above as his philosophy of procedure, Father O’Brien has been delivering a series of lectures in St. Patrick’s Hall in South Bend, entitled “The Faith of Millions.” These lectures started Oct. 10 and will continue until Dec. 19 on every Monday and Thursday evening at 7:30.
—Robert D. LeMense
Col. Charles Sweeney Member of Air Corps
Last week newspaper reporters drew a comparison between the conduct of this war and the First World War, when the Lafayette Escadrille accounted for more than 199 German planes. The escadrille of this present war is the American Eagle Squadron which was organized in Great Britain by Colonel Charles J. Sweeney, student here in 1898-99, and a
Cel. Sweeney, some years ago
soldier of fortune who fought in the French Foreign Legion in the last war.
Time, the national magazine, in commenting said that both coasts of the United States and Canadian border immigration men had inklings of Colonel Sweeney’s missionary work months ago.
Last week U. S. newshawks “somewhere in west England” saw two score of Sweeney’s men training in yellow-colored Miles Master planes, almost ready to fly against the invader. They will be ready to do so in a few weeks when they have graduated. Then they will fly Spitfires and Hurricanes.
The British made Colonel Sweeney a reserve captain in the R.A.F. They segregated the reckless Americans, rather than to put them into the conservative regular units.
Most celebrated Eagle is Colonel Sweeney’s nephew, Robert Sweeney, who won the British Amateur golf championship in 1937.—Bob Nenno
Prof. Flynn Made Head of Social Work Dept.
“The purpose of the Department of Social Work is the training of graduate students in the field of social work with special emphasis on preparation for positions in the fields of public welfare, parole, probation, and correctional institutions,” said Frank T. Flynn, head of the Notre Dame Department of Social Work, in an interview recently.
Although social work has been an item of the University curriculum since 1924, this is the first year that it has been a special department completely independent of all other departments. With progress changing and modifying methods in the field of sociology, the University council decided last year to make social work a separate department and appointed Mr. Flynn head of the newly formed division. On the faculty besides Mr. Flynn are: Mr. John J. Cronin, Mr. John McClurg, Dr. Philip Law of Loyola College, Dr. Joseph Caton of the University medical staff, and the Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Any graduate of the college of arts and letters of Notre Dame or its equivalent in another school meets the requirements for entrance. At present there are 18 students enrolled. Among the recent graduates are men working in prisons, juvenile reform, departments of parole, juvenile and adult probation departments, the child welfare program of the social security act, and the field of research.
450 Hours of Work
Each student does a minimum of 450 clock hours in a social work clinic established as a separate unit of the St. Joseph County department of public welfare. The field work is under the full time direction of a faculty member. The St. Joseph County welfare department is considered one of the best in the United States and the students get invaluable experience. They are taken progressively through a varied system of cases starting with dependent children up to problematical parolees.
Opportunities in this field are good. At present there is an unfilled demand for graduates of the department. There are several scholarships available.
—Bob Fitzpatrick
Economics Exam
The department of economics will hold a Comprehensive examination at 1:30 on Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 19, in Room 231 of the Main building. Majors in economics who are completing their studies at Notre Dame on Feb. 1 will take this examination.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Roosevelt Sweeps Land But Willkie Wins Here
Although President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, honorary alumnus of Notre Dame, was re-elected for a third term, Wendell L. Willkie, Republican candidate received balm for his defeat wounds from Notre Dame voters when results from this precinct showed a 2 to 1 Willkie majority.
Both candidates have visited the Notre Dame campus. President Roosevelt received an honorary degree here in 1935. Mr. Willkie visited the campus a few weeks ago and addressed the student body.
Mr. Willkie polled 430 votes to Mr. Roosevelt’s 271. Mr. Babson, Prohibition candidate, gathered three votes. Notre Dame alumni who were running for various state and national offices were overwhelmingly victorious in every instance. The tabulated returns are:
President: Willkie—430, Roosevelt— 271, Babson—3.
United States Senator: Willis (R) — 396, Minton (D)—289.
Governor: Hillis (R)—329, Schricker (D)—356.
Lt. Governor: Dawson (R) —386, Ketchum (D) —299.
Secretary of State: Tucker (R) — 192, Donovan (D)-(ND)—497.
Judge of Supreme Court, 2nd Dist.: Fitzgerald (D)-(ND)—492, Richmond (R)—195.
Representative to Congress: Grant (R)-(ND)—422, Sands (D)—266.
State Representative: Bergan (R)-(ND)—506.
—Ed Drake
Clark Named President of Academy of Science
In its initial meeting of the scholastic year, the Notre Dame Academy of Science unanimously elected William Clark president. Other officers chosen were Charles Cunniff, vice-president, and Roderick Maguire, secretary. William Howland, John Hogan and Peter Moulder were named to the executive committee.
The Academy is the honorary society of the College of Science. It is composed of students who have attained an average of at least 87 percent for the preceding semester. Meetings are held on the second and fourth Mondays of the month.
A program of activities for the coming year has been tentatively set up. In keeping with the custom of former years, authorities in various scientific fields will, from time to time, be invited to speak at meetings. -	'
Professor Gurian Explains Hitler's Rise
As Reaction From Versailles Treaty
In a lecture given in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on Oct. 25, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor in the department of politics, explained Hitler’s method of conquest and reviewed Germany’s rise to power since the First World War.
Dr. Gurian began by explaining that
Prof. Waldemar Gurian
the Peace of Versailles was a peace which imposed very severe conditions upon Germany, but did not prevent Germany from rising again from her defeat. Germany began her regrowth in 1924 with the withdrawal of enemy armies of occupation. Although she had promised to keep certain areas demilitarized, and had made repararation payments, the bold defiance of many of the terms of the Versailles Treaty followed soon after Hitler’s accession to power. His first victory came in 1930 when his National Socialist Party became important in Germany. In 1933 Hitler became Chancellor under Von Hindenburg. In November of the same year Germany quit the League of Nations and began to break the terms of the Versailles Treaty.
Treaty With Poland
In 1934 Germany signed a ten-year treaty with Poland to respect each other’s boundaries. In 1933 Poland had tried to persuade France to invade Germany. France had refused, and Germany began to re-arm. In 1936 Germany took over the de-militarized zone, using the Ethiopian crisis for an excuse. Immediately she began to build fortresses along her frontiers.
Italo-German Relations
Friendly relations between Germany and Italy began in 1936 and grew steadily. In March of 1938 Germany occupied Austria. Mussolini knew that Italy by herself could not prevent Hitler from doing this, so he refrained from making any opposing move.
In 1938 Hitler demanded Sudeten Czechoslovakia. He was allowed to take it because Czech resistance would in
volve France, which, in turn, would involve England. Nevertheless, a big war crisis arose, and- France, England, Germany and Italy met at Munich. Hitler was allowed to have his own way and England signed a friendship pact with Germany.
Although Hitler had promised at Munich that he would make no more territorial demands, he sought further territory in 1939, from Poland this time. Poland’s resistance to his demands involved England and France and started the present war. Poland had previously been isolated by a non-aggression friendship pact between Hitler and Stalin.
Hitler’s Methods
Dr. Gurian gave Hitler’s methods as follows: According to Hitler, Germany lost the First World War because there was no political unity in Germany, no suitable organized propaganda inside Germany, too little militarism and no economic preparation in Germany. There is absolute unity under Hitler’s absolute leadership, and suppression of all opposition and criticism.
Hitler’s success in indoctrination is further advanced by a program of suitable mass propaganda which is easily distributed because there is no counterpropaganda with only one party. Propaganda is also used to weaken eventual opponents.
All economic activity is dictated with eventual war in view. Only those things necessary for war are important. Vital plants are built to supply needs when imports are cut off by war.
Reasons for Success
Dr. Gurian offered the following reasons for Hitler’s success: Countermethods opposed to him were insufficient. He was regarded as a politician at first whose promises would not necessarily be kept, for it was believed that he would never dare to fight for Germany’s supremacy in Europe.
France and England were not united. France rejected England’s appeasement plans, and England rejected France’s methods.
There was no serious will to fight in the democratic countries because they believed Germany would never dare to attack and therefore, could be easily crushed by the blockade. Hitler, consequently, had time to prepare thoroughly.
Dr. Gurian concluded his lecture with a discussion period during which he answered questions put to him by the audience.—Edward Drinkard
THE NOTRE
DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
John Devlin Represents N. D. in 158 Club
John Devlin, 28, off campus student, was the holder of number 158 which was the first number drawn in the draft. Devlin was one of 841 members of the student body, faculty and the Congregation of Holy Cross who were required to register under the Selective Service Act.
A number of students were affected by the draft but the exact number is not known because most of the student’s
New Band Members Wear Placards in New York
Old members of the marching band held initiation of the new’ members on the student special enroute to New York.
Each new member was required to wear a placard giving his name and address and shirt size. The latter for the benefit of upper classmen who might need an extra clean shirt in New York. While on the train they wore their clothes backwards. New members were also to have on hand at all times a supply of cigars, cigarettes, chewing glim and mints, for upper classmen who might desire them.
During the ride to New York each new member was taken to the baggage
serial numbers and order numbers are posted at their home boards and many have not yet found out their standings.
Among those whose order numbers fall in the first or second group are: Stephen C. Bocskey, of the department of biology, who had No. 192—second on the list; Leonard Kaier, of the purchasing office; Paul Santopietro, Alumni Hall; Bob Sullivan, Off Campus, Joe Stephen, Sorin Hall, and Bill Dillhoefer, Dillon Hall.
car where a group of old timers, under the chairmanship of John Stack, welcomed them into the ranks.
The culmination of the initiation was a scavenger hunt in New York City. In this each neophyte was instructed to get some souvenir of the city. These ranged from menus to matchfolders with some being more difficult to obtain.
One rookie was required to obtain a drumstick from the drummer in Glenn Miller’s band and have it autographed Another was asked to bring back three hairs from the tail of a traffic officer’s horse. One trombone player was asked to return with a menu from the Stork club.—Joe Stephen
Prof. Kearney Writes on
Legal Problems of Clergy
The publication of the tract, Liability of Ecclesiastical Persons from Torts, by Professor James.J. Kearney is the most recent legal publication issued by the Bureau for Research in Educational and Civil Church Law.
The ambitious project was instituted by Professor Kearney a little more than a year ago in order to provide the clergy of the United States with expert legal advice on problems arising daily in their work. During the past year the Digest of Church Laiv Decisions of 1939, a pamphlet which will appear annually, was published. Several summaries of the civil status of churches and educational institutions are also issued each year.
The Bureau is the first of its kind in the United States. Cases from all parts of the country, from Protestant and Jewish clergymen as well as Catholic, are brought to Professor Kearney’s attention and he prepares briefs for them. The types of cases handled vary considerably; they deal with litigations, the problems of state aid for parochial schools, the incorporation of churches and tax problems which repeat several times a year. One of the most interesting decisions in Church Law is contained in the Digest for 1939. It deals with the case of the religious sect known as the Jehovah’s Witnesses who refused to salute the American flag.
Professor Kearney received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame and his legal training at Loyola University of Chicago, where he was given a J.D., and at Catholic University from which he obtained his LL.M. He has practiced in Chicago and was associate editor of the Callaghan Publishing Co.
His most recent legal' writing, a fourth edition of Clark and Marshall on Criminal Law, was published by this company in September. It was two and a half years in preparation and has the distinction of being the third book to be published by a member of the law faculty of the University within the past year.—Richard Powers
Alliance Francaise
Any student interested in becoming a member of “Alliance Francaise,” French club in South Bend, has University permission to do so. Professor Benjamin J. Dubois is president of the organization for the coming year.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
10	THE
Chem. Dept. Accredited by American Society
Professor Henry B. Froning, dean of the College of Science and head of the department of chemistry, has released the information that the latest issue of the News Edition of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry carries an announcement of the accreditment by this Society of the department of chemistry of the University of Notre Dame. The Neivs Edition is the official news publication for the American Chemical Society.
Early in 1936 the president of the society appointed a committee for the purpose of determining whether or not American educational institutions offering courses for training professional chemists “possessed facilities and offered instruction which would permit students who are candidates for the A.B. or B.S. degree to fulfill the minimum requirements adopted by the American Chemical Society for the professional training of chemists.”
Assemble Information
In response to questionnaires, very complete information was assembled concerning the important phases of the work in chemistry, and a few closely-related fields, in approximately 450 universities and colleges. During the past year many of these institutions have been visited by leading authorities in chemistry. The entire work of the committee and its associates has been conducted without expense to the educational institutions.
Society Approves N.D. Chemistry Department
At the September, 1940, meeting of the society in Detroit, Mich., the committee reviewed the completed reports on the institutions which had been inspected and submitted the first list of schools for the approval of the society. It is especially gratifying to the alumni, faculty and student body that the department of chemistry was included in this list, which named a total of 65 schools. Additional lists of approved schools are to be published from time to time as rapidly as the committee can complete the inspection of the school and consideration of the data.
Students Included in Society
The accreditment of institutions offering professional training in chemistry brings to fulfillment the aim of many ed-' ucators and industrialists of the American Chemical Society who are cognizant of the growing need for more thorough training in chemistry, not only in academic work but also in control, development, and research in the chemical industries.
Dean Henry B. Froning
The American Chemical Society, which has about 25,000 members, is the largest scientific society in the world. The department of chemistry of the University serves as a nucleus for the St. Joseph Valley section of the society, and includes in its membership as associate members a large number of chemistry students of the University.
New Campus Chambers, Chaplain for Villagers
The Villagers’ club now has a chaplain, an adviser, and a campus meeting place for its 234 members, according to an announcement by President Warren A. Deahl.
The Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., of Dillon hall, has accepted the post of chaplain for the club, and Robert H. McAuliffe, director of off-campus students, has become adviser.
Carroll recreation hall has been designated by the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, as the official meeting place for off-campus students. The Villagers will use the hall as a lounge and place of recreation. Campus students, however, will still be welcome to play pool and ping-pong.
A new bulletin board has been installed in the hall where notices of interest to Villagers will be posted. Arrangements have also been made whereby off-campus students may study in Carroll study hall. The board of directors has revised and accepted the new club constitution drawn up last year by a committee headed by Robert Rodibaugh.
—Bob Uhl
Dr. Knowles Sees Little Chance of Discovering Oil on Campus
Rumors around the campus intimated that Notre Dame is rich in oil, and that engineers once drilled oil where the dining hall now stands. In order to satisfy local curiosity, Dr. Knowles B. Smith, head of the mining engineering department, was asked if he thought the rumor that Notre Dame and northern Indiana are oil producing, is true.
Fifty years ago, according to Dr. Knowles, there was excitement on the campus, where a hole was being drilled, when gas shot out of the casing, flamed for several days and then ceased to flow. The location of this hole was near the University barns in the vicinity of the present dining hall.
Geological Standpoint
From a geological standpoint this region is difficult to explore for oil due to the absence of any surface indications of favorable structure, such as anticlines, dones, and terraces in which petroleum is confined, Dr. Knowles pointed out.
The scientific methods of geophysical prospecting now being utilized successfully in various oil districts are less successful in this district because of the presence of thick glacial drift composed of sand, gravel, and clay which decreases appreciably the accuracy of the instrument used in a survey.
After a favorable structure has been located there must be sufficient accumulation of oil in the strata to produce a natural or induced flow. The most important of these essential conditions is porosity in the oil-bearing sand or rock which will permit oil saturation.
Successful Wells
From the large number of successful wells in the seven producing districts of Michigan, much geological information has been obtained. This is beneficial to the adjacent northern Indiana district where no organized campaign of drilling has ever been done.
Most of the oil in Michigan comes from the Traverse and Dundee limestones of Upper and Middle Devonian Ages where they have the necessary porous condition; on the other hand, where they are quite compact in structure, “dry” holes have resulted. In the southeastern part of Michigan some oil has been produced from the Trenton formation of the Ordovician Age, which has produced quantities of oil in some states.—Dick May
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
November 18 Deadline for Entries in
Knights of Columbus Vaudeville Show
OUR DAILY BREAD
The annual Knights of Columbus Vaudeville Show will be held early in December. An urgent invitation is extended to the entire student body to file entries as soon as possible. They may be placed any afternoon in either the K. of C. office in the basement of Walsh Hall or in the room of Bill Hickey, 118 Dillon. Entries for the show, which will be held the early part of December, must be in no later than Nov. 18, Hickey announced.
All students, singly or in groups, are eligible for entry except those who won money prizes last year. Prizes of §10,
Debaters Set to Equal 1939-40 Record
Twenty-two wins against eight losses was the enviable rcord set by last year’s varsity affirmative and negative debate teams. Last season’s “B” squads won ten debates and lost none. These records compared very favorably with records set by other Notre Dame debate squads in previous years. With hopes for equaling last year’s record or even bettering it, William J. Coyne, Director of Debate, announces the tryouts for this year’s varsity squad.
Tryouts for the varsity debating team will begin on Friday, Nov. 22, and will continue for three or four days. Each contestant will give a seven-minute constructive speech and a three-minute rebuttal on the national intercollegiate debating question: “Resolved, that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.”
The official interpretation of “union” defines it as possessing the following legal powers: (A) to make peace and war, to negotiate treaties and otherwise deal with the outside world, to raise and maintain a defense force; (B) to regulate commerce among member countries
Cronin Appointed
John J. Cronin, professor of sociology, has been appointed by the chief statistician of the Indiana state department of public welfare to a committee which will study child adoptions in the state of Indiana. The committee will work with the United States Children’s Bureau staff and Frank Itzin, graduate of the Notre Dame department of sociology, will direct the field studies for the committee.
§20, and §30 are offered by the K. of C. Campus and city clubs are especially invited to enter as a group under the club name.
Any sort of act or entertainment within reasonable bounds will be accepted. Instrumentalists and musicians are always good entertainment, and other acts may be in the form of sketches, group skits, monologues, dialogues, magic, and song and dance numbers.
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Bill Hickey are directing the show and a prominent committee of stage personalities will act as judges.—John Lynch
and foreign trade with other peoples.
These tryouts are open to all undergraduates in the University. All those who desire to participate are asked to hand in their names along with an expression of preference as to side to some member of the Department of Speech on or before Wednesday, Nov. 13. A contestant’s preference will be respected as far as possible. Those desiring to try out are also requested to state whether or not they will be here on Nov. 22, 23, or 24.
A schedule will be posted shortly after Nov. 13 giving the names and sides of the contestants. Those who survive the preliminary rounds are expected to change sides for the final tryouts to be held about ten days later.
This year’s schedule has not been completed as yet. It will probably include the Manchester Tournament, the Iowa City, Iowa-, and the tournament at Madison, Wis. Besides these there will be a. number of single debates. There is a possibility that participation in the two last mentioned tourneys will be replaced by a short trip.—Robert LeMense
Attends Ceremonies
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, attended, Oct. 25 and 26, the formal inauguration ceremonies for Dr. Howard Landis Bevis as new president of Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
Father Cavanaugh also attended the Alumnae Day events at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind., marking the centenary of the founding of the Congregation of Sisters of Providence in America and of the College.
LITURGY
The end of every mass is union with God.... Union with God is to have a share in the divine life.... This is the sense of the Offertory prayer we have been examining..’.. Every mass is a renewal of the out-pouring of this divine life.... Every feast celebrates anew the mystery of its bestowing, or honors the reward of its garnering in the souls of the just.
The feasts that occur at the transition from October to November are impressive in this regard.... Within a few days they offer these various elements for our edification.___ We must here make note of them in retrospect since there was no issue of the Scholastic last week.
Pope Pius XI instituted the feast of Christ the King on issuing the encyclical Quas Primus (1925).____In it he defines the end and the means of Catholic Action. ... The rampant error of the times is the denial of the supernatural.... No place for God means no place for his Church.... To this we must oppose the sovereignty of Christ both by precept and example.... This feast will recall men to a deeper realization of their dignity and responsibility. Its place in the Calendar just before the feast of All Saints is an admirable juxtaposition of cause and effect.... The Church Militant marches forward and merges with the Church Triumphant.... The Saints in glory beckon as beacon lights to those who are still fighting valiantly against the enemies of God and their souls. — Their victory is our hope.
All Souls Day invites us to remembrance. ... Only the debt of human frailty keeps them from the full enjoyment of the divine life.... The essence of the divine life is Charity, or the mutual love of the Divine Persons... The sameness of our elevated nature bids us remember that, “It is a holy and a wholesome thought to pray for the dead.” (2 Mach-abees 12,46)
These three days strengthen our common bond in the Communion of Saints... They further emphasize the thought of Pius XI that we learn more about divine truths from participation in the liturgy than we do from profound discourses____ They show us once again that the missal teaches us the way of life.
(Mass Calendar on page 27)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
[ike all guides, he I
George Meltzer
By James Meaney
George Meltzer is the official guide for the University Art Galleries, and is a smooth line of chatter to go with his gestures. And he has an art of his own — the social art of conducting people through the galleries in the least possible time, with the most ges-t u r e s, comments, and anecdote. For repeat customers, he has an entirely
different set of chatter, that fit the same gestures and- the same pictures. He picked up his professional talk mainly from experience, three years of it, from Mr. Burns, from books, from those he has guided.
The high point of George’s life as Art Guide came last year — a Women’s Sewing Circle invited him to give a public talk in South Bend, on tapestries. It was near examination time, so George didn’t have time to prepare a paper. So he spoke from memory, for a full twenty minutes, on aesthetics, tapestrology, the technics and theory of tapestries. At the end a kind lady paid him the compliment which all Art Guides consider the crowning tribute of a life’s work. She asked, “How long did you spend in Europe?”
But if you don’t visit and see George Meltzer at the Art Galleries, you will see him on the campus. George is never alone; he’s always walking with someone, saying goodbye to someone, or meeting someone. He will yell a greeting across two quadrangles. And his favorite boast is, “Look whom I’m with!”
Besides Art, George’s love is philosophy. He’s a philosopher to the core. He and anyone else make a philosophy seminar. And his one ambition in life is to “get his head in shape,” philosophically speaking. He has one great worry — how can he acquire an analytic mind? He considers himself satisfactory in synthesis, but analysis balks him. (He has never considered that it took quite a bit of self-analysis to discover that lack).
When anyone asks him what is his rush as he hurries along the campus, his
reply is, “I have only 46 more years to finish my work. Why did you stop me; now I’m two paragraphs behind!”
George worried the first semester of his freshman year. He was afraid he would flunk all his courses. But he soon exchanged that for another worry — whether he would get a magna or a maxima cum laude. At first he was going to study law (he worked in a law office for several years), but then he met philosophy. He never got over that first delicious taste; he majored in it, and still craves more. He hopes to teach it some day. At heart, he is Thomistic. In social life, he is Platonic, especially peripatetic, to music.
George loves football. Or rather, he loves to watch Gubanich and the football team. But he doesn’t watch the football
Notre Dame Decorates at Iowa Football Game
Notre Dame’s homecoming game with Iowa next week will be celebrated by fireworks, decorated halls, and the usual pep meeting.
Jack Burke, student council president, announced that a prize will be awarded for the best hall decorations. What the prize is to be is still in doubt, but a gentleman in Sorin, who knows a fellow in Walsh, was heard to mention that it may be a party for tthe residents of the winning hall. Last year’s winner was Dillon, which was dressed up with bunting, some borrowed hurdles, and Clashmore Mike in replica. Second place
team, nor the football, nor the crowds; just Gubanich. “My boy Gubanich.”
Prof. Eckart to Speak
The department of physics will sponsor a lecture by Professor Carl Eckart of Chicago University to be given in Room 110 of the Science Hall this afternoon at 4:30. The subject of Professor Eckart’s talk is “The Thermodynamics of Irreversible Processes.”
During the past week lectures were given by James C. Abbott and Sister M. Edward Pottebaum, O.S.F. All lectures were a part of the Physics Symposium on Theoretical and Applied Science.

in 1939 went to Walsh’s Irish washwoman.
Dr. Eddie Anderson, Notre Dame alumnus and coach of the team which upset N. D. last year, is being sought as guest speaker for the pep rally on Friday night.
Another glee club concert will be held between Dillon and Alumni halls Friday night. The last song-fest proved so popular that this second one is being put on by public demand. The evening will end with a fireworks display in old Brownson field.—James V. Cunningham
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Corby Statue Is Tribute To Civil War Chaplain
Standing but a short distance off one of the main-traveled paths on the campus, located before a beautiful background of St. Mary’s lake and fir and hemlock trees, is one of the few pieces of monumental statuary erected by the University to a Notre Dame priest. A bronze plaque fastened to the rock foundation of the statue reads as follows: “To the memory of Rev.- Father William Corby, C.S.C.........Chaplain
88th Regiment.... New York Infantry .... 2nd Brigade.... 1st Division.... 2nd Corps.... The Irish Brigade.... July 2nd 1863.” Fir trees, plaque and life-size statue of Father Corby are located on the south side of Corby hall, on a path seldom used by students hurrying to and from their daily activities.
Some people know of Father Corby as one of the early presidents of the University of Notre Dame; a few others know of him only because a residence hall bears his name; the statue on the south side of this residence hall pays tribute to a soldier-priest who served as chaplain in one of the most daring and fearless brigades of the Union Army—the famed “Irish Brigade.”
The statue depicts Father Corby, hand upraised in blessing, giving general absolution to members of his brigade who went into battle on July 2, 1863, the second day of the decisive Battle of Gettysburg. Previous to this three-day battle, these New York volunteers had engaged in other battles • that cut down their ranks in staggering numbers. At Fredericksburg, for example, the five regiments of troops under Gen. Thomas Meagher came within 20 yards of Confederate fire. After that battle had ceased, as the dead were being removed, it is said that all bodies of dead soldiers nearest the Confederate lines bore the shamrock of the Irish brigade on their blouses.
It was a decimated regiment that Father Corby faced that July morning when he gave general absolution to the soldiers. Standing on a large rock overlooking the beautiful rolling Pennsylvania countryside, the chaplain, according to reports of those who were present, looked much as he is represented by the statue before Corby Hall. The troops of the 88th Regiment came back to the battle that day inspired by the blessing of their beloved chaplain.
Another Notre Dame priest was serving at the time as chaplain with the 88th New York volunteers. He was a (Continued on page 29)
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
The student trip was undoubtedly the most significant movement of the year. It indicated that the men of Notre Dame are intensely interested in investigating reality in all its aspects, and that they are not satisfied with mere book learning and theorizing. The trip showed clearly, we think, that the students are aware of the need of intelligent research. We are confident that many young men visited the German-American in order to learn of the actual relations which exist between the United States and Germany; we are positive that others went to the Cotton Club to investigate the importance of the Southland’s principal product; we are certain that a great number examined Greenwich Village and the Republic in order to come to a better understanding of certain political and social institutions. All in all, we have nothing but loud huzzahs of praise for our ambitious, ambulating army of learning. Keep up the good work, boys, keep up the good work!
* * *
On campus things were quiet. Squirrels romped and frolicked and just had a gay old time for themselves without fear of reprisals; but they were about the only ones who showed signs of life during the week-end. On Saturday morning we overheard a plump, red fellow talking to his squirrel-wife, or girl-friend or sister (who knows?): “The trouble with these young men is that-they don’t know when they are in possession of good things. They are ignorant of the better things in life.” Lady squirrel looked at him and shrugged her shoulders the way lady squirrels do when they disagree with anyone. “Oh you,” she said, “as if you were never young yourself!” “Well, they came here to study didn’t they,” started the plump, red squirrel. But we left at that moment. We had heard it all before.
* * *
At the Library strange conditions prevailed for the weekend. The silence was so complete there that we were forced to leave. We could not endure the place without the familiar slamming of books, scraping of chairs, and wisps of whisperings.
* * *
For a while last week we felt sure that we had discovered the reason for the unusual ability of the University’s
right halfback. We saw a fellow take a small magazine from the halfback’s pocket, and, by some severe twisting of our neck, we were able to read the title. It was “Super-Man.” The halfback quickly destroyed any thoughts we might have had about writing an “I-owe-my-success-to” story, it seems that the comic booklet was not his — it was the property of the second team quarterback. That, of course, made everything all right.
* * *
The political rally which burst upon the students after dinner last Monday night came as no surprise to us. We knew that something of the sort would happen. You see, one of the chief rally-ers was a fellow who has promoted several “sensational” events recently: typing and shorthand courses for University men at Mr. Puterbaugh’s College of Commerce in South Bend, Glee Club serenade after pep rallies, etc. He is just full of joie de vivre, that’s all. And then there is another violent and vociferous fellow whose chief aim for the past few months had been to “get that mad man out of the White House.”’ So we expected that political demonstration.
* * *
We hear that there is a job waiting this very minute for some industrious young man who is sturdy of body, and who is free from classes on Saturday. The Art School, we are told, is seeking a model for their real life class on Saturday mornings. The fellow who poses regularly has been forced to the sidelines for a while. And he will remain on the side-lines until the paint which was smeared on his skin during the monogram initiations has disappeared. It is quite clear that constant physical contact has dulled the sensibilities of those letter men. They have absolutely no regard for the progress of fine art.
* * *
Many stories have come to our ears about the happenings in New York, and, as usual, most of them are very, very funny. But the one that we like best is the tale told by our good neighbor. Seeking Grand Central Station he turned into the first large building that he came to on Forty-second Street. Of course, it wasn’t Grand Central; it was the Pub-
(Continued on page 28)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Possibility of Peace
One of the signs of the times is a four-inch headline in a Chicago newspaper, which promised, about two weeks ago, PEACE WITHIN FIVE DAYS — in Europe. There are many peace reports coming out of Europe these days. Most of them emanate either directly from Vatican City, or from Rome, and usually the name of the Pope is mentioned in them. They say that Pius XII is praying for peace, that he is sending peace emissaries out among the belligerents, or that he is acting as intermediary for them. Reporters in Europe for American papers seldom fail to mention him when they speak of peace, for they feel sure that if peace is going to be established the Pope will be in some way involved.
But in spite of these hopeful signs, which some observers label wishful thinking, it is questionable whether peace is possible at this time. The balance of power in Europe has not changed sufficiently since the beginning of the war, over a year ago, to make one of the belligerents willing to sacrifice whatever the other demands. When the war began Hitler was emphatic in his declaration that either England or Germany must be crushed. He would allow no halfway measures. He repeated this again when the Battle of London began.
At the same time Prime Minister Chamberlain said that England would fight until Hitler was ousted from his position as Chancellor of Germany, the
Nazi Party deprived of power, and Poland returned to her former freedom. Winston Churchill has repeated this in new words, but with the same meaning and intent, revised only to include the newly conquered victims of Germany.
Since the statement by Hitler that he would fight to the finish of Germany or England, the Nazis have conquerd Poland, Denmark, Norway, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, and France. He has had the help of Russia in subjugating the Scandinavian countries, and Russia is still sending supplies through conquered Poland to Germany. He has enjoyed the fighting support of Italy in “stabbing France in the back,” and lately in an attempt to get control of the Mediterranean region. Finally, Hitler has signed a ten-year pact with Japan and Italy, the terms of which are most favorable to him. These are tremendous gains for Hitler and make his present position an exalted one.
England has not fared so well. France dropped out of the fight last June. And the geographical bulwark that Belgium and Holland once formed, is now under German control. Troop bases and airfields dot this territory, within forty miles of London. Part of British East Africa has been lost to Italy; Japan threatens again in the Far East. And hundreds of thousands of tons of shipping have been sunk by submarines.
Before any peace can be established in Europe, the belligerents must have a
common factor on which to begin negotiations. None exists, however, for Hitler has not changed his determination to ex- a terminate England, and as his victories continue he becomes even less magnani- | mo us than he was in the beginning. Who | can say he is willing to give up the territories he has won? It would be absurd to think that he has suddenly become interested in Christian justice and wants to restore Poland, Denmark, Norway, Holland, Belgium, Luxmbourg, and France out of a new love for them.
For a different reason England is in no position to sue for peace. Churchill in his addresses has remained firm in his resolve to restore the captured countries to their former autonomy. At the same time England is on the defensive. She has been battered until East London is in ruin. The Italians are threatening her grip on the Mediterranean, and Spain and Japan are wavering, liable to jump into the war against her any day. England will concede nothing — her spokesmen have made that clear. And it is difficult to picture the present exalted Germany giving up her loot in order to make the world safe for English trade and colonization.
Until some tremendous turn has taken place in the war, there is no prospect of peace. Until the German army becomes incapable of keeping the conquered countries under submission, of continuing the battles of England and of the Balkans; until Italy has either been disastrously defeated in Greece, on the Mediterranean, or in Africa; or until one of the three British fleets in the Far East, in the Mediterranean, or at home has been destroyed — there can be no negotiation for peace. These tremendous military convulsions must take place in some measure, or talk of peace is futile and does not face reality. That is, unless there comes a change of heart in Germany, for example, among the mass of people, whereby the Nazi regime becomes unpalatable because it is un-Christian and therefore unjust. Only then a great military disaster need not take place. But such a change of heart can only be the product of the prayers for peace of the rest of the world. So far they have not availed.
There is another aspect, too. Before a political peace is realized, there can come to all the peoples of Europe and of the rest of the world, a peace of soul that is internal and removed from the realm ' of politics and geography. Perhaps this is what the Pope is praying for now, in order that a later peace might be negotiated in a spirit of Christian justice.
—William C. McGoivan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
JOE
By JERRY SMITH
The afternoon had been the dismal end of a day that seemed to be fighting for life, but rather unsuccessfully. I had chosen this gloomy room half a flight down because it was unlikely to produce anything distracting. But my eyes kept returning to a table in the rear by the only window. Drooped across the table was the figure of a well-built young man. He had collapsed limply with his nose pointed towards his final effort: a tall slender glass of a ruddy liquid which glowed faintly in the only ray of light that penetrated the dusky room. This sentry-like glass had been the successor to a large group: short fat glasses, glasses with gracefully curved torsos but mere lines below the waist, true cylinders, and types not unlike the lower halves of overstuffed generals. Their array was a wilderness of irregularity; but the patchwork laid by the graceful curve of green, the stubby quadrangle of gold, the generous chunk of lemon, the slices and specks of brown, and the various shapes and heights of rose, all neatly divided by strips of white foam, transformed this drab table into a mosaic masterpiece.
My tentative tap on his shoulder brought forth a low moan. Gently, I asked for the name of this young Michelangelo. He lisped, “Choe,” which I took to be Joe. His last name must have been either Russian or Polish for it was lost in the sputter as his tongue smothered the consonants in the kind of babble that finishes a soda.
Joe swung his feet to the tempo of his words as he rolled open his eyes and began to lecture. Further observation revealed that a period means a sharp kick on the shins, but I hesitated to ask about these impulsive little expressions of sincerity obviously added for emphasis.
Men in Joe’s condition are apt to reveal their sins in an inexplicable loss of pride, but Joe was an exception. He was proud of his sins. After a preliminary clucking of his full throat, he began with women.
His principal delight consisted in careening into unsuspecting women and dumping their handbags and examining the spilled contents while he pretended to assist in recovering them. Joe could
ascertain the lady’s vanity by comparing the cost of her compact with the cost of her shoes; a book revealed an intellect; the number of slips of paper indicated the limitations of her memory; keys, her complexes; handkerchiefs, some neurosis. There were other subtleties, more involved, which we may try to explain in a future, more ambitious moment.
Hastily, fearing my cornering tactics, he tackled communism with an enthusiasm designed to close his notes on women. He was a little pinkish by his own admission, and he was anxious to tell me why:
“I was standing on the steps of the State hotel in Detroit last week along about four* one afternoon. There was a man eating in the window of a restaurant directly across the street. I was studying him. Ya know, ya can tell plenty about anybody by the way he eats. Now take this fellow. He was eating waffles in the French pastry manner. He handled his fork the way a seamstress sews.
I interrupted to inquire about Joe’s threatened subject: communism.
"Oh, yeah, well, w’e’Il get to. that. Did you ever watch people pay for their food?”
I settled back, prepared to martyr myself for the sake of receiving a few learned observation on the dishonest who carry lead half dollars or use slugs in the automat. My face must have held a tireless expression for Joe continued without pausing fox’ an answer.
“Ya gotta be careful of people who look in three or more pockets before discovering they left their billfolds at home. Don’t trust business men who count their change twice, for they don’t trust themselves. If a person dares to face a cash register with an open, frank look, he is honest. During periods when half of our population is dependent on contributions of one kind or another, only the foolhardy will bring forth a fistful of crisp bills. . . .”
Sympathetically, this time, “Joe, communism . . . remember?”
‘Uh ... oh yeah, well, a big black limousine drew up to the curb in front of the hotel and a black derby, black cigar, heavy gold watch chain, and tailored suit stepped out. Look at the social
inequality in this country, why the . . .” Joe had taken his chin from the heel of his hand and there was grave danger of his becoming wide awake as he tore into his favorite subject. In one minute fiat, he delivered, with honest vigor, the argument which relates the unhappiness of workers who used to create fine products and who now work for men with black limousines and whirl a single nut onto a bolt. But he finally got back to his hotel front scene.
“This stuffed shirt threw a cigarette butt into the gutter. A tramp, whose clothes were baggy but clean from continual brushing, stepped to the curb, looked quickly about, bent as if to tie his shoelaces, picked up the butt and hurried on. I couldn’t help thinking of this beggar as Europe and the limousine tramp as America. Personally, I wouldn’t blame the beggar a bit if he swung on the first man who sung, “Hooray for limousines, I’ve got a gold watch chain and you haven’t.”
People were beginning to stare. Joe was weakening fast; eyeing the remaining glass with the look of a Senator who has just finished a four-day filibuster.
Frantic, for fear he might lose his voice at any moment, I launched into a series of questions; intent upon recording for posterity the life of this master psychologist.
Questions only brought an irritated expression to his face as though he grieved being drawn from his platform. However, he confessed being an unemployed politician who had failed to interest Henry Ford in a design for a super automobile; who had left his wife w’ith his last fifty dollars in Detroit; who was requesting transportation to Washington via friends in Columbus, Rochester, Elmira, and Wilkes-Barre.
Joe resented my questions; reached for his glass again and tipped back his head. . . .
The draught refreshed him for he opened his eyes momentarily and besought me earnestly not to publish anything he had revealed in a weak moment for he was going to write a book soon and wanted his ideas to strike the public with the freshness of Spring.
Then Joe slumped back to the position in which I had discovered him.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Chastened Irish Squad Meets Navy
Middies Record Promises Real Test
Gridders Out to Regain Lost Prestige in East
Nov. 9—Notre Dame vs. Navy at Municipal Stadium, Baltimore; Time, 2:00 p.m. E.S.T.; Probable attendance, 60,000. That’s the set-up for what promises to be one of the 1940 football season’s most thrilling games. Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish are out to dehorn the Navy Goat; but will they do it?
The Middies’ record of five games won and one lost and the Irish five and none record may as well be tossed to the wind, for when Notre Dame meets the service teams anything can happen, and does. (Last week’s affair in New York is a good example).
The Irish may play the whole game without the services of Captain “Moose” Peipul who has not fully recovered from injuries received in the Illinois game. According to Coach Layden’s remarks Tuesday morning, there will be several new faces on the number one outfit this week. His statement was to the effect that every man on the squad had an equal chance for a first team berth. The many changes made in Tuesday’s workout certainly bore out this statement. Mr. Layden praised no one in behalf of their showing last Saturday except to say that the Army team played a fine game. He offered no ex-’ cuses for Notre Dame’s failure “to get
going”; but he did say that the team seemed to have read the wrong newspaper clippings. The papers all razzed the Irish but they also remembered to - mention the fact that the Army team that was set for the Irish definitely was not the same team that lost to Cornell by a 45 to 0 score.
Notre Dame will enter tomorrow’s game the favorite but will have to play its best to win because the Goat’s horns are whetted for this one. The Irish can and will win by playing the brand of football they are capable of playing,
Assistant Coach Bill Cerney who scouted the Middie team brought back the report that Notre Dame will not meet a good Navy team but two fine Navy teams. Major “Swede” Larson, the Navy Academy’s head coach, has been alternating the first two elevens as units and, as the records show, has had great success. The strongest third string outfit at the Academy in several years gives Major Larson ample reserve power.
Navy will probably start with the following lineup: Ends, Captain Dick Foster and Lars Wanggaard, Jr.; tackles, Joe Donahoe and Bill Chewning; guards, Joe Sliwka and Bill Vitucci; center Ed Sims; and in the backfield John Harrell at quarter, Cliff Lenz and Bill Busik at the halves and Al Cameron, fullback. Five of this first team are
sophomores: two linemen, O’Donahoe and Vitucci and Harrell, Busik and Cameron in the backfield. Captain Foster, Lenz and Sims, all seniors, are outstanding players for the Midshipmen.
—Bill Reynolds
Interhalf Soccer Begins
Next Week; Badin Favored
Local soccer enthusiasts are kicking again; they are back on Freshman hall field engaging in practice games as warm-ups for the inter-hall elimination tourney. Already seven hall teams have line-ups under the direction of sophomore Phy Ed men and are preparing for official play. With interhall football occupying the field soccer games have been delayed but arrangements have been made to alleviate conflict in the use of the field.
Elimination for the championship will begin a week from Sunday thus giving other halls a chance to enter their teams in the play. So far Badin and Brownson in addition to all the freshmen halls have engaged in practice games and judging by the trouncing Carroll gave Zahm, the frosh dorm boys appear to offer a rugged challenge to the favored Badin team.
Last year’s interhall championship was won by Brownson lead by the classy booting of “Mac” McBride, with the St. Louis club team taking the non-league title. The fact that McBride is playing for Badin this year is one of the reasons that the Bog Boys are favored. However beside this star wing, Badin’s team is loaded with former St. Louis club players. They anticipate having George Murphy keep the ball out of their goal and McBride to put it through the opponent’s.
For the various club teams that have participated in soccer competition in the past, the director of inter-mural sports is planning a spring round robin tourney. Then the St. Louis Club will again defend the title they have held since the rejuvenation of soccer on the campus.
—John Quinn
Irish Unscored Upon
In Last Three Games
Some 78,000 odd people left Yankee Stadium after last Saturday’s Notre Dame-Army grid classic in a somewhat dazed condition, a look at the score would tell part of the story but only part. The Notre Dame grid machine which had run over four opponents in rough-shod fashion had hit a snag, the snag was in the form of a group of men from the United States Military Academy known as the “Cadets.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	17
THE
It seems that the sports writers all over the country made a present of the game to the Irish, they also gave some 30 points or more with it but then they forgot to tell the Army of their plans. Every one agreed that if the Irish turned on the pressure it would look like another Carnegie track meet. That is, everyone agreed but Army. The game that was supposed to be a rout almost turned into a riot as on the opening kickoff, Bobby Saggau fumbled the ball and an alert Army end fell on it. From then on till the final gun plays were run off in rapid succession; Army dug in, and the team that had been pushed around all year showed a complete change of form. It was ironical that Hank Mazur, who played the greatest game of his career, should figure in the play that brought about defeat for his team. He passed into the flat with no one covering — and changed the outcome of the game; Steve Juzwik got in front of the ball and raced 80 yards for Notre Dame’s score and the winning touchdown. The game was a typical Notre Dame-Army battle, it bore out one point, the underdog was anything but what his name implies.
On Oct. 26 the Irish traveled to Champaign where they handed the Illini a 26-0 defeat. Right half, Steve Juzwik was outstanding for Notre Dame, scoring two touchdowns, Bagarus and Crimmins made the other two — Saggau showed fine passing ability. Capt. Piepul suffered injuries which have hampered him since the encounter.
—Joe Lafferty
Lyons, Badin Lead League In Interhall Football
With half their schedule already completed, the Interhall gridders plunge down the home-stretch this week-end, and from all indications the three remaining weeks of the campaign promise to break all pre-existing records for thrills and excitement as the teams in both loops battle for the leadership and the right to meet in the finals for the University championship sometime in late November.
Results of the games played on Sunday, Oct. 27, found Breen-Phillips supplying the biggest upset of the season thus far, in routing a heretofore unbeaten Cavanaugh eleven, to the tune of 18-0. Zahm turned back Brownson, 130, and Carroll forfeited its game to Badin. St. Edward’s drew a bye.
Over in the other league, Lyons remained unbeaten, chalking up its third victory in as many starts, by subduing
a stubborn Alumni eleven by a 7-6 score. Walsh topped Sorin, 6-0, while Dillon triumphed over Howard, 12-7. Morrissey drew a bye.
Inasmuch as the Army week-end left the campus nearly deserted, the games planned for last Sunday were not played as scheduled, so at this writing only a few of the scores are available. In League 1, Brownson handed Carroll its fourth straight setback, winning by a 6-0 score, and Badin trimmed Zahm, 130. Cavanaugh is scheduled to meet St. Edward’s, while Breen-Phillips draws a bye. In League 2 warfare, Morrissey jolted Howard by a 13-0 score, while Walsh is scheduled to battle Lyons, and Sorin goes up against Alumni. Dillon draws a bye.
Standings of teams in their respective leagues are as follows:
League 1
W. L. T.
Badin ..................... 2	0	1
St. Edward’s............... 1	0	1*
Breen-Phillips ............ 2 10
Cavanaugh.................. 2	1	0*
Brownson................... 2	2	0
Zahm ...................... 12 0
Carroll ................... 0	4	0
League 2
W. L. T.
Lyons ..................... 3	0 0*
Morrissey ................. 2	10
Dillon .................... 2	10
Walsh....................... 1	1 1*
Sorin......................... 110*
Howard -.................... 0	3 1
Alumni .................... 0	2 0*
* Not including games of Nov. 3 schedule.
Sunday’s Schedule
League 1 — Cavanaugh vs. Zahm; Brownson vs. St. Edward’s; Badin vs. Breen-Phillips; Carroll draws a bye.
League 2 — Howard vs. Sorin; Walsh vs. Morrissey; Dillon vs. Alumni; Lyons draws a bye.—Jim Clemens
Faught Sweeps Frosh Net
Meet, Lyle Joyce Second
Bob Faught, rated by Coach Walter Langford as one of Notre Dame’s best tennis prospects in recent years, annexed the freshman crown in the annual Fall Tennis Tourney last Wednesday by defeating Lyle Joyce, Carroll Hall, in the finals, 6-1, 6-4, 6-2. Joyce, a brother of Captain Jack Joyce of this year’s varsity, provided much stiffer opposition than any preceding contestant had against Faught, but wilted before the scintillating attack of his opponent in the final set of their hard fought match.
Faught, who had been an overwhelming favorite before the opening of the meet, continued his sweep to a championship in the semi-finals when he breezed past Bob Sallows, Cavanaugh Hall, 6-0, 6-0, 6-0. In the other semi-final match Joyce defeated Phil Clarke, Breen-Phillips Hall, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2.
In comparing the frosh winner with Dan Canale, ace of this year’s varsity squad, Coach Langford pointed out that while there is no actual basis for comparison, he is of the opinion that Faught would provide Dan with the stiffest kind of opposition. The Cleveland boy, who has made a very favorable showing in junior tourneys throughout the midwest, has the advantage of added height and weight over Canale, thus providing more potential power in his drives. A match between the two was tentatively scheduled several times, but due to the length of the freshman tourney and recent inclement weather the meeting between the two for this fall has been cancelled.
—Ray Donovan
Irish Hope to Avenge
1939 Defeat by Iowa
Next Saturday Notre Dame will entertain Iowa’s Hawkeyes in the Stadium. But, mindful of last year’s 7-6 defeat, the Irish plan to favor their homecoming guests with an exhibition of faultless football. Layden’s men are out to avenge a defeat that removed them from unbeaten ranks in 1939.
No longer do the Hawkeyes boast a backfield sparked by All-American Nile Kinnick, and missing this year is Erwin Prasse, stellar end. But Iowa’s line will stand up to any in the land with such outstanding tackles as Jim Walker, South Bend boy, and Mike Enich, iron man of Iowa’s defense. .
Offensively the Hawkeyes are weak compared to last year’s club. No coach, Eddie Anderson included, could help but feel the loss of such an all-around back as the great Kinnick. No doubt is there that he was to Iowa what Harmon is to Michigan, Franck is to Minnesota, Reagan is to Penn, and Juzwik is to Notre Dame.
As a shoe-filler for Kinnick, Coach Anderson has uncovered Bob Green. Unequal to Kinnick as a kicker and passer, Green surpasses Nile as a runner.
The Hawkeyes are dangerous because of defensive strength, lack manpower for steady offensive drive. But Anderson and his assistants are out to make it two in a row against the Irish, and last year showed Notre Dame that Iowa can cause plenty of trouble.—John Patterson
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
BY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO —
In June Notre Dame lost McIntyre, Finneran, and Mooney, first, second, and third-string centers on last year’s football team. And everyone but Joe Boland and Elmer Layden was worrying about the center spot when football practice started this fall. Now, after seeing Robert Osterman perform at center for the first four games, everyone feels as the coaches do — happy and satisfied. For Osterman has been tackling, backing up
the line, and smashing enemy pass-plays like a veteran pivot man. And were it not for his inexperience in snapping back the ball from center Bob could be rated on a par with the top-noch Notre Dame centers of the past.
Bob Osterman is one of three brothers who have won athletic glory at St. Theresa High School in Detroit, Mich. He played fullback, tackle and end on the football team, and center on the basketball team. And he won All-State honors in both sports.
Bob played end during his freshman and sophomore years at
Notre Dame, but Layden felt that his size and weight could be used to a better advantage at center. So Bob was shifted to the pivot job on the B squad.
Bob admits that he didn’t like his new position when he first made the change. But realizing that it offered him a better opportunity to make the varsity squad he determined to stick it out. Osterman had some trouble learning how to pass the ball from center last year. Consequently, he saw little action, appearing only for several minutes in the Army game. In spring practice, however, Bob took over McIntyre’s spot on the first team and showed such an im
provement in his center play that he was awarded the first-string job on this year’s varsity squad.
The big game of the year for Osterman comes up this Saturday when Notre Dame meets the Navy. For when he lines up against the Middies he will be facing Jim Harbreck, former center, and teammate at St. Theresa High. And Bob wants to show Harbreck that he has
learned a good deal about playing center these past two years.
Bob Osterman is a member of the Phy. Ed. school and lias already received several offers to coach in Michigan when he graduates. Outside of his own efforts on the football field, Bob’s interest is centered on the doings of his younger brother, Don. Don is an end at St. Theresa, and 'at present is leading the Detroit high school scorers with a total of 56 points for four games. Bob thinks that Don is a much better football player than he himself ever was when he played in high school, and he expects his brother to play a lot of football when he comes to Notre Dame.
Fall Handicap Results Forecast Track Season
A handicap track meet, the annual climax to the fall practice season, was held Oct. 22, and 23 in Cartier field. Medals were awarded to the men who placed first, second, and third in each event.
In the finals of the 100 yard dash, chunky Bill Woods posted a mark of .10.4 to lead Frank Sheets, and Al Dexter to the tape. Sheet’s 23.3, however, excelled in the 220. Jay Gibson and Woods trailed the Alumni hall speedburner. Bill Dillon skimmed to twin victories in the 80 yard high-hurdles and 140 yard low-hurdles. The Brownsonite posted a flashy .09.8 in the shorter distance and a 16.3 in the latter event. Ezra Smith, Frank Sheets, John Nicholson, and John Garvey were all runnersup. Veteran Ray Roy, followed by Ted Hom and George Schiewe, annexed the quarter-mile in the fast time of .51. Through the brilliant efforts of Ed Dunham and George Ahem, Carroll Hall exercised a virtual monopoly in the 880 and mile. The Carroll pair finished one-two in both events. Dunham hit the jackpot with a 1:58.7 half and a 4.39 mile. Cross-country men, Tony Maloney, Ollie Hunter, and Frank Conforti waged a bitter two mile duel which finally saw Maloney pump home in front in the excellent time of 9:49.
Moving along to the field events, Jim Delaney proved foremost in discusthrowing with a 137 foot heave. Javelinthrowing laurels fell to Bob Vicars by reason of his 167 foot toss. Taking full advantage of an eight inch handicap Bill Nicholson, with a 5 foot 10 inch leap, edged out his fellow high-jumper, Keith O’Rourke, who soared over the bar at 6 foot 4.	,
Coach Mahoney announces that six Blue and Gold standard bearers will represent Notre Dame, tomorrow, in the Indiana state cross-country meet at Lafayette.
The six runners selected by Mahoney are: Captain Joe Olbrys, Paul Scully, Bill Bogan, and three sophomores Tony . Maloney, Frank Conforti and Ollie Hunter.—Frank L. Kunkel
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Splinters From the Press Box —	JAMES NEWLAND—
The good ship Annapolis manned by Laughing Swede Larson and a crew of stalwart sailors tonight stands ready to sail heavy seas tomorrow. This crew of potential lieutenants, captains and admirals have been minutely trained in the operation intricacies of what is known as destroyers, those big bad boats jammed from stem to stern with heavy, bulging, long-nosed guns. The Midshipmen are examining last minute details. They are polishing their weapons, polishing them to destroy a Notre Dame record — a record of five consecutive victories. Yes, it’s Anchors Aweigh tonight in Baltimore.
or that guy.” So it goes, on and on. This “necessary misfortune” will always show its unwanted face. Yes, it was even whispered here on this campus by the “master-minds of football.”
This is not a pep talk. No, just facts. Notre Dame will not be at full strength for the Midshipmen. And Navy is tough, despite the fact Pennsylvania came back strong from their Michigan defeat to win over hearty Swede Larson’s fleet last week at Penn. Prior to this setback they had been victorious in five games played. We pick the Irish by at least one touchdown and possibly two. We have seen
them play and we know they can come through tomorrow.
Every month ha* its rainy, cloudy days. So also every football team ha* it* off day*. And just as -sunshine follow* rain, so also does a good football team come back strong to infuse sunshine in the hearts of its followers. We think 65,000 fans in Baltimore’s Municipal Stadium are going to be treated to a real show tomorrow. They might see Notre Dame pick up where they left off against Illinois. There’s never a dull mornent in a Navy-Notre Dame game.
NOTHING ABOUT SPORTS
Dear Splinters:
This chain must not be broken. Started many, many years ago it went west with the pony express, north with Rogers Rangers and south of the border with Caeser Romeo in The Cisco Kid. You
High literary phrases about the Fighting Irish such as were prominent before the Army game were toned down to a whisper this week — and justly so, perhaps. That game in New York was a scare and Lady Luck was on the side of the Irish, let there be no mistake about it. The Army game proved the strength of the underdog against, at the same time, the letdown of the favorite. The heartbeat of Army players, tremendously inspired with the desire to win, thumped faster and faster last Saturday and they climbed to unprecedented heights in holding the favored Irish within their own 50 yard line, 59 minutes . of that game. This is true. But there are two sides to every story.
You can’t keep a good man down. If and when he regains consciousness, he’s going to get back on his feet and swing from all angles. This is what can and might happen to Notre Dame tomorrow. We are confident of one thing. They have the power, the speed and the exactness to bomb this strong ship Annapolis.
History, as usual, repeated itself the past week. The same old cry of the so-called second-guessers was prominent in many sections- Just so long as the team is bowling over all opposition with devilmay-care abandon — it’s the greatest in the country. But let it falter just once to win by a narrow margin — and then the players get kicked in the teeth by those who “know all.” It happened two years ago when Southern California defeated Notre Dame, 13 to 0. It happened last year when Nile Kinnick and Iowa scored a 7 to 6 victory in Des Moines. “So and so should have done this or that. Why didn’t Layden play this guy
Come in and see how Douglas has scored again ' with the Season’s varsity favorites in snappy-styled brogues and plateau lasts. Popular "antiqued” tans, sleek blacks, pliant, husky leathers that create values in smart appearance, comfort and long-wear you can’t match anywhere at Douglas prices.
Shod
210 South Michigan Street .
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
can see what perils people have undergone to keep this chain unbroken.
Terrible fates have befallen anyone who broke the chain. For instance, if you fail to send it on you might develop fallen arches, your next permanent might be crinkly, someone might bum your last cigarette, you might get a hang nail, or horrors of horrors, you might even — I do hate to mention this terrible fate which might be yours — some day you might even get a pink slip I
Now the chain is just too, too simple to keep going. All you have to do is — well, really it’s so, so simple, — is just send §20.00 to the first person on this list and only 50 copies of this letter to each of the others on the list.
Isn’t it going to be fun? Sit right down now and send the $20.00 to the first name on the list and then all you’ll have left to do is to make 400 copies of the letter to send on. Just 50 to each person. Please don’t send more. Remember what will happen if this chain is broken! Signed, The Man Who Wasn’t There, Hedy LaMarr, Sistie Dahl, Olive Oil, Dan Dunn, Sea Biscuit, Babs Hutton, Wallace Berry, Donald Duck and Dagwood Bumstead.
Slide Rules Ball to be Staged
The “Selur Edils Ball” to be held Saturday evening is in reality the American Society of Mechanical Engineers’ “Slide Rules Ball.” It will be held at the Progress Club in South Bend from 8 to 11:30 p.m. Bids at one dollar per will provide music by the Modern-aires and a floor show.
AS I SEE IT
By John Patterson
rKl
Something new and different along the lines of prediction — take the best eleven players Notre Dame has faced so far; compare them with an all-star club made up of future opponents; draw conclusions from this infallible information, conclusions as to the Irish chances for national championship honors.
The best ends Notre Dame has faced this year are Bob Ison of Georgia Tech and Joe Betz of that other Tech team. Coming up are Bob Zoeller, midshipman, and Al Butherus of Northwestern. Betz and Ison get the nod.
Alf Bauman of Northwestern and Iowa’s Mike Enich are certain to be prominent citizens at tackle against the Irish. Sanders of Georgia Tech and Tommy Riggs (without Betty Lou) of Illinois can’t equal Alf and Mike.
Ben Sohn of U.S.C. will be the biggest guard of the future. And Northwestern’s Joe Lokanc is a troublemaker for fellows like Piepul and Juzwik. So far Army’s Dick Hennessee can be called the lineman of the year by anyone connected with Notre Dame; Neil Cavette, Georgia Tech’s punting lineman, kicked up plenty of fuss against the Irish.
Cadet Bill Gillis played fine football at the center post last week, but Paul
Distinction Plus
These handsome PRE-FLEX Shoes offer you a unique combination: approval-winning fashion authenticity, plus healthful "first-step comfort.” True flexibility, belying the rugged appearance of these reproductions of custom-made shoes. Try on a pair today.

Formal clothes are not a problem if you will let us help you. ADLER-ROCHESTER, readymade—and beautifully made—tails or tuxedo —for $35.00 and $40.00. Evening coats— raglan-sleeve cut with silk lapels....$35.00
Tophats, $ 10.00; Ties (black or white) $ 1.00 up
Enjoy the Sophomore Cotillion and also be ready for the holiday Functions at Christmas time.
SPECIAL RENTAL PRICE — We will fit you out completely in tails or tuxedo — shirt, tie, tophat__________________________$6.00
Just give us thirty-six hours notice!
Special Process Shoes
byGrctshgiKyiat*
PARKER-WINTERROWD
1IS1/, - 1171/j N. Main Street
JOHN SIEVERT 234 Alumni
CAPT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL 107 Alumni
JOHN RYAN 337 Walsh
Other Shoes from $3.28 up
120 So. Michigan St.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Hiemetz, the Wildcat from Evanston, promises more opposition.
Backs faced — Mazur, Army; Bosch, Georgia Tech; Lutryskowski, Army; Frishholtz, College of Pacific. Backs coming up — Hahnenstein, Northwestern; Green, Iowa; Robertson, U.S.C.; DeCorrevont and Clawson, Northwestern.
These impressive names bring memories of tense moments on the one hand, worries about weeks to come on the other. If the Irish had to choose between the two all-star elevens, they would probably take the past opponents as a warmup contest for a real battle with that team of future challengers.
If Mazur was tough, Hahnenstein will be a superman; if Riggs got in the way, Enich will be the proverbial immovable object; if Gillis followed Notre Dame plays well, Hiemetz will be in the plays.
Notre Dame has beaten the breathers. Army had the Irish doing most of the heavy breathing, but rumor has it there were Washington Redskins in the Cadet ranks — no plain, pure, hapless college team could give Notre Dame so much guff. But back to the point, now that the easy ones are marked in the win column, thorough preparation is in drder for these menaces to come.
Layden’s only worries — Navy, Iowa, Northwestern, U.S.C., especially the Wildcats.
Von Trapp Singers
Will Appear Here
The von Trapp Family Singers will open this year’s entertainment season at Notre Dame on Monday, Nov. 18, at Washington Hall. This unique group is composed of the wife, five daughters, and two sons of Baron George von Trapp, and is led by the gifted young composer, Dr. Franz Wasner.
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., announced that this concert is to be sponsored by the College of Music. Members of the Glee Club will usher at the concert. The concert will not be formal, but students are asked to dress suitably for the occasion.
The von Trapp group is unequaled for novelty and beauty of entertainment. The program provides variety, artistry and gaiety to please every type of concert goer. Great music of the past is featured by the group on instruments for which it was written — the spinet, the block flute, and the viola da gamba. The second half of their program is devoted to rollicking folk songs and mountain calls. They will wear their native costumes.—Robert LeMense
Library Displays Two
New Movie Volumes
Two volumes of research material for the film, “Knute Rockne — All American.” have been on display for the past ten days in the library of the University of Notre Dame. They are a gift from Warner Brothers, and contain pictures and other photographic material from Norway and United States which fig--ured in the making of the production. The volumes are bound in red morroco, indexed, and are stamped in gold. Included in the gift is a copy of the original scenario of the movie.
—Bill Welch
Prize Competition
The Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on scholarships and prizes announces an essay competition, open to members of the class of 1941. The prizes will be §25 for each of the two best papers written, during this academic year, on some phase of labor relations. These prizes, donated by Bernard J. Donoghue, of the class of 1931, will be awarded at the commencement of 1941.
Further information on this competition can be obtained from Professor Louis F. Buckley, of the department of economics.
TUX or TAILS
By SOCIETY BRAND $45 and up
. . . and you are ready for many big evenings to come . . . complete accessories to satisfy the most exacting.
Our representatives on the campus will be glad to hear of your dress clothes problem and they can help you. See Bob Saggau, or George Rassas, both in Alumni Hall.
THE MODERN
813 S. Michigan St. GILBERT'S
South Bend, Indiana
Infirmary Tests
All those who have not yet received their tests and inoculations are requested to report to the infirmary as soon as possible so that this work may be completed. Dr. James McMeel, university physician also suggests that those freshmen or transfer students who did not receive medical slips prior to registration obtain one from either the registrar or the infirmary. He added that the health situation on the campus is good.
—Jim Clark
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Ready for a
Big Evening
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOOK REVIEW
Country Lawyer, by Bellamy Partridge. (McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.; 1939; 316 pp.; $2.50.)
Many of our publishers are being cursed with manuscripts crowded with nostalgic reminiscences of America’s golden age. If you have ever read out of a McGuffey First or have milked a cow you are entitled to enter into the charmed circle of those who are selling their childhood in print. Schoolmaster of Yesterday, Country Editor, and Father was an Editor are the currently popular examples of this type of literature.
It all began, innocently enough, with Bellamy Partridge’s story of his father. Country Lawyer is the story of a small town, upstate New York lawyer in the golden age of the American small town, the years between Appomattox and Sara jevo. Those were the years when horses commanded the muddy streets of the small town and most folks took a bath on Saturday night. -
Country Lawyer consists of a large number of humorous anecdotes about father’s struggles with the law, the volunteer fire fighters, the recently invented typewriter, and with the city fathers in his attempt to introduce a water supply system into the town. Probably the best and the funniest of these anecdotes are those about father in the law courts of the country town and county. They are rich examples of a type of humor that cannot be found in any country but America.
I think the funniest story in Country Lawyer is the story of the old Scrooge who tried to sue the Presbyterian minister because of a prayer meeting. It seems that the crops in this section of the state were dying from drought. The Presbyterian minister arranged for prayer meeting that all the people of the town might join in a collective supplication for rain. The effects of the prayer
LEARN TO DANCE ★ IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
Class or Private Instruction CALL 3-4079
We teach thorough foundation and the very latest steps in ballroom dancing.
Maxene Mollenhour School of Dancing
320 W. Jefferson	South Bend, Indiana
were instantaneous and a huge storm, complete with rain, thunder, and lightning arose. Unfortunately a bolt of lightning ignited the largest hay bam of the miserly farmer. The farmer immediately introduced a suit for $5,000 against the Presbyterian minister to cover the cost of rebuilding his barn. At the trial the old miser proved that the minister had organized the meeting and had accepted congratulations upon the efficacy of his prayers. However, the judge of the supreme court decided that there was no suit as the minister had only prayed for rain while the lightning was an entirely gratuitous gift from God.
Country Lazvyer is composed of many similar humorous stories of the law. If you don’t like the present world, if you have an interest in things American, and if you appreciate earthy American humor Country Lawyer is your book.
—John Considine
The NewSkipper LOAFER COAT by
WILSON BROTHERS
Political Rally
Red flares and posters bearing the picture of Wendell Willkie greeted students as they left the dining halls on Monday evening, the night before the presidential election.
Amid a cloud of fierce political sentiments, a crowd composed of both Willkie and Roosevelt supporters followed the leader of the demonstration to the steps of the library. Willkie’s friends remained to cheer him, while the Roosevelt fans remained to boo.
Ray Kelly, Fred Lentz and Leo Hillenbrand spoke, greeted by cheers from their own side and boos from the opponents. The speakers urged every eligible student to vote on the next day . . . “and for Willkie.”
Only when the flares were exhausted and political spirit a little subsided did the crowds disperse. It was later learned that the rally had been under the management of Mike Grace.
A pre-election campus poll of student voters revealed that 170 were for Willkie and 112 for Roosevelt.
—Edward Drinkard
Just as comfortable as the name LOAFER implies . . . very smart in green, rust and brown.
Other jackets $2.95 and $3.95
JASON Brush Wool Sweaters in a variety of colors__....$2.00
Our new men's shop is anxious to please you—come in and see our neckwear, shirts, sweaters, jackets, belts and jewelry ... a distinctive collection from which to make your selection.
AT OUR NEW MEN’S SHOP
GEO. WYMAN
AND COMPANY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Notre Dame Represented
At Two Art Conferences
The Art Department of the University was represented recently at two different art conferences. The Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., who this year is teaching sculpture and figure drawing in the Art Department, was delegated to attend the Catholic Art Association meeting,held at Siena Heights, Adrian, Mich. The problems confronting art education in the Catholic schools were discussed thoroughly by the 130 members.
At Madison, Wis., Professor Stanley S. Sessler, director of the Department of Fine Art, attended the meeting of the Mid-West College Art Conference, where a very complete and interesting program was directed by Professor William Var-num, chairman of art education at Wisconsin.
Next year’s meeting will be held in Chicago, III., where Mr. Norman Rice, dean of the Art School of the Chicago Art Institute, will preside. Mr. Sessler was elected vice-president for 1940-41 at this year’s meeting, and will assume duties of president for the following year of 1941-42. Mr. William Paxson of Rockford College, Ill., was elected secretary-treasurer.
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
^Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
Students Injured
Five sophomores from Brownson Hall, Vince Commisa, Gilbert Giillooly, Jerry Sweeney, Mike Mahon, and Dick Collins suffered minor injuries in an automobile accident in Pennsylvania on Nov. 1. Collins sustained a broken collarbone while the others escaped with bruises and cuts. Their car overturned several times following the side - swiping of another.
Get a Freshman start in a Graduate Shirt
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
University fashions come and go, but The Duke of Manhattan goes on forever, wherever and whenever well-dressed men foregather. Its brilliant white broadcloth has lent lustre to thousands of erudite wardrobes, from freshman to faculty, from Yale to Stanford, from September to June. With your favorite Manhattan collar that becomes you most, and a price that’s graduate economics... $2, everywhere.
SIZE-FIXT Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less MAN-FORMED shaped to masculine contours COLLAR-PERFECT styled to stay set just-so
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
God Bless
What?
Should I be proud that I am an American? America, the richest country in the world, the land of opportunity, but famous for its high crime rate, its waste of natural resources, its multiple divorces, and its tainted politics. The President openly labels us physical softies. Our country was rooted and grew hard on a foundation of strong religious belief. Now its plumpness is personified by shallow, brightly-painted faces which bob aimlessly about a polished floor while a martial air, which begs God’s blessing, is pounded out in jitterbug tempo.
In a century and a half of a standard of living superior to anything in Europe we have failed to produce scientists and statesmen whose combined strength could prove ridiculous any myths of racial superiority. Nor have we seen an American economist capable of adjusting our own economic troubles, to say nothing of one brave enough to tackle the world conditions which are reducing civilization to a shambles before our very eyes.
Let’s take a leisurely look at ourselves before we join the chorus. We all criticize political theories after we have made the extensive research which a single newspaper item affords. We are neglecting educational opportunities at a time when there is a crying need for common sense. A country with fewer material gifts has struck into us a fear which is liable to become hysteria overnight. Nevertheless, we are sitting comfortably; wallowing in radios and newspapers w’hich are pumping us full of “Americanism” and “Our way of life,” neither of which we can define. Our tolerance covers own own faults. We drive rapidly through the slums to blur the far-from-pretty picture, though wTe may decrease the population problem slightly. Too often cigars buy our votes, providing, of course, we get transportation to the polls and a list of the nominations of grandfather’s and father’s party.
Oh, yes, I’m glad I live in America, but I’m not satisfied with it. Let every American be Christian; let him accept intelligently his responsibility of citizenship; let our national anthem be a. melody of peace; let America be a vibrant, living testimonial to those everlasting principles which now rest only lip deep; let this new culture diffuse in brilliant, undeniable rays, strong enough to penetrate the soul of every human being in
a magnificent, bloodless conquest of ignorance by light.
Then we may turn to preparing our children for their task of attaining even greater heights, confident that they can determine wThat we are without the assistance of identifying signs or asinine slogans.—Jerry Smith
Select your
MEDICO PIPES
from the largest pipe stock in South Bend.
LET MEDICO BE YOUR NEXT PIPE
Smoking it will amaze you
Witt its 66 Baffle fitter, FRANK MEDICO accomplishes what no other pipe has ever achieved. Ask any man who stokes one.
| GENUINE FILTENS FM HEMCO PIPES MCNEPMLYMTNS NEN * SUCN Ml
Math Club Elects
At the second meeting of the Mathematics Club here last Monday, James Crawford Abbott was elected chairman, and Paul Jacoby and Erik Hemmingsen were elected to the executive board.
The next meeting of the club will be on Monday, Nov. 25.
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING The Natural N. D. Hang-Out

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
700 New Missals Placed in Sacred Heart Church
Through the combined efforts of the Kev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and the Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C., prefect of religion, the University has purchased 700 new missals to replace the 500 missals bought two years ago.
The purpose of the new missals is to create more interest in the Mass and a a better knowledge of the actions of the celebrant.
Of the vest pocket size they are easy to handle and take up very little space. The new Sunday Missals were written by the Rev. J. F. Steadman.
The missals formerly in use will be presented to the army. This is being done as a favor to the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., now Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese and past president of the University.
There will be instruction Thursday evening at 6:30 in Dillon, Howard, and Cavanaugh Halls in the use of the missals. The classes will be taught by priests and brothers. All students who wish to learn how to use a missal are invited to attend.—Elmer D. Silha
Necks will wear.,.
ftshe handsomest collars you can wear are the collars on your Arrow Shirts —and the most remarkable Arrow collar is Arrow Dart. It stays neat and crisp all day without starch — and wears miraculously. Arrow Dart is $2.25.
Jlleftwilp
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
Arrow Shirts . . . the new National Favorite
College men, surveys show, prefer Arrow Shirts. They like Arrow’s fresh, new styles. Arrow’s incomparable collars. Arrow’s perfect, lasting fit. So will you.
It's Adler's for Arrows!
When it comes to a popular vote
it’s always ARROW
putabigX here
———--------- " “ —
ARROW GORDON . . . claims (and is) the sturdiest and smartest oxford cloth shirt that money will buy, especially recommended for campus politicians.$2
ARROW TRUMP . .. boasts (and will prove it) that its famed soft collar will outlast and outsmart any broadcloth shirt at $2
AND
HERE
Both are Mitoga cut, Sanforized-Shrunk, (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Buy these handsome whites today and get in on the Arrow landslide.
ARROW SHIRTS
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY

Two Students Return
From California Meet
“I was greatly edified by that Catholic । group, especially in their common prayers, when 110,000 voices were heard in unison,” commented Jerome O’Dowd, who along with John Reddy, attended the National Convention of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, which was held in Los Angeles, Calif., from October 12-16.
The highlight of the convention was the solemn pontifical Mass in the Memorial Coliseum, celebrated at high noon on Sunday, Oct. 13, by the Apostolic Delegate, His Excellency, Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Papal Delegate. This Mass was celebrated on the green turf of the stadium; the altai* was on the field in the form of a cross, made up of the assemblage of the hierarchy. The Mass was a brilliant religious pageant, which at least 50 bishops and 100 monsignors attended.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed the conference of the representatives of secular* colleges in the Cocoanut Grove in the Ambassador Hotel. Father O’Donnell’s subject was “Youth and Modern Problems.” Also, Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University spoke on “The Need of Our Times.”
John Reddy, who comes from Brooklyn, N. Y., is a graduate student in social work; the title of his talk was “The St. Vincent de Paul Society and the Confraternity.” Jerome O’Dowd, a second-year Law student, whose home is in Fort Wayne, Ind., spoke on “The Catholic College Group and the Distribution of Catholic Literature.”
An unusual feature of the convention were the celebrations of the Greek orthodox Mass, which took place in the Cathedral—James P. O'Laughlin

Delicious and
Ref reshi n o
“Delicious and refreshing,”—ice-cold Coca-Cola never loses the freshness of appeal that first charmed you. Its clean taste is exhilarating and a refreshed feeling follows. Thirst asks nothing more.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
Discuss Personal Training
T. A. Miller, director of training of the Ball-Band Corporation of Mishawaka, will discuss at 4:15 p.m. Friday, Nov. 8, the qualities and personal training that industry is looking for in its future employes. He will also dicuss what information a graduate should have about a company before he accepts a position with the company. This is for the satisfaction of both company and employe.
The lecture will be held in the Engineering Building auditorium as the regular senior engineering lecture.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
Mass Calendar, Nov. 10-16
Sunday, 10—Twenty-sixth after Pentecost. (Fifth after Epiphany) 2d prayer, St. Andrew of Avellino, Confessor. 3d Sts. Trypho and Companions, Martyrs, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 11—St. Martin, Bishop, Confessor. 2d prayer, St. Mennas, Martyr. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 12—St. Martin 1, Pope, Martyr. 2d prayer, the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, Id—St. Didacus, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d, the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 14—St. Josaphat, Martyr. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 15—Saint Albert the Great, Bishop Confessor, Doctor. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Saturday, 16—Saint Gertrude, Virgin.
Mi-
THE ARISTOCRAT OF
because . . . IT'S SURE TO RAIN!
ALL-WEATHER COATS $2650
Here’s the coat you’ve been looking for —loose, easy drape—soft, rich shades —fine worsted gabardine fabric exclusive with Alligator! It’s smart, comfortable, practical—made water repellent the one and only Alligator way. See it. Try it on. You’ll agree, there’s never been a rain or shine coat like it.
Other Alligator Ramcoats $5.75 to $26£0
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
THE ALLIGATOR CO., St Louis, Los Angeles, New York
ALLIGATOR
Mass: Dilexisti (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
_____And the Green Grass
Grew All 'Round....
To the North, South, East and West stretch 40 acres of the campus green. Forty acres that need constant care; and for this the University has “Mike” Moser. He is the leader of a crew of 16 swath-cutters whose business it is to maintain the beautiful campus grounds of Notre Dame.
From early May to late October, Mike’s posse is on the watch for scanty and arid patches of grass, ragged bushes and other impairments to the lawn and foliage of the grounds. Their work is never done; morning and night in the hot and dry weather the grass is sprinkled; at least once a week each section of lawn must be cut; and now the Fall has caused a flood of leaves which must be raked up.
For lawn-cutting purposes there are two gasoline-powered mowers and six smaller hand mowers. Of the power mowers the larger is equipped with a 36-inch center blade and two 24-in. side
• blades, and cuts about eight acres a day. The other power mower cuts about half this amount.
The smaller mowers and a host of rakes, spades, pitchforks and hoes, in the hands of Mike’s efficient crew, take care of the many small jobs connected with lawn maintenance. And, as a safeguard, a well stocked five-acre nursery supplies bushes and small trees where needed.—John Lynch
"IMAGINE"
"Imagine Me forgetting this easy schedule!"
A TRAIN
EVERY HOUR
South Shore trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, leaving at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, leaving at 11:00 P. M. and-12:00 Midnight. Nineteen in all. You can’t miss.
Ticket office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
ONE WAY FROM SOUTH BEND
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE CAMPUS
(Continued from page 13) lie Library. “It was not,” he said, “nearly so crowded.”
* * *
The University gardeners have stopped raking leaves. They are now directing their attention to the soil. Every day •they cut and remove sections of the grass plots and put them back again immediately, without alterations. It’s all very mysterious, we admit, but the ac
“The MEN’S Corner”
NEW STORE
FORMALS
AND ACCESSORIES FOR THE
COTILLION
And Other Events To Come
TAILS $25
Others at $35
TUXEDOS $22.50
Others up to $50
Shirts - -	$2.50
Dress Ties -	1.00
Opera Hats -	8.50
Dress Jewelry - 1.00 Freeman Shoes - 5.50
JACK BURKE
President Students' Activity Council Walsh Hall
Campus Representative
For -
s Katz
* % AO/? MEN AND JI ^.YQUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
tions probably are symbols, for bigger and better things.
* * *
These are certainly days which prompt cynicism and doubt; but there is a sign in the window of an eating place in South Bend that should dispel any doubt concerning the status of our womanhood. The sign says very simply: Delicious Meals Prepared By A Real Lady Cook.
Commerce Forum Begins
New Seasonal Program
With the winter season slowly approaching, and with fall activities already rolling along, the Commerce Forum is beginning preparations for their new sports program. The program will get underway next week and will extend throughout the year under the able supervision of Jim Gartland.
Bowling will be first on the program. A qualifying round will first be played in the Walsh hall recreation rooms, and will be followed by a handicap tournament. Prizes will be awarded at the close of the tournament to the winners in each class. All members may sign for the tournament in the Walsh hall recreation rooms, or with Jim Gartland, 203 Alumni hall, beginning Monday, Nov. 11.
On Oct. 24, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver hotel, an excellent observer of business conditions and affairs, Merle Thorpe, editor of Nation's Business, addresses an audience composed of members of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and the Commerce Forum. Mr. Thorpe gave a detailed factual picture of the Washington governmental situation from a businessman’s viewpoint. Expressing his distaste for conditions existing in the capital at present, Mr. Thorpe gave his impression of the two types of party policies and their contributions to the business world. This lecture was second in a series, which is being held in South Bend, and to which all members of the Commerce school are invited.
The study , club groups will commence next week, under the supervision of Messrs. Raymond Kent, James Dincolo, Wesley Bender, Francis Calkins, and LeClair H. Eells of the College of Commerce.
All members of the Forum are urged to participate in these round-table projects which will discuss current topics of interest in business administration, finance, and accounting, and which will attempt to give to the members a more exact and clearer impression of commerce in all its branches. Membership is open to all members and registration may be done with Bill Foley, of Alumni Hall.—John F. Moriarty
Flynn Elected Vice-Pres.
of Parole Association
Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work, was recently elected vice president of the American Parole Association at a meeting of the American Prison Association in Cincinnati. Other officers are Edwin Gill, commissioner. of parole in North Carolina, and Sanford Bates, of the New York State parole board.
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
The first conclusion I drew from the presentation of'“The Little Foxes” last Monday evening in South Bend, was that playwright Lillian Hellman’s strength lies in her well-defined characters. There can be no doubt that Miss Hellman knew the people of her play intimately. She must have had them in mind long before “The Little Foxes” was written. She must have allowed them to work out her plot for her, for it is compact, believable, and an organic growth.
The Hubbard family, lusting for money-power, is the direct opposite of the fine Southern aristocracy. Ben and Oscar, instead of taking cotton to the machine, bring the machine to the cotton, and unscrupulously run their factory in a little town in the South. Regina Giddens, their sister, is a cold, merciless woman. United by a love of wealth, the three are sharply delineated. Oscar is impetuous and extreme, leaning on Ben for support in his decisions. Ben is calculating, level-headed, decisive in his judgments. His purpose is wholly corrupt, but he is so clever, and even so brilliant in defeat that we can’t help admiring him. And Regina is more clever than Ben. The internal clash of the Hubbard family then is what gives the play its meat: the house divided does not stand.
Woven into this primary action is Oscar’s insipid son, Leo; his compassionate wife, Birdie; Regina’s resolute husband, Horace, who is dying of heart trouble, and whose money is the target of the unscrupulous Hubbards; her daughter, Alexandra, a Giddens rather than a Hubbard, in spirit; and two faithful Negro servants not at all in sympathy with Hubbard tactics. Playwright Lillian Hellman intermingles these cleanly drawn characters and “The Little Foxes” results.
Actors were faithful to the script.
ORCHIDS $2.00 and up All you want in a CORSAGE $1.00 Special Orders
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE: George Rudolph, 301 Dillon
Minegor Flower Shop
124 W. Colfax Ave.
Tallulah Bankhead played Regina with fine restraint, giving the audience her emotion bit by bit, blending technique and emotion remarkably. Frank Conroy as Horace Giddens, Charles Dingle as Ben Hubbard, Carl Benton Reid as Oscar Hubbard were excellent. The only exception was Marie Carroll as Birdie, the pitiable wife of Oscar. She painted Birdie with theatrical tricks, both of voice and mannerisms, and was the only person in the cast who made one remember “The Little Foxes” was on the stage.
639 Students Return From New York Trip
Six hundred and thirty-nine weary, tired, and dejected students returned to the campus last Monday morning after a most enjoyable weekend in New York City, climaxed by the Irish victory over the stubbornly resisting Army team.
A special train of 17 cars, including two pullmans for the faculty, three diners, and one baggage car, furnished the means of transportation for the trip.
Notre Dame headquarters were at the McAlpin Hotel, the lobby of which was continually filled with alumni and friends who heard selections by Joseph Ca-sasanta and his band before and after the game. The band also furnished the music for the broadcast of the annual
Hour HAT
vith a a®*
I-TIJW *® ““?**’* LEE Water*W
The UNIVERSITY
S5.00
Not only a new color but a new band and a new edge. Khaki is the color—with a felt bind-ingofcontrasting color.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat... |3J>0.

LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Reunion-Rally held this year at the Hotel Commodore.
The return train left Pennsylvania station on Sunday afternoon and arrived in South Bend early Monday morning.—C. S. Coco
Breen Oratorical Contest
The department of speech announces the preliminaries of the Breen Oratorical contest for Dec. 8, 9, 10 and the finals for Dec. 16.
Any undergraduate wishing to participate must submit his name to one of the members of the speech department before Nov. 20.
For further information consult Father O’Neil, director.
CORBY STATUE
(Continued from page 13) man who had served as president of the University before the Civil War, the Rev. James Dillon, C.S.C., after whom another campus residence hall has been named.
Artist Paul Wood has a canvas depicting Father Corby giving absolution to the blue-clad soldiers kneeling on the ground before him; it hangs in the fourth floor collection of historical relics in the Main Building. The campus statue of Father Corby is a replica of one, erected in 1911, which stands today at the entrance to the cemetery of the Gettysburg battlefield.—John Casey
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"Florian" Is Movie For Saturday Night
Tomorrow night Robert Young comes to Washington Hall in the guise of a horse-trainer as he stars in his most recent film success “Florian.” A Walt Disney color cartoon and an RKO newsreel will also be shown.
Over the Army trip weekend the following films were shown at Washington Hall. On Thursday, Oct. 31, Jackie
Add Zest to Your Daily Life Chew Delicious doublemint GUM
w vourself this easy way to get a doublemint gum	ohew Well,
You know how much tun . springy there's extra fun	of.delicious,
DOUBLEMINT GUM and enjoying lots o
DOUBLEMINT GUM every day.
B®jse»eral package otDOUBlHIINT GUN totay
I;
S3
I
Cooper starred in “What a Life.” Last Saturday night the film “Edison the Man” was accompanied by a one reel MGM cartoon and an RKO newsreel.
—Mark G. McGrath
Economic Round Table
A regular meeting of the Economic Round Table was held last week at the Rose Marie Tea Room. Jack Hennessey furnished the food for thought with his
c


interesting paper on the South as the “Nation’s Economic Problem Number One.” Four new members, Larry Walsh, Cliff Buckley, Coe McKenna and Bill Fallon were officially welcomed into the club. Aftei- the regular meeting Mr. Downey presented a short history of the Round Table since its organization. Tentative plans for the future were also discussed.
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
Close Harmony Takes Over. . .
Bing Crosby and the Merry Macs (together for the first time), Bob Crosby and the Bob-o-links, and Tommy Dorsey’s Pied Pipers have turned out three of the best records we have heard for a long, long time. Bing’s mellow voice blends perfectly with the famous Macs in two old numbers polished up by new interpretation: “You Made Me Love You” and “Do You Ever Think of Me.” Smart, bright chording, rhythmic solo work, unusual effects feature both sides.
“You Forgot About Me” is the song rendered by the other Crosby. It’s a beautiful melody sung in medium tempo that will put you in a blue, blue world. (Both Crosby records by Decca)
Clever lyrics by a smooth outfit make “You’ve Got Me This Way” by the Pied Pipers one of Dorsey’s most unusual disks. And Tommy doesn’t let them do all the work either. The instrumentation is right in there (Victor)
Album note. . .
In these days of intricate orchestrations it’s a relief to turn to piano solos once in a while. Count Basie’s piano solos make one of the best albums Decca has ever presented. Basie’s quiet, dry, incisive style, backed up by the faithful work of Fred Green on the guitar, Walter Page on bass, and Joe Jones on drums, is shown to great advantage and variety in these five records, including favorites like “Oh! Red,” “Boogie Woogie,” “The Dirty Dozens,” and “When the Sun Goes Down.” A must album for any collector.
Posies Here and There. . .
To Duke Ellington for his latest swing classic, “Rumpus in Richmond,” and “In a Mellotone.” (Victor) To Will Hudson for a solid, a la “Tuxedo Junction” interpretation of “Peekin’ at the Deacon.” (Decca) To Bob Crosby’s Bob Cats for “Don’t Call Me Boy.” (Decca) To Johnny Dodds and his Washboard Band for “Bucktown Stomp” and “Blue Washboard Stomp” (barrelhouse on the esoteric side by Bluebird)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
Creed.” The title is suitable, I suppose, if our creed consists in prairies and cowboys and cactus-plant. These things are in “American Creed,” in so far as it is possible to get them into any music.
neto Columbia
masterworks
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
WAGNER — Tannhauser Overture — Sir Thomas Beecham conducting the London Philharmonic Orchestra — $2.50.
BEETHOVEN — Ninth Symphony — “Choral” — Weingartner and Vienna Philharmonic and Vienna chorus — $8.50.
BRAHMS—No. 2 in D. Major—New York Philharmonic with John Barbirrolli conducting — $5.50.
EDDIE DUCHIN ALBUM—including such never-to-be-forgotten favorites as
Nocturne in E flat Time On My Hands
Lovely to Look At Easter Parade
Why Do I Love You?
The Way You Look Tonight
I Guess I’ll Have to Change My Plan April in Paris
latest Columbia
POPULAR RECORDS
50c Columbia Records
EDDY HOWARD with Teddy Wilson’s orchestra: Stardust and Old Fashioned Love.
EDDY DUCHIN: Two Dreams Meet and Down Argentina Way.
RAY NOBLE recording that beautiful number — A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square.
Okeh-Vocalion, 35c
GENE KRUPA and his orchestra: I’d Know You Anywhere and Like the Fella Once Said.
JACK LEONARD’S new release:
(you remember him as vocalist supreme with Tommy Dorsey’s orchestra.)
I Never Mention Your Name Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana
9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas
Well-Informed Clerks
RODinS
/fl //Of/T/r M/C///&AM .
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra, which has rarely in its history wandered far off the path of a standard symphonic repertoire, is determined this season to fill the ears of its listeners with something other than Bach and Beethoven. Ten living composers have been commissioned to write works for performance by the orchestra. Among them is Roy Harris, who, during the last few years has continued to increase the hopes of the nationalists.
Harris is an American of the Southwest. He was born in Oklahoma in 1898, and moved with his family to California when five years old. His mother gave him his first piano lessons, but then high school days came along and Roy dropped his music — which -would seem another substantial proof of his American blood. At 18 he became a farmer and learned to play the clarinet for his own amusement. Harris went into the World War as a private, and when it was over, he spent a year driving a truck and studying music at night. It was in 1921 that he entered the University of California as a special student, taking courses in philosophy and economics.
In 1926, after doing some composing and teaching in California, Harris went to Paris and studied with Nadia. Boulanger. He returned to the United States and turned to writing symphonies, string quartets — all of which breathed a strong spirit of things American, said the critics.
I suppose most people associate what is strong and free and quite individual with the American spirit. Harris’ music is certainly free; it does not sound as if it were disciplined by any rules. And yet his music has been characterized as having much strict form, although most of his classicism is obscured by his modernism. His music is also strong and individual. Its strength lies, perhaps, in the orchestration. Harris orchestrates in a bold manner, characteristic of most moderns, and shows a great love of brasses. He long ago passed the stage where he had any fears about letting one-half the brass section blow its lungs out on a B flat, while the other blew equally as hard on a B natural. A composer has only to do this sort of thing enough times and we are quite ready to admit his strength and individuality.
Harris’ latest vrork, written for the Chicago Symphony, is called “American
SNAPPY SPORT JACKETS REDUCED UP TO 50%
RECO Sporting Goods 113 N. Main Phone 4-6731 “Look for the Log Front”
"The Catholic Church I [ in Indiana: 1789-1834" |
|	by	I
| Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.G =
I Head of Department of History =
= University of Notre Dame 1
)	$125	|
= Addressed particularly to those | 5 interested in frontier conditions, | B this fine book is based on unused | | manuscript sources and describes | i correctly and clearly -the transi- | | tion from the French Missions in | | Indiana to the later American = | Church.	|
I Notre Dome Bookstore I
|	Badin Hall .	|
tb....................    i
All-American Star SID LUCKMAN presents a helmet full of Chesterfields to theAII-American College Girl MARY LOU BULLARD.
TASTE
YOUR GOAL FOR MORE SMOKING
PLEASURE
pack of Chesterfields for smokers like your-selt The first is a COOLER smoke . . . the second score for Chesterfield is BETTER TASTE . . . and the third and winning score for any smoker is Chesterfield’s REAL MILDNESS.
The reason Chesterfields satisfy is in their right combination of the finest tobaccos grown... the Perfect blend that you ’ll find in no other cigarette. They really Satisfy.
MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK CHESTERFIELD
Copyright 1940, Liccett & Myers Tobacco Co.