
328	Howe dome ^chokisdc
THEY CAME SATURDAY—THEY CAME EARLY
1 Just as we asked them to do. Compared our styles and prices. I
SPIRITED BUYING CONTINUES UNABATED
as people come from far and near to buy the	.
FINEST OVERCOATS KNOWN TO
MODERN RETAILDOM
GEORGE A. PLATT.
GENTLEMEN—It is a privilege as well as a pleasure to appeal . to your good judgment through the medium of this magazine. .
You men who are looking for the best fitting, best tailored, best fabrics, at prices below what others are asking for odds and ends.
Selling of One and Two Pants Suits Enormous!
The showing of the New Tweeds, Herringbones, Checks, Plaids in single and double breasted both sport and plain, are wonderful.
SNAPPIEST HATS AND CAPS—OUR CLAIM
An opportunity to show you is sufficient to convince you of a saving.
COME SATURDAY—COME EARLY
ixrfn. GEORGE A. PLATT, Clothier STRICTLY
HighRent District “999” Comer Michi^and Wayne Streets, South Bend. POLICY
Nocre dome ^chokwck?
329
We Want , Your Business
THE OLIVER
Indiana’s Finest Hotel
—We Sell High Grade Shoes of the Finest Make.
—Shoes of the Latest Fad and Fashion.
—We Cater to the Better Class.
—And We Have What They Want.
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS
KLINGEL’S
SHOES FOR YOUNG MEN OLIVER THEATRE BUILDING

No. 126
The First. National Bank
South Bend, Indiana , (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, Jr., Vice-Pres.
C. L. ZIGLER. Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for rent AT REASONABLE PRICES.
Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit .
Payable Throughout the World.
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
SPFLDl	.	UMA
ILL.	OHIO
^HTSPEGI^
212 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg.
OFFICE PHONE Main 689
RES. PHONE Main 1162 and 1M7
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
. Dentistry.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting, and Surgery of
. .	. the Mouth and Jaws.
J. M<s. building
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
DE^TliST and
. ORTHODONTIST
617 J. M. S. Building,	South Bend, Ind.
330
Noure dame Schokrsric
• - - - — - ■■ - - — .............♦
TTr._ A Q,,,.- you will be pleased with our photoW “ AI“ wUlC graphs. Special rates to students.
E. E. MANGOLD
THE LEADING PHOTOGRAPHER
226 NORTH MAIN STREET NEAR CITY HALL .fr—.
THE WORLD’S LONGEST ELECTRIFIED RAILROAD-649 Miles of Transcontinental Line now Operated by “White CoaL”
If you want to enjoy every minute of your trip take THE CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Pbanea: Bell. 602; Heme. 9*3
- - ■ ■ - ■ - ■ - - - ■ ■■ - - ■ -> ———————+
NOTRE DAME MEN
DO YOU KNOW THAT
The Campus Shoe Repairing Shop
'' Is one the Most Up-to-Date in the State? ' ’
Let us prove to you, our Quality, Service, Workmanship. Town Prices.
Notre Dame Shoe Repairing Shop and
Shining Parlor candys°tore
».... ..... " “ - ■ - — " ■— " -
Ideal Laundry Company
"Get the Ideal Habit”
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
Notre Dame News Stand
,	LEAVE YOUR
AMATEUR FILMS AT THE NEWS STAND
' ’ With Mr. James Keegan to be developed and finished.
THE NATIONAL PHOTO SHOPS CORPORATION 105 Lincoln Way East.
- - — - - ...... -■■■■■■■
CALENDAR
February 5, Sunday—Sir Robert Peel born, 1788.
“The Catholic Family,” sermon by Rev. Kerndt Healey, 8:15 o’clock Mass.
February 6, Monday—Henry Irving born, 1838.
February 7, Tuesday—Jeff Davis’ case dismissed, 1869.	X
V. F. W. Dance, Oliver Hotel.
February 8, Wednesday—Confederate Government formed, 1861.
February 9, Thursday—Confederate Congress met, 1861.
Students’ Activities Committee meets.
Villagers, at Y, 7:15, in meeting.
February 10, Friday—Battle of Hornet and Resolute, 1813.	.
February 11, Saturday—Lincoln left for Washington, 1861.	'
“The Ride of King Log,” moving picture in Washington Hall.	>
THE MAN WHO SELLS SAUSAGE.
The man who-sell sausage at the corner .
Makes you feel like little Jack Horner:
For on February first, When he sells you his wurst He says: “That cow! Dehorner then cornher.”
I?
JJQarp’S College ani) Slcatiemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, NOTRE D^ME, INDIANA
College
Gymnaeium
Academy
Church
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy High School)—Commissioned;
Credits accepted by the leading Universities
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.	.
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped.commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. .The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take ' pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President.
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA

II
'Sfie Nocre dome Schdasric	331
332
/£fie Noure dame Sdxjkwcic
SPALDING
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE SCHOLASTIC TO-DAY
Basket Bau.
When purchasing equipment for basket ball or any athletic sport,insstuponCPALDING’S. Satisfaction is inevitable.
Catalogue on request

A.G.SPALDING&BROS.
21 S. State Street CHICAGO, ILL.
THE PRICE IS STILL
$2.00
BUT IT WILL SOON BE
$3.00
Dentistry Extracting
Oral Surgery and Dental X-RAY
Dr. John A. Stoeckley
PHONES:
SU J. M, S Building Jjg~-_.SUJ.ag-
The Reliance Pharmacy, Inc.
Cox Sons & Vining
72 Madison Ave., New York ■
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest* Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for J udiciary, Pulpit and Choir
EYES EXAMINED
Glaeeee Htteil at Moderate Price.
DR. J. BURKE
optometrist
•	230 W. Washington Avenue
- - - ... ---------- ■ --------- - - - —4
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $1.25 THE AVE MARIA	- NOTRE DAME. IND.
r/  z 	 .
230 S. Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
$
'Sfie Noure dome ^chokwric
333
AFTERWEVERy ■ MEAL
WRIGLfYS
gum
with Peppermint
Peppermint voted chewing
Newest Creation
Yellow Taxi Cab
/ ' . .
and Transfer Co.
Main Office, 315-325 E. Jefferson Bldv.
MAIN 5200
One or Two Passengers______t___$1.00
Each Additional Passenger...____ .50
Trunks, each. ^________________ 1.00
Suit Cases, Bicycles, etc., each..!—	.25
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket “melts in your mouth,’’ leaving the deliaously flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.
Great
5<t
Treat!
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
RATES REASONABLE.
NOTRE DAME MEN ONLY
TEN PER CENT OFF
On presentation of Athletic Card at the
Quality Shoe Repair Co.
130 North Michigan Street “In Middle of the Block.”
“SOLE SAVERS”
' Consult J. A. Mogle, Foot Expert, on ~ ......ybur Foot Troubles."
Si’
334
*5fie Nocre dame Sdidagric
A SALE THAT’S
WHALE WHY?
BECAUSE YOU CAN BUY
ANY SUIT
50, 60,65 VALUES
$35
25 and 30 Suits and Overcoats no* $18.75
MAX ADLER CO.
THE CAMPUS STORE
DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTURUS- VIVE - QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Entered as Second Class Mail Matter Published Every Saturday During the School Year.
Vol. LV.	February 4, 1922	No., 17
THE COLLEGE MAN IN THE PARISH.
C. J. H.
THE sermon delivered last Sunday by Rev. William Murphy, of Chicago, on “The College Man in the .Parish,” has drawn much favorable comment
from students. Father Murphy explained
very clearly that conducting a parish in a city is a much greater problem than having a congregation that is constant, such a& ours at Notre Dame; and his reasons why it is
up to the college man to take an interest in the affairs of the parish he will later enter were indisputable and worthy of reflection.
By the time a man has spent four or more years at college, his home parish ties have been greatly weakened' and outside of hearing Mass he is apt to take no interest in the church he attends. The friendships he ac
quired at school stay with him and he is
loath to form new ones among a class of
people with whom he has np large common interest. He finds everything much differ
ent from the atmosphere of his college life, and is content to go his way . unmolested.
Consequently, when the pr.est calls for a meeting of the men in the parish, the college man considers that he could gain no advantage from attending, and leayes the work of assisting the priest to the other men in the
parish. This attitude may be augmented by a certain feeling of reserve held toward the
college man by those members of a community who would still believe that education stifles, rather than strengthens character; in establishing himself in such a society, the college man often has to prove that he is rational, though educated. But this feeling of resentment is not of sufficient force to hinder
the man who wants to use his education as a means to promoting congenial relationships with his fellow parishioners.
Opposed to this is the attitude of the college man as mentioned by Father Murphy. Very truthfully did he speak of the man who looks upon the congregation in his parish as a motley crowd of uninteresting individuals, and considers a concern with the material affairs of his church as unworthy the “dignity” of a college man. He wants to be a part of the big Catholic societies, for there he finds the brains of the Church and there he can take an interest in great activities. And while he is devoting his attention to these, his parish priest is trying to cope with problems foreign to his spirit.
We have, then, the college man who believes it is not his place to enter into the work of the parish, and the one who is inclined to belittle such work. Yet, when one considers accurately the benefit to be derived from taking a part in parish affairs, he cannot fail, to be not only willing but anxious to do his share. By taking an active interest in the work of strengthening his parish, a man forms many friendships with the people who will in all probability he his life neighbors. He earns their respect and they come to look upon him as a leader in the community. He can build for himself his own social group, reap the reward of good work, arid have the satisfaction of accomplishment.
It is quite reasonable for the priest to look to the college man for help in conducting the parish. The duty of the priest is to look after the spiritual welfare; the material means necessary for the proper discharge of this duty should be supplied by the men in the parish. This implies more than “contributing to the support of the pastor”; it entails the giving of personal service. If the priest could feel assured of the moral as well as the material support of the educated men in his parish, his mind would be freer and his spirit more eager.
§36
Noure 6ome ^chdascic
AMERICA AND NOTRE DAME.
A book of singular interest to Catholic Americans—“First Impressions in America,” by John Ayscough—is for some singular reason difficult to obtain in this country; and so we have been forced to delay the chronicle of a volume which deals with the University
JOHN AYSCOUGH.
in a manner very Englishy but also very amiable. The Right Rev. Mgr. Count Francis Bickerstaffe-Drew—this is the official name of the author beloved of many by reason of charming stories almost beyond number— came, saw and conquered the Catholic public of the United States, but succumbed 'in turn.to much that he found good and interesting in us. His book is, therefore, quite largely a benevolent chronicle of people who were kind to him and of places that he visited with interest, pleasure and profit.. John Ayscough’s eye did not lose its keeness while surveying the Atlantic, nor was it dimmed in America by anything except the courtesy which we are glad to' say was amply shown
him. Of course he visited almost every nook and cranny where there was a Catholic audience to welcome him, but of no spot has he written so much or so graciously as of Notre Dame. It is with a sense of sincere gratitude that we reproduce the following passages: before proceeding, however, we wish to state that the volume is published in England by John Long, for whom P. J. Kenedy of New York is the American representative.
“After a railway journey of about seven hours we reached South Bend, Indiana, at quarter to seven in the evening, where we were met by Very Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., President of the University of Notre Dame, whose happy guest we were to be for nearly three weeks. It was largely owing to the President’s invitation that we went to America at all, and indirectly to him that the success of the lecture-tour was owing: for he interested in us his friend, Mr. Earl Dickens, who, from the date of our arrival at Notre Dame, took upon himself the organization of all the rest of the tour, extending to over seven months, in the United States and Canada. This involved an infinity of labour, an enormous mass of correspondence, the obtaining and arrangement of lecture-engagements, drawing up of routes and time tables, and the obtaining of a vast mass of essential information concerning hotels, steamships, etc. I can never help feeling somewhat ashamed of the intolerable labour all this threw upon Mr. Dickens, by whom it was undertaken and carried out as a work of simple friendship: had he been a business agent I should have owed him a heavy debt of gratitude, but, though the business he did for me was arduous and very long-continued, it was no business matter at all, but an exercise of most energetic friendship.
“The University of Notre Dame is, I imagine, one of the oldest, if not quite the oldest, of the universities of America, apart from those of the quite eastern states. It -was founded over sixty years ago in the pioneer days of the Middle West. It does not yield in charm to any even of the most famous universities of New England and the East. It has a great number of very attractive buildings, grouped about a lovely Campus, which forms part of an estate of several thousand of acres, and much of this land is of great beauty, all of it unspoiled. Though this part of Indiana is somewhat flat, it is by no means a dead level, but has plenty of undulations, of rich agricultural land, wide pastures, and delightful copse. The St. Joseph River winds between wooded slopes and bluffs, a broad, deep stream undisfigured, and of a peculiar sylvan charm. No-w’here, in our drives over the university lands, did we see their smiling, glades and meadows outraged by abominable hoardings with screaming advertisements of boneless fish, hotels with ‘running water’ in every room, or tobacco best to smoke and best to chew. I wonder if these advertisers would care
TSfie Noure dame Scholastic’
337
to know that there really are travellers who would rather sleep under a haystack or a railway-arch than at an hotel that is so shamelessly willing to turn beautiful America hideous, and to go without cigarettes rather than smoke those thrust into notice by fifty yards of hideous painted boarding, so planted as to spoil the beauty of of lovely woods bordering lovely meadows.
“The beauty of the University demesne is much increased by its lakes, one of which is surrounded by woods, the other by softly undulating meadowlands studded with trees. All this landscape charm is largely due to the care and zeal of one of the Lay Brothers, whose memories go back to the early days of Notre Dame, a skilled landscape gardener, an enthusiast in botany, floriculture and aboricul-ture. With him I had some interesting talks, and would have liked to have more.
“Our days at Notre Dame were very pleasantly ■ spent: after Mass and breakfast, a much accumulated correspondence had to be dealt with; then perhaps a lecture had to be given; and I,was much relieved to find how kind a welcome the undergraduates gave me. This was my first experience of lecturing before the members of a University, and I had been nervous enough, dreading lest such an audience might be more critical than indulgent. Perhaps the President hypnotised them into approval. After dinner, there might come a little rest and reading, then a drive with the President to some place of interest or beauty in the neighbourhood: then supper, and very often another drive.
“Sometimes we dined with the Provincial at the Provincial House, and that we enjoyed very much. He was always as kindly and hospitable as he was amusing—with a pawky wit, and a lively force of repartee, particularly alert when an opening for the chaffing of Englishmen occurred. In this he was ably supported by two of his ‘Councillors,’ Rev. A. B. O’Neill and Rev. Charles O’Donnell, the latter a poet of distinction. Another of his Councillors, long known to me by correspondence, was the Rev. Daniel Hudson, for many years past the Editor of the Ave Maria. This magazine, published at Notre Dame, is known all over the Catholic world, and to its introduction of my works to American readers I owe a very large proportion of my ‘public’ in the United States and Canada. It was a great pleasure to meet personally one whose letters had made me regard him, for years, as a friend. At the Provincial’s table we met also, on different occasions, two bishops: Monsignor Alerding, the bishop of the diocese (Fort Wayne), a gentle, kindly-man, much respected and loved, and Monsignor Tac-coni, who has been for many years bishop of Ho-Nan in China. We were much impressed by this missionary prelate, finding him simpatico, clever and acute, and wholly absorbed in his distant, lonely work.
“One afternoon we were present at an Oratorical Contest in the theatre of Washington Hall; the prize was won by a youth named Joseph Tierney, and no doubt he was the best of the speakers, but
all the speeches struck us as being extremely good.
“Another afternoon was devoted to watching a baseball match between the. University of Notre Dame and the University of Purdue, Notre Dame scoring thirteen, and Purdue one. I enjoyed it so well that it was a matter of regret I had so few opportunities of witnessing base ball matches during our time in America.
“Another afternoon we spent in the University Museum; the building, i-ecently complete, is very fine, and it has a large library containing many rare and valuable works, especially a wonderful Dante collection, also a series of picture galleries enriched by many examples of tire work of famous masters; but its gallery of original portaits appealed to myself as much as anything it contained; and I was also specially interested in a collection of antique, and often historical, ecclesiastical vestments and ornaments.
“South Bend is a pretty city, lying along the banks of the St. Joseph River, with a large manufactory of motor-cars—the Studebaker; and a large Polish, in addition to its native American population. It has excellent shops, cafe and-hotels, of which the Oliver is the principal. I can think of no English town of the size and importance of South Bend with so good an hotel.
“I confess to disliking banquets, and the thought of having to speak at the end of one makes it much worse. We attended three at South Bend, the one I found most agreeable being in honour of the President of Notre Dame, at which I had no speech to make. After fifteen years of Presidentship Dr. Cavanaugh was about to retire, and this was a public farewell to him from his neighbours. Like some mariiages, the company was mixtae religionis, for the President’s admirers are by no means confined to those of his own church. Excellent speeches were delivered by the ‘Episcopal Bishop,’ the Presbyterian Minister, and the leading Jew of South Bend, each of whom spoke with genuine affection and respect for their guest of the evening. Indeed, there was no mistaking the really affectionate feeling towards him of all the company.
“One of our drives, and a specially beautiful one, during' our stay at Notre Dame, was to a place called Fort St. Joseph, near the little city of Niles. The site of the fort is marked by a boulder and platform, raised on a low ridge above the green-water-meadows through which the St. Joseph flows between thickly wooded banks. A very peaceful spot now, it was once an outpost, exposed to fierce and frequent attack by the Indians. Hard by lies buried one of the French missionary fathers who travelled all through their hostile region alone and on foot.	’’
“The concluding days of our stay at Notre Dame gave us the opportunity of seeing a University ‘Commencement.’ By the night of Friday, June Gth, alumni and their friends began to arrive, many from very distant parts of the Union, such as Texas; many had, in fact, very recently arrived from Europe, where they had been fighting in the Great
338
Noure dame Scholastic
War. On Saturday night there was held a 'Camp Fire,’ i. e., an informal meeting at which speeches were made and songs sung, by alumni and professors who had fought, or acted as Chaplains, at the front.
“On Sunday morning there was a High Mass, and the large church, crowded to its utmost capacity, made a fine and moving sight. The University church at Notre Dame is not, like many college chapels, a simple oblong chamber of moderate size, divided into chapel and ante-chapel, but a capacious cruciform church, with nave, aisles, transept, choir and retro-choir, Lady Chapel, and side chapels. Its interior decoration is rich and picturesque, and it makes an ideal setting for a function.
“At this Mass is preached the ‘Baccalaureate Sermon’; on this occasion it was by no means an academic discourse, or learned, but a very simple talk from myself to the young men whose University days were now ended.
“At the end of Mass an enormous ‘Star-Spangled Banner’ was laid on the floor of the sanctuary before the high altar and then blest; then the whole congregation, the clergy in their vestments, and the laity with them, went in procession to the flag-staff in the Campus where the flag was hoisted and ‘broken.’
“In the afternoon new Law Schools were dedicated and opened with many brilliant speeches, chiefly delivered by eminent jurists, alumni of the University; in these orations not only the glory of law was celebrated, but its chief professor at the University druing many years, Colonel Hoynes, a distinguished veteran of the war of North and South. Naturally there was later on a banquet, and a copious desser to speeches, of a high level of merit.
“On the following day there was the base ball match, my attention to which was rather disturbed by a visit from the President, as it was beginning. At the conferring of degrees in the evening the baccalaureate address was to be delivered by Senator Walsh, a United States Senator renouned for his oratory. He telegraphed that he could not get away; would I oblige the President by taking his place? To oblige the President I would have stood for Congress myself, so all the afternoon I had the agreeable consciousness of an unprepared speech to deliver, instead of listening myself to an expected oration from a famous speaker, whom all were eager to hear.
‘tThe Conferring of Degrees was an interesting ceremony, and gave me the occasion of returning thanks for my own Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws, conferred at the commencement of 1917. I may repeat here that I am proud of being a member of the University of Notre Dame, and shall always think with fiilial and loving affection of this American Alma Mater of mine, and of its boundless hospitality.
“On the morning of June 10th, after delivering the Baccalaureate address at St. Mary’s college, and lunching there, we left Notre Dame for Milwaukee, where we arrived at quarter past eight that
night. Among those who saw us off at the station was the President’s young secretary and namesake, John Cavanaugh, who had throughout our visit devoted himself to us, and done all he could to make our stay pleasant.”
That John Ayscough reflected upon and synthetized the impressions gathered during the stay with us is ably testified to by the last chapters in the book which are as bright and informing as any such chapters by other authors that we know of. They have the distinct advantage of coming from the first Catholic to write us with distinct literary skill. All in all, the book deserves a great deal more of attention than it has received— a situation that we hope sincerely will be changed.
SPIRITISM AND INDUCTION.*
KARL ARNDT.
Since men first began to believe that there is another world in which the soul lives forever, they have tried to draw aside 'the veil that separates them from their relatives and friends who have gone and to see and speak to them again. The problem of spiritism, which arises from this desire to communicate with the dead, must be viewed as a problem of induction, and the few genuine mysterious occurrences which have caused so much discussion in recent years must be set aside until a sound hypothesis or working-theory has been discovered. Only then can further investigation be carried on in a thoroughly scientific manner. Now it is evident that if we are to explain the phenonena in question by the theory that they are communications from disembodied spirits, we must be positive that the theory does not contradict the nature of those spirits. If spiritists wish to extend the belief in the personal immortality and the spirituality of souls and make of it an explanation of the facts they investigate, they must prove by a priori reasoning that this extension or application does not oppose that belief. To attempt to satisfy relativists in regard to this matter would
* This profound treatment of “ghosts” startled the St. Thomas Philosophical Society upon the occasion of its January seance.
■ia
Noure dame Schdasric
339
perhaps be a tedious endeavor, but regardless of how relative a man holds truth to be, he cannot deny this much: that if a sophist commence with the fact that there are a sun and a moon, he cannot lose himself in a labyrinth of argument and come to the conclusion that the sun and the moon do not exist. But an examination of the spiritist hypothesis reveals that this precisely is the sin which it commits. Though it starts from our knowl-. edge of the existence of departed souls which are immaterial, this working theory is based upon analogical representations of them as material; though it is a deduction from the principle that disembodied souls preserve their identity, this explanation leads logically to the conclusion that this identity is manifested through strictly material characterise tics, or that there is no real personal immor-s ; tality. Strangely, in constructing theories i about the activities of the dead, spiritists I	seem to have forgotten the dead. It is the
'	purpose of this paper to examine the spirit-
। istic hypothesis by testing its agreement with I some of the fundamental theories regarding 1 the nature of the soul.
The essence of the question must first be determined. Spiritism, properly speaking, is not belief in the existence of an immaterial world (though it is supposedly based upon this truth), nor is it credence in praeternat-ural activities of devils and in the power of God; it is an attempt to prove that human beings communicate with the souls of the departed without the intervention of divine or diabolical influences. Spiritists must demonstrate, then, if they wish to satisfy the ' yearning of which their theory is born, not that spirit intelligences produce certain sensible phenomena, but that these intelligences are the souls of the dead. Spiritism is as distinct from belief in miracles as it attempts to be from Satanic magic. All the materializations, all the conjurations, all the seances of spiritism need do no more than identify the dead and the hypothesis will be an established theory. The possibilities of this explanation turn, evidently, around the individuality of departed souls.
How is it that the hypothesis of spiritism, which its defenders have tried so long to bring into the society of the old truths of philosophy, was born and must live forever
in the realm of dreams and analogies? The answer lies in a peculiar necessity which our nature imposes upon our thought. When we attempt to picture to ourselves the realities of the after-world and its inhabitants, we must of necessity do so with the images we possess of the material universe with wmch we are acquainted.
We picture the soul of a man as the pale analogy of him as we knew him in the body; we think that we see in it shadowy representations of the physical characteristics by v-hich we distinguished him from other men, and we are sure that if it appeared it would look familiar to us and that it would speak and act as it always did. Now if we do not subject our imagination to the stern discipline of reason we are likely to forget that these analogies are analogies; we may think that we see reality in the pictures we have drawn. Spiritists have deceived themslves bj this mental illusion, and because they have forgotten the principles upon which reason bases its knowledge of the immaterial world, they have built up an elaborate system of communication with the dead—the dead with whom they communicate are morbid figures of speech.
Spiritism conceives the soul as another man by that process of self hypnotism which causes one to turn analogies into facts. Its advocates should reasonably be obliged to place an ear phone into the coffin of a deaf man so that his spirit might hear. This gross misrepresentation of dualism leads logically to the theories that the soul is accidentally united to the body; that the disembodied intelligence of a human being is very much as complete a man as is the united body and spirit; and that matter and the immaterial are but degrees of a common material principle. When spiritualism degrades to monism, when the sharp distinction between the material and the immaterial is forgotten, then the existence of spirits becomes a contradictory theory. Spiritism’s attempt to communicate with the dead makes belief in the dead impossible. All this, I think, follows from a comparison of spiritism with the ennobling and purifying spiritualism of Christianity. Perhaps it will be valuable to examine the philosophic basis of spiritism.
340
'G'de Moure Same Scholastic
We know from rational psychology that the soul is a simple substance which is the substantial form of the body. As it is the specific form of the body, and as there are many individuals in the human species, it is not at Jie same time the principle of individuation; that is, though it makes all men men, it does not add those many characteristics by which we can distiguish this man from that man. The body, therefore, the material part of the human substance, is the basis of individuation. By our present meth-cd of knowing we distinguish Mr. A from al’ other men because of those sensible qualities and peculiarities which are proper to bis person, the substantial union of body and soul; but what is the possibility of recognizing his soul when it has left the body and is no longer knowable through it? It is no If nger individuated by those qualities which are distinctly material; it is distinguished from all other souls merely by an inherent determination to its own body which, even if it were not the only material thing through which it could act, is at least the one thing necessary to its being recognized by the living. (The pure spirits, devils, angels and God, are not so limited; they are not determined to operate through any particular material substance). Mr. A’s soul, then, is entirely dissimilar from Mr. A -as we knew him on earth, as far as individuating accidents are concerned. The spiritist analogy is therefore utterly false, for the route to the recognition of any human being which runs through sensations is forever destroyed by his death. The difference between the two orders of being is so unimaginable and
so irreconcilable that reason can appreciate only differences and cannot know resemblances.
But perhaps Mr. A’s soul can identify itself to our satisfaction by giving accurate information about its life on earth with its body. There are two objections against this speculation. In the first place, it is not likely that the soul has from any source whatever, either from its own memory or from its knowledge of all things through God, any knowledge of those many sense facts which might serve as a clue to its identity were they revealed to a medium. For sensations exist, formally, in the enformed body; there
alone can they be retained by the memory. From the standpoint of disembodied souls, sensations are the tools of an obsolete method of obtaining knowledge. Now it may be true that souls have an intuitive understanding of all those things which they once knew by the medium of sensation and of the sense impressions themselves, but it is as impossible for them to translate these ideas into our way of thinking as it is for us to convey a universal idea to the mind of a frog. And there is the additional objection that we would have to receive the spirit’s words with blind faith; it is evident that as we can identify souls only by what they tell us, we can accomplish no more than if they were dumb and untintelligent beings, for we'can never be certain whether a spirit is describing itself or someone. else. The spiritist hypothesis may prove that there is a great impersonal intelligence, but it gives no grounds for believing that there is personal immortality.
But granting that souls are shadow representations of the living to whom they are so similar that they can be identified by their Bertillon measurements' and that they can carry on intimate conversations with us because their intellectual life is akin to that which we lead, how could souls reveal themselves or their thoughts to the minds of the living?
It is certain that souls cannot appear to the living without the intervention of divine power, for in order to produce sense impressions it is necessary that they act through matter, and they are so cut, as it were, that they fit only to their original bodies, to which
• they can be reunited only by a miracle. The question arises, is there an astral substance which can leave the body of the medium and serve for the time being as the body of the. spirit? We might place some trust in such a guess did we not know that there can be no third something between matter and form; that the soul is determined to one body to which it can be re-united after death only by the miracle of resurrection; and that the union of the soul with such an amorphous mass could not reproduce a person as he was in life because the soul is not the principle of. individuation. Furthermore, to speak of “mental telepathy” between the living and
Noure dame Scholastic *
341
the dead, of immediate intuition of the ideas of souls is to admit either that the soul is not substantially united to the body and that therefore it may exercise the powers of a pure spirit, or that souls are material things. For there never was anything more sure than this, that if there is. thought transference, it must occur in this life according to our method of knowing, and in the next, according to the spirits’ method of knowing; there can be no inter-communication of that kind. There is one more possibility. What if the disembodied spirit can act as the soul of the medium? Though this ingenious and revolutionary idea has many adherents among the spirits, it leads to the contradictions which run parallel through the entire hypothesis. The principle that souls are determined to unite with one particular body is enough to cast the assumption into the realm of pure fiction. The importance of this truth should not be under-estimated; were it denied, especially in its applications, practical assent would be given to the ancient doctrine of transmigration of souls, and it would be hard also to see just why there is not an absorption of spirits into the Infinite. But there are other arguments to prove that this convenient shifting of human forms is impossible. No one has ever seriously maintained that an object can have two forms of the same nature at the same time, nor can anyone who has reasoned to the substantial union of body and soul conceive of the successive annihilations of personality that would be involved if the soul of the medium could leave the body. The supposition is distinctly the result of Cartesian doctrines.
All this has been overlooked by those who have elaborated the hypothesis of spiritism. The few genuine phenomena in the mass of table-turnings, materializations, automatic writings, and trance communications which are worthy of scientific investigation cannot be looked at through the self-contradictory and improvable belief that the dead are speaking; if there is to be an inductive solution of the problem, if the belief in personal immortality is to be unblemished, the more r? tional hypotheses of mental telepathy (between the living), suggestion and. the powerful retaining strength of memory must be the working theories. A study
of the mental and moral degeneracy wmch results from excessive interest in these phenomena corroborates the conclusion arrived at in this paper, that what spirit communication there is, is not with the dead.
It is absurd to suppose that the disembodied soul is a copy of the man. If we wish to preserve the purity of our belief in the immaterial world, and if we desire to avoid the morbid superstition which accompanies spiritistic spiritualism, it is better that we adhere to our reason in this matter and ih' we attempt no longer to draw aside a veil Mhich protects us from destruction.
DREAMS.
Changing, the tints of the sunset, Changing, the shadows of dawn, Changing is life—ever changing, To better the things that are gone. Childhood’s gay visions grow dimmer, Hope’s shining star melts away, Dreams of the future will glimmer, We smile at the dreams of today. Tomorrow may shatter the vision, New castles we’ll build for the old. Ever wishing, ne’er hoping to know them, But still we build and are bold.
Changing, the tides of the ocean, Changing, the pearl skies beyond, Changing, ourselves and emotions, , Ever longing for dreams ne’er to come.
w. w. H., EADIN.
TO L. M. F. ON LEAVING COLLEGE.
Out from the harbor!
Forth to the sea!
May fairest winds betide you. •>
If storm-clouds keep
Tryst with the deep
The Star of the Sea will guide you.
Out from the harbor,
Forth to the sea,
Cargoed with hope I send you.
Should thunders shake And tempest break,
May the Star of the Morn befriend you.
Our from the harbor, Forth to the sea!
What a precious ship commanding!
Your heart’s pure gold
Is in the hold,—
Oh, may you find safe landing!
C. S. CROSS.
342
' Norre domeScholasdc
Rubbers Collars: For the Freshman who thinks that a scrap book is a fight program.	.
***
Prof:—Just what was the Counter Reformation?
Jones (in a loud whisper): Prohibition.
Slow:—What’s your idea of a good power plant? Gin:—Heps.
***
Brownson:—You didn’t stay very long with Ruth when you took her home last night, how come?
Soiin:—Just a little tough luck. I leaned on the door-bell.
*** '
We’re told by men of wisdom—guys long-haired That we must have great speech, but I’ve not cared For when I’m asked a question I’m not scared;
1 simply rise and answer “Not prepared.”
*** ‘
One can easily see
That Milton .
Had enough experience
With misery
To write
His great work,
“Paradise Lost.” _
The poor man
Was married	.
Three times.
***
Willowy Winnie says: Honesty doesn’t pay. Look at a ship. Even if it arrives on time it gets docked.
***
Customer:—Have you any fresh fish?
Clerk:—I don’t know. I’ve been working here ■ only a week.
*** . ‘
“They say that the weather in Oregon is beastly.” “How so?”
“It’s always raining cats and dogs.”
***
Two Freshmen named Blair and De Klein.
Took a girl out one evening to dine. ...... .
May I sit bn your right hand, said Blair?. .. ..
She said, “Why not sit on a chair?” . *** .
Izzy (to his friend Abie the baker:—-Aren't you making your rolls a little larger than usual?
Abie:—Don’t kid me. Them is loaves of bread.
“Soldiers mark time with their feet.”
“But clocks do it with their hands.”	.
***
Mr. Jones:—Was your son home for Christmas vacation?
Mr. Smith:.—I think so. A bunch of fresh bills came in yesterday.
*** .
It is rumored that a Freshman “saw the swellest movie, in which a man jumped out of a balloon and came to earth in a parasite.”
People should get up	,
Bright and early,	,
And I
Was just thinking	.
.That a lot of us
Get up early
But not	■
Bright.
***
She:—I think he’s so romantic. He might have stepped from a page in Shakespeare.
He:—Ya! But he took one awful big step.
***
Quick Watson, the noodle.
***
A CAT TALE.
Jack Parsnip and Miss Katnip had A violent love affair.
He said, “I’m Plum entranced with you.
We’ll make a Peachy Pear
And Beans how I love you so.
Lettuce get spliced, my dear?”
Miss Katnip’s ears turned Radish and
■ This wasn’t very queer,
For though-she had no Corns she had
A Cauliflower Ear. • /
Said she, “My sweet, I Cantelope
Though you’re the . Grapes no doubt.
There are some things that Nettle me, And that I must find out.
’ I hate to Leave my home and friends,
- Though you say ‘Honey-dew.’
Your Danda line.is hard to Beet
.To Squash you wouldn’t do. .	.
But are you sure your Celery
•' Is large enough for two.” '
:	.	.	KOLARS,
'Sfie Noure dame Scholastic
343
NOSING INTO PROSE.
“If Winter Comes” continues to be the most popular novel on the campus: a dozen privately owned copies have been working overtime for the last several fortnights and seem to have employment scheduled for as many more. It is interesting to note that the ending is the only part of the story that is unartistic and likewise unethical..One of the best funny books we have seen for a long time is “A Book of Drawings” by H. M. Bateman, to which G. K. C. has supplied the introduction. Frankly we are in favor of a law compelling every cartoonist to add this volume to his library, whether he has one or not. ... It is hard to make up one’s mind about Woodrow Wilson, precisely because, in spite of his obstinacy, he seems never to have made it up himself. His friends will say, of course, that he had no ready-made mind. Anyhow, there isn’t a great deal in Joseph Tumulty’s “Woodrow Wilson as I Knew Him” except a quantity of sentimental heroworship and a number of interesting anecdotes. . . . “Fifty Years a Journalist,” by Melville E. Stone, former General Manager of the Associated Press, will interest those hopeful young persons who are looking for a similar job. Others are likely to find it something of a bore. . . . That prince of contemporary Irish prose-writers, Daniel Corkery, has a corking good volume of short stories which is called the “Hounds of Banba” and ought to fascinate the literati and other Irishmen. . . . Admitting that we had no intention of invading the realms of poets free and otherwise, we cannot refrain from mentioning the fact that the collected poems of Edwin Arlington Robinson have recently been issued'by the Macmillans. Mr. Robinson is quite' generally considered the chief of living American poets, although that doesn’t necessarily mean the most enjoyable or even the most enduring. . . . Let’s leave the books in the heap and lift up the cover of magazine literature for a moment—just a moment. Of course there are many likeable things, but we would draw your worthy attention to Mr. Hilaire Belloc’s denunciation of H. G. Wells’ little venture into history. No rebuttal since the fiery old days when Dean Swift jabbed his soft-soapy contemporaries
in the stomach has quite the savage violence of Belloc at his best; we shall merely add that in dealing with Wells, the author of the criticism that appears in the recent Yale Review is at his best........... We have always been fond of the Atlantic Monthly and shall continue to be, we hope, even though our nervous system be unsettled occasionally. How in the world its editor ever allowed Mrs. Cornelia James Cannon to appear in his august periodical with an article on “American Misgivings” is, however, more than we can understand. It is not her conclusions with which we take issue—for after all everybody is entitled to a few conclusions of his or her very own—but with her dogmatically asserted premises. Do you remember those old psychology tests that the Army used to put on while you winked and wondered what it was all about and who was “getting the graft” out of this eminently elaborate jargon? Well, those venerable fossils have been dug up by Mrs. Cannon who tells us among other amusing things that (a) “the tests were most carefully devised and given” (sic); (b) “they worked”; (c) they “were applied on so huge a scale, and with so complete an elimination of personal slant. . ; . that the data. . . .are almost in a class by themselves;” and (d) “the average men were as helpless without them [the men of superior intelligence] as frogs without their cerebrums.” Think these things over, O thou young man who didst go through everything an average man, and reflect that Mrs. Cannon has demonstrated that without Jim the bespectacled field-clerk, Jones the sergeantmajor, and Prescott, the invaluable first-louie, you would have been a frog without a cerebrum. Then laugh. Think of old Daniel Boone passing a psychology test or Mrs. Cannon devising a system, for capturing a machine-gun I Perhaps—of course, one can never be sure—if Mrs. Cannon knew as much about those psychology tests as the average man who took them, she would have “respected the risibilities,” as a Johnsonian friend of ours is in the habit of saying. . . . Among the British weeklies (why can’t the English produce a monthly periodical that isn’t either a boneyard or a sideshow?) there is none to which we hie with more continuous enjoyment than the New Witness. Amen.
344
Noure dame Scholastic
C.
H. W. Flannery
C. O. DeBarry
LV.
Birt #t (liters
Paul Breen
August Firp
Robert D. Shea Harold E. McKee Karl Arndt
Leo R. Ward, C. S. Vincent Engels Frank. Wallace
W.
G.
R. M. Murch, C. S. C. Edwin Murphy Gerald Hagan Charles Molz • Frank McGinnis ■ Francis J. Kolars Gilchrist
Charles HirsciibuhlAaiion H. Huguenaud
isct ©tmsi
>Unf urns


The Religious Survey of last year, the record of which is so inspirational in many ways, unveils one lamentable fact. That Catholic students do not CATHOLIC READING, read Catholic literature, or read far too little of it, is plainly the eye-sore on the published survey. Scarcely fifty per cent of the men who reported on this matter have read while in college one Catholic book; and of that percentage nearly one-third has not acquired a taste for anything beyond juvenile productions. These are unadorned facts too eloquent in themselves, but we add to them a couple of platitudes. In the first place, the young man who does hot develop his acquaintance and appreciation of Catholic literature during his college days, will never develop them, and hence will forfeit a large part of the heritage which is his. Secondly, the student at Notre Dame has within reach every form of Catholic literature in abundance—books of travel, science, history, and fiction. The reading of Catholic books can, of course, be urged by preachers and demanded by professors; but in this, as in everything else, the real reformation must begin with the individuals concerned, and when it has well rooted itself there, it will spread naturally in all directions until readiness in Catholic literature has become one of the genuine and laudable traditions of the men of Notre Dame.	ward.
There used to be a time when you could go to the theater in South Bend and see an hon-est-to-goodness show—one in which there were live people moving SPEAKING OF THE about on the stage, mixed theater.' up in complications of one sort or another. That time was not so long ago. Now you have to choose between motion pictures and vaudeville with the choices favoring the former. The situation that is presented is not, however, unusual. Rather, it is becoming quite common. The legitimate drama is beinggiven gradual doses of narcotic as the public turns more and more to its twentieth century favorite, the motion picture.
' The kinship between motion pictures and spoken drama is so close that their methods are often confused. As works of art, a distinction must be made; yet as art, it is difficult to compare them, so vast is the difference in their development. The stage is life; the screen is only a mirror for life. And yet the public prefers the screen.
The public usually knows what it wants. It may know what it wants in the way of entertainment. There are times, however, when we wonder whether the public is not the victim of a movie mania, which is killing not its victim, the public, but the spoken drama.’ Ninety per cent of the motion pictures that are shown in our theaters are indifferent entertainment. It is only once in
'Site Noure &ame Scholastic
six months that we find satisfying amusement. The majority of people go to see them one of habit or because they want to pass away an hour dr two. That the producers understand this very well is proved by the unlimited supply of second-rate films.
When theaters long devoted to legitimate attractions are turned over to motion pictures, the real threat of the films is presented. Their growth strikes at the root of the drama. To say they can destroy it is false. What they can do is to limit its influence to cities where the numbers from which the theater-going public is drawn are large. This condition is already arising. We would be less inclined to deplore this situation if the class of motion pictures we see were higher. There would be less cause for complaint if the films struck a higher note, both in tableau and in legend.
The only redeeming influence in the smaller cities becomes the Little Theater. This movement has never tried, however, to fill a place alongside the professional stage. It has sought to encourage greater appreciation of the drama and to promote local theatricals. It can, and will, do much to preserve the play in those less fortunate cities where it is disappearing. To expect it to do more is futile. '	molz.
As the disarmament conference closes, all of us are prone to wonder what the permanent accomplishments of the conference will be. Outside of the AS THE parley CLOSES, agreements on naval limitation, the four-power treaty, the submarine controversy and the debate between Japan and China over Shantung, there has been little news that has seeped out of the conference halls. Secret .... lomacy Suh prevails.
The four-power treaty assumes for the United States the greatest importance of any part of the conference work. There are bound to be conflicting opinions over this new arrangement in the Pacific. We predict that the treaty will suffer mutilation at the hands of the Senate. The upper house has reached the place where it believes it—the Senate— must make very few concessions so far as treaties are concerned. Even President
345
Harding is not likely to find his recent tenure of much assistance in overcoming the determined attitude that some of his former colleagues are likely to adopt. The treaty, as it stands, merely binds the United States, England, France and .Japan to maintain peace in the Pacific. “That is not enough,” cry the pacifists. “We are breeding trouble, cry the-alarmists.
The conference has not been without its interesting sidelights. The American conferees were diplomatically busy like so many hosts at a poker game. The Italians were jealous of the French and said so. The English smiled and told stories like men who were confident of a royal flush. The French wiggled their thumbs at the English all the while, until Premier Briand, who had talked himself hoarse in his use of epithets for the English, was accused of not having talked enough, and thereupon lost his job. The Japanese, like the English, smiled, but told no stories; they were thinking. Only the Chinese felt embarrassed and out of place.
Good is always accomplished when men get together to talk things over. Unless we arc mistaken, only that was the intention of the present conference. It is a success no matter what its record remains. Nevertheless, those who expect too much will be disappointed. ■ So long as the causes for war are present in the world, there is little accomplished in cutting down armaments. The greatest contribution toward world peace will be made by the man who assists in bringing about a better understanding among the nations. Misunderstandings are the cause for, arms merely the contributing factors in aH war.
MOLZ.
“ENGINEERS TO THE FORE.
For some time to come the Engineers reg-: istered in the St. Joseph Valley Chapter and the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of Engineers will remember the evening of January 30th. On this occasion the Chapters met at Kable’s cafeteria and when a delicious meal had been consumed proceeded to this official business. Our Engineers at Notre Dame heard Mr. Perkins cordially extend an invitation to our student
Notre &ame£chdasric
346
Engineers to become closely affiliated with the local chatper. They heard Mr. M. T. Calif, state representative of the Engineers, outline the work of this association in a most interesting manner.	.
After the Washington Hall humorists, composed of Egan, Storey, Walther, Aley and Van Wonterghon (Don Young keeping time with his fingers), had rendered a few delightfully entertaining selections, the members sat back in their chairs and numerous rings of smoke rose to the ceiling. To cap a very successful evening Mr. A. A. Potter, Dean of Engineering at Purdue, gave a most inti -resting address on “Engineering as a Great Profession.” His topic could not have been better chosen, for he so traced the engineering profession to early centuries that each engineer’s chest registered an expansion of six inches. A better man could not have been asked to sepak on that subject for all who heard him gained valuable information for future discussion. Credit must be given both Chapters for their work on the meeting. The officers of the St. Joseph Valley Chapter deserve to be proud of this achievement. They are: President, Mr. C. A. Perkins, C. E. ’07 University of Michigan; Vice-President, Mr. R. O. Probst E. E. ’ll, University of Notre Dame, and Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. H. C. Weaver, C. E. ’ll, University of Purdue.
No one can say our Engineers have not given the other students a mark to aim at.
Engineers and everybody else ought to remember the significance of Lincoln, whose birthday will be celebrated at the close of the week. We may look upon him as a great president, as a man of war but also of great tenderness and rare sympathy; but it may, perhaps, be best for us to consider him as the symbol of our pioneer democracy, the democracy which did things without forgetting that it was also necessary to be things. Lincoln had very little intellectual training, but to be the man he was he must have gone through a severe and searching discipline of the soul. Too frequently we forget, or allow ourselves to lose sight of, the all importance cf that discipline: we fool ourselves with absorption in what he term the “practical,” and drift farther and farther away from the moorings of the spirit. Some times one is inclined to believe that Lincoln’s education,
received from meagre books by the light of a log fire, did him more good than what some of us allow college training to accomplish.
AN IMPORTANT REVIEW
Conflict of Laws. By John P. Tiernan. Callaghan & Co., Chicago Ill.
Few are the writers of legal text books. Most law books are compiled, not written. John P. Tiernan, Professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, however, in his conflict OF law, recently from the press of Callaghan & Company, has demonstrated the practicability of a law book that is arranged logically and thought our clearly, or, in other words, written from the head and not from dictionaries and digests.
His diction is direct throughout; his style is simple. Taking up the subject of the conflict of laws, in the first few paragraphs the author explains the source of such conflicts and then proceeds to the principle of comity between the states as the broadest underlying principle of his subject. Then he proceeds in subsequent chapters to the subjects of torts, contracts, remedies, marriage, wills, crimes and other subjects as applied to the conflict OF LAWS.
The author’s work is one primarily for the law schools and intended, no doubt, to be used in conjunction with the selected case system. Broad in its scope and brief in its handling of the subject, it serves to give the law student a general idea of the conflict OF laws and to let him know what he is driving at and what it is all about before he takes up the cases with their separate points and fragmentary rules. .
The work creates an interest in the subject by not only giving the law, but the reasons for the law, also. Thus the subject, in the minds of the students, is not led to be a bundle of ^rules, but is made into an attractive structure, and the rules being supported by reasons simply given, are much easier to remember. The writer supports his points by ruling cases cited and briefly quoted.
THe book is easy to read and if more text books of this kind were written it would undoubtedly improve the standard of youthful members of the bar and leave fewer text books to the mercy of book worms and the dust of gathering years. The conflict of laws is Professor Tiernan’s first work. The alumni of the Notre Dame Law School are proud of his effort and the writer has the assurance of Professor Tiernan that similar books on other legal subjects will be forth coming in the very immediate future.
Walter L. C. Clements
South Bend, Indiana.
The next issued of the Scholastic will appear under the guise of an “Editors’ Number” on February 18th. Wherefore, gentle reader, do not look for a copy next Saturday.

Nocre $ame Scholastic
I i
|	MEMORABLE MEN.
t
[	On January 18, 1922, Mr. Edward J.
O’Connor was married to Miss Mary A. Spalding, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. A. Spalding, Springfield, Kentucky. Mrs. O’Connor is the sister, of Tom and Ben Spalding, each of whom spent several years at Notre ; < Dame. Ed was here during 1917-18-19 and acquired fame from his high grades in electrical engineering. We wish them the best of everything.
i	Richard “Dick” Daly, Ph. B. in Journalism,
;	’16, well known athlete and basketball cap-
tain, is connected with the advertising department of the Erie Dispatch, Erie, Penna.
Emmett Costello, LL.B., ’16, and Edward McMahon, LL.B. ’20, have formed a law partnership at Anderson, Indiana. The him is known as Costello and McMahon.
J
Carleton Beh, LL.B., ’18, and wife of Des Moines, Iowa, visited Notre Dame last week while on their honeymoon. The newly married couple will spend some weeks in the South and will be at home in Des Moines some time next month.
George Rinehart, old student 1914-15, is engaged in the practice of law in Kansas City, Mo. . At present, he is in the East gathering materials for a c^ise which promises to be of national interest.
।	Harold Miehls, who was here last year, is
chief inspector and operator at the W. B. Duck Plant, Toledo, Ohio. He writes that next year will find him back on the campus.
Another alumnus to include Notre Dame cn his honeymoon trip was Frank Kirkland, LL.B., ’17, noted track maik Mr. and Mrs. Kirkland were here shortly'before school reopened in January. 1
Thomas Gallagher, A. B., 1892, Judge of t the County Court at Fitchburg, Mass., is a loyal booster. He never misses an opportunity to talk N. D. to prospective students, and we are informed that he has his offices proudly decorated with insignia of the Gold and Blue.
Paul Crowley, Ph. B., ’20, is teaching and , coaching at Clairmont High School, Clairmont, New Hampshire. He had very good
347
success with his football team last fall, and he tells us it was due a great deal to the use of old Notre Dame plays.
Earl O’Connor, here from 1915 to 1917, better known on the campus as “Stretch” is now in the laboratories of the Hammerhill Paper Co., Erie, Pennsylvania.	.
See the current American Magazine for information on “Getting Married at Forty-two,” by Frank Ward O’Malley. The author is one of the most prominent Notre Dame men to enter journalism.	.
Another wedding! Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Duffy, of Nogales, Arizona, announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary, to Mr. James Vermon Robins, who departed from these premises with a degree and the affection of all Sorin in 1913. We are sure that the Robins will build a substantial and satisfying nest.	'
David Guthrie, varsity football man of 1905 and 1906 has accepted a position with the Ontario Power Plant of Ontario, California.
Ed Reynolds, who received his B. S. in Chern, degree here a short time ago is studying medicine at Harvard. He enjoys the hong; of having the highest average in his class.
Will Croze, engineering student during 1919-20, is now at Rio de Janeiro, where heis engaged with his father in a commercial enterprise.	.
M. Joseph Tierney, ’21, whose memory is ; celebrated by Mgr. - Bickerstaffe-Drew in ' “First Impressions of America,” will take a master’s degree at the University of . Rochester next June. Joe is said university’s mainstay in economics.
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland was organized in December as a convenient way of bottling the old school energy running riot in that city. Officers were selected as follows: Raymond T. Miller, President; John . P. Murphy, Vice President; Bernard C. Me-Garry, Jr., Secretary; Rev. M. L. Moriarity, Treasurer. The Club gave its first dance, a . : social affair of unusual brilliance, at the. Hotel Statler on the evening of December _ . 26th. Recently it has arranged for a banquet
348
Moure dame Schdascic
to be given as an impetus to the Endowment Drive, when that financial whirlwind reaches Cleveland. We wish the Club a long life and plenty of happiness during that life.
. Bernard C. McGarry, of the class of ’19, has been in complete charge of the construction of Cleveland’s new $8,000,000 Auditorium, which is to reach completion some time this month and to be one of the very finest in these United States.
William (Bill) White, Agriculture ’21, ascended the steps of Sorin last Sunday and stayed for a day or two—even accepting the privilege of eating at the head table. White is doing post-graduate work at the University of Illinois under the veteran supervision of Dean Davenport, whose knowledge of matters concerning the culture of the soil is declared by his pupil a marvel worthy of two-inch headlines.	huguenard.
IN RE REBUTTAL.
The debating season has found its sealegs, or whatever legs debating seasons have to stand on. In the final tryouts held last ■week, those present—there were a few besides the judges but not nearly a sufficient number to show any reasonable appreciation of the effort put forth—were favored with a surprisingly even variety of oratory and argument. The judges’ decisions were made as follows: D. Vincent Engels, James Hogan, C. S. C., Raymond Gallagher, Joseph Rhomberg, M. Nolan, Frank Cavanaugh, C. S. C., members of the teams in the order named; Casimir Witucki, C. S. C., and Frank Drum-mey, C. S. Ci., alternates. Mr. Engels was notable for a1 powerful and dramatic argumentative delivery and Mr. Hogan proved himself once more Notre Dame’s smoothest orator. Everybody was so uniformly good, however, that we may look forward confidently to a season of unusual brilliance.
Father Bolger has divided the men into groups with his usual uncanny divination of what -will make a good team. Engels, Nolan and Cavanaugh will comprise the affirmative team; Hogan, Rhomberg and Gallagher will defend the negative side of the question. An extensive bibliography has been collected and the men are hard at work
trying to discover just those little things about a question upon which the success of a debate depends.
The actual struggle will begin before very long. On the first Friday of March, our negative team will go to Wabash College, while our affirmative warriors will battle Valparaiso here. On the third Friday of the same month, Indiana University will journey to Notre Dame to encounter our negative team whose affirmative brethren will migrate to Indianapolis for a bout with Indiana Central College. One of the most important and certainly the most novel debate of the year will be heard when Colby College of Maine will meet our affirmative in Washington Hall. Colby is sending a team across country in the interests of the open shop.
Debating deserves the hearty support of all students at the University. The question to be discussed—the' principle of the closed shop—is a very fundamental one in all discussions relative to capital and labor. Those who wish to get in touch with the best thought on this topic, who wish to reinforce their opinions with something definite, can do no better than to come to Washington Hall and listen to men who, under the guidance of a very able director, have patiently sifted and arranged all the available information.
OURSELVES.
When diminutive Paul T. Breen poured a tureen of soup and lake water on the flames which had secured a strong hold on the “bank” in Brother Cyprian’s accounting class room last Monday noon, he saved the Main Building from imminent destruction. The fire was discovered by students leaving the refectories, and a mad rush at the doors led the way to the sensational, climax. Fortunately, the fire was extinguished before much damage was done, though many freshman accountants assert that it should at least have burned those tell-tale examination papers.
v
Aquatic experts who wish to learn some new strokes and landlubbers who have yet to wet their feet have an opportunity of taking advantage of swimming lessons being
Norre 6ame Scholastic
349
given in the university natatorium. The series of instructions began last Tuesday and will continue throughout the semester. The new class can be used as a substitute for the classes in physical culture.
❖ ❖ ❖
Students from Fort Wayne are not entirely wrong when they state that their club is the most active on the campus. For, though most clubmen have scarcely forgotten the pleasant affairs of last Christmas vacation, this sedate body of scholars has already completed arrangements for a dance to be given in the home town on Easter Monday. Aaron Huguenard, Edward Lennon, and Joseph Luley are members of the committee which is to send invitations to Fort Wayne alumni and which is then going to busy itself with preparing a program.
At a special business meeting held last Tuesday afternoon the Chemists’ Club elected the following officers: President; Leo J. Lovett; Vice-President, Cornelius Alt; Secretary, George Uhhneyer, and Member-at-large, Robert G. Quinn. Father Nieuwland’s prize of five dollars in gold for the best paper read within the first semester was awarded to Daniel Nolan, ’23. The subject of his essay was “The Manufacture of Paper.”
❖ ❖❖
' “Johnny” Murphy distinguished himself in the Milrose games in New York by capturing-first place in the high-jump with a leap of six feet four and three-fourths inches. This is Johnny’s best performance and also the world’s best. It is a hopeful indication of the form which Johnny happens to be in just now, The relay team, running together for the first time, managed to get second in the Inter-Catholic College mile relay. We hope to give more particulars about this matter soon.
❖ ❖❖
Registration Day, Monday the thirtieth, was a great success if bustle and confusion may be said to signify success. From early in the morning until after five in the evening, the portals of the magnificent establishment over which Father Fbik presides with a certain majesty opened to diligent youngmen in search of classes. Quite a number of
new things have been added to the curriculum, including a very strange subject, “Com- -mercial Algebra,” to be taught by Mr. Coryri and said to resemble the weird symbolism employed by the ancient alchemists in transmuting the baser metals. In the loftier realm of literature, Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., has attracted to his lectures on the great books of the world almost one hundred students from the various colleges. This is indicative of interest in the things of the spirit and also in Father Cavanaugh—but the Dante Roo ?. will unfortunately be too small for the crowd. .
v	•
The Senior Ball Committee has solved the perplexing problem of “ways and means.” The first solution will take the form of a “Hard Times Jamboree” to be enjoyed February 13th, in the Tribune building. By ruling of the Committe, the dance -will not be “hard” enough to permit the wearing of hobnails, nor will it be sufficiently “soft” to, tolerate the presence of white collars and any variety of ties. The Big Five Orchestra will regulate the movement of the entertainment. The second answer is incorporated in the plans for two Notre Dame nights at the Blackstone Theater. On these evenings, which will probably come toward the end of this month, the management of the theater and the senior class will cooperate in furnishing a first-rate entertainment—and will subsequently work in conjunction in dividing the receipts.	■
't*	-i*
The next issue of the Scholastic will appear under the guise of an “Editors’ Number” on February 18th. Wherefore, gentle reader, do not look for a copy next Saturday.
A frigid tour with Newman’s Travelogues as the vehicle and a lecturer as the guide, will be taken by Notre Dame the last of this, and the first of next month. Last year, warm, verdant Ireland was the place of travel, and scenes of green mountain woods and silver mountain lakes, passed the eyes, with here and there passing lorries carrying armed men, who built barb-wired entanglements about their quarters and wreaked reprisals. This year, cold white Alaska, Iceland and the

I J	•
[	350
J
!	beautiful Canadian Rockies, will be the way
'	of the tourists. Newman Travelogues have
always pleased the severe cynics of Washington Hall, for these travelogues are shown before they are whiskered, and the lecturers do not mar pleasant landscapes with inane wheezes. Alaska is the cinema subject for February 23, the Canadian Rockies for ,	March 2, and Iceland for March 9. Unmov-
:	ing globe-pacers with names that denote an
ancestry in the Free State across the water may not be as deeply interested in a trip to these northern countries as to Ireland, but they will find much worth the stepping to Washington Hall, if Newman pictures these lands as he has pictured others.
■ ***
. We regret that it has become necessary to chronicle the departure of Edwin J. Murphy connected intimately and in many sad ways with the conduct of this journal. When Edwin first entered this University the cus-tom-with reporters for the Scholastic was to supply the truth about goings-on and to neglect tne amazing services of the imagination. This, he recognized at a glance, was wasting one of the. transcendent opportunities of modern journalism; and accordingly even our most faithful readers began to scent a bit of mental perfumery. Those who had been interviewed or observed occasionally detected something weirdly unfamiliar and gently suggested the morals of journalism. Notwithstanding all of these thing’s Murphy’s performance was extraordinarily noteworthy; he discovered Pio Montenegro and press-agented him liberally; he invented ‘‘Autoclave miscroscopes,” which drew a telegram of inquiry from the Department of ■	Agriculture; and finally by transmuting the
alphabet of names he furnished normal puzzle-lovers with many an evening’s sport. Edwin has migrated to Flint, Michigan, for the balance of the year, there to act as a journalist. He hopes to return next season, and certainly we do most earnestly hope that his expectations will be fulfilled.	t
***
The Library has just received a full new set of Murray’s English Dictionary. This great work on the language which all of us , would like to master has a history remark-
'Sfie Now dome ^cholasdc
able in character and a future which is commensurate with that history. Students will find it interesting to look into Murray without waiting for necessity to spur them on.
,
Without resting on their laurels, or their radiators in these days of the bonnie cauld blasts, the Notre Dame Players are busy preparing for the future. Professor. Daniel Sullivan has selected several new plays which he believes are equal in quality to “The Clod.” For the time being our players will adhere to the Little Theatre Movement even to the extent of using little dramas. Later it is expected that opportunity will present itself to stage a three-act play. With our men determined to do their best under the able direction of their coach, we may look forward to an interesting season. The men themselves await eagerly the development of plans that will bring them before the public in several neighboring cities.	arndt.
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
HOCKEY.
The Notre Dame Hockey Team continues to distinguish itself in a most distinguished manner. Michigan Aggies were met here and conquered to the tune of 11-0 in a spectacular contest that brought out a large crowd. During the week Captain Castner led his men into the north and has been able to report two victories at Houghton. The first was gained by a score of 4-1; the second was annexed by a count of 3-2 and was played overtime. As there isn’t room for more this week and, as anyhow, no detailed information has been received from the North we shall defer a complete chronicle until later.
VICTORY ON THE COURT.
Minus the services of Captain Kiley, Harry Mehre and Eddie Anderson, who were included in the group of Notre Dame athletes disqualified for professionalism, our basketball team fought. desperately against the Michigan Aggies and won decisively Tuesday night.; The score was 31-22.
The game was by all odds the most inter-
351

■i:%3
> i
esting which has been performed in our gymnasium this season. During the greater part of the game, the score was tied. One team would forge ahead only to lose its lead in a minute. Good passing by the Aggies, and a wonderful defense on the part of Notre Dame featured the contest. Although our team played as a team, and not as individuals, no one could help seeing that Frank McDermitt was the big factor in our victory. The new captain played with more speed and shot with more accuracy than , has characterized his work so far this year.
NOTRE DAME.
BLACKSTONE
-——T H E A T R E———
Watch this space
for the coming
Logan, r. f._____ Gilligan, r. f___
Kane, 1. f.______ Coughlin, 1. f.__ Kennedy, c_______
McDermott, r. g.
Mayl, 1. g-------
B.
_2
_1
F.
0 0
0 0
.1 1 .7 0
0 0
7 0
P. T.
0 0
2
1 1
1
3
0 0 0 0
0 2 0
attractions at
this Theatre.
Totals
12 7
8
2
MICHIGAN AGGIES. .	.
B. F.
Heasley, r. f_ Gilkey, Wilcox, 1. g. Foster, c_____j.___ Matson, r. g__
Swanson, 1. g._____
Fessendon, 1. g.___
.1 .4
.3 0
.0 .0
0 6
0 0
0 0
P.
2
4
2
0
3
0
T.
1 0
0
1
1 0
Totals
8
6
11
3
Free throws—Missed, McDermott 7, Gilkey
4.
Referee—Millard,	Ill. Wes.	Umpire—Cooper,
Springfield.
PROFESSIONALISM ONCE MORE.
During’the past week further sensational revelations of the extent to which semi-professional football has inavded the college sport shook the athletic organization of Notre Dame. An investigation recently begun by the University of Illinois to ascertain the part played by Illinois athletes in a professional football game at Taylorville resulted in the implication, not only of nine Illinois . me?., but of eight Notre Dame athletes as well. Monday morning the eight men, Eddie Anderson, Roger Kiley, Harry Mehre, Buck Shaw, Chet Wynne, Bob Phelan, Earl Walsh,
Will Rogers
J Once belonged to the beauty chorus J of the ZIEGFELD FOLLIES— ♦ now look at him!
*	, With
t	LILA LEE
.5	in ’
“One Glorious Day”
PARAMOUNT ASTOUNDER at the

LASALLE

'i

352
'Sfie Noure dame Scholastic
SWANK
CAN MAKE YOU LOOK LIKE A Million Dollars For 75 Cents.
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING
Agent on Campus
| OLIVER THEATRE
Palace Theatre Corp. Lessees
STARTING SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5
TYRONE POWER
in
“FOOTFALLS”
ADDED SPECIALTY
THE TWELVE SUNSHINE KIDDIES
IN SONGS AND DANCES
If you want a Good Haircut Patronize
The Campus Barber Shop
WASHINGTON HALL PAUL WAMPLER, Proprietor
TOILET ARTICLES FOR SALE
and “Cy” Seifrit approached Father Carey, and voluntarily confessed having participated in the game. By the middle of the afternoon, press syndicates had spread the news over the entire country.
The game in which our men were involve:! was played November 27 at Taylorville. It seems that considerable rivalry has always existed in an athletic way between Taylorville and Carlinville, a neighboring town. The professional football teams representing these two places meet yearly, and large sums of money are wagered on the result. Now this fall, someone in Carlinville planned to “clean up” in a gambling way on the folk of Taylorville- Eight of our men were secured to appear in the Carlinville lineup, but meanwhile Taylorville heard of the scheme, and hired nine Illinois players. Eddie Anderson played quarterback for the Carlinville team, according to the report, and the opposing squad won the game 16-7.
So much for the game. After Illinois began investigating, and Notre Dame was implicated, the athletic board sent Professor William Farrell to investigate at Urbana and Taylorville. Before he could complete his mission, however, the confessions were made. Although no formal action has been taken as yet by the athletic board, the men are automatically disqualified for further 'participation in amateur athletics. Our basketball team loses Eddie Anderson, Harry Mehre and Captain Roger Kiley. Frank McDermitt has been elected to succeed him as captain. The track team suffers the loss of Captain Chet Wynne, and Buck Shaw. The baseball team loses Kiley, and football prospects for next year are not dimmed by the loss of Seifrit. ,
as we go to press, no official action of the Faculty Board of Athletic Control can be reported. The Board sent one of its members, Professor Farrell, out to get whatever information was available. Upon his return, a definite settlement of the matter may confidently be expected. Notre Dame took the initiative towards a gneral house-cleaning in college sports—a ventilation - process 'that seems indeed inevitable for all schools and desirable also from the point of view of “The Game.”	engels.
Houre foime Scholastic
353
CHANGE
By McGinnis.
WHERE’S OURS. .
A pi-ofessor of educational psychology at Minnesota University said recently that an important function of a University is to act as a matrimonial bureau. He claimed that it brought people of high intellect together. Yes?
4* 'I* ¥
PAGE MISTER AMENDMENT. .
The University of Pennsylvania has just been donated a wonderful gift. The more-than-benevolent donor has given the college a brewery. The brewery is approximately 3,700 years, old dating from about 1800 B. C., and the only trouble with it is that it is only a model.
The Ohio Wesleyan Glee Club has just returned from a trip through the Panama Canal Zone at the expense of the government." It included a stop-off at . Haiti, seeing locks and governmental buildings there, ' visits to curio shops and cabarets, airplane flights and a visit on the U. S. S. Pennsylvania.—Ex.
We expect that there was much Glee in Cuba not long ago.	-	-
*** -
Coco Cola School won the annual cross country race, staged in the South this year, in which six Methodist colleges were represented. -./‘Sold .on the Grounds” would suitably express the condition of affairs if dear old Koke had lost, no?
•I* -i* ¥	'
IN SUNNY TENNESSEE.
The Pi Beta Phi sorority of the -University of Texas is supporting a mountain school in Tennessee, where more than 125 children of the illiterate mountaineers are getting an education. Tennessee was selected when the school was founded, because at that time it had the largest illiterate population of any state in the union. The school, which is known as the Pi Beta Phi Settlement School, opened in 1912 with an attendance of thirteen.—Ex.
***
Columbia University, the largest University in the world is at last measured for 1922 and its size is just 22,952 students. That is a few thousand less than a Easterner would imagine and a few thousand more than a Westerner would admit. This is what makes accounting complicated.'
ELI IS A WORKING MAN NOW.
That Yale is a rich man’s college is a theory that has been exploded by the fact that more than fifty-one per cent of the students of old Eli earned all or part of their, expenses during the last school year. At this statement a reason becomes apparent for the school’s notoriously wealthy alumni.
THE GATES SCHOOL
FOR DANCING
Located in the business center of South Bend 120 East Wayne Street. Phone Lincoln 6491
Has been established in the city of South Bend for three years and has attained the highest success in the Art of teaching dancing.
WE GUARANTEE TO TEACH YOU TO *	DANCE
Private lessons where all,embarrassment of •learning is eliminated. Two large private studios, open daily 2 to 10 p. m.
SPECIAL COURSE RATES WITHIN THE . REACH OF EVERYONE.
When you have tried all others and failed, try the GATES SYSTEM, better still, begin with GATES and have no more trouble or worry about failure, or waste of time and money.
PROF. CHARLES C. GATES, Director
MISS ESTHER MURRAY, Assistant
Perhaps you don’t bow what flavor yon want—
Then why not drop in and find out?
The Chocolate Browns are as rich as a Landlord—
The Huckleberry Blues were never tastier— The Apple Greens run just a little deeper than still water—	.
And the new Cinnamon shades will linger in your memory like a coil of golden hair.
No trouble to show the goods—we regard it a privilege to take you thru’ the new Spring modes and introduce you to the new fashionable models—and unless we’re very much mistaken, you’ll be glad to meet them.
Royal Tailor Spring Samples
Ralph D. King
304 Main Street
x Niles, Michigan.
354
Moure dame Scholastic
REMINGTON
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
10 POUNDS 10 OUNCES
FARMERS TRUST BUILDING SOUTH BEND Main 620
The John Hale Hat Store
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. fin
Howard Schrop,
THE HATTER
127 Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SHOOTING THE BIG TEN.
Ohio State University has made a proposal that rifle shooting be made a minor sport in the Big Ten and that a conference be organized similar to the Big Ten Conference for other sports. Every Conference school is expected to adopt the plan and “shoots” will soon be arranged.
• ***
During the last football season Iowa used a drum seven feet in diameter and fifty inches in width to make noise at football games. It was mounted on a carriage with two wheels and when the drum and carriage were together the whole noise-machine stood nine feet from the ground. It was said that when some healthy husky drummed the drum the crying crowd was surely silenced.
***
Special bulletin from Ithaca says that Cornell has formed a class in basketball officiating. The students are given opportunities to officiate in varsity scrimmages and at intercollege, interfraternity and independent league games. If ability is shown they are approved by the committee in New York as recognized basketball officials.
***
CURIOSITY SHOP MIND.
And now, let us close with a yclept editorial which is reprinted here because it is good. All our encyclopedias are not in the library and it seems that someone else is afflicted in the same way:
Occasionally one meets a man with a mind like an overstocked curiosity shop, a mind cluttered with countless shabby, dusty facts, a dingy mind unlit by the sunlight of rich human sympathies and common sense that life-contacts yield. Such a man can perhaps tell you Alabama’s cotton production for 1897, or maybe the middle name of Buchanan’s minister to Denmark, although if he is that good he is doubtless in vaudeville. More likely his feats are less spectacular, and he is a laundry driver or a clerk.
He will never succeed, except possibly at vaudeville, because he lacks intelligence to distinguish between facts, and between facts and principles. On a lesser scale, he has prototypes at Washington.
Books are fitter custodians of most facts than the mind. Many touchstone facts must be learned, truly, but time and retentive power conspire to limit the number of facts the average person can make his own. Most facts should be left to rest on library shelves, there subject to resort, not lugged about.
Principles, the trees of which facts are leaves, are far fewer, and worthier of seeking and retaining. One principle leads to a million facts, a million facts to a single principle. In so far as a student masters and remembers principles, and builds his own thought on them, he is a thinker, not a human encyclopedia. His learning is adaptable, not mechanical.—University Washington Daily.
Noure 6ame ^chotascic
355
WALK=OVER
Dress 1Oxfords’’........$8.00
Dress Shoes............. 9.00
Phoenix Silk Socks, 75c-1.10
C LOUSE’S	4
s Doot Shop w nr So. Michigan St.
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
On the. corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students- and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN T. CALVEY, Manager
SPRING MODELS ARE NOW IN
Shop
The Shop That Satisfies.
n6 WASHINGTON STREET
A BANK THAT
WELCOMES YOUNG MEN
TpHE small account is just as welcome here “ as the' big one—this bank has but one grade of service, of courtesy and of appreciation.
CITIZENS
/ Trust and Savings
NEXT TO POST OFFICE	’
DDT TH A VDD’Q All-American Div V	□ Restaurant
Satisfaction Guaranteed
Three Reasons Why You Will Like It.
1.	Pure Food
2.	Reasonable Price
3.	Quick Service
LaSALLE & HYDRAULIC ---Across the Bridge----- Employs Notre Dame Men.
356
Now 6ame Scholastic
Finest Suits and Overcoats Back to Pre-War Prices AT VERNON’S
$18-75 $24-75 $33.75 $44.75 VERNON’S “EVERY INCH A CLOTHING STORE”
.. .. —.
Kable’s Restaurants
104-106 N. Michigan St.	119 W. Jefferson Blvd.
■aa W. Washington Ave.	206 So. Michigan St.
Spodal attention to the fnrnfaMng of ctudanta rooms THB “GIFT SHOP** OP THB BKTTKR SORT
Students’ Note Books z Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at
The Herr & Herr Co.
CLAUER’S
I Jewelers/Silversmiths and Diamond
I	; Merchants 105 s. Michigan
GEORGE WYMAN & CO.
■	Come and See Us
The South Bend Home for Better Luggage.
N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trnnkr Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cages, etc.
<
I National Grocer Company
' WHOLESALE GROCERS
400-8 South St. Joseph Street. South Bend. Indiana
>. . ,Y ‘-LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"
■ ■ ■ ■■■■ ,■■■■■■ - .»
For juicy Steaks and Chops
try
“THE GRILL”—“MIKES”
125 W. Wash. St. " 105 E. Jeff. St.
H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props.
TRY
Men’rRow for High-Grade Shirts, Neckwear, Hosiery, etc. Men’s Row entrance:—Center Street
Noure &jme$chdasric
357
***
k
We “Say It With Values” in This Annual Half-Price Sale
Any Overcoat, and over 200 Suits, including the finest Kuppenheimer Clothes
SUITS AND OVERCOATS . . .	$20.00
$50.00	eoe nn
SUITS AND OVERCOATS .... O.W
SUITS AND OVERCOATS . .	. $30.00
FINEST OVERCOATS..............$37.50
Sweaters . Underwear Shirts... Neckwear < Hosiery ...
■■■ p 2F

LIVINGSTON’S
The House of Kuppenheimer Clothes
=7:
