
The Notre Dame Scholastic
519
COMMENT
«J«—   --------------------»J»
“Tingling is the test,” said
Babbalanja.	,
“Yoomy, did you tingle all over when that song was composing ?”
“All over, Babbalanja.”
;--------------------------*
We had occasion, some time ago, to rise rather early in the morning. Our mission took us outdoors. The night’s hard, black shell was cracking open, forced by a long knife of light; the knife was dripping with the morning dew; and the drops were streaming into the open channels of the air. It was the prelude to the symphony of the day; and in some ways we thought the prelude greater than that which it heralded.
But at the time we were conscious only of the cymbals and the viols and the brasses of the orchestra of dawn. We felt a “tingling”—but later the thought struck us that this tingling might have been intensified, and heightened, if we had indulged ourselves in what we have termed “rounded thinking.”
You read a book; it gives you certain feelings, produces in you a certain attitude, and occasions certain thoughts. But the inspiration of this book has been some one of the million and more objects that constitute the world outside ourselves. . And the mood that prompted the book, that drenched its message with the wine of style, may be very similar' to the mood of the prelude played by the symphony of the day. A case in point is Homer’s “Odyssey”—a book fairly soaked with the moisture of “the morning of the world.”
Why not, then, recall, as we see the sun blast darkness, the mood of the “Odyssey”—or likewise, for any other occasion a mood that fits— which may stem from any piece of poetry or prose that we have experienced in the round of our life.
With music it is the same. A symphony, a chorus, a dance—all may have as the very essence of their moods, their “message,” that which is the essence of the mood evoked in us at any given time by any given happening. If the music is recalled, if the spirit of the written words is summoned before the bar of attention, (all called from the quiet positions assigned to them by memory on the round wheel of life) then, certainly, we have a heightening of the present that the present, alone, could never give us.
Noir re Dame Scholaslr ic
Disce- Quasi- Semper-Victurus-Vive-Quasi-Cras-Moriluws
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall...... Paul J. Hallinan....
James J. Kearney
James Collins Howard Webster
Austin Boyle
William J. Magarral
Harry A. Sylvester,
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ..............The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus..Clubs
.. .Script Features
Editor
Editor

NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Harrington Chester M.
Henry B. Asuan
BUSINESS STAFF
J. Noon
George Allan Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Local Circulation
Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis.......Local Advertising
James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
Vol. LXIV.
FEBRUARY 7, 1930.
Manager Manager Manager Manager
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
No. 17
TABLE OF CONTENTS
“Scrip” Makes Second Appearance on Monday Music and Drama------------------------------------ Wayne King and His Orchestra to Play Foi- Prom—Ramon Smiths Coming Events-------------------------------------- Dittoe Named Sullivan Scholarship Winner----------- A Man You Know—Emil L. Telfel---------------------- A Man About the Campus----------------------------- Editorial ----------------------------------------- Songs Rising High—Paul J. Hallinan----------------- Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith------------------------ Notre Dame Defeats Marquette 20-18—John A. Kiener-- Trackmen Trounce Butler—Henry B. Asman-------------,—
Wabash Quintet Loses Fray—John A. Kiener______________ Interhall Items_______________________________________ Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester_______ On Down the Line______________________________________
520
521
522
522
523
525
526
527
528
530
531
531
531
533
534
544
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building:.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
520
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“Scrip” Makes Second Appearance on Monday
The second number of “Scrip” will be placed on sale next Monday, February 10. Louis C. Heitger, the editor, has made a special effort to have in this issue a collection of undergraduate writings that will appeal to the literary tastes of students and of outsiders. Because of the hearty welcome that was accorded the first number of Scrip, he has ordered a large number of copies for this issue, in order to meet the demands of the students.
Jay Walz, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1929 and is now working for the South Bend Nezus-Times, has submitted an essay, “The Modernity of Tchekov,” which will appear in this issue of Scrip. Walz wrote this essay for the Meehan Medal Contest last year, and in that contest it took second place. It deals with most of Tchekov’s works, giving particular attention to his shortstories.
Richard Sullivan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, steps out from behind the veil of his pen-name Abel Constance and offers for our entertainment a poem, “Finger Shaken at an Aesthete.” Students will remember his poem, “A Japanese Colour Print,” which appeared in the first number of Scrip. The other poems which will appear in the second number are: “Homage,” by Jack Mullen; “Complin,” a translation by John J. Bednar, C.S.C., from the Office of the Blessed Virgin; and two quatrains by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C.
Three short stories appear in this
SCRIBBLERS SHORT STORY CONTEST NOW ON
The Scribblers short story contest, which was announced earlier in the Scholastic, is now on and March 1 is set as the closing date for handing in manuscripts. President Cyril Mullen of the Scribblers has appointed the short story contest committee, consisting of Louis Brennan, chairman, Joseph McCabe and Emil Telfel.
The contest is open to every student of the University. Each contestant will be limited to two stories, neither to exceed 4,000 words. Manuscripts should be submitted to Louis Brennan, in 233 Sophomore Hall. The judges of the contest will be announced later in the Scholastic.
number of Scrip. Joseph A. McCabe, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, is the author of the short-story, “Breakfast.” This story is a realistic study of the life of milllaborers. It deals with the problem of a favorite son, a doting mother, and a despised husband. James D’Autremont, a seminarian, writes an amusing short-story, “Toothache,” which treats of the harrowing experiences of a child on his first visit to a dentist. Since every student has suffered similar experiences, he will enjoy reading about the trials of Reis, the child. V. T. Boisvert, also a seminarian, is the author of “Crazy,” the third short-story in this number of Scrip. Boisvert tells of a man who has been confined in an insane asylum and who has a penchant for reading the ubiquitous detective stories of our day. After his release from the asylum and his return to society he is charged with a certain crime by the police, but by means of his study of detectives’ methods he extricates himself from his difficulties and solves the mystery surrounding the crime. Appearances to the contrary, “Crazy” is not a detective story; rather, it is a powerful character-study.
From the several designs for frontispieces submitted by students and teachers the editors of Scrip have selected a pen and ink study by S. S. Sessler, an instructor in the School of Fine Arts, and Sessler’s drawing will be the frontispiece of the second number of Scrip.
PEP MEETING TO-NIGHT
To-night at 6:30, the first pep meeting of the year will be held in the Gym in preparation for the game with Pitt to-morrow night. Pitt has one of the strongest cage teams in the country to-day, and the game tomorrow night promises to be the hardest fought contest of the year. The basketball team needs the support of the student body just as much as did the football team, and to-night will be an opportunity to show the team that it is receiving that support.
The torchlight parade headed by the band, will begin at the Dining Halls and end at the Gym.
ALABAMIANS TO PLAY FOR LAW CLUB FORMAL
Marlow Hardy and his Alabamians, will furnish the music for the fourth annual Law Club Formal, which will be held in the Palais Royale, on the evening of February 2nd. The announcement of the signing of Hardy and his men, was made by Robert Eggeman, president of the Law Club.
The Alabamians are not unknown to local dancers, as they fulfilled an engagement at tbe Palais Royale on December 22, last. The crooning saxaphones, the blaring trumpets and the steady beat of the banjoes and drums exemplify the way jazz and blues songs are played by the Alabamians—and played as only southern Negroes can play them. Hardy himself, is well known as a soloist on a number of instruments. Another feature of the band is the Magpie Trio, three colored singers, who have been featured by the Columbia Recording Company, as well as over many radio stations. The entire orchestra recently recorded a new number for Columbia which is very popular.
The ticket sales for the Ball have been very brisk to date, according to Eggeman, who announced that anyone who wishes to attend but has not yet secured a ticket, should see some member of the Law Club as soon as possible. There will be but a limited number of tickets available. Any student in the University is eligible to attend.
With the signing of the' orchestra, all major plans for the Ball have been completed. The programs are being prepared by the Elliott Company, of Philadelphia, and will be distributed on the campus shortly before the dance. The sub poenas, the traditional type of invitations, will be available early next week. These may be secured from members of the Law Club.
->■
PROF. HOYER TO SPEAK AT BANQUET
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the University’s Boy Guidance Department, has been invited to speak next Tuesday, February 11, in La' Porte. The occasion is the Anniversary Week Banquet and Court of Honor which is sponsored by the City’s Boy Scout organization.. Scouts and their parents, and friends of the Boy Scout movement will be present. Professor Hoyer is active locally in the Boy Scout organization and is a member of its executive committee.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
521
VAUDEVILLE CONTRACT
OFFERED “JUGGLERS”
Temporarily inactive on account of examinations, the popular campus “Jugglers” have again come into the limelight. The demand for their services has become so great that it has been necessary to reject several attractive offers, among which was a contract with the Radio-Keith-Orpheum Circuit for a vaudeville tour. This, however, could not be ful-- filled, for its acceptance would have interfered with studies.
The following is a partial list of coming engagements: Feb. 5„th, Dance for St. Matthew’s Parish Choir at the K. of C. Hall; Feb. 12th, 6:00 p. m. Philadelphia Club banquet; St. Hedwige Parish, Feb. 15th; Progress Club, Valentine dance; March 1, Junior Class dinner dance.
Jack Folks and the Juggler trio played at the Villagers banquet last Monday night, at the LaSalle. ~
COMMERCE FORUM HOLDS
. MEETING
The last meeting of the Commerce Forum was held on January 22nd in the Law Building.
Mr. Thomas Flatley, of the College of Commerce, department of finance and accounts, spoke on “Probabilities - of the future in view of present conditions.” In his talk Mr. Flatley stressed the business status of such large interests as the steel and petroleum industries, with regard to the effect on future economic conditions.
Those present were particularly impressed by Mr. Flatley’s accounts of his experiences in the business world before he came to Notre Dame.
NOTICE!
The Commerce Forum announces the opening of applications for membership for the second semester. All members of the Commerce School who have completed one semester at the University and have an average of eighty percent are eligible.
Freshmen, take particular note of this. This is also the last opportunity for seniors to apply.
Address applications or come in person to 214 Walsh Hall.
Debating Team to Make Bow at St. Mary’s
Following several weeks of preparation and practice, the Varsity debating teams, under the guidance of Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., will make their initial appearance next Monday afternoon before the students of St. Mary’s College, discussing the question, “Resolved: That the nations of the world should adopt a policy of complete disarmament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police purposes.” The Affirmative side will be upheld by Stanton, O’Malley, and Keegan, while the Negative side will be debated by Walsh, Kirby, and Keefe. The alternates for these teams are Hanna, Allan, Phelan, Connor, Baer, and Mc-Greal.
Appreciative Audience
From the opening numbers, “Emit-tae Spiritu Tuum,” “Panis Angelicus” and “Sa Chere Domini” to the grand finale, a fugue’ by Rhineberg, the Paulist Choir’ treated an appreciative audience to a veritable feast of song last Saturday night. The repertoire of the choir seemed unlimited in variety and in excellence. Among the various songs were “Deep River,”
MUSIC AND DRAMA
The Chicago Civic Opera Company has thrown the “props” into its many trunks and closed its first season in the new house. The closing was certainly not so brilliant as the opening, but what would you? With all the bombings and what not last week-end it is surprising that the cast of Don Pasquale bothered to finish. And Carmen, the final subscription opera of the season, left the Friday night Kenoshans in a bad mood.
Jane Cowl in “Jenny” is going to replace “June Moon” at the Selwyn in Chicago in a week or two. Jane (for us) is to “Jenny” what Edith Van Cleve is to the Chicago cast of “June Moon.” To me the difference between Ring Lardner’s and George Kaufman’s humour was only too obvious and Miss Van Cleve was necessary to keep me and my shadow from deserting Ring and George in favor of Finchley’s.
The debate of Monday will be practice work in order that the Varsity men may be competent to discuss the same question on February 28 with the University of Detroit. Notre Dame has, in recent years, produced many remarkable debating teams, and the capabilities of the men on this year’s squad- seem to indicate success. The question of disarmament is one of paramount importance and significance just now, and is a common subject for controversy throughout the country. The majority of men on the squad have had previous experience, and this experience, combined with the work of the present season, should adequately fit them to argue the problem with ease and success.
Greets Paulist Choir
Handel’s “Messiah,” Pistalaki’s “Gladsome Light,” and some other Russian numbers. The Russian numbers were sung with fitting majesty. The singing of solos by Walter Turner, John Rogers, and Mr. Dunford was the best part of the program. Rogers, singing “Deep River,” was so heartily applauded that he sang an encore, “The Land of the Sky-Blue Waters” by Cadman.
The German Grand Opera Company seems to be setting the Chicago I-Will-Praise-Music critics on their ears. Tristan und Isolde and Die Walkuere have the most interesting music. The performance of these operas is past, so don’t bother trying to get seats.
Incidentally there are a flock of new records coming up. Wait for good recordings of “Underneath a Texas Moon” and “Swingin’ on the Garden Gate.” If you can’t wait that long, run up to Chicago and hear Lix Riley play them at the Drake. Leo Reisman has a swell one for Victor called “You’ve Got That Thing” and “You Do Something to Me.” Guy Lombardo, on Columbia, plays “Have a Little Faith in Me” so well that we wish he was somewhere around to pay us for this free advertising! .
522
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, Feb. 7—First Friday Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Main Building, 7:00 p. m. —Movies, “Speedway,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 8 — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Track-Relay team to New York.—Interhall Basketball, 9:30 a. m. to 4:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 9—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 o’clock.—High Mass at 9:00 a. m. —Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Feb. 10—Dome Pictures, Gymnasium, 12:30, 12:45.—Interhall Basketball Practice, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Feb. 11—Dome Club Pictures, Gymnasium, 12:30, 12:45.— Scribblers Meeting, “Rec” Room, Howard Hall, 7:45 p. m.— Wranglers Meeting, Public Speaking Room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.— Interhall Basketball Practice, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 12—Dome Club Pictures, Gymnasium, 12:30, 12:45. —Interhall Basketball, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, Feb. 13—Dome Pictures, Gymnasium, 12:30, 12:45.— Spectators Club Meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.— Detroit Club Meeting, Law Building, 6:45 p. m.—Interhall Basketball, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.
FRIDAY, Feb. 14—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler at Butler.—Movies, “Two Arabian Knights,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.— Scholastic Editorial Staff Meeting, Publications Offices, 7:00 p. m.
JUNIOR PROM TO BE PUT IN LIMELIGHT
During the next two weeks it is the intention of the Publicity Committee of the Prom of 1930 to spring a few surprises on the Junior Class. They have gone so far in their attempt at “advance notice” that little has been left undone. Signs, handbills, photos, cards, and more signs have appeared about the campus this week. Next week ticket sales will start in earnest, and bulletins will greet the junior everywhere, reminding him that he may. get his bid at any of a dozen places.
Wayne King and His Orchestra to Play for Prom
Wayne King and his Victor Recording Orchestra, direct from the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, have been selected by the music committee of the Prom of 1930 to furnish the music for that affair. This announce- -ment was made early this week by Edward B. Ryan, chairman of the committee.
Wayne King
Wayne King’s is one of the best known orchestras in the Middle West. Through his radio broadcasts and his ballroom dance numbers, his popularity has become general. His music is the ideal style for formal class dances—slow and dreamy to the man who likes to dance that way; brisk, snappy and appealing to the other type. Mr. King has promised the juniors who attend the Prom a specially prepared program of the most popular songs on the market today.
Radio listeners know him well, for every night at 10:40 he comes on the air ovei- KYW in Chicago. Sundays he entertains from 4:30 to 5:00 p. m.
“My Prom Sweetheart,” the song written by John Beljon and Zeno Staudt, and dedicated to the Prom of 1930, will be introduced by Mr. King as a feature of the dance. His arrangement of the song will be presented as well in his radio programs. The song promises to be one of the most popular ever dedicated to a prom here. Copies will appear on the campus as soon as they are released from the publishers.
Wayne King and His Aragon Orchestra recently made a Victor record of “Sally.” The record features Tony Kopecky, soloist of the Notre Dame Glee Club last year.
The orchestra contains thirteen musicians, the majority of whom are singers of ability, allowing the presentation of numerous novelty num
bers. They have played three years under the direction of Mr. King, and are so popular at present that the management of the Aragon and Trianon ballrooms have secured their contract for another three years.
Wayne King, himself a tall, goodlooking, likeable fellow, possessing an ability to produce inimitable music on both the clarinet and the saxophone, has been offered the opportunity to make a “talkie,” and if screen tests prove successful he will soon go to Hollywood. The Publicity Department of the Music Corporation of America has him on their records as being a quiet fellow, which may, or may not, have a bearing on his ability as a musician. Sufficient to say that he does have a likeable personality.
The Junior Class is asked to keep a close watch for all Prom Bulletins which will appear about the campus until a day or so before the dance. The ticket sale will officially close one week before the dance. All announcements of importance will appear on these bulletins.
Tickets will be on sale during the next two weeks. All seniors who received bids some time ago are requested to buy their tickets from Ed. Madden in Morrissey Hall before Monday, February 10.
Favors and programs will be distributed the week preceding the dance. The exact date and place for securing them will be announced later.
The Committee on Favors reports unusual success in their choice this year. They do not wish at this time, however, to give out information as to what the favors will be.
The Patrons Committee has prepared a list of patrons and patronesses for the dance, but the list is not ready for publication.
DOME PHOTOGRAPHER BACK SOON
With the photographs of all the seniors and Activity men taken, work on the various group pictures for the Dome will begin shortly. Editor-in-chief Bob Pendergast reports that the photographers will be on the campus soon to take such pictures as club groups, and class gatherings.
Many new features and the development of many of the old ones will be used in this year’s volume. The size will be somewhat the same as that of last year.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
523
i-
Dittoe Named Sullivan Scholarship Winner
Frank Raymond Dittoe has been announced as the winnei* of the Roger C. Sullivan scholarship for the junior showing the greatest scholastic improvement during the year. He lives in Walsh Hall, is in his third year in
Frank R. Dittoe
SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT
HAS SECOND LECTURE
Speaking under the auspices of the Department of Sociology, Knowles B. Smith, E. M., Ph. D., professor and head of the Department of Mining Engineering at the University, lectured Wednesday night on “Our Geological Background.” Dr. Smith, who is one of the foremost geologists and petrologists in this part of the country, spoke chiefly on the cosmic origin of the earth, the glacial age, and the possibility of another glacier era. “Are we in a glacial age? I can’t say. From one standpoint we are, judgingifrom the ice pack in Greenland which is, geologically speaking, rapidly moving. However, since it only moves about two feet every year it would take a considerable period of time to come down. A drop in the mean annual temperature of even 15° would immediately precipitate another glacial era.”
Doctor Smith outlined the several branches of geology, the age of the earth, its erosion, the history of the earth and also of the interior heat The lecture, which was the second sponsored by the Sociology Department, was well attended.
the College of Arts and Letters, and is taking the pre-legal course. Dittoe is from Somerset, Ohio, where he attended Somerset High School. He was president of his class in his senioi’ year. During his freshman year here at Notre Dame he earned his numerals through his work as a manager. He is working his way through college, and is employed as night manager of the U-Drive-It Company in South Bend.
The winning of the Sullivan award came as a complete surprise to Dittoe, since it had been previously announced, through a clerical error, that Robert J. Rohrbach had been the winner’ in the junior class. Rohrbach, however, is a sophomore and he received the prize offered to the second year men. Dittoe learned of his unexpected good fortune under peculiar circumstances. He had gone to the University business offices to arrange a bill of $245. When his identity became known he was handed a check for five dollars and told that his account had been settled through his winning of the Sullivan scholarship, which is worth $250.
New Library Books
The following books have been added to the University Library during the past few weeks:
“The Judgement of Literature” by Henry Wells.
“The American Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy,” Samuel F. Bemis.
“The Old Humanities and the New Science,” Sir William Osler.
“Sherman-Soldier, Realist, American,” B. Liddell Hart.
“Chicago—The History of Its Reputation,” Henry J. Smith and Lloyd Lewis.
“The Emergence of Modern America,” Allan Nevins.
“Early Candlelight,” Maud H.
Lovelace.
“The Use of Philosophy,” John H. Muirhead.
“The Fine Art of Reading,” Robert E. Rogers.
“King Spider—Some Aspects of Louis XI of France,” D. Wyndham Lewis.
“An Appreciation of Robert South-well,” Sister Rose Morton.
“The South American Handbook.”
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
Dr. C. E. Savery, prominent South Bend eye, ear, nose and throat specialist, was the principal speaker • honoring the Notre Dame Academy of Science on the occasion of their second open meeting of the year. The meeting was held Monday evening, February 3rd, at 8:00 p. m. in the South Room of the Library.
Dr. Savery is a graduate of the Medical School of the University of Indiana. He spent a year in postgraduate work at Vienna.
The Doctor chose as a topic, “The Eye.” As an introduction he gave a brief historical sketch, showing that the treatment of eye troubles is an old practice. The audience was asked to note the distinction between an oculist and an optometrist. An optometrist merely fits glasses', whereas an oculist is one who is skilled in the treatment of eye diseases.
After discussing the anatomy of the eye in detail, he mentioned some of the common physiological disorders and diseases These were followed by some hygienic method of prevention. The Doctor indicated that eye examinations are becoming very valuable to physicians as a means of diagnosing body ailments, emphasizing that a “good eye man” is a good physician.
PROMINENT VISITOR ON CAMPUS
Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, of world-wide prominence in the activities of business women's clubs, visited Notre Dame on January 24, and was shown about the campus as a guest of the Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Miss Phillips made her visit following her lecture of the day previous at the Robertson Tea Room before a large and representative audience of educators, and business and professional men and women.
Miss Phillips is an attorney in New York City, holding an LL. D. degree from the University of Kentucky and the degree of LL. M. from New York University. She is widely known for her organization work among business women. She has twice been abroad and visited thirteen European coun-. tries as chairman of the International Relations Committee of the National Federation of Business and ' Professional Women’s Clubs.
524
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROM WEEK FEATURES FORMAL DINNER
DANCE
Plans for the formal dinner dance, to be held March 1 for Juniors and their Prom guests, are rapidly nearing completion. This will be the first time in the history of Notre Dame Proms that a dinner dance has been held, and indications are that it will be a very successful affair. It will be held at the Oliver Hotel from 7:00 until 11:30.
Vernon J. Knox, Junior Class president, has announced that it will be necessary to limit the attendance to two hundred couples, as it will be absolutely impossible to accommodate more than that number.
The price of tickets will be five dollars per couple ,and may be obtained on or after February 12. Tickets may be purchased by any Junior until two hundred reservations are made. Only those who have obtained their Prom tickets may purchase a dinner dance ticket. No tickets will be sold after February 20.
Tickets will be on sale February 12, and may be obtained from any of the following men: William C. Brown, 439 Morrissey Hall; Jack Saunders, Walsh Hall; Ray Mannix, Lyons Hall; Jack Keefe, Corby Hall; Edward Mehren, Morrissey Hall; Dick Baker, Corby Hall; Phil Angsten, Badin Hall; Charlie Cushwa, Morrissey Hall.
K. OF C. COMPLETE INITIATION PLANS
Final plans for the exemplification of the second and third degrees of the Knights of Columbus were discussed by the members of the order at a special meeting in the council chambers in Walsh Hall Monday night. Grand Knight Jack Ch evigny read the names of all the men who have applied for admission at this time.
Martin Travers, chairman of the banquet committee, reported that a banquet will be held in the Oliver Hotel immediately following the exemplification of the third degree’, probably about 6 o’clock.
The Notre Dame Jugglers will play during the banquet, Clarence “Pat” -■ Manion will be toastmaster, while Tim Galvin and other noted speakers will also be on the program.
Two entertainers from the National Broadcasting Company, Nick Balemo and Bill • Wallman, entertained the council with several musical numbers, and Jack Cannon- gave a short humorous talk. •
LARGE GROUP TO TAKE EUROPEAN TOUR
One of the largest group movements in the history of trans-Atlantic tourist travel, under the direction of one organization, will leave the United States and Canada this summer on vessels of the Cunard Line for European tours, nearly all of which will feature the world famous religious spectacle of the Passion Play at Oberammergau.
The tours in question have been arranged by the Catholic Students Travel League, 551 Fifth Avenue, New York, a recently formed organization which attends to the travel requirements of Catholics and others residing in the United States and Canada. Leading church dignitaries and educators are endorsers of the League, which is sponsored by numerous college heads. The Reverend W. Coleman Nevils, S. J., president of Georgetown University, is chairman of the executive council. His Emience William Cardinal O’Connell, Archbishop of Boston, is among the hundreds of endorsers, as are eleven Catholic bishops.
Sixty-three tours for 1930 have been arranged by the League, which recently designated the Cunard Line as the official trans-Atlantic company in which its tour members will travel to and from Europe. Tourist third cabin accommoadtions will be used in the main, and the travelers are assured of the utmost in comfoi*t and service on such well-known vessels as the Berengaria and Aquitania, among others.
Tours arranged by the League will be personally conducted. Groups are limited in number, so that proper attention may be given to the needs of each member of the party.
Gleanings
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT—APRIL 21
April 21 will be the date of the seventh annual Universal Notre Dame night sponsored by the alumni throughout the United States. One hundred meetings are planned for various cities throughout the world. Places of meeting will extend from South Bend to Paris.
The nature of the programs being planned include dinner parties, smokers, dances and stag parties. Efforts are also being made to have a program broadcast over a coast-to-coast chain radio.
Ted Twomey, regular tackle on the ” 1929 National Champions, will enter the lumber business in company with his father in his home town, Duluth, y Minn. Ted was graduated from the University last week.
❖ * * .
•T
James Deery, ’12, was appointed City Attorney of the city of Indianapolis. Mr. Deery is a very active member of the alumni and prominent in the civic affairs of Indianapolis.
*
Charles “Chile” Walsh, end of the 1927 football team, was appointed head coach of football at Saint Louis University, succeeding Hartley ‘Hunk’ Anderson, who will act as assistant coach of Notre Dame next year.
3:	$	$
Joe Sullivan, captain of the baseball team in 1928 and freshman coach last year, successfully passed the Bar -examinations of Michigan and Illinois. He is now in a LaSalle Street office in Chicago.
John F. Cushing, ’06, of Chicago, is ? president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, which recently completed the task of straightening the Chicago river. This is regarded as one of the country’s outstanding marine engineering accomplishments.
John “Butch” Niemic and John “Bull” Poliskey two prominent members of the 1927 football team, were visitors on the campus Tuesday. Niemic is engaged in business in Ashland, Ky., and Poliskey in Hammond, Ind.
* * *
During a recent survey of the new 1 Law Directory it was noted that there are more than forty graduates of the University practicing law in South Bend and some thirty-five more in the ? Saint Joseph Valley. Seems as though the barristers want to remain close to their alma mater.
* * *
Edward J. Meehan, ’20, national advertising manager of the South Bend Tribune, has recently taken over the instruction of the class in newspaper management, in the department , of Journalism of the University.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
525
SENIORS TO PRESENT FLAG ON WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY; HASLEY TO READ ODE
In keeping with a time honored tradition, the annual presentation of the flag will take place February 22nd in Washington Hall. The Seniors wearing their caps and gowns, will be grouped according to their respective colleges, the various groups being distinguished by the color of the new tassel on the cap as follows: Law-purple; Science-golden; Arts and Letters-white; Commerce-drab; Engineering-Orange.
The procession will be from the Main Building to Washington Hall where the exercises will begin at 9:00 a. m.
Raymond Reardon, Senior Class president, will present the flag, which will be received by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who will officiate in the absence of the president.
Louis Hasley, a student in the College of Letters, has been appointed by Professor Charles Phillips to write and deliver the ode, after which there will be a presentation of excerpts from Washington’s Farewell Address, by Walter Stanton.
From Washington Hall, the class will proceed to the flag raising exercises, which will take place South of the Law Building.
All seniors are required to be present at the Washington Day ceremonies, and will receive notice in the near future as to where they will meet their respective Deans.
Patrick McLaughlin is chairman of the committee arranging the program. He will be assisted by: Edward McClennan, William Cleary, James Costello, Walter Langford, and Edward Yorke.
VILLAGERS HEAR VARSITY DEBATING COACH
The Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., instructor in the department of Economics, and coach of the varsity debating team, was the-principal speaker at a February dinner meeting of the Villagers Club held Monday evening in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle.
Father Boland in his talk briefly outlined the debating schedule of the debating teams this year, and also told of the new methods of education being used in various colleges.
The meeting also marked the final appearance of John R. Marcus, president of the club, who was graduated from the University at the semester. He was succeeded by Jack Shively, vice-president of the club. Routine business and returns of the postExam dance were given. Music during the evening was furnished by Jack Foulkes and his Madcap trio.
A Man You Know
❖
Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary defines history “as a systematic written account of events, especially of those - affecting a nation, usually connected with a philosophical explanation of
Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C.
their causes.” Now that definition is a very good one, but it does not go fax' enough. It does not explain that history is also a record of what people have thought, and felt, and done in the past; nor does it explain that it is also a record of what they are thinking and feeling and doing in the present—for history keeps pace with time. It is not a rigid, cut-and-dried study, but a living, growing study, dealing with events from life that re
occur time and time again. The historian or the teacher of history should realize that his subject is alive, or else, paradoxically enough, it will be as dead as the Pharoahs—but not as interesting! The Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., Head of the Department of History at the University, is a teacher who realizes that history is a vital subject, hence his classes have an interest which is too often lacking from history courses.
Father Ryan was born in Chicago. He attended the public schools of that city and received his high school education at Notre Dame. In 1902 he entered the University, graduating in 1906 with the degree of Litt. B. For the next six years he was at Catholic University in Washington, where he studied for* the priesthood and did post-graduate work in American and Church History. He received the degree of S. T. L. from the Washington institution in 1911. In 1909 he was ordained in Sacred Heart Church. Notre Dame conferred the degree of Ph. D. upon him in 1925 for his work in Church History.
His first assignment sent Father Ryan to Holy Cross College, Catholic University, where he taught Church History for three years. For the next three years, from 1913 to 1916, he was at Notre Dame, teaching European History and American History. In 1917 he was sent to St. Edward’s University in Texas, and the following year’ to Columbia University in Portland, Oregon. He taught history
and did hall prefecting at both universities.
After his stay at Columbia University, Father Ryan did work that was far different from teaching—and somewhat more strenuous. During the years between 1919 and 1922 he did mission work in Utah. His work was done mostly in the mining camps; but he also spent some time in Salt Lake City. He can tell some very interesting stories about his experiences among the miners of the Mormon state.
Notre Dame welcomed Father Ryan back to its History Department in 1922. In 1923 he was appointed head of the department. He became rector of Lyons Hall in the fall of 1926. Before that he had been a prefect in Sorin, Badin, and Walsh Halls.
While a student here at the University, Father Ryan was one of the editors of the Scholastic. He also played football and baseball. Unlike some ex-athletes, he believes in keeping physically fit, and does so very efficiently by playing handball and taking long walks.
Father Ryan’s hobby is history— especially church history.
“I like to have people study history,” he said. “I regard it as the most important study in the world. If you know your church’s history, with its magnificent record of achievement, then you know your religion— and if you know that—then it certainly follows that you cannot lose your faith.”
526
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
<•----------------------&
We had originally planned to use Bob Eggeman as the feature attraction in our column of next week’s issue. But circumstances beyond our control—to wit: (legal phrases will be employed throughout this article to further the creation of a legal atmosphere)—yes, yes,—to wit, the imme-
Robert F. Eggeman
diate lack of a well known personality for this week has caused us to turn time ahead and call on the much “called-on” Mr. Eggeman.
Bob. is, as you probably know, the president of the Notre Dame Law Club. That is what has provoked the attempt at producing a “legal atmosphere.” Sorin Hall is his local residence at present. He hopes to remain there until June—and no later. His -room is the one you usually find filled with smoke, embryonic lawyers, and the oratory which usually is forthcoming when lawyers gather. That, at least, is the way we found it upon our entrance in search of column material. And the youthful barristers collected there seemed so much at home that we presumed they occupy the room enough to justify their helping' Bob out with the rent.
John Nelson, Bill Dore, Larry O’Connor, and Arch Hurley are a few of Bob’s admirers who helped to make
NOTICE!
Junior Class meeting Monday, February 10, at 12:30 noon, in the North Basement Library.
---------------------------4.
up the convocation. Since Bob is a modest, reticent chap who hates to talk about his own accomplishments, we sincerely appreciated the wealth of information that these gentlemen contributed to our investigation. As for Bob’s appreciation—you may ask him about it.
All the facts are too numerous to mention, so we shall enumerate only the good ones—that is, we mean the best ones. Bob got off to a good start in his freshman year by performing on the gridiron with the Howard Hall eleven. He was good enough in his football role to make the boys forget to “razz” him about his being from Ft. Wayne, which city, by the way, still claims him as its native son. He has been an active member of the Fort Wayne Club during his four years at the University, and is now president of the organization.
Last year Robert guided the business destinies of the Notre Dame Latoyer. The success of the Lawyers’ Ball of 1929 might be attributed somewhat to his work on the committee. The Blue Circle has also profited through his membership in that august body. Just to prove his versatility, Bob entered the Lawyers’ Oratorical Contest last year—a contest sponsored by William A. Mcln-erny, a prominent South Bend attorney—and walked off with third prize.
Bob’s hobby is one which has provided indoor sport for most Americans: politics. He confesses a firm allegiance to that good old Democratic Party, and swears by its late champion, Alfred E. Smith. Al’s stand against the 18th Amendment is the one which Bob has found the most admirable.
To sum up the personal characteristics of the subject of this column, according to a tabulation we have made with the assistance of his aforementioned friends: he is modest, accomplished, quietly ambitious, generous with his cigarettes (sure—I’ll introduce you), and kind to children and Arch Hurley. Also, he is given to putting “Oonie” Donovan on the proverbial “pan” for the latter’s work in the Fort Wayne courts last summer . Bob suggested that there “must have been a lot of niggers in the wood pile” during “Oonie’s” term of service as a defaulter representative in the courts. This at first sounded complex enough to be bound in legal terminology, but Bob explained eventually, amidst the laughter of the group. We soon joined them. If you don’t understand, ask Bob—or else, ask “Oonie.”
GLEE CLUB RECEIVES HIGH PRAISE
Since its recent radio presentation over a national broadcasting chain, the University Glee Club has received a great deal of commendation for its fine program. The Chicago papers especially praised the Club and its director, Joseph Casasanta, and classed the organization among the best in the country.
Immediately after the concert, numerous offers were made for appearances in a number of large cities. However, none of these will be accepted. The Club will spend the winter in preparation for the annual concert given here at the University. Upwards of fifty members have reported for practice, from which group Mr. Casasanta will select his concert organization.
NOTICE TO K. OF C.
CANDIDATES
All men who have signed up for the Knights of Columbus and have not yet taken their physical examination are requested to do so Saturday, February 8th, without fail. The exemplification of all degrees will take place Sunday, February 9th. The first degree will be held Sunday morning at 10 o’clock, at the South Bend Council Chambers. The remaining degrees will start at 1 o’clock of the same day and at the same place. Every candidate must be present. It is also urged that all the Knights who possibly can attend do so.
A.I.E.E. HEAR C. C. ADAMS OF CHICAGO
The campus branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meting of the new term last Monday evening in Chemistry Hall.
Two talks, one dealing with automobile generator, and the other covering carbon crystallization in steel, were presented by students The main talk of the evening was given by Mr. C. C. Adams, manager of the Chicago office of the General Electric Company. Mr. Adams spoke on the cadet and student training courses offered by the company. Every year several of the best men are chosen from each-of the large colleges of the country, to take these courses, and it was for the purpose of making such selection that Mr. Adams visited the campus last Monday...
The Notre Dame Scholastic
527
WHAT, THEN, IT CULTURE?
’	Some time ago a metropolitan daily newspaper editorially described a dinner party, and quiet
evening at home, in the lives of two young married couples, all college graduates.
The dinner, an excellent one, provoked talk of golf scores, bridge scores, stocks and bonds, and the latest fashions from Paris.
Then, dinner over, a table at bridge in the next room; the conversation, necessarily, more or less connected with the course of the game; sometime between ten-thirty and twelve the party breaks up; and the evening is over.
“And this,” ran the editorial comment, “is the way in which many ‘cultured’ college graduates spend the leisure that they earn as a result of their work. Is it culture?”
It is rather difficult to page through a magazine, today, without coming upon an accusing finger indicting you with lack of culture and, of course, (the point of the “ad”) consequent lack of financial
*	success. It always develops (upon reading) that the man behind the finger is in possession of a book
_	that is nothing short of miraculous—in that it is just the thing that you have been lacking—a short
cut to culture.
”	Discussion and writing among undergraduates in colleges, reveals, at times, a serious- effort to
ascertain what culture is. But the subject discussed is as likely to be classed among the necessities for a financial success as it is to find itself ranked with proficiency in etiquette and discernment in '■ evening dress, as a mark of the sophisticated man. Always it seems to exist either as an external - embellishment or as a factor calculated to bring material success.
But, it seems to us, all these conceptions are wide of the mark. What then, is culture?
To attempt to answer this question completely, would require several volumes; so we shall confine ourselves to some fragmentary remarks, which, if they possess any value whatsoever, will have that value in their suggestiveness, rather than in their absoluteness..
Culture, then, as we see it, is the unceasing development, in the inner self of the individual, of a 5 heightened and intensified consciousness of the world and the life about him. The intelligence selects from the great mass of things that daily demand attention, those things which have in them what seems to be of permanent value. Then it is the business of culture to draw from these newly discovered objects, the essence of their values, and invest the continued existence of the individual with an ever increasing consciousness of life, and a power of intensification of every moment in that life.
„	The question naturally arises: what things is it wise for the intelligence to select for presentation
I to culture?
I	Flowers of light rise all over the garden through which the Milky Way is but a path; in a corner
L-- of that garden a bush flames with beauty and quivers with life; it is our world; and the first task of I	the intelligence, recognizing the divine creation of that bush, is to show to the mind the flames of
I	beauty with which nature has fired it; culture then sees every tree and every rose, every road and
every stream as more than they are, more than their face values (beautiful as they are) would show
I forth; it sees wooded and watered flames, and thus heightens and intensifies the commonplace fact of I seeing a tree or a stream.	'
f'	Music with its rising and falling of fires of sound; poetry, with its plangent lines of silver; prose
I	with its tapestries of velvet and scarfs of silk; drama with its trapped life; painting with its canvases
I	that are golden nets enmeshing beauty; sculpture with its frozen bars of the melody of life; all these
contribute to heightened consciousness and intensification of the passing moment, by the integration
I of what they have to say into what the individual thinks and says about life.
I	But culture, the integrator, is always a personal, inner possession; it is never achieved, even by a
L	short cut, in that rather than being something to be got or won or put on, it is a slow, gradual pro-
I-	cess of attachment, to those things presented by the intellect, of values that both intensify the moment
E., and broaden the hour.
II	College is one of the few ideal places in which the secret of culture may be learned; exchange of
H views between those who, knowing the secret, have something in common, is one of the high pleasures of life; golf scores and bridge scores, while amusing, do little more, after all, than pass the time;
I ' but when two or more persons who know something of the secret (which, once known, is no secret, -I	but an obvious truth!) find themselves together, their pleasure it is to seize passing time and squeeze
R	from it every drop of its potable treasure.	—M. H. L.
Page 528—The Notre Dame Scholastic
L_..
Professor Joseph Casasanta “The March is On!”
OTRE DAME was rj j without a battle-song.
It was 1907 or 1908, and the boys realized that it was rather childish to bellow such things as—
“When Purdue comes to town, They are sure to be done brown. We’ll run up an awful score. Purdue 0, Notre Dame 24.”
—even when “Reuben Comes to Town” was followed (at a distance) as the tune. In the 80’s and 90’s such things were expected of a small college. If the cheer-leaders wanted to “aggie-goax, get the axe, get the axe,” nobody cared. Brownson half-backs meant more than the bimetallic standard. But that was in the 89’s and 90’s.
An evolution was taking place here on the campus in the
early years of Father Cavanaugh’s presidency. Father Michael Shea, ’05, and John F. Shea, ’06, felt it, and they contributed what they thought was a little, but what everyone else has come to know as a magnificent gift. Gentlemen—“The Victory March!”
Everyone seems to know it. Many a high school senior heard its triumphant “Onward to Victory!” and then began thinking Notre Dame. It was the first music I heard in South Bend on a September afternoon in 1928, as Block and Kuhl’s electric Victrola boomed for hours with “send a volley cheer on high,” and confident sophomores explained to me that that was the Notre Dame “Victory March.” Bands march to it, swaying jazz groups play it in their college medleys; the Glee Club sings it masterfully, and almost every American (well, we’ll say every college- or music-minded American) is conscious of a song that begins “Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame” and ends with a gusty “rah! rah! rah!” Who wrote it? Two musical Irishmen, the brothers Shea. Father Michael Shea in his letter, points out that it was “merely to give an incentive” to later song-writers, and this it has done. But the “Victory March” has only added to its prestige as “Hike, Notre Dame” and “Down the Line” were added to our musical stock.
Undergraduate Manual.
Pat McDonough, Will Wimberg, and Father Gene Burke, wrote— at the time of the Sheas — stirring songs for the old school. A Brownson smoker audience two years ago heard Father Burke sing and play several of his original compositions. Yet until 1908 the parodies persisted, especially on the field, and on the march—
Let music fill thy hallowed halls,
And echo ring thy name,
We’ll sing a song of Jubilee,
For dear old Notre Dame!
—sung to the strains of “Auld Lang Syne.”
Father Shea left with an M. A. in 1905, and returned as professor of Latin and Greek. His brothei-John—“a member of the michief twins; at an early age he showed his humorous nature by shoving his nurse downstairs. He formed a bucket brigade for the
Before 1908, there had been scores of musicians at Notre Dame, some of whose names are inscribed in Washington Hall: Girac and Father Lilly; old Brother Basil, the “Dead Musician” of the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell’s tribute—
“God played on him, as he upon the keys, Moving his soul to mightiest melodies.”
—and Professor Peterson, who directed the orchestra in many concerts and dance programs. There was Frank Schwab and his “Song of Notre Dame,” which was first written as a poem for the Scholastic, later placed with a melody, and is now sung each Washington’s Birthday at the presentation of the Flag. It has striking lyrics, but the music is not adapted to mass-singing, and orchestra scores, and that is why Professor Casasanta sits down each Washington’s Birthday, and plays the Notre Dame “Song” on the piano . No musical score is available. The original poem ran—
Although thou art not sere with age, I honor* thee, I honor thee;
The first stanza of the “Song” was added later—
Oh Notre Dame, thou beauteous place Where nature teems, where nature teems,
—and the rest is familiar, at least to readers of the Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Band at Chicago . . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 529
purpose of keeping people in or out of Sorin. At one time or another he took almost every course in the University’s curriculum” (reference, Dome, 1906) —wrote limericks and became class-president that year. The inspiration and the writing of the famous “March” is part of Father Shea’s letter but we wouldn’t cut these points out, so here is the entire body of the letter:	/
.... My musical memories of Notre Dame begin with Brother Basil who
added to superb musi-lous Name ....	cianship, the art, much
rarer, of a good religious, reticent, seclud-i. It came my way to hear, more than most of the :udents of my time, his afternoon reveries at the pipe rgan which are so charmingly enshrined in the “Dead lusician” of your president.
I remember the first singing of Frank Schwab’s Notre Dame Song” in 1902; the musical setting was ve- work of Professor Roach, then in charge of the
Reverend Michael Shea “Onward to Victory!”
band and orchestra. The influence of Pat McDonough, one of Notre Dame’s choicest and rarest types, led to many attempts at song-writing, and his own spontaneous tribute to “The Captain of the Team,” was written a few minutes before its delivery in the College Inn in Chicago, after the thrilling tie-game with Northwestern, in which the “Red-haired Devil,” Lou Salmon, clinched his claim to the title of greatest “line-bucker” of the old-time football. Will Wimberg, whose life was as short and radiantly cheery with hope as a rainbow, Gene Burke and others gave Notre Dame word-settings of worth.
In my time at Notre Dame, the evolution from the old-time college to the present was taking place. In my last year at Notre Dame a senior was allowed in the city, once before, twice after Christmas. Changes took place. Father Cavanaugh, Notre Dame’s supreme advertisement and lasting ideal, especially to those of us who read our future days in the missal
and breviary, became President. The Novitiate now trained future college students, instead of graduates, leaving Father Scheier- with his favorite and most unified Greek class, Tommy Hammer. Professor Mahoney, head of the Faculty Board of Athletic Control, on a sick-bed which he was never to leave, conceived the idea of bringing the college members of the student body to Indianapolis, where Pat Beacom and company pilfered a State Championship.
That year my brother returned to Notre Dame after a course at Harvard, and was filled with a contagious ambition to start Notre Dame toward such days as are now familiar on the athletic field, and Harvard’s march re-echoed, sans band but with Notre Dame words, from the Indianapolis bleachers. Hoping merely to give an incentive to those who follow us in our University Home, we decided to try our very amateurish skill and write our words and our own music. And in 1908 or 1909, the “Victory March” appeared in its original form.
The cover was designed by Moy Chong, Notre Dame’s only Chinese student, who was to his nation sartorially what Jimmy Walker is to New York. We gave the plates and copyright to the University. In June, 1909, we ended our days and took with us memories which have been a guiding star in years that followed. Ten years after my ordination, I heard the “Victory March” for- the first time w-hile on a visit to Notre Dame. How it came to its present exalted condition, I do not know. The coming of Mr. Casasanta was evidently the realization of our hopes, and to him I express my hearty appreciation of a good work admirably done for the best University in the land.
And when the great “get-together” day comes at the end of time, I hope my guardian angel will hide the “Victory March” writers in the heaven-bound crowd in the little Community cemetery and we will march on, Will Wimberg with his song, the rest of us with ours, old Father Francais intoning his “Christus imperat! Christus vincit! Christus imperat!” and Our Blessed and Loving Mother will welcome us, and remark to Her Boy, “How well they harmonize.”
With every best wish, I am very sincerely yours,
Reverend Michael Shea.
So Notre Dame had a battle-song. But the band was allowed to play it only at the half^ and at the end of the football games. New-, snappy, original songs were needed, and the class of ’23 had a man who was ready to write them. Joseph Casasanta presented the Glee Club, the Monogram Club, and the University with the music of “Hike, Notre Dame” in 1924, and two years later, “Down the Line.” The Monogram Club “Absurdities” of those years played to large and enthusiastic crowds when it was breathed about the campus that the new songs were on the programs. Vincent Fagan, ’20, architect and lyricist, wrote such stirring combination of -words as—
Notre Dame men are winning,	•.
When Notre Dame hears “Hike, Hike, Hike!”
and—	.
(Turn to Page 542)
530
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUBS
Just as we predicted, the present season opens as a very busy one. The non-appearance of this page last week did not permit us to go into detail concerning the opening of this busy period, but since we last looked at an examination blank, things have happened with such rapidity that we fear we cannot mention each of them completely enough. We have at this writing, a wealth of material to choose from for this page.
The VILLAGERS, of course, started tilings with their Post-Exam Dance, and since we were there, we can implicitly vouch for the excellence of the affair. There may have been too many ‘stags’ but for those with dates, it was certainly enjoyable. The club is now making elaborate plans for a basketball banquet. Last Monday night, at the regular meeting, Jack Shively succeeded John Marcus as President of the Club.
Since our last writing, the PRESIDENTS CLUB, a new Club for this year has come into existence. Last Sunday in the Law Building a very determined group of young men unanimously elected John Dubuisson, president of the LOUISIANA CLUB, president of the new club. John Rocap, president of the INDIANAPOLIS CLUB, was elected secretary. Under the guidance of Jack Sigler, S.A.C. Chairman of Campus Clubs, the group of presidents amended the charter and hotly discussed various other topics of current interest. This Club promises to be one of the most influential on the campus, giving the club president a new position in campus affairs. It offers the individual club member a chance to present to his club president views which he might find important, and thus to be brought to the S.A.C., after being carefully considered. A lengthy discussion of the Campus Club status in the 1930 Dome took place, and because of the importance of this discussion, another meeting was held last Tuesday noon in the Library.
The YOUNGSTOWN CLUB held a banquet the first of this month at the Oliver Hotel. The banquet was made possible through the proceeds of the Christmas Dance. Frank Carideo was the principal speaker on the program.
The DETROIT CLUB will hold a meeting Thursday evening at which they will complete arrangements for a banquet on the 10th. At the meeting, a new secretary will be elected to succeed John McFarlane in that position.
The CHICAGO CLUB is making elaborate plans for this quarter. It is their intention to sponsor an indoor baseball tournament as the club has done in the past. In addition, the club will attempt a handball and a bowling tournament. John Garden has been appointed chairman of a banquet committee. The banquet is to be held about the first of March.	"
Around Easter, the PITTSBURGH CLUB and the ST. LOUIS CLUB plan to hold dances. The latter club may forego the dance for a banquet. Plans might even be extended to permit both.
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB intends to hold either a banquet or a small dinner dance for its members before Easter.
The BOSTON CLUB has a new idea in holding meetings. It seems that most Bostonians may well be proud of their skating ability. Members go skating, find enough members to constitute a quorum on ice, and hold a meeting. The members of this club boast also, that theirs '♦ will be the first club to receive a write-up in the series of Campus Club articles published in the South Bend NewsTimes. Each Sunday hencefoi-th, some club on the campus . will receive a column in that paper.
Last Wednesday night, the INDIANAPOLIS CLUB held its first meeting since the Christmas vacation. Reports on •* the Christmas dance were discussed. The program for a banquet to be held this semester was arranged.
The NEW JERSEY, CLEVELAND, NORTHERN NEW YORK, UTICA, METROPOLITAN, LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI, GRAND RAPIDS, CALUMET, ROCHESTER, CALIFORNIA, PACIFIC NORTHWEST, TEXAS, CONNECTICUT VALLEY, EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, AKRON, ERIE, and BUFFALO CLUBS are all planning to 2 have some sort of activity during the semester. Each of them will hold a meeting within the next two or three weeks.	y
Among the other clubs, The ENGINEERS, The A. I. E. E., The SPECTATORS, The SCRIBBLERS, The A. S. M. E., The COMMERCE FORUM, The CHEMISTS CLUB, ' The A. A. A. S., and the LAW CLUB will hold their regular meetings.
The PHARMACY CLUB is proposing a trip, if possible in conjunction with the CHEMISTS CLUB, to Whiting, Indiana, to examine the refineries of the Standard Oil Company. The pharmacists are also proposing a trip to Indian- 1 apolis sometime this semester with the senior pre-medic students as the guests of Eli Lilly and Company.
The CHEMIST’S CLUB held their regular meeting last Wednesday evening in Chemistry Hall, at which Mr. Sturgeon, of the Department of Chemistry, spoke. This club will hold election of officers sometime this month.
The Club Editor of the Dome asks the co-operation of the various clubs in the matter of Dome pictures. Those Clubs wishing to have their pictures in the 1930 Dome are asked to see that all their members are present at the day arranged for the picture. Pictures will be taken of the clubs at 12:30 and 12:45_in the Gymnasium. Bulletins will be , posted telling the exact days pictures will be taken. The Dome photographers have only a short time in which to complete this work. It is, therefore, imperative that the Clubs establish some sort of arrangement with the staff of ' the Dome for these pictures.	-
The Notre Dame Scholastic	531
Lone Goal Is Margin of 20-18 Win Over Marquette Five
TRACKMEN TROUNCE BUTLER
World’s Record Broken; Three Gym Marks Cracked in 71-15 Rout.
IN a meet featured by the breaking of one world’s indoor record and two Notre Dame gym records, the Blue and Gold runners opened the 1930 indoor track season with a 71-15 triumph over Butler University, of Indianapolis.
Bert Nelson, a sophomore at Butler, and holder of the National A. A. U. junior championship high-jump record, made a new world’s record for that event when he cleared the bar at six feet, six and three-fourths inches, one-four inch better than the mark set by Harold Osborne, Illinois A. C. star, in 1925. Nelson, in collegiate competition for the first time, gave a beautiful exhibition of jumping and won by five and one-half inches over Darling, Notre Dame, his nearest rival.
The two gym records were broken by Notre Dame men. Johnny O’Brien stepped the 60-yard high hurdles in :07.6 to slice one-fifth second from the old record and nose out Roy Bailie in a beautiful race. The old record was made by Joe Griffin, Notre Dame, in 1927.
Alex Wilson, of Canadian Olympic fame, clipped four-fifths of a second from the best record in the 440-yard dash. His time was :50.8. Stack, also of Notre Dame, made the original record in 1926.
As was predicted shortly after practice started a month ago, the Blue and Gold track men showed speed and endurance. Notre Dame scored clean sweeps in four events and took first place in four others.
(Continued on Page 532)
DeCook’s Basket in Last Two Minutes Gives Notre Dame Victory
RAY DeCOOK, elongated Notre Dame center, was lucky enough to be the one to pick the last iron out of the fire with but two minutes to play remaining last Tuesday, and his field goal which clicked from far out, was the rewarding margin in Notre Dame’s 20 to 18 repeat victory ovei- the Marquette Hilltoppers. The Marquette gymnasium was jammed with a capacity crowd, and they saw the Hilltoppers fight a closely guarded game during the first half, holding a narrow 8 to 5 lead at the period. “Ooney” Donovan’s long shot from the floor was the only Notre Dame goal during the half.
The Blue and Gold five took life at the start of the second period, gaining a 13 to 8 advantage, but Marquette rallied to regain it at 14 to 13. The lead sallied back and forth, with Notre Dame finally breaking through the stubborn defense of the Milwaukeeans. DeCook’s goal in the last two minutes then turned the tide of battle to Notre Dame’s favor.
“Wahoo” Smith ran his average up considerably by scoring three field goals and two free tosses. Al Shipley, Marquette guard, made a like number of baskets, but only one foul shot.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME (20) B F P
Newbold, f 0 0 0
Gavin, f 0 0 2 McCarthy, fill
Crowe, f	10	0
DeCook, c 111
Donovan, g 2	0	1
Smith, g	3	2	1
Totals	8	4	6
MARQUETTE (IS) p p O'Donnell, fill McEUigott, £210 Andrew, c	0 0 2
King, g 111 Shipley, g	3 11
Totals 7 4 5
Free throws missed—McEUigott, King 2, Shipley, DeCook.
Referee—John Schommer, Chicago. Umpire—Nick Kearns, DePaul. .
WABASH QUINTET LOSES FRAY
Notre Dame Quint Victor in Slow 26-10 Tilt With Little Giants.
PROMISE of a close and interesting basketball contest turned out to be a dull and unexciting onesided rout in Notre Dame’s favor over the Wabash Little Giants last Friday night on the home floor. With the score at the half, Notre Dame 14, Wabash 8, the Blue and Gold eagers ran the gamut of the downstaters’ net to shove the count up to 26 to 10 at the final gun. .
For the first ten minutes Wabash and Notre Dame made a game out of the affair by alternating in holding the lead and for a time the downstater’s seemed to have a better than fair chance. In the second half, however, the Wabash forwards were unable to sink a single field goal and the best in the line of scoring they could do were two markers from the foul line.
“Wahoo” Ed. Smith provided the only interesting exhibition during the evening with his usual perfunctory yodeling and fine, steady back guarding, meanwhile finding time to drop three goals through the net.
Groves, Little Giant center, drew a good bit of attention for his speedy floorwork and under-the-basket deportment. Groves was Wabash’s lone cog in a poor and sloppy defense, and aptly handled the sphere in the pivot position while on the offense, working a slick underhanded backward pass to perfection.
Three and one-half minutes of play ended fruitlessly for both teams but Chase scored a toss from the foul line and McCarthy’s field goal and
532
The Notre Dame Scholastic
two free throws put Notre Dame in the lead, 4 to 2.
Groves plunked in an easy shot in front of the basket and then Harbison made one of two foul tosses ring true, taking a 6-5 advantage for Wabash. McCarthy came dashing under the basket after a beautiful break on a pass from DeCook and goaled his shot, Notre Dame leading 6-5. Harbison sank a slippery shot from right center, making it 7-6 in Wabash’s favor again.
A high arch shot from mid-floor by Newbold with fourteen minutes of the initial period up gave the Blue and Gold the advanatge. “Waahoo” Smith corked one through in front on a pass from McCarthy for a count of 10-7. Donovan and Newbold dribbled under the basket on successive shots and just as the gun went off Referee Kearns called a foul on Newbold. Harbison’s free shot was good and the score stood 14-8, as his teammates hustled to the dressing room.
Smith opened the second half with a neat peg under the basket and DeCook’s high archer swished the score to 18 to 8. Geever Gavin replaced McCarthy and his charity toss was okeh. Ray DeCook provided the only genuine thrill during the game by dribbling haphazardly down the length of the floor through the dissembled Wabashites to sweep the ball through the net, making the count 21 to 8. Smith scored a foul shot and a second later he and Donovan clipped the net from the court, increasing the lead to 26-8.
Wabash’s only points in the second half came with but three minutes to play. Groves and Howell stepped to the foul line to throw in two markers, making the final score 26 to 10 in Notre Dames’ favor.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME (26) G F P	WABASH (10) G F	P
McCarthy, f 2 1 0	Chase, f	0 2	0
Gavin, f	0 12	Haskett, f 0 0	1
Heenan, f 0 0 0	Bash, f	0 0	0
Newbold, f 2 13	Bowman, f 0 0	1
Crowe, f	0 0 0	Groves, c 11	2
DeGook, c 2 0 0	Johnson, c 0 0	0
Busch, c	0 0 2	Howell, g 0 1	0
Smith, g	3 10	Ellison, g 0 0	1
Burns, g	0 0 0	Harbison, g 1 2	1
Donovan, g 2 0 2	Hartinger, g 0 0	0
Conley, g 0 0 0		
	 	 ——	——r 		—
Totals	11 4 9	Totals	2 6	6
Free throws: First half—Notre Dame, 2		of
3; Wabash, 4 of 6; second half—Notre Dame,		
.	2 of 5; Wabash, 2 of 4.	Totals: Notre Dame,	
4 of 8; Wabash, 6 of	10. Score at half	
Notre Dame 14, Wabash 8.		
Officials: Referee, Kearns (DePaul) : Umpire, Schommer (Chicago).
❖-------------------------'❖
A REAL TRIBUTE
DERT NELSON, Butler Uni-versity sophomore high jumper, who cracked the world’s record for that classic with a leap of six feet, six and three-fourths inches last Saturday, was later introduced to the audience by Bob Hellrung, and he paid to the Notre Dame student body one of the finest tributes ever received from an outsider. Nelson praised the hearty cooperation and interest of the students in his recordbreaking attempt. “I sure want to thank you fellows. I have never- jumped where the crowd was so quiet,” Nelson said. “You helped me a great deal and I want to thank you a lot.”
TRACKMEN TROUNCE
BUTLER
(Continued from Page 531)
Nelson and Joe Sivak, who beat Brant Little and Joe Quigley rather easily in the mile run, were the only Butler men able to score first places. Jones took second in the two-mile event, Ur-bain third in the 880, and Leet third in the 440 to complete Butler’s scoring.
Boagni, McCormick and Cummings ran a very good race in the 60-yard dash, finishing in the order named. McCormick and Cummings were winners in the two trial heats, Mac’s victory coming after no less than six false starts had been made by the sprinters.
Johnson, a monogram man from 1928, who was out of school last year, won the pole-vault with apparent ease.
Captain Joe Abbott had little trouble in disposing of the field in the half-mile, while Don McConnville ran a nice race to take second place over Urbain of Butler.
Gene Howery won the two-mile run by about twenty-five yards with a beautiful sprint on the last round of the sixteen lap “grind.” Finishing the fifteenth lap with a narrow three-yard lead, Gene quickly tucked the race away with his surprising sprint.
The mile relay team composed of Roy Bailie, Bud Tuohy, Jack Scanlon, and Alex Wilson, all running in the relay for the first time, gave a good account of themselves to win by at least sixty yards.
The results:
60-Yard Dash—Won by Boagni (N.D.); McCormick (N.D.) second; Cummings (N.D.) third. Time :06 2/5.
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by O’Brien (N.D.); Bailie (N.D.) second; Vaughn (N.D.) third. Time :07 3/5. (Breaking gym record by 1/5 second.)
Mile Run—Won by Sivak (B.); Little (N.D.) second; Quigley (N.D.) third. Time 4:28 4/5.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (N.D.); Scanlon (N.D.) second; Leet (B.) third. Time :50 4/5. (Breaking gym record by 3/5 second.)
880-Yard Run—Won by Captain Abbott (N.D.); McConnville (N.D.) second; Urbain (B.) third. Time 2:01 3/5.
Two-Mile Run—Won by Howery (N.D.); Jones (B.) second; Biggins (N.D.) third. Time 9:59.
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Bailie, Tuohy, Scanlon, Wilson). Time 3:34.
Pole Vault—Won by Johnson (N.D.); Fishleigh (N.D.) second; Slattery (N.D.) third. Height 12 ft.
High Jump—Won by Nelson (B.); Darling (N.D.), second; Abernathy (N.D.) third. Height, 6 feet, 6% inches. (Breaking world’s indoor-record by % inch.)
Shot Put—Won by Mortenson (N.D.); Brill (N.D.) second; Hoffman (N.D.) third. Distance, 42 feet, 1% inches.
❖		—		4*
TOTAL TEAM SCORING			
(Including game of Feb.		1, 1930)	
	Goals Fouls		Totals
- J. McCarthy	24	19	67
Newbold	24	16	64
DeCook	25	10	60
Smith	19	6	44
Crowe	20	3	43
Donovan	16	6	38
Gavin	16	5	’ 37
Heenan	6	3	15
Host	4	5	13
Kizer	5	0	10
O’Connell	1	2	4
Busch	1	2	4
Burns	1	2	4
Duwan	1	2	4
Conley	1	0	2
Carideo	1	0	2
W. McCarthy	0	1	1
Forsee	0	1	1
.. - -	—		.	—
Totals	165	83	413
Total scoring of opponents:		296 points.	
♦								❖
The Notre Dame Scholastic
533
QiittititiiiiftiiiuttiiiitintiuiiiiiiiiiuiittituitiiiuiiiiuiimitttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuMitiiiiiiiiitiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiumiiiuiiuiiiiiHtiiiiiiiiiniiitQ | INTERHALL ITEMS |
This year marks the first time in many years that Sorin has produced a fighting lightweight team. Jim Malloy, Bernie Conroy and Spike McAdams, and several others are playing a prominent part in Sorin’s latest venture. Frank Bailey, the dean of the Sorin heavies, is playing his usual reliable game at guard for old Sorin.
C. J. Kozak, the spark plug of the Off-Campus football team, is missed from active cage competition this year. Bill Walsh and Walt Beasely, two other veterans from Off-Campus’s great eleven of the past year, are on deck for every practice and game. Rumor has it that “Kozie” will re-don the maroon and white uniform soon and return to the court game as soon as he finishes introducing his “kid” brother to all the boys.
Teams must observe the limit for the lightweight league. One hundred and fifty pounds is the maximum and the playing of men overweight will result in forfeiture of the contest. Every player in this league must have weighed in to be eligible. .
Interhall coaches, officials and players who wish to secure basketball shoes may purchase them at cost by ordering them through the team coach, who may order them through the Varsity Equipment Office.
The arduous duties of arranging schedules, providing for officials and seeing that the affairs in the interhall leagues are rim off smoothly, have
¥
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
(Including games played February 2)
Heavyweight Division	Lightweight Division
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.		Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Lyons	3	3	0	1.000	Howard	3	3	0	1.000
Morrissey	3	3	0	1.000	Lyons	4	4	0	1.000
Badin	3	3	0	1.000	Sophomore	4	4	0	1.000
Sophomore	4	4	0	1.000	Badin	4	3	1	.750
St. Edwards	I 3	3	0	1.000	Corby	4	3	1	.750
Corby	3	3	0	1.000	Off-Campus	4	3	1	.750
Off-Campus	4	2	2	.500	St. Edwards	3	2	1	.666
Sorin	3	1	2	.333	Brownson	4	2	2	.500
Carroll	3	1	2	.333	Carroll	3	1	2	.333
Freshman	4	1	3	.250	Sorin	3	1	2	.333
Bronson	4	1	3	.250	Freshman	4	1	3	.250
Howard	3	0	3	.000	Walsh	4	0	4	.000
Walsh	4	0	4	.000	Morrissey	4	0	4	.000
fallen upon the shoulders of Dan Halpin, junior manager, this year.
Formerly some member of the
Dan Halpin
faculty took active charge of the work but this season, with numerous changes on the faculty list and coaching staff, Halpin has had to complete the work himself. The great amount of interest in interhall activities this year and the provident success points only to the careful and painstaking efforts of the man in charge.
Hey you! This column is for your benefit. If you have any question regarding interhall athletics, or- if you are withholding any comment on the same be sure to drop a word to the Sport Editor at 258 Morrissey Hall. The Scholastic sport department will be glad to print any suggestions or comment of the students in this new column. '
ERSKINE AWARD TO BE PRESENTED TOMORROW
To-morrow night, in the gym, between the halves of the Pitt-Notre Dame basketball game, the Albert Russell Erskine Trophy, emblematic of the national football championship as determined by 250 sports writers, will be presented to Notre Dame, 1929 winner.
Avery Brundage, of Chicago, president of the Amateur Athletic Union and a member of the Erskine Award Committee, will make the presentation. A member of the Notre Dame Athletic Department will accept the trophy for the team in the absence of Coach Rockne, who is recuperating in Florida.
The Erskine Trophy, a silver cup beautifully engraved and standing approximately two feet in height, will remain in the possession of Notre Dome until early in 1931 when it will pass to the team selected as 1930 champion. In the event that one school wins the trophy three consecutive years, the cup will become its permanent property.
Presentation of the Erskine Award, symbolical of football supremacy, to the Fighting Irish is the result of the nation-wide poll of opinions of the most prominent sports writers made under the direction of W. 0. Mc-Geehan, sports editor of the New York Herald-Tribune and. chairman of the Erskine Award Committee.
With the anouncement of the trophy presentation the method by which the national champion is selected assumes new interest. Decision as to the team that has won the title rests with probably the most impressive body of sportsmen ever called upon to serve as an athletic tribunal. At the close of the season, ballots are mailed to members of the committees who designate the three teams they consider best. Valuing the votes at 5 for first, 3 for second, and 1 for third, this first ballot produced the following results: Notre Dame, 777; Pittsburgh, 442; Purdue, 210; with several others getting a decreasing number of votes. A second ballot bearing the names of the three teams which received the largest number of votes on the first ballot is sent to the Contest Committee. The team receiving the greatest number of votes on the second ballot is acclaimed the champion. This final total found Notre Dame leading with 190 votes while Pittsburgh and Purdue followed with 41 and 2 votes, respectively.
534
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Technique First—
then up and at 'em!
SMOKING a pipe is like flying an airplane—you really ought to know how, if you’re hoping to enjoy it much.
Pipe technique can be picked up through experience, or it can be learned outright. Master it now, to relish your pipes!
Rule One for Pipe-smoking is “Find your tobacco.”
Rule One stops some beginners. They look here. They search there. They hunt . . . we must discard false modesty! Rule One means Edgeworth!
Rule Two is . . but would you learn all the secrets of pipe technique? Then let us send you our Rules for Pipe-smoking—and a free-for-nothing trial packet of genuine old Edgeworth, the tobacco made for pipes. Think of it—rules and Edgeworth, the how and the what of pipe-smoking, all for your 2^ stamp and that coupon there below.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15f pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
• LARUS & BRO. CO.	"l
। 100 S. 22d St.. Richmond, Va.	!
| I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try I । -it in a good pipe.	-	!
I	|
j Warn*	|
I Street	J
Town and State Now let the Edgeworth comet V
♦
Splinters from the Press Box
>------------------------------
Beit Nelson’s record high-jump last Saturday was a great performance, but we do not think it much more noteworthy than Alec Wilson’s quarter in :50.8 or Johnny O’Brien’s flight over the hurdles in :07.6. Wilson’s quarter would not have been worse than :49 flat on an outdoor track, as the track in the gymnasium is one of the slowest in the country. And O’Brien’s race is more significant than one would think at first glance. Some of the best hurdlers ever produced around these parts have run on the track in the gym and have failed to break :07.8. This number includes Kane, of Ohio Wesleyan, and Spence of Detroit City College.
—o—
To-morrow night the Millrose Games, the classic of indoor track, will take place in Madison Square Garden. As usual, the officials of the meet Have combed the United States and Canada for material to compete, and the result is one of the finest arrays of talent one could possibly see outside the Olympic Games. Notre Dame will be represented by the two-mile relay which will meet the cream of the East. The few who know are judging the Irish to be the favorites in this race, one of the features of the program, although Georgetown, Holy Cross, and N. Y. U. will be among their opponents. Jack Elder will also be one of the favorites in the unusual Millrose sprint of fifty yards with its qualifying heats of sixty and forty yards.
—o—
We look for George Keogan to start his quintet on another winning streak to-morrow night even as he did toward the close of the season last year after going through a more or less unsuccessful mid-season schedule. Four hard games remain with four acknowledged leaders in their
WANTED
Talented Freshmen to entertain at campus gatherings.
108 Corby Hall
respective sections, and it will not be altogether a surprise to see the sophomores on the team finally get going and fit into the system, with the result that a few upsets will be recorded.
When the I. C. A. A. A. A. holds its annual indoor meet on March 1st, in New York, there will be two athletes who have a chance to do what no one else has ever done before,— win an indoor title in a track event on three successive occasions. Hagan of Columbia in the two-mile, and Daley of Holy Cross, in the seventy yard dash are the men who will have this chance. Both have won for the past two years, and are the favorites this year. Bruno Hill, of Princeton, won the indooi’ shot-put title in 1923, 1924, and 1925, but no one has ever won a track meet event more than twice.
When they list the great athletes of 1930, one whom they will have to give high rank to is young Densmore X. Shute, whose superb brand of golf has made him the sensation of the winter season. Playing under all kinds of condition and against the stiffest opposition, he has always been right in the thick of the fight in every tournament he has been in.
If Camera puts on another exhibition like the one in Chicago against Rioux, his chances of winning the fancy of the American sporting public will be just about shot. Even the w. k. “suckers” of the prize-fight racket—than whom there are none more suckerish—will be fed up with the poor brand of fighting which most of the heavyweights now floating around have been putting out.
If the interest in the interhall competition keeps up the way it has prevailed during the football season and current basketball campaign, 192930 will be undoubtedly go down in Notre Dame history as the most successful venture in interhall activities since its inception.
All we need now is a little more hearty co-operation on the hands of the contestants—and non-contestants alike.
We note with regret, however, the passing of baseball from the list of interhall sports. The building of the new stadium and law building removes from use five or six- of the old diamonds. We hope, however, that some arrangements may be made to continue this popular interhall sport.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
535
K-
•X
•J

Defective Eyes
Are often accompanied with normal vision. This type of defect is worse than very bad vision, as it many times results in nerve exhaustion.	.
We are fully equipped to give you a thorough Refractive Analysis which is more essential than just the purchase of a pair of glasses. Consult us about your eyes.
LEMONTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ South Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. (A quarter of a century in the same location.)
A Better Optometric Service.
RENT A
TYPEWRITER—
(M PER MONTH
Special Student Rate
THREE d?Q MONTHS s	r
—0—
THE
OFFICE ENGINEERS
126-128 S. Main St.
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
Union Trust Company
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
JEFFERSON & MICHIGAN
Announcing the Arrival of our new.........
Spring Shoes
-0—
WALK - OVER
Shoe Store
' 111 S. MICHIGAN
J. Laughlin, N. D. Rep.
536
Notre Dame Scholastic
i
Starts Saturday
Where nerve is king and the Queen’s the God- , dess of Chance 1
Where Fortunes are risked at the turn of a card!
Paramount’s Astounding
ALL-TALKING EXPOSE
OF BROADWAY LIFE
WILLIAM
POWELL
in
his first starring picture
“STREET
0 F
CHANCE”
with
JEAN ARTHUR
REGIS TOOMEY
and
KAY FRANCIS
On Our Stage I
E. K. Nadel Presents
“ The Golf Fiends
A MUSICAL COMEDY RIOT WITH
A BEVY OF GIRLS Featuring Raymond Wilbert Champion Trick Golf Artist and a Company of 25 - Performers - 25
-------On Our Screen---- “In The Next Room” With Jack Mulhall
W ednesday—Friday The stars of “Broadway Melody” here again!
BESSIE LOVE and
CHARLES KING in “Chasing Rainbows9 9 with JACK BENNY
Home of Paramount Pictures
A Publix Theatre
-- Wed.—Thurs.—Fri.—Sat. - On Our Screen
“Cameo Kirby”
----- COMING SOON --------
'Blackstone' “America's Foremost Magician” With a Company of
25 people 25
Blackstone’s show will amaze you. Bring the children. It is a show for everybody from ages of 6 to 60.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
537
TWO-MILE RELAY TEAM IN TWO EVENTS
The two-mile relay team, led by Coach John P. Nicholson and Captain Joe Abbott, left this morning for New York City, where they will make their first appearance of the season Saturday evening in the Millrose Games. Monday they will cross over the river to Newark for the Seton Hall games that night.
Coach Nicholson took five men on this trip, the fourth place on the team being a toss-up between Joe Quigley and Don McConnville. Both will be given a chance with the team, with the odd man running in a special race on each evening. Captain Abbott, Brant Little, Alex Wilson, and Joe Quigley are expected to get the call Saturday, with McConnville taking Quigley’s place for the Monday race.
Great things are expected of the team this year, and tomorrow’s meet, their initial appearance, will give them a taste of the competition they will experience in their quest of a new record. New York University, as well as several other prominent eastern universities, will be represented in the race, and it may be remembered that New York University
has been noted for its half-milers in recent years.
Jack Elder will join his former mates in New York and take part in the sprint series of both the Millrose and Seton Hall games. Jack will also run against the highest class of opposition, for Cy Leland, Texas Christian University flash, has accepted an invitation to take part in these sprints. Leland received much publicity last fall as the fastest man in football. Jack is out to show that a Kentucky thoroughbred is faster than a Texan even if the Texan has a “Longhorn” on his back.
75 INTERHALL RUNNERS
REPORT THIS WEEK
Over seventy-five men answered the call issued for interhall track candidates during the past week. Equipment has been distributed, and, as Coach J. P. Nicholson pointed out, a schedule will be drawn up, in which time for practice in the gym will be allotted to each squad.
Two sectional meets will be held in each of the two divisions of campus teams. Freshman, Sorin, Howard, Corby, Lyons, Badin, and Off-Campus
comprise one division, and the members of the other section are Brownson, Carroll, St. Edward’s, Sophomore, Walsh, and Morrissey. The meet in which the members of the first division will compete will be held on February 21, and competition in the second section will take place on March 1.	•	.
Every man entering the various events must have reported for practice at least one week before the meet takes place. Varsity and freshman tracksters will be barred from action in the interhall meets.
The annual interhall meet will finish the season when representatives of every hall will participate in the preliminaries and the men who survive the initial heat will be entered in the finals. The date for the interhall competition has not definitely been set, it was said.
Those freshmen interhall runners making specified times in their events will receive Freshmen numerals for their efforts.
It is understood that full equipment for the interhall runners will be procured by the equipment office and will be available in a short time. This is uncertain, however, and other arrangements may be made.
STARTING TD A XT A TA A STARTS SAT. SATURDAY \JT _£v JLX -L 1 11 JLJ XjL For One Week
Janet Gaynor ■ Charles Farrell
if ‘
'	— in —
“Sunny Side Up”
The William Fox All- Talking-All-Singing Epic
Feature Will Go On At 1:00 - 3:19 - 5:25 - 7:31 -9:50
538
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JACK ELDER WINS RUPERT F. MILLS MEMORIAL TRACK TROPHY
SCHEDULE OF INTERHALL BASKETBALL GAMES (Applies to both Divisions) SUNDAY, FEB. 9
Brownson.	9:30 a. m.	Corby
St. Edwards	10:00 a. m.	Morrissey
Badin	1:30 p. m.	Off Campus
Lyons	2:30 p. m.	Freshman
Howard	3:30 p. m.	Sophomore
Carroll	4:30 p. m.	Sorin
No	Game—Walsh.	
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 12 i		
Off Campus	7:00 p. m.	Walsh
Freshman	8:00 p. m.	Corby
St. .Edwards	9:00 p. m.	Sorin
THURSDAY, FEB. 13
Carroll	7:00 p. m. Morrissey
Badin	8:00 p. m.	Howard
Lyons	9:00 p. n>. Sophomore
No Game—Brownson.
' SUNDAY, FEB. 16
St. Edwards	9:30 a. m.	Carroll
Lyons	10:30 a. m.	Sorin
Off Campus	1:30 p. m.	Sophomore
Brownson	2:30 p. m.	Morrissey
Freshman '	3:30 p. m.	Walsh
Howard	4:30 p. m.	Corby
No	Game—Badin.	
Jack Elder, the “Flying Colonel,” chalked up two more victories for himself on January 29, and on the same night suffered his first defeat of the 1930 season. Running in the Rupert F. Mills spring series of the St. Joseph Catholic Club games, in Newark, New Jersey, Jack won the 60-yard and 70-yard events in good time, but lost a close race to Jimmy Pappas, of the Newark A. C., in the opening 50-yard dash.
As a result of these two victories Jack was awarded the Rupert F. Mills Memorial trophy given in honor of that great Notre Dame athlete of a few years ago, Rupe Mills, who was drowned last summer.
After the St. Joseph’s games, Jack left for his home in Louisville, Kentucky, for a short visit with his parents. He won a special 50-yard dash exhibition race at St. Xavier College in Cincinnati Wednesday, and his next appearance in the East, he announced, will be in the Millrose games, New York City, tomorrow. He also intends to run in the Seton Hall games, Newark, on the tenth, and in the Meadowbrook games, Philadelphia, on February 13.
INTERHALL PRACTICE SCHEDULE
MONDAY, FEB. 10
Varsity Floor		Apparatus Room Lyons
Walsh	7:00 p. m.	
Howard Corby	8:00 p. m. 9:00 p. m.	Freshman Badin
TUESDAY, FEB		. 11
Off Campus Carroll Morrissey	7:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m. . 9:00 p. m.	Sophomore St. Edwards Sorin
FRIDAY, FEB.		14
Lyons Freshman Badin	7:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m. 9:00 p. m.	Walsh Howard Corby
MONDAY, FEB.		17
Sophomore Brownson Sorin	7:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m. 9:00p. m.	Off Campus Carroll Morrissey
TUESDAY, FEB.		18
Walsh Howard St. Edwards	7:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m. 9:00 p. m.	Lyons Freshman Badin
FRIDAY, FEB.		21
Off Campus Carroll Morrissey	7:00 p. m. 8:00 p. m. 9:00 p. m.	Sophomore Brownson Sorin
125 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Tlie Richman Tuxedo, including black or white silk vest, is recognized everywhere by smartly dressed men for its high standard of quality in materials, design and workmanship.	.
Indeed no better demonstration of our ability to create outstanding clothing value could be offered you . . . Clothing value that is made possible by our tremendous buying power, modem manufacturing methods and huge sales volume. All	.
£
The Notre Dame Scholastic
539
Excellent Sandwiches
V
f-
I t
r
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Hot Chili Hot Tamale
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 327 North Michigan Street
Hot and Cold Drinks
r
"When you go away for . week-ends, go quicker and enjoy a longer stay by taking the South Shore Line.
Fast trains leave South Bend every hour on the hour for Michigan City, Gary, East Chicago, Hammond and Chicago.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
HELLO MEN!

SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
a
The Home of Quality
£
1

WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 No. Main Street
South Bend, Ind.
—o—
New Spring
Neckwear
by Bachrach
$2.00 and up
—o---
Imp. and Dom. Meris Wear
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTERHALL BASKETBALL RESULTS
Heavyweight League
January 18—
Freshman 9, St. Edwards 15.
Howard 10, Carroll 13.
Walsh 8, Sophomore 17.
Brownson 17, Badin 18.
Corby 4, Morrissey 10.
Off-Campus 12, Lyons 24.
January 26—
Howard 6, Lyons 13.
Corby 3, Sophomore 20.
Off-Campus 11, Freshman 14.
Walsh 11, Brownson 19.
Carroll 19, Badin 24.
January 28—
Brownson 10, Sophomore 23.
Freshman 14, Morrissey 21.
Sorin 16, Badin 17.
Jamiary 29—
Howard 9, Off-Campus 17.
Walsh 10, Lyons 23.
Corby 6, St. Edwards 8.
February 2—
Walsh 16, St. Edwards 33.
Brownson 18, Sorin 24.
Carroll 6, Off-Campus 15.
Freshman 8, Sophomore 13.
Lightweight League
January 18—
St. Edwards 17, Freshman 4.
Carroll 10, Howard 7. Sophomore 14, Walsh 12.
Badin 16, Brownson 9.
Corby 13, Morrissey 8.
Lyons 15, Off-Campus 11.
January 26—
Lyons 23, Howard 20.
Sophomore 18, Corby 11.
Sorin 22, Morrissey 9.
Off-Campus 24, Freshman 11.
Brownson 22, Walsh 6.
Badin 18, Carroll 6.
January 28—
Sophomore 13, Brownson 3.
Freshman 11, Morrissey 10.
Badin 22, Sorin 5.
Off-Campus 23, Howard 17.
Lyons 18, Walsh 9.
Corby 15, St; Edwards 6.
February 2—
St. Edwards 13, Walsh 4.
Brownson 18, Sorin 14.
Corby 18, Badin 16.	‘
Lyons 21, Morrissey 12.
Off-Campus 18, Carroll 8.
Sophomore 23, Freshman 8.
NEW SPORTS IN INTERHALL PLANS
Two new sports have appeared on the list of interhall activities—tennis and golf. This announcement -will probably be of great interest to a
541
large number of the men, and with the facilities possible, the new eighteen-hole golf course and the eight tennis courts, keen competition can be expected.
The tennis schedule will be arranged similarly to that of the football program. The plans for the golf contests will be given later on.
Following the basketball season, which extends through the month of March, there will be three swimming events for the interhall competitors. The halls will be divided into three groups, each group having a meet; the twm top halls from each meet will then be picked to compete in a final. Freshmen, competing in the swimming events and attaining specified times, to be posted later, will receive numerals.
During the past seasons, baseball has occupied an important part of the interhall program, but this year, unless special arrangements can be made, it will have to be omitted. The space occupied by the new stadium takes up six of the old diamonds, and the ground being used for the new law building covers two more. Furthei- particulars of these sports will be given as they are decided upon by those in charge.
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
r
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
Follow The Crowd, Men,
to
The Rainbou)
Restaurant
South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place
Opposite Palais Boyale
—O—
We serve
Special Breakfasts, Lunches and Dinners.
Mid-night Specials also.
—o— OUR COOKING AND FOOD ARE WONDERFUL.
542
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SONGS RISING HIGH
(Continued from Page 529)
“On down the line, beneath the colors of her ancient fame!”
The songs became famous immediately. “Hike” has sold through three editions, and unlike “A Little Kiss Each Morning,” will probably be selling well in 1940. Over 3,000 copies of “Down the Line” have been bought. The “Victory March” leads the field of collegiate music in sales, in popularity, and—may we add?— in merit.
In his office, Professor Casasanta usually smokes a cigar; it is as much a part of the scene as his broad smile, or the pictures of past Glee
Clubs, and framed Victrola records on the wall. He wants more songs for Notre Dame; and he wants Notre Dame men to know Notre Dame songs.
His Glee Club has recorded for two discs: two sacred numbers, and “Down the Line’ ’and “Hike Song”; in Hollywood, it made the only college glee club Vitaphone recording (Colfax Theater patrons hear it whenever the management decides on a Notre Dame day), and has broadcast over KDKA, WABC, WEEI, WCFL, KYW, WGN. The band has recorded the “Victory March” and “Hike Song” and last year, the orchestra turned out a snappy dance record of the “Victory March” and “Down the Line.”
We don’t like to include here the
Prom Songs, and Cotillion ditties that are often connected musically with Notre Dame, but after all, although they are ephemeral and often silly, they are part of the melody output of the school, and besides, we hear that John Belj on is writing something rather good and different for this year’s Prom. With Fathei* Burke’s “Ten O’clock Walk” and “Notre Dame Girl,” and ballads of this kind, we hope it is placed in that particular cubby-hole of Notre Dame’s music desk.
“Hear these Notre Dame boys sing their battle songs and you will know why they have winning teams,” says a famous recording firm. Rather, we say, “Know Notre Dame’s traditions and you’ll know why these boys sing the way they do.”
You can “keep up” in your studies as well as engage in college activities if you maintain good physical condition.
Since constipation is the cause of most ill-health, it pays to prevent this widespread evil.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krum-bles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
Kellogg’s all-bran is guaranteed to bring prompt and permanent relief from constipation—even in chronic cases. It supplies the system with roughage in generous quantities. Just eat two tablespoonfuls every day. With milk or cream—fruits or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity
k i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
543
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Residence Phone 3-4041 Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Incas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
I
£
I
LIKE TWO PENS
for the Price of One
—a Pocket Pen for Classroom Notes, and a Desk Pen for Your Room —Guaranteed for Life!
If you buy a Parker Pocket Duofold you now can have a Desk Set without buying a second pen. Or if you buy a Parker Duofold Desk Set you also now receive a Duofold Pocket Pen guaranteed for life. Either way, you save the price of a second pen—$5, $7 or $10, according to the model.
By adding a tapered end, you convert your Duofold Pocket Pen to a Desk Pen in 10 seconds. By removing the taper and putting on the Pocket Cap you restore it to a Pocket Duofold on leaving office or home.
Thue every owner of a Parker Pocket Pen owns half aDesk Set. Getting a Desk Base completes it. We now include pen taper free with that.
Duofold
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE
And to every buyer of a Parker Desk Set, we now give a Pocket Cap with Clip. Thus his Desk Pen is also a Pocket Pen—like 2 Pens for the price of one Set. Be sure to ask for the Pocket Cap with your Desk Set.
Parker’s newstreamlined Duofold Pens (and Pencils to match) set lower in the pocket than others because the clip starts at the fop—not halfway down ' the cap. This smart, balanced shape feels “at home” in the hand—and writes with our famous 47th improvement—Pressureless Touch.
Go see this revolutionary Convertible Duofold at any nearby pen counter.
THE PARKER PEN CO„ Janesville, Wis. Offices and Subsidiaries: New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, Dallas, San Francisco; Toronto, Can.; London, Eng.
Streamlined shape, sets low in pocket —greater ink capacity than average, size for size ~Non-breakable Barrels of Jewel-like, Colorful Permanite. Super-smooth, hand-ground points.
Pencils to match, $3.25 to $5
Convertible
. .for Pocket. .for Desk

544
The Notre Dame Scholastic
❖	♦------------------4
I On Down the Line
. . . Nearly 59 points a game is the average of the St. Anthony’s College, San Antonio, Texas, basketball team this season ... In 15 games the Yellowjackets have rung up 879 points . . . JULIAN, sharpshooting forward, has contributed 390 points ... an average of 26 points per game . . . An athletic carnival of basketball and track is to take place at Minnesota, Feb. 22, between teams from Minnesota, Purdue and Wisconsin . . . Gophers will play the Boilermakers on the court and the track teams will cavort on the paths at the same time . . .
—o—

Remember, the brain doesn’t function alone. “The most brilliant man” of the senior class takes advantage of the added mental stimulus that comes from a strong, healthy body.
Shredded Wheat adds to your thinking prowess by building up your physical reserve. It supplies the essential body fuel in the most
Man”
delectable and easily digestible form. If you want your mental wheels to whirl in double quick time keep your physical machinery in perfect condition. A bowl of Shredded Wheat with whole milk every morning will do wonders to increase your intellectual caliber.
THE SHREDDED WHEAT COMPANY
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers!
QttMmiwwmtmmiiiumiiiiia....................aaaHiimitim'Uimnttmmtiiuuwmimiuiimttiti...aaaaaaaaaaaaQ
. . . SANDY HERD is a veteran gold pro at Moor Park, England . . . He has established a record by holing out in one 18 times . . . When he gets his 20th ace HERD will also get a solid gold putter . . . YOUNG (W.L.) STRIBLING flies high when he fights ... He travels in his own airplane to the scene of his encounter . . . and pilots the ship himself . . .
—o—
. . . HUGH BEZDEK, ex-Penn State football coach, is placed in a peculiar position . . .He’s now director of the school of physical education and athletics at Penn State . . . BEZDEK must choose his successor . . . KEENE FITZPATRICK, Princeton football trainer and track coach, has been engaged in coaching for 40 years ... 756 teams is the record entry of high schools seeking the Illinois high school cage title . . . When Pitt Panthers played Montana State recently, HYATT connected for 27 of the 38 points scored by Pitt . . . He made 12 field goals and 3 fouls . . .
... Indiana University plays Southern Methodist in football next season the week before the Hoosiers meet Notre Dame . . . Northwestern lays claim to the best set of pole vaulters on any one team in the country . . . Wildcats have one, TOM WARNE, , k who can do 13 feet, 7 inches . . . and five others who vary from 12 feet to 13 feet . . . Spiro’s awarded satin trunks to winners of the News-Times ’ Golden Gloves Tournament . . . color iki gold and blue which should be very * popular . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
545
546
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CORRECT Evening Clothes
i
For the Junior- Prom or your next weekend in Chicago— for yourself—confidence—new hats from Dobbs that are becomingly smart—new Florsheim shoes with the popular narrow toe—new evening clothes and everyday suits— new shirts, ties, hosiery to tickle your fancy and to give you something really new.
ADLER BROTHERS