



NEWS 04 
NEWS STORIES OF THE YEAR Scholastic Staff 
Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review of the top news stories of the 2005-2006 school year. 
FACES TO REMEMBER Christopher Meskill and David Poe/I Take a sneak-peek at the important campus celebrities that you : should know. 
CAMPUS LIFE 14 
PERFECT STRANGERS Nick Kolman-Mandie Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK" and "it wasn't meant to be." 
Peter Hadley 
An overview of your future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 
ENTERTAINMENT 24 

CLUBBING AT NOTRE DAME Michael O'Connor 
Asampling of the opportunities -from service to athletics -available to help you do more than just homework. 
LET US ENTERTAIN YOU Nick Kolman-Mandie From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun. 
SPORTS 34 
SPORTS STORIES OFTHEYEAR Christopher Meskill 
Read up on the most news,vorthy stories in Irish athletics during the 2005-2006 school year. 

From the Editor _. . . . . . . . 2 Campus Watch. . . . . . . . 23 · 
Staff Editorial. . . . . . . . . . 4 Cribs ............. 28 
News Notebook. . . . . . . . 5 Good Eats . . . . . . . . . . .31 
Irish Vocabulary ........ 9 Point/Counterpoint . . . . . 40 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

Questions, Answers and Uncertainty­
vVhat is it that makes Notre Dame so special? Over the coming weeks, the single most frequent question you will hear is "vVhy did you choose Notre Dame?" Most ofyou will respond with facts and :figures about academic vigor or Catholic identity. Some will go on about tradition or legacy. Others may simply reference Charlie Weis and his winning ways. Three years removed from your shoes, I will offer a slightly different perspective. 
I can recall my last day of work as a waiter that summer. I was working a party with four other staff members, three ofwhich were headed off for their first years ofcollege. As the night wound down, the restaurant manager :finally asked where we were going to school. One responded Rice, another Cornell and the lastJ ohns Hopkins. Much to my amazement, when I uttered the words "Notre Dame," I got a reaction above and beyond the rest ofmy coworkers. The bartender, who was a year or two older, was a student at Michigan and couldn't hold back from putting in his two cents. He began with the usual hazing of the Fighting Irish, but soon after delved into serious conversation. "So, Notre Dame?" he said. "I'll tell you what, beyond the myth and lore of the program, Notre Dame is simply an awesome place filled with amazing people. So many people would give up everything to be in your shoes for the next four years." He smiled and wished me the best.
look for 
NEXT Notre Dame is more than a university. The name alone can transform a grin ISSUE to a smile. Notre Dame has possibly the strongest following in the country, 
in the 
and it is the people here that make it so great. Over the coming years, you 
FALL 
will build friendships that will shape you. The people you meet will challenge you -intellectually, socially and spiritually-and you will grow because of them. The real question then is "vVhy did Notre Dame choose you?" I'm sure they have good reason. Welcome to Notre Dame. 

Christopher Meskill, Editor in Chief 
One More Thing ... 
And now on for a bit ofshameless self-promotion. There is no better place to be on campus than in the basement offices of Scholastic in South Dining Hall. Scholastic is Notre Dame's biweekly campus news magazine, and it has been coming off the presses every year for the last 139. vVhether you were editor of your high school publication, a budding photographer in high school, or just want to get away from your annoying roommate, Scholastic is where it's at. Stop by and say "hello" at Activities Night, or send an e-mail to scholast®nd.edu. We'd love to hear from you. 

David Poell, Editor in Chief 
2 SCH0LASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
Vol.148,No.OI • SUMMER 2006 


SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors in Chief Christopher Meskill David Poell 
Managing Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Editor Mike Laskey 
Associate Editor Claire Sobczak 
Executive Copy Editor Regina Gesickl 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors Amy Meyers Julie Ruffin Jana Stewart 
News Daric Snyder, editor Kate Furlong, assistant 
Culture 
Michael O'Connor, editor Sarah Barrett, assistant 
Sports Megan Teigen, editor Brittany Lash, assistant 
Humor Mike Healy Joe Lattal Dave Saucedo 
Design Emma Daugherty, assistant BethAnn Visceglia, assistant Carolin Hubscher Diana Jones Victoria Lane Jane Lee Chris Sebastian Chris Tsui Kelly Wilkinson 
Copy Jessica Farmwald 
Photography 
Kristin Keve, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant Christine Burke Will Gartland 
Business Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER DESIGN REGINA GESICK) 
Disce Quasi Se111p1!1· Vict1m,s V'we Quasi Cras Moritzw1,s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAvo Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either· In whole or In part. may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scha/ast/c Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholast/c Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue.All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.Watch out Brady, Meskill's trying out for quarterback.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for correctfons made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Avallable back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date, Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. Tho opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 


Friends and Brothers in Holy Cross 

Seminarians Greg Haake, C.S.C., Pete McCormick, C.S.C., Stephen Koeth, C.S.C., and Jim Gallagher, C.S.C. 

vocation..nd. edu 
ANSWER~ THE GALL.vJ:;x.. 

Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
FROSH·O 
If you get tired of constantly repeating your name, dorm and hometown, try making up a new alias each time. 

FLEX POINTS 
They're like free money, for everything from Burger King to Starbucks. So much fun, you almost forget that your parents paid for them. 

NEW ROOMMATES 
Sometimes they turn out to be your best friend, other times, your worst enemy. Either way, play nice: They'll be taking your phone messages. 

MEIJER 
From CDs to paper towels, extension cords to throw rugs, this place sells everything you've ever wanted -and more. 

0 
PARIETALS 
Sure, they make gender relations 
awkward. But you won't have to worry about finding· excuses to leave a party early, and your roommate can't sexile you from your room for too long. Well, legally, at least. 
What Is ItAbout Notre Dame? 
A primer on Our Lady's university 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
''Notre Danze is Notre Dame." 
The previous statement has been used excessively in conversations about Notre Dame. However, there is truth to the statement. Notre Dame is a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with its single-sex dorms, parietals and Catholic identity. Yet, so many alums speak so positively about their alma mater. Many employers gush at the prospect of hiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than just that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate not just the mind but also the body and spirit. Although this aim of the university may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination of top-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Ministry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight-knit community that feels like a family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. There will be plenty ofparties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine. However, there also will be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will take up all ofyour time, especially considering this season's expectations. There are so many things to do but seemingly so little time to do it all. Yes, it's true: Life at Notre Dame may be overwhelming at times, but think of it as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think of it as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. If attending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream-come-true, think of what a Notre Dame education can provide for you. As an undergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture of where your education is taking you, but trust us; a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that is driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to monetary success. However, it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, especially given all ofthe available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span of opportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care ofitself. Look at Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78). How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? · Take advantage of Notre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. They don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting out of the library to exp~rience campus events and meet­ing potential lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for granted, 
because it all will go by faster than you would think. Notre Dame is Notre Dame, and you'll find out why when you arrive in August. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 
r 


Fight Song &Alma Mater 
The essential songs for life 4pder the Dome 
SCHOLASTICSTAFF
Many incoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and the Alma Ma­ter ingrained in their minds since birth. Perhaps your mother was an alumna and sung you to sleep with the Alma Mater. Or perhaps you grew up in the South Bend area and have attended numerous Masses at the Basilica or the Grotto. But for most freshmen, the first time they hear such songs will be during their first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an intro­duction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2010, you'll know as well as your own name. 
"Notre DameVictory March" (The Fight Song) 
Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre D_ame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates -brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball -in 1908. It first was performed on campus in the Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. Memorize the song now and you'll save yourself some flack from upperclass­men come the first home football game. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her gloiy and sound herfame, 
Raise her Gold and Blue 
And cheer with voices true: 
Rah, rah!for Notre Dame 
We will fight in ev '1y game, 
Strong ofheart and true to her name 
We will ne'er forget her 
And will cheer her ever 
Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 
Chee1; cheerfor Old Notre Dame, 
Wal,e up the echoes cheering her name, 
Send a volley cheer on high, 
Shake down the thzmderfrom the sky. 
T¥hat though the odds be great or small · 
Old Not1·e Dame will win over all, 
While her /()ya! sons go marching 
Onward to victoiy. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 
"Notre Dame, Our Mother" (The Alma Mater) 
The Notre Dame Alma Mater is per­formed at the end of every football game atNotre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was composed in 1930 by Joseph]. Casasanta, a 1923 ND graduate, in honor ofthe dedica­tion ofNotre Dame Stadium -the House that Knute Built. The lyrics were written by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., · a 1906 graduate and ND's presidentfrom 192 8-1934. The song also is sung at the end of every football weekend Mass at the Basilica, proving that, at the university that is home to Touchdown Jesus and We're No. 1 Moses, it is virtually impossible to separate religion and football. 
Not1·e Dame, our Motlm; Tende1; st1-o11g and t17te, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Gl01y's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And ozw hearts foreve1; Praise thee, Not1·e Dame; And our hemtsforeve1; Love thee, Not1·e Dame! 
..J 
;i 
J: 
5. 
Take a coffee break with 
one of your professors. You'll be amaz~d at how much more you will learn outside of class in a one-on-one conversation with your prof than you will in a classroom setting with him or her. 
4. 
Get addicted to Facebook. 
It's the best way to stalk that hottie from Frosh-0. 
3 "Borrow" dishes and 
• silverware from the dining halls until graduation. 
Better stock up for the year, especially if you don't want to make yet another trip to Meijer. 
2. 
Introduce ym1rself to the 
upperclassman across the hall. They're not as scary as they seem. 
·I Join Scholastic Magazine. 
• Anyone with an interest in writing or design, a cynical sense of humor and a love of caffeine is welcome. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 

SCHOLASTICSTAFF 
Academic Freedom and Catholic Character 

Janua1y 23 and 24, 2006, the
0 n 
Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., 
president ofNotre Dame, called a meeting that changed the way the university discusses the relationship be­tween academics and religion. Entitled "Academic Freedom and Catholic Char­acter: an Invitation for Reflection and Response," Jenkins' addresses -the first given to faculty members and the second directed at students -were a response to certain campus events that could be deemed incompatible with the Catholic nature of the university. The two events that garnered the most attention during the debate were the annual performance of"The Vagina Monologues" and the De­partment ofFilm, Television, and Theatre 
event known as the Queer Fihn Festival. 
"The Vagina Monologues" have been performed annually on campus since 2002 and have often been a lightning rod for criticism from individuals who feel that the play's frank and often graphic discus­sion of female sexuality has no place on the campus of a Catholic university. 
Differentuniversitydepartmentsspon­sored the performance each year, and proceeds from ticket sales went to S.O.S. -the St. Joseph's County rape crisis hotline -and the St. Joseph's County Y.W.C.A. -a local battered women's shelter. The Queer Film Festival has been 

l!) 
~ 
z 
~ 
l!> 
., ~ 
, ~ MR. PRESIDENT Fr.Jenkins replaced Fr. Malloy as president following the end of Malloy's term in June 
2oos. a part of Notre Dame since 2004. 
Fr. Jenkins took issue with the de­partmental sponsorship of "The Vagina Monologues," confining its performance to a classroom setting and banning 
lnsta-CollegeToYtn 
Student Government conducted a survey a few weeks before finals, seeking input from students about the "College Town" proposal. Assessing students' restaurant, retail and nightlife preferences, Student Government hopes to assist the university in the creation of "College Town," ortheNortheastNeigh­borhood Development Project. Initiated by students in tl1e School of Architecture and in the idea stage for years, this project follows the recent string ofimprovements to campus borders. In the pastyear, roadway improvements have alleviated some of the traffic issues in and around campus. A new entrance at Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard with columns and bronzed school seals, was finished in time for the 2005 football season. It marks the be­ginning of the dramatic tree-lined drive toward the Golden Dome. Additional improvements were made to Douglas Road, a street heavy with traffic to and from Grape Road establishments. After a nearly two month closure ofsections of Douglas, drivers learned to navigate the new "roundabout" at the intersection of Douglas and Juniper Road. Most of this roadway improvement is geared toward the August closing of the section of Ju­any fundraising for the event. He also expressed fears that the Queer Film Festival's name may appear to "celebrate and promote homosexual activity." For this reason, he asked that the title of the event be changed. Also, in an effort to gain feedback from faculty and students, Fr. Jenkins facilitated discussions, solic­ited e-mails and attended a performance of "The Vagina Monologues." 
On April 5, 2006, Fr. Jenkins issued a closing statement marking the end of this investigatory period. He stated that he was willing to allow the annual per­formance of "The Vagina Monologues" and the event formerly known as the Queer Film Festival since Notre Dame is a university and it must be willing to engage the issues of the outside world. To further discussion on the relationship between Catholic character and academic freedom, he formed a committee.consist­ing of faculty members and students, which he will chair. Still, just as "The Vagina Monologues" continues to cause controversy every year, it is doubtful that the heated discussion about academic freedom at Notre Dame is over. 
niper that bisects campus. 
This closure marks the first step in the creation of"College Town," proposed to be located south of campus, along Eddy Street, just one block south of Angela Boulevard. Architecture students par­ticipating in the South Bend Downtown Design Studio worked on the project, hoping to create a stronger sense of unity between the university and nearby neighborhoods. The project also aims to provide entertainment and retail outlets within walking distance for students. · 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 
----------------------{]f~~:@§ID@cr@olllij~:i,'i;§:@@ji]I§NEWS ·-----------------------, 
The Rise and Cost of DormTechnology 
lars access to laun­
W en Notre Dame students first dry machines and heard that cable televison and vending machines. wireless internet access would In some instances, 
be provided in the dorms, many were ec­these "Dark Peri­static at Notre Dame's attempts to advance ods" lasted up to a further in the technological realm. These month or more. · sentiments, however, were negatively af­The improve­fected by the baggage that came along ments, although with the improvements -namely, the much anticipated, "Dark Periods" in the dorms that occurred will bring about during the installation of new cable and further conse­wireless technology. quences starting During the 2005-2006 academic year, next year as well. university-hired contractors and workers The dorm room moved from dorm to dorm installing new telephone service 
wiring throughout the buildings' walls will no longer be lowed to use satellite dishes because of and student rooms. The resulting "Dark an automatic part of the room or tu­
the campus-wide television cable available Periods," described as "period[s] of ap­ition and will instead require a special in the dorm rooms. proximately 15-20 days as old wires [were] request and an extra $168 per semester, Even though returning students will be 
removed and new cables [were] installed," according to the OIT. In addition, if met with some changes, overall techno­by the Notre Dame Office of Informa­
a student does choose to purchase the logical performance is clearly on the rise tion Technology (OIT), caused students phone service, the student must provide at Notre Dame. to live and work without internet access, his or her own phone. Also beginning 
dorm room telephones, and Domer Dol-in the fall, students will no longer be al-
OrdinanCe Crashes the Party
Last year, Notre Dame dealt with campus parties, the ordinance imposes Common Council. Student Body Presi­an amendment to South Bend's heavy fines on offenders and potentially dent Dave Baron, who made improving disorderly house ordinance. The leaves them without a place to live. relations between students and the South 
amendment, passed by the South Bend In the fall, the ordinance surprised Bend community a central platform issue Common Council in the summer of 2005, returning Notre Dame students. Many during his election campaign, represented enables the city to·send notices of abate-saw the ordinance as unnecessarily students before the Common Council and ment to landlords and their tenants after strict. Students were also concerned that . invited Council members to campus to ~nly a single noise violation. The amend-the council passed the measure, which speak with student leaders. "This was an ment also adds excise-related incidents, clearly affects students, during the sum-issue we thought was important even be­such as citations for underaged drinking, mer months, when few students could fore the whole dispute with the passing of as violations to the tenant's code of con-participate in the debate. Throughout the [off-campus student noise] ordinance duct. Hoping to cut down on rowdy off-the year, some students living off-campus in August," Baron says. 
faced the conse-In the spring, the Common Council quences of the or-began to review the amendment, poten­dinance. Many of tially enabling change that will provide those cited were students with more leeway. Under new forced from their Student Body President I,,izzi Shappell, residence, includ-former vice president under Dave Baron, ing evictions at Student Government intends to continue Tu.rtle Creek, a enhancing students' relations with the popular apart-local community. ment complex. 
As the effects · of the ordinance were felt, student outcry grew. Stu­dent government actively worked to influence the 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 



CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
l · Meet student members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host a RECEPTION for interested first-year stud_ents: 
Monday, August 22nd 
1:30-3:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse Building 
(3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our web site at http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students also sponsors: 
Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo 
Solidarity Sunday 
CommUnity 
NETWORK Sessions 


Learn Your Irish Vocabulary 
A lexicon of key words you'll want to know 
MICHAELO'CONNOR 
AnTostal: The Celtic festival ofspring; 
a weeklong celebration hosted by the 
Student Union Board with fun events for 
students. Bengal Bouts: Annual student­

run boxing tournament that benefits charity. 
Bookstore 
Basketball: The largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament 
in the world, held every spring on campus. 
CoMo: The Coleman­
Morse Center, which offers study space and free soft drinks. 
D6, D2/D2000: Student parking lots, located near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. 
DART: The system by which students register for classes. Now on insideND, it gained the nickname from the days of telephone registration. 
Dogbook: The photo directory of Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional aid for finding dates to dances. 
lA ·C
D PM : The Marie P. DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center. 
The Huddle:Aconvenie~cestore 
in LaFortune Student Center. 
insideN D: Online system for ac­cessing academic information, such as semester grades, available courses and WebCT. 
JACC ("Jack") :JoyceAthleticand Convocation Center; home ofbasketball and .~~)ockeygames and pep rallies. 
O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall; home ofthe College ofArts and Letters. 
Parietals: Dorm visiting hours that permit mem­bers ofthe opposite sex to be present only during certain times of the day. 
Quarter Dogs: 
25-cent hot dogs sold in LaFortune starting at mid­

night. 
Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant, lo­cated behind South Dining Hall. 
Re'sLife: Office ofResidence Life and Housing; the most despised compound word on campus, it's where you go ifyou break parietals -or any other rules. 
The Roel<: Knute Rockne Memorial; an old exercise facility on South Quad. 
Ro Ifs: Newer, though harder to find, 
exercise facility, located on the east side~ 
of campus. 
The Shirt: Worn by most students . and fans at football games, proceeds from sales are used to fund many student activi­ties on campus. 
Stepan (Center): A hideous geo­desic dome building on the north end of campus (not to be confused with Stepan Chemistry Hall). 
Stonehenge: War memorial foun­tain at the south end of North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman orientation activities. 

SYR: Officiallycalleda "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. 

Touchdown Jesus: Officially known as the Word of Life Mural, a famous mosaic oh the south wall of the Hesburgh Library. 
. 

Turtle Creek ("TC"): Apart­
ment complex formerly popular among ND students; located very close to campus, was hit hard by local noise ordinance, but· still remains home to "Rally in the Alley," a large party at the beginning and end of the school year. __ 
WSND: Student-nin fine arts radio · station; specializes in classical music. 
WVFI: Student-run progressive radio station. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 


Make sure to look good and hard. The following faces belong to those people that you, as a Notre Dame student, should know. 
JENKINS: In April 2004, the Rev. ·John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the 
17th president of Notre Dame by the 
board of trustees. He is the university's 
third president since 1952. . 
Jenkins, 52, is a 1976 graduate of 
Notre Dame. He received a master's 
degree from the university in 1978, and 
he also holds two degrees in philosophy 
from Oxford University. 
Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross 
priest in 1983. He joined the Notre 
Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in 
the Department of Philosophy. From 
1997 to 2000, Jenkins served as the 
religious superior for the Holy Cross 
priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 
2000, he was named vice president and 
associate provost of the university. 
During the 2003-2004 school year, 
Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a 
visiting professor at the University of 
Chicago. 
Jenkins made himself the subject of much 
controversy last year when he initiated a campus-wide discussion on the relationship between academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. The discussion centered around whether or not to allow the continued presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Gay and Lesbian Film Event in a performance setting. Jenkins ultimately decided not to restrict the performances of these two events. 
WEIS: In December 2004, Charlie Weis was hired as the head football coach of the Fighting Irish, following the firing of Tyrone Willingham, who served for three years as head coach. 
Although Weis was not the university's first choice, he certainly fit the job description. Even before coaching his first game in blue and gold, he already had something in common with Irish legends Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy -a Notre Dame diploma. Yet, his Class of 1978 ring was not the only finger accessory that justified his hiring, as he had four Super Bowl rings highlighting his 26-year coaching career. 
Weis has studied the game from every perspective and at every level. He began his career as a high school coach in New Jersey before moving to the collegiate level with the University of South Carolina, and from there on to the NFL. Along the way, Weis woi:ked as a defensive assistant, offensive coordinator and special teams coach. ­
During his first year at head coach, Weis led the Notre Dame football team to an impressive 9-3 record and a place in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl. In addition to engineering Notre Dame's return to the Top 25, Weis saw his team set 47 individual and team offensive records. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., is beginning his eighth year as vice president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs, including Campus Ministry, • Student Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new responsibilities gave him a chance t;o "serve [the] students," a task which he admits is "at once daunting and exciting." 
Prior to serving as vice president, Poorman was an associate director of 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 

by national championships in fencing, women's basketball and women's soccer. White also has overseen four top-15 finishes for Notre Dame in the NACDA Director's Cup, a measure of an athletic program's overall ·success. In NACDA's final winter standings for 2005-2006, Notre Dame finished ninth. 
White worked as Arizona State University's athletic director for four years before coming to 'Notre Dame. He has served on several NCAA committees, on the executive committee 
-of the Division I-A Athletic Directors Association and as chairman on the Pacific-10 Conference's television and bowl committees. In 1997, White received the Alumni Achievement Award· at Saint Joseph's College, where he studied as an undergraduate. He then earned a master's degree at Central Michigan University and a doctorate at Southern Illinois University. He also has done postgraduate work at Harvard University's Institute for Educational Management. 
MALLOY:TheRev.Edward"Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served his final term as the 16th president of Notre Dame in 2004, a position that he Vanderbilt University. He also has received countless awards, including 12 honorary degrees. Malloy has served as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component of the National Institutes · of Health) and chair of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played a pivotal role in developing several _of Notre Dame's academic institutes. 
Perhaps Hes burgh's most distinguished · contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 15 U.S. presidential appoint­ments involving many major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatment ofVietnam offenders, Third World <level­ing the University ofDelaware. He made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and drove off this campus many times, [thinking,] 'I wonder ifl could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here.'' 
Now that he is here, Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to their first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to two more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-IO opponents, the first such occurrence in Notre Dame history. He also coached three consecutive 20-win teams for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
Brey's career winning percentage in 11 years as an NCAA head coach is .640. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assistant at Duke ­under coach Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse DeMatha High School in Maryland. _ D 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 

• 
.... _,......... ­
} . .,__-J>~,:~.,.,,. 
'
.ti~t~k, 
:..::.~:..:. r.::..:.; ~;;;;.;
;;tJ .\~Yt•;, 
I
Hj :, :~f0~\,:·_·\:_..t_,. I 
I 
,, 
~{~; .·· J,;;·•:;.;..k:.;;;_.•'·_..;,·:;..:,:c:.s:,-­

REGI NAGESICKI 
It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. "Where do I start?" you ask. Never fear. Whether you're a 
list-maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessities. When you arrive on campus, don't be discouraged by the looks_of youl". room. While they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring plenty ofposters, pictures and even Christmas lights to spruce up the walls. Some students buy rope lights or sham­rock-shaped lights for school spirit. 
Most rooms have only a single overhead light fixture and fluorescent lights over the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You also will want a desk lamp and maybe one small light to clip onto your bed for late-night reading before you doze off to sleep. 
Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not come with linens, so make sure you bring some bedding-sheets, blankets, pillows, 
---------!-,---­
l 1 
; 'l\._1 !1_.. 
.f; . ·~ l 
~ !. ~:__ i 
down comforters for the cold winters, etc. · -whatever will make you feel comfort­able. Body pillows are great for lying on 
the floor and studying. 
Some dorms have beds that can be 
bunked, while others have modular fur­
niture, which means you can bunk your 
bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. 
If your dorm does not have modular 
furniture and you would like to loft your 
bed, you can purchase a loft kit at a local 
hardware store, such as Home Depot, 
when you arrive. 
Ifyou do not have a handyman mov­ing you in, store employees often will as­semble a loft for a fee. Or, ifyou're feeling adventurous, you can even try building your own from scratch. But remember to bring a toolbox, complete with drills, wrenches and a hammer. 
To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. If space, money _or transportation is a problem, canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs are clutch. You also may want carpet or rugs to cover the hard :floor, which can get very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan Center during Freshman Orien­tation weekend, and usually you can find the right fit for your room at the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, and some can be found on the Office of Residence Life and Housing Web site. (Visit http://orlh. nd.edze.) 
Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap and shampoo to and from the commu­nity bathrooms. A robe or large towel necessary. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do it yourself or use St. Michael's Laundry Ser­vice. St. Michael's is an on-campus laun­dry service that will pick up your dirty clothes, wash them and return them for a fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, most dorms have coin-operated washers and· dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and dry one load, respectively). Make sure to bring rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul your duds to the laundry room, detergent, stain remover and a drying rack for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, if you do not want to lug those quarters around, you should think about purchasing Domer Dollars, which are credited to your student card. As an added incentive, each load oflaundry is 25 cents cheaper using the "dollars." . 
One of the most important decisions will be whether or not to bring a com­puter and, if so, whether to use a desktop or a laptop. Ifyou choose to leave your computer at home, you can use one in a computer cluster on campus, some of which are open 24 hours. However, some students prefer to write papers and e-mails from the comfort of their rooms, which makes a desktop computer an ideal choice. Many other students find it easier to bring a laptop computer to school. This allows students more freedom when working on papers or using the Internet, as they can relocate to their hearts' desire. 
There are many ways to connect to the Internet in LaFortune Student Center and 

. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 

Hesburgh Library if you bring a laptop. These campus buildings and all the dorms recently have been outfitted with wireless Internet connections. You may want to bring a wireless Internet card to make connecting outside the dorm convenient. For non-wireless computers, there are standard ethernet jacks available around campus, too. Additionally, if you don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer clusters. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Most stu­dents bring televisions for those much­needed study breaks. Beginning this fall, the dorms will be equipped with cable, but if you and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want to bring a VCR or DVD player. A CD player or iPod will provide some musical variety. Get in touch with your roommate t~ divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. 
Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan may come in handy for those few hot nights at the beginning and end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that mi­crowaves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for mak­ing popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It also is a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college food. 
Also beginning this fall, rooms will not come equipped with land line phones. For an extra fee, however, you can get one for your room. A cellular phone has many 
advantages, 
ing free long distance service and increased mobility. Cell phones are one of the easi­est ways to keep in touch with family, old friends from home and new friends around campus. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamously cold South Bend winter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mittens and a hat if you don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or pon­cho for rainy walks to class and football games. Remember to bring lots ofoutfits and shirts with your dorm color to show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers that are cheap and practical or under-the-bed plastic containers. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi-formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience with the football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
If your suitcases are stuffed, or if you forget something, do not worry. Although South Bend may not be a buzzing me­tropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University Park Mall is com­plete with a Macy's, L.S. Ayers, Banana Republic, Gap, Express and many other stores. And if you absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, mom and dad are just a phone call and a care package away. D 

What to Bring: 
0 For the room: alarm clock extra-long twin sheets lamp pillows hangers 
0 Random: gym bag backpack wallet keychain watch posters checkbook 
0 Possibilities: bike and lock computer TV refrigerator 
0 Don't Bring: microwave toaster candles 
What and Where to Buy: 
Carpet: Stepan Center Futon: The Futon Factory Plastic Shelves: Meijer, 
Target 
Bright floor lamp: Meijer, Target Loft kit: Home Depot TV, DVD player and DVDs: Best Buy School supplies: Office 
Max, Target Decoration: Pier 1 Imports, Target 
. 
~ 
:_ :. · Che'ck out '.'Cribs" on P:28 for.' s~ilie visuals that . , : _-. witi·guide ~ou•i~ your' decorating-endeavors.' , _ 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

DomeLights 
SUPPLIED BY DAN SARACINO 
You are ND 
You're a very lucky/ intelligent/ athletic/ talented/ well-rounded incoming freshman. Seriously. Way back in December, there were a whole lot of you. And now just the stron­gest, wisest and bravest remain. And you are one of them. Behold, the statistics from the applicant pool of the Class of 2010. 
Q&A 
With the Class of 2006 valedictorian 

Catherine Distler 
Catherine Distler, valedictorian of the Class of2006, graduated with a double major in anthropology and preprofessiona/ studies. During 
her undergraduate career at Notre Dame, Catherine earned a 3.94 ctmzttlative grade point average and took part in several service projects through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), including a nine-week simzmer service project with Mother Theresa's Missionaries ofCharity in Calcutta, India. She also conducted research on the impact ofHWIAIDS on children in the developing world. Scholastic caztght up with Catherine to hear about the secrets of her success. 
What is your favorite memory from your time at Notre Dame? 
On Thursday night during finals weeks, my friends and I typically went to Reeker's and then to the Grotto afterwards. I always enjoyed this moment because at night you have a great feel of the whole campus atmosphere. I've looked back on those hours very fondly. 
I 2,800 applicantsfor the 200~-2007freshman class (highest ever)3 484applicants admitted to the Class of 
' 2010I , 9 8 5 admitted students expected to enroll 
8 4 o/o p1·ojected percentage ofCatholic students l,3o/o projected percentage ofmi1zority students 4o/o p1·ojected percentage ofinter11ational 
students138 0 average SATscore ofthe Class of2010 3 I average ACTscore ofthe Class of2010 

What is your favorite way to procrastinate? 
I like reading tabloids and messing around on Facebook and Instant Messenger. Procrastination has been the name of the game senior year. 
What class gave you the most trouble in your four years? 
Calculus II freshman year. I struggled a lot and couldn't seem to get on the same page with the teacher. I haven't taken a math class since. 
It's hard for a student to balance work, extracurricular activities, free time and 
sleep. What's your advice on the best way 
to do so? Balance the time you spend with friends and your work. You have to work to maintain that balance on both sides. You need friends who keep you grounded and can give you perspective about life. 
What part of your experience at Notre Dame was most instrumental in forming who you are today? 
I would have to lump together everything I've done with the CSC. These activities taught me a lot about myself, the world and others so much that they've changed the way I've lived. I always enjoyed things that challenged the way I looked at the world. 
What is your favorite "brain food" to keep you focused while studying? 
When I'm reading I find that eating some­thing always keeps me up. Popcorn has always been a favorite of mine to munch on. When I was studying for the_MCAT I ate a Snickers bar before every test. The first time I did this it was during a practice test that I ended up getting a really high score on. I'm pretty superstitious when it 
comes to stuff like that. 
What are your plans for the real world? 
For now it looks like I'll be.avoiding the real world for the next seven years or so. I'm going to Johns Hopkins Medical School in the fall and after that I'd like to do a residency in pediatrics and conduct research in the discipline of infectious· diseases. 
Billy Joel says that if you try to be a straight-A student, you think too much, 
Thoughts? It depends on what you're ultimat_ely striving for. I always studied really hard and did it because I knew that some day I wanted to be a great doctor and knew that all th_e effort would be worth it. As long as you're doing what you're doing because you're passionate about it, by all means go for it. 
-David Poe/I 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 

Perfect
7 
Strangers
~-:-. . . -. -. . . --: . . r· -_. . .
L~·-------. ·---. . , -... .....,_..... ..:.. ....,.~-'-. . _:..__ __ 

NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
Welcome to your new dorm room. Behind your door you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that some universities house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as ofsimiliar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a su­percomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But, fear not. The indiscriminate pro­cess of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. While the resident as­sistant (RA) one door down has taken· the place ofyour parents and is there to help you witl1 your problems, you'll find that bang­ing on the wall and constant finger-pointing will getyou nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise which needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Your freshman year will perhaps be the first time in your life where you are given the resource and reason to adapt to life witl1 anotl1er person. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may tl1ink. \Vhat's more, the amount of influence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste ofyour precious summer time, so don't lose 
sleep over it. 
The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: Remember that your roommate-to­be is probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him or her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the few lucky if you find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love Kanye West and hate country. You'll own the same color ofshower sandals, and you'll have more fun playinginthe box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using tl1e computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
\Vhile rare, this situation is certainly pos­sible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number of friends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orienta­tion weekend. Use it as a chance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person, and for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to playvolleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on theXbox. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutely nothing wrong with notasking your first-year room­mate to be best man or maid ofhonor atyour wedding. In this instance, your roommate is nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. \Vhatever his or her person­
ality may be, it's not difficult to live with this 
person. In this scenario, you'll both make 
friends ofyour own, but have pizza and watch 
a movie together every once in a while. At 
the very least, you'll have a comrade to join 
you as you head to the dining hall those first 
few nights, or to throw a Frisbee on the quad 
with after class. 
You'll get to meet all ofyour roommate's 
friends, and you can introduce him orher to 
yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana 
in your own room will send you down the 
hall, to another floor or to another dorm 
for your best friends. The more efforts you 
make, the more people you'll meet, and the 
more likely you are to make those lifelong 
friends. · 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 
Sadly, some roommates just don't get . along. You may verbally argue on several 
room-related points, or your roommate 
could be so inconsiderate that you actu­
ally look forward to parietals. Whatever 
the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your 
RA for advice. The worst rooming situa­
tions can warrant room changes, but this 
scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an es­
pecially strong impetus for making friends 
outside the room, and a good reason to 
get involved in extracurricular activities. 
Don'tlet the personyou share a room with 
taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned room­mate, your first year at Notre Dame will be among the greatest of your life. Take heartin the fact thatyour future roommate has tl1e same reservations you might have about living with someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be considerate and, perhaps most important of all, k~ep your mess confined to your side of the room. D 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 


Compiled by Peter Hadley 
Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a brief introduction to some of these time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
"THE BANNER" The Vermin of Carroll Hall may live all the way across the lake, but that doesn't stop them from showing off their spirit in a big way -and by "big:' we mean 30 feet by 90 feet. 


WelshFamily: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The dorm orga­nizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game­show style competition that pits dorms against each other,· part of a spirit week full of events centered around dorm pride. Welsh Fam raised several thousand dollars and organized a service trip to New Or­leans in response to the Hurrican Katrina disaster. For this and their outstanding spirit, theyreceived the Women's Hall of the Year Award for 2005-2006. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough 
Chariot Race, for which each dorm builds its own chariot to win fame, Ben-Hur style. For their White Wedding Dance -with themes such as "Pirates" and "Mafia" -themen ofKeough nominate one 'Roo from each section to compete for the title of Captain Keough. Keough, along with Welsh Fam, is known for dominating Late Night Olympics, a night of competitions for charity among the halls. 
McGlinn: With a mascot close to the Leprechaun's heart, the Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for their Casino Night, where they host a night ofgambling and games. Each Shamrock invites up to five friends, all of whom can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money. All proceeds from the event (real money, this time) benefit the Catholic Worker House. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on the West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride when they march loudly toward pep rallies and in signature ~vents, like the Miss ND pag­eant. O'Neill co-sponsors an event witl{ Lyons called "Recess" where a number of playground games bring students back to their middle-school years. 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 

Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former univer­sity president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s, when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off-color talent show on one the home football weekends each year. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh Wild Week in the fall, involving a series ofcompetitive and not-so-competi­tive events, cul­minating in a Mr. ND Pageant and the Walsh Hall 
Fall Frolic. The Frolic is a dance for which the Wild Women dress up as Britney­esque Catholic schoolgirls. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which polishes off the week of dorm activities. The building served as housing for nuns until 1975 and is famous for their patio and accompanying covered walkway. 
St. Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest building now used as a dorm, although it 
wraps). Zahm's football team also defeated their ri­val, Keenan Hall, in the 2005 men's interhall champi­onship. 
Keenan: Con­nected to Stanford Hall by the Cha­

Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual Father-Daughter Weekend in the spring, during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame. Co-hosts of the Winter Car­nival, the Cavanugh Chaos work with Zahm to bring a petting zoo and other kid stuff to campus. Each winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their Snow Ball, an annual formal dance held in LaFortune Student Center. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahm­bies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquema­da (a ceremony mysteriously kept under 
p el of the Holy Cross, the Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. The revue is a three-night show that the Knights put on every February. A sellout crowd attends this collection of original student comedy. Keenan is also host to a hugely successful mud volleyball tourna­ment in the spring. They were voted as Men's Hall of the Year in 2005-2006. 
Stanford: The men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North Din­ing Hall. The Griffins once were known as the Studs, but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. They also put on an Iron Grill.contest where contestants from each 
or Stedsmen, hold an annual event called 
Founders Week, which includes a 2-on­
2 basketball tournament and a charity 
shootout. All proceeds from Founders 
vVeek go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's 
has an end-of-the-year dance on a yacht 
in Chicago that strolls Lake Michigan. It 
is also home to a weekly Spanish Mass. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake 
from the west edge of campus, Carroll 
Hall offers quite possibly the best view of 
all the residence halls. The Vermin enjoy 
a close-knit environment, as Carroll has 
the fewest residents of any dorm. "A Car­
roll Christmas," featuring a tree-lighting 
ceremony and performances by university 
choirs, is the hall's signature event. The 
hall's "GO IRISH" banner, made out of 
80 bed sheets and 10,000 staples, can be 
seen from as far away as the Grotto. If 
you've been assigned to Carroll, a bike 
is a must, unless you want to be late to 
class every day; this dorm is located far­
thest from the rest of campus. Although 
the number of residents may be small, 
the men of Carroll have enough heart to 
compensate. 
dorm compete to grill the best steak. 
Every fall they host the Benefit Bash, a 
late-night event, with proceeds support­
ing an orphanage in Chile. · Farley: Farley, located next to North 
Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm 
since ND went coed in 1972. Last year the 
hall hosted an event called "vVhat would 
you do for a Purdue Ticket?" Contestants 
humiliated themselves and performed 
crazy stunts in order to win football 
tickets to the ND away game. Pop Farley 
week is perhaps the best-known event of 
the Finest. This celebration, which cul­
minates with a dance, features a different 
activity for the Finest and their dates each 
day of the week. 
Breen-Phillips: The Babes ofBP raise 
money each year for diabetic patients with 
their Meal Auction. Students and faculty 
members bid to eat with campus celebri­
ties who have volunteered for the event, 
including football quarterback Brady 
Quinn. The Babes' 2005 auction raised 
$6,500 for the American Diabetes As­
sociation. In the late winter/early spring, 
Breen-Phillips provides relief from the 
cold with its Beach vVeek. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17


The 
At pep 
Siegfried: The Ramblers ofSiegfried compete annually against Knott in the Flanner Cup, a week's worth ofevents, in­cluding tug-o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co-sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tourna­ment where sections in the dorm con-
rallies, the Jug­gerknotts can be easily spotteq in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an afternoon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. Knott also hosts the Justin Brumbaugh Basketball Tournament in honor of a former resident. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed 
section competitions and ends in a dance, where one girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. PW dominated on the interhall football field and won last year's women's championship, played in ND stadium. 
Pasquerilla East: PE is the home ofthe Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. The troupe's history includes productions of "Godspell," "Guys and Dolls," "Damn Yankees"· and "Into the Woods." This past year's play was "Footloose." PE also is proud of its annual intradorm event, the PyrOlympics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and cos­tume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth 

PW or P-Dub, this dorm is home to the floors are numbered five through eight, to Purple Weasels. In the spring, Queen differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. Week, an intradorm event, fosters inter-
south 
pation 'of a dance a beach-themed dance each fall, complete 
QUAD 
on South Quad. with grass skirts and Hawaiian shirts. 
Fisher: You'll Morrissey Manor: The building isn't know Fisher by just its residents' home, it's also their the gigantic green mascot, the Manor. You'll know Mor­'F' on the front of rissey men because they often wear togas the building. Ev­and paint themselves black and yellow, the ery spring, Fisher dorm colors. Morrissey is the second larg­hosts the Fisher est men's dorm on campus, located directly 

Alumni: Conveniently located at the in­tersection ofGod Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host The Calling, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni Hall loves its hockey team, whose games feature costume themes and songs. Alumni's biggest rival is its immediate neighbor, Dillon. The rivalry will be re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon will compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 students, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally, which is hosted before the first home football game of each season. The annual Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers and ND cheerleaders. The Big Red also hold the 'Stache Bash' in the spring. The Dillonites all grow mus­taches to raise money for charity in antici-
Regatta, a campus­wide boat race on St. Mary's Lake. Each fall the Green Wave holds a 50-hour roof­sit, during which students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. Fisher holds events through­out the weekend ofthe roof-sit and make fun of the residents stuck outside on the roof. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end of South Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 vol­leyball tournament in the spring. It also is the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. Pangborn hosts the Phox Phire, a bonfire where the effigies of the mascots ofopposing football teams are ceremonially burned. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall, in honor of a fresh­man resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons hosts across South Quad from Fisher Hall. This fall the Manor will host Tomatino, an event modeled after an ancient tradition in Spain where hundreds of people throw tomatoes at each other in a gigantic food fight. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall ofthe school year (arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Hoedown, a semiformal dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus­wide karaoke and dance competition, the Badin Spring Breakdown. Contestants are judged on accuracy, style and performance. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. D 

Do you see yourself on our staff? 

MAYBE YOU SHOULD. Whether you're interested in photography, writing, design or business, we're interested in you. You need something to do outside class and we need new talent to produce Notre Dame's biweekly newsmagazine. Coincidence? You decide. 
For information on joining our staff, send us an email at scholast@nd.edu or check out the Scholastic booth at Activities Night. 
SCHOLaSTIC 




• 
' 
11M~d~11no;WMATjL-: -~ -' 
~2006~ ' 
VENDORS WILL INCLUDE: 
~ 
~ Carpet and Tile ~ Bed Bath & Beyond ~ Circuit City ~ Beyond the Wall Posters 
STEPAN CENTER HOURS OF OPERATION: 
~ Thursday 8/17 Noon-7pm ~ Friday 8/18 10am-7pm ~ Saturday 8/19 10am-7pm ~ Sunday8/20 Noon-5pm~ \ 


AUGUST 28TH-SEPTEMBER 1ST 
~2000~ 
EVENTS WILL INCLUDE: ~ MONDAY:·FREE BAGELS ON THE QUAD 
.~ TUESDAY: ACTIVITIES NIGHT (PRESENTED BYTHE SAO) I ~ WEDNESDAY: MOVIE NIGHT ON THE QUAD ~ THURSDAY: AC0USTICAFE IN THE BALLROOM DURING 

LAFORTUNE OPEN HOUSE ~ SUB MOVIE: DAVINCI CODE; THURS-SAT DEBARTOLO 101 ~ FRIDAY: HYPNOTIST RICH AIMES IN WASHINGTON HALL ~ SATURDAY: OPENING YEAR CONCERT: LEGENDS @ 6PM; 
GEORGIA TECH GAMEWATCH TO FOLLOW , 
I 
~ 
brought to you by lhe sfudenl union board. sub.nd.edu 
CA 

It's about that time, kids. Put away that cheesy high school yearbook, throw aside your graduation cap, and get ready for the best four years of your life. Some call it a mind-qpening experience, some call it a break from reality, and some call it the only time in life when lewd debauchery is not ~nly accepted but also encouraged. 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication.This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, ~ipp needs to know about .it. You report, Gipp derides. 
You may be asking what a typical Gipp tip is. Well, there's no exact definition, but try this for a rule of t!:iumb: If one of your friends does something so asinine that you know any true friend would keep it quiet, it will make a good tip. Let's give some examples. Your roommate skips class to drink half a case of Natty Lite ___: don't tip Gipp. Your roommate skips class to participate in some extracurricular activity in the bushes behind Main Building -by all means,-tipp Gipp. 
And remember, Gipp loves to print photos. One loyal tipster submitted the picture shown at the right. Did he print it in the very next issue? You betcha. 
The Gipper would love to give some examples of past classic tips, but unfortunately we can't go into too much detail in this issue. After all, Mom probably will peruse through it after you're finished. But come this fall, you all will learn by example Gipp's unique M.O. 
Anyway, enough self-promotion; the Gipper feels a duty to let you know the things they don't tell you in the welcome packet. 
You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 
Let's start with the beer. Traditionally, the ND bigwigs had a beautifully-crafted "if we don't see it, it's not happening" policy that let all of us lushes toss 'em back like candy as long as the dorm room doors were shut. But over time, that glory faded away. Now, it's technically illegal to consume hard liquor on campus, so be careful. (But what isn't technically illegal?) 
Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a· pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. du Lac, the official campus rule book) 

can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college hoping to get closer to a special someone after 
12 a.m. on weekdays or 2 a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone ·get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 
Like a lot of things in college, the problems you'll have with the aforementioned issues will depend largely on your resident as­sistant (RA). RAs are the seniors who, either because they didn't have enough friends to live off campus or wanted to save Daddy a few bucks, will live amongst you in the dorms to make sure you're at least attempting to follow the rules. The degree to which RAs actually give a crap varies greatly, but in general ladies get the shaft when it comes to power-tripping RAs, which, in the case of some RAs, apparently means "Retentive, Anally." In any case, Gipp advises you to befriend your RA ASAP, because it can't hurt to have him/her as a friend if you ever appear in front of the Supreme Irish Disciplinary Court known as Res life. 
That should be all for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start-your time here as he is to ruthlessly embar­rass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of GippLand, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some QDs, complaining about Reslife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date to NDH or SDH. Sound fun? · 
Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even by fall break. And if you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. 

FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 23 
,---------------------lll§lmJ~~ti FE 

MICHAELO'CONNOR 
IA<:AbEMIC 
Scholastic choice: SIBC 
One ofthe largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student Intemational Busi­ness Council (SIBC) is the only one ofits kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-woi-ld prnfessional expei·ience and intemational devel­opment. Eveiy smmnei; the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents around the world on intemational sunnner intemships and teaching positions. 
ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB 
One ofthe many clubs within a major; aims to establish connections between the stu­dents and faculty within the department. 
ETHNIC 
Scholastic choice: Italian and German Clubs 
These two are just a few ofthe many eth­nic/language clubs on campus. The Italian Club's activities include opportunities to prac­tice speaking Italian, cooking classes, trips to Chicago's Italian neighborhood and two sports toummnents each year. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer"Jest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
WABRUDA 
A relatively new club for African-American males on campus. Part support group and part leadership organization, Wabruda's events range from professional develop­ment workshops to a "Brain Bowl" for 
YOUR GUIDE TO 
LU I 

AT NOTRE DAME 
Whether you want to continue your involvement in student government or meet other Demers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club for everyone.Take a look at a few of your choices ... 
ENTREPRENUER CLUB 
A group of individuals who plan to start or have already started their own businesses. The "E-Club" travels to national confer­ences, sponsors campus speakers, guar­antees internships and job opportunities for club members, and prep;ires members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
INVESTMENT CLUB 
Provides students of all majors with the opportunity to manage an investment portfolio of over $300,000 of real money. Weekly presentations, discussions, and semester trips to the Chicago Board of Trade make this club vital for establishing connections. 
local grade school students to barbeques on campus. 
LAALIANZA 
One of the largest ethnic clubs on cam-. pus, formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates and entertains students through programs that include Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
Celebrates Asian-American heritage through fellowship, service and events that showcase the unique values ofvarious Asian cultures. 
NDESIGN 
Gives members the opportunity to explore the world of Graphic Design through speakers, field trips and various intern­ships. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUBS Include Pre-Law, Dental, Veterinary and Medicine; bring guest speakers, admissions representatives from post-graduate schools to campus, and provide resources to learn more about the fields of study. 
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
Fosters a sense of community among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
HAWAII CLUB Works to share the culture of Hawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. This club is open to all students. 
TEXAS CLUB 
An outlet for ND Texans to celebrate and learn about Texas pride and culture. The club sponsors various social activities and campus related events, as well, recently helping to bring country artist and Texan, Pat Green, to campus for a concert. 
24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 

and provides all the necessary gear and MEN'S WATER POLO
!ATHLETIC 
training for participants of all levels of Consistently one of the top performersScholastic choice: experience. in the Midwest. Witl1 the official season Bengal Bouts in the fall, team members travel to places 
The 76-year-old Bengal Bouts boxinglour­EQUESTRIAN TEAM such as Florida for their more relaxed nament offers an opportunity for 1mn"'with Takes weekly lessons at stables located spring season. Notre Dame also has a varying levels ofexperience to compete to raise about 15 minutes from campus. Riders Women's Water Polo Team. moneyfor Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. of all levels are welcome to join and do Ifyou are into boxing and happen to befemale, not need to own a horse. The team par­FIGURE SKATING CLUB check out the Women '.I-Boxing Club, a recently ticipates in competitions sponsored by the Founded in 1999 and was recognized as formed group. Intercollegiate Horse Show Association the athletic club ofthe year for 2001-2002. 
throughout the year. The team skates against varsity and club WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB teams, and they have competed at two Named the 2000-2001 athletic club ofthe SAILING CLUB national championships, achieving eighth year. They compete in road races in the Practices on St. Joe Lake on campus place in 2000 and seventh in 2002. area, roughly 10 per year, and sponsor two and at another nearby lake in Michigan .. big events: the Aloha Run and the Relay Members race throughout the Midwest CYCLING CLUB. for Life, on-campus races that raise money and the nation. Races mountain bikes in tl1e fall and road for charity. racing in the spring. 
POM SQUAD SKI CLUB A group of 14 women from Notre Dame FIELD HOCKEYTEAM Competes in both giant slalom and sla­and St. Mary's dedicated to enhancing the· Started tlrree years ago to offer both men lom events in Michigan, vVisconsin and spirit ofNotre Dame through the perfor­and women of all skill levels a chance to Canada. mance ofdance routines. The Porn Squad participate. The team practices four days 
performs at pep rallies, basketball half­a week in the spring and fall and competes CLIMBING CLUB times and campus-wide and dorm func­against other teams in the area. Sponsors rock-climbing trips to places tions such as the Notre Dame Activities like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky, Night and the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
I. . .. 
MARTIALARTS INSTITUTE raphers to help with spreads. The time
SPECIAL 
commitment is very flexible and although 
INTEREST 
Scholastic choice: University Bands 
They include the marching band, several 
.concert bands,jazz bands, and brass and penussion ensembles. Ryouts for the bands are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at the University ofNotre Dame, St. Mmy'.1-College and Holy Cross College. 
SWING CLUB 
Currently has about 50 to 7 5 members who meet weekly for two hours of"East Coast" swing lessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but there are student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS & COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
Hope to raise political awareness and participation among university students. Members also frequently campaign for local candidates. 
Teaches the unique techniques and applica­tions of Vee Jitsu Ryu Jujitsu and Chung Do Kwan Tae Kwon Do. Students who begin as freshmen can reach the rank of black belt in both arts by the end of their junior year. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, THE ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS AND THE PASQUERILLA EAST MUSICAL PLAYERS 
A few of the groups that put on student productions each year. 
HARMONIA 
Female a cappella group with about 15 members from the ND community. 
GLEE CLUB 
Notre Dame's all-male choir. It has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels extensively in the 
U.S. and abroad. They plan to tour in tl1e Caribbean next summer. 
THE DOMEYEARBOOK 
Always looking for writers and photog­experience helps, it is not necessary. 
BAGPIPE BAND No prior experience is necessary, as new members are provided free bagpipes for four years and given lessons. The band performs on football weekend mornings in full dress (i.e. kilts), as well as at other university and dorm events, particularly around St. Patrick's Day. 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE All-inclusive group that works to improve race relations and interaction at Notre Dame. It encourages increased communication between different racial and ethnic groups through informal weekly small group meetings and special events. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 
LIFE 

the fall and host speakers and other events 
SERVICE 
Scholastic choice: CSC 
The Notre Dame Center for Social Con­cerns offers a number ofvery popular service trips over fall and spring breaks, providing opportunities across the coimt:Jy, from Florida to Appalachia to D.C., to better understand s_ocialjustice issues. 
CIRCLE K 
Offers around 20 projects covering a wide range ofinterests, from playing with ani­mals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center. This is the club to join ifyou can't decide what kind of service you want to do. 
C.A.R.E. (CAMPUS ALLIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION) 
A student-awareness group aimed to prevent rape and help those affected by rape and sexual assault to deal with the overwhelming consequences. They spon­sor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week in 

I: 
IRECIGJOUS -_: 
Scholastic choice: The Basilica Groups 
The Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart has anznn­ber ofminist:J·ies open to new members. Their choirs include the Folk Choi?; the Liturgical Chob; the Women '.I-Liturgical Choir and the Handbell Choir. The Basilica is always look­ingfor new readers, Eucharistic ministers and acolytes (altar servers). 
IRON SHARPENS IRON 
An interdenominational, student-led Bible study that seeks to foster solid Christian relationships and to challenge and encour­age students to grow in their faith through 
LEADERSHIP/
PROGRAMMING 
Scholastic choice: SUB 
Student Union Board (SUB) planscampus"­wide events, like movies a11d concerts. Each class has a council that also plans events. Many ofthe candidates each yearforstudent council president are former SUB officers. Joining SUB is agreat way to get involved in student governmentfreshman year. 
during Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April. 
C.A.S.H. (COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS) 
Works with local community centeFs and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and Eng"'." lish-language instructors to the Hispanic community. 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
Dedicated to raising awareness ofhunger issues and raising money to support hun­ger relief efforts worldwide. The WHC annually raises about $20,000 for dona­tions to hunger organizations throughout the world with the Lunch Fast, in which students sign up to give up one meal a week from their meal plans. 
FIRSTAID SERVICESTEAM Serves as the first level of the emergency · medical system for events and athletics on. 
fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical teaching and prayer. · 
BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY An organization open to all Christian traditions that focuses on fellowship, faith-sharing and Christian living. They hold weekly Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, shared meals and other activities. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
A Catholic men's organization focused on service to the community and loyalty to the Church. At Notre Dame, they are dedicated to the principles of the nation­wide order through many activities, the 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL . .. . 
Provides peer a.dvocates to students fac~ ing c;lisciplinary hearings in the Office of. 
Resident Life and Housing. 
· .FLIPSIDE A student-run organization whose pur­pose is to program weekend events that ·do .not involve alcohol, such as bowling, ice-skating and trips to Chicago. The events are open to all students and hope 
to provide alternatives to drinking on campus. . . ·. . · 
campus. Team members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 
TAKETEN 
A pr~gram initiated by the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies that is open to all students interested in teaching techniques for non-violent conflict resolution to local South Bend grade school students. · 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY Notre Dame's chapter ofthe national group which works each year to build a home in the South Bend area and sponsors the annual "Shack City'' fundraiser. 
most notable being their Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for charity. 
FOUR:7 
A Catholic faith group based on small group sharing and larger worship sessions. Retreats and speakers _add to the faith experience. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY RETREATS 
Notre Dame offers many retreats but· the Freshman Retreat is geared toward the issues and experiences of early col­lege life. There are opportunities to lead retreats as an upperclassmen, as well as attend the popular NDE (Notre Dame Experience). 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Ihcludes·c1ass councilswhichpl:m events for· each· class, the Hall Presidents' Council; aStudentSenatewithmembers 
. . elected from each dorm and the Executive 
Staff, which inclµdes the Stu,de.nt Body 
·. President. Student Govenment is the best way for student voices: to be heard and for student planned events and idea§ to become realities .. ~ CAMPUSAFFAIRS,COUNCIL . 
·· Has one representative from each dorm, also serves as a voice for students. D 

26 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 


Mon. 8pm-10pm Big Bands 
,.Jil~~,iij~'!h1f#~1~
er1ence;mecessary-,:;
:e:.-·.-<,,...-:-'": ,: ;i,-':'-,:: :,,,.;.,, .,.-,, ,'.'::.. ,,,_,__-,_..,,_,,.,,::,:,. _. l:s• 
unities;fo1f,adu~:i'nce
-~~-~iltiil,\fJft 
{~i~;ij~i(i!\:\:;~}i: 

Scholastic tutors you on the most important class you'll take at ND 
CLAIRESOBCZAK
The reputation you automatically gain from your affiliation with your dorm (sorry boys bound-for Zahm); your roommate who must have crash-landed from outer space; your hor­ribly boring microeconomics professor. These are but a few elements of one's freshman year at Notre Dame that can­not be controlled. But put down that transfer application, because what is most essential to enjoy­ing your freshman year is within your grasp. It's where you crash after a night at Turtle Creek Apartments, where you laugh hysterically with your friends about that awkward encounter in the dining hall, and where you attempt to study but your friends always distract you. Yes, your dorm room is indeed the most central feature of the freshman experience, and how you decorate it can set the tone for the entirety of your first year. You will soon find tl1at rooms fall into different categories within your section. The party room, the 4.0 room, the Domer room, the ridiculously filthy room and the movie room are just a few examples ofthe many abodes you will encounter. It is up to you to determine into which category your room will fall. But regardless of tl1e future reputation ofyour room, some es­sential elements ofdecor can save the most hopeless quarters. 
First and foremost, do not miss this memo -buy a futon. Every successful room has a futon. In that first nerve­racking phone call you make to your roomie-to-be, make sure to discuss tl1e futon. Buy it during Frosh-O, split the cost, do whatever you must to incorporate this necessary piece into your decorating endeavors. A futon serves as an ideal spot for your friends to crash after a night of fun. So once the futon issue is settled, you can stop worrying if friends will come to hang outin your room and start focusing on tl1e fun decorations. For girls, color­ful bedding and lots of pictures in funky picture frames are key. Posters with Ani­mal House or beer themes set tl1e mood for fun in guys' rooms. And Christmas lights and ND paraphernalia will create a homier atmosphere in any student's room. A TV with a DVDNCR player is essential, as are speakers for those much­needed study breaks. 
Depending on how your roommate's tastes match with your own, consider the possibility of a themed room. Tropical tl1emes bring cheer to those bleak winter days, while regional themes can make home seem a little closer (Texas and Jersey natives, take note). 
Whatever you choose to do with your room, don't forget to be considerate oftl1e preferences of your roommate. Decorat­ing your room is one of the first oppor­tunities you will have to seize the college experience and bond with your roommate. Aside from tl1e limits ofmodular furniture and low ceilings, your room is a blank can­vas; make it your own. . 
28 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 
~'ti#ft.®u · · .. 
r·pn:::: -'?·.~· ..l •·:-··-~~·.. -~. 
_.,;,:~. ·i;:~-~~i\.:.:.0:~~ . 
r/ .,,, . , 
\ . ..r· 
f 
SLEEPING INTHE CLOUDS {top) Pasquerilla East Pyros maximize their space by lofting their beds. For those dorms that do not have modular furniture, it usually is possible to purchase a loft kit. 
CELL OR DORM? (middle) First impressions can be deceiving. This empty room at Breen Phillips is full of decorating genius waiting to happen. 
GOOD TIMES (right) Sorin residents sit back and relax in their comfortable common room. GOING TROPICAL (above) Residents in this room attempted to ward off the coldness of South Bend's winters when 
r 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 29 
decorating their room. COMFORTWITH A YI.EW (opposite) This 
. 
\
Walsh common room makes the most of its bay 
. ;; \, ' . ---~ 
windows by offering plenty of comfortable seating. 

PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 
I 
Published Since 1867 Serving the Notre Dame Community 
SCHOLaSTIC
--------------·---­
.i 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus
:i 
13 ISSUES 3S DOLLARS SENDTHIS FORMAND Foreign Subscribers: add I 5 dollars. $35.00 PAYMENTTO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
PLEASE PLACE ME ONYOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
OR 
NAME:-----------------­
ORDER ONLINEAT 
httpsl/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI 
ADDRESS:----------------STUDENTSHOP/ 

MICHAELO'CONNOR AND REGINAGESICKI 
ometime during the semester, the dining hall's spicy sea
S
nuggets will send you running, or crawling, off campus 
to the nearest eating establishment. Or perhaps late night Reckers just isn't making your sweetie feel special enough. Bet­ter yet, maybe the parents are in town and want to fulfill their biological duty to feed you. Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your tastebuds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but man is it good. The Whitehouse Diner; nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a former waitress' girth, is the place to be after. parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu, and breakfast is the house specialty, served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 
MIKADO 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki coun­ter where the chef will prepare your food right in front of you. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. Ifyou like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. Ifyou like sushi, come here to get it fresh. 
. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus dining fare. 
LULA'S CAFE 
Location: 1631 Edison Road . Prices: Coffee from $2 to $5, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus, making it a popular study spot and hangout for students. The coffee is always fresh, and the specials change daily. Try one of Lula's seasonal offerings or go for one of the cafe's new twists on old favorites, such as the Brie grilled cheese. Take some time to check out the eclectic decor as you enjoy your meal. 
THE VINE 
Location: I03 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? The Vine, in down­town South Bend, has a great atmosphere and even better 
food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta 
· dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best of all, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 
CJ'S PUB 
Location: 417 North Michigan Street Prices: Burger platters from $6.45 to $10.95 
C]'s Pub is famous for one thing: its burgers. They are enor­mous, delicious, prepared to order and can be topped with BBQ sauce, Canadian bacon, grilled onions and four types of cheese. Their projector screen and excessive ND paraphernalia add to the experience. It's crowded on football weekends, but is a fan­tastic way to experience great food and the ND culture. 
NUEVO TIJUANA 
Location: 1116 South Main Street Prices: Traditional Mexican food from $5, entrees start at $9 
An authentic Mexican Restaurant, Nuevo Tijuana serves up fresh and delicious Mexican originals and favorites from tacos and gorditas to sizzling fajitas. In addition to the food, the interior is quaint and vibrant, covered with historical l\!Iexican figures which add to the atmosphere. Try it out ifyou are look­ing for a more traditional "South of the border" experience than dining hall quesadillas. 
ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 
Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoy­ing the excellent (and inexpensive) pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto is not to be missed. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 3_1) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $ I 0 
l\!Iost newcomers -and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade, and go well with the coffee. Also, Elia's is cheap, making it a great eat for those on a low budget. D 
i 
! 
I 
\. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 
' ' . 
-~--.c--~------~~~-­

LaFortune Information Desk 
'& Box Office 
~ . 


-Free-Pool for ND Students! 
. . '7 . A (Get cues and balls from the Info Deslrnn the 1"floor) 

,l 
ii_. 
'1 
12 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL
No one had greater expectations ! heading into the 2005 foot­I ball season than Charlie Weis. 
i
,, Coming off three Super Bowl wins with the New England Patriots, he was cer­tainly justified in his overconfidence. The changes he made, however, shocked the rest of the college football world. In one season, Weis turned junior quarterback Brady Quinn into a serious Reisman contender, junior Jeff Samardzija into one of the best wide receivers in the country and Tom Zbikowski into possibly the fiercest defender in football. The results -simply unbelievable. In 2005, the Fighting Irish finished with a 9-3 record, including an appearance in a coveted BCS bowl game. But in the beginning, there were few who believed in the Weis era. To the · chagrin ofmost Irish fans, sports analysts like Mark May and Lee Corso predicted that the Irishwould begin the season 0-6. However, the Fighting Irish dispelled any reasonable doubt with their performance at Pittsburgh. The Irish started the season with a scary first quarter, down 10-7, but rebounded in the second quarter with 28 unanswered points. The Irish offense set the tone that day at Heinz Field, winning 42-21 over the 2004 Big East champs. The next test for the Irish was ofgreater significance -taking on regional rival Michigan in the "Big House." History· stood in the face of the Irish, as the last time Notre Dame defeated the Wolverines on their turf was during the first Clinton administration. But if there is anything that fuels Charlie Weis, it is a challenge. A key performance by sophomore run­ning back Darius Walker led the Irish to a potent running attack, but the strength of the Irish was in their defense, holding the Wolverines to just one touchdown. Un­fortunately for Notre Dame, the victory was not all sweet, as senior wide receiver Rhema McKnight injured his ankle and would miss the rest of the season. When the dust had cleared that Saturday, the Irish emerged from Ann Arbor 2-0. After two road wins, the football team 
l,!SGE:10i!P.(SiJ11G SPORTS·--------------------­
Reawakening the Echoes 
finally returned home for a match against another undefeated local advei:sary -Michigan State. The student body got their first look at the invigorated "Irish offense, featuring passer Quinn and his twin-tower receivers, Samardzija and senior Maurice Stovall. Quinn did not dis­appoint the Irish faithful, passing for 467 yards and five touchdowns. Despite the offensive fireworks in the home opener, Notre Dame found themselves tied with the Spartans at 38 a piece at the end of regulation. The Irish failed to capitalize in ­overtime, putting only a field goal up on
F'~'::;=:·-~-1';T','T·'·T•,•c••1•··,-;-·· 
..,...,. ------~··--·-,__,_....,........_,_.,
,,-·~-·--······-·~· ---· '. ·1 · • 

-
·I _, !__ ., -· .. ,. _+• ,i . .L..__:_. .;j 
the board. Michigan State, however, was able to punch the ball into the endzone for a touchdown off a pitch from quar­terback Drew Stanton. The game ended 44-41, and Notre Dame watched as their unbeaten season came to a crashing end. 
Notre Dame avenged their home loss on the road in Seattle against their former coach, Tyrone Willingham, the following weekend. The Irish dominated the game from start to finish, racking up 3 6 points in their third victory ofthe season. But the road warriors were far from finished when they traveled onto Purdue to battle Head Coach Joe Tiller and the Boilermakers. The Irish continued to pound on their opponent's defenses with a 49-28 victory over their in-state rival. 
After a bye week, the Irish took on the No. 1 team in the nation at home. (The summary of the USC-ND game is on the following page.) Despite the heart­breaking nature of the loss, at that point, no one could deny that Notre Dame had returned to prominence in the college 
i: b 11 ld
1oot a wor
• • • . , 
After gomg 4-2 m their first SlX games 
(as opposed to May and Corso's predicted mark of 0-6), ~e Irish simply ~ominated the rest of their schedule. Qumn's p~ss­heavy offense averaged 40-plus pomts against their final five opponents -BYU, Tennessee, Navy, Syracuse and Stanford. While their was some flare du.ring the Stanford game when the Cardinal took a late-game lead, the rest of the season simply demonstrated that Notre Dame is back to being the Notre Dame ofold. The players knew it, the students knew it, the fans knew it, and, most importantly, the BCS Committee knew it. On bowl selec­tion day, the Irish were selected to play against Ohio State in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl on January 2, 2006. _ 
After a month ofpreparation and hype, the Irish came to the desert town ofTem­pe, Ariz., to battle the Big Ten superpower. The game was a classic match of good offense against good defense, and as the old adage goes, good defense won in the end. Unfortunately for the Irish, the loss to Ohio State extended their bowl winless streak to eight games, which dates back to 1995 when Notre Dame fost to Colorado in the Fiesta Bowl. 
With one more year left in Quinn's collegiate career, many are expecting the Irish to make a run for the title: Yet only time will tell if this is the year the Irish reawaken the echoes and hoist a national championship trophy in the air. . 
34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 


¦

f:f.1§rnt0 )1:i'.:.!-ijjj[@ SPORTS 
ND Baseball Runs Off Miracle Streal< 
strikeouts. 
well-extremelywell. For exactly Throughout the streak, Notre Dame 
one month, the Fighting Irish swept three-game series against such Big were perfect, running off23 straight wins East adversaries as Pittsburgh, St. John's in the longest winning streak in NCAA and Rutgers. Meanwhile, the Irish fans set Division-I baseball for 2006 and the lon­attendance records, flocking to see players 
gest in the program's history. The Irish like dual-sportathleteJeffSamardzija try climbed to a No. 8 ranking by the end of their hands at extending the streak. the streak with a 33-8 overall record. Unfortunately, all good things come to 
The team was led by senior first base­an end, as Bowling Green outslugged the man Craig Cooper, who hit an astound­Irish, 11-8, on April 26 at Notre Dame's ing .476 with nine homeruns and 27 runs Frank Eck Stadium. Their last loss before 
batted in. Meanwhile, pitchers like Wade that came on the road against George­Korpi thrived. Korpi carried an unbeliev­town on March 25. D able 0.26 ERA with a 4-0 record and 44 
April treated the Irish baseball team Women's Tennis Reaches No. 2 Rank 
Notre Dame? A tennis school? Per­season, winning handily, 7-0. FromJanu­son 19-1. Catrina also took All-American haps tl1is sounds odd to most old­ary 28 to March 24, Notre Dame ran off honors in singles for the season. time alumni, but Notre Dame has 16 straight victories before losing tl1eir Notre Dame finished the regular season 
21-1 with a No. 2 ranking-the best in established itself in tl1e collegiate tennis only match of the season to Vanderbilt, the history of the program. Setting this circuit, and there is no better evidence of in a 4-3 nail-biter. 
sort of a precedent, the women's tennisthis than the women's 2006 campaign. The featured storyline of the season has program can only expect more great
been the success of twin seniors Catrina
In late January, Notre Dame began its things in the future under Head Coach
and Christian Thompson. Competing in 
season with a match against Ohio State Jay Louderback. D
doubles, the Thompsons finished the sea-
at which it set the tone for the rest of tl1e 
GAME OFTHEYEAR 
-. .--,­
THE TROJAN WAR 
'
.Y:i ~ 
i
NOTRE DAMEVS. USC, 
October 15, 2005 -~ 
n October 15, 2005, the USC
O
Trojans marched" into South 
Bend carrying a 27-game win­ning streak and the undisputed No. 1 ranking in the nation. Notre Dame, how­ever, was not going to let the Trojans leave South Bend with such distinctions without a fight. First-year Head Coach Charlie Weis emphasized the significance of the game when the Irish marched out in green jerseys. From the moment the Irish put on those jerseys to the last second ofplay, the Irish fought in what can best be called "The Trojan War." Notre Dame battled to a first-half lead before falling behind late in the game. On the legs of quarterback Brady Quinn, the Irish took a last minute lead. To the pain of the Irish faithful, USC's Matt Leinart managed to squeeze his way into the endzone -with some assistance from Reisman-winner Reggie Bush -to end tl1e game, 34-31. D 

BOXED OUT Junior safetyTom Zbikowski fights his way past the USC defense to score on a punt return. Zbikowski starred on special teams and was named a second-team All-American last year. 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 
i ' . --­


I ­
'! 


I 
! 
' 
'You're not dating, but you're not just hooking up.You're Notre ating:' ___:,overheard student 
"What's that?" 
"Scholastic." 
"What is it?" 
· -law school student 
"You have to get the freshmen before they discover the ice cream 
-student in South Dining Hall 
for example, 'Fifty Cent' ... wait, wait, it's 'Fiddy Cent,' 
-English professor 
"I can't get with you, because you'll fall in love with me, and it will 
-Corby's patron to female student 
CLOVER OBSESSION 
What exactly is the thought process that goes into a decision like this? "Will one of you take this razor and shave an actual clover into my head?" "Oh sure.This seems like a well-thought out, completely sober choice. I will assist you with it." 

SCHOLAST@ND.EDU 
I 129 Years AgoI An Ideal Freshman 
0 n September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel [ ... ] to those who begin their college life this year." The freshmen will be "placed in the midst of com­rades hailing from all parts of the country [ ... ] They have good and bad qualities, both of which may exercise some influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship of such as may be distinguished for their virtue and in­telligence." Like the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the duties of life, he must follow faithfully the prompt­ings of his good inclinations and banish at once those of the bad." The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to arrive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Meghan Gowan 

36 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 



. . . 
. . 
Stop by our booth at Student ·..• Activities Night in -September! 
•f:/z.ecl< out m.u.fji.c 1tevi.ewfj a.11.clt/z.e ca.m.pu.!1 ~ce11e a.t vVvvvv.nd.edu/,__, mindset 

--. ­
' . 

Is there 
anything 
· to do around 
here? 
RYANGREENE AND NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
elcome to South Bend, the
W
city that sleeps. A lot. If 
you're looking for a lively, ex­citing town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth ofentertaining possibili­
. ties, campus life can more than make up 
I; 
for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide of what to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 
• Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Opened in the fall of2004, the PAC is one ofNotre Dame's newest buildings in an ambitious campus-wide construction plan. The center features five different theatres, including the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and an innovative 100­seat pipe-organ theater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from each other. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost of$64 million, the PAC is the new home ofNotre Dame's Depart­ment of Film, Television, and Theatre. The new theaters absorb some of the student performances traditionally held in Washington Hall in addition to serving as a venue for outside acts. 
• NDCinema 
You can catch the cream ofHollywood, independent and international films at the PAC every Thursday through Saturday night. Recent films have included "Ca­pote," "BrokebackMountain" and "2001: A Space Odyssey," and each feature is 

A "KEY" VENUE Umphrey's McGee is one of the many bands that has performed at Legends in years past. 
preceded by a short student film. Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this project is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. 
• SUB Movies 
The Student Union Board shows mov­ies every Thursday through Saturday night for an entrance fee of $3. While it also shows older, second-run films, it tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like "King Kong," "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" and "Syriana." 
• Student Film Festival 
In January, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are showcased for a week in the state-of­the-art Browning Cinema at the PAC, courtesy of NDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the films before theyhit the indie film-festival circuit. This must-see event promises controversy, art and even a few laughs. 
• Theatre 
From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame's got it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, and student plays also have been performed in the PAC. A special feature at Notre Dame are performances featuring the professional English troupe Actors from the London Stage in their unique rendi­tions of Shakespeare's plays. Every year, the Pasquerilla East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits have included "West Side Story" and "Footloose." A variety of other shows are hosted through such additional groups as ND Opera, The­N ot-S o-Royal Shakespeare Company, and St. Edward's Hall Players. 
LIVE MUSIC AND MEDIA 
• AcoustiCafe 
Every Thursday night at LaFortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mic night for student solo 
· musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you just want to check out the original music 
· produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. If you're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign­ups each week. 
• 
Concerts and Shows . Nota heck ofa lot ofbands pass through South Bend, but you can count on Notre Dame to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included U2, Pat Green, Guster, Better Than Ezra, Black-Eyed Peas and stand­up comedy by David Spade. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, Student Activities' "The Show." Also keep your eye out for concerts at Legends -anall-ages univer­sity-run club and restaurant south of the stadium -and at the J.A.C.C., ·courtesy oflocal radio stations. Past years' offering have included John Mellencamp, Cake, and J asmi Mraz. 

• 
CollegiateJazz Festival 


This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts 
38 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 



who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. •NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television airs four weekly shows, including "TheMike Peter­son Show" -a live sketch comedy show created entirely by Notre Dame students -and a news program. NDTV's news program highlights campus news, sports, entertainment events and more. Tune in to campus cable for the goods. 
ARTS AND LITERATURE 
• Notre Dame Literary Festival 
For one week each February, the Student Union Board hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Formerly known as the sophomore literary festival and going into its 3 8th year, it has featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce· Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series 
The Creative Writing Program, a gradu­ate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number of writers throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal ofpress, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's calendar of events at http://www.nd.edztl-englishlcal­endar.html. 
• Snite Museum CHICAGO 
The Snite is open Tuesday through When the Bend becomes too monoto­Sunday, and admission is free. It tends nous, consider a day or weekend trip to the to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled Windy City. Freshmen aren't allowed cars treasures, although many students and first semester, but public transportation professors attend the opening ofthe spring has you covered. The South Shore Line exhibit where the MFA and BFA students can take you from South Bend Airport showcase their work. and approximately 2 hours later drop 
you off on Randolph Street in downtown STUDENT ACTIYITES Chi-Town. From there, un-South Bend 
• Student Union Board (SUB) activities await, like lunch at Gino's Pizza, 
'While South Bend isn't exactly an enter-shopping on Michigan Avenue, or hanging tainment hub like New York or Chicago, out at Navy Pier. SUB does a good job of bringing outside ,. -··· ·· -······ ··· ·· --·· ·· · -· ···· ··-­shows and· speakers to campus as well as , D,l.v;. ! sponsoring various on-campus activities. If all entertainment options fail, you're · Divided into several branches, SUB not · goingtohavedoityourself.Thoughthislist only provides weekly movies and occa-may seem extensive, it's almost ~teed sional concerts but also multicultural and i thatyou'regoingtohitafewgrayanddismal intellectual activities·in addition to student : Saturday evenings here in South Bend. But services like prize raffles, organized trips, : Notre Dame isn't so much about the things and final exam stress relievers. : you do as it is about the people you meet. 
• Flipside : Wheii your calendar is empty and the snow 
Though looked down on by some as ! is piled up outside, there~ nothing like an an "anti-drinking" organization, Flipside i impromptu dorm-room luau or something does a good job of providing consistent · as simple as hot chocolate with your new studentactivities, usually on the mellower •_friends.Freshman year can be the best of side. Expect a few video game and board : times and the worst of times, but a little · game tournaments and prize nights, as , creativity can go a long way. It can save a lot well as organized trips to local mini-golf ofmoney, too. and bowling establishments. While not Of course if all else fails, and you find · the premier source of entertainment on i yourself spendingyour Fridaynights star­campus, Flipside can be counted on for ' ing at the wall, you can always applyfor a planned events nearly every weekend. 1 job at Scholastic. . 
FRESHMAN ISSUE 2006 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 39 

POINT/COUNTERPOINT i::v"" ,:-'.·•,,'J DI N I NG HALL CHOICE '------'-~
1 
While you might think that two dining halls lo~ated on the same campus can't be that much differ­ent: think again. North DiningHall (NDH) has 
been the place to eat since it was established in 1957, and it 
is a convenient three-minute walk from many North Quad dorms. · 
Both dining halls have signature dishes, but NDH seems to provide more of the memorable ones. Whatever your palate desires, you can be sure to find what you're craving at NDH. In this dining hall's first room, you'll find a pizza 
outh Dining Hall (SDH) was built in station that allows you to design your own personal pizza, 1927, making it the oldest dining hall on a feature that SDH does not offer. You have your choice campus. The interior of SDH includes two of dough, cheese, sauce and toppings. The chefwill 
wings (one with a mural of the "Last Supper"), both then cook your creation before your eyes in just five 
ofwhich have wooden ceilings outfitted with chandeliers minutes. 
that make you feel like royalty when eating. SDH's food is If pizza is not your delight, you can move 
consistently fresh and tasty in a first-class facility, making this on to the next room. The middle room 
the best dining hall on campus. ofNDH is home to "Homestyle 
There is daily variatiori among SDH's differently themed Favorites" and features a variety of sections, making it difficult to get tired of this dining hall's such protein-packed essentials food. For instance, the American grill might have burgers and as turkey, meat loaf, roast beef regular fries one day, and then offer Philly cheesesteaks and and chicken, all ofwhich rotate on seasoned fries the next. The Italian section is known for its a daily basis. Ifyour tastes are a bit _ authentic-tasting sauces, and also boasts delicious meatballs more eccentric, you can take advantage and different types ofpastas. One ofthe trademark features at of the Italian and Chinese stir-fry stations. SDH is the Far Eastern (Mongolian-style) stir fry, where Both allow you to mix your favorite choices yoli are given_your choice of vegetables, meats and ofmeats, vegetables and unique sauces to create sauces to be grilled by a chef. There also is another a fabulous grilled dish. The room also includes the chef readily available to cut you slices of such "Lighter Side" foods, which offers amyriad of dishes for meats as turkey, ham and sometimes steak. those diners that desire healthier meal options. Other themes available are Mediterranean, For those ofyou who constantly crave American and Middle Eastern, European, Latin and 
Mexican food, the final room is the perfect fit. Here you'll South American. For those with · : .,. 'f{i;i_q_ :a1i the hamburgers, _hot dogs, chicken patties and fries healthier eating habits, SDH _··• you h~ed. NDH also periodically. offers chicken wings, 
------. .. ., ,. I • • 
provides a great vegan menu with ,. ..,, ,,-··--, ., ~~yo,u can cover them with your chmce ofsauce: buffalo, 
· __ , \ ___. ,,_.i:eriyal4 or BBQ honey. The Mexican section allows you to make your own tacms and burritos with a great variety of such toppings as guacamole, sour cream and red sauce. 
SDH also offers a better Grab 'n' Go Throw in the salad bar, soup station, sandwich station (take-out meals in a paper sack) than NDH for and dessert station that have more variety (including ice those who don't have enough time to sit down to cream flavors) than SDR It's easy to see why NDH is eat in-between classes. They offer more snacks (such clearly the superior spot for grub. It may not look as as granola bars) to go along with the sandwich or wrap pretty from the outside as SDH, but the food is ofyour choiee. SDH also constructed a welcomed addition what counts. 0 in 1998 -Reckers. It is the only 24-hour restaurant on cam­pus, and it serves as a great hangout spot where you and your friends can satisfy your midnight munchies. Some favorites include the Reckers burger, made-to-order sandwiches and personal pizzas with toppings of your choice. They also have 
r I 20 different varieties of Freshens smoothies Remember that the food in SDH gets even better during i football weekends, when the lights are dimmed and candles are 
i 
lit. For those living on South Quad, consider yourselves lucky. 
I For those living on North Quad, the walk over to SDH is
II 
~-worth the trip. 0 
40 SCH0LASTICPOINT/COUNTERPOINT 



BRANCH OUT. 
ITUDE,NT ACTIVITIES 
BAD.ND.EDU 


DOMER 
DOLLARS 
WHAT ARE DOMER DOLLARS? 
Domer Dollars are a debit account of supplemental money linked directly to your University ID card. Domer Dollars allow you to purchase just about anything on campus without carrying cash. 
Accounts can be opened through the Card Services office, either in person or throu9p/ the mail. For added convenience, yo~rnay open an account, make deposits, .and review your purchase history and balaic'e on the 
. . .,.,./ 
Web. Money may be deposited by cash, check, Visa, MasterCard, or Diners Club card. 
~~ 
-_Visiefhe Card Services site at 
~­
WWW._ nd.ed u/~ ca rdsvcs 
/USE DOMER DOLLARS HERE! 
_/,.,,., 
/ Vending and Laundry (Domer Dollar users enjoy a 25 cent discount on both washers and dryers.) 
Hammes Bookstore 
{Get your books and supplies.) 
The Copy Shop 
Sorin's 
The OIT Solution Center 
Hesburgh Library Copy Center 
Riley Digital Imaging Studio 
University Hairstylists 
ND Food Services locations 
food.nd.edu -Meal Plans, 
Dome~ Dollars· and Flex Points 
PRESORTED STANDARD U.S. Postage PAID Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 2
DEPOSIT FORM 
Mail in for advance processing before you obtain your ID card, or visit our Web site after receiving your ID card. 
Student's Name: 
(Last, First, Middle Initial) 
Student's University Identification Number: 
(ndlD Number, 9 digit number beginning with '90') 
ND E-mail Address: 
Phone: 
Deposit Amount (Minimum Deposit $20): 
Make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame. 
Please Mail To: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box 1129 Notre Dame,. IN 46556 
Parent or Student Signature Date 
Domer Dollars account holders agree to the terms and conditions of the debit plan agreement. A print copy of this agreement is available in the Card Services Office or can be viewed online at www.nd.edu/-cardsvcs. 

Domer 
II rs 





