TO ENGINEERING students:
Graduating Engineers are
in a great
offered a great future, place to live
by Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in Southern California
Your
Lockheed Counsellors will be on the campus to talk with you on...
Wednesday March 26
They will discuss:
Your salary at Lockheed.
Your field of engineering at Lockheed.
Your training opportunities at Lockheed-and at major universities in the Los Angeles area.
Your chance for quick advancement at Lockheed.	-
The better living conditions for you in Southern California.
The vast range of recreational opportunities in Southern California.
Contact your Placement Officer today for an appointment with your Lockheed Counsellors
.. P. S. Be sure and ask your Lockheed Counsellor how Lockheed, can help you get an ' . advanced degree in engineering.
Riley’s Column
Editor:
As is my usual Friday afternoon custom, I read the Scholastic today. This issue had something missing, namely the column of William Riley.
I always enjoy reading the Riley column for he generally discusses issues that are of interest and importance to the student body. For example, the lionor system that has frequently been i discussed, the dining hall, and student government.
I hope that budget troubles or other . reasons (illness, etc.) will not prevent % the regular appearance of this column in the future. His column fills a need —that of provoking discussion if nothing else.
Phil Anderson
Editor:
The absence of Bill Riley’s column in the March 14 issue of the Scholastic was noticed by all readers of the magazine. I hope that it is only a temporary thing for Mr. Riley has had much to say with regard to the student situation here at Notre Dame and indeed his view has been the most foresighted and realistic.
I realize that the issue was much smaller and no doubt there is much cause for that but if anything is to be cut, I certainly don’t think that it should be such a fine and worthwhile column as that which Mr. Riley presents every Friday. I hope that by the time the next issue is due that the situation W will be changed.
Many thanks to Mr. Riley for a just presentation of the situation as it exists. He has certainly voiced the majority of the students’ opinions.
John E. O’Brien
Editor:
Having been a fervent reader of one William Riley, I was very much dismayed because the aforementioned Mr. Riley’s column did not appear in the past issue. Whether one agrees with Mr. Riley or not, we can at least admire his stand with regard to the honor system and other student affairs.
I hope that we will be able to look forward to many more of his excellent columns in issues to come.
Mark McCabe
The elimination of Bill Riley’s column in last zveek’s issue was something ^vhich could not he helped. In the fu-' ture. however, it will appear every week without fail.—Editor
A wonderful case of “dual personality”
ARROW GABANARO
GABANARO is
amazingly comfortable either way, thanks to Arrow’s revolutionary ARAFOLD collar.
Fine, washable rayon gabardine. Wide range of popular colors.
ARROW —-------------->■
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
March 21, 1952
3
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
Operator and foreman check raw materials on a production control board which records every operation in a Du Pont plant.
Ch« E’s at Du Pont
Work as production supervisors prepares chemical engineers for jobs in management
[ THIRD OF A SERIES ]
The last issue of the Digest described the broad opportunities offered chemical engineers in research and development at Du Pont. Now let’s look at the opportunities in production supervision.
In this important phase of plant operation, Ch. E.’s and others are responsible for investment in plant facilities, supply of raw materials, supervision of operation and maintenance, cost and shipment of finished products, as well as personnel relations, training and safety.
George B. Bradshaw, Jr., B.S.Ch.E., M.I.T. ’40, assistant superintendent, inspects a unit used in ammonia synthesis operation.
Normally, chemical engineers enter production supervision by reason of preference and special abilities. Their first step depends on which of ten operating departments they work in. For example, in one department they follow a training program as student operators. In another, training in. a plant laboratory familiarizes the engineers with processes and products.
After the training period, the men are given supervisory responsibili
ties, usually starting as foreman. At this level they meet problems like these:
1.	Occasionally, in a still connected to a sulfonator by a pipe line with a single valve, theproductdisappeared, and residue increased. The supervisor’s study of control data showed that small amounts of gaseous sulfur trioxide were venting into the still causing decomposition of the product. His recommended installation of a positive pressure block in the pipe line eliminated the difficulty.
2.	A high temperature batch reaction process was revised to increase production of a critical material. For safety, adjacent reactors had to be shut down as work on each unit proceeded. The supervisor planned maintenance and batch schedules to min-imizecostlydown-timeandre-trained personnel for the new process.
In solving such problems, supervisors have an opportunity to use all their knowledge and ingenuity. Equally important, they acquire the
Inspecting nylon filaments during manufacture. They are made by extruding molten polymer through spinnerets under pressure.
background and varied experience that prepare them for advancement to responsible positions in management and administration.
NEXT MONTH—The fourth article in this series will deal with process development—to many engineers the most interesting part of plant operation.
Conrad R. Graeber, Jr., B.S.Ch.E., Lehigh ’51, control supervisor, examines flow sheets for the manufacture of methacrylates.
SEND FOR your copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 40-page book describing opportunities for men and women with many types of training. Address: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
Reg. U.S. pat. off
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast

The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Easter vacation in just two and a half weeks . . .
In Retraction
We’re sitting down to a large slice of humble pie this week. We’re afraid our column of last week has raised the ire of many on campus, and justifiably so, for this boy-columnist was way off base in making personal derogatory remarks, and especially the somewhat bald state-W ment that Mr. Rocky Marbiano would get some seven-hundred dollars for his guest appearance at the Bengal Bouts last Monday eve.
This statement was made after we received some information on Marciano’s
By Jack Hynes
World, which was intended, I suppose, to give us another jolt and to help make life unbearable.
The charming sender, who is to be complimented on her lovely choice of stationery, asks us if we are “bitter.” Well, doll, a lot of people have asked us that of late, and to them and to you we rejoin—no, doll, we are not “bitter.” It’s just that we had an unhappy childhood, and that, coupled with a severe and plaguing vitamin deficiency (riboflavin, I believe) makes us act sometimes in a contrariwise fashion. And doll ... I don’t think you’re a bit “connivin’,” not really, anyway.
Walshite Jerry Costello, composer and lyricist of the forthcoming student musical and big tenor sax man for Gene Hull’s aggregation, might be leaving any day after graduation for the wilds of deepest, darkest, dankest Africa (where the skies are not cloudy all day).
Jerry received a letter a few weeks back from the eastern hemisphere’s Sherman Billingsley inviting the Jersey music lad to take a position with his jazz group at the Imperial Bar on Buffalo Road in British West Africa.
Young Costello in weighing the merits of the offer is inquiring into the union’s situation in that particular sec- ■ tion. The'only hitch is that he is being asked to double on the bongo drums and he’s not too sharp in that department. Any bongo drummers on campus who might be interested in steady work can contact Costello or write direct to the Imperial Bar, Buffalo Road, B.W.A.—
Bottom of the Week
. . . midsemesters in just a few days.
proposed visit, information which was not as factual as we had thought it was. Instead of doublechecking the rumor we slapped it down in print, a prime journalistic sin, and discovered later that we were quite in error.
Marciano, of course, did not receive any payment of any kind for his services as honorary referee, and even, we understand, demurred from accepting any expense money for the trip.
We, therefore, take time out to extend our sincerest and humblest apologies to Mr. Marciano for any discomfort we might have caused him; and to the Knights of Columbus and the Bengal £ Bout committee we voice both our apologies and our congratulations—congratulations for making the 1952 edition of the Bengal Bouts even more of a success than its predecessors.
Champions All
And while we are on the matter of congratulations, we might record a few for all the 1952 Bengal Bout contestants, both victors and vanquished, for providing some really fine scuffles for a really worthy cause — the missions in India. All gave unstintingly of their time and efforts, both in the many weeks of training for the bouts and in the final contests in the Fieldhouse. Would that professional boxing had the same enthusiasm, tenacity and integrity; but that’s neither here nor there, is it?
A Touche From St. Mary's
gh We received in the Scholastic office "This past week, a little billet-doux from one of the Women of the Western
You are invited to accept a trial private lesson FREE
Pupil-Party-Dances
Every Thursday — FREE
to prove how quickly you can learn to dance at Arthur Murray's
Yes, we’re so sure we can teach you the secret to dancing popularity in almost no time that we are offering a trial lesson FREE. Thousands have become sought-after partners through f Arthur Murray’s exclusive Magic Step Method and you can, too! But, * hurry... take advantage of this wonderful, short-time offer now. Come in to the studio and amaze your friends at your very next party by being an * expert dancer.
ARTHUR MURRAY Schoo/ of Dancing
120 E. WAYNE ST.	DIAL 2-3339
March 21, 1952
5
MARCH 21
COLFAX—Quo Vadis still running and will be held over at least one more week.
PALACE (to Mar. 26)—The double bill that was scheduled to start here two weeks ago finally makes it this week, but if it never showed you wouldn’t have missed much. Okinarva is still the story about the crew of ,a destroyer who perform assorted acts of bravery during the invasion of Okinawa, and who are elected to stick around after it’s all over to watch over the place. Pat O’Brien is the skipper. The First Time is the story of a young married couple preparing for the first time for an event that happens to most married couples. They sure do get panicky over a simple little thing.
MARCH 22
WASHINGTON HALL—Kind Lady with Ethel Barrymore.
MARCH 2?
STATE (two days)—Just in case anyone’s interested, it will be Prehistoric Women. and Two Lost Worlds, a couple of real jim-dandies that ought to attract the lesser intellectuals (you know, “those guys” in Washington Hall).
MARCH 25
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Fifth session of the Marriage Institute. Father Sheedy will speak on “Moral Problems in Marriage.”
MARCH 26
AVON (to April 4)—.4 Girl in Every Port is not 1) a picture glorifying the United States Navy; 2) a very funny picture, which it is supposed to be. Groucho Marx carries most of the thing along, trying at all times to attract your attention away from the plot, and succeeds for a while. But Groucho isn’t a magician and his leer does get tiring after about the fiftieth time. Marie Wilson tries to pretend she’s an innocent young thing by walking around like a third grader in a semi-coma, and shows clearly she never got beyond second grade. William Bendix is in there somewhere, too.
MARCH 27
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Sixth session of the Marriage institute. Father Sheehan will speak on “Masculine and Feminine Psychology” and Mr. and Mrs. William R. Dooley and Mr. and Mrs. Russell J. Barta will engage in a panel discussion on “Practical Problems of Married Life.”
I ory p
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
SORRY
IF WE MISSED YOU
BUT...
If you were unable to get together with our representatives, we’d like you to know about the excellent openings available to qualified engineers, mathematicians and physicists. Our brochure points out and pictures the history, development, progress, organization, expansion, facilities, programs, benefits, and opportunities open to you at Bell Aircraft, a leader in the Research and Development of Supersonic ' Aircraft, Rocket Power Plants, Guided Missiles, and Electronic and Servo-mechanisms equipment.
(Aeronautical Engineering Training , NOT Required.)
MAY WE SEND YOU A COPY OF "ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES"
WRITE
Mgr. Engineering Personnel
P. O. Box 1	BUFFALO S, N. Y.
Vol. 93 March 21, 1952 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victums Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE.............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER..............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fulmer, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suvvalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns,
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: Comes that time of the year when the lads around here are preoccupied with next year’s rooms. See our feature on page 17 for the wrong way Lyto do it. And our thanks to Junioi- Bob r Zier for posing.
—Photos by Bob Huddleston
Don't Scoff at Student Government
Following our policy of printing both sides of a controversial question, this week we present two opposing plans for a reorganization of student government (see pages 20-21). We hope you will read carefully the articles by Jim Garvin and Paul Zalecki, attend the debate between them scheduled for April 3 in the Law Auditorium, and take a definite interest in this subject, which is of great importance to everyone.	'
The tendency at Notre Dame is to scoff at the “politicians” and their efforts, to minimize the Council’s importance and laugh off their efforts as useless when any plans depend upon Administration approval. However, a good, efficient student government is a must if conditions are ever to be changed.
You don’t expect Father Cavanaugh to drop around to your rooms some evening and ask you what’s wrong with the University, what improvements you would propose, and what rules you would modify, do you? But Father Cavanaugh would listen to representatives of a well-organized and student-backed government. if it had constructive, logical measures to offer.
We urge you to support the plan proposed by Zalecki when these plans are put before the student body for ratification. Although both plans clearly recognize the needs of the students, this plan combines simplicity with definite improvements over the present system, notably a student-faculty-administration board which will be constantly in session. With its two councils, interhall and interclub, it provides direct representation for the student in his two principal social structures, his hall and his clubs. It provides machinery for fast, efficient Jiandling of all student activities, plus a direct, constant voice in the ear of the administration and faculty, which under the present system is almost non-existent.
.Garvin’s plan, on the other hand, sacrifices efficiency for organization, in our opinion, and calls for a lineup of a cabinet, a senate, commissions, bureaus, and committees, which would stagger the imagination of a New Dealer. It is good in theory, but in practice it would require almost full-time public servants for its execution.
This is not an attempt to explain either plan, for that is done admirably by the two gentlemen in their articles. We merely point out that we think the one program could succeed while the other would fall under its own weight. Read the articles yourselves, and please let us hear your opinions on the subject.
One thing is certain. The present setup is not adequate in serving student needs, and it does not have the complete respect and support of the students. Everyone likes to complain, and nobody will claim that Notre Dame is heaven on earth. But if you aren’t interested enough in improving things to go to the Law Auditorium and hear these men, or not interested enough to vote when a vote is called later in the spring, then you are not entitled to gripe.
It is a case of speaking now, through representatives’with a direct commission from you, or forever holding your peace.
March 21, 1952
Seconds after a telephone alert to a nearby Air Force base to “scramble,” pilots hustle to their jets. In minutes, the stubby, swept-back interceptors thunder skyward.
This is the real thing. Pilots call it a “hot scramble.” Live ammo rides in their guns. It starts when an Air Force radar station detects an aircraft which cannot be identified. A telephone call by direct wire galvanizes the jet crews into action.
Modern air defense requires lightning-fast, dependable communication. That’s why our radar defense system is interlinked by a web of direct telephone lines.
Some of today’s college graduates will be piloting Air Force jets. Others will be welcomed into the Bell System where they can help, in peace or war, in the tremendous job of meeting the communications needs of our nation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

The Scholastic
New Fisher Hall to House 156 Juniors
Includes I8 Doubles;
Remainder All Singles
By BOB GORMAN
When next year’s seniors troop back to campus for the coming fall semester, nearly one-fourth of the class will occupy Fisher Hall, which is scheduled for completion sometime in July.
The building has been made possible by a generous donation of $1,000,000 by Mrs. Sally Fisher, the widow of the late Lay Trustee Fred J. Fisher. Of the entire gift, $750,000 has been put into the new residence hall, while the remaining $250,000 has been used to establish a Student Loan Fund.
Because of greatly increased construction costs, Fisher Hall is the smallest residence hall on campus. It can claim to be a bit unique in having a T-shaped construction with wings extending east, west, and south. \ In order to keep within the allotted
amount, it was found necessary to reduce the size of the south wing from the four floors originally planned to two floors. However, the east wing will be four stories high. The west wing, which contains the hall’s chapel, will have only one floor in it.
Fisher building, the nickname which the hall has already picked up, contains 120 single rooms and 18 doubles, with three prefects’ rooms and two assistant prefects’ rooms scattered through the hall.
Singles will measure 7’4” by 12’ while the doubles will be 15’ by 12’. All the double rooms are located at the ends of corridors.
The hall has several special advantages, not the least of which is its proximity to the Dining Hall. In addition, each room in the hall will have a built-in locker.
As is quite noticeable, the building’s windows are very large in line with modem trends, with singles having two windows and doubles having three.
Because of the budget restrictions,
all rooms will be fairly plain. The building is of reinforced concrete column-and-slab skeleton construction, faced with natural Indiana brick. Interior- walls are of a painted concrete construction, rather than the conventional plaster.
Fisher is the second hall on campus to have a lounge room, trailing Morrissey in that department. The new senior hall will also have a study room, a recreation room for such activities as ping-pong, and a good sized storage room for trunks.
General construction work on FisherHall will have cost $685,000 by its completion, and furnishings will add another $35,000 to this sum. Architects’ fees will bring the total cost of Fisher to approximately $762,000.
Having been started last summer, construction on the building will have taken almost exactly a year, for Fisher should be completely finished by this July. It will be outfitted in the last two months of the summer, and then be entirely ready for occupancy in September.
FISHER HALL
Ready for Occupancy in September
March 21, 1952
9
FATHER SHEEDY
Moral Problems . . .
FATHER SHEEHAN
. . . Marriage Psychology
Europe Trip Includes Audience With Pope
Continuing the successful Student Tour Program, inaugurated during the 1950 Holy Year when 3,000 student members joined tours to Rome, the National Federation of Catholic College Students in cooperation with the National Newman Club Federation has announced four tours for 1952.
Student members of the tours will visit six countries — Ireland, England, France, Italy, Switzerland, and Spain—. io view historic landmarks and religious sites. The tours are of 21, 31, 33, and 43 days duration, with departure dates and length of itineraries selected to fit school vacations.
To date tour B, featuring a visit to Rome, where an audience is planned with His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, leads in the number of members registered. It is expected that the Holy Father will speak to the members in English and welcome them to the Eternal City.
American Express-Catholic Travel League has been appointed to handle all travel arrangements for the tours.
Students at Notre Dame may join any of the tours by contacting Don Carbone, at 400 Howard, who has illustrated folders covering the itineraries and rates.
Members of the groups will visit London, Paris, Dublin, Nice, Rome, Florence, Venice, Lucerne, Montreux, Geneva, Lourdes, San Sebastian, Burgos, Mardid, Seville, Gibraltar, Naples, and Avignon. Sightseeing with Englishspeaking guides at points visited is in
13
tended to add to the educational value of each tour.
A special six-day tour of Canada in August preceding the Pax Romana Congress has also been scheduled. The Congress meets August 26 to September 1 in Montreal. The group will visit the Chrine of Brother Andre, C.S.C., St. Joseph’s Oratory, and the Shrine of Ste. Anne de Beaupre. The itinerary also includes a cruise on the St. Lawrence and Saguenay rivers.
Forum Slates Father Sheedy For Marriage Institute Talk *
Next week the fifth and sixth sessions F of the annual Marriage Institute will be held in the Engineering Auditorium.	;
Featured speakers will be Rev. Charles	j
E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Depart-	;
ment of Religion, and Rev. Robert J.	;
Sheehan, C.S.C., head of the Depart-	>
ment of Biology.
Tuesday evening at 7:30, Father	5’
Sheedy will talk on “Moral Problems in Marriage.” The lecture, lasting about an hour, will be followed by a discussion with questions from the floor being | answered by the speaker.	(
Father Sheehan’s subject is “Mascu- d line and Feminine Psychology.” He will J be the first to appear* on the program Thursday, March 27. The second half Z of the evening will be occupied by a J panel discussion on “Practical Problems : of Married Life.” Mr. William R. Doo- L ley, director of the Placement Bureau, ; his wife, and Mr. and Mrs. Russel J.	<
Barta of Vetville will form the panel.	t
Members will be asked to answer vari- . ous questions by Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., chairman of the Institute. .
All seniors and married students are | eligible to attend these informal discus- ■ sions on the practical problems of the married state. The last two talks are scheduled for the Tuesday and Thurs-	J
day of the week beginning March 31.	.
Old Timers Planned For Lenten Movies
Since the beginning of Lent, the arrival of the Thursday movie on campus has raised a question or two. The extra movies are to last for the Lenten duration only. Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., vice-presirent in charge of Student Affairs, explains that they are meant to compensate for the lack of social activities during the penitential season.
The original plan was to provide films related to a good education. Many great novels have been made into good pictures. ’
It was hoped that some of the Dickens stories might be obtained. However, because of a late start on the idea, it was impossible to go through with that plan this year.
Father Carey’s office has managed to get David Hanim, and a Will Rogers movie. They will be shown curing this Lenten season. Old time greats which
came before the day of the 1952 Notre jf Dame man are also scheduled.	j|
Father Carey feels that everyone «r* • should have a chance to see some of the old favorites such as Al Jolson in ac- v tion.
Although the project wasn’t started 5' early enough this Lent, next year the old favorites and the works of art will	i
dominate. It is planned to make every	sv
movie worth-while.	: j
For those who like their entertainment at Washington Hall served with , ’ a bit of cartoon humor, the weekly fun t may have been noticeably absent for a v j short stretch. But it’s all a mistake. <4 Cartoons are here to stay.	j J.
Father Carey calms the mutterings by explaining that there are sometimes hitches in picture scheduling. All films, & i cartoons, and newsreels are on schedule for rental at specified times to each theatre on a particular circuit. A mix-up of some kind may cause a cartoon to be held up and get here too late, —Irv Carrig
lilies ' The Scholastic O;
$ Femme Disk Jockey Emcees WND Show
Fagan and Gunderson Represent Notre Dame In State Peace Speech Contest Here Today
A female disc jockey and a report on the activities of the Student Council have both been added to the program schedule of station WND within the week.
Tuesday at 7:30, Student Council President Jim Garvin was on hand to report on what had occurred at the previous evening’s meeting of the council and to indicate what hopes the council has for student activities in the future,
And on Tuesday and Thursday evenings at 5:30, under the direction of St. Mary’s Radio Director, Miss Mary Elizabeth Mead, a female disc jockey takes to the air. Sylvia Schneider, a junior at St. Mary’s, emcees a 15-minute program of recorded music at that time.
According to Program Director Tom Knott, a few more additions and changes are being planned in the early evening hours on WND.
The “Date at Eight”' show is undergoing a change of format this week —with such nationally famous artists as Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Phil Harris filling in for the first fifteen minutes of the half hour spot, courtesy of the American Red Cross.
On the first of the Red Cross shows, part of the current fund drive, this Wednesday at 8, Bing Crosby will have as his special guest Anna Marie Alberghetti. The second fifteen minutes will be taken up by “Old New Orleans,” a program from the Thesaurus transcription service of Dixieland jazz.
Tuesdays the “Date at Eight” time will be filled by “Music Hall Varieties,” another Thesaurus show.
Thursday’s replacement show hasn’t been decided on yet, but according to Station Manager Bill Ryan, negotiations are being made with the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System for the student voice to broadcast a program sponsored by General Electric.
The changes in the “Date at Eight” format have been made necessary by the try-outs and soon-to-start rehearsals for the student musical, which is authored along with Jerry Costello, by Jack Hynes and Chas. Schubert. The two former proprietors of the 8 o’clock spot have to vacate because of the time they’ll be spending on the musical.
Gounod’s opera “Faust” will be played in its ^entirety this Sunday ah 3 p. m. over station WND, to continue the station’s policy of “opera every Sunday.”
By PAUL FULMER
Notre Dame is being represented by Sophomore Bill Fagan and Freshman Carl Gunderson this afternoon in the annual Indiana State Contest of the Ih-tercollegiate Peace Speech Association, held in the Law Auditorium.
Representatives from many Indiana colleges and universities competed in both the women’s and men’s divisions of the contest. The oratorical and extemporaneous divisions of the contest were held at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. respectively. The Engineering Auditorium was the scene of the women’s competition in this afternoon’s session.
The Intercollegiate Peace Association also sponsors a national contest in oratory for the winners of the state contests. Fagan and Gunderson will attempt to repeat the performance of Joe Conwell in last year’s tourney, when he swept through the state tournament and went on to capture the 1951 national title.
Both the women’s and men’s competition included oratorical and extemporaneous speaking with first, second, and third prizes of §25, §15, and §10 awarded on the state level in each division. Further cash prizes are in the
GUNDERSON AND FAGAN
They'll Try to Match Joe Conwell
offing for the finalists of the nationals.
Fagan was the Notre Dame representative in the oratorical division, while Gunderson competed in the extemporaneous class. Both qualified for the state finals by winning the school elimination tournament on March 14 over ten other aspirants.
The coaches from the individual schools judged the speakers, with the exception of their own entrant. Prof. -William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, was in charge of this year’s contest, and its accompanying arrangements.
Eliminations for the Hearst Tournament of Speech will be held Monday at 3:30 p.m. in Room 330 Main Building. The subject of this tourney is Henry Clay, with a six-minute time limit on the talk. Prizes in the form of Defense Bonds ranging from, §50 to §250 will be awarded in the elimination round.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, of the Notre Dame Department of Speech, has announced that all entrants for the Breen Oratorical Contest must be registered by March 23 in anticipation of the pre-
(Continued on Page 34)
March 21, 1952
11
WILL IT BE IKE. TAFT, STASSEN OR WARREN IN . . .	-
The Race for Mock Convention Votes
A tour of the campus bailiwicks of Republican presidential hopefuls, disclosed that in almost every camp, organization and campaign plans for capturing Notre Dame’s mock convention nomination, April 21 through 23, are already well advanced.
Over 50 state and territorial delegations to the convention are already receiving feelers from the nine campaign committees in an attempt to discover the trend toward and sentiment for candidates in each state.
As expected the big battle appears to be shaping up between Taft and Eisenhower, but at least four othei candidates loom as strong dark horses, any one of whom could conceivably win. This will be particularly true if there is any indication at the convention that a deadlock between Taft and Eisenhower is in the making.
The promoters of almost all of the four — Warren, MacArthur, Hoffman and Stassen — claim their man is a middle of the road candidate who would offer a good compromise between Eisenhower and Taft. The Warren and-Mac-Arthur factions, in particular, are optimistic about their chances of winning and each is planning an all-out campaign habile.	..
_ Two other campaign groups, the back*	“jx v*
ers of Senator Dirksen of Illinois/and Oregon’s Senator Wayne Morse, anticipate strong backing for their man in his home section; Dirksen in the Midwest and Morse in the Far* West.
Another nominee, John Davis Lodge, Governor of Connecticut, is being entered as a favorite son candidate. His backers are hopeful of a good showing for him on the first ballot at the convention.
Ike’s Appeal
The head man in the Eisenhower camp, Brian Kelly, a junior from Badin Hall, stated what he called his candidate’s widespread appeal this way: “Eisenhower is favorable to (1) the young people, because he has spark, personality and states his views concretely; to (2) the old guard Republicans, because of his proven experience as an administrator in the army and in civilian life as president of Columbia University; to (3) Europeans because of his leadership as head of the victorious Allied armies in the war and as di-
12	.
By RUDY UNGER
rector of Europe’s post-war defense efforts.
“That he is capable of winning,” Kelly went on to say, “is demonstrated by his showing in the New Hampshire primary and if he decides to come home to run, his chances will improve.”
Kelly cited Eisenhower’s stand on foreign policy through his work with NATO, his emphasis on the need for the
JOHN O’CONNELL "Making Taft’s Views Known"
United Nations, and his approval of foreign economic aid. On the domestic scene, Kelly stated that Eisenhower was for decreased taxation and a friendly policy toward labor.
The Eisenhower committee will seek votes of delegates at the convention by approaching the heads of the state delegations and certain key contact men in the various halls. A door-to-door campaign with printed posters stating Ike’s platform is also planned.
A rather vast organizational layout has been set up in the move to put Senator Taft over the top at the mock convention, according to Taft-for-President movement’s campaign chairman, John O’Connell, a junior from Dillon Hall.
Glenn Yatuni, of Alumni, a Taft committeeman, mentioned, “There have been reports that Senator Taft does not
appeal to youth. We are out to prove this isn’t so. He offers us a choice between statism and freedom. There is no question which American youth will choose. For 16 years presidential campaigns have been conducted like popularity contests. Taft is the only candidate now available who is prepared to conduct a campaign on issues and principles. That’s the kind of campaign serious young people want to see. His platform, indicated by his many speeches across the land, speaks for itself.”
Cites Taft's Views
Chairman O’Connell added, “We have, in building our campaign, been in constant contact with various Taft organizations and leaders throughout the country and will, here on campus, in making Taft’s views known, use every means of publicity available.”
The movement for Earl Warren, governor of California, is led by Jim Richards, a senior from Alumni Hall, who said:
“Our man, Governor Warren, will be more than a favorite son in this convention. There will not be a solid front for any one candidate and the Taft-Eisenhower conflict should help Warren enormously. We hope to have a substantial vote for him on the first ballot and in later ballots we have high hopes of actually seeing the big battle turn into a struggle between Warren and Eisenhower.
“The California delegation will be solidly behind the governor ahd several other- delegations, notably eastern ones, have indicated a willingness to back him also. His rejection of the.‘call the troops home’ stand on foreign policy and his refutation of McCarthy should strengthen his eastern support.
1948 Convention
“If the 1948 mock convention is any indication, Warren stands an excellent chance. In that convention the students diverted from the professional politicians and chose Arthur Vandenberg
over Dewey and Taft. If the student temperament is once again favorable to a middle of the road course, then Warren’s chances for winning are indeed good.”
Don Ross, a junior from Dillon and the boss man of the other “all the way
The Scholastic
Between White Knights and Dark Horses
group” the MacArthur backers, also views the Taft-Eisenhower duel as a ripe situation in which MacArthur stands to pick up votes from each side as well as capturing a large segment of the independent vote.
“The American people need a leader,” Ross commented, “a man with exceptional powers to administrate in exceptional times. Such a man is MacArthur. He is a man who has widespread appeal ; a man who is conducive to the will of the people. He is no mere military man but a statesman as is evidenced by the state of post-war Japan. He has an added advantage, due to his long absence, in being able to see America in excellent perspective of what she is today and what she was 15 years ago.
“He would fight against the trend toward Socialism and extravagant spending at home and abroad. Indicative to his potential as a vote-getter,” Ross pointed out, “were the two thou-
BRIAN KELLY
Ike “Is Capable of Winning”
sand write-in votes he received in the New Hampshire primary. That he would run, if the people so willed, he indicated when he said, 'I would humbly accept any public duty to which I might be called by the American people’.”
Hoffman, Too
Paul Hoffman, another dark horse, has come up with a surprisingly strong organization committee here on campus
under the direction of a Walsh Hall senior, Dave Will.
Will, in response to our question, told us, “We plan to build our campaign around Hoffman’s long and fine career as an administrator — as president of Studebaker, as head of the ECA and in his present capacity as director of the Ford Foundation. He is appreciated by labor for his long record unmarred by a single major labor dispute; he is admired by industry for his fine record of leadership in that field. “His ideas are liberal, progressive and yet are Republican. Our biggest job is to make known to the delegates this fine record of our candidate. Particularly to those from farm areas who naturally would know very little about him.”
Will implied that if the committee was unsuccessful in its attempt to win the presidential nomination for Hoffman, they might put on a sustained drive to gain for him the vice-presidential nomination.
The backers of Harold Stassen, spearheaded by the Minnesota Club and a strong law school group, are commanded by law student John J. Connelly.
The Stassen Case
Here’s the way Connelly explained the case for Stassen: “We see our man as a strong possibility as a compromise candidate. He’s a young man (45) with long government experience, dating back to his governorship in Minnesota in the depression era. He’s a man with definite views on world and national policy. Overall, he believes the hope of freedom lies in America’s ability to prove to the world that the capitalistic system is the world’s best and to show up Communism for what it is.
“To do this he proposes, away from home — strengthening the United Nations and backing European aid. At home—he proposes a harmonious combination of free labor and dynamic industry, championing small business and a favorable farm program. He also proposes federal monetary aid in housing and medicine without federal control. His appeal to the various factions can be readily seen from a study of the foregoing. -And to this we might add, his approval of civil rights for Negroes, has won considerable support for him among the colored population of the South.”
Main cog in the move to draft Senator Dirksen of Illinois for mock convention’s nomination is law school student, Pat Henry. Henry is planning a publicity campaign which will include commercials over WND, posters and buttons, in hi’s effort to push Dirksen, whom he portrays as being a fine example of the traditional American quality of stability.	.
“He served well in the House for 15 years,” Henry said, “and after fighting off threatening blindness which forced his resignation from the House, he returned to government in spectacular style by handing Scott Lucas, the powerful Democratic majority leader in the senate, his first political defeat by winning the Illinois senatorial race by an overwhelming majority. He himself has never been defeated and his zeal in and adherence to his legislative duties has won him the admiration of his colleagues. He has voted on almost every major issue and his views on all issues are cleat to the people of the country, thanks to his frequent speaking tours around the nation. He would serve equally well either as president or vicepresident.”
Morse a Liberal
The campaign for the other strong sectional candidate, Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon, is in the hands of Walt Werner, a junior, from Dillon.
(Continued on Page 16)
DON ROSS “Such a Man Is MacArthur"
March 21, 1952
13
Frosh Set for Annual Class Oratory Contest;
Irish and Union Colleges Deadlock in Brooklyn
Debate coach Len Sommer announced this week that the annual Freshman oratorical contest is now open to prospective participants. A cash award of $10.00 will be awarded to the individual who, in the opinion of the judges, has delivered the best original oration on a subject of his own choice.
The contest is open to anyone who has not completed more than two semesters in his undergraduate work.
The orations are not to exceed 11 minutes, nor should they be any less than eight minutes in length. Quoted material may be used in the orations but it is not to exceed 25 per cent of the entire oration.
Those desiring faculty assistance in preparing their orations should contact Professor Sommer. Freshmen who are interested should submit their names to Professor Sommer at the Department of Speech, room 328, Main building, before Saturday.
On March 7 and 8 Notre Dame debaters Don Dowden, Bill Hank, Chuck Doherty, and Al DeCrane tied for first place in the Brooklyn College Debate Tourney.
Competing in a field of 120 teams representing 52 top schools such as Dartmouth, Princeton, Penn, Penn State, Fordham, Kings College and Union College, Notre Dame finished in a technical tie for first place with Union College.
ND Gets Permanent Trophy
Although Notre Dame met - and defeated Union College in the course of the tourney, one of Union’s opponents failed, to show up, thus causing Union to have one less debate than Notre Dame. However, they had lost to Notre Dame in actual tourney competition and were behind in total points.
The permanent trophy was given to Notre Dame,, while Union College received the traveling trophy, which they are allowed to keep for one year. .
Not only did Notre Dame win first place honors in debating, but DeCrane and Hank tied each other for first place as best speakers at the tournament.
The Brooklyn College debates marked the 116th debate of the year for Notre Dame.
Eye National Championship
Coach Sommer is now devoting his attention to the important United States National Debate Championships. The United States is divided into eight debate districts, with each district selecting and sending a limited number of
teams to the national finals held annually at West Point.
Notre Dame belongs to district five, which comprises the states of Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, and Wisconsin. All schools wishing to compete for selection as district representatives to the finals must take part in the regional championships held at Ohio State, which start next Thursday and continues Friday and Saturday.
At this regional elimination tourney two men will represent each school. There will be six rounds of debate with three judges for each round. Five schools will be picked at this tourney on a highest point basis to participate in the finals. Only 34 teams will be picked from the hundreds of schools in the entire nation to compete in the finals.
Notre Dame has been in the national finals four times during the last five years. Coach Sommer has not as yet announced who will represent Notre Dame in the Ohio State eliminations.
Bids Go on the Block For Prom, McIntyre
With the initiation of ticket sales in the lobby of the Dining Hall Wednesday, Junior Prom activity has entered its final big stage. Over 200 reservations had been placed with Class President Floyd Blair before the sales opened. Bids are $7.50.
Hal McIntyre, “the band all America loves,” will provide the music for the
hal McIntyre “The Band All America Loves’’
Juniors on their evening of “Sophistication” April 25 in the Rockne Memorial. \ S
McIntyre was a stuednt of Benny : Goodman and Glenn Miller. The first . player hired by Miller when the latter	;
was forming his band in 1938, Mein-	•
tyre in 1941 began his own band, which • ' soon won wide popularity. The Mein-tots played in all the big night spots in	,
the United States. During the war Me-	’
Intyre and his musicians toured the ; European theatre of war.	j
Hal has recorded for MGH, RCA Vic- i tor, and Cosmo. His Sentimental Jour- i ney for RCA was particularly successful.	s
McIntyre’s style is his own. Subdued reed voicing, bright clipped brasses and his own sax solos are all part of his presentation. Miss Jeanne McMannus is his featured soloist.
In addition to McIntyre there will be music provided by a combo yet to be se- * * lected. Dancing will be from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. with the usual car and 2:30 a.m. permissions.
Placement News
For the interviews on Monday, March 24, there will be two companies at Notre Dame. Commonwealth Edison Co., (electric utility) Chicago, will interview mechanical and electrical engineers and accounting majors with at least an 85 average. Haskins & Sells, C.P.A.’s, want accounting majors. For this see Prof. James Dincolo.
On March 24 and 25, Monday and Tuesday, a group of government representatives will conduct Civil Service interviews in the Vetville Recreation Hall which is just north of the Navy Drill Hall. These men will represent the following activities: Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N. J., mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineers, and metallurgists; also undergraduate and graduate students in the same field for summer employment.
Philadelphia Naval Air Material Center, all engineers, physicists and mathematicians; Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, architects, electrical and mechanical engineers.
Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Wash., electrical and mechanical engineers; Aberdeen Proving Ground, Aberdeen, Md., physicists, metallurgists, and mechanical, electrical, aeronautical, and chemical engineers; Signal Corps center, Fort Monmouth, N. J., electrical and mechanical engineers.
Frankford Arsenal, Philadelphia, mechanical, electrical, civil, and chemical engineers and metallurgists. The National Bureau of Standards, Wash-
The Scholastic
14
ington, D. C., chemists, metallurgists, w mathematicians, physicists and all engineering graduates on all degree levels.
Also on this same day a private company, American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp, will interview mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineers for sales engineering openings. The Travelers Insurance Co., will also speak to A.B. and Commerce graduates for Administrative and Field Service Work in the group department.
Two companies will be here on Tuesday, March 25. Oscar Mayei- & Co., Madison, Wis., will interview chemists and chemical engineers for product research and product control. Industrial engineers, A.B. and Commerce men will also be interviewed for the pre-super-visory training program in production area. Stewart-Warner Corp, (heating equipment), Indianapolis, will speak to mechanical, electrical, and aeronautical engineers and physicists.
On Wednesday, March 26, interviews will be held by three companies. Pia-secki Helicopter Corp., Morton, Pa., will interview mechanical and aeronautical engineers. Shell Development Co;, Emeryville, Calif., will interview B.S. chemists.
Sinclair Research Laboratories, Inc., Harvey, XH-, wants B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists (organic and physical) and M.S. and B.S. chemical engineers. They will be here on Thursday and Friday, March 27 and 28.
Two interviews will take place on Friday, March 28. National Lead Co., of Cincinnati, Ohio (contract operators for Atomic Energy Commission), wants chemists, physicists, and metallurgists, and chemical, mechanical, and electrical engineers on all degree levels.
" Associates Investment Co., South Bend, whose chief business is automobile financing, will interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for district jobs in sales, collection, etc.
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for next Monday’s meeting of the Student Council, at 7:15 p.m. in 100 Law, will include:
1.	Report on student self-government for Fisher Hall.
2.	Report of revision commission on new student government constitution.
3.	Report on proposed dollar tax for Council treasury.
4.	Report on possibility of Student Group insurance.
Father Cavanaugh Will Announce Recipient Of Notre Dame's Laetare Medallion Sunday
By MATT MALISON
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, will announce the name of the 70th annual recipient of the Laetare Medal on Laetare
Lecture Speakers to Speak on Family Life
The fourth in a series of Aquinas Lenten Lectures will be presented bv Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley at the South Bend Progress Club this Sunday at 8:15 p.m. The problem to be discussed will be “How to Attain a Happier and Fuller Family Life.”
Mr. and Mrs. Crowley are from Wilmette, Ill. Mr. Crowley graduated
MR. AND MRS. CROWLEY
A Happier, Fuller Family Life
from Notre Dame and the Loyola University Law School. Mrs. Crowley is a graduate of Trinity College. Both have been leaders in the Christian Family Movement in Chicago for several years.
The fifth and final lecture of the Aquinas Lenten series will be presented on March 30, by the Rev. Matthew Miller, O.F.M., of Brookline, Mass. The topic of Father Miller’s discussion will be “The Passion of Christ.”
Speakers who have appeared in the Lenten series thus far have been Dr. Charles deKonich, dean of the Laval University philosophy faculty; the Rev. Stanley J. Kusman, professor of philosophy at St. Mary’s University, San Antonio, Tex.; and Monsignor Martin B. Hellriegel of St. Louis, Mo.
Sunday, March 23. The University of Notre Dame Committee of Award, composed of ten faculty members selected by the president, who heads the committee, bestows the award.
The committee has met three times during the past year to discuss the names submitted to them by a sub-committee on nominations. After having received full and unbiased reports from outside sources, particularly on the Catholicity of the final candidates, the Committee of Award decides who will be the award winner.
This is one of the highest honors conferred on American Catholic laity.
The Laetare Medal, like the papal Golden Rose, is a symbol of loyalty to Catholic ideals. Bestowal of the papal rose, a custom in practice since the 11th century, originally was given not to individuals, but to churches, governments, or cities conspicuous for their Catholic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See.
When the papacy moved to Avignon, it became the custom to give it to the most worthy prince of the court. This was later modified to include Catholic kings, queens, princes, princesses, renowned generals, or other distinguished personages.
The awarding of the medal is the University’s method of showing its recognition of the need of Catholic leadership among the laity. The purpose is summed up in the words of the late Prof. James Edwards, one of the originators of the award: “Men and women who have added lustre to the name of American Catholic, by their talent and virtues, deserve good-will and encouragement.”
The 1951 recipient of the Laetare Medal was John Henry Phelan, of Beaumont, Tex., philanthropist. Other recent winners have been Gen. J. Lawton Collins, Actress Irene Dunne Griffin, and former Postmaster General Frank C. Walker.
The design of the Laetare Medal takes • its cue from the simple golden rose first bestowed by the papacy. The medal consists of a solid gold disc hung from a gold bar and bears the inscription, “Laetare Medal.”
Inscribed in a border around the disc is the Latin motto meaning, “Truth is mighty and will prevail.” The center design of the medal is fashioned according to the profession of the recipient.
The actual presentation of this year’s award will take place in the near future following this- Sunday’s announce-
March 21, 1952
15
Mock Convention
(Continued from Page 13)
Working with Werner in promoting Morse’s candidacy are John Houck, Dillon junior, graduate student Jerry White, and Gloria Bird and Rose Mary Murphy of St. Mary’s among others.
Werner in an interview said, “We are backing Senator Morse because he is a liberal Republican; a leading senator who takes a positive stand on all issues (He has the highest voting record of any Republican senator); and who comes closest to the teachings of the Pope’s encyclicals and the views of Catholic papers such as the Commonweal in backing such issues as public housing, standard wages and continued armament. We find him more suitable than Taft or a military man.
“We plan an intensive program in the 'Light the Fuse for Morse Movement,’ including use of posters, postcards, banners, bands and drum majorettes. We hope to gain at' least 150 votes on the first ballot at the convention for Morse.”
Nomination of John Davis Lodge, the favorite son candidate from Connecticut, is being planned by a committee headed by senior Dave Curry of Alumni Hall. Curry promises a powerful publicity drive which will include: buttons, posters and a big pre-convention rally in downtown South Bend.
Hits Centralization
Curry says, “Governor* Lodge is not bound or hampered by personal ambitions. He is an exponent of giving the government back to the people, of decentralization of government. He illustrated this after his smashing triumph over the powerful,.seemingly unbeatable Fair Deal ultra-liberal Chester Bowles, in the Connecticut Gubernatorial race —when he threw out the bureaucratic experts and put in their place home state folks to run the government.
“In two years as governor, he has given the people of the state a progressive and stable administration; promoting harmonious capital-labor relations to where lost work hours due to strikes in the vital aircraft industries of the state disappeared almost entirely; developing a state-wide highway system that is a model iri the Union.”
With some expected support from the midwest and the southwest the Lodge boosters hope to tally a sizeable vote for their favorite son on the first ballot. If as the convention proceeds they find they are unable to snowball the move for him, they will probably throw their support to the candidate who most nearly reflects the political philosophy of Lodge.
16
All students who would like to be delegates to the mock convention and have not as yet applied for membership in their state’s delegation, may do so in the lobby of the dining hall each evening, from 5:30 to 6:30, the week of March 24 through March 31, or sign up with the following:
Convention Delegates
Alabama—Thomas Najjar, 369 Dillon; Arizona—Charles Wolf, 414 Badin; Arkansas—John O’Brien, 305 Alumni; California — Harry Siemonsma, 101 Alumni; Colorado — John Moran, 219 Sorin; Connecticut—David Curry, 165 Alumni; Delaware — Bruce Fox, 318 Cavanaugh; Florida—Pat Caraher, 317 Alumni; Georgia—Maurice Maloff, 369 Dillon; Idaho — John McDermott, 344 Farley; Illinois — Pat Doherty, 120 Alumni; Indiana—Thomas Murphy, 363 Cavanaugh.
Iowa—Tom Hassenger, 237 Howard; Kansas — Terry O’Keefe, 207 Badin; Kentucky, Bill Moore, 207 Dillon; Louisiana—Arthur Weichmann, 144 Morrissey; Maine — Ray Earls, 405 Walsh; Maryland — Bill Gaudreau, 234 Dillon; Massachusetts—Jim Powers, 225 Sorin; Michigan—George McCourt, 105 Dillon; Minnesota — Joe O’Neill, 301 Howard; Mississippi—Barry Reece, 155 Morrissey; Missouri — Jim Walsh, 8 Sorin; Montana—Bob O’Leary, 1001 N. Johnson St.
Nebraska—Larry McKim, 1526 E. LaSalle Ave.; Nevada — Robert Carville, 511 E. St. Vincent St.; New Hampshire — Charles Touhey, 210 Wakewa Ave.; New Jersey—Jack Long, 209 Marquette New Mexico—Walter Werner, 227 Dillon; New York—Don Fager, 411 Walsh; North Carolina—George McClancy, 230 Walsh; North Dakota—Wallace Butler, 314 N. Taylor; Ohio—Paul Davis, 232 Walsh; Oklahoma — Harry Milton, 48 Sorin; Oregon — Paul Newman, 231 Alumni; Pennsylvania — Joseph McDade, 387 Dillon.
Rhode Island—Phil Toole, 319 Walsh; South Carolina — Tom Armstrong, 303 B-P; South Dakota — John Tveidt, 142 Alumni; Tennessee—Gerald Mernin, 418 Morr; Texas—Richard Braun, 313 Lyons; Utah—Frank Regan, 357 Alumni; Vermont — Bill Shannon, 234 Alumni; Virginia—Robert Hull, 229 Cavanaugh; Washington—Jim O’Brien, 267 Alumni; West Virginia—Jack Malik, 268 Alumni; Wisconsin — Don Ross, 347 Dillon; Wyoming—Angelo Perchich, 17 Lyons.
Territories—Alaska — J ohn Vincent, 205 2nd St.; D. of Columbia—Walter Murphy, 423 Howard; Hawaii—Ronald Wong, 141 Dillon; Puerto Rico—Joseph Perez, 351 Cavanaugh.
Department of Religion Adds New Course for Next Year
Rev. Charles Sheedy, Head of the Department of Religion, has announced a new course for the fall semester that is a three hour elective in religion. Following the request of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine group on campus, this elective course has been added to the curriculum.
The purpose of the course is to give a presentation of doctrinal material to be used by catechists in dealiing with high school students, adult educational groups, and convert groups. The catechist’s part will clearly be shown in this one semester, three credit-hours course.
Also through the CCD on campus, anyone so desiring will have the opportunity to put the principles of the course into practice in the South Bend parishes.	.	•
But above and beyond the teaching of principles and the earning of three credit hours, the purpose of the course is to contribute to the development of a mature college graduate "who will be able to assume his responsibilities in his own parish, and to understand more fully the influence of contempo-ary religious thought in the United Sttataes.
Commission Sponsors Photo
Contest Depicting Family Life
A family photo contest to encourage greater family companionship and activity has been announced by the Na- j tional Family Life Commission of the * National Federation of Catholic College ’	*
Students. All Notre Dame students are Lf eligible.
Individual pictures or a sequence of up to five pictures telling a story of Catholic family life may be submitted. ; Closing date for entries is April 1.	s
Prints should be black and ■white, at	i
least five by seven inches in size, and	■
mounted on matte-board. A label is to • be attached to the back of each matte, giving the names of the persons pictured and the return address of the
owner.
Mounted prints and negatives should be sent to Miss Barbara Haerer, chairman of the National Family Life commission, College of New Rochelle, N. Y.
Two prizes for the best individual pictures and two others for the best photo sequences are to be awarded. First prize in each division will be the “Family Book of Life.” Second prizes •will be a “Christian Prayer for the Dining Room.”
The Scholastic
What’s that you say, boy? You sus-pect you’re being observed lately? You’ve looked up from books the past few days only to find beady eyes peering at you through the transom? You continually hear strange, furtive noises outside your door? You’ve caught someone standing in the hall jotting cryptic little things down in a notebook? Once a complete stranger even stepped out of your clothes closet mumbling something about “just looking”? Well, take it easy, son, they’re not after you. It’s just room-picking time again.
Come to think of it, you shouldn’t be too surprised by such mysterious goings-on. In fact, you’re probably doing the same thing yourself. And if this is the case, a few elementary, sound principles will assure you a room of which you might well be proud.
Take my room, for example. Picture 1 if you will an immense, blond-wood door, and yourself standing outside in the lush foyer. You press the button, and heai- the majestic, deep-throated sound reminiscent of a temple gong. As the smiling domestic silently opens the door and guides you into the thickly carpeted ante-room, you pause for a moment while he takes your coat, and straighten your tie before the mirror as the thought strikes you that these are surely diggings where one must look his best. You pass the Matisse on the other wall and enter the main room. Your first impression here is one of an incredibly pleasant aroma, a mixture of fireplace smoke, old leather, fine cigars, and yes, sandalwood. You gaze around admiringly, taking in the three walls lined with books, the big, comfortable chairs, the piano, the balcony outside those French doors, the elegance, the utter desirability. Nearer you, curry • is bubbling on the chafing dish, while in the corner efficient, imperturbable Rollins is pouring and mixing. A man scruffing the neck of a beautifully ugly boxer rises and comes toward you with outstretched hand. He is large, grayhaired, and very distinguished. “Ah, Moresby,” he says, “you’ve brought the plans for the merger, I take it?” Your name isn’t Moresby and you haven’t the slightest idea what he’s talking about, but that’s not the point. The point is that this is surely something to have, and that it’s something you can have, too. All it takes is the small, but steady and regular proceeds from a steel mill or two, a couple of oil concerns, and the Great Atlantic and Pacific Food Company, as sure as my name is Rollins.
Well, now that all your illusions are shattered we can face the problem of how to get the best of what’s available. There are any number of quick, easy-to-follow methods of ascertaining
Room-picking
Made Easy
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
whethei- a room is the one for you. Here are only a few of them:
1.	Don’t listen to anyone else. You will find many disreputable tipsters and touts waiting to bilk the unwary. Ignore them. Disregard all talk of fine rooms at ridiculously low averages. Look for yourself. I know one fellow who picked a room overlooking a pile of coal on the advice that it was Sugar Loaf Mountain. He went mad waiting to see a llama.
2.	Care and thoroughness are indis
pensable. Examine everything closely. Is there plenty of play in the doorknob? Does the lock turn freely and easily? Now look at the flooring. Is it sturdy and dry, adaptable for firewood in the cold winter months ahead? Put your ear to it. Do you detect the scampering of small, furry creatures? If so, you don’t buy. Then drum your fingers lightly on the wall. Does anyone drum back? An answer- in the affirmative can be interpreted in two ways: either
(Continued on Page 22)
March 21, 1952
17
18
The Scholastic
March 21, 1952
How Should We Change
An Inter-Hall and Inter-Club Council?
With the years Notre Dame has come a long way. Its student body has grown, its courses increased, and its fame spread. As the school expanded, it was natural for groups to lose the close contact that existed earlier. Unfortunately, not enough was done to change the situation.
The Student Council has tried at times to improve conditions. But the students in general have shown little confidence in the Student Council and have felt that it is not a representative body. The main difficulty is that the present council would work all right in • a small university but not in one the size of Notre Dame.
Another reason that the council has not operated as it should is that its members frequently feel helpless: They complain that the students are not behind them or that they are not interested in what the council is doing. Its members talk of student inertia.
Undoubtedly, there is something to say for each side; admittedly, a change is needed. If the students were fairly represented, both complaints could be cured, for student government then would have the needed continuity between its members and the student body.
With this done there would be a noticed improvement, but it would not be enough. One more step is necessary, and it is a crucial one. The administration must know what the students are thinking, not vaguely or haphazardly, through contact -with individual students—this is not enough—but directly, through an effective, organized, -well-directed student government body. It cannot but help improve conditions, for, after all, every person here wants Notre Dame to be as good a school as possible; every student wants to be proud of it when he graduates. Frequently, however, he feels left out. Why? One reason is a lack of cohesion among the students, the faculty, and the administration.
To counteract this trend, to keep the University united, to foster the Notre Dame spirit, to represent the student body to the administration, to carry out the interests of the students
20
By PAUL ZALECKI
should be the end purpose of student councils.
It is not an easy task, but it can be done. We have a plan for a student council which will do it. It well work. It will work because it answers the needs of a student council: it represents the students, it reflects and
PAUL ZALECKI
. . . Complex Organization . . . Would Fail . . .
promotes their interests, and it establishes a close contact with the administration and the faculty.
It also will work because its organizational set-up is simple. A complex organization, even if it had the same purposes in mind, would fail: it would duplicate efforts and produce little. Too much organization is just as bad as not enough; this is especially true at Notre Dame.
Here is the plan we are proposing. In place of the present Student Council, one change would he to set up an Inter-Hall Council. The IHC would take care of those activities that pertain to the student as a member of a hall or of a class, or as part of the general Notre Dame community. The individual hall councils would cooperate
with the, IHC but would concentrate primarily upon their own activities. Such affairs as class dances would come under the IHC.
Its functions, then, would be similar to the present student council except for a change in the system of representation. The members of the IHC would include two representatives of every hall, two off-campus students, and four IHC officers chosen by the body. Hall representation forms the basis of the IHC. It is a larger, more workable council than the present one.
Under this plan the students can get their ideas to the members of the IHC without difficulty, for there would be at least two student representatives in every hall. In addition, the IHC would be large enough to act upon proposals of the student body and to carry them out. After all, Notre Dame is not as big as the national government. There is no need for a complex, divisional breakdowr of its functions. For one thing, an elaborate set-up is too rigid; it could not operate easily. All that an IHC is expected to do can be done under this plan.
(Continued on Page 32)
On these two pages Scholastic presents an issue which should be of interest to all who have ever held opinions or criticisms regarding ND student government—which should mean the entire student body. You will find that the measures proposed are not a debate solely for the purpose of debate, but represent many hours of thought and work on the part of both authors—Jim Garvin, President of the Student Council, and Paul Zalecki, Notre Dame's Senior NFCCS Delegate. You will also find that each has something to offer, and that neither entertains any thought of personal reward or increased prominence as a result of his proposals. The views expressed in this article do not necessarily represent those of the University of Notre Dame or of the Notre Dame Scholastic.
The Scholastic
Student Government?
Or Senate, Cabinet, and President?
This article is concerned primarily with student gomernment duties towards the governed, the student body. The student government mission of mediation between the student body and the Administration is not emphasized in this writing. That all-important relationship will be handled soon.—The Author
1952 Anno Domini, a banner year in the U. S. A. A year of political fireworks, intrigue and extravaganza. A year when the American people are £ shocked by the realization that the American government is their government and not the plaything of the Republicans or Democrats. The citizens are once again presented with that key question, “Quo Vadimus,” or “Where do we go from here?” And come next November when the smoke of battle disappears on election day, each citizen will answer that question by choosing the candidate of that party which he thinks will lead him to the right goal line.
Yes, it’s as simple as that. The machinery of our national government is all set up. The citizen merely decides who will operate it and towards what general end. Oh, for such a situation in Notre Dame student government!
Before we can even think of electing our leaders, we must first revolutionize our government’s antiquated form and structure, and thereby give those elected 0 a fighting chance of doing the job expected of them.
Today’s student council is not representative. It is not efficient. It is not progressive. Why? Because the present constitution is inadequate; it does not and cannot fulfill the governmental needs of our student community.
The Student Council is well aware of this, and last month established a committee to overhaul the present charter, or to create a new one. After four weeks of intense labor, this Revision Committee, composed primarily of underclassmen representing key student organizations, is ready to report. This article shall serve as “the report” both to you and to the Student Council.
A New Constitution
1.	The Revision Committee recommends that a new Student Government £ Constitution be adopted. Reason: it would be easier to draft a new one than
By JIM GARVIN
to renovate the old one properly.
2.	The Committee recommends that the new constitution be explained to the Student Body, ratified by it, and accepted by the Administration before the end of April, 1952, since student ratification plus acceptance by the Administration are necessary to validate any Student Government charter. Reason: If the new Constitution is to go into effect next Fall, its election provisions must be followed in this Spring’s elections.
3.	The Revision Committee offers a new constitution for immediate consideration.
JIM GARVIN 11 . . . Two General Functions . . . ”
Here is the meat of this proposed Constitution. Its critics call it too complex, too burdensome, too bureaucratic. Judge for yourself, keeping in mind the job it must perform.
- Student Government, like any government, has two general functions: Legislation (decision) and Execution (action). As was pointed out in the recent Scholastic article, “What Ails the Student Council,” the Student Council now combines both of these functions, deciding what to do, and doing what it decides. This results in an impossible de
mand on the Councilmen and therefore they can’t do justice to their duties.
To alleviate this situation, the new Constitution proposes a Cabinet Form of Student Government. This calls for a sharp division of the legislative and executive functions. It is similar to the American method, where Congress legislates and the President, the Chief Executive, applies this legislation.
A Student Senate would be the legislature. An Executive Cabinet would be the administrator. Let’s take a look at each of them separately.
A Representative Body
THE STUDENT SENATE. The Student Senate would make all decisions concerning the Student Body and its organizations, and would be directly re-' sponsible to the Student Body for all its activities. To make decisions it must be representative of the major divisions of student life. Therefore, representatives, elected by these major divisions, must be on the Student Senate.
Here is the complexion of representation in the Constitution proposed by the Revision Committee:
1.	The Presidents of the four classes.
2.	A Senatoi- from each of the fourteen residence halls.
3.	A Senator from each of the five colleges in the University.
4.	A Senator from the Graduate School.
5.	A Senator from the off-campus clientele.
6.	A Senator from Vetville.
7.	Four Stay Senators, elected by and from the preceding Senate, to serve as a basis on continuity and experience for the new Senate.
Total: thirty Senators. Each Senator would be expected to represent his constituency by taking an active part in legislative debate, proceedings, voting— and nothing more. The authority for carrying out the Senate resolutions is delegated to the Executive Cabinet.
THE EXECUTIVE CABINET. Since administration, not legislation, is the prime concern of Student Government, the Executive Cabinet would be the important body. The Cabinet would animate the resolutions passed by the Senate. The Cabinet is composed of the following:
1. The four officers of the Seudent (Continued on Page 32)
March 21, 1952
21
Plans in the Making For NFCCS Congress
Work is rapidly progressing on plans for the annual NFCCS Congress, to be held at Notre Dame Aug. 28 through Sept. 3.
Harry Hadlock, a pre-med sophomore, has been named chairman of the Accommodations Committee. He will take charge of the food, housing, and various other services rendered to the visiting delegates. Arrangements have already been made with the University authorities in regard to these matters. Hadlock will also carry out the duties of office manager for the Congress.
Official notice of the Congress has been sent to many Catholic and secular newspapers throughout the country, as well as to each member college in the Federation. Some 750 news letters giving information about the Congress are likewise being dispatched to prospective delegates.
Official notice of the Congress has been sent to many Catholic and secular newspapers throughout the country, as well as to each member college in the Federation. Some 750 news letters giving information about the Congress are likewise being dispatched to prospective delegates.
The Registration Committee has been put under the direction of Jack Wallace, Cavanaugh Hall sophomore. The registration deadline for the Congress is set at May 5.
The Transportation Committee, headed by Joe Nash, is currently devising a plan for a travel pool which will equalize transportation expenses to and from the Congress for the delegates regardless of the distance they may li~n from Notre Dame.
Preliminary work on the official NFCCS Yearbook, to be published in conjunction with the Congress, is still in progress. Managing Editor Jack Fink has announced that editorial work wiU commence as soon as this earlier material has been printed. Sophomore Tom Godfrey will assist the editorial staff ir. an advisory capacity.
Room Picking .
(Continued from Page 17) you’ve got ghosts, or there are many hours of fun in store for you tapping out messages with your next-door neigh-hor. Devise a code of your own, just like real secret agents use. It’s keen! Is there any writing on the wall? If so, is it something clever you can pass off as an original witticism? Windows demand special attention. Is there a window? Can you see out of it? Search the dirt on the floor for tell-tale dunes
22
and ridges which tip off a strong draft. Are the panes in good shape? Rap on one sharply. Does it break? If so, cross the room off your list and sneak quietly out. How about electrical outlets? Do they work? Stick your finger in one and find out. Get up off the floor; you already checked for mice. Examine the faucets carefully. It isn’t necessary that the cold one work; as long as the hot faucet runs you’ll be getting plenty of both. Can you see yourself in the mirror? Can you see anyone else? It’s probably the occupant, about to pitch you out on your ear.
3.	Size is not all-important. There are other considerations, such as the view from your window. The. chances are you will overlook either a bus stop or a quadrangle. But put yourself apart from the mass. Try to get a room on Michiana’s Playground—Badin Bog. It’s just great for hawking peanuts on Spring afternoons. And please pick a room with atmosphere. One with pipes running through the ceiling and handball smudges on the walls. Names carved on desks are especially valuable, and the older the better. Last year there was an actual stampede on one tiny cell merely because it contained a genuine Rolf J. Pedantic, ’09.
4.	A 93 average also helps.
Notre Dame's Anglers Cast For Prize-Winning Brain Food
With bass as the prey, Notre Dame anglers have been invited to try their hand at luring the large or small mouth species from the well-stocked waters of St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes. The annual Spring fishing contest is now under way.
Prizes in fishing equipment can be won by catching the fish and registering
Mass Schedule
Monday, March 24—Monday of the fourth week of Lent; Feast of St. Gabriel the Archangel.
Tuesday, March 25—Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Wednesday, March 26—Wednesday of the fourth week of Lent.
Thursday, March 27—Thursday of the fourth week of Lent; Feast of St. John Damascene.
Friday, March 28—Friday of the fourth week of Lent; Feast of St. John Capistrano.
Saturday, March 29—Saturday of the fourth week of Lent.
----o----
Mass of Sunday, March 23, will contain an instruction on the “Epistles and Gospels.” Speakers will be: at the 7 o’clock Mass, Father Fagan; at 8, Father Stegman; at 9, Father Frank Cavanaugh; at 10, Father Gassensmith.
them with Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C.
All fish must be registered at Corby g Hall within 24 hours after they are caught.
The rewards for the five largest bass will be $20, $16, $12, $8, and $4 respec-ttively, in fishing equipment from Reco’s sporting goods store. The contest ends on May 15.
Only Notre Dame students may participate, and no contestant may claim more than one prize. Father Baldwin has reported that both lakes have been well stocked recently and that last year an eight-pound, 24-inch bass was pulled out of Notre Dame waters.
Fr. Wilson Opens Sophomore Retreat Services Tomorrow
Tomorrow evening it’s the sophomores’ turn to begin their annual Lenten retreat. They will meet in Dillon a Hall Chapel where the 8 o’clock opening conference will be conducted by Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C.
Following the opening service, the sophomores will proceed to the Grotto to recite the rosary. This will be followed by confessions in Sacred Heart Church.
On Sunday morning there will be Mass at 8 a. m. and a conference at 10:30.
The closing service will consist of a conference at 1:30 p. m., followed by outdoor Stations of the Cross and the apostolic blessing.
All graduate students, seniors, and juniors who have not yet made their retreat are invited to do so this week end.
Next week the freshman class will hold their retreat in Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., is scheduled to act as retreat master.
3
The Scholastic j
Americas Golden Rose
by Harry Siemonsma
This Sunday, Catholic America will focus its attention on Notre Dame University for the annual announcement of the Laetare Medal recipient. The medal is awarded each year on Laetare Sunday to an outstanding American Catholic layman in recognition of achievement in a specific field while faithfully embracing the Prill'S ciples of his Catholic religion to the great edification of others. This honor is singular in America since it is not restricted to men of particular fields.
The Laetare Medal is the American counterpart of the ‘ Golden Rose,” a gold ornament blessed each year by the Pope and bestowed on European cities, churches, or personages highly esteemed by the Pope for their Catholic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See. History tells us that the conferring of the “Golden Rose” grew out of the ancient practice of bestowing on Catholic rulers of Europe the “Golden Keys” from St. Peter’s Confessional. This custom of conferring the “Golden Keys” was introduced either by St. Gregory II in 7.16 or St. Gregory III in 750. The “Golden Keys” contained filings from the Chair of St. Peter, and were replaced by the institution of the “Golden Rose” sometime previous to 1050, since Pope Leo IX (1051) spoke of the “Golden Rose” as an ancient institution at his time.
The “Golden Rose” is blessed by the Pope in the Hall of Vestments on Laetare Sunday, followed by a Solemn Mass in the Papal Chapel. It is then carried before the Pope in procession to the sacristy where it is kept until conferred. The custom has existed for about one thousand years and the “Golden Rose” was last conferred on the Queen of the Belgians in 1925, on the occasion of hei- silver wedding anniversary.
Origin of the Medal
In 1883 Professor James Edwards suggested at an informal faculty gather ering that the University take the initiative in acknowledging Catholic
lay leadership in America by conferring an honor similar to that bestowed on European leaders by the Pope.
That same year, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, met with Father Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., then president of the University, concerning this suggestion. At the meeting it was decided to present a gold medal to such an outstanding leader on Laetare Sunday. So it was that this tradition was established at Notre Dame.
In bestowing this honor, Notre Dame has given top recognition to charitable work by choosing eight philanthropists as Laetare Medalists. Since its foundation, Notre Dame has honored fifty-four men and fifteen women as Medalists. The Medalists are included in many fields, but most frequently have been shown to be authors, physicians, publishers, lawyers, soldiers, and diplomats, in that order.
The first man to receive the Laetare Medal was John Gilmary Shea, in 1883, for his outstanding achievements and services as a historian.
One of the most unusual situations occurred in 1887, when the name of the Medalist was not published. Twenty-nine years later, after., his death, Edward Preuss, a convert to Catholicism and a great journalist of unquestionable leadership in St. Louis, was revealed as the choice for 1887. He had requested that his name be withheld because of a vow he had made never to accept any distinction, but to labor unnoticed for- the spread of the Catholic faith.
Dr. John Benjamin Murphy of Chicago was one of the more colorful figures to be honored with the medal in the field of medicine. He received the honoi- in 1918 for his contributions toward the progress of surgery in America, having always let his strong Catholic convictions guide him in his spread abroad of the fruits of his vast surgical knowledge.
One of the most prominent men to receive the Laetare Medal is Joseph Scott, renowned lawyer of Los Angeles, California. He received the
medal in 1918; he is noted for having* the courage of his convictions which he has exhibited persistently as a champion of the faith, and a most ardent worker for the cause of justice.
It is significant that the honor is bestowed on Laetare Sunday, the midpoint of Lent when the Church rejoices in anticipation of the glories of Easter Sunday. On this day, the Church encourages the faithful to persevere in their penance in order to benefit more fully from Christ’s Re> urrection. And so, we may look on the bestowal of the Laetare Medal on this particular Sunday as encouragement and reassurance offered to these men and women to urge- them to persevere in their good works and exemplary life.
Final Mardi Gras Receipts indicate $10,900 Total Profit
Final figures on the Mardi Gras receipts having been received, General Chairman Bill Toohey reported that the total profit was $10,900. This includes the returns from all the weekend activities. The sum is considerably smaller than that compiled by any of the pre-Lenten festivities held here in previous years.
Final disposition of the funds has not yet been decided by the Student Council. Discussion has been going on for several weeks. One of the proposed channels into which a part of the funds would go is a student scholarship fund.
The biggest individual return was $5,500 on the grand award. Closely following upon this was the gala carnival, with a profit of $5,000 being realized.
Several new features of the festival added the remaining sum of $400. Leading function was the big • Mardi Gras Ball at the Palais Royale. This attraction brought in $300. The remaining $100 dribbling into the total profit came from the Sunday activity, the student-participation Minstrel show.
March 21, 1952
23

Maked note, opihis— ^)U Celli

STOP WORRYING ABOUT CKARETrEIRIUTATK^I
1 e
£
J
■7
s-
I y
If
Tt
I
I s I
I & i
__To Ytou -this means
MORE £MOKI»1G MEASURE*


because
PHILIP MORRIS IS ENTIRELY FREE OF A SOURCE OF IRRITATION USED IN ALL OTHER LEADING CIGARETTES!
„hiiup MORRIS


The Scholastic
y5-_ e fc
Golf Clinic Will Open After Easter
Glancz to Present Exhibition In Table Tennis Tomorrow
“An Exciting Novelty,” a table tennis exhibition, will be presented by the Notre Dame Monogram Club tomorrow night at 8:00 in the fieldhouse. Sandor Glancz, world’s double and European a singles champion, will conduct the show.
Glancz will give an exhibition of his trick shot wizardry, and members of the audience will be allowed to participate in the show. Instruction will also be given to table tennis enthusiasts.
Admission will be 25c for students, and 50c for the general public. Tickets can be purchased in the dining hall or from hall representatives of the Monogram Club.
Fencers Close Out Season
By Downing Cincinnati, 21-6
Coach Waltex* Langford’s 1952 Notre Dame fencing squad closed out its 11-match schedule last weekend at Cincinnati, Ohio, with a 21-6 victory ovex* the University of Cincinnati. The win _ was the ninth of the campaign fox- the " Irish swordsmen, who lost only to Michigan State and Illinois in bettering last year’s great record. The team is now beginning preparations for the NCAA set-to at Yale on the 28th and 29th of this month.
The Irish had trouble in the epee, but finally took the event by a slim 5-4 margin. Dave McBride was outstanding for Notre Dame in this duel.
The Bearcats, however, crumbled in the sabre and foil as the Irish, paced by Jim Graham and Jim Jacobs, romped home with 8-1 decisions in each clash.
Student Managers Named By Krause For Next Season
Robert Millenbach has been named head football manager1 fox* the 1952 season. The announcement on Millenbach was made by Athletic Director Edward W. Krause.
SANDOR GLANCZ Trick Shot Artist
Associate managers in football will be John Stoellex* and Emory Dakoske. Othex* managerial appointments named by Krause fox* the school yeax* 1952-53 were: Donald Ross, basketball; Philip Clemens, track; Bernard Hester, baseball, and Edward Graham, minox* sports.
Relay Team Places Third
In K. of C. Meet at Cleveland
Undex* the guidance of Coach Alex Wilson, Notre Dame sent five trackmen to the annual Knights of Columbus track meet last Friday evening in Cleveland.	'
Four* of these five were the members of the Irish mile relay quax*tet composed of Bob English, Justin McDonough, Norm Feltes and Hughes Wilcox. The remaining man who ran fox* Notre Dame was 880-yard specialist John Mohar.
The mile relay event was run in heats, the best time winning the affair. The Irish, although they won theix* particu-
Sessions to Be Open To Experts, Novices
A golf clinic, the first of its kind to be instituted here at Notre Dame, xyill be set up this spring fox* the benefit of the “expex*t” as well as the “duffer.”
Serving as instructors in this undertaking will be golf coach Father Hol-derith, basketball mentox* Johnny Jordan, and Joe Maschella. Jordan, this summer, playing with Moose Krause, chopped 15 strokes off the Athletic Director’s score by giving helpful gameimproving hints. Fathex* Thomas Brennan has been engaged to instruct the southpaw swingers.
Though definite dates have not yet been set, the clinic will open its sessions immediately following Easter vacation and will run fox* two successive two-week periods. The entrants will be divided into groups fox* instruction with about 30 to a class. The classes, held six days a week, will last for 50 minutes each. The times will be from 2 to 4 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and from 10 a.m. to 12 noon on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The entrant will have to furnish his own shoes and clubs. Balls, along with nile and instx*uction books will be supplied at the payment of $1.50 fox* the whole tutoring period, ox- 25 cents per lesson.
Among the aims of the program are basically, of course, to teach the fundamentals of the game as well as the courtesies, therefore to promote better play. Also' there is the hope that a function of this sort will help conditions on the coux-se and prevent the tie-ups which consistently pop up. The key aim or motive, however, is for the good of the students. First come, first serve will be the policy used in regard to enrolling in the clinic. The deadline for registration fox- these classes is April 10.
lax- heat, came in third when the final times of the various competing teams were compared.
John Mohax-, running in a special 1000-yard invitation race, also ended up third.
March 21, 1952
25
THE 1952
Two former champs successfully defended their titles, two other returning champs lost theirs, and six new titlists were crowned in the finals of the 1952 Bengal Bouts last Monday. Each fight offered plenty of action to the delight of a capacity throng in the fieldhouse. In the opening match of the finals, Geary Becker successfully defended his 130-pound crown with a hard-fought victory over Sal Fiorella, 1950 Bengal champion, whom he also defeated in the finals last year. It was a slam-bang battle from start to finish that had the crowd roaring throughout. Becker had a slight advantage in the first round, but had to weather a strong left hook by Fiorella in the last two rounds to come out with the decision.
McAngus Upsets Baute
Finishing up in strong style, Charlie Paquette annexed the 137 pound title with a close decision over Pat Lally. After a slow first round, Lally held a slight advantage in the second canto; but Paquette smothered his opponent under a barrage of lefts and rights in the final round to win.
In another of the evening’s better fights, Alex McAngus upset defending champion Bernie -Baute by an unpopular split decision to take the 147 pound crown. Stinging his opponent with a powerful overhand right in the first two rounds, McAngus built up a lead that the quick-punching Baute could not overcome despite a strong finish against the successful challenger.
Ted Garland won a slugfest over Joe Belfiore in the 155 pound division to continue the fast pace of the previous bouts. Despite a consistent left from his adversary which made his face a bloody mass from the second round on, Garland repeatedly drove his opponent back with a series of rights and lefts to win a unanimous decision.
Chisholm Achieves Goal
Tom Chisholm, often a best man but never a groom, finally achieved his goal when he upset defending champion Dick Windishar in the 160-pound division. Although the decision was unanimous, it belies the closeness of the affair which saw the two fighters exchanging punch for punch with no quarter asked. And in the end the
hard-punching Chisholm was declared the winner over his traditional rival.
Bill Seidler won out over Don Bergman in the 167 pound class in another Pier Six brawl. With both fighters mixing it up well with hard punches, the affair was in doubt till Seidler sent Bergman crashing to the canvas at the end of the second round. Despite a game attempt by Bergman in the final round, Seidler came through with a unanimous decision.
Brown Wins by KO
The only knockout of the evening came at 177 pounds when Joe Brown KO’ed Larry Ash in 48 seconds of the second round in successful defense of his crown. Ash put up an inspired battle in the first round, but a crushing right by Brown floored him for* a nine-count at the start of the second round ; and a left uppercut by the Arizona slugger a moment later sent Ash to the canvas for good.
Jack Bush defeated his brother Joe by a split decision in the heavyweight fracas to close out the Bouts. In what was one of the tamer fights of the evening, Jack built up a lead with a steady left to out-box his larger brother and take the crowd.
Marciano Receives Award
Before the final fight of the evening, Rocky Marciano was given the 1952 Bengal Bouts award as the man who has contributed the most to boxing in the past year. Marciano then awarded the various trophies to the evening’s champions, and served as referee during the heavyweight clash. The annual award for sportsmanship went to Charlie King, a four-year participant in the bouts, who was eliminated in Thursday’s preliminaries.
Lallv Beats Hickey
The semi-finals saw nine well trained fighters advance into the final round of the 1952 Bengal Bouts.
Starting off with the 137-pound class, Pat Lally punched out a unanimous decision over Leo Hickey. Lally, who had to come from behind to gain the victory, opened up the second round with a dazzling series of rights and lefts, to counteract the body blows he was taking from Hickey, and continued on into the -third with enough stamina to earn the decision.

BENGALS
:	In the first match of the two sched-
'	tiled 147-pound bouts, defending cham-
pion Bernie Baute managed to gain a hard fought split decision over contending “Rusty” Vigil. Baute’s final spurt in the last round, as he worked mainly in Vigil’s midsection gave him the ver-i, diet.
Supplying the crowd with the biggest upset of the evening was freshman Alex McAngus, whose TKO of Carl Eck in 2:42 of the second round gave him the honor of meeting Baute in the finals of the 147-round class. Both fighters £ started evenly in the first stanza, with । McAngus drawing blood from Eek’s nose early in the second. The fatal blow came seconds later as Eck was floored by a sharp right to the head.
Garland and Belfiore Win
In the 155-pound bracket, both Ted Garland and Joe Belfiore belted their way to unanimous decisions over John Wooten and Fred Piccini respectively. Garland, in probably the most action-packed brawl of the night, got off the canvas in the first round to blast Wooten in the second and third with a flurry of stiff lefts and rights. In the second round Garland dropped Wooten to his knees with a short right jab to the mouth, and though bleeding at the nose managed to outpunch Wooten in the third to become the eventual winner.
In the Belfiore-Piccini fight it was the case of all give and little take as Belfiore was definitely the aggressor throughout the fight. He kept Piccini against the ropes most of the way while countering constantly with short hooks to his opponent’s cranium.
In the 167-pound class Don Bergman scored. a quick and complete knockout over Ed Sarna in 1:45 of the initial round. Bergman downed Sarna in the first few’ seconds of the fight with a right hook to the jaw. About a minute later Bergman sent a solid right to Sarna’s head that sent him rocking through the ropes.
Bickert Loses
The other 167-pound bout was just the opposite of the preceding one as Bill Seidler earned a split decision over Bob Bickert. The fight was decided in the final three minutes as a hard right by Seidler started Bickert’s nose bleeding, and from then on Seidler maintained his edge to cop the verdict.
The much-looked-forward to 177-pound contest between last year’s 167-pound champ, Joe Brown and hopeful Joe Thomas became the quickest fight of the evening as the highly favored Arizona lightheavyweight scored a TKO over Thomas in 1:07 of the first round. Because of the definite advantage the referee stopped the fight immediately as Brown started off fast, connecting with a long right to the bread-basket of Thomas, following up with a left and right to the head.
Bush Earns Right to Meet Bush
In the last fight of the semifinal round heavyweight Jack Bush out-slugged Jerry Hagman unanimously to earn the right to meet his brother Joe in Monday’s final. In the opening two minutes Hagman kept the powerful left-handed slugger at bay, but became weary in the second and third stanzas as Bush fired away at his adversary’s face, cutting him deeply under the left eye. The valiant Hagman, bleeding from the nose and mouth in the final round, lost the decision to Bush. ’
Windishar Heads Third-Nighters
The third night of the Bengals provided the first appearance of many of the big names of past Bengal Bout competition. Leading the parade of luminaries was Dick Windishar in defense of his 160-pound crown.
The first battle of the evening saw Carl Eck pound out a unanimous decision over Pat Connolly in the 147-pound class. Eck, who performed excellently in the competitive bouts with Purdue, had more than a little trouble with Connolly. Eek’s biggest point getter was his snapping left jab which kept his opponent at bay most of the fight while his boxing ability time and again foiled the round house swings of Connolly. The latter made a gallant try in the final round when he stunned Eck with some sharp rights, but the Pennsylvania lad’s lead was too much to overcome.
In another 147-pound contest, which lacked the action of its predecessor, Rusty Vigil, hampered by the tieing u" tactics of his taller opponent, Don Land-fried, managed to gain the unanimous verdict and move into the semis. Vigil carried the fight to his opponent the whole way.
Fred Piccini, gaining momentum as
SEIDLER, KING AND PAQUETTE
Some retained crowns . . .
he went along, garnered a split decision over Jesse Jolly in the third skirmish of the evening, a 155-pound encounter. There was little choice between the two, even though Piccini drew blood from his foe’s nose in the second round. Piccini’s finishing flurry was the deciding factor.
Chisholm Wins Thriller
In the next match on the card, another 155-pound clash, Ted Garland, a 1950 finalist, took a step toward the goal which he came so close to last year when he socked out a unanimous victory over Bill Guilfoile. The more experienced Garland had his adversary in trouble throughout, continually forcing the fight throwing lefts and rights.
The next two bouts, both in the 160-pound class, provided some of the best Bengal action thus far in ’52. The first of these between Bill Stanley and Tom Chisholm, last year’s runnerup, was a thriller all the way, neither fighter giving or taking any quarter. The first round, both concentrated on the body with the body-punching Chisholm having the edge. Stanley, Novice tourney champion, switched his attack to the head in the second stanza to win a close advantage. The slugging continued in the third when suddenly Stanley was tagged with a wicked right smash and took the required nine count. This knockdown went a long way to enable Chisholm to grab a close unanimous verdict.	"
O’Malley Surprises Champ
Another surprise almost materialized in the other 160-pound fracas when underdog Pat O’Malley gave Champion
28
Dick Windishar a real battle of it though dropping a unanimous decision. The fight started comparatively slow, but in the second the champ reached O’Malley often with a looping left high on the head. Seldom backing up, O’Malley stood toe to toe with the longer armed Windishar and at the start of the third had the titleholder shaky after a two-fisted bombardment. The champ came back late in the round to force his game opponent to take a stand-up nine count. Both contestants seemed weary at the finish.
The final fight of the night proved a rather easy win for Larry Ash over John Sullivan in the 177-pound division. Ash, ever the aggressor, did most of the fighting the first two rounds and dominated the final two minutes despite a comeback effort by Sullivan. Ash, Nov
JACK BUSH AND JOE BROWN . . . some lost them . . .
ice heavy champ, received the unanimous decision.
The second night of preliminaries saw defending champions fall, while the newcomers made it one of the most interesting in years.
The first bout of the evening pitted Sal Fiorella against Tom Magill. Magill won his division championship in the Novice Tournament, but the experience of the veteran Fiorella proved a deciding factor in the early rounds as he received a unanimous nod in the 130-pound class.
Pat Lally pounded his way to a unanimous decision in the first fight in the 137-pound division over Bob Noonan. The fight started very slow as the fighters felt each other out, but the fast
and shifting Lally was just too much £ for Noonan to weather.
Leo Hickey, a four-year veteran in the Bengals, gained the first split decision of the night by turning back Joe Martin. It was a very fast fight, and although both fighters were tired at the bell, Hickey’s left hand was the big factor.
In the last 137-pound bout Charles Paquette and Pat Drew slugged it out furiously for three rounds. Drew started the first round with a flurry of punches, but a strong comeback in the second and third round was enough to gain a unanimous decision for Paquette.
Wooten’s Power Deciding Factor
John Wooten and Jim Mulvaney clashed in the only 155-pound fight. The power behind Wooten’s blows was too much for the slender Mulvaney, and Wooten decisioned him by unanimous vote.
Aaron Dyson, 1950 champion, fell before Bob Bickert in a very evenly matched fight. Dyson’s bolo punches seemed to harass Bickert in the first round, but a strong finish by Bickert overshadowed this, and he took a unanimous decision.
Bill Seidler dampened any hopes of Dan Finn to repeat last year’s performance by dumping the 167-pound cochamp in the only other split decision. The fight was full of clinches but Seidler pulled out of them seemingly gaining the better of the two.
Two TKO’s in Heavyweight Division
The heavyweight division featured three fights and two T.K.O.’s In the
McANGUS, BECKER AND CHISHOLM . . . but all were good fights
The Scholastic
• first scrap Jack Bush completely outclassed John Massa. Bush’s blows often caused Massa to bury his head in his hands. Bush was credited a T.K.O. at the end of the first round.
It took Fred Poehler only 40 seconds of the second round to gain a T.K.O. over Charlie King. Poehler virtually pushed King around the ring, while being awarded three knockdowns before the fight was stopped.	‘
The finale of the bouts the second night of preliminaries was undoubtedly the best of the heavyweight class and perhaps even the most exciting of the night. It matched veteran Jerry Hagman against Terry Sweeney. Hagman received a unanimous decision from the judges.
Connolly Takes Bengal Opener
£ A nine-bout card which was featured by two TKO’s opened the 21st annual Bengal Bouts Tuesday night, March 11, in the fieldhouse.
Three fights were staged in the 147-pound class. In the opener, Pat Connolly piled up enough points to gain a unanimous decision over Gus Freda.
It took Alex McAngus just 1:33 after the bell to cut down fellow-freshman John Egan in the second clash.
In the final bout in the 147-pound division, Don Lundfried gained a split decision over Bob Davidson. Lundfried had his lefty opponent down for an eight count in the third round.
Jolly Wins Bloody Battle
A trio of bouts were staged also in the 155-pound class. In the first of these, Jesse Jolly and Mike Perino fought a bloody battle with no quarters ) asked. Jolly managed to edge out his opponent on a split decision.
The second 155-pound clash saw Bill Guilfoile outbox and outpunch Walt Landry, to win a unanimous decision.
In the third and final 155-pound fracas, Joe Belfiore flashed one of the best jabs of the evening, but had to come back from a third round knockdown to take a unanimous decision from John McGraw.
The lone 167-pound fight on the card saw Don Bergman put Ted Leffler on the canvas in the first round and then win the fight with a TKO 43 seconds after the second round started.
Two 177-pound scraps closed out the first night card. In the first of these, Joe Thomas came out with a unanimous decision in a toe-to-toe battle with Don Rampolla.
In the last go, John Sullivan and Jerry Boyd waged a closely fought bat-w tie with Sullivan being awarded the verdict on a split decision.
By Jack Varley
ROCKY MARCIANO
Very Impressed
People witnessing the Bengal finals last Monday via television should have enjoyed themselves. They had all the excitement of top-flight pugilistic action, all the pageantry a college can put forth and a couple of celebrities that added a little humoi- to the evening.
The eight fights that the television audience saw were far better than the usual card carried on TV and then, as if the fights themselves weren’t enough, the Notre Dame band and Glee Club were thrown in too. Both of them television attractions in their own right.
The Ward-Marciano Show
Added to this was the . show Arch Ward, the sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and heavyweight contender Rocky Marciano put on. After Ward had introduced the Brockton, Mass., fighter as Rocky Graziano, Marciano almost stole the show by getting into the ring and asking w the audience not to be too hard on Mr. Ward. “Why, even my wife has introduced me as Rocky Graziano.”
Marciano was very much impressed with Notre Dame. He said that it was a very nice place and he was glad he had come. “In fact,” he added, “I’d like to send my young brother here if it’s possible.” Rocky was referring to his 16-year-old brother, Louis, whom he considers quite an athlete. “He plays football and boxes. Wants to become a boxer, but I’d like to see him get an education first.”
Joe Louis—His Roughest Opponent
When asked what he considered the roughest fight of his career, he replied without any hesitation that the Louis fight was. He also considers his knockout victory over Joe Louis his greatest experience in the ring.
“Do you think you’ll get a chance at the title?”
“Yes, I do. It would bring a good gate and I’m very anxious for the chance. I imagine two or three months after the Charles-Walcott fight I’ll get a crack at it,” he answered.
Favors Charles Over Walcott
“Whom do you consider the tougher, Walcott or Charles?”
“Well, it’s pretty close. They’re both very good fighters, but I think
I favor Charles just a little bit.”
Marciano was very much impressed with the Bengal Bouts and Bengal light-heavy champion, Joe Brown, in particular.
“He’s very good, very, very good,” he exclaimed. “He ought to be a professional.”
March 21. 1952
29
With the Greatest of Ease
by LOVIS BOVRJAILYr
“That crazy kid is going to break his neck, if he doesn’t watch himself,” cries z. spectator, during the half time at a basketball game. The Notre Dame Gymnastic Club, however, gives another fine exhibition, and they proceed to remove their heavy equipment off the floor.
The primary purpose of this club is to promote an interest in gymnastics on campus and to hasten the formation of a varsity team. Outside of the exhibitions given, which is the club’s favorite activity, it meets other college teams on an intercollegiate level.
The club was organized in the fall of 1950 by Raymond Runkle, who is, at present, the team coach. These twisting tumblers can do anything from a forward roll on a mat to a twisting double somersault on the trampoline. At present, they are just a club, but they hope to become a varsity team in the near future.	•
Open to All Students
It doesn’t take very long to become a tumbler. All that is required is a great deal of interest and a little patience. Membership is extended to all students; no skill is necessary, since all the members of the present squad had no previous experience. Within a period of three or four months some of the members have made notable progress, a few of whom made the first string.
It would seem that a tumbler could very easily receive injuries while performing, but various precautions have
30
been taken to prevent casualties. While in practice, the tumbler uses safety belts, which permit him to perform his stunts while suspended in the air, thereby avoiding any possible mishaps. The belts are suspended from the ceiling, and by the use of the “twisting belt,” the tumbler can turn forward, backward, and sideways at the same time. Another safety method, which is the first thing a tumbler learns, is “spotting.” This means that he must be able to tell when a fellow tumbler is in trouble, and then to act quickly. Several times a member has gone flying over the side of the trampoline, but the rest of the team is always on hand to catch him. The spectator becomes terrified when something like this happens, but the unworried tumblers consider it rather humorous. These stunts require much energy and stamina, and the tumbler must remain in excellent shape; strength and flexibility are more important than coordination, which will come with constant practice.
The captain of the team is Jack Wenning, a senior and the only member of the club majoring in Physical Education. Jack is the only man on the team who has mastered the “Fliffus,” a twisting double somersault on the trampoline. Another notable is Neil Vascon-cellos from Hawaii, who is, according to coach Runkle, the team’s best performer. His specialty is tumbling, but he also performs on the rings and the trampoline.
Once in a while one of the members comes up with a new stunt. Bill San
tini, a junior in engineering, is working-on a one and a half twisting forward somersault on the trampoline, while Ernie DuPraw, a junior science major, came up with a half twisting somersault on the parallel bars. These not only sound hard, but are—and are not recommended for beginners.
During the Western Illinois meet, Ernie, who is, by the way, the team’s best parallel bar man, had trouble holding his hand jStand. "Calmly, he stood up on the bars and brushed his hands, while the crowd watched anxiously. He had become quite angry with himself and completely forgot that there was a meet going on. Finally, after a few moments, he sprang into position and executed a perfect hand stand, receiving a round of applause from the amused spectators. After the meet, the Western Illinois team threw a party and pro- ; vided dates for a dance held later on ; for the Notre Dame Gymnasts. After the dance, the boys were given rooms in fraternity houses for the night. “This , sort of thing is rough on the boys,” j joked coach Runkle, “but they enjoy it.” ?
The future plans of the club include | five meets next year with Northwestern, j Indiana, Navy Pier, Chicago, and West- j ern Illinois State. They hope to be able ] to have some of the meets here in the | Field House, so that the students will | be able to watch their team in action. | “In the meantime,” says Mr. Runkle, | “we will continue to give exhibitions, and we are going to hold an interhall S meet just after Easter.”	S
The Scholastic 8
• Spring Sports Schedule
Athletic Director Edward W. Krause today announced for Notre Dame springsports teams as follows:
BASEBALL: April 9-10 At Camp Breckinridge, Ky.; 12-13 at Fort Knox, Ky.; 15-16 at University of Iowa; 18-19 Ohio State; 21 at Michigan; 22 Purdue; 25-26 Quantico Marines; 30 at Northwestern. May 2-3 Pittsburgh; 6 at Western Michigan, 7 at Michigan State; 11 at Great Lakes; 12-13 at Wisconsin; 15 Western Michigan; 17 at Cincinnati; 20 at Purdue; 21 Northwestern; 22 Michigan; 24 Great Lakes; 28 Michigan State; 30-31 Indiana University.
GOLF: April 19, Indiana; 26 at Purdue; May 3 Louisville; 5 at University of Wisconsin; 8 at Valparaiso; 10 Bradley; 12 Northwestern; 17 University of Iowa; 26 at Michigan State; 27 at Detroit. June 22-28 National Collegiate Tournament at Purdue.
TENNIS: April 19 University of Wisconsin; 26 at Northwestern; 30 Purdue. May 1 at Indiana; 3 at Detroit; 5 at Western Michigan; 9 Pittsburgh; 10 at Marquette; 12 Iowa; 17 Michigan; 19 at Michigan State; 29-31 Central Collegiate Conference Meet. June 23-28 NCAA Meet at Evanston.
OUTDOOR TRACK is: April 5 Texas Relays at Austin; 19 Purdue and Indiana at Notre Dame; 25-26 Drake Relays—Penn Relays. May 3 University of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh; 10 Michigan Normal and Bradley at Notre Dame; 17 University of Michigan at Ann Arbor; 24 Indiana State Meet at Bloomington; 30 Closed CCC Meet at Michigan Normal (Ypsilanti). June 7 a Open CCC Meet at Milwaukee; June 14 V NCAA Meet.
Detroit, Kansas City Lead Kegler Action
As the Kampus Keglers move into their final two weeks of bowling, it looks as if Detroit’s powerful kingpins have won themselves another Gold League crown by virtue of last Sunday’s four point sweep over their nearest competitors, the California Club.
Unable to cope with the all-around class of the Detroiters, the West Coast lads became a victim of some fine bowling by Don Prebenda and Dick Ryal respectively, with the former’s 524 sei’ies leading both teams.
The Motor City lads are now eight points ahead of St. Louis who regained second place by whipping the Italian Club in three successive matches Pac
ing the Saints to four points was Art Henken, whose 502 series was followed by teammates Bob Dougherty with 488.
Since clean sweeps were the order of the day the ASME followed suit by upsetting the highly rated AIEE in four matches to climb into a fourth place tie with the Italian Club. Leo Zmudzin-ski and Bob Rich led the Mechanical Engineers as they rolled 515 and 514 series respectively.
Mort ng over to a much tighter Blue Loop where action has reached a white hot stage, the Kansas City Club finds itself just one point out in front of the second place Irish Club, as a result of the latter’s three point win over the tough Civil Engineers. Sparking the Irishmen to victory was Frank McGinn, whose 449 three game set topped the winners.
While the Irishmen were taking three, the Kansas City boys just managed to split two points with the Pittsburgh Club. Phil Schorer once again paced the Kansans with 482, while Justine Perticone contributed 443 to aid the cause of the Pirates.
In the biggest upset of the day, the 17th place American Chemical Society turned back the Buffalo Club in three out of four matches. Leading the red hot Chemists was Neal Murphy with a neat 512 series. Jimmy O’Brien’s 533 high was tops for the losers.
Golfers Open Season April 19 With Indiana
By BILL NOONAN
The Notre Dame golf squad, under the tutelage of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., commenced practice sessions Tuesday of this week in preparation for their April 19 openei- with Indiana. All in all, ten rough opponents lie in the Irish path, five at home, five away.
Leading this year’s aggregation in the role of captain will be Senior Bill Fischer, hailing from Joliet, Illinois. Fischer, along with Frank Marzolf, another senior and Tom Matey and Joe Moresco, juniors, are the only returning monogram winners. The biggest losses suffered because of graduation were Tom Veech, last year’s captain, Warren Higgins and Tom Klatt.
Competition Is Keen
Keen competition is expected for the remaining berths. Among the hopefuls trying out for these slots are seniors
Jim Jacobs, John Wendly and Phil Everett; juniors Mike Doyle, Larry Eaton, Jim Britt and Jack Powers, and sophomores Jim Terry, Al Gschwind, Tom. Schietz, Jim Kintz, and Jim O’Conner. Bob Filipiak is a top-notch freshman prospect.
To decide who will fill these spots, the linksmen will divide into two groups and play a series of intra-squad matches lasting about ten days. Previous to this, the boys will have had a ten-day period of playing a few holes a day to loosen up. Father Holderith will make the choice on the basis of several factors, including past performances, allround golf ability, and their medal and match play scores. Generally the lowest ten men in these intra-squad trials are the ones that are chosen to represent ND on the greens. Knowledge of the rules is also a determining factor.
Bradley Is Newcomer
This year’s squad is a well-balanced, spirited outfit and should be stronger in the one to six positions than was last year’s varsity contingent.
One of the more vaunted opponents is expected to be Bradley University, a newcomer on the Irish schedule. Pacing the Braves is Bob Togikawa, who deadlocked for the Missouri Valley’s top individual honors last year.
Council Suggests a Student Tax to Subsidize Activities
More information concerning the dollar—per-semester tax proposal was announced at the Student Council meeting Monday night. Previously brought up was a suggestion that each student be taxed one dollar per semester, the sum realized to be administered by the Student Council.
Should this proposal be approved in a contemplated student poll and by the administration, and then put into effect this September, $10,000 a year will be available for greatly-reduced Student Council Dance bids, increased services to campus clubs, and big-name bands at every dance.
In addition, the Council will be able to appropriate adequate sums for worthy functions, without having to curtail allotments for necessary expenditures.
The fund realized by the tax would also take away the burden of those who attend the Student Council dances, as the Council treasury now primarily relies upon proceeds from those dances.
31
March 21, 1952
Paul Zalecki
• (Continued from Page 20)
The IHC, however, is not the entire answer: there are other important activities that -this body would find difficult to handle effectively—the campus clubs. The present council does little for them but audit their books. This is unfoi-tunate, for the 80-some clubs form an important part of campus life; the mere fact that students belong to them proves that they are interested. These clubs should not be neglected. Since the IHC could not help them effectively, another way is needed. The answer is an Inter-Club Council, whose functions would be to aid the clubs, to coordinate theii- activities, and to provide for a useful mutual exchange of ideas.
The ICC takes into account the fact that each club is an autonomous unit. Yet numerous instances arise when clubs with similar .interests are able to work together, combine their efforts, and serve their members better. The Engineering Advisory Board is an excellent example of this idea, and the ICC would carry this plan one step further. All the campus clubs would be organized into groups similar to the Engineering Advisory Board.
The following is a workable division of the clubs and organizations: academic, commerce, engineering, science, apostolic, geographical, and majoi- publicity organs. Because of the importance that the Scholastic, Dome, and WND have, they deserve a voice in student government and would form one of the major groups.
Representatives of the clubs in each of the seven divisons would choose two students to sit on the ICC. This would be the body concerned with campuswide coordination and exchange of ideas. It also provides the needed organization to bring these clubs into contact with other universities. The ICC also would promote worthwhile programs which, are difficult, or impossible, for the individual clubs to carry out. Its purpose, then, is to serve the clubs and to aid them in carrying out their interests.
Commerce Clubs an Example
Under this program, moreover, the club members would be able to come in closei' contact with the faculty, as the Council of Commerce Clubs is attempting to do right now. Each of the clubs has a faculty moderator. The heads of the College have shown an active interest in the Commerce clubs. All parties concerned can benefit from this plan: the clubs become more active,
32
the students and the faculty get to know each other better, and the added interest adds to the worth of the College as a whole.
In addition to the IHC and the ICC there would be a Campus Regency Board, which would be the final authority, the “Supreme Court,” in student government at Notre Dame. The court of final appeal for any of the lower parts of the structure, it would have a general control ovei* the finances of the IHC and the I,CC and would be empowered to investigate their activities. As a group of supreme importance, its members would include the four class presidents and men chosen by the IHC and the ICC.
The members of the CRB also would sit on a student-faculty-administration board. Here is where their important work would come in, for they would be the needed rapport between the students, the faculty, and the administration.
Though this plan has taken a little time to explain, it is quite simple. This revision of student government calls for an Inter-Hall Council, and Inter-Club Council, and a Campus Regency Board. The students on the last one have a general control over the other two and also sit on the student-faculty-administration board. The advantage of this set-up is that not only can it be put into operation with a minimum of effort but also that it is a facile organization which can be expanded easily. It also takes into consideration conditions as they actually are on campus and strives to work from there. Unlike the other proposed student government, it mav not be the best theoretical one, but it surely is the best practical one for Notre Dame. There is a big difference between what ought to be theoretically and what can be practically.
Stresses Practical Results
We all know what we want from student government, and it is not elaborate organization. We want a group which will know the interests of the student body and which will carry them out effectively. We want an organization which will boast not of committee meetings but of results.
Cardinal Newman’s idea of developing the “whole man” is fine, but you do not develop him—as the other plan proposes—by dividing him into four segments and then by putting each part under a commissioner who is lopsidedly interested in only one of the four ends of a university. You develop the “whole man” by setting up a student government which has these ultimate ends in mind but which can achieve them
through the proximate ends, or needs, £ । that exist at Notre Dame. You do not I forget about reality and concentrate - i upon theory if you want practical resuits. The theoretical is just a guide I for a practical organization of student government.	:
The only thing that now remains is : for all of us to become actively inter- ( ested in student government. What has j been discussed here is just a working skeleton; the Academy of Political Science is drawing up a constitution embodying these main ideas. The suggestions of all the students, however, are wanted, and needed, to make any change a success. Look over these two proposals, and make your own conclusions as to whether they will work.
There will be a discussion of these two plans April 3, in the Law Auditorium. ■ Hope to see you there.
Jim Garvin
(Continued from Page 21)
Senate: Student Body President, VicePresident, Secretary and Treasurer.
2.	The Chairman of the Blue Circle.
3.	The Senior Delegate of the NFCCS.
4.	The President of the YCS.
5.	The Commissioners of the four Commissions called for in the new constitution.
6.	Three Senators, one a College Senator, one a Hall Senator, one a Class Senator.
A Ready Execution
Each of these Cabinet Members (except the Class, College and Hall members) would head a specific department, ready to execute tasks assigned it by the Cabinet. This centralization of the heads of the key campus organizations, on the Cabinet, would prevent any overlap of activity.
For example, if the Senate decided that a coffee-drinking meet should be held, the Cabinet would discuss the matter and then toss it to the Cabinet member- whose unit is best suited to do the job.
Let’s take a look at each of these executive units which would be all set “to roll” along predetermined lines.
1. The Blue Circle is Notre Dame's only Honor Society. It exists to perform the very special jobs of Student Government, e.g., Frosh orientation, elections, welcoming visitors, campus tours, and other “big” jobs. Its members are men selected for their extra-curricular prowess and “results-producing” qualities. The Circle is also the official guardian of Notre Dame student spirit and tradition.	.
• 2. The NFCCS has a dual role in
The Scholastic
|| Student Government: one external, the other internal. The “off-campus” function consists of representing the Notre Dame student body at regional and national conventions with other NFCCS affiliated colleges. The NFCCS internal mission is “coordination of campus clubs.” This is accomplished by classifying clubs into “interest groups,” e.g., the NFCCS Apostolic chapter is composed of representatives from the Knights of Columbus, Third Order of St. Francis, YCS, and the Liturgy Club. Other such groups are science, commerce, and inter-American affairs chapters. The NFCCS Campus Council coordinates theii' activities and supplies them with new ideas from similar clubs in other- NFCCS Schools.
3.	The YCS at Notre Dame exists to remind us that we are “students,” and £ as such have responsibilities both to ourselves and to our student community. Its work in the main consists of “corralling” community problems, studying them, and then offering solutions that will eradicate them.
4.	The Secretary of the Student Senate would head the Secretariat, a department handling all the clerical matters of Student Government, e.g., correspondence, publicity, public relations, Student Senate office, etc. He would be assisted by a paid scribe and the Secretaries of the four classes. (As things stand now, the Class Treasurers and Secretaries are merely honorary positions with no clear-cut responsibilities— a very repugnant situation in this author’s eyes).
5.	The Financial Department, headed by the Senate Treasurer, would keep the financial records, issue Senate-approved appropriations, audit club treasuries, etc. He would be assisted by the. Treasurers of the four- classes. The Senate would hire an Accounting major to audit the records of the financial department regularly as a Senatorial check on the executive branch.
6.	The Hall Council Department would be headed by the Senate’s VicePresident. It exists to guarantee a smooth-functioning Hall Council System. The Class “Veeps” would serve as sub-chiefs in the system.
7,	8, 9, 10. The Four Commissions is the third major innovation in the Revision Committee’s Constitution. They would be called the Academic, Spiritual, Social and Physical (Athletic), in line with the four aspects of Cardinal Newman’s “whole man.” Each would handle tasks peculiar to its nature. A Commissioner, appointed by the President, sub-a ject to Senate confirmation, would be responsible to the Cabinet for the activities of his Commission. Each Commis
March 21, 1952
sion would operate under the provisions of a Charter ratified by the Senate. These Charters would specify the aims, officers, membership and all else needed to guarantee a fluent agency for student government tasks. Each Commission would perform the annual duties contained in its Charter, plus any new jobs assigned it by the Cabinet.
Some Annual Jobs
Here are but a few of the annual jobs that would be done by the Commissions. The Academic Commission would administer- such activities as the “Choose your Major” program, campus lecture series, programs to improve studentfaculty relations, and similar projects. The Social Commission would administer all dances, picnics, smokers, talent shows, student musicals, tea parties, concert series, etc. Intermural sports, cheer-leaders, non-varsity sports and cafeteria committee work would be the concern of the Physical Commission. The Spiritual Commission would work hand in hand with Father Grimm throughout the school year and would be responsible for the success of the May Day Ceremony, Catholic Press Drive, and so forth.
Service to Organizations
Besides its duties to the Student Body per se, a Student Government should also be at the service of the Student Organizations. Today these Student Council services consist of club registration, reservation of meeting rooms and Communion breakfast dates, and auditing club books through Ernie Buckley’s Blue Circle Audit Committee. Conclusion: the Student Council has neglected the Notre Dame Campus Clubs. It is not doing enough for them. It should make available such general services as movie albums and speakers’ bureaus to spice their meetings, assist holiday transportation activities and many others.
This inadequacy exists because the Council has not established channels of communications with the bulk of these organizations. And the Council has not set up means for- all these clubs to commute with each other (I say “all” because the NFCCS has taken great strides in this direction). Proof is evidenced by examining any campus bulletin board. Some nights, there is nothing going on. On others, you can take your pick of twenty-five club activities.
The Council took the first step to alleviate this injustice last semester when the Campus NFCCS Council was directed to conduct a survey of all- campus organizations as to their size, purpose, activities, and self-estimation. Only 56%
of the clubs bothered to reply. The NFCCS then proceeded to evaluate and then categorize all the clubs, i.e., placing . each one into a particular interest group similar to those previously mentioned.
A Definite Place
The Revision Committee Constitution capitalizes on this survey by giving each club a definite spot in the Notre Dame Student Government picture. There would be a council of clubs attached to each of the four commissions, e.g., the Presidents of all the Academic Clubs would form the Council of Academic Clubs, supei-vised by the Academic Commission. And likewise for the Presidents of the Spiritual, Social (Geographical, primarily) and Physical clubs. Every campus club would fit into at least one of these four general categories. Some clubs would be represented in two or more. For example, the K. of C. has both social and spiritual functions. Other clubs would merge into the Student Government scheme elsewhere. E.g., the Press Club and the Advertising Clubs are “naturals” to work with the Secretariat. The Accounting and Finance Clubs with the Financial Department—the Political Science Academy as an advisor to the Cabinet on. technical matters. Where would your club fit into this plan?
Besides being in a position to be better served by student government, the campus clubs would also be making direct contributions to the Student Community by offering advice, by participating in general activities, or by their specialized natures.
And there it is. A new Student Government Constitution with four innovations: a truly representative Student Senate; a clear-cut division of the legislative and administrative functions; a dutiful eye towards the campus clubs; and the four Commissions. Has anything been overlooked? Let us know soon.
You might call this Master Plan a “Summa Extra-Curricula.” An analysis shows it to be an actual synthesis or integration of the present hodge-podge of Notre Dame extra-curricular activity into a progressive, purposeful whole, and it does not disturb or infringe upon the operations of any existing organiza-zation; rather it serves to complement each of them.
In closing, the Committee urges all underclassmen to be especially con--cemed with this new Student Government Charter—it’s your baby! If accepted, it takes office next Fall, when the present seniors will be alumni of Notre Dame.
Stand by for further developments!
* *
-----—----------------------------------------- By Bill Riley
In our time we have seen the catch phrase burgeon and spread, from the narrow field of advertising to the wider breadth of ethical conduct taken as a whole. The catch phrase, an interesting intellectual, or anti-intellectual phenomenon, is a creeping form of intellectual paralysis, an unconscious form of intellectual dishonesty, or, to phrase it more strongly, intellectual prostitution.
Like An Echo
What is bad about the catch phrase is not, of course, the fact that it is a pithy and terse mode of expressing a truth, but that it is uttered without reflection, somewhat like an echo, or perhaps better, a recording machine. And the result of this thoughtless (in the truest sense of the word) parroting is that the truth is eventually distorted.
One example of a catch phrase that I, for one, am sick to the point of nausea of hearing is this: “Well, you’re in college now, and it’s good that you have ideals. Of course, when you’ve been out in the world awhile, you’ll see the impossibility of holding fast to them and become a realist like me.” This is usually spoken by one who considers himself a man of the world, a weary and worldly-wise member of society.
Good For College Only.-
Not Much Good at All
Now, it seems to me that if ideals are only good for college, or for college and six months, or two years afterwards, ideals are not worth much at all.
But the actuality seems to be that most people do lose their “ideals” after a few years. The possibilities seem to be: Either the ideals are no good, or the conception of them in the minds of the holders are wrong.
ideals Are All Right, But . . .
Nobody maintains, at least here, that the ideals are no good. In fact, most of those who give you the above words, will say, if driven to it, that the ideals are all right. In fact, the ideals are good. They do not seem to see the unreason of holding two contradictory statements together in their mind.
What I think is wrong is that the ideal-holder forgets somewhere along ■the line that what he is thinking about are ideals. When he does not see the ideals realized immediately in actuality,
34
he rejects them. This is an extremely illogical way of behaving. Because, it seems to me, it is in the very nature of an ideal that it “stands above” reality, acts as a sort of magnet, or pole star, towards which we try to guide actuality.
Realism Is Unrealistic
And another wrong, I think, is the modern conception of realism. To see only what is, and ignore what should be is not realism, because it ignores absolutes, which are also a part of reality. What it comes down to is this: the meaning of the term realism has become so narrowed as to become distorted and finally become, unrealism. The modern realist is one who turns his back on a most important segment of reality.
What Is An Ideal?
It is a very delicate business, I think, this retaining of ideals. It requires an accurate knowledge of just what an ideal is. On the one hand, if an ideal is considered as impossibly remote from reality, it becomes empty of content, meaningless. On the other hand, to expect the ideal to be realized always, or even most of the time, in actuality, is to be foredoomed to disappointment. Instead, it must be held before and above reality, it must be the vantage point from where we judge reality, it must be the measuring stick against which we size up reality. Otherwise, reality (in the narrow sense) becomes meaningless, a wild and senseless, purposeless hodgepodge of activity.
Peace Contest
(Continued from Page 11) liminaries to be held early in April in the Law Auditorium.
An oration of seven to nine minutes speaking time, on a topic selected by the individual, is required to qualify for the Breen Medal for Oratory, awarded annually to the Notre Dame student who excels in oratory.
Contestants for the Freshman Oratorical Contest to be held in May are now being registered, in the Department of Speech office, room 328 of the Main Building. Deadline for applicants, aiming at the first prize of $10, is April 26.
Notre Dame STUDENTS Welcome to		
	LMHH'S hu-art photo shop	
	128 W. Washington St.	
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES J. Trethewey JOE THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bld?.		
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building South Bend By appointment	Ph. 4-5661		
4
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
HEW XOW AIR TOUR.ST RATES Effective May lit.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO SHANNON om> $433.80 LONDON* Only 486.00
PARIS om> 522.00
FRANKFORT Omy 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon /fares subject to government approval. Good low-cost meals available on olonej
• KLM Royal Dutcn Airlines	I
| 572 Fifth Avenue, New York 19. N 1 I I Please send full Information on new ■
KLM Air Tourist Rates to Europe I
■ NAMb  ......................... I
| ADDRESS ................... |
I--------
The Scholastic

College Men!
PILOT
AIRCRAFT OBSERVER

CHOOSE A CAREER
in the U.S. Air Force
Aviation Cadet Program Offers Special Opportunities for Collegians Now Preparing for Military Service
Here is a real man-size opportunity! You can choose—immediately—between being a Pilot or Aircraft Observer in America’s swiftly-expanding Air Force. The Air Force encourages candidates to stay in school and graduate. However, seniors and students with two years or more of college who anticipate early entrance into military service can insure their future and serve their country best by applying for Aviation Cadet Training today. You receive the finest training and experience when you fly with the U. S. Air Force—experience that pays off in later years.
WHO MAY APPLY
AGE—Between 19 and 26% years. EDUCATION—At least two years of college. MARITAL STATUS—Single.
PHYSICAL CONDITION—Good, especially eyes, ears, heart, and teeth.
HOW TO QUALIFY
3. Accomplish Flying Aptitude Tests and enlist for two years only!
The Selective Service I Act awards you a four-‘ month deferment while _ awaiting class assignment.
5. Immediate assignment to Aviation Cadet Training Classes starting May 27, July 19, August 19 and October 2, 1952.
I. Take transcript of college credits and copy of birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station.
6. Attend Aviation £ Cadet Training School for one year—either as Pilot or Aircraft Observer. Get $105 monthly plus ' food, housing, uniforms, and other benefits.
2. Appear for physical examination at your nearest Air Base at Government expense.
7. Graduate and win your wings! Commissioned as a second lieutenant, you begin earning $5,000 a year. In addition, you receive $250 uniform allowance and a 30-day leave with pay.
WHERE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. S. Air Force Base or U. S. Army—U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station or write direct to Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. $. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.



TO CHESTERFIELD
"a	•*	• *» *»	«’ «	—' ' :
* -a»*	Jt * ? - - * ' i	-
*1
™ "CHESTERFIELDS ARE PROVIDED WP EXCLUSIVELY on all United’s Stratocruiser flights to Honolulu. We have found our passengers prefer Chesterfields.
I
Stewardess Audrey Tories
5
A 20th Century-Fox Production Color by Technicolor ■ ;
•* DALE ROBERTSObJ? ’.
;.. gets his Chesterfields fron?g
t H
Wherever you go-
•FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
WGAR ETTES V
LIGGETT t MYERS TOBACCO CO r^r-r~—------- _ ..
VICE PRESIDENT, UNITED AIR UNES
i
I /.

See him starring in 'LYDIA BAILEY'
CSr MILDNESS, plus _____________
No Unpleasant After-taste*
..AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT!


^*7 ;
if
Copyright 1952, Liggett & Mye«s To>aCCP<.£q.
I