LETTER
Shrink Control
100 percent Virgin Wool
Adler Hose
For your summer sports wear, you'll find these Adler all-wool white hose ideal for more reasons than one. They're shrink controlled .... comfortable to the end because they retain original size.
M THE CORNEK... MKHI6MI ( MSHM&TON
REPORT ON MARRIED VETS
Sir:
The Married Vets Club of Notre Dame is probably the most recently organized group under the shadow of the Golden Dome. With . Father Ted Hes- -- -burgh as the club’s moderator and Mr. and Mrs. F. X. Bradley, Jr., assisting him immeasurably, the Club sponsored a get-together on the evening of May 7th at the Rockne Memorial Lounge. A surprising number were on hand, and obliged by filling out questionnaires for the club’s Statistical Committee. The “Ladies of Notre Dame” generously served refreshments, and a pleasant evening was enjoyed by all.
A basic Steering Committee was formed, and plans are in the making for a retreat in June, a picnic to Michigan, and many other activities. Final preparations were laid for the “B. 0. Plenty and Gravel Gertie” dance on May 24th. It will be held at the American Legion Hall in Mishawaka, and will be from 8 until ?? The Affair will be one accentuated by old clothes, and no one will be allowed in if they are anywhere at all dressed up. No shaves and no make-up, folks! Mr. and Mrs. Jack Whitely will act as chairmen.
Special reserved tickets for the "Mikado” performance in Washington Hall on May 29th were arranged for by Mr. F. X. Bradley, Jr. Only 140 tickets were secured which members may obtain at the Athletic Office. . . .
Mr. and Mrs. Bill Harley were ap- ' pointed to head the Job Placement Committee, while Mr. and Mrs. "Black John” Murphy are to handle the Public Relations and Publicity.
A news sheet covering plans for additional housing, medical care, job placement, and future activities is being prepared at the moment. Any suggestions and helpful hints will be greatly appreciated and may be addressed to J. F. Murphy, 903 Harrison Ave., South Bend 16, Ind. (Phone 2-5856)
Additions to our mailing list are being anticipated, so if any married vet (married at present, that is!) wishes to become a member, look for the bulletins on campus "with the names and addresses of the Steering Committee members. Soonest possible contact will be made, and we will be only too glad to have you with us.
Be on the look-out for future bulletins and how about giving us a hand? There are many more committees to be formed, and a good deal more work to be done. Let’s make this the happiest and best result-producing club in Notre Dame’s history.
John F. Murphy.
2
Ill IKI PARADE
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
Parasite—a person who goes through a revolving door without pushing.
—Creghtonian
“What are those marks on your nose?”
Look who's here again!
This semester as last we are being plagued by the powers-that-be who insist that in the student publication of this University there is no place for certain subjects. Henceforth, these items will be censored even more forcibly than in the past. In order of importance they are, first, . . ., second, . . ., then in close succession,	and ....
(That still leaves us the weather though, doesn’t it?). Jhe only persons happy about this state of affairs will be the . . . (can’t mention that either) from across the highway. We’ll have them know, though, before they go home with any rancor in their hearts, that they are still our dearest friends, even if we are not allowed to say so in so many words.
To start off our bloodless column, then, we’d like to quote a poem from the St. Francis Jongleur:
Staunch, straight, stalwart it stands, Savoring the satiable joke.
Silent, soulful, saddened we stare, Our nickel slides in, and—no coke.
Vets at Georgetown University in order to gather a little pocket money have formed the Universal Baby Sitters, Inc., which handles anything from changing diapers to taking Junior for a walk through the Zoo. . . . Their motto? “Silence Without Violence.”
WJOTW Department — clipped from the Butler Collegian:
Neighbor: “Do you have a bottle opener?”
Parent: “Yeah, but he’s away at college.”
❖
At Illinois, a club has been formed by those men who are either too lazy to shave or want to grow a beard. It’s called the Little Shaver’s Club. . . . It’s rumored Gillette will sue.
The saddest words of tongue and pen, May be perhaps, “It might have been.” The sweetest words we know, by heck, Are only these, “Enclosed find check!”
—Detroit Varsity News
Anyone can play Bridge, but it takes a cannibal to know a good hand.
—Ball State Neivs
❖
Except for the fact that the subject of ... is now tabooo, (ranking first on the list) we should like to tell you about that parade around the Maypole recently enacted by the inmates of “The Rock.”
“Those were made by glasses.”
“You should learn to tip your head back, then it would pour out easier.”
—Wyoming Branding Iron
❖
The Daily Kansan quotes Eli Culbertson as saying of our Secretary of State, “the State Department fiddles while Byrnes roams.”
3
^he ZNotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
Howies
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
«n«ti ite i itm itti itm mi mu mm i i itiiittmmmiiimiiiiii ■ i limn mm i iimiiihiuii mmiimmmmmmi
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor Sports Editor
- Navy Editor
Feature Editor News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	.	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	- Campus Clubs
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL -	-	- Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA	’
(Cover by Bill Braun)	•
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOU BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER
LEO BLABER
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN, TOM GARGAN -	- Circulation
M. E. VARGA	_	_	_	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Eepresented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
There are many students who spend their four years here at Notre Dame neither heralded nor criticized . . . their outstanding contributions to our University are noticed for a few fleeting moments and then forgotten . . . obscured by the whirling tempo of college life . . . Therefore we think it right and just that we should mention from week to week a few of our graduating seniors so that ‘the boys in the back room’ will know of them in lieu of having met them ... a matted blond-haired youth was commissioned to write an article on the death of our famous mascot, ‘Clashmore Mike’ . . . until the time he had received this assignment he was a good if only average reporter’ on the Notre Dame Scholastic . . . Yet when “Know Your Notre Dame,” a leaflet that was taking the place of the Scholastic due to the paper shortage that semester, made its appearance the entire campus realized what “Clashmore Mike” stood for . . . The author of the article had discovered his forte, and in discovering it, had written one of the most eloquent commentaries ever printed here at N. D. . . . His poignant style appealed to the emotions and plucked the heartstrings of many a reminiscent old faculty member ... If James F. McCarthy had done nothing else in the way of extra curricular activities while at Notre Dame than write the never-to-be-forgotten “Clashmore Mike” . . . it would have been more than enough . . . but now he goes on to finish his work here by taking upon himself the job of managing, editing and rewriting the Graduation Issue of The Scholastic this semester . . . This will be his journalism swan song and from Jim’s past record we know it will be ably done ... so we of the Green Banner say “hats off” to you Jim . . . and Bon Voyage on the stormy trip of life. . . .
❖
From time to time disciplinary action catches up with the habitual violators . . . and they are called upon the carpet to give an account of their misdemeanors . . . last week, however, the PD veered from the prescribed articles of the Little Green Book and quizzed three unfortunates . . . caught in Max Adler’s without their Browser’s Card . . . and while explanations are in order . . . maybe some one can get Jack McGrath to give a first hand report of the fire he attended Friday nite. . . .
❖
Here and there . . . The mail being delivered at nine p.m. in Dillon Hall . . . Carl Zwisler coming out of church three times Sunday to be mugged by the Hollywood news cameraman . . . Bill Leavey handling tryouts for a new radio play entitled, “Attention Donahue,” starring Tom Devanny as “Tyrone Hotdog” . . . Saturday nite bull sessions going full swing in George Dickson’s room and running into the wee hours of the A. M. ... Joe Haas overheard saying to his date, “Honey, my job is for the birds” . . . Bill Welsh letting everybody know that he is “mighty proud” of the new yellow sweater that his wife had knitted for him . . . over half of the “Campused” staying for a second showing of State Fair at Washington Hall Saturday nite . . . the music majors fighting tooth and nail against surrendering one of their pianos to Sorin Hall porch to be used for noon concerts. . . .
♦
It appears to those who listened (Continued on page 28)
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 9
MAY 24, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ND Receives $100,000 Hearst Gift
Vet Housing Secured
For Winter Semester
Emergency housing suitable for 117 University of Notre Dame married war veterans and their families will be available at the start of the September semester by terms of a contract signed last Saturday by officials of the University and the federal public housing authority. The agreement culminates negotiations begun by Notre Dame last fall to obtain homes for hundreds of married veteran students unable to find residences in South Bend, who will make up the largest enrollment in the school’s history.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, in announcing the project said that the buildings will be erected on 13 acres of University property on both sides of the Bulla road just east of the Juniper road. The latter road circles the Notre Dame stadium on the east and is intersected by the Bulla road just north of the navy drill hall. The 39 barracks-type buildings which will be converted into 117 two-bedroom apartments are now at a prisoner of war camp at Weingarten, Mo.
“These buildings will be panelized and moved to the selected site as soon as preparations now in progress are completed,” Father O’Donnell said. “While the major cost of demounting, moving, and reconstructing the buildings will be borne by the FPHA, there will be an expense to the University of between $35,000 and $40,000 for the installation of water mains, sewers, and roads. These expenses are not recoverable in rents and virtually constitute a gift from the University to the married veterans who •will find housing within the project.”
The dwelling units consist of a living room, two bedrooms, kitchen and bath. Insofar as possible, Father O’Donnell said, they will be equipped with basic furniture.
History Fund Set Up
By Hearst Foundation
The Hearst Foundation’s gift of $100,000 foi* the establishment of scholarships in American history at Notre Dame has been accepted officially on behalf of the University by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president.
In announcing Notre Dame’s acceptance of the gift, Father O’Donnell made the following statement:
“Notre Dame is very grateful to Mr. Hearst and the trustees of the Hearst Foundation for this handsome benefaction.
“In an age when pseudo-liberals are attempting to destroy the American heritage, it is consoling to know that certain far-seeing men believe that this heritage should be further enhanced by intensive study and research. The benefaction will be used largely to promote graduate studies in American history.”
The $100,000 scholarship fund given to Notre Dame is part of gifts aggregating $750,000 presented by the Hearst Foundation. Martin Huberth, president of the Foundation, revealed that $400,000 had been given to the University of California, $50,000 to Oglethorpe University, $100,000 to the National Jewish Hospital at Denver,* Colo., and $100,000 to the Los Angeles County Museum.
The check for $100,000 was presented
SMALLER SCHOLASTIC ISSUE
Due to the holiday granted students on Ascension Thursday, next Friday's Scholastic will be only a 20 page issue instead of the usual 36.
Staff writers are advised that the holiday necessitates an advanced schedule. Columns and time copy must be turned in at the editorial office in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall on Sunday night The deadline for all other copy is Monday night
Memorial Day Services to Honor N D War Dead
Jim Webb, president of the Veterans’ Club, announced late Wednesday that the Memorial Day program suggested by the Veterans’ Club had been approved by University officials. Since Memorial Day this year falls on Ascension Thursday, a holy day of obligation, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., has granted the students a holiday.
The Veterans’ Club has asked Father O’Donnell to celebrate a Field Mass in memory of the Notre Dame men who died in the last war and all previous wars. The Mass will be celebrated on the site of the planned Memorial Chapel which is mid-way between Badin Hall and the post office. The students will hear Mass on the lawn between this spot and Dillon Hall.
All the students are urged to receive Communion at this Mass for the honored dead. The time of the Mass will be announced in the Daily Bulletin next week.
—Joe Cheney
to Father O’Donnell by George Hearst, a trustee of the Foundation.
Randolph Apperson Hearst presented a $400,000 check to Robert Gordon Sproul, president of the University of California, after Mr. Sproul had requested funds to enlarge and improve the Greek theater on the campus. The gift to Oglethorpe was tendered to- the president, Philip Weltner, by John Randolph Hearst, an alumnus of the uni- • versity.
A $100,000 check was presented to the National Jewish Hospital by William Randolph Hearst, Jr., at a dinner at the Waldorph-Astoria Hotel in New York. The hospital is a free non-sectarian tuberculosis institution, one third of whose patients are from New York.
The money donated to the Los Angeles County Museum by David Hearst will be used to purchase objects of art and antiquities.
5
Name ND Prof Rochester Physics Dept. Chairman
Dr. George Briggs Collins, professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been named by the University of Rochester, N. Y., as chairman of its department of physics to direct important postwar developments in that field, Alan Valentine, president of the eastern university has announced.
On leave from Notre Dame since February of 1941, Dr. Collins has been a leader in the National Defense Research council’s radiation laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., and will begin his new duties in September of this year.
Dr. Collins succeeds Dr. Lee A. DuBridge, head of the Rochester physics department for the last 12 years, who has been named president of the California Institute of Technology. The two were closely associated during the war in the radiation laboratory and out of this grew the emphatic recommendation by Dr. DuBridge to the officers and trustees of the University of Rochester that his successor be Dr. Collins.
In September, 1933, Dr. Collins went to the University of Notre Dame as instructor in physics, rising through the ranks to a full professorship. At Notre Dame he carried on research in the field of nuclear physics and more specifically with the interaction of electrons with nuclei.
Dr. Collins attended the University of Maryland from 1924 to 1927 and then transferred to the graduate school of Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, where he obtained his doctorate in physics in 1931 under the so-called “new plan” which obviated the degrees of B.S. and M.S. For the two years prior to going to Notre Dame he did research in Raman spectre and molecular absorption in the far ultraviolet, studying under Professor R. W. Wood and G. H. Dieke.
Accountants Elect
Prof. Dincolo President
James Dincolo, University of Notre Dame professor, was elected president of the northern Indiana chapter of the Indiana Association of Certified Public Accountants last Friday in the Hotel Lasalle. Other officers named were Donald J. Easley, South Bend, vice-president; Lee L. Ellis, South Bend, secretarytreasurer; John L. Yarian, Warsaw, and Cecil J. Kistler, Elkhart, directors.
Maurice H. Stans, senioi' partner of Alexander Grant & Co., Chicago, the principal speaker, said, “small business
Savoyards to Present 4 Performances of "The Mikado" in Washington Hall
By JOE CHENEY
The entire cast of "The Mikado"
Next Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights “The Mikado” will be presented by the Savoyards under the capable direction of Professor Cecil Birder, head of the speech department at Notre Dame. Mr. Birder has devoted all his afternoons and evenings for the past month to his sixth Gilbert and Sullivan operetta.
The cast was auditioned several weeks ago and hopes that their efforts will be appreciated when the curtain goes up at 8:15 Monday night. It includes: Koko, Ralph E. Thorson, a sophomore, majoring in science who played in “Patience,” “Pirates of Penzance,” “lolanthe,” “Trial by Jury,” and “H.M.S. Pinafore;” Pooh Bah, John W. Owen, a junior in the college of commerce, who appeared in “Pirates of Penzance” and numerous high school plays and operettas; Pish Tush, John F. Commerford, a freshman pre-med student whose only singing experience has been in the shower; Nanki Poo, Vincent M. Meli, a senior in the college of commerce whose last effort was
neither needs nor wants government
handouts of money or advice.”
Declaring that a strong community of small business is important to the pres
in “Jack Frost” while in the fifth grade; The Mikado of Japan, William E. Mills, an NROTC student who is enjoying his first chance in front of the footlights; Katisha, June Anderson, resident of South Bend and choir director of the Stull M. E. Church, has appeared in “Pinafore,” “Patience,” “Trial by Jury,” and “Ruddigore,” all with the Notre Dame Savoyards; Yum Yum, Jeannie Papandria, a resident of South Bend for whom Mr. Herman DeVries, Dean of the Critics of Chicago, prophesied a brilliant future when she sang with him; Pitti Sing, Irene Kuzmic, a resident of South Bend and winner of the Michigan City Music Festival Contest which was affiliated with the Chicago Music Festival Contest; Peep Bo, Patricia Czolgasz, a senior at St. Joseph’s Academy who appeared in “Ruddigore” with the Savoyards.
All seats for “The Mikado” have been reserved for all four nights. Students may pick up their reservations at the athletic office.
ervation of the competitive system, Mr. Stans said that the problems of small business are the concern of big business as well.
6
4 Notre Dame Delegates to Attend National NFCCS Council in Boston
At a meeting of the Local Council of the National Federation of Catholic College Students held last Sunday morning, Pat O’Meara, Jerry Feeney, Frank Grimaldi and Thomas McCaffrey were elected Notre Dame’s delegates to the national council meeting of the NFCCS to be held in Boston on June 12, 13 and 14.
Plans are being drawn up by the local Council to present before the national council a proposal that a National Commission for Veterans Affairs be established in the Federation with the chairmanship going to the Notre Dame Veterans Club. McCaffrey and Feeney will represent the local club in making the proposal and O’Meara, as president of the Ft. Wayne Region of the NFCCS, will present the petition. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of the vets club, will make the trip to Boston and will add much weight to the Notre Dame delegation. Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., regional chaplain of the NFCCS, may not be able to attend because of his health.	■
The Local Council has set into motion machinery to gain local prestige and strength by organizing local commissions on a broader- and more active basis. Bob Reinders is pushing the organization of a local commission for study of Rural and Family Life problems. George Igel, Notre Dame’s senior delegate to the regional council, is organizing a local commission for Inter-Racial problems. The most active local commissions are those on Catholic Action, Veterans Affairs and Liturgy.
Father Hesburgh addressed the meeting briefly, telling of his relations with the Federation during its early years, and stressed the importance of marshalling our local forces in preparation for the national council meeting. The machinery for a national commission is already in operation at Notre Dame, he said, within the Veterans Club, which for the past three semesters has been in the campus spotlight and has conducted activities directly in line with the basic functions of the NFCCS. This means particularly the club’s work in the field of panel discussion of current controversial topics and the presentation of speakers such as the Merril C. Meigs lecture held this week. Also fitting nicely into the NFCCS pattern are the Vets Club’s Communion Breakfasts, Week-end Retreats, and smokers.
Notre Dame’s delegation to the National council meeting will propose Vincent Hogan, an N. D. graduate student in
political science, for election to a national office. Hogan is going to Ireland and England this summer to gather material for a thesis and will travel to the European continent to attend the Pax Romana International Catholic Conference at Fribourg, Switzerland, in August. Pax Romana is the international organization of Catholic students, and the NFCCS is the organ which represents the United States in this conference.
Other business handled at the local council’s meeting included the election of Pat O’Meara as local chairman. George Igel was elected vice-chairman and Jerry Feeney, secretary. Representatives from six local special-interest groups comprise the Local Council.
Blue Circle Society Revived by Council
Revival and reorganization of the Blue Circle, traditional honor society and adjunct of the Student Council at Notre Dame, has been approved by the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, it was announced yesterday by Ralph W. Hayman, Jr., president of the Council.
Mr. Hayman also disclosed that the Council, at its weekly meeting on May 21, voted to take immediate action on drafting a new constitution foi' the Blue Circle. This constitution will be submitted to University authorities for approval, following which Blue Circle members will be chosen by the Student Council.
The Blue Circle by tradition is composed of outstanding student leaders. Its primary function is fostering and maintaining the traditional spirit of Notre Dame among the student body. It does this by providing leadership and guidance for all students; by arranging football pep rallies, student celebrations and kindred activities; by helping to orient new students with Notre Dame customs, and by assisting University authorities in various ways.
Notre Dame Colors for Hoosier Plates
The University of Notre. Dame will be honored in a unique way by the State of Indiana next year. H. Dale Brown, Director of the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, announced recently that 1947 auto license plates for Hoosier motorists will bear Notre Dame’s famous colors— blue numerals on a gold background.
South Bend Graduates Hear Father Cavanaugh
Joint ceremonies for South Bend’s four public high schools marked their annual baccalaureate rites at 4 pan. Sunday in the John Adams High School auditorium. The program featured an address given by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
Outlining the fundamental definition of Americanism, which was the theme of his address, Father Cavanaugh stressed the contemporary sense of adequacy and complacence infecting people at large. In its extreme forms it is equivalent to a denial of God. He indicted the San Francisco conference for its failure to open its delibei’ations with an appeal for divine assistance. “For group cowardice and for studied slights of the Ruling Spirit of the Universe, I wonder if anything has ever surpassed the meetings of the United Nations?”
“The campaign to keep God out or to get God out of business, out of education, out of government, out of international relations is not something new. A few years back the Communists of Russia cried, ‘Away with all superstitions! Let Science and the Almighty Mind of Man set up the entire order of Society.’ Then the Fascists and the Nazis tried their hand at stealing creation away from the Creator. As you know, basically there is much in common among the Nazis, Fascists and Communists: They all want to run economics, education and the government without God.”
“The campaign,” the educator continued, “to get God out of things is very active right here in America. Sometimes it is stealthy and indirect.” After pointing out that certain forces are utilizing the radio and the press to convince the American public that the Russian form of government is inevitably the right one for America, Father Cavanaugh defined democracy in the substantial implications of the Declaration of Independence.
In closing Father Cavanaugh made a fervent appeal to the young graduates to defend the basic concept of Americanism against subversive propagandists and to preserve democracy by being faithful to their own individual religious lights. “I hope you already have strong faith in Almighty God, that you see clearly that reverence for Him is necessary for American government and why Godless men are always enemies to this country.”
Attention Seniors
Next Tuesday is the last day that the Senior Ball tickets will be on sale. For those who have only paid a down payment on their tickets, the balance must be paid by June 5. 3 o’clock permission has been granted for the Senior Ball.
7
Fr. Moore to Speak at Graduate Dinner
Graduate students of Notre Dame will gather for dinner and entertainment at the Oliver Hotel on Wednesday evening, May 29. Details of a proposed organization among graduate students will be discussed at the dinner, at which Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Ph.D., Dean of the Graduate School, will be the principal speaker.
According to Charles S. LaCugna, chairman of the affair, it has long been felt that there is a need for greater unity among the hundred-odd members of the graduate school, who are pursuing research in such varied fields as chemistry and history, mathematics and literature. At the present time few students are acquainted with those outside their own particular field or a closely allied one. The May 29 dinner is planned as the first step toward a unification which it is hoped' will result in a greater scholastic contribution by a more articulate group of research students.
Besides the chairman, the committee in charge includes Edward P. Smith and Fernando V. Serpa, arrangements; Vincent P. Hogan, entertainment; and Martin M. McLaughlin, publicity.
Dr. Pound to Speak
Tonight at 8 o’clock, Dr. Roscoe Pound, dean emeritus of the Harvard Law School, shown above, will deliver the third in his series of four lectures in the Law Building auditorium. Dr. Pound’s first two lectures were given May 10th and 11th. His last lecture will be given tomorrow night. The concluding lectures, originally scheduled for May 17th and 18th, were postponed one week.
Vogue for "Pin-up" Girl Deplored by Father O'Donnell in Broadcast
Secular newspapers and magazines were admonished for “competing with each other in publishing pictures as risque as possible” by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, President of the University of Notre Dame, speaking in Chicago last Sunday in a broadcast on the Catholic Hour over the National Broadcasting Company network.
Yesterday’s talk was the fourth in a series of five addresses which Father O’Donnell is presenting on successive Sundays on the Catholic Hour on the general subject “Hail Holy Queen.” The Notre Dame president’s final talk in the series will be presented at 5 p.m. (CDT) next Sunday, May 26.
Deploring the current vogue for the “pin-up” girl, Father O’Donnell said: “The vogue was strong during the war; it shows no sign of abating now. Too many newspapers and magazines are competing with one another in publishing pictures as risque as possible, to the seduction of men both young and old, first in their thoughts and desires, and then in such acts as had better be left untold.
“The importance of the press is one of those things which it is impossible to exaggerate,” emphasized Father O’Donnell. “The press sways public opinion with the same ease that the wind swirls away a dead leaf. The multiplication of newsprint is a veritable multiplication of loaves, but unhappily poisons, as well as loaves are multiplied. Newspapers and magazines carry life or death to the souls of innumerable people; and too many seem no longei- to realize that spiritual death has discovered a way of entering our homes without ceremony. It slips in quietly under the guise of newsprint.
“One can have no respect,” declared Father O’Donnell, “for publications that pander to man’s lower nature; nor can one have much respect for the young women who apparently are so eager to exhibit their physical attractions to be gloated over. They have lost something fine that they can never regain. They are daughters of Eve without being daughters of Mary.
“So in an age that glorifies pictures, let us pull down the ‘pin-up’ and put up the Madonna. The ‘pin-up’ and all that it implies is of the earth, earthly. The Madonna and all that it connotes is of the spirit, spiritual. It is the only portrayal of the dignity and charm of
womanhood under the aegis of Mary, the Mother of God. If woman is uplifted, and also uplifts herself, we will have struck the first blow at a sensate culture that has engulfed the nation and the world.”
In another part of his talk, Father O’Donnell declared: “A characteristic of the modern pagan, is that he—or she— sees the world in terms of pleasure, with an inordinate emphasis on the pleasures of the flesh. The lower nature of man must be gratified, despite the testimony of history that retribution follows. It may not be swift, but it is always sure.
“How many of the pagan practices of our times be counteracted? How may we offset the strong, lustful force that has swept over the world, and over this nation, degrading the nobility of woman— and degrading, let us sadly admit, with her tacit consent? We must turn again to Mary, Mother of God and the Mother of all of us. Let us enshrine the image of her in our homes, as well as in our hearts.
“We need to return to God,” emphasized the Notre Dame president, “through love of the Mother of God, the queen of the heavenly realm, who is also queen of this earthly realm, the United States. When the picture of our queen is in our homes and in our schools, when it is carried among our personal belongings as a treasured possession, we shall be on the road back to God, and the forces of evil will be routed.”
SAC Holds Meeting.
Dinner At Rosie's
The Student Activities Council held a banquet at Rosie’s last Monday night. Father Furstoss, the council moderator, and Father Kehoe said a few words to the members.
A short business meeting followed the dinner. Dick Stack announced that the Progress Club had been signed for the victory dances next fall. The other clubs are already booked solid. Arrangements for the coming field day were discussed after Jim Cauley announced that the date for the event would be June 1.
The meeting was adjourned after Ralph Hayman passed out cigars to all the members. (Ed. note: No, Ralph is not a new daddy. He does this every time his picture appears in the Scholastic.)
—Joe Cheney
8
1.000 Male Voices in Drill Hall Sing
By GERARD HEKKER
Last Saturday night the University Drill Hall was the scene of a gala event which this section of the country has never seen before. There were approximately 4,000 people in attendance, and 1,000 of them were doing the entertaining.
The occasion was the Midwest Conference of the Associated Male Choruses of America’s Victory Sing. This was the postwar Concert of the Association. It was attended by some 30 Male Choruses from Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, with the Studebaker Male Chorus of South Bend as host.
The Combined Choruses were situated on a gigantic stage which filled the east end of the Drill Hall. The plans for this stage were drawn up by Mel Niemier, Studebaker* corporation engineer. The platform was 100 feet wide, 60 feet deep, and 19 tiers high. It was built to support 184 tons of human cargo, and at the time of the concert there were two grand pianos and an organ on the stage.
“Keep America Singing” is the motto of the Association, and that is what they did last Saturday night. The combined choruses of 1,000 voices was any glee club director’s dream. The enormous aggregation constantly kept the vast assemblage under its spell. The audience sat in thrilled attention for 314 hours as the Drill Hall was filled with beautiful music.
One would think that a huge mass of singers would have quite a handicap before them, but they worked at their task with brilliant diligence, and their efforts were breath-taking. As each conductor stepped to the podium, he had 1,000 pair of eyes upon him, and this undivided attention was the key to the success of the whole program. From the singing of “The Star Spangled Banner,” their success was assured. The program was brought to an end with the singing of Sullivan’s “The Lost Chord.” Assisted by two pianos and an organ, the combined choruses presented Sullivan’s music with all the grandeur of its broad theme. The ovation after this number was given to a group of men who have done much to keep America singing.
After the concert was over, the audience joined in some community singing. Formal though the concert was in appearance, the audience joined wholeheartedly in the singing, and performers and audience applauded each other vigorously. You just couldn’t stop the people from singing last Saturday night in the Drill Hall.
Radio Club Adds Half-Hour Drama;
Four Programs Now Broadcast
From the studios of WND, "Irish Lore." with Hap Cordesman and Bob Uhl seated at the mike, Al McNulty announcing, and Maurice Macauley in the engineer's booth, heard over WSBT, Thursday, 4 p.m.
The Notre Dame Radio Club is one of the most active campus clubs this semester. They already have four regularly scheduled programs on the air and with the addition of the forthcoming half hour drama, they will boast a grand-total of five separate programs hitting the ether.
Mr. Hanley of the Art Department, who has had radio and stage experience, is helping the boys a great deal as their faculty producer.
On Monday at 7 p.m., over station WHOT, a dramatic skit produced by George LaBuda is presented. Gerry Hen-que is the permanent announcer for the show while the cast is changed whenever possible to afford each member of the club a chance to obtain practical radio and stage experience. Last Monday, the LaBuda production was: “A Night at an Inn,” an exciting mysteryfantasy which besides the able acting ability of the cast demonstrated the ability of the sound man, Pete Riener, to produce sounds and music for a mysterious background.
“The Musical Sketch Book,” under the direction of the Alberto Garcias-Gene Matthews team, is heard over station WSBT every Thursday at 4 p.m. for your listening pleasure. An all-around musicale, it has in the past featured the
Notre Dame Band, Glee Club, and several Barber Shop Quartettes. On Thursday, May 16, the program starred the Moreau Choir in a musical presentation. In the future, the main feature of the program will be a soloist, picked each weelc'from the student body.
Hap Cordesman, sportscaster, renders a first class resume of collegiate sports news every Tuesday at 4:15 p.m. over station WSBT. Cordesman has attracted wide attention for his professional-like broadcasts. His program also features weekly interviews with various stars of the sports world from the campus. Something new will be added to his program in the way of “Irish Legends”—a narration of various unusual happenings that have occurred on the sports field at Notre Dame.
In the fall, Hap Cordesman plans to interview several All-American football players who will give the “dope” on all the intricate details involved in the making of champion teams. At present, Hap is assisted by Tom Dowd, Bob Uhl and Leo Costello.
Bob Mulcahy and Don Kegnan spread the news of Notre Dame over Northern Indiana on the Saturday “News and Views” program over station WSBT at 2:45 p.m.
(Continued on page 29)
9
NANCY BAQ.TLEY
JOLIET, ILLINOIS escort :
FKANK CACCIAPASUA.JE
ESCORT.* JOHN DEE
MAQILYN 5CHN&IDEQ MANSFIELD, ONIO Eo&oq-t: FQANK COLEMAN
MAftY C MALONE. CLEVELAND, OHIO
ESCORT!
JOHN POWERS
MARY A. CONQADT HAMILTON,OHIO escort :
JAMES H. EVANS
MAQ.T44A O'BIZI ENI LIMA, OHIO escoat :
JOHN »AeCOnMJCK
ESCOQ.T
JAMES A. WEBB
DOTTI STEIGEUWALD
p HIL ADELPHI A,PA.
Johnny Walker Rhythms to Entertain
Knights and Guests at Formal Ball
By JAMES SULLIVAN
To the lilting rhythms of Johnny Walker and his orchestra, the 24th annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal will get under way tonight at nine o’clock. Amid the soft lights and the decorated setting of the Indiana Club, the university knights and their friends and guests will enjoy a never-to-be-forgotten dance. Led by the lovely dates of General Chairman Ralph Hayman and Deputy Grand Knight Frank Grimaldi, nearly 200 couples will be in attendance. With two o’clock permissions and car privileges for the entire week-end, the dance-goers will be able to enjoy a real holiday from their books and othei- mundane affairs. Swirling gowns and pressed tuxedos will feature the evening’s dress as the king of sweet music holds sway.
The girls attending this formal ball have come from all sections of the country, to lend to the gay setting and to add to the pleasure of their proud escorts. An entire court of these visiting beauties will serve in the company of the two Formal Queens featured on the cover of this week’s Scholastic. For three hours of delightful dancing, beauty will reign supreme.
Lovely women and tailored men will be the feature that will serve to complete the unique decorative stage provided for them through the toil of Chairman Mike Hines and his cohorts of the decorations committee. Armored knights and colorful banners will reflect an image of bygone days when chivalrous warriors did battle to gain the favor of their ladies fair. Long days of work have been expended to effect the completed work.
All of those minor details which are required to be taken care of in order to insure a successful formal ball have been worked, out by Vic Gulyassy and his aides of the arrangements committee.
The sale of tickets has proceeded rather evenly since last week when the bids were first offered and Frank Kowalski, ticket chairman, reported that, while a final count is not available, satisfactory attendance is assured. The limit of 200 fixed for those attending the ball will be adhered to in order that the overcrowding and faulty dancing conditions so frequent at other formal dances will not be encountered in this one.
Unique and presentable programs which will double as valuable mementoes of the dance have been obtained by
Chairman Jim Evans and his committee. The assignment of providing for patrons has fallen to Warren Leary and his group while the supervision of guests has been entrusted into the hands of John Regan and his group of knights. Pat Trixler as head of the Music Committee is responsible for the services rendered by Maestro Walker and his band since it was by his know-how and perseverance that this top-flight orchestra was assured.
Coincident with the gala ball, the local ’ council of the Knights of Columbus has announced the formal opening of the redecorated and refurnished lounge located adjacent to the council offices in the basement of Walsh Hall. To enable the out-of-town guests of the knights to view the recreational and reading facilities of this room, it will be open for the convenience and the inspection of those on the campus tomorrow afternoon.
The entire facilities of the hospitable . South Bend Council will be made available to furnish both entertainment and refreshment to the knights and their week-end guests.
Hayman, Cacciapaglia
Fourth Degree Knights
The patriotic fourth degree of the Knights of Columbus, highest award which the order can bestow upon a Catholic layman, was conferred on two members of the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, members of a class of sixteen candidates of the Father Julius Nieuwland General Assembly, at the annual statewide exemplification ceremonies held last Sunday at Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Frank Cacciapaglia, Jr., Scholastic Staff Photographer and Ralph Hayman, Jr., Chancellor of the Notre Dame Council, were recipients of the degree which was preceded by a formal dinner dance at the Fort Wayne Athletic Club on Saturday evening. The weekend program was terminated with a formal banquet Suday night with an address by the Most. Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne Diocese, and an address by Deputy Supreme Knight Timothy Galvin, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees at the University. Mr. Galvin presided over the exemplification ritual.
K. of C. fo Initiate
Chevigny Class of 100
Holding the last regularly scheduled meeting of the month last Tuesday evening in the Walsh Hall council chambers, the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus considered the applications for membership of those forming the coming John E. Chevigny class. In line with the consideration of the applications, Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan announced that the absolute deadline for consideration of applicants for the June 4 initiation will be the 31st of this month. Present plans call for a class of nearly 100 men.
Representing the university knights at the state convention to be held this week-end in Indianapolis will be the grand knight, Joseph McNerthny, and Eli Sheehan. The meeting will. conflict with the annual Formal Ball being given by the Notre Dame council here so a larger representation of men will not be able to join their official representatives.
A final financial report on the Bengal Bouts was made by John Powers, promoter of this year’s bouts, and it was announced that the Casey Picnic will be postponed to June 15 in order to accommodate the senior members who otherwise would not be able to attend.
Announcements concerning the coming publication plans for the Santa Maria, official council magazine, were given and reports by the standing committees and special committees made.
—James Sullivan
Speaking of Politics
By JOSEPH C. RYAN
How about the men who ran for the Presidency but who met defeat? Do you know who they were and when they ran? Some of the men here triumphed in one election and lost in another. To your left is a roster of defeated candidates; to your right are years when they failed to win. Can you pick the year each man made his unsuccessful run? Answers on page 32.
1—James M. Cox_______a—1884
2—Grover Cleveland___b—1888 3—William J. Bryan___c—1892 4—Wendell Willkie d—1896 5—Charles E. Hughes  e—1904 6—Alfred E. Smith____f—1916
7—Benjamin Harrison__ g—1920 8—Herbert Hoover_____h—1924 9—James G. Blaine i—1928
10—John W. Davis______j—1932
11—Alton B. Parker____ k—1936 12—Alfred M. Landon___1—1940
11
Fr. Woodward Receives Commendation Ribbon
Chaplain Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., assistant professor of philosophy on leave of absence from the University, has been awarded the Army Commendation Ribbon for his outstanding work in the Army Chaplain’s Corps.
Chaplain Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C.
Father Woodward, who holds the rank of major, entered the army in 1941. He has been associated with the Eastern Defense Command during the past two years, and expects to be discharged soon.
The citation, signed by Brig. Gen. Kenneth F. Lord, former commanding officer of the Eastern Defense Command and now Undersecretary of War, reads as follows:
“For meritorious service as Assistant Chaplain, Eastern Defense Command, from 14 October, 1944 to 31 December, 1945. Because of his frank, friendly and intelligent approach Chaplain Woodward secured the lasting cooperation of civilian clergy when their services were needed for our personnel. His keen sense of justice, broad understanding and tolerant attitude in providing for their spiritual welfare won for him the esteem and confidence of the troops. This effectively contributed to the maintenance of a high morale within the command.
The undersigned hereby awards in the name of the Secretary of War, the Army Commendation Ribbon to (Major Woodward, pursuant to authority, granted by the War'Department.”
Father Woodward, a native of Toledo, Ohio, received an A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1928. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1932. He has served as Senior Chaplain at Fort Hancock, N. J., and Governor’s Island, New York City.
Looking Ahead to the Student Trip Nov. 9th
By JOE CHENEY
This article may give you an idea of what may be in store for you next fall. In 1940 the student trip was to New York City for the Army-Notre Dame football game. Since the game isn’t until November 9, there have been no definite plans made as yet. But for the new stu- * dents who are wondering what it is all about and the old students who have forgotten, we give you an idea of how the trip was run in 1940.
First of all, transportation that year came in the form of a 15-car Pennsylvania Railroad streamliner, which included two locomotives, ten coaches, one pullman, and two diners. Students making the trip incurred no cuts in their ab-’sences from their University classes because there were no classes taught on Friday and Saturday. The caravan left South Bend at 5:15 Thursday afternoon.
Special busses transported students and their luggage from the campus to the local Pennsylvania station. The special train arrived in New York at 10:30 Friday morning. Special busses met the students at the station and took them to the McAlpin Hotel.
The student-train left Pennsylvania station at 3:35 Sunday afternoon arriving in South Bend at 6:30 the following morning in time for 8:00 classes.
The University officials have announced that the student trip this fall will be to New York. This is definite, but the detailed plans as to the date of departure, the hotel at which the students will stay, and the date of returning to school have not yet been formulated. It will be at least two weeks before even tentative plans have been worked out.
CLUB PRESIDENTS TO MEET
In order that all clubs on campus be officially recognized, the S.A.C. invites all the club presidents to a meeting in the S.A.C. office which is located on the Howard Hall side of Badin Hall at 12:15 Wednesday afternoon.
To Publish Sociology Book by Fr. Murray
The new and enlarged edition of Fr. Raymond W. Murray’s book, “Introductory Sociology,” which first appeared in 1935 is scheduled to come from the press September 1st of this year. Father Murray’s revised text ranks among the most important Catholic interpretations of the problems of sociology. The book is entirely rewritten and reset in type, the text material has been rearranged and several new chapters have been added. One half of the volume is devoted to a consideration of the study of the sociological principles, man’s biological and cultural heritage, and man’s social nature. The remaining chapters consider the-major problems of modern group life; the social processes, the urban and rural community, population problems, social institutions, and social maladjustments.
The first edition has been adopted in nearly 100 colleges in the United States and Canada and has had in addition to ten printings, a Portuguese edition published in Brazil. Father Murray is also author of “Man’s Unknown Ancestors,” and in collaboration with Frank Flynn, “Social Problems.”
In 1937 Father Murray journeyed to Alaska to conduct research, while a member of the University of Alaska Dept, of Anthropology. Father Murray spent the summer of 1937 in the fabled Yukon and the St. Lawrence Islands, digging for traces of early Eskimo culture. Eskimo relics which possibly go back beyond the Christian era were un-earthed. While on St. Lawrence Island, located in the Bering Sea, forty miles from Siberia, Father Murray and others in the group dug into long abandoned subterranean houses built of whale bone. The houses, untouched for centuries yielded valuable evidence sought by anthropologists. Members of the expedition were aided in the excavating by Eskimos from a nearby village who were in reality helping to unearth the mounds of their ancestors. The ancient whalebone dwellings were discovered in a sod-covered mound, the final remains of an Eskimo village. At a depth of a foot and a half the party encountered frozen ground, and it was necessary to use salt water from the Bering Sea to thaw the earth for digging.
The greatest part of Father Murray’s work was done on St. Lawrence Island where the climate is cool but not uncomfortable. The temperatures ranged from 40 to 60 degrees fahrenheit. St. Lawrence Island in the Bering Sea and Indiana have a common summer temperature, it appears.

Holy Cross Opens King's College in Pa.
Fully accredited by the Pennsylvania State Council of Education as a four-year college, King’s College, a new institution operated by the Congregation of Holy Cross, is preparing to open next September at Wilkesbarre, Pa., near Scranton, Pa., and has begun to enroll students.
This announcement was made last week by the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., president of King’s College and formerly registrar at Notre Dame, which is also conducted by the the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Connerton said that application forms are being mailed to nearly 300 applicants for enrollment in the new college. Scores of veterans are seeking admission as students.
Plans are under way for construction of a $1,000,000 college plant, Father Connerton added. College and faculty buildings are being completed as rapidly as possible, he declared, and completion is expected before the opening of the fall term in September. A spacious library has been installed and a large order for books placed.
The faculty of King’s College will include some of the leading educators of the Congregation of Holy Cross, as well as many outstanding lay professors. The College has been empowered to grant degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science. The first faculty will comprise eight priests and two laymen. Facilities are being drawn up for an athletic program and it is expected that a coach will soon be announced.
Father Connerton served as registrar at Notre Dame from 1941 until 1945, when he was appointed president of King’s College and directed to proceed with plans for organizing the new college. A former superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame, he is a recognized authority on Gregorian Chant.
Besides the University of Notre Dame, the Congregation of Holy Cross also administers St. Edward’s University at Austin, Texas, and the University of Portland, at Portland, Oreg., and many high schools throughout the United States. The Holy Cross Mission Band, which is also a part of the Congregation, is active in the home mission field. The Congregation likewise maintains extensive foreign missions in the Province of Bengal, India.
The proposed King’s College is part of a seven-point expansion program initiated by Bishop Willian J. Hafey of the Diocese of Scranton. This program envisages in addition to the erection of King’s College at Kingston, a suburb of Wilkesbarre, a new hospital in Hazelton, a new extension of Mercy Hospital and St. Joseph’s Children’s Hospital in Scranton, and central high schools in Kingston and Nanticoke.
In pointing out the deficiency in college work for men in the Wilkesbarre area, Father Connerton, president of the proposed King’s College, said that the University of Scranton, operated by the Jesuit Fathers makes available the best in college education for students living in the vicinity of Scranton, but for young
men living in other parts of the Diocese there was no Catholic institution equipped to offer training on a college level. Consequently, the opening of King’s College at Wilkesbarre was not only an appropriate but a highly necessitated move.
The course of studies offered will be the Liberal Arts. English and Foreign Languages, Religion, History, Mathematics and Science will comprise the basic subjects of the curriculum. To inquiries whether the school would offer pre-med or pre-engineering courses, it was pointed out that the curriculum had been so geared as to serve as preparatory work any professional man ought to follow prior to his period of specialization.
Physics Seminar Held;
Professor Wicks Speaks
Last Saturday afternoon the Physics Department of the University was host at an inter-university seminar in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The schools represented at the meeting were the Universities of Purdue, Indiana, Iowa, Illinois and Chicago.
The principal speakers were K. Lark-Horovitz of Purdue University who spoke on the subject, “Semiconductors and Their Uses,” and G. C. Wick of the University of Notre Dame whose topic was “Problems of Slowing Down Neutrons.” After the meeting dinner was served for the members of the seminar in the Faculty Rooms of the dining hall.
Tn prospect is the new million dollar King's College project to be erected on a seven acre campus on Wyoming Avenue in ' Kingston, suburb of Wilkesbarre. The faculty residence, the gymnasium, and the classroom building will be of buff brick and lime- rt stone trim in a modified Italian Lombard style of architecture.	-s-- ■	•
HCME ITCH THE WARS
Address by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, at the special Convocation honoring Chester W. Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations, -with an LL.D, degree on Wednesday afternoon. May 15th, 1946.
Special convocations are very rare occurrences at Notre Dame. As a matter of fact, I doubt if more than five have been held on this historic campus since the University was founded. The last, as many of you will recall, took place in October, 1936, when the present Holy Father, now gloriously reigning, visited us as Cardinal Secretary of State. That event will live long in the memories of those who attended. And so will this occasion which brings us together to honor one who is so deserving of honor—one of the heroes of our armed forces of World War II, the admiral of the most powerful fleet ever assembled by any nation.
I know your innate modesty, Admiral, so I shall not embarrass you with a recital of your heroic achievements. After all, your place is fixed in the hearts and minds of your countrymen, and no words of mine can add anything to the acclaim which you deserve, and which you have received from a truly grateful nation. You belong to all America, so I know you will not object when I say that we at Notre Dame feel very close to you because of your interest in this old school ever since you first became head of the then Bureau of Navigation.
Recalls 1942 Broadcast
We thought about you a great deal during the early days of the war. When you first went out to .the Pacific, our hopes and prayers went with you. We knew the tremendous task that awaited you, that you not only had to defeat a powerful enemy, but had to fashion the fleet to do it with. But knowing you— your faith, your courage, your skill, — we had no doubt about the final outcome.
I am reminded, Admiral, that I broadcast a radio message to you back in April, 1942. It was on universal Notre Dame Night, and I spoke in behalf of Notre Dame men everywhere. I don’t know whether or not you heard this message—you were a pretty busy man about that time—but in any event you heard about it, because you wrote to me after the Battle of the Bismarck Sea. I said:
“Admiral Nimitz, wherever you are, Notre Dame greets you. I send this message on behalf of 15,000 Notre Dame men throughout the world. A thousand of them are in the armed forces. This is in keeping with our tradition of patriotism. The fact is that the peaks of Notre Dame’s history are shrouded in the mists of war. In the Civil War and again in 1917 the priests of Holy Cross, the fac
14
ulty and students fought side by side. In World War II Notre Dame will not be found wanting.
“Last fall, Admiral, you gave a Navy Day address in Washington. You had never been on our campus before, but you and Notre Dame were not strangers. We had admired you for a long time, and you knew us and our traditions. As Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, you recommended to the Secretary of the Navy the establishment of the Notre Dame unit of the Naval R.O.T.C. The Navy and Notre Dame are continuing their close co-operation under your successor, Admiral Jacobs.
“Yes, Notre Dame is doing its part. We are in this war just as you are. But Notre Dame is still operating as Notre Dame. We are training men for America, for today and for tomorrow. As long as there is an America, there must be a Notre Dame preserving the character, purposes, and integrity of the true university. Our task is to provide leadership,' not only during the war, but also after it.
Liberal Arts Basic Training
“Do you remember Admiral, a conversation that we had while you were here? You were on your way to a meeting of the Association of American Universities to stress the value of mathematics as a mental discipline in a college curriculum. I expressed the opinion that other things are more essential. You agreed that the liberal arts are the basic training for leadership. It is dangerous to neglect the education of the whole man. Science and engineering are important in time of war, but unless these studies are implemented with religion, philosophy, and the languages, we develop mechanics, not leaders. Automatons, not men. I have said before, and I say now, that the ultimate strength of a nation, like the strength of an individual, lies in the things of the spirit.
Speaking of the things of the spirit, Admiral, reminds me that the attitude of the young men who will soon be in the service would do your heai*t good. They will sacrifice for the cause; they will make the supreme sacrifice if need be. But I must tell you this: They are clear-minded; their eyes are open; they are thinking of the future. They will have something to say about the course that events will take when this crusade for the preservation of God-given rights has ended. As Lincoln would say, they
are resolved that these honored dead will not have died in vain.
“We will keep the faith. We may have practical blackouts, but we must also have a permanent bloc-out to destroy all subversive forces that threaten from within; and throughout it all, religion must be the ceiling. If God is to be on our side, we must deserve to have Him there. But this is nothing new. Our national heritage is Christian. Let us return to it. Even a war may not be too great a price to pay to get back where we belong. Blood, sweat, and tears may be our lot, but if America is still America, she will survive this triduum of sorrow. And if she is buoyed up by faith, hope, and charity, she can emerge from her ordeal stronger than ever.
“Tonight the spirit of Notre Dame and the spirit of the Navy blend in the spirit of America as the strains of Anchors Aiveigh mingle with our Alma Mater Song. One hundred and fifty Notre Dame clubs are listening, as I hope you may be—somewhere in the Pacific. May God keep you and all your men. May Mary, the Star of the Sea, guide your battle forces as your ships roll over the blue Pacific. May she protect you as, mindful of the heroes of Bataan, you seek out the enemy in the best traditions of John Barry and John Paul Jones, of Lawrence and Perry. We will keep you in our prayers.”
12,000 Ensigns Commissioned
That, Admiral, in substance, is what I said to you on that April night more than four years ago. Admiral John Downes, then Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, was present. So were one thousand midshipmen—future officers of the United States Navy—who were using our facilities as they fitted themselves for theii' responsibilities. You may be interested to know that during the last four years more than 12,000 ensigns have been commissioned at Notre Dame. Seven thousand V-12 trainees have studied in our classrooms under members of our faculty; and, as you see, the Naval R.O.T.C. unit, which you helped to establish, is still a part of Notre Dame. And the number of Notre Dame men in service that I told you about increased from 1,000 to 10,000. Hundreds of them are sitting before you now. They have come back to Our Lady’s School to finish the education that the war interrupted. But three hundred and ten will never come back. They have given their
lives for God and Country. On one of youx- future visits to the campus, Admiral, you will see an Adoration Chapel which we shall erect as a lasting memorial to Notre Dame’s valiant sons in World Wax- II, living and dead.
Yes, history has been made since the uncertain days of April, 1942. And you have certainly made history since then. You have come home from the wars— “home is the sailor, home from the sea” —acclaimed a hero, a recognized leadex-among leaders to whom Americans look up. We of Notre Dame watched you with the affectionate pride of a long-standing friendship. We have kept you in our prayers, as we said we would.
In all fairness, Admiral, we should tell you that we are depending on youx-wisdom and vision now, just as much as we did up to V-J Day. You, who did so much to win the war, can do much to win the peace. I know you may say that you are not a statesman. Perhaps not. But you have position and influence, and, what is more, you have the kind of old-fashioned common sense that we like at Notre Dame. This is an old-fashioned school. We believe in principles of right and wrong as they apply to individuals and nations.
Battle Line Being Drawn
And, being old-fashioned, we are troubled about a number- of things. For example, we sense—as I know you do— an increasing disregard for the axiom that the American heritage is essentially a Christian heritage. Here at Notre Dame we still teach the truths that you learned as a boy and young man in Fredericksburg, Texas; that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. In other words, we have an appreciation of the relationship between God and His creatures.
As we look around us in the world we see a pattern forming. We see the battle line being drawn between two forces: the forces of God and those of antiGod. On the one side are those who accept the natural law and recognize natural rights flowing from that law. They acknowledge the dignity of man because of God-given rights. On the other side are the forces of atheism and secularism which believe that man exists for the state, and not the state for man as the protector of his God-given rights. Like a great many other people, we have been wondering how these two forces can be reconciled so that we will have a firm basis for a lasting peace.
Actually we know that they can never be reconciled, that there can be no compromise between them. The two won’t mix, any more than oil and water will. At the same time, we can see no salvation for the world unless we return to
the faith of our founding fathers. It seems to us that we had a livelier sense of that faith when we went to war than we have now. We remember very well how the late President Roosevelt said: “We are fighting for security and progress and for peace, not only for ourselves but for all men, not only for our generation, but for all .generations. We are fighting to cleanse the world of ancient evils, ancient ills . . . we are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the book of Genesis—‘God created men in His own image.’ . . . We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God.”
Maybe we are sentimentalists. But it does seem to us that if this doctrine was worth fighting for, it is worth practicing now. If we practiced what we preached then conquered nations would not be handled according to plans conceived in hate and born in iniquity. Instead, a Christ-like charity would prevail, and the world would be rid of a great deal of bitterness and antagonism that we have been building up. The American spirit of fair play demands this. A nation has a right to existence as much as an individual has. This is not only good logic but good ethics as well.
Too Much Emphasis on Expediency
It occurs to us, Admiral, that our approach to the postwar is wrong. There is too much emphasis on expediency, and not enough on px-inciple. Fox- example, undex- the duress of war secret commitments are sometimes made, but we cannot see how oux- leaders, in conscience can make commitments that are against the common good. And speaking of commitments, it cex-tain-ly seems that in the case of Poland, principle has been sacrificed to expediency. Yet, we know that we were at war before Pearl Harbor, that although no declaration had been made, we were waging a de-facto wax- in behalf of England which, in turn, had gone to the aid of Poland in September, 1939, because of commitments made by treaty. And we remember that Hilaire Belloc, the distinguished English historian, said years ago that World War II will have been won ox- lost in so far as Poland is resurrected. It occurs to me that Poland is the test as to whether we shall have a peace based on principle or expediency.
And you know, Admiral, some of us are perplexed that our country should be a party to a movement to interfere in the internal affairs of another nation. The fact is we are amazed that the United Nations should pennit a quisling to bx-ing charges against a nation that helped the Allies win the battle of North Africa. Now if the Security Council of the United Nations is to investigate
Spain, we feel that in all justice that Poland, the Balkans and other countries under the xnxle of Red Fascism should be investigated as well and a report made to the United Nations. It seems that what is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander. Of course, basically, the whole situation is contrary to our country’s tradition. As far back as 1823 we adopted the Moxxroe Doctrine to prevent any European nation’s meddling in the internal affairs of any country in the Western Hemisphere. Why should we do an about face now?
Of course, it may be that we are too neax- the events of recent years, and have been too much a part of them, to see them in theix- true, perspective. Yet . I think you will agree that our part in the last war will have been the most tragic blunder in our histox-y—that your great work will have been in vain—i£ we retreat from the position that is ours because of what I call “the faith of our founding fathex-s.” The peace for which we have striven at such an appalling cost in men and money and materials must be grounded on that faith. Contempt for the moral law led to World War II. Contempt for it now is a sure invitation to World War III, a prospect too terrible to contemplate.
Christian Leadership Necessary
I know, admiral, that you will not misunderstand the nature and purpose of the observations. I just wanted to have a little friendly visit with you in public as I did back in 1942. I have not taken advantage of this occasion to sermonize—far from it. I meant every word when I said that we depend on you as much now as we did before the Japanese sux-render. And although the foreign relations policy of our country rests with the President and the Senate, we look to you for the leaven of leadership that is so essential to a Christian nation that is devoted to the ways of peace, but also quick to repel foreign aggression and to resist subtle enemies from within its borders whose insidious attacks would first weaken and then destroy the heritage of America.
It is because of our high regard for you that we have asked you to come here. today. Notre Dame rejoices with you in what you have accomplished, knowing that the perspective of history must constantly enhance the magnitude of your achievements. She salutes you as the active head of oux- Navy that gave such an excellent account of its stewardship in World War II. She welcomes you again to the campus in order that she may invest you with the most signal honor within her power to bestow-, the coveted Degree of Doctor of Laws honoris causa. May God be ever with you in your responsible position as Admiral of the-Fleet and Chief of Naval Operations.
15
SKigh ^bowe St. cMary’s Waters
By LEO PAUL BRESSLER
Up the trembling ladder steep and tall to the highest window in the wall
—Longfellow
If you ever feel the urge to climb up to Our Lady’s perch on the Main Building these words from, “Paul Revere’s Ride,” will certainly come to mind. Some of you with a mathematical frame of mind will find that there are 103 steps plus 13 more on a very dilapidated ladder leading to the roof. But a climb to the upper reaches is well worth the energy and the horse linament needed to restore one’s legs to normal.
By the time you have climbed 103 steps you feel you’re scraping the strato-phere, but it’s only there you get to feel the antiquity of Notre Dame. Even the dust is in keeping with the atmosphere forming a thin veil incasing the glory of this once proud floor. If it hadn’t been for the occasional murmurings of the students of the Fine Arts Department which is housed on the fourth floor, I might well have been back in the year 1883 when, on a blowy October morning they hoisted the 16-foot gilded statue of Our Lady to her* pedestal atop the dome. Considering that the statue weighed 4,400 lbs., the operation was rather precarious. The statue, a gift of the girls of St. Mary’s Academy, was the work of Mr. Giovanni Meli of Chicago and stood on top of the front porch of the Administration building from Aug. 14, 1880, until that day in 1883 when it was placed on the dome. The statue formerly had a crown of 12 electric stars. When the modern floodlighting was installed, the crown was dismantled. While this job of hoisting the statue was very spectacular, we like to think that there was one boy who was not outside watching this. One boy who was willing to give up his lunch hour, to watch Luigi Gregori paint the combination of blues and pinks and golds that mingled together form the beautiful murals of the inside of the dome. Perhaps he was the one who long ago carved in large letters beneath the murals of the dome, “Lee Salsbury.”
It seems odd to see the many glass cases that cover the east and west walls empty and filmed with dust when once they were the pride and joy of the University. Already people have forgotten what they contained. Yet it was only four years ago that they were emptied because of a fire bug scare which in reality was quite a bit more than a scare.
The Golden Dome at night
Once these glass cases housed a collection of Indian relics, wampum, beaded jackets, arrowheads and tomahawks. In one corner hung the mouldering Mass vestments of early French missionaries, among them the beautiful brocade chasuble of Father Marquette, S.J., the companion of Sieur de la Salle.
Our search for the name of the artist who painted the murals on the west and east -wings of the fourth floor was in vain. We found that they were a gift ^rom a lecturer who ran out of money 'while lecturing here and just left them. The murals were used for demonstrations of civil, war topics.
For a real story, however, there is nothing like a hidden room and. we found one on the fourth floor. Just in case you go in search of this room when you open the half door that leads to it, don’t walk in or you will find yourself with some
broken bones as it’s a good four-foot drop to the floor. What is hidden in the room? Here one’s imagination could run wild, but we shall stick to facts. There seems to be a conglomeration of everything. I found, after climbing down a water pipe, that its main contents were discarded paintings and statuary. It reminded us of the secret room of Dorian Gray with a little of the South Bend cemetary thrown in for good measure. The most intriguing thing about the whole place was the names on the walls. Carl of 1908, known in those days as, “Dumplings,” would probably give a great deal to know who put his nickname there. If you have a little time to spare you can see dozens of stories unraveling on those chalk-marked walls. .
By this time it is apparent to all that we were not alone in this escapade. We (Continued on page 29)
16'
Thine Eyes Have Seen the Glory...
By JOHNNY WALKER
On Thursday, May 30th, the nation and Notre Dame celebrate Memorial Day, a day set aside to honor- the memories of those who died in protecting our country from its enemies both foreign and domestic. Services on the campus center about the memorial transept porch which leads into the east transept of Sacred Heart Church. This portal, skillfully moulded into the architecture of ancient Sacred Heart was the result of the efforts of Notre Dame Veterans of Foreign Wars and the University. The door, the combined work of architects Kervick and Fagan, was completed in the summer of 1923. Its gothic design is Reminiscent of the graceful portaille de Notre Dame so characteristic of ancient French cathedrals. The transept entrances were usually more beautiful than the main portal as they were dedicated to Our Lady. Inside the small stone vestibule of the memorial portal hangs Father Charles O’Donnell’s steel helmet which serves as a chandelier. Flanking the oaken doors are two plaques carrying the names of Notre Dame men killed in World War I.
concerned with Dan’s graduation from college. Dan came to Father Walsh and told him that he could not answer the question since he had not yet received his promised degree from Notre Dame. Father Walsh, equal to the problem, said to Dan, “By virtue of the power invested in me as Vice-President and in the absence of Father Cavanaugh and the other members of the faculty, I confer on you the degree of bachelor- of laws!” So ended Dan’s commencement exercises and even though he did miss the sombre strains of “Pomp and Circumstance,” Dan was in line for his commission.
1918 and peace, but there was no lasting peace for on a Sunday morning in December 1941 war began at Pearl Harbor. And as the bow of the Battleship Arizona sank into the mud of the shallow harbor, Notre Dame and America were in the midst of the most terrible of all wars, a war in which 2,900 Notre Dame men served their country and 311 died in service. The war ran its weary, bloody years and ended almost as suddenly as it had begun. A mushroom-like cloud rose 20,000 feet over the smouldering shell of Hiroshima, ended the war and ushered a fearful world into the Atomic Age.
The peaks of Notre Dame history have often been reached while the nation was at war-. The centennial was observed in the midst of the most fearful of conflicts. It is not selfish to wish that it were otherwise. As we bow our heads in prayer this memorial day let us remember the students who have so lately walked this campus and who now sleep far from their native America and the campus of Our Lady. Surely if their lips might part once again they would direct us to her for our guidance in these years of uncertainty, “Our life, our sweetness and our hope.”
Fr. O'Donnell Sermon
Outstanding 1945 Talk
A sermon by Kev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, entitled, “The American Postulates,” has been selected as one of the best sermons of 1945, it was announced at Notre Dame today.
The outstanding sermons of the year are collected in a book published by Harper & Bros., and entitled, “Best Sermons: 1946 Edition.” In the book are outstanding sermons of Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish churchmen, which have been chosen by an advisory board composed of representatives from the Catholic, Protestant and Jewish faiths.
In the past the ceremony consisted of a military-field Mass on an altar set up in the doorway. Then in the community cemetery behind Holy Cross Seminary, wreaths of flowers were laid upon the graves of the priests who had served as Chaplains during war time. Taps, a rifle salute and the murmur of prayer, concluded the touching services.
During the first World War Notre Dame gave generously of her student body and faculty. 2,200 students served in World War I while 56 paid the supreme sacrifice. Six of the faculty joined the service as Chaplains. Among them were Father Charles O’Donnell, poet and president; hard, horse riding Father George Finnegan, later Bishop of Helena, Montana; and Matthew J. Walsh, then Vice-President of Notre Dame. An interesting story is told concerning Father Walsh and one Pvt. Dan McGlynn, a Notre Dame student in khaki. Father Walsh knew that a certain officer was looking for college men to train as intelligence officers. Knowing that Pvt. Dan was in the vicinity, he referred him to the officer. The military, true to tradition, promptly handed him a question-aire to fill out. One of the questions was
Veterans at their recent club smoker enjoy the talk by Prof. Edmund A. Smith, inset, assistant Dean of Commerce.	.
17
The Infirmary—Old and New
Ever been sick at Notre Dame? If you have, perhaps you’ve been in the University Infirmary. In that case, no doubt, you know all about the Infirmary. If you’ve never been in it, the chances are that you know nothing at all about it except its location, and maybe you aren’t even sure of that. It is a bit off the beaten track, out there behind St. Ed’s. It’s not frequently visited by those not in need of medical attention, which is, of course, worthy and natural. But, like everything else at Notre Dame, the Infirmary has a history and a tradition of its own. Here’s the tale:
The present modern Collegiate Gothic structure was started in May, 1935, and finished in April of the following year. At that time, the time-honored and very time-worn Old Infirmary was abandoned as a hospital, and appropriately enough turned into a residence hall. It survived a few semesters before it was torn down. Supported in its last days only by the ivy on its venerable sides, it had stood since the days of the Civil War. After three quarters of a century’s use in many capacities, it passed to the Valhalla of the temporal structures of man.
That Old Infirmary would make a long story in its own right. There isn’t room here to go into its long and interesting history in full, but we can’t pass it by without paying our respects to its memory. When at last it came down in April, 1939, there arose a controversy over the date of its erection. Apparently no exact record was available, and since there was nobody who remembered that famous day and year, its date was a moot question. During the dismantling, however, a brick was found which bore the date 1864. That brick now reposes in the office of the Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation.
At first, the Old Infirmary was used as the printing shop of the then newly-founded Ave Maria magazine, which was started in 1866. It was one of the few buildings on the campus to escape the destructive fire of 1879, and sometime thereafter, because of the loss of the former infirmary in the fire, it inevitably became its successor.
After The Ave Maria had moved to another office, a dentist, a barber, and some University offices moved into the first floor of the three story building. The two upper floors were used as the infirmary. It stood on the now vacant plot, of ground west of St. Ed’s Hall, to _ which it was connected by an iron catwalk. Later, the barber and the dentist
18
By JOE WILCOX
departed, but the Maintenance and Treasurer’s offices remained until 1939.
When the New Infirmary became ready for occupancy, there was, even as now, a pressing housing need on the campus. It was therefore decided to turn the old building into a dormitory for students. This was its last capacity. Its last rector and last occupant as Maintenance Director was Father John Red-dington, C.S.C., who still holds the latter office. Father Reddington refused to allow sentiment perpetuate what was considered a hazard, for it was he who supervised its destruction after it had been condemned as unsafe. Before it could be torn down, the workmen had to prop up the building, lest it collapse on them. It had so long been a Siamese twin of St. Ed’s that students feared that the latter might collapse out of sympathy. However, St. Ed’s bore the loss valiantly and still stands.
Upon completion, the present Infirmary was hailed as the latest in institutional hospitals. It was designed by Ma-ginnis and Walsh, architects of Boston. The cost was $250,000. It combined the latest in collegiate architecture with the latest in functional efficiency. Since then, it has adequately taken care of all but the most serious surgical cases.
The Infirmary is a three-story structure containing wards, private rooms, guest rooms and suites, kitchens, a chapel, and many other facilities. It can
The old infirmary on the eve of being tom down
accommodate from 90 to 100 patients. The head physician is Dr. James E. Mc-Meel, who is assisted by Dr. J. Caton, who is newly back from service in the armed forces. The nursing is under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who are assisted by trained civilian nurses.
On the ground floor are the doctors’ offices and examination rooms. There is a special waiting room ■with a studio couch for patients who are too ill to wait in the regular waiting rooms. Ambulatory patients have their own private dining hall; of course, patients who are in bed receive their meals there. Students who expect this practice to continue after their release from the Infirmary inevitably meet with disappointment.	'
The Infirmary Chapel, which serves the religious needs of the Infirmary, can seat over a hundred persons. As in all other halls at Notre Dame, Mass is said daily. Communion is distributed to patients unable to go to the chapel. Once a week, on Saturday, Mass is said for the intentions of the student body.
In the neat-as-a-pin, white kitchen, cooks prepare the food served to the patients. Efforts have been made to induce the cooks to repair to the dining halls, but these efforts have met with firm disapproval on the part of the Infirmary. As it is a hospital, the Infirmary does not make a practice of serving humming birds’ tongues on toast. However, the food is that which the In-
(Continued on page 28)
t Scholastic Sports Section
Baseball Squad Faces 3 Opponents in 4 Days
By DAVE WARNER
Leahy Three-deep in Line Aspirants;
More Returning Lettermen Expected
Old Jupiter Pluvius wet blanketed all hopes for a baseball game with Western Michigan this year' as he generously sprinkled Cartier Field all morning last Saturday. Even the tarpaulin which covered the infield was no protection and as a result Jake Kline and his boys have to settle for a record of eight wins and two losses at the midway mark of the schedule. But in the next four days they will make three attempts to add to the credit side of the ledger. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 the Irish come to grips with the Michigan State Spartans and on Monday hop a bus for a two-game series at Madison, Wis., to find out what kept the Wisconsin Badgers on top of the Big Ten heap until last Saturday when they were toppled by Illinois.
Perhaps last Saturday’s cancelled game might turn out to good advantage at that. For one thing the players needed a rest following their five-game road trip. Notre Dame’s last game was on May 14 against Michigan, which snapped an Irish winning streak at seven games. Since then Kline has utilized the interim for staging intra-squad games in order to sharpen batting eyes and smooth out the fielding flaws, which contributed largely to Michigan’s victory.
Starting pitchers for Kline’s forces will be Walt Mahannah, who already holds victories over Northwestern and Iowa against no defeats. Not leaning toward sensationalism, Mahannah prefers to work easily, mixing up his deliveries and keeping the hits well scattered. Mahannah’s battery mate will be the dependable Capt. Tom Sheehan who is hitting an even .300. Tomorrow’s lineup may find another- change in the infield with Pete Koblosh, the nimble Russian from the banks of the Hudson, standing a very good chance of supplanting Billy Hassett at short. Stan Krivik again gets the nod at first over “Seeds” Petrzelka, a .370 clubber. Ben Kozlik, with .306, remains at the keystone sack and George “Snuffy” Schneider, .324, at third. The Irish clover sentries continue to make things very unhappy for opposing moundsmen with their combined average of .368. “Jumbo” Mayo is the squad’s big gun with .462 with 18 hits out of 39 attempts. Raba has registered .324 and the veteran Frank Gilhooley .318.
Every afternoon about half-past three, when most students are through with classes for the day, back in their rooms hitting the sack or strolling down by the lake, 100 padded football aspirants jog out to Cartier’s green pastures and turn it into a veritable haceldama. Under the sharp eye of Coach Frank Leahy and his retinue of assistants, these spirited lads hurl blocks, thump shoulders, strive for physical perfection, eat dirt, and run themselves in a latherous sweat until the sun begins to fade in the West and the master sends them trotting to the showers. Rain or shine, spring football practice has been going on every day but Sunday for the past few weeks and will shortly wind up for the season.
From this eager crew of returned letter-winners, vets and fresh talent will come the team on whose performance Irish hopes will ride or fall come ’46. With the exception of a few outstanding former N.D. men still in the service who expect to return by fall, next year’s gridders are battling it out right now for the starting positions.
Staiting in the line, we take our first squint at the picketposts, the ends, the frontier forts in the forward wall. Although a few weeks ago saw the end position weak from a shortage of both men and talent, the roster has so swelled as to raise hopes for this spot considerably. Including a few 200-pounders, and some surprisingly fast flankmen, the end list includes the following: Costello, Helmers, Lesko, Lloyd, Martin, Michaels, Paskiet, Plunkett, Sampson, Severyn, Traney, Bob Walsh, White, Ward and Davlin. Out of all this rangy raw material only Bob White is an ND monogram winner, but Dave Lloyd and Bob Walsh saw some service at St. Mary’s Preflight. Dave Lloyd, the squad’s swiftest end and biggest chowhound, hailing from Los Angeles, is only a freshman. ’Tis said that Jungle Jim Martin, hefty
States’s coach, John Kohs, will probably start either Joe Skrocki, beaten 54 by the Irish on 15 hits the last time out, or his other ace, Keith Steffee.
At Madison Monday, “Kewp” Barrett, the Louisville slugger, will try for his fifth win. The following day southpaw Dick Smullen will go for his second.
blond frosh from Cleveland, hunts bears with a switch, while Traney, Sweeney, Michaels, Lesko and Davlin are looking better every day. One of the most promising newcomers, Whitey Johnson, dropped out for an appendectomy but expects to be right in there next fall.
Moving over to the tackle spot, the Irish are loaded with experienced men, but many of the most hopeful performers at this position have a tendency towards avoirdupois. The tackle roster reads like this: Ciechanowicz, Cifelli, Fischer, McBride, Russell, Budynkie-wicz, Czarobski, Fallon, Glaas, McGehee, Stautner, Zmijewski, Ducato, Eileman, Gaul, Kurzynske, and Schuster.
Ziggy Czarobski, lyric tenor of the shower room, is back, cigar and-all, but he’ll have to step to keep ahead of mammoth Moose Fischer, boxing-champ Jack (Continued on page 29)
Bob Livingston jumps through Stanford line in 1942 battle. The Irish won. 27-0. Livingston.
out of competition since 1942, will be in the Irish backfield this fall.
19
N. D. Trackmen Meet Purdue and Indiana
By MEL GODDARD
Wide open three-way fight for the team title, with Notre Dame, Indiana, and Purdue as the leading competitors, is expected in the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Conference track and field championships to be held in the Ross-Ade Stadium at West Lafayette, Indiana, on Saturday afternoon, May 25.
On the basis of past performances, there is little to choose between Hoosier-dom’s ‘‘Big Three,” with the Irish, defending champions; Purdue, last year’s runner-up; and Indiana’s veteran-reinforced squad all nursing definite title hopes. Coach Doc Handy has entered 28 men in an attempt to capture Notre Dame’s 22nd state title.
In general, Indiana and Notre Dame are expected to dominate the flat races, while the main Boilermaker strength is concentrated in the field events and hurdles. The final resting place of the team trophy is apt to be determined by the distribution of place points and the manner in which place winners in the Little State Track meet cut into the scoring column.
The feature race of the afternoon will find Notre Dame’s Bill Leonard vying with Earl Mitchell of Indiana in the mile run. Mitchell anchored the Hoosier’s winning 4-mile relay team which beat the Irish at the Drake Relays recently. Indiana had a five yard lead when Mitchell took the baton, but Leonard cut the margin to a scant two feet by the time they hit the finish line. This time they will start all even, and the winner should gain clear claim to the rating of best collegiate miler of the year.
Defending champions in six events will be included in the star-studded field. Don Weber, of Purdue, who has been out of action since early in the outdoor sea-. son due to a leg injury, is expected to be ready to defend his 440 and 880 titles, while Dick Kilpatrick, Boilermaker midget high jumper who has cleared 6 feet, 6 inches this season, will be favored to retain his championship. Other defending champions include Bill O’Neil, of Notre Dame, in both hurdles, and Roy Murphy, of Purdue, a V-12 transfer" from DePauw, in the javelin throw.
In addition to Leonard and O’Neil, other Notre Dame performers who should pick up points are Jim Murphy, in the two mile; Ray Sabota, in the 440 and 880; Bill Fleming, in the high jump and hurdles; John Smith, in the hurdles; Frazier Thompson, in the dashes, and Jack Hunter, in the broad jump.
With the single exception of the shot putt, where Bill Bangert, Boilermaker 20
Ne+ters Win Third Straight 5-4 Victory;
Michigan Ends Home Season Tomorrow
By BILLY SLAVICK
A 7-6 football game is tough on a coach, but Walter Langford got a triple of narrow escapes the past two weeks, as his Notre Dame netters came through for their third straight 5-4 victory Saturday, beating Michigan State at East Lansing after topping Western Michigan at Kalamazoo Thursday in an identical maimer. Last Saturday the Irish beat Purdue—again, 5-4. Winning 5-4 isn’t so troublesome—if you win your five toward the first, but in all three meets it went right down to the final doubles match, and in two down to the last set.
Coach Langford doesn’t see any relief this week either. Wisconsin met the Irish here yesterday after the Scholastic deadline, and Michigan will be here Saturday to end the 1946 home season. The postponed Northwestern match, originally scheduled here, is tentatively set for Evanston June 8, although plans are still indefinite.
Capt. Bill Tully and George Ratterman started things off right at Kalamazoo Thursday, Bill winning 6-1 and 6-3 over Walter Stuckert, and Ratterman 6-2 and 6-4 over Worth. Brown of Western Michigan edged Ed Caparo, 6-4, 7-5; John Milroy beat N.D.’s Harry Erd, 6-2, 8-6; Moses of the Broncos topped Joe Brown, 6-4, 6-4; and Artie Hoffman ended the singles three apiece, beating Postema, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.
The Tully-Ratterman combine took their third straight match to put Notre Dame in the lead, beating Stuckert and Milroy, 6-3, 7-5. Caparo and Erd ran into trouble after splitting the first two sets, losing 6-3, then winning 6-2, and Brown and Moses of Western Michigan smashed through to take the third, 6-0. That left it in the hands of Hartman and Hoffman, who came through to clinch the match, 7-5, 6-4.
Saturday at Michigan State was a carbon copy in some respects — same score, and it fell to the lot of the No. 3 doubles team to capture the victory again. But the singles provided the only upset of the week as Tully dropped his first match of the season, losing to Roger Cessna of Lansing, a two-letter man, 7-5, 2-6, 6-1.
Ratterman evened it up though, topping Dave Philips, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4. Caparo and Erd fell victims to Bob Malago, for-
star who has ririce bettered 54 feet this year, seems certain to wipe out the mark of 50 feet, 6 inches, set by Don Elser, of Notre Dame, in 1935, the remainder of the state records appear to be safe.
mer Ohio schoolboy champ, and Letter-man Herb Hoover. Caparo lost 6-3, 4-6, and 6-0, while Erd was defeated 7-5, 5-7, 6-4. Brown and Hoffman made it all even once more, beating Martin, 6-4, 6-3; and Yatchman, 6-2, 6-3.
The No. 1 doubles match gave Tully zero for two for the day, as he and Navy partner Ratterman lost to Cessna and Hoover, 1-6, 10-8, 6-4, after leading 4-1 in the second set. Caparo and Erd evened the match at four-all, beating Malaga and Phillips, 4-6, 7-5, 6-3, leaving it up to Brown and Hoffman. The N.D. pair topped Carl Frans and Martin in the first, 6-2, but lost in the second set, 8-6, after leading. They took the final and the deciding game 6-1.
Michigan will be one of the two toughest opponents of the season. Notre Dame ran up against the other one in their opener, as Navy showed unexpected power to hand the Irish their only loss. The Wolverines are led by Jack Hersh, a letterman, and Bill Milulich, a veter-and and numeral winner in ’42. Fred Wellington of the ’43 varsity will be in the three slot Saturday, and Dean McClusky will be four. Michigan has lost only two so far, to Chicago, 5-4, and Illinois, 6-3, while Purdue, Northwestern, and Michigan State are among their victims.
The Irish B team of Dick Fountain, Jim Rodgers, Ralph Baiocchi, Bud Seg-hers, Dick Unverzagt, and Dick Nichols will go to Culver Military Academy the same day of the Wolverine affair here to meet the cadets there in the annual Culver-N.D. Reserves match.
Morrissey Leader in Softball League
Scoring three straight victories, Morrissey Hall took over undisputed possession of first place in the western division of the Interhall Softball League. The Navy team has remained in the unbeaten class by defeating Dillon, Lyons, and Badin Halls. Dillon Hall is in second place with two victories and one defeat, while Alumni Hall has broken even in two games.
Possession of the top rung in the eastern half of the league was to be settled on Wednesday when Walsh Hall and Breen-Phillips, both victorious in their first three starts, were to have met. The game was played after the deadline for this issue. These two teams have appeared to be the class of the eastern division thus far.
FRANK LEARY
THE MAN IEIINE TEE TEAM
By LEO BLABER
To all appearances he was just another freshman as he took his place in the long line to register. A desire that had taken hold of him in early childhood which he had never thought would come about was being fulfilled. None, not even he himself, dreamed of the future that was in store for him and how closely it was to be interwoven with the university. The school was Notre Dame. The man was Frank Leahy.
Leahy being interviewed by Sports announcer Bill Stern.
He was born in O’Neil, Nebraska, Aug. 27, 1908, and was raised in Winner, South Dakota, where his family moved when he was several months old. Being the sixth child in a family of eight, he profited a great deal from association with his two older brothers Gene and Jack. Gene was one of Creighton University’s greatest athletes, and Jack was such a proficient horseman that several stables asked him to ride for them. Encouraged by their father, an excellent boxer and wrestler, the boys became fine amateur boxers.
When he was thirteen years old young Frank had his first opportunity to play with an organized football team. The
Winner High School team was using eighth graders and Frank was among the boys who made the team. The season progressed, and Frank did not get into one game. Just before the final game he worked out a plan by which he might play. Jack Crowley, the referee, was a friend of Frank’s sister Marie and frequently visited the Leahy home. The night before the game when Crowley was visiting Marie, Frank went boldly up to him and asked him if he would throw one of the Winner players out of the game so that he would have the opportunity to play. Crowley did not promise anything, but the following day with Winner behind 108 to 0 and five minutes left to play, Crowley remembered the youngster’s request and threw one of the players out of the game. The Winnercoach looked up and down the bench and decided to give Leahy his chance. On the first play the excited youngster threw a perfect block—at one of his own teammates. Crowley has never let him live that moment down.
Head Football Coach Frank Leahy at his desk in the Athletic Department in Breen-Phillips Hall.
Jim Mello, fullback on Leahy's national championship 1943 team, charges through a wide hole in the Michigan game.	■
21
Though his detut in football was inauspicious it rose steadily from that moment. In his three years at Winner High he won a monogram not only in football but also in track and baseball. He played football under Earl Walsh, former Notre Dame halfback. At the end of his junior year in high school Frank’s family hade farewell to Winner and moved to Omaha, Nebraska. Here Frank attended Central High School where he also won monograms in football, baseball and track; captaining all three teams. At Central High he was switched from halfback to tackle by George Schmidt, a former football star at the University of Nebraska.
When he graduated from Central he was able to get a job at Notre Dame through the intercession of Earl Walsh and the late Tommy Mills, who had coached his brother at Creighton and had been appointed freshman coach at Notre Dame. In Sept, of 1927 we find the eager young Frank Leahy entering Notre Dame.
Bev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., welcoming the new head coach in 1941 as retiring coach Elmer Layden (right), looks on.
Determined to win his monogram, Leahy reported for football practice on the day of his arrival. Coach Mills was delighted to see him, and after talking with him for awhile, told him to get into uniform and report to the practice field.
The season advanced and Frank was playing tackle on the freshman team, but he felt that he was not progressing satisfactorily, until one day, Rockne, after observing freshman practice, suggested to the coach that Leahy be switched to center. Frank had no previous experience at center, but he resolved to make good wherever they placed him. He acquired a football and spent long hours practicing center passing. Frank’s efforts were rewarded for he won the Hering medal for center passing at the end of the season.
Though he was quiet, Frank was popular with his classmates who recognized him as a natural leader. He spent most of his time working, studying, and on the practice field, but his popularity was
Leahy and Ed McKeever, who took over as head football coach in 1944.
proved when he was elected president of the freshman class.
In 1928 Frank worked hard and made the varsity. He was a sub center but didn’t see much- action because the team wasn’t up to the usual Rockne standards, and Rockne was forced to use the regulars for most of the games. Midway in the season, because of an injury to the first string tackle, Rockne switched Leahy from center to tackle, where he remained for the rest of his playing career.
Frank was first string right tackle on the 1929 championship team. The team opened against Illinois and Frank played for 45 minutes. For him this was the reward for all the hard work he had done during the previous two years. He describes it as one of the most exciting experiences of his life. During the Navy game Frank dislocated his right elbow and it seemed that he was through for the season, but those who believed this, reckoned without his determination and courage. He saw action several times in the next three games, but his injured elbow didn’t permit his playing foi' any length of time. When he learned that his brother Jack and several other relatives planned to attend the Southern California game he resolved to start. He went to see Rockne who was sick, and when Rockne asked him about his arm he replied that it was fine and extended his left arm which was his good arm. The daring ruse fooled Rockne, and after denouncing all doctors he assured Frank that he would start. When the game began the starting lineup showed Frank Leahy at right tackle; however, because of his injury he was forced to retire from the game at halftime. The team closed the season by beating Army.
22
Frank played most of the game, never" realizing that he was playing his last game.
Two days before the opening game of the 1930 season Frank twisted a cartilage in his right knee. This accident wrote finis to his college career. Downcast at first, he soon realized that this injury was a blessing in disguise for it gave him the opportunity to observe the coaches and thereby pick up knowledge which was to serve him well in the future. During the Christmas holidays Rockne asked him to accompany him on a trip to the Mayo clinic for treatment. During those sixteen days he gained invaluable knowledge from the immortal Rockne.
He was graduated in 1931 with a B.S. in physical education, and was signed as line coach at Georgetown under his old friend Tom Mills. His coaching tenure at Georgetown was short lived; the next year he signed at Michigan State under Jim Crowley in the same capacity. When Crowley accepted the job of head coach at Fordham, he took his whole staff of assistant coaches with him. At Fordham Leahy developed the famed “Seven Blocks of Granite.”
On July 4, 1935, Frank married Miss Florence Reilly in St. Patrick’s Church, Bronx, N. Y. The Leahys now have four-children, Frank Jr., Susan Marie, Florence an Jerry.
In 1939 Frank moved to Boston College as head coach. Under Frank’s superb tutelage another famous team was produced in New England as Boston College won 20 victories in 22 games, and vanquished Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl game of 1941.
In February of 1941 Elmer Layden resigned as athletic director of Notre Dame, and immediately everyone across the nation began to speculate as to who his successor would be. On Feb. 15, their question was answered; Frank Leahy had come back to Notre Dame.
He immediately called practice and another great Notre Dame team was in the making. His 1941 team had a record of 8 victories and one tie.
Leahy was voted coach of the yeai- by the New York World Telegram. In 1942 with Leahy hospitalized for three weeks the Irish wound up the season with 7 wins, 2 losses, and two ties.
Leahy in Lieutenant's uniform. He served on the staff of the Pacific Submarine Commander.
Leahy with his family in South Bend while on a brief leave in January, 1945. Left to right, Frank, Jr., Mrs. Leahy holding Jerry, T-nwhy holding Flossie, and Sue. Leahy, who always carried the film of the 1943 season with him, showed the highlights to the men while serving on Saipan, Tarawa, Guam, Kwajalein and Majuro.
23
The last game of the 1943 season will never be forgotten by anyone who has followed the football fortunes of the Irish. The Irish had won !) straight and were leading Great Lakes 14-13 with only <50 seconds left in the game, then a long pass gave Great Lakes a touchdown and Notre Dame wound up on the short end of a 19-14 score. Had the Irish won that one, Frank Leahy would have had the distinction of coaching three undefeated teams in four years.
His overall record for five years of coaching is 44 victories, five losses, and three ties.
On May 19, 1944 Leahy entered the Navy. He was first sent to Princeton for an indoctrination course then joined the stall of the Pacific Submarine Commander. In July, 1945 he was sent to St. Mary's pre-flight school and was discharged in November of 1945.
Now he is back at Notre Dame to continue his successful career. We at Notre Dame and also all the followers sincerely wish him the best of luck in his future years at Notre Dame.
The 1941 coaching staff, left to right. Bill Cerney, freshman coach; Ed McKeever, backfield coach; head coach Leahy; Joe McArdle, line coach; and Johnny Druze, end coach.
Wildcats Defeat N. D.
Golfers to End Streak
Northwestern stopped a Notre Dame athletic winning streak for the second time of the J945—16 season as the Wildcat golf team edged out a 14 to 13 victory over the Irish golfers on the Notre Dame course Saturday May IS. It was the first Irish defeat, of the season. Manuel de la Torre paced the Wildcat golfers with a 73 in the best ball matches and a 74 in the singles for a 3G hole total score of 147. Notre Dame won the best ball matches 5 to 4 but Northwestern rallied to take the singles, 10 to 8. de la Torre and Abrams teamed up to defeat Dick Whiting and Joe Totten, 21a points to Is in the best ball matches. Whiting fired a 76 in the singles against de la Torre but the Wildcat ace came in with a 74. George Stuhr and Everhart Schleck blanked Krapfel and Stiverson 3 to 0, in best ball matches while Stuhr went on to whip Abrahams in the singles, 3 to 0. Scores:
Rest ball matches
	Out In	Total N.V. N.O.
de la Toite	3S 35	73
Abi-ahams	39 40	79	2.4^
Dick- Whiting	39 36	75
Joe Totten	39 39	73	4&
Krai'fel	40 39	79 -
Stiverson	39 37	76	0
George Stuhr-	40 35	75
Everhart Sehlenek	37 37	74	3
Stotter	41 39	so
Lindgren	39 40	79	1^.
Tom Kennedy Jim Besenfelder	39 41	3S 39	77 SO	1%
	Singles			
lie in Torre	3	6 :;s	74	9
Dick Whiting	39	37	76	2~ 1
Abrahams	42	37	79	0
George Stuhr	39	36	75	3
Stiverson	40	SS	7S	
Jim Besenfehier	40	SS	7S	1%
Krapfel	39	SS	77	if,
Tom Kennedy	SS	SS	76	2^
Lindgren	3b	3S	76	3
Everhart Schleck	39	40	79	0
Stotter	SS	SS	76	
Joe Totten	41	40	SI	0
Vets' Club Presents
Golf Awards at Dance
Racing those little dew drops over hill and dale, from one hole to another Joe Flood last week won the Vets* Golf Tournament with a low gross score of 74. Hob nobbing with the weather, contestants were not all able to complete the 36 hole course. Scores were recorded, and prizes for the low gross winners as well as those who came out ahead in the blind bogey were awarded at the dance last Friday night. Just to make things right names of the winners were drawn from a hat.
Following Joe Flood’s 74. Lou Krue-per had a firm grasp on the number two spot with a low gross of 77. Hugh Good. Bill Carey, John Quinn, John Myers, and Bill Archibald came out of the hat to complete the winner’s circle. Tom Kennedy, captain of the Notre Dame golf team, awarded the prizes.
More than a fitting climax to the scheduled week long golf tournament was the informal dance held in the Rockne Memorial last Friday night. Sponsored by the Vets’ Club and chair-manned by Bill Shine, the atmosphere of informality which prevailed received a thunderous verbal applause from the assembled crowd. More than successful in attendance, jitterbugs and shufflers alike left at the Cinderella hour well pleased with the rhythms of Charlie Rogers orchestra.
Though it takes its place in Notre Dame annals as one of the most popular dances sponsored here, it is no discredit to Joe O’Toole or Ralph Hayman; rather the scaffolding of student opinion favoring more such informal affairs.
B-P Defeats Sorin
In a game featured by a tight mound duel, Breen-Phillips defeated Sorin Hall, 3 to 2. in the feature game of the past week in the Interhall Baseball League. The victory was the second in a row for the B-P boys and moved them to within a game of Zahm Hall which has captured three straight games.
Cavanaugh Hall was trounced in both of its appearances last week after it had defeated St. Ed’s in its first tilt. Scores of the week: B-P 3, Sorin 2; Zahm 7. Walsh 3: Alumni 14, Cavanaugh 1: Zahm 10. Cavanaugh 1.
1MI4IKIX
By JIM CLEMENS
One of the mainstays on the fine Notre Dame golf team which at this writing has lost but one dual match in six starts against some of the strongest competition in the Mid-West, is the captain and numbei- three linksman, Thomas Joseph Kennedy, first semester senior from Rochester, Minnesota.
Although Tom acknowledges Rochester as his home town, he was born in St. Paul, Minnesota, November 22, 1923, and moved to the town which is the site of the famed Mayo Clinic three years later when his father, who works for the Maintenance Division of the Minnesota State Highway Department, was transferred there.
Tom attended Rochester High School from 1937 to 1941, and during his four years association with the school won four monograms in basketball and three in golf. He captained the hardwood team in his senior year and led them to the Big Nine Conference (one of the toughest high school conferences in Minnesota) Championship, while he himself annexed second place honors in the individual scoring derby.
As a junior he helped the golf team capture the Conference Championship as he played the greatest game of his high school career in winning the individual championship in the Conference Tournament.
After he graduated from high school, Tom worked at the Mayo Clinic for two years before he decided on a college education, coming to the campus of Our Lady in November of 1943.
As a freshman he was a member of the basketball squad, but when he was rejected by the Army because of an old injury, he was advised against any further participation in the hardwood sport which thus enabled him to concentrate all his efforts on the less strenuous game of golf.
The following spring the young Irishman reported to the Rev. George Hold-erith, C.S.C., competent director of the Notre Dame linksmen, and so impressed the coach with his skill with the niblicks and mashies, that he established himself as the number four man before the first shot bounced down the fairway to open the ’44 season.
Tom advanced to the number one and
two slots last year, and as a reward for his stellar play during a rather drab Irish season, was elected to the captaincy of this year’s link squad, which he modestly admits was the biggest thrill of his athletic career.
Though he was relegated to the number three spot this season, behind the returning war veteran Dick Whiting and the freshman sensation George Stuhr, Tom is still a capable and dependable performer who has the knack of always shooting a good game regardless of the strangeness of the course, and the stiffness of the competition. On the home course he consistently shoots in the low seventies, which is better than average golf for the 71 par course.
His greatest achievement on the Notre Dame links thus far is the 67 he shot in a practice round, though he takes justifiable pride in the fact that he has won more than three-quarters of his singles matches in college competition.
The genial Irishman with the ready wit and winning personality expects to graduate in January, 1947, with a B. S.-Degree in Business Administration, but from there his plans are uncertain. However, July 3rd of this year is marked in large red letters on his calendar for that is the day he is to walk down the aisle with pretty Ruby Nordess, a petite blueeyed blonde who could double for Lucille Ball. Tom met his “intended” while
4 Notre Dome Men
Hold State Records
Hoosier collegiate track and field performers have set such a fast pace in past years that most of the records are expected to be in a relatively safe position in the annual Indiana Intercollegiate Conference championships to be held in the Ross-Ade Stadium at Purdue on Saturday afternoon.
Most of the Indiana records are among the country’s best marks, and big Bill Bangert, the Boilermaker’s singing weight star, is the only athlete who is expected to seriously threaten any of the existing standards. Providing he is anywhere near his normal form, Bangert, who has tossed the shot over 54 feet twice this season, will be due to erase the 50' 6" mark established by Don Elser, of Notre Dame, back in 1935.
Existing Indiana state records, by events, are as follows:
Pole Vault—13' 6", Gibbs, N. D., 1938.
Shot Put—50' 6", Elser, N. D., 1935.
High Jump—6' 7%", Nelson, Butler, 1932.
120 Yard High Hurdles—14.2, Gutting, Purdue, 1939.
100 Yard Dash—09.6, Collier, Indiana, 1937.
One Mile Run—4:11, Smith, Indiana, 1937.
440 Yard Dash—48:0, Fuqua, Indiana, 1934, and Cochran, Indiana, 1941.
Discus Throw—164' 5", Harris, Indiana, 1939.
Broad Jump—24' 4", Meagher, Notre Dame, 1935.
Javelin Throw—206' 6", Purvis, Purdue, 1935.
220 Yard Dash—21.0. Collier, Indiana, 1937.
220 Yard Low Hurdles—23:1, Cochran, Indiana, 1939.
880 Yard Run—1:52.7, Francis, Notre Dame, 1938.
Two Mile Run—9:13.1, Mitchell, Indiana, 1942.
One Mile Relay — 3:16.9, Indiana (Harpold, Bicking, Hornbostel, Fuqua), 1934.
working at Mayo’s and they became engaged last Christmas.
The Irish linksmen are apparently headed for one of their most successful seasons in years, due in no small part to the intelligent and inspired leadership of their captain—Tom Kennedy.
25
MAURICE J. 'CUPPER' SMITH, '21
Head Football Coach, University of San Francisco
(Editor’s Note: This is the eighth in a senes of articles on former Notre Dame students who have distinguished themselves in the collegiate coaching profession.)
Maurice J. “Clipper” Smith announced his return to San Francisco, the city of his first choice, when he accepted a five year contract as Head Football Coach at the University of San Francisco.
“Clipper” succeeds Al Tassi who coached the last team fielded by the University, in 1943. Tassi, on a leave of absence, tended his resignation several months ago upon acceptance of a business opportunity in Los Angeles. In this instance, it is a case of the teacher succeeding the pupil, inasmuch as “Clipper” was the coach that developed Tassi into an All-Coast center during his football career at Santa Clara.
Since July 11, 1943, Smith has been in the service of his country. When 25 of his Villanova gridders enlisted in the Marine Corps, “Clipper” decided that his football battles could wait and promptly joined with his boys. After two years service as a Captain in the Corps’ physical education program, with duty at both Cherry Point (N.C.) and Camp Pendleton (Calif.), he has returned to civilian life and to a game that has contributed in no small measure to the winning of the war.
The new U.S.F. mentor is a product of Notre Dame, graduating in 1921 with an LL.B. degree. Born and reared in Kankakee (Ill.), he starred as a fullback on his high school football team. But as a 145 pound fullback he had trouble getting a uniform, let alone proving he was a football player, when he enrolled at Notre Dame in 1917. Smartness, agility and dogged determination soon caught the eye of Knute Rockne, and he was changed from a backfield position to guard. His outstanding ability in blocking won a place on the Fighting Irish varsity for three years and the nickname “Clipper.”
Upon leaving Notre Dame, “Clipper” accepted an invitation to come to San Francisco, enter into the practice of maritime law and play football for the Olympic Club. The devious path of fate, however, guided Smith to Portland (Ore.) and a Columbia College coaching position, where he served from 1921 to 1924. During his short reign, he raised Columbia from an “unknown” to the rank and file of the Pacific Northwest’s great football teams.
Smith’s individuality soon distinguished both himself and his teams. Several schools sought his services but he
26
chose Gonzaga University of Spokane. During his tenure with the Bulldogs (1925-28), “Clipper” brought Gonzaga to equal terms with any football team on the Coast. When he defeated the wily “Slip” Madigan and St. Mary’s in 1928 by a 20-7 margin, Santa Clara persuaded Smith to change his address to the Mission school.
From 1929 to 1935, Santa Clara received the benefit of this talented coach and the Broncos quickly developed a large following for their spectacular teams. The “Alphonso” shift, the pogo pass, multiple spinners and spinner quick kicks were some of the daring innovations that were employed by the soundly coached Santa Clara teams.
But during his seven year term as Bronco mentor, luck was never with the “Clipper” in his annual classic with St. Mary’s. A tie, one touchdown or one point turned certain victories into defeat. Despite sensational wins over Stanford, California and Rice, “Clipper” requested his release from Santa Clara to accept the Villanova position.
The change proved a happy one in the development of his football artistry and his unique talents for producing outstanding teams. Then, too, “Clipper’s” native good humor returned and, on the fringe of the Ivy League, his amber dark suitu gave way to lighter tweeds. Even an imported English briar found its way into the appearance of the new Smith of Villanova.
During his first four years with the Blue and White, the Wildcats won 29 games, lost 4 and tied 3. The call to military service reduced the 1941 and 1942 squad to ’teen age teams, however, and definitely affected the overall record. But 41 victories, 17 defeats and 3 tie games in schedules that included such formidable opponents as South Carolina, Texas A & M, Arkansas, Detroit, Duquesne, Temple, Penn State, Boston College, Boston University and Bucknell is an achievement enjoyed by few coaches.
Long known for his individuality, one of “Clipper’s” many idiosyncrasies is his flare for distinctive expression. But such terms as an “enveloping end” or a “quick end” readily give way to Smith’s description of a player, unaccustomed to the rigors of football, as having “too much plush in the parlor.” And so strong is his habit that it is carried into his own family circle. His charming wife Charlotte has long rallied to the name of “Chucker” and his daughters Caroline and Sandra (aged 12 and 5) have known no other . names than “Sonny” and “Sandy.” "
Student Council Field
Day June 1st and 2nd
John Cauley, Paul Abraham, and Jim Sullivan, chairman of the Field Day Program, announced Wednesday afternoon that the Student Council’s annual field day would be held June 1 and June 2.
Before the wax- the S.A.C. sponsored a field day with the cooperation of the athletic department. This year the Old Timers’ football game will be part of the program.' On Saturday afternoon, June 1, students are invited to attend the game which will give them their first glimpse of next fall’s gridiron representatives in action against graduating seniors.
On the following afternoon inter-hall games and individual events have been scheduled. All students are eligible to compete in any event, but varsity men cannot compete in their respective varsity sports.
The following events have been scheduled : Softball play-offs between the halls which win the semi-finals the week before; football throwing contest; running bread jump; 60 yard dash; standing broad jump; baseball throw; baseball fungo; sack race; four man relay, 240 yards; and the barrel boxing event.
Prizes 'will be given to the individual winners and a plaque will be awarded to the hall which has the most points. Those interested in entering any event are asked to give their names to student council representatives. —Joe Cheney
Jake Kline to Direct
Western All-Star Nine
Jake Kline, head baseball coach of the Fighting Irish, will be one of four coaches of the western college all-star baseball squad that will meet a similar all-star team from the east in Fenway Park, Boston on June 14. Ray Fisher, Michigan, Ernie Quigley, Kansas, and . Monk Simons, Tulane, are the coaches . who will work with Kline in preparing * the all-stars.
Everett D. “Eppy” Barnes, president $ of the American Association of College Baseball Coaches, said that a national J all-star game would be played in 1947.	£
The teams for the 1946 event will be made up of 22 men chosen from each area by a selection committee of the	it?
coaches’ association; The players will	-g;
wear the uniforms of their respective schools. All nominations for the western teams are being sent to John Kobs, Michigan State coach, and Eastern nom- i inations go to Jack Coffey of Fordham.
The Eastern coaching staff consists of % Jack Barry of Holy Cross, Andy Coakley, Colgate, Jack Coombs of Duke, and Jules Sikes, Georgia.
SfdbdeU. fyiatn the. PteM. Pok
—	By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
IRISH SPORTS CALENDAR
Today, Friday, May 24—Golf, Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament at Terre Haute.
Saturday, May 25—Baseball, Michigan State
Track, Indiana State meet at Purdue
Tennis, Michigan
Golf, at Minnesota
Monday, May 27—Baseball, at Wisconsin
Tuesday, May 28—Baseball, at Wisconsin
Robert Gaffney, left, receives the annual Bengal Bouts Sportsman trophy from Frank McAdams, '31, honorary referee. Gaffney, a wounded war vet, was defeated in the preliminaries of the 127-pound class.
ALL-STAR BASEBALL
The Boston Red Sox of the American League, in cooperation with the college baseball coaches of the nation, will sponsor a college All-Star baseball game to be played in Fenway Park, Boston, on June 14. This is the first event of this kind and seems to be a great step forward in promoting college baseball, which has sadly declined in the last decade. It is reported that the Pacific Coast is planning a similar game in the way of a North-South coast all-star tussle. The scheduling of these games may well pave the way to an eventual N.C.A.A. annual baseball tournament similar to the basketball meets. Another possibility are invitational tournaments sponsored by various schools. While" college baseball seasons must be started and finished
during the poorest baseball weather of the season, some such innovation as night baseball might also “up” the interest in the game. Such affairs could be played late in May or early June as climaxes to the season. College baseball is the birthplace of many big league stars and certainly the caliber of ball is as good as is played in some of the lower classifications of pro ball, to say the least.
As for Notre Dame, a game like the one with Great Lakes here on Sunday, June 16, could be played under the lights in South Bend, if a park such as Lippincott was available. This would afford the fans in South Bend an excellent chance of seeing the Irish perform. The Great Lakes nine always draws well though the inconvenience of Cartier Field keeps many fans away since college baseball, as previously indicated, does not exactly draw the fans.
It has also been reported that Irish coach Jake Kline will be one of the college all-star coaches in the aforementioned June 14 game in Boston. More about this later.
CLEAN-UP DAY
Not so long ago, Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, devoted one of his columns to the job of cleaning up his desk which is traditionally a mess. Well, a Scholastic sports editor really never rates that much mail but a little does trickle in now and then. Besides, the desk can't get too messy when it is subject to Navy inspections. ... Of all the publicity directors in the midwest, one of the most accommodating is Nick Ker-bawy at Michigan State. Nick spares nothing in getting the news to the proper outlets. He has recently published a very detailed booklet on Michigan State baseball for 1946. He had similar book
lets printed and distributed during the football and basketball seasons. For example, Joe Skrocki, baseball ace for the Spartans, who will meet the Irish on Car-tier Field tomorrow, is the only pre-war letterman on the team. He was a chief in the Navy and specializes in curve ball pitching. Also, Notre Dame and Michigan State have met on the diamond 59 times with the Irish winning 30 and the Spartans 29. The first game was played in 1907 on the Irish campus. . . . Stanford University is holding a Football Clinic for high school and junior college coaches in California June 17, 18, and 19. . . . That’s just an example of the interesting mail that comes this way .. . . . . When Illinois nosed out Michigan’s baseball team, 4-3 recently, it ended a 27-game winning streak for the Wolverines. . .•. The Chicago Alumni Club of the University of Michigan annually makes an award to the Michigan football player who has shown the greatest improvement in spring practice. The winner may be either a freshman or varsity player although since 1925 when the award was first made, only two varsity athletes have been chosen. . . . Georgia Tech has about completed the remodeling of dressing rooms. The east stands have been moved closer so that when the west stands are rebuilt the field will be centered. A new and better drainage system has been installed and Head Coach Alexander anounced that grass will be sown in May so that a velveteen green turf will be ready in September. . . .
CLASSIFIED
PHONE or MAIL to the Publications Office 118 Main Bldg., Extension 255
TTP you're looking for a typist for your thesis work contact Mbs. G. E. McKnight, Morningside Hotel, South Bend, Indiana.
10 CENTS PER PAGE
27
Grimaldi and McGah
Address Round Table
At two meetings held last week the Economic Roundtable heard papers delivered by Frank Grimaldi, senior architecture student from Pittsburg, Kansas, and Bill McGah, senior A. B. student majoring in economics, from Oak Park, Illinois.
Grimaldi presented a paper on the Missouri Valley Authority before a meeting in the club, held in the Law Building. He dwelt at length on the Tennessee Valley Authority as a “regional” function of the government in controlling river valley resources, which has set the pattern for future Valley Authorities throughout the country. The Missouri River, he said, presents problems in much greater proportions and complexity than the Tenessee, but stressed that the basic mechanism which has functioned in the TVA for the past 16 years is the most practical and efficient type of administration which a river valley can establish to control and develop natural resources.
After their weekly dinner in the Ramble Inn last Thursday night, the Roundtable heard McGah give a highly technical paper on “The Effects of Lowering Treasury Certificate Rates” in which he denounced any reduction as impracticable and unfeasible. The role of banks as played in the economics of treasury certificates, both long and short term, was stressed in the paper. Professor William Downey, club moderator, had high praise
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardu*—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenincs by Appointiaent
NAME YOUR SPORT
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
for McGah’s work in presenting the treatise.
The role of the Roundtable in NFCCS fields highlighted the business portion of the meeting agenda. Since Notre Dame was granted the regional chairmanship of the International Relations Clubs in the region of Indiana and southern Michigan, the club has been gearing itself in this respect. A joint meeting with the Inter-American Affairs group on the ND campus is planned for next week, and a dinner for the get-together is being organized. Speakers will address the joint meet on the scope of the work of the NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students) on a local, regional and national scale, in order to acquaint the members with the role they are to play in inter-college club relations.
GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 4) to the Notre Dame Radio Broadcast last week that the Student Activities Council should receive all the honors for the success of the Vets’ Club Dance at the Rock Friday nite . . . when those that had anything at all to do with the preparations know that the real credit goes to the untiring efforts of Bill Shine . . . proving once more that an occasional local dance in the lower price bracket is the real answer to the social activities problem here. . . .
❖
If you’ve noticed Bill Mahoney and Mike O’Brien in the Huddle more than usual lately . . . it’s only because they are making special arrangements to have drafting boards installed near the Malt Counter . . . The most surprised party was . . . Don McGrath who only last week discovered that there was actually a cupboard behind the mirror in his room . . .encouraged by his findings, he is now seen daily in search of a bed that someone said was hidden in the room. . . .
❖
Wedding Bells rang out for Leo Klier this week . . . and soon to follow suit are Jim Mollidor .. . John Dee . .. Tom Ken
nedy . . . Jack Marshal . . . and Oscar Lupi . . . congrats to you all . . . and may your new life bring you many years of happiness . . . and success . . . and while handing out bouquets we’ll ask Brother Pat to take a bow for the fine job he did of remodeling the pool hall equipment . . . which had been an eyesore to the regular patrons of the Rec Room . . . and surely an orchid or two should go to Hector Davila for expressing so well the attitude that will cement relations between us and oui* South American neighbors . . . well said Hector. . .
❖
There are still a few tickets left for the Mikado . . . hop over to the athletic department office and get a few and take in a fine show . . . see you there. . . .
INFIRMARY
(Continued from page 18) firmary has found, through experience, to be what students like best.
When a bishop visits the campus, he resides in the Bishop’s suite in the priests’ section on the second floor. This well appointed room is also occupied by other visiting dignitaries, such as Dean Pound of Harvard, who will make it his home during his visit here in May.
The Infirmary has a standing rule of “No student visitors.” This came as an aftermath of too much gaiety on the part of the visitors, and, although reluctant to invoke it, the Infirmary has made it permanent.
Thus, complete with the most modern medical services, the University Infirmary is ready to serve the students in every emergency. It is an integral and important part of Notre Dame life.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 27)
Drainage of the field is a good idea because many an Irish eleven has slipped and slid on Grant Field for 60 minutes at a time. . . . Ralph Fieler, 200-pound freshman football candidate at Indiana, has both a sense of humor and a pair of strong arms. On their way from the stadium dressing room to the practice field, Indiana’s linemen were told by end coach Johnny Kovatch to take out a blocking dummy with them. Fieler grabbed Kovatch and flung the Indiana assistant over his shoulder. “What are you doing?” yelped the startled Kovatch. “Well, you told us to carry out a dummy, didn’t you?” said Fieler. And one more sour note from Bloomington to finish the spring clean-up. ... A new sign on the Indiana gymnasium bulletin board reads: “Wanted—a discus thrower. No experience necessary. Just a willing heart.” It is signed by Gordon R. Fisher, head track coach.
28
LEAHY THREE DEEP
(Continued from page 19)
Fallon, and Ted “The Mad Bull” Budyn-kiewicz. Back too is Bob McBride, sudden death on downfield blocking, but gargantuan Gus Cifelli is pushing him and so is Bill Russell, no relation to Jane but built just as solidly.
When scrimmage begins, and the Old Man calls out to assistant Joe “The Spirit” McArdle, “A couple of gads, Joe,” the two usually sent up are George Tobin and John Mastrangelo, but it might just as well be Freddie Rovai and Vince Scott, or Luke Higgins and Tom Potter, or maybe Couch, Conners, Griffith, Cook, DiBari, or Fay. One only has to see the battle-scars carried by these battlers to realize that they play their game right in the vortex of the fray. Besides being the fastest guard, Tom Potter rates right alongside Czarobski as a waterfall warbler, while Red Couch weakens the opposition with tall tales of his adventures in Hollywood and his hobnobbing with such dishes as Ruth Hussey, Annabelle and Ann Rutherford. Add Bill Gillespie, Joe McLaughlin, Tom Murphy, Dick Scheidt and Chuck Yakamonis and you have the guards.
At center the talent for the most part is untried. Bill Walsh is back from last year’s outfit, but hot on his heels is Bill Vangen, a cool operator from cool Duluth, while small but scrappy George Strohmeyer, from southern Texas, brings his savvy here by way of the Iowa Seahawks. Bob Numbers, Lou Santiano and Mac McNichols round out the roster with Harp Dougherty.
Next week the backs.
HIGH ABOVE ST. MARY'S WATERS
(Continued from page 16)
haven’t mentioned him up to now as he wasn’t of any particular assistance except to keep telling us that we would be expelled if apprehended. We are indebted to him for climbing the ladder first, and without his assistance it is doubted whether we would have attempted it. The most that can be said for the roof, other than the protection it lends the building, is that a splendid view of the campus can be had from there. The roof also offers an excellent post from which to inspect the golden dome, the result of Father Sorin’s wishes. He announced his intentions of gilding the dome in March 1884 and then waited two and one-half years before funds were available to carry out his plan. When you consider that it costs approximately $10,000 to gild the dome and then consider old Notre Dame’s then very modest purse, it
was all the more a remarkable accomplishment. The dome is generally regilded every ten years. In October 1942 the dome was cleaned, but since that time the war has prohibited the costly job of regilding.
Our last investigation on the fourth floor was to find the door that leads to the entrance to the uppermost balcony of the dome. We found that only one of the doors is real and the other three are illusions.
A little investigation on free afternoons can give you a lot of information about Notre Dame and its past. What is in the tower of the Law Building? What happened to the relics that were on the fourth floor of the Main Building? What happened to Empress Eugenie’s crown? The answers to these questions can be had with a little exploration of the lore of Notre Dame.
RADIO CLUB
(Continued from page 9)
A half hour feature, “The Life of P. T. Barnum,” produced by Bob Hartman, was auditioned Thursday, May 16th, at station WHOT and is expected to be put on the airwaves next week. The saga of America’s greatest showman promises to be an exciting and vivid drama. Plans
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY... FAMOUS ADDRESS
Forum Speaker Favors
Miners' Fund Demands
The Commerce Forum held its fifth meeting of the semester Wednesday evening with Frank O’Brien as the principal speaker. Frank, a junior in the College of Commerce defended John L. Lewis’ demand that a health and welfare fund be created for the workers in the coal industry. Frank stated that contrary to common belief, the idea of a health and welfare fund to be raised by a tax on management is not a new one but a workable plan that has been in effect in the International Ladies Garment Worker’s Union for some time.
An active discussion on the part of the other members of the forum followed O’Brien’s speech. Professor Edmund A. Smith acted as moderator of the meeting.
are being formed for the next production, “The Midnight Ride of Eustace Pennyfeather,” a satire on “The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere.”
The Radio Club held a meeting in the Music Studios of Washington Hall, May 22nd, at 7:30. Mr. Cork and Mr. McCarthy of station WHOT’s staff delivered talks on “Radio.”
29
Man About Town Kittn&q and
ABOUT THE CAMPUS:
Some time when you kiddies wish to make a first hand study of human nature just drop in at the Rockne Memorial after a dance such as the one that the Vets Club had last week.- Listen to some of the conversation as the tired jitterbugs leave. They dissect one another and take the bones home to gnaw on. . . . It is about time the football players stopped short-cutting across the grass as they homeward plod from scrimmage . . . The campus should be kept clean. Why not some attractive trash cans at key points . . . Seems as if Pete of Walsh Hall (Vet Club mascot) is becoming quite the social hot dog . . . Jerry Wayno complaining that from his hall to the bus stop there isn’t a single tree ... How are
Headquarters — for BOOKS and RELIGIOUS GOODS
A very comprehensive selection of the best in Catholic Literature — a complete stock of Missals, Pamphlets, Breviaries, Rosaries, Bibles and religious articles.
O AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP inc
110 E. LaSalle — just four doors down the hill from Elbel’s Music Store
the campus widows, Stan Stone? . . . Leo Murphy now hits the sack early. At the suggestion, a strong one at that, of his rector . . . Picnics are a mighty sore subject with Pat Doyle . . . Missed Bernie Crimmins at the Junior Rah-rah. Not keeping your distance from PD are you Bernie? . . . Modern woman can surely be overly pious. Ask Jack McGrath . . . Just how did Luppi ever rate a ring-side seat for the Bengals? . . . How are your caffein nerves Jim McCarthy? Remember last Wednesday night? . . . Howard Hall’s Joe Murray now playing golf instead of dating. Guess Shir-Lee said NO . . . About time the ticket office gave some encouraging and intelligent answers to student queries . . . Understand Army wants 15,000 of the 39,000 tickets N. D. will have . . . And what about friends of students . . . Where will they sit at this game? . . . George S. and Julie hitting it off . . . Jack Miles and his Maggy calling it quits . . . His latest is Mary and Pat . . . Rolando Duarte is taking over Maggy . . . Wally Hoffman Co-Hopping with Marilyn K. . . . Recent Cincy appendectomy, Rod Johnson, receiving flowers from his Mai-tha . . . About time Jack Love got dressed up . . . Especially on Sunday.
❖
ABOUT THE TOWN:
Vince Scott’s headquarters now at Walgreens ... If we could go to the restricted Lido Club we would be paying only for music. The food is NG . . . Eat at the Town Club . . . Steaks large and luscious . . . Fearless Fosdick won the
“Noble Piece Prize” for the second time at the DAV . . . About time these famous bands had their personal appearances on a week-end at the Palace . . . Which N. D. student bought several corsages and then re-sold them to High School Junior Prommers . . . Jack Young waving hello like a politician at the Hoffman the other night ... J. Evans anticipating that date with a John Adams senior . . . Her initials are Rosemarie Schiebel-hut . . . Several of our professors seen steak-venturing and salad-ploring at the Town Club . . . John Adam Grads in caps and gowns all over town last Sunday . . . Mary Lou Malone, oft seen with Don Degnan, dining at Marx’s with only girls . . . Sub-sub deb (SMC) Teddy Pinauld peeved at Mark’s because the hostess didn’t seat her immediately. . . .
4*
FLOWER SHOPPE:
Roses to the many students who visit the Grotto now by habit, and not just because they feel they must . . . Violets to Frank Grimaldi who is now a part of the Who’s Who of Colleges and Universities . . . Gardenias to the Bill Archibalds and the Jim Bessenfelds for entertaining a lonely NDite at the Mishawaka miniature golf course. They also dined this young man . . . Roses to the Vets Committee who arranged for the time allowance on the paying of the fifty dollars. The Vets sure need some one to go to bat for them around here . . . Guano to that prominent man on the campus who said, “You Vets can pack anytime you want.”
FASHION PLATE:
St. Mary’s Assistant Dean of Women at the Vet’s Ball, setting example of how our angelic neighbors should dress . . . Jack Tenge of Alumni seems to be setting the styles now-a-days . . . Best dressed faculty member this week is Dean McCarthy of Commerce . . . Bill McDonald, greying slightly but always dressed meticulously. . . . Bill Leonard of Howard appears to be the best dressed “Campused” man.
❖
THIS WEEK'S STORY:
What young gentleman, with a one and a half foot putt to go on the 16th hole, was interrupted by Admiral Nim-itz yelling “Fore.” The young gentleman promptly missed the putt and then turned and started to say, “Why you *****,’’ and then caught himself when he saw who it was in the car. To top it off, Father O’Donnell stood up and shook his little finger and said, “Uh, Uh, Watch that, young man.”
30
TO OUR BAND
REPORT FROM THE FRONT
It was one of those periods that will always be talked about as long as an NROTC unit remain at N.D. Life at Lichfield guardhouse may have been tough; living in Alcatraz is said to be horrible; Devil’s Island has a reputation for stark, cold ruthlessness, but last week-end the student officers of N. D. struck. Simultaneously on three fronts they opened their spring offensive. The unsuspecting trainees, lulled into a false sense of security by talk of discharges and coming commissions for the chosen few, were totally unprepared and could put up but a token resistance against the well-planned attack.
“Ripper” Tooling had organized his forces well and shortly after noon the word was passed and the ranks moved forward. Out from behind a coke bottle leaped a student ensign to strike terror into the hearts of RO’s mustering for extra duty and to send V-5’s screaming to their rooms. A “slightly illegal” business deal was nipped in the bud and four men fell to the deck mortally wounded —their names on the report.
The trainees should have realized that something was amiss and that the day of judgment was at hand when they were refused admittance to the noon chow unless accompanied by the formation. But as it was, there were many who scarcely had time to burn state papers and copies of exams before the offensive struck them.
Saturday evening the pressure was relieved by the RO’s making a strategic retreat to the nearby city of South Bend, where they managed to obtain safety in the dim dark interiors of certain establishments. That night, they sneaked back to theii* homes, believing that the worst was over. Ah, fools that they were, they had not remembered that with the coming of daylight they would be helpless targets for the precision bombing of the enemy airforce as they lay in their sacks. It was a massacre! Nothing since the death of General Custer in his vain attempt to extend his chain of hot dog stands into Chief Sitting Bull’s sales territory (sometimes referred to as Custer’s Last Stand) has been so truly a onesided engagement. At 10:10 a.m. Sunday the attack resumed and scores of RO’s
Ne&t
opened their eyes to gaze, upon a pencil writing their names on “Ye Oide Reporte Slippe.” The men had been tried and found guilty of having their bunks unmade after 10:00 — an unpardonable crime. Appeal to the Judge Advocate was thought of, but was overruled in favor of sending a delegation to UNO.
When the members of the security council heard this they promptly wired the delegation to reconsider. They felt that they were involved in too many border incidents already, and besides, they were short-handed, having had to detail a member to keep his eye on the Russian delegate who has a habit of getting lost.
Sunday afternoon was spent in mopping-up operations by both sides. The next three Saturday afternoons will be spent in swabbing-up operations by one side. Guess which? Morrissey has now had all its bulkheads washed and with the influx of war prisoner labor, will be prepared to send out working details to six other halls. Anyone interested, contact Morrissey. Estimates furnished free.
❖
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“But how was I to know it was the Admiral. Besides, these busses are hard to handle.”
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:90 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Music out of this world
Is played by our band, so they tell.
To keep them happy we must,
So you will please, we trust, Agree that it sounds like-----.
JOKE (Ed. note: How can you say that?)
Lund: “You know Buzz, you should pull down the shades when you are kissing your girl.”
Buzz Ballard: “Why, you never saw me kissing her!”
Lover Lund: “Oh yes I did. Last night I walked by her house and saw a fellow kissing her.”
Buzz Ballard: “Ha, Ha, the joke is on you. I wasn’t with my girl last night.”
For that "particular" card on that "particular" occasion —
I. W. LOWER CO.
Decorators
128 North Michigan St.
31
Heart's Meigs Talks at Washington Hall
Merrill C. Meigs, vice-president of the Hearst Corporation, took his listeners on a very engaging trip around the world in a 32-minute speech made at Washington Hall, May 20. He was introduced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who invited Mr. Meigs to speak at Notre Dame while they were together in Florida. The lecture was sponsored by the Notre Dame Veterans Club.
Stating that he “was very glad to do anything for Notre Dame, and my friend of ten years, Father O’Donnell,” Mr. Meigs remarked that “this isn’t a lecture, but merely an informal report to the Notre Dame veterans of what I have seen and heard on a world-wide tour as a representative of Secretary of War Patterson. My trip was made in connection with our War Surpluses.”
After leaving Washington in a B-17 with a crew of five, Mr. Meigs flew to Bermuda, the Azores, Paris Frankfurt, Berlin, Rome, and into Iran. Mr. Meigs remarked that “in Paris we found a great deal of War Surplus right near the center of the city. There was seven billion dollars of the taxpayers’ money going to waste. The total war surplus waste amounts to approximately 27 billion dollars.”
For Notre Dame Men
THE NOTRE DAME SCAPULAR MEDAL
$1.95
with chain
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Badin Hal!
ANSWERS TO QUIZ ON PAGE 11
1—James M. Cox-------- g—1920 2—Grover Cleveland---- b—1888 3—William J. Bryan----d—1896 4—Wendell Wilkie 1—1940
5—Charles E. Hughes---f—1916
6—Alfred E. Smith_____i—1928
7—Benjamin Harrison---c—1892 8—Herbert Hoover------j—1932
9—James G. Blaine------a—1884 10—John W. Davis h—1924 11—Alton B. Parker_____e—1904 12—Alfred M. Landon____ k—1936
“The destruction such as we saw at Frankfurt is the same all over the world. The amount of damage caused by incendiary bombs at Frankfurt was only 15 per cent as compared to 85 per cent total damage done by one wallop of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima.”
“Who wants a tank, or a jeep, or a gun, especially when nobody in Europe has money,” Mr. Meigs questioned. “The story of giving the British bombs and other weapons of war does not sound sensible at first, but our experts figured that it was much cheaper to give the material to the British than to ship it home, or as we did at first, defuse the bombs and dump them into the sea. Ordinarily, we average 30 cents on the dollar when we do sell the surplus. And as some of you know, the wear and tear has made some of the surplus worth only 10 cents on the dollar.”
Later, Mr. Meigs told his audience of his trip to Calcutta, of flying over- the Hump into China, and of his discussion of the current Japanese problem stemming out of General MacArthur’s presence in Tokyo. At the conclusion of his talk Mr. Meigs was made an honorary member of the Veterans Club by the president, Jimmy Webb.
500.000 Pennies
For Servicemen
Kent, Ohio—(ACP)—Kent State University students have contributed more than 500,000 pennies since 1940 to send campus publications to KSU men and women in service.
When Dean of Men, Raymond E. Manchester first started the Penny Drive in 1940, only twenty names were on his mailing list. At the peak, more than 3,300 men and women all over the world were receiving campus publications as a result of the special fund.
The Penny Drive will continue as long as any university men or women remain in service, Dean Manchester said.
Veterans' Club to Show
World War II Movies
Recently - released War Department motion pictures of American troops in combat in all theatres during World War II will feature a special meeting for all Army veterans on the campus to be held at 8 p.m. next Wednesday, May 29, at Washington Hall, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Veterans Club.
Colonel Floyd L. Lindley, A.C., president of the Reserve Officers Association of the State of Indiana, and Lieut. Col. Loren L. Gmeiner, Inf., Commanding Officer, Military District of South Bend, have been invited by the Veterans Club to be guest speakers at the meeting.
Col. Lindley will speak on the program of the Reserve Officers Association in furthering national defense and the interests of reserve officers. Latest information on promotions, terminal leave, eligibility of. former enlisted men for commissions, and other subjects of paramount interest to veterans will be the subject of Col. Gmeiner’s talk.
The motion pictures to be shown were taken by Signal Corps photographers and have been hailed as “among the most realistic.to come out of the war.”
James A. Webb, president of the Veterans Club, has extended an invitation to all Army veterans now on the cam-put to attend the meeting. Navy and Marine Corps veterans also will be welcome, he declared. The purpose of the meeting is strictly informational, he added, and reenlistment will not be discussed.	,
Pittsburg, Kan.— (ACP)—Seventy-five veterans are now enrolled in auto and aviation mechanics at Pittsburg State Teachers College. This is one of the few colleges in the Middle West that offer auto and aviation mechanics to Veterans under the G. I. Bill of Rights.
Cement Mixer Route 66 Painted Rhythm Welcome to My Dreams Come Rain or Shine
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
32
Universities Able to Admit Only Half of Expected 2-Million Applicants in Fall
Reprinted from "Chicago Tribune" May 20, 1946
planes to his credit, entered the Army in 1940 from Notre Dame, where he was taking a pre-medical course. Since September, 1945, he has been chief of the Fighter Test Section, Flight Test Division, Wright Field, Ohio.
In Washington Reconversion Director Snyder reported that 2,080,000 persons, including 970,000 veterans, will want to go to college next fall but that only one million, including 690,000 veterans, can be accommodated.
The report noted shortages not only of housing but also of facilities, books, and teachers.
It urged President Truman to appoint a national commission on higher education to work during the summer on these and other problems and to report in time for their consideration by the administration and the next congress.
Higher Salaries Urged
Meanwhile, it proposed a number of steps to be taken by the institutions themselves, including:
Raising teachers’ salaries “to competitive levels.”
Making “more effective use of present campus facilities.”
In this connection, Snyder noted that during the war “such facilities as dining halls and gymnasiums were used in shifts. Laboratories, classrooms, and libraries were used for longer hours than in peace time, and afternoons, evenings, and Sundays were employed for classroom work.”
Finds “War" Still On
“The war is not over for the colleges,” he continued. “Until they can catch up with the demand for their services, they will be forced to use every physical resource to capacity and to postpone re-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our twn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
sumption of their normal, and desirable, peace time pace of operation.”
Snyder’s estimates of prospective enrollment applications were based on continuation of the draft without exemption of 18 and 19 year olds. The house voted such exemption and the measure is pending in the senate.
Snyder estimated that 145,000 youths being graduated from high school this year will apply for college enrollment in the fall if the teen-age draft is continued and that 275,000 will seek to enroll if teen-agers are exempted. Even the 145,000, he noted, would represent an increase of 25,000 in the high school graduate category over last year’s enrollment applications.
Earlier Estimates Upset
The estimate of 970,000 veterans seeking enrollment next fall represents 9 per cent of those eligible under the G.I. bill of rights and is an increase over previous estimates.
“Even more veterans will be enrolled in the fall of 1947,” Snyder added, “and the peak of veterans’ enrollment probably will not be reached until the fall of 1948. Not until 1950-’51 will the number of veterans in college begin to decline significantly.”
Cost Billion in Year
The federal government will spend at least 1 billion dollars for the college education of veterans in the 1946-’47 school year if about 700,000 veterans are enrolled, the report noted.
“Over the years,” it continued, “the federal government will spend approximately 6 billion dollars for college education of World War II veterans—almost half as much as was the total for all purposes spent for all benefits to veterans of World War I.”
Col. Gabreski. AAF
Ace. to Leave Army
Col. Francis S. Gabreski, former Notre Dame student and the A.A.F.’s top scoring ace of the European Theater of Operations during World War II, is leaving the Army, it was learned this week at Notre Dame.
Col. Gabreski, who has 31 German
The former Notre Dame student wears the Polish Air Force wings, as well as the AAF wings, the Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star with a cluster, Distinguished Flying Cross with nine clusters, French Legion of Honor, Croix de Guerre with palm, Polish Cross of Valor, Air Medal with four clusters, Bronze Star, Pacific theatre ribbon with a battle star, European theater ribbon with a battle star and seven overseas bars.
During his 49 months overseas, Gabreski completed 166 missions against the Germans and Japs flying a total of over 400 combat hours. During-this time he shot down 28 German fighter planes in the air and destroyed three on the ground.
Col. Gabreski said that he wanted to “take it easy for a while” and then work in the aviation industry where he intends to “utilize AAF experience to advantage.”
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
THY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
33
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
SACKMASTER'S CLUB:
Founded in Texas many months ago by a few dormant Air Corps pilots, the Sackmaster’s Club now appears on our campus via several members of both the Vets and N. Y. Met Clubs. This distinguished organization is dedicated to the conservation of energy for studies and includes all who consider the waking hours wasted hours. Members of this club wear an imaginary pair of wings, with command pilot -wings for veteran sack lovers. Incidentally, a sack is anything that remotely resembles a bunk or bed.
The five simple rules that govern this club are as follows: 1) Each student must have in his Sack Log Book at least three weeks of sack time or the equivalent thereof. 2) The student, after becoming a member, must be found in his sack during all his spare time, not including time spent in studying or Grottovisiting. Before and after meals, after evening prayers and during all spare moments the student should be resting. 3) The student must sleep late in the morning, that is right up to Mess call. Upon being aroused each student must have a good collection of choice words. Profanity is frowned upon. 4) Each student must spend at least one week-end each month in the sack, rising only for Sunday Mass and dinner, or in cases of extreme hunger, Sunday supper. Married men may make arrangements with the club secretary, “Quiescent” Weinberg, since this club was originally formed only for single men. Each member must have his Log Book signed weekly by Chief “Dreamy” Jim Bark. Honorary president is Joe Rose.
The Notre Dame Radio Club is still searching for hidden talent. Next semester will bring many new stars before their mike. See Jim Kress in Dillon, or in the studios, if you think you are a potential Arch Obeler or Orson Welles.-. . . The Vets Club did it again with their great dance last week. Chuck Burns provided wonderful music and all had a fine time. . . . The Propeller Club held a meeting last week. The principles
of cargo handling and landing gears was explained in a short lecture. This club is doing fine work in furthering the cause of aviation. . . . Both the California Club and the Villagers held meetings also. The California Club is trying to rent a plane to transport them home at the end of this semester. Understand the airlines want only 21C0 dollars. ... Lt. John Porte of the local Sherlock Holmeses spoke to the A.I.C.H.E. about the South Bend police laboratories. . . . The Chemical Engineers are planning a banquet for the near future. . . . The St. Louis Club is completing plans for a picnic to be held at the summer house of one of its members. This picnic is to take place some time in July. . . . The Cleveland Club has signed, sealed and delivered most of their plans for a summer formal which should set hilly Cleveland on its ear. The Hotel Carter is the place, and August 24th is the time. They are trying to contract Jan Garber for the music. . . . The N. Y. Met Club held a meeting this past Thursday night in true New York style. Movies and guest speakers were the order of the night. Arrangements were completed for their summer formal which is to brighten up the “White Way.” Yours truly even got a chance to speak along with our co-chairman Mike Weinberg and Club Prexy Don Degnan. Larry Goebler is aiding the chairmen. Incidentally, Larry is also running for the club presidency. Elections will be held before we leave school. We wholeheartedly endorse Larry as he is a fine upstanding Notre Dame student.
All club secretaries should correspond immediately with alumni officials of theii* home town. These men, most of whom are settled in influential positions, could be of great help in situations, for example, planning a summer formal. If any secretary has any trouble, such as lack of addresses, he should drop in and introduce himself to National Alumni Secretary James Armstrong, who has kindly consented to give all the help he can.
IMPORTANT:	. ..L ,
All clubs must get permission from the Office of the Prefect'of Discipline before they may hold any affairs during the summer. This should be done at once.
34
BOOKS
ST. MARY'S WANTS YOU—So Beware!
The wary bachelor peers about
It’s fear that makes him falter—
He seeks an alter ego who, Will not his ego alter.
(St. Mary’s girls catch a few anyway!)
JOKE DEPARTMENT (Maybe)
A golfer, trying to get out of a trap, said “The traps on this course are very annoying, aren’t they?”
Second golfer, trying to putt: “Yes, they are. Would you mind closing yours?”
He: “That waitei' must be a humorist.”
She: “Why?”
He: “I ordered extract of beef and he brought me a glass of milk.”
♦
POETRY WITH A VENGEANCE
Mule in back yard—lazy and sick
Boy with pin in end of stick,
Creeps up behind quiet as a mouse, Wreath on door of little boy’s house.
❖
A businessman was registering at a small hotel and a bedbug crawled slowly across the page. “Well,” he said, “I’ve been bitten by all sorts of bugs in all sorts of hotels, but this is the first time I’ve ever seen a bug crawl down to see what room I’ll be in.”
Visitor: ‘Your daughter is screaming in the parlor. Aren’t you worried?”
Mother: “No. The time to start worrying is when she stops screaming.”
♦
A hustler spied a lazy Notre Dame man lolling indolently in the sun somewhere on the campus.
“Hey, Bud,” remonstrated the go-getter, “why don’t you get yourself a job?”
“Why?” grunted the student.
“Well, you could earn a lot of money.”
“Why?” insisted our lazy friend.
“If you saved your money, you could open a bank account, wouldn’t you like that?”
“Why?”
“Well, if you had a big enough account, you could retire, and then you
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
wouldn’t have to work any more.”
“Not working now,” remarked the student.
❖
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
He doesn’t.
❖
BALEFUL NEWS
Two race horses were gossiping over theii' stalls before the Kentucky Derby. One horse said to the other, “I’m going to win the Derby.”
“How do you know?” asked his pal.
“A little while ago my master whispered in my eai- that if I won the Derby, he would give me two extra bales of hay,” replied the first horse, “and, brother, that ain’t money!”
❖
Politician: “My boy says he would like a job in your department.”
Official: “What can he do?”
Politician: “Nothing.”
Official: “That simplifies it. Then we won’t have to break him in.”
Bob: “I’ve got an awful lot of electricity in my hair.”
M. L. {on the beam) : I don’t doubt it. You always have such shocking things on your mind.”
❖
ETIQUETTE LESSON
“May I have another cake?”
“Another' cake what?”
“Another cake, please.”
“Please what?”
“Please, mother.”
“Please mother what?”
“Please mother, dear.”
“H—1, no, child! You’ve had two already.”
❖
Underwriter: “Waiter, bring me some tomato juice for a pickup.”
Waiter: “Yes, sir, and what do you want for yourself?”
❖
Three N.D. men in a bull session reached the boasting stage.
“Look at me,” said the first, “I’m six feet two in my socks.”
“Maybe,” said the second, “but I’m six feet four and a half with my hat on.”
“And I can beat the lot of you,” chimed in the third. “I’m seven feet nine —with my umbrella up.”
For your reading enjoyment: •
For One Sweet Grape Past All Dishonor Then and Now
— W. Somerset Mangham
Wilderness Adventure Alexander of Macedon Wrath in Burma Famous American
Athletes of Today
Great Horse Stories Burma Surgeon Returns
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street
"In the J. M. S. Building"
NEKS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL. DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 .
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
• -
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY •
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M. D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.. SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONK 3-2S74
35
Copyright 1946. Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.