V
C
Th e N otre Dame
Scholastic
’ 4
jixiL-lspesI
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
FEBRUARY 17 1933
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p, (Office 4-5661	X-ray °ne ^Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
		
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan Hours J1®	m- [3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entists 1 Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building ।
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
_	(10 to 11:30 a. m. ®ours |2 to 4 p.m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana .		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
Space Reserved	-	Space Reserved
February 17, 193 d
One
Can You lake a Joke?
Do You Have to Take Her to The Prom?
or Arent Y'ou Promming This Season?
Keep Yourself Happy in Spite of Everything--with the
PROM NUMBER OF THE JUGGLER!
Lovers—Ha!
Blind Dat ers—Too Bad!
Cuts by Becvar & Doyle & Prezebel Words by Degnan & Dreux & White & Others..
OUT MONDAY 25c
February 17, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	• k I '	I I B
I he INotre Dame Scholastic
scripts may be addressed to ,	,	.
the scholastic, PubH- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations Office, Main Building.	„ . IT M n r n i q k
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan James S. Kearns .
................Editor-in-Chief
................Managing	Editor .
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY............News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART	JOHN McELLIGOTT
FRANK KELLEY MICHAEL WIEDL JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS..............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ...........Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff RAY WATERS..............Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.....Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI. k ----------------
FEBRUARY 17, 1933
No. 16
S UMMA R Y
NEWS
Irish, 68, and Purdue, 27, Tells Story of Track Meet.21
Splinters From the Press Box.............................25
Washington Day Exercises and Annual Flag Presentation To Take Place Wednesday.................... 5
Bracelets Chosen as Prom Favors.................... 5
Father Ryan Gives Address on Economic Conditions to Capacity House...............................   5
“Tuffy” Griffith Will Referee The Scholastic Boxing
Show .................:.......................... 6
A	'
Scrip Comes Out Tonight............................ 7
Prom “Juggler” Will Be Released Monday.................10
Military Club Is Founded on Campus for M. A. Grads....12
“Catalyzer” Will Be Issued Next Week...................16
FEATURES
Fred Becklenberg, A Man of Ambition, is “Man About” 8
More Kiwani Konversationalists in “Voice”........ 9
“Theater Talk” by Beirne.......................  15
* Chief Komokoah Responsible for Name of Village of
Kokomo, Indiana.............................  .16
Johnson Reviews Technocracy.............;........17
SPORTS « •
Irish Overcome Pitt In Fast Moving Game...........20
Ohio State Track Team Will 'Meet Notre Dame Next
Saturday ....................................  20
Introducing Leo Keating........................      30
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Feb. 17.—Scholastic staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., editorial offices, Ave Maria building; news, sports and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Adirondack Club meeting, 7:45 p. m., basement of Walsh Hall.
SATURDAY, Feb. 18-—Movie: “Local Boy Makes Good,” Washington Hall; Basketball: Varsity vs. Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia.
SUNDAY, Feb. 19.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall Basketball games, 9:30 a. m., and 1:30 p. m., Gym.
MONDAY, Feb. 20.—Basketball: Varsity vs. Western Reserve, at Cleveland; Elimination bouts for Scholastic Boxing Show, 3:30 to 6:00 p. m.; First Interhall Trackmeet, 7:30 p. m., Gym.
TUESDAY, Feb. 21—Movie: “The Phantom of Crestwood,” Washington Hall; Further Elimination bouts for Scholastic Boxing Show, 3:30 to 6:00 p. m.; Junior Prom Ticket Sale closes.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 22.—No classes; Flag Presentation, 10:00 a. m.; Washington Day Exercises, Washington Hall; Wrangler meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
THURSDAY, Feb. 23.—Junior Class Dinner Dance ticket sale closes; Further Elimination bouts for Scholastic Boxing Show, 3:30 to 6:00 p. m.; Spectator, meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building.
Four
The Scholastic
By Tighe Woods
e
.1 HERE is a thrill attached to a trackmeet that can be found in very few other sports. It gives the spectators a chance to watch individual pitted against individual, one man’s courage and stamina against another’s. There is no possibility of covering up mistakes as in games where teamplay is the important factor. In that thrilling race between little Eddie King and Popejoy of Purdue, we kept our eyes on King’s face. Some remarked on his fine stride and flawless form but in his face we saw the driving will that kept those muscles functioning so smoothly. We saw there an example of the power of the mind over that machine, the body, and then chuckled at the fears of the Technocrats.
V
A HE campus this week said good-bye to one of its best liked philosophy teachers, Father Sydney Raemers. Father Raemers goes to the west coast with the best wishes of even the Engineers and Physical Education men, whom he loved to ride. Barring Professor O’Grady and Judge Cain, he was probably the most often quoted man on the campus. Whenever he saw the attention of the class lagging he could bring them to life with the statement, “Now I don’t want to be quoted on this, but—” That very noon the story would be making the rounds of every senior and junior table in the dining hall.
V
J.' 0 Johnny Baldwin, Voegele, Krause, Crowe and Jordan, and to Leo Keating too, this paragraph is affectionately dedicated. Basketball, once a means of saving money on a Saturday night during Lent, has come into its own at Notre Dame! Or more probably it’s that Indiana spirit seeping through. People in Indiana take -two things seriously, humor and basketball. A referee is a servant of the public in this state, and, like any mayor or district attorney, if the people don’t like his decisions, they let him know it, verbally, raucously, and definitely. Those boys from the east who looked askance at the stands of booing Notre Dame students at the Pitt game Saturday night, did not realize that it’s just an old Indiana custom, and if the referee made decisions that were satisfactory to everyone, half the spectators would be demanding their money back.
HAT good old indoor sport of “goofing” has started again. This is not being written to create sympathy for the one being “goofed,” but to defend the goofers. Notre Dame students do not go around looking for fellow students that can be easily “taken”; these fellows seem to crop up from time to time and demand the attention of the upperclassmen. A “goof” is never discovered by his own classmates. Their craving for attention from upperclassmen, and especially athletes, leads them to do the sensational. Sometimes it goes so far that the university authorities are forced to take a hand, but in the present case, we do not think it necessary. His awakening will be a sad one, but it will probably be effective enough to protect him from being “goofed” after he finishes college.
V
D OCTOR RYAN, in his lecture last Monday night, said that the burden of bringing us out of the depression rested on the politicians, the business men and the journalists. Doctor Ryan had his reasons for listing them in that cfrder. We have been disappointed in the politicians too many times to pay attention to them now, and business is not going to sacrifice business for some future Utopia. It is the journalists that will have to do the leading, the visionary, imaginative, cynical, crazy journalists. They are the only class of the three that can see farther than a fat, big-business paunch or a long, campaign cigar. They must be the foolish goats to blaze the trail back and then business-like docile sheep, will follow, and to the money bags will come the politicians, and only then will we have effective relief legislation.
V
E are still nursing bruises from the last minute rush after valentines. If this was 1929 we might have joined Joe Kurth at the fifty cent counter, but as it was, we found some nice bargains at a dime. You would be surprised at the delicate little bits of sentiment some of the rough, tough, and nasty football men buy! It was fun watching the boys choose a fitting memento for their lights o’love but when Jerry Roach came in and asked for a “lacey” one we had to leave.
February 17, 1933
Five
ANNUAL PRESENTATION
OF FLAG WEDNESDAY
Eighty-eighth Washington Day Program Arranged.
By Thomas Proctor
Wednesday, Feb. 22, Notre Dame will pause in her daily routine to honor the “Father of Our Country.” The annual Senior Class Washington Day exercises will be the chief event of the day.
An appreciation of the farewell address of Washington as president, an ode to the memory of this great American, the presentation and acceptance of an American flag, and other component parts of the customary program will feature this 88th annual celebration. Included in the program for the first time will be the song “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
Program Begins At 10:00
The program, scheduled to begin at 10 o’clock Wednesday morning, was arranged by Charles J. Fiss, program chairman, and is as follows: Song, by the audience; “An Appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address,” by James J. Boyle, A.B., ’33; Washington Day Ode, by Cornelius J. Laskowski, -C.S.C., A.B. ’33; Selection by the University Orchestra, directed by Professor Joseph Casasanta; Presentation of the Flag, by Francis A. Werner, A.B. ’33, President of the Senior Class; Acceptance of the Flag, by Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University (in the absence of the president); and the Song, “Notre Dame Our Mother,” by the audience.
Laskowski Writes Ode
Assisting Chairman Fiss in preparing the program and in selecting those to take part in it were John A. O’Connor, William J. Kenney, Charles J. Slatt, and Norman M. Bowes.
Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., was selected by this committee to write and deliver an ode to Washington. Laskowski, who will graduate from the College of Arts and Letters, is well known as a poet and writer of short-stories. During his undergraduate days he made many inspiring contributions to Scrip, the University’s literary magazine.
President Werner asks the senior (Continued on Page 16)
Novel Link Bracelets Chosen as Prom Favors
By Chairman Hoban
By Mitchell Tackley
Linked bracelets of blue and gold are the favors for the Junior Prom states John J. Hoban, general chairman of this year’s dance. Chairman Hoban also announces that corsages have been banned by popular request.
The bracelets are made of baked French enamel and are lined with gold. The links are of Notre Dame blue, St. Mary’s blue, and a golden yellow. They are arranged in alternate order with a University insignia in the center of the bracelet. Each bracelet is packed in a leather case.
Tickets Going Fast
Favorable reports have been received as to the progress of the ticket sale. Juniors who plan to attend the Prom are warned that the sale closes Tuesday, February 21. Favors and invitations will be distributed with the ticket, at the time of purchase.
The sale of tickets for the dinner dance has been opened under the direction of Chairman George Reese. These may be obtained up to and including the day before the Prom, February 23. Table reservations for as many couples as desired may be made for the dinner dance with the purchase of one ticket. The affair which will be strictly formal in nature begins at seven-thirty Saturday evening and will continue until eleven o’clock. Each of the junior halls has a representative who is selling tickets for the dance.
Patrons And Patronesses
Patrons and patronesses who will attend the Prom are Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Heartley W. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Buckley, Judge and Mrs. Albert Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. Frederick I. Myers, Mr. and Mrs. Norbert Engels, Mr. Joseph Apodaca, Mr. John A. Sullivan, Mr. Andrew Boyle, Mr. Joseph C. Ryan, Mr. Earl Langwell, Mr. Paul Fenlon, and Mr. Frank O’Malley.
There seems to be a complete blindness, deafness, stupidity and inexcusable obstinacy on the part of those administering government to those outside the doors, the millions that may be incited to revolt.—Senator Hamilton Lewis.
CAPACITY HOUSE HEARS FATHER RYAN’S ADDRESS
Urges Public Works Program; Denounces Sales Tax.
By James Byrne
“Will the Depression Ever End?” was the topic of the Reverend John A Ryan’s talk in Washington Hall last Monday evening. The house was
Rev. John A. Ryan, D.D.
“May God give them light . . .”
packed to capacity to hear this internationally known figure discourse on such a timely subject;
As Father Ryan ascended the stage and was presented to the audience by Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.,> Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, he was received with a prolonged applause. After informing his listeners that he was a Notre Dame man since he had received a degree from the University, Dr. Ryan proceeded to give an answer to the title of his address: “Will the Depression Ever End?”
“No,” he firmly asserted, “unless something drastic and fundamental is done by the government of the United States. Will the Federal Government take the necessary action? The answer and the decision depend upon one man. His name is Franklin D. Roosevelt. We should all earnestly pray God to give him the vision and courage that he will sorely need in the stupendous task of leading the American people out of this valley of indecision and despondency.”
“Consider the salient facts of the industrial depression,” continued the
(Continued on Page 13)’
Six
The Scholastic
“Tuffy” Griffith Will Referee Bengal Matches
FRENCH CLUB ELECTS G. MENARD PRESIDENT
‘GLAD TO ACCEPT’
Elimination Matches to be Held Monday Afternoon In Gymnasium.
By Howard Waldron
Gerald Ambrose (Tuffy) Griffith, one of the nation’s greatest heavyweight boxers has been secured by The Scholastic to act as referee in the Bengal Bouts to be conducted on March 3. Griffith yesterday notified boxing authorities that he would gladly accept The Scholastic’s invitation,
Len Dunn, boxing director, is endeavoring to arrange for two other prominent figures in the fighting world to be at the ringside when the gong starts the ’33 tourney.
Eliminations Monday
Another announcement of importance in the rapidly progressing arrangements is that the elimination bouts for the various classes will be held on Monday, Feb. 20, from 3:30 p. m. to 7:00 p. m. They will continue on Tuesday, at the same hours and, in some classes, eliminatons will also be held on Thursday.
These eliminations are necessary because of the quality and quantity of the contestants this year. The finalists are to be determined, at this time. The finalists will also have another week in which to attain the proper fighting shape necessary for a victory in the show the following week. The elimination bouts beginning Monday will not be open to the public. At seven o’clock Monday evening all candidates will be examined by a physician in attendance.
Champions Appear
Among the entrants in this year’s Bouts are many champions and runner-ups in boxing tournaments held in various cities and states. Some of the title holders are: Oklahoma featherweight champion; Evanston Golden Gloves featherweight king; welterweight champion of Wisconsin U.; Middleweight champion of Long Island; C. M. T. C. winners; heavy-
(Continued on Page 23)
Football Banquet To Be Held Thursday; Will
Elect 1933 N. D. Captain
On his return to South Bend last Wednesday from the coaches’ meeting in New York, Coach Anderson’s first official act was to announce that the annual monogram football banquet will be held next Thursday evening, February 23, in the University dining hall.
Anderson Toastmaster
The affair will be of a private nature insofar as no outside speakers will be secured. A representative of the faculty, the director of athletics, the coaches, and the graduating members of the 1932 varsity will be heard. By virtue of his position, Mr. Anderson will act as master of ceremonies.
Those invited to the affair include the varsity and freshman squads, the managers, and the interhall football championship team. A few special guests are to be included in the invitation list.
The banquet, an annual affair which the University gives to the team, is an event of special importance. When the napkins are folded the monogram members of the team will ballot among themselves to determine who is to captain the 1933 varsity.
A. B. Graduation List Is Posted in Main Building
Attention is called to the members of the senior class in the College of Arts and Letters to an official, though tentative, list of students who will be eligible to graduate in June. The list is posted on the bulletin board near the entrance to the Administration Building.
Any errors in the spelling of names or the omission of names should be reported promptly to the secretary of the University or the Dean. Attention is also called to the fact that appearance in cap and gown on the occasion of the Washington Day exercises is not optional but obligatory.
Prof. Langwell Shows Palaces of Monarchs.
At their regular meeting last Wednesday evening in the Architecture Building the Notre Dame French club elected some of its officers for the second semester and listened to an interesting lecture by Professor Earl i Langwell of the French Department. Plans were also formulated for the extension of the organization over the campus.
Jules de la Vergne, retiring presi-dent, acted as chairman during the election of the new president. In an unanimous vote George Menard, a — Junior in Arts and Letters, received the office. Samuel Ferrari was re- . -tained as secretary of the body while the office of vice-president formerly occupied by William Dreux will be filled at the next meeting.
Slides Shown
Following the election Mr. Langwell, faculty adviser of the club, gave. a lecture with slides on the former residence of the French monarchs, the palace of Versailles. He depicted in detail the main part of the palace, the Grand Trianon of Louis XIV, and the Petit Trianon, which he built for his queen, Marie Antoinette.
The organization will sponsor a smoker on Thursday, March 2 in the Lounge Room of the Dining hall. A quartet of male voices and two fencing matches will furnish the evening’s entertainment. George Menard, the new president, started a campaign for new members. He urged those men on the campus, who fear they do not know enough French to give the club a chance by attending one of the meetings.
Chemistry Club Smoker
On Wednesday evening the Chemists club held its annual Smoker in Carroll Recreation Hall. Invited guests included the members of the faculty of the Chemistry Department and Freshmen Chemistry club.
Cards were played with valuable prizes offered to the winners. Smokes and refreshments were served while the games were in progress.
February 17, 1933
Seven
BOOKHEN ADMIT TWO, CLOSE APPLICATIONS
Second Edition of “Scrip” To Be On Sale Tonight
Hyde Discusses Rolvaag’s Characterization.
By Lloyd Teske
George P. Krug, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, and Frank J. Shay, a sophomore in Commerce, were introduced to the informal discussions of the Bookmen last Monday evening with a talk by Samuel Hyde on the characters in O. E. Rolvaag’s novels.
Analyzes Character
Hyde analyzed character portrayal in the author’s trilogy which includes Giants in the Earth, Peder Victorious, and Their Father’s God and in Rolvaag’s separate novel, Pure Gold. The speaker showed how the Norwegian-American writer achieved a thoroughly adequate characterization by means of a general phrase rather than by minute detail. Suggestions throughout the books make the impression more vivid in the mind of the reader, but there is nothing about the outward appearance of the character that would make him, hard for anyone to imagine.
“In Rolvaag’s novels the women seem to be more accurately sketched by this psychological development,” continued Hyde,' “but this is not to say that his men are not done well. They are typical and at the same time individual Norwegian and Irish frontiersmen.” Readings from the novels illustrated the points made by the speaker.
Development Methods
Whether character portrayal by suggestion and psychological development or by minute detail is a higher art was brought up as a point of discussion. The conclusion was that accepted writers have used both with equal success and that a preference for one type of characterization is a matter of individual taste.
Krug and Shay, the new members who attended their first meeting of the Bookmen, were interview at the previous meeting and chosen from among eight applicants. Since the quota of members is now filled, application will not be received until May.
The millions of our unemployed fellow citizens have shown an extraordinarily patient temper.—Prof. Felix Frankfurter of Harvard.
Here’s The Reason Father III Wears A
Coat Occasionally
During the recent cold seizure, men about the campus were startled when they noticed Father Ill walking about the campus coatless, hatless.
Suddenly last week when the weather changed he was seen to be wearing
Reverend Bernard III, C.S.C.
Through snoio and zero weather, hatless, coatless.
a coat. This caused many to query as to the reason for the sudden change in toga when the weather became warmer.
When questioned, Father Ill explained that he always wore a coat when going to a track meet or basketball game in the gym, as well as when he attends a movie in Washington Hall. He attributed the reason to the dampness in the atmosphere of these two places rather than to the temperature.
Campus Clubs Must Pay “Dome” Bill by March 1
Payment of the ten dollar assessment for campus club photographs and write-ups in the Dome must be made by March 1.
No exception will be allowed to the rule that only those clubs which pay within the time limit will be included in the annual, regardless of whether pictures have already been taken.
Club officers are urged to pay the assessments in the Publications office, 232 Main Buidling, without delay.
IT’S FINE-SHEEDY
New Green Cover This Time; Literary Content Surpasses First Issue.
With a swanky new green cover and a literary content that can be matched -with the very best, Charles E. Sheedy’s second edition of Scrip ,-will be distributed about the campus tonight by that inimitable circulation man, Howard “Lefty” Douville. A-^ bit shorter than the first one, the current issue of Scrip has gleaned some excellent prose and poetry from a student body that has always been a little diffident and a little distant where Notre Dame’s literary quarterly was concerned.
Engels and McCabe Write Stories
Best of the fiction articles are Norbert Engels’ “Brotherly Love,” and Joseph McCabe’s “It is Summer and I am in the zvarm sand beside the sea,” the former a short story laid in a Belgian environment in Wisconsin, the latter a tale of man who loses his wife and children, but who doesn’t worry so much about the wife.
Essays of merit are Robert Emmett Ward’s “Tennyson and the Apostles” which throws an interesting sidelight on the collegiate days of the English poet, and “Chicago” by George Roche-leau. Sketches, more stories, some excellent poetry by Daniel J. Mahoney, C.S.C., and two commendable book reviews—and there you have the second issue of Scrip.
Sheedy Not A Contributor
Not in the issue himself, Editor Sheedy when asked for an appraisal of the work said: “It is fine, this time, even better than the first. We’re coming out again before Easter, and I know that there is some talent on the campus that we have never reached. Headquarters are still 348 Sorin.”	•
NOTICE!
All seniors, when calling for their caps and gowns at the Dry Cleaning Department Tuesday, must bring $1.50, the rental fee.

Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
PAPER ON PROHIBITION
IS READ AT SEMINAR
By George Leyes
It was with becoming modesty that Fred Becklenberg received the distinction thus offered him. “Why, thanks a lot,” he said; “however, I don’t see why they sent you up,” and after a little tactful dickering on both sides, “All right, if you insist, drop around Thursday morning.” Thursday came and we with it to 317 Sorin and the inquisition which followed proved mutually enjoyable.
Fred is a likeable sort of fellow, and when he meets you on the campus he’ll call you by name and not merely grunt. Snobbishness is as remote from his head as the country is from prosperity. But enough of this, and let’s see what the boy does with himself. A feature of this kind simply must contain a certain amount of stereotyped information, whether you like it or not, hence the following.
Activities!
Activities include: member of the 1932 Dome Sports Staff, (Baseball Editor) . . . member of the local Council Knights of Columbus, secretary 1931-1932 . . . member of the Chicago club . . . member and officers of the Press Club . . . member of the Presidents’ Council . .. Associate Edi- " tor and monthlv contributor of the ■Juggler .... Editor-in-Chief of the .' Santa Maria.
The first issue of the Santa Maria, the monthly publication of the Knights of Columbus, appeared last week, and Editor Fred will establish a-precedent in sending the magazine out to each of the twenty-five hundred councils in the United States.
Fred comes from Chicago, attended Mount Carmel Parochial School, and prepped at Loyola Academy. When the question of colleges was brought up, young Fred was told to go North, East, West, or South. He says he had not the slightest reason for coming to Notre Dame, but when he arrived he found sixteen other members of his graduating class here.
Journalism Major
Fred is a major in journalism, and is carrying literature courses. Studies, we hear, actually occupy a bit of his time, so much so, in fact, that he has been unable to keep up his record of a show a day, which he established in his first three years at Notre Dame. .He says that if he had a
nickel for every movie he attended he could end the depression.
He is one who despises Economics and Politics, professes no political af-
Fred Becklenberg
Ambition: A beautiful girl on each arm.
filiations, and has no favorite plan to solve the War Debt Question. He claims he can’t even keep his own budget. If you had read the last two editions of the Juggler you would have noticed that his inclinations veer to the side of writing about the big city stuff. He is happy whenever he has a suit case in his hand, and when he suddenly disappears from the campus (which is usually every weekend) he can be tracked down by his cream colored Nash convertible which is well known about Chicago areas.
Major sports have never taken any of Fred’s time. He confines his exercise to golf and swimming. Last summer he accompanied the Illinois Athletic Club Swimming Team (Water Polo Division) to the Olympics at Los Angeles. In the tryouts to determine who would represent the United States, the team lost out to Los Angeles in the finals.
On the weak half of the homo sapiens Fred professes no particular interest. He says girls can’t remember his name. The writer was very much aware, however, of five photographs conspicuously placed about the room. Like anyone else Fred has his secret ambition; unusual, too. It is to breeze into the cafeteria some day with a beautiful girl on each arm, and to gloat over the furtive glances of the rest of the inmates.
Francis Linton, A. B. Junior, Discusses Economic Problem.
Members of the Economics Seminar were addressed last Tuesday evening, in a seminar room of the Law Building, by Francis L. Linton, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. He read a paper entitled, “Prohibition in the United States, Past, Present, and Future.”
Besides an appreciation of the background of prohibition agitation, Linton pointed out the necessity of understanding the sort of occasion the war offered for passage of the Eighteenth Amendment. “No one objected to abstinence from liquor during the war,” he declared, “but because of the slowness of political procedure, war time prohibition became a law about six months after the war ended. The Anti-Saloon league was successful because it was a political organization, manned by capable politicians, and because it secured an almost unending stream of money by the very clever principle of splitting fifty-fifty, whatever fees were collected—the collector receiving half and the League, the other half.”
Great Factor In Crime
Linton also brought out the fact that prohibition was found, as a result of commissioned investigations, to be one of the greatest factors in crime today, and that the general ' trend is toward repeal. Quoting Wickersham, head of the famous law-enforcement commission, the speaker said, “Prohibition has failed. People are getting an enormous amount of intoxicating liquor, and the rising tide of anti-prohibition may be laid to the extreme character of legislation, intolerance of its promoters, the abandonment of all efforts to persuade people to aid in the movement to promote abstinence, and the placing of entire reliance on enforcement of the law.”
Regarding the future of prohibition, the speaker stated that the next five years will probably see the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, and that modified beer would return within a year, pending* action of the Supreme Court. Linton, in conclusion, presented a suggestion which advocated a public saloon different from that of old, and free from political corruption, and which would be under state rather than federal supervision.
February 17, 1933
Nine
TWO DEBATES WITH N.U. HERE NEXT THURSDAY
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Non-Deci si on Contests To Be Held in Law Auditorium.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials ■will be used upon request.
The problem of taxation, state, local and national, in all its intrincacies • and complexities, and in all its aspects, will be echoed and reechoed Thursday afternoon and evening, February- 23 in the basement of the Law Building when debaters from Notre Dame and Northwestern Universities meet there to discuss it. According to Coach William J. Coyne, both the affirmative and negative sides of the question, “Resolved: that at least 50% of state and local revenue should be derived from some source other than a tax on tangible property,” will be argued.
Practice Debates
Both debates, one scheduled for 7 o’clock Thursday evening and the other for 4 o’clock of that afternoon, will be practice or non-decision contests. Northwestern’s “B” teams are being detained here for “wrangling” purposes while on their way to attend a debating tournament at North Manchester college, Indiana.
On the negative side of the question, Notre Dame will be represented by James Boyle, John Heywood, and Roger Brennan; Robert Schmellze, Thomas Proctor, and Eugene Blish will carry the affirmative arguments.
Both the student body and the general public are invited to attend either or both of these forensic contests.
Notre Dame Grads Pass Bar Exams in Oklahoma Recently
E. L. Hessmer, ’32, Oklahoma City, and Joseph Moran, ’32, Tulsa, graduates last year of the College of Law here, both passed the bar examinations recently in Oklahoma. Mrs. Hessmer, a graduate of the Law School of the University of Michigan, also passed the bar exams.
SENIOR CLASS NOTICE!
President Francis A. Werner announces that there will be an important meeting of the Senior Class at 12:30 p. m. Tuesday in Washington Hall. All seniors are urged to be present, because important information is to be gleaned from this meeting.
ALMOST UNANIMOUS
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
After standing around until about half-past nine the other night, a few of us waiters who had been forced to linger in attendance upon our “Ki-wani Kcnversationalists” gathered for a few moments before returning to our halls to say prayers before retiring. One of the boys remarked that too much “chop-talk” gave him what Alexander Woolcott calls “a highly localized physical discomfort.” John, the dishwasher, also lingering, broke in with:
“Guys what got so much gaff
Should lick their chops in the ‘caf.’ ”
We few waiters do not mean to travesty the rather serious idea. We know that many favor the idea.
W. C. R.
FIRST ECHOES
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
Your editorial on Monogram Initiation was uncalled for, written from a one-sided point of view, and displayed a lack of knowledge of the circumstances which accompanied the year’s ceremonies .... It would be better in the future to familiarize yourself with your ground before jumping. You have placed the whole monogram club in ill repute by your unwarranted hastiness. . . .
'	E. F. T.
The_ Scholastic took particular care in its last week’s editorial to emphasize the fact that it placed the blame for absurd ceremonies only on the few who do not understand the purpose of the Monogram club and the place it could occupy in campus life. If E. F. T. or any monogram man has taken a different interpretation of the matter The Scholastic is sympathetic but feels that it could not have made its stand more intelligible.
UNNECESSARY
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
What position does The Scholastic take this year in re: corsages for class dances? We know that if you take a definite stand it may mean loss of florist advertising, etc., but we would appreciate some expression at this time.
Junior.
The Scholastic considers corsages unnecessary equippage at the present time. Concerted action on the part of this year’s Juniors in banning flowers would not be extraordinary. Yale, Harvard and Princeton have already decided against corsages for the current school year.
Junior at Antioch College
To Codify Laws of Village
Yellow Springs, 0.—To Robert L. Dixon, 21-year-old junior at Antioch College has been given the job of codifying the ordinance of Yellow Springs Village from 1856 to the present.
Last fall Dixon, working with a group of graduate students on a survey of politics and government in Greene County, in which the village is located, found that the ordinances, entered in longhand in four old volumes, often were out of date, hard to get at and conflicting,
So he went to Mayor C. C. Stephenson and suggested that he would undertake the codification and indexing of the whole lot of ordinances “just for the experience.”
Mayor Stephenson took it up with the Council last week, and the councilmen all agreed that it would be convenient to know where their rules were. They passed a unanimous resolution empowering Dixon to do the job.
Dixon estimates that it will take him several weeks of steady work to dig out, classify and index the ordinances.
It is entirely possible that before he finishes his work it will have been found advisable to repeal many of the old and now useless ordinances.
Ten
The Scholastic
PROM “JUGGLER” WILL BE OUT NEXT NONDAY
Atmosphere of Dances, Object of Satire.
With a hev nonny-nonny and a ha-ha-ha the Prom Juggler will burst upon the campus Monday night, all dressed up in a smart and catchy cover drawn by Chief Artist Becvar. Unless we underestimate the critical faculties of the campus this cover should occasion many winks and tongues thrust in cheeks—except by those whose shaving schedules revolve about Wednesday and Sunday as focal points. And the cynical tone of the cover is continued throughout all the pages of the magazine.
More than any other of the Old Skripper’s numbers this one is restricted to one theme—the Prom. The editor seems to have the definite purpose of piercing the saccharine aura which feminine minds and movie producers have thrown about such affairs. McCabe’s pungent articles point the trend of the issue; particularly an article purporting to reveal the truth about the Prom.
Doyle Keeps Going
The work of Gerry Doyle continues to be outstanding. His versatility is particularly worthy of comment; he has an able hand at both writing and drawing. We continue to be amused by Joe Degnan’s sharply drawn wood caricatures of certain more or less annoying campus types—in this issue, the Frosh athlete. For four years we have entertained vague notions of assault and battery upon these classes of pest; but Degnan’s pen is mightier and more punitive than the fist. Along the same line of endeavor— only in the opposite trend—is Tighe Wood’s keyhole portraits. Accompanied by Prezebel’s amusing caricatures these features sketch the tributes and attributes of well-known campus figures.
All in all the Prom number of the Juggler is one of the best; and we hope it will receive a cordial attention.
The political reactionary apparently believes that the only good government is a dead government.—Arthur Branders.
IRISH CLUB DISCUSSES PARNELL, ENGLISH RELATIONS.
At its last meeting the Irish club heard Willard J. Higgins and Roger Donoghue speak upon “Charles Stu-wart Parnell” and “Anglo-Irish Hostilities,” respectively.
Higgins discussed most of the many important ways in which Parnell helped to secure mitigation of the persecutions of the Irish practiced by the English during the nineteenth century. He told of the means that Parnell, as a member of the House of Commons from Ireland, used to overcome or defeat opposition in Parliament. He often used obstructionist!*, tactics comparable to the filibusters staged in the U. S. Senate. Probably Parnell’s greatest accomplishment was the founding of the Irish Land League.
Gives Parnell’s History
Charles Parnell, according to the speaker, was himself not an Irishman by heritage. Although he was born in Ireland, his father was English and his mother American.
Donoghue, in his talk, devoted most attention to the program being followed by President de Valera and his followers in their relations to England.
It was pointed out that Ireland is almost self-supporting and if it can withstand long enough the economic losses entailed in the present English tariffs on its exports to England, de Valera’s program should be successful. This will mean eventually complete freedom for Ireland as a nation
Adirondack Club to Meet
The Adirondack club of Notre Dame will hold a meeting in the basement of Walsh Hall this evening at 7:45 o’clock. President James C. Munn requests that all members be present
At this meeting affairs of a business and a social nature will be discussed.
NOTICE!
Seniors in the College of Science will hand in a formal report on the work of their thesis on Wednesday, March 1.
The final copy of the thesis is due on April 1.
CHEMISTS’ CLUB ELECTS
SCHWARTZ PRESIDENT
Annual Election Of Officers Held Wednesday.
Charles J. Schwartz, junior in Chemical Engineering, was elected president of the Chemists’ club in the annual election of officers at the meeting held last Wednesday.
The other newly elected officers are: Edward A. Bried, vice-president; Grenville N. King, secretary- x treasurer; and Robert T. Fitzsim--mons, member-at-large. The retiring officers are: Sylvester Rapier, John Dobinsky, Fred Weniger, and Elmer Harkolus.
An interesting talk, “Underground Erosion,” was given by Edward Leroux. Special emphasis was made by the speaker on the large part which physical chemistry plays in the electric testing of the coating used in the preservation of oil pipe.
Robert Johnson addressed the club on the subject of “Chemical Shorthand.” The symbols and the methods used in writing intricate formulae were demonstrated by the speaker. The ease and rapidity with which this system may be employed was stressed by the speaker.
Professors Groom And Seidel In Recitals
On the evening of the 8th of February, Professors Seidel and Groom of the University Music department gave a recital at Dujarie Hall. The program was a brilliant one, including some of the permier works of Brahms, Handel and Grieg.
At the close of the concert, Brother Agatho, Superior of Dujarie Hall, thanked the two men for their generous offerings, adding that he was certainly happy that the Brothers had the advantage of studying music under such instruction.
On Feb. 3 the Polar Year Expedition of Pan-American Airways and the University of Michigan at Peary Lodge, Greenland, saw the sun for the first time this year. The expedition is attempting to discover, by studying air currents that affect transatlantic flights, whether the earth is recovering from a past ice age or is entering a new one.
Eleven
February 17, 1933
“SCHOLASTIC” REVIEWS CURRENT “BENGALESE”
Publication Contains Many Interesting Articles.
By Louis Hruby
The February issue of the Bengalese, published by the Foreign Mission Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross contains several interesting and informing facts.
An article, the second of a series, on the Missions, written by Bishop T. J. Crowley, C.S.C., narrates some of the problems that are confronting the religious in India. More specifically the author treats of the native catechists, and of their relation to the important duty of the propagation of the faith. A comment by Pope Pius XI in which he states that much is expected from these native catechists because of their influence and example, is the basis of the article. The author further explains the course of instruction the catechists themselves undergo before they are set into the missionary fields.
Bengalese Marry Young
“The Catholic Church vs. Caste,” written by a veteran missionary, chronicles the attitude of different Indian Missions toward caste at various times during its history. The caste question has long been of much controversy.
An absorbing story titled “Before Lent” tells of the marriages of young native girls of fourteen to youths of eighteen or above, explaining the necessary catechistic requirements for publication of the banns. Apparently it is the objective of all native parents to have their daughters married as soon as they are of age, because the pre-Lenten classes are full of hopeful aspirants, and the parents look with much concern upon the outcome of the catechistic examinations which determine whether or not the banns will be published.
The usual columns, “Ben’s Broadcast,” and the “Club Chronicle contain much news of the activities in the foreign lands as well as that which is taking place here in the United States in mission interests.
The cover of the February issue of The Bengalese depicts a native mother with her two robust, grinning, sun-browned youngsters.
The Bengalese, edited by the Reverend John Delaunay, C.S.C., is a monthly publication of the Congrega-
FR. MILTNER APPOINTED INSPECTOR BY COLLEGE ASSOCIATION.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed by the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities to inspect the University of Detroit last week. His co-inspector was Dr. E. E. Lewis of the faculty of Ohio State University.
The North Central Association, of which every accredited school in the vicinity is a member, makes a practice of re-inspecting its constituent members at intervals in order to insure the observance of its academic standards.
Father Miltner and Professor Lewis were cordially received and entertained by President Poetger of the University of Detroit. The president showed the visitors through several of the new buildings on the campus.
Father Miltner has been the official representative of Notre Dame for the past several years at the regular .meetings of the Association.
Flint Gives Address
At Patricians’ Meeting
Robert Flint, president of the Patricians, presented the address at the regular meeting Tuesday night in the Law Building.
The topic of Quinn’s talk, was “Quintillian in the History of Edu-caion.” This was a comparison between the method’s of education used by Quintillian, and those of educators who came after him. As a basis for his speech, Flint used the book, “Quintillian Institutes.”
During his talk Flint revealed that in contrast to Cicero’s staccato manner of writing, Quintillian used a smooth flowing style of the Silver Age.
This Roman writer, one of the wealthy of that period, was a remarkable man. He advocated children’s memorizing lessons, and also sanctioned certain discipline in schools. Flint said, “Quintillian believed that a teacher should give only the best that is in him, and that if there should come a time in his life when he could only give less than the best, then the teacher should retire.”
tion of Holy Cross at the Foreign Mission Seminary in Brookland, D. C. The subscription price is one dollar per year.
SURVEY IS COMPLETED BY COMMERCE STUDENTS
Results Show Trend of Styles Prices, and Markets.
The Commerce Forum has completed their recent survey on clothing. The purpose of the survey was to determine the styles, prices, and markets most popular with the students.
The greater number of the students purchase their clothes at home rather than in South Bend, and the quality, style, and price were found to be the main criteria employed in the selection of new apparel.
It was found that every student except one among those who were included in the survey wore black shoes, and that sport shoes are popular also.
An overwhelming majority of the responses to the question “Do you patronize merchants who advertise in the various school publications?” was in the affirmative.
Among the interesting data compiled were the statements that 56 per cent wear cords, the prevailing colors being tan, white, and brown; and that light-weight, snap-brim hats of the gray and brown shades are given a decided preference.
Dr. Mary Woolley Sees A Quick End To All War
Washington—Dr. Mary E. Woolley, president of Mount Holyoke College and the only woman member of the disarmament conference at Geneva, said here last week that she was confident the time would come when killing men on the battle field would seem as illogical as it now would to burn a witch in front of New York City’s Public Library.
She made the statement at the Conference on the Cause and Cure of War, of which she is one of the leaders.
“The habit of war is so old,” she said, “it is hard to shake off. The delegates are agreed that killing men over national differences is barbaric, but behind their willingness to scrap war machinery survives still some fear of the other man and of leaving the home-land unprotected.
“Even so, when the delegates finally agree on a point the treaties will have to be ratified by Congresses and Parliaments at home.”
Twelve
The Scholastic
MILITARY SCHOOL GRADS ORGANIZE CANPUS CLUB
Twenty Attend Initial Meet of New Group.
Twenty students were present at the first meeting of military school graduates last Monday evening, February 13, in Room 101 of the Commerce Building. The purpose of the gathering was to establish a campus club among graduates of military schools who have received reserve commissions in the Army, or are eligible to receive them.
Constitution To Be Drawn
Professor Herbert J. Bott of the Commerce School and Mr. Robert B. Riordan, Registrar of the University, who were veteran army officers in the A. E. F., took charge of the meeting and will act as faculty advisers of the newly formed club. A committee of seven was appointed by Professor Bott to draw up a constitution for the proposed club, and among other tilings, to decide upon a definite name for the organization and to determine its functions.
Heading the committee which has representatives of seven different military schools is P. T. Osborn, chairman, (Staunton M. A.), assisted by M. J. Scanlon (Morgan Park), G. T. Grimes (Northwestern), H. W. May (Culver), J. C. McDevitt (La Salle M. A. of L. I.), John Flynn (New York M. A.), and George Ireland (Campion). Chairman Osborn requests these members to be present at a meeting Monday evening, February 20, in his room at Sorin Hall.
Meeting Next Week
Non - commissioned students who have had some military training may join the club, and will be given the opportunity to complete their work in obtaining reserve commissions. The amount of work involved is comparatively small, and will be associated with the South Bend Troop school which holds meetings only twice a month. Further plans and arrangements will be submitted by the committee at the next meeting which will be held within the next week or so.
ADVISER
Mr. Robert B. Riordan
A military man heads a Notre Dame military club.
Distribute Lenten Adoration Cards Through All Halls
Cards for Lenten Adoration have been distributed during the past week. Commencing on Feb. 26 with the Forty Hours Devotions, the Adoration will last throughout Lent. The Blessed Sacrament will be exposed in the Church from 7:30 in the morning to'5:30 in the evening. On Sundays the Blessed Sacrament will be exposed only for the evening benedictions.
The cards for adoration have been passed out by promoters in the various halls. These cards have the hour and date of adoration typed on the front and a space on the back to fill in with the name and hall number.
After being filled out they are to be handed back to the promoters who will turn them in to Father O’Hara. The day before the hour of adoration falls, for which the student has signed up, the card will be mailed to him as a reminder. In case he is unable to fulfill his promise, Father O’Hara will see that he has a substitute.
ST. VINCENT SOCIETY TO AID POOR IN VICINITY
Extensive Plans Are Made At Second Meeting.
The St. Vincent de Paul Society held their second meeting Tuesday night at 6:30 in the basement of Walsh Hall. Reverend John C. Kei-'/ ley, C.S.C., presided over the meeting. Plans were discussed for collecting magazines and old clothes.
Students will be appointed in each of the halls to call regularly at the students’ , rooms for any Catholic papers, magazines, or suitable secular magazines and books, or any clothes which the students have discarded. These will be distributed to the people in Healthwin and similar institutions or to needy families in South Bend. The Society asks the cooperation of the students in this work.
To Attend Conferences
The Notre Dame members of the St. Vincent de Paul Society plan to attend the conference meetings in the South Bend parishes and to accompany the older members of the society on cases. In this manner they will have the guidance of men experienced in that field of charity. Many of the students are finding the work interesting and several new applications have been received during the past week from those who were unable to attend the first meeting.
Tonight at 7:30 ten Notre Dame men will attend the meeting of the St. Bavo Church conference in Mishawaka. This conference has just been recently organized. Father Keller, the pastor of St. Bavo’s, invited the Notre Dame students to cooperate with him.
Addition To Movie Schedule Announced for Month of April
Additional movies announced this week are as follows:
April 1.—“Air Mail.”
April 8.—“The Mummy.”
April 22.—“American Madness.”
April 29.—“Washington Merry-Go-
Round.”
The success of a censor or a dictator is automatically precluded by the prodigious self-esteem which enables him to permit his elevation to such a post.—Stefan Asch.
Dean Leroy M. S. Miner of the Harvard Dental School has discovered that the Egyptians had remedies for the toothache and means of tightening loose teeth 3,500 years ago.
There never has been an hour of history when the whole or anything remotely approaching the whole of any people on earth was above the poverty line.—Prof. Robert Maclver of Columbia.
February 10, 1933
Thirteen
CAPACITY HOUSE HEARS FATHER RYAN’S ADDRESS
(Continued from Page 5)
economist, “It is the worst in length and breadth and depth that has ever afflicted these United States. Since 1929 the general level of business activity has declined by almost 50 per cent. The national income has fallen in about the same measure. Employment has decreased more than 40 per cent, wage payment by 60 per cent and the income of farmers by 66 per cent. As a consequence of these losses, the purchasing power of our people has been cut in two. A further consequence is the impossibility of any sustained industrial improvement through the initiative of business men or the beneficent action of consumers,” stressed the speaker.
Urges Public Works
“The only rational measure adequate to bring about the beginning of business recovery is a very large program of public works. Congress should authorize the sale of six to eight billion dollars of bonds to finance federal, state, and municipal construction of permanent public utilities. Highways, forestry, reforestation, flood control, improvement of navigation and elimination of railroad grade crossings indicate the principal federal operations,” Dr. -Ryan explained.
In summarizing the advantage in public works over any other method of reviving business, particularly over any form of direct inflation, the speaker said, “In the first place, they would enrich the community with public benefits, public wealth, public utilities and improvements which our resources of men and materials are amply able to provide in addition to all of the necessary private goods and services.
Inflate Industry
“Secondly,” he continued, the public works program would apply the remedial action just where it ought to be applied, that is, to the recreation of purchasing power in the hands of those who would use it immediately, thus giving an immediate impetus to business. In the third place, this program could be so devised and administered as to provide employment directly and indirectly for several million workers within a few months.
BALLIKOOK
S. Jerome Roach
A baritone chef will present a musical ‘‘Apple Pie.”
Finally, it would give to our industrial life all the inflation that is useful and safe, both for the increase of prices and the benefit of debtors; and the inflation would be under definite control.”
Gives Greatest Obstacles
“In America we have the natural resources, the machinery, the manpower and the intelligence to provide a more abundant life for all our people than anything we have known in the past. The great obstacles are the greed of the few who still enjoy an abundance of comforts, the timidity of the many who have never learned to think courageously because our mechanical civilization has given them the endowment of a slave mind, and the cowardice of those who occupy positions of leadership in politics, business and journalism. Upon the latter three classes rests a responsibility that is at once terrifying and of unprecedented urgency. God grant that they may realize this responsibility and its implications while there is yet time. May God give them the light to see that the time is short,” concluded Father Ryan.
Upon the completion of his address the lecturer was gracious enough to answer, in detail, the questions asked by a number of the members of the audience. In spite of the gravity of his subject, Dr. Ryan adroitly injected bits of humor that made his lecture engaging as well as informative throughout.
REHEARSALS PROGRESS FOR “THE VAGABONDS”
S. Jerome Roach to Sing Part of “Ballikook.”
The Freshman operetta, “The Vagabonds,” which is to be presented in Washington Hall on the evening of March 29, 30 and 31, is being rehearsed regularly under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music.
S. Jerome Roach, baritone in the Notre Dame Glee club, will portray the role of “Ballikook,” the genial chef. Roach will give a solo of “The Apple Pie Song,” one of the outstanding musical hits of the show.
Other Singers In Cast
Other campus singers who will appear in the production are John Ryan, E. D. Quinn and George Menard, of the Glee club, and a number of newcomers.
The show will be presented under the auspices of the Freshman class. The Reverend Charles McAllister, -C.S.C., will assist Professor Casasanta in directing the play.
A general admission fee of twenty-five cents will be charged to all who attend the show. The entire profits are to be turned over to the Bengal Mission fund.
Prof. Menge Will Speak At Notre Dame College
The college of Notre Dame of Maryland, Baltimore, has extended an invitation to Professor Paul J. Menge of the Modem Language Department of the University to address the student body Feb. 23 on “The Social and Political Position of the Woman in Modem Germany.”
In addition Prof. Menge will give two illustrated lectures here, one to the Foregin Commerce club in March, on “The German Merchant and His Way of Advertising” and the other to the Physical Education and Boy Guidance Department on “The Modem German Youth Movement.”
Nicholas Murray Butler states he is for peace. There will be no peace on the American continent unless he retires to England or fights the second battle of Bunker Hill.—Representative Tinkham.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
THEATRE TALK
;By Roger
Beirne-
WACK MADE PRESIDENT OF A. B. LAY FACULTY
“Theatre Talk,” in the way of campus opinion, would like to assist in establishing a complete boycott on the condemned moving picture. The sum and substance of the ban demand is precipitated by the complete and irrefutable condemnations of t^e picture given in the Religious Bulletins during the past week.
This column would prefer conviction of talking out of turn on this matter to congratulations for talking through its foolscap on the nonexistent relations between non-art and immorality.
“Scabs”
The boycott will have its totality of effect but not through any duress. That the theatre will not be picketted is of small interest. But if we had traitors within the ranks we could well call them, after the very term of labor parlance, “scabs.” Time was when the wearing of knickers meant an offen~e to the he-man traditions of the school, punishable by a dip in the lake, knickers and all. But all the cold waters of the two lakes would not shock the half-moral knickers of the ban-breaker to the Notre Dame man’s full length and cuff.
The designers of Notre Dame’s escutcheon which bears the sign of the cross left no room for a “Blurb.”
The following two selections delineate the two different dramatic gospels in the words of two respective disciples. The first writer, Elmer Rice, a playwright, is of the new school of repression and realism. The second writer, Otis Skinner, an actor, is of the old school of bombast and magical illusion. They are discussing Elmer Rice’s play, “We, the People,” now running on Broadway.
Rice: “Theater Has Right”
Mr. Rice in praise of “We, The People” declares in a letter to the editor of the New York Times:
“ ‘We, the People’ was not written for the ticket speculators, nor for what the Broadway boys call the carriage trade. It was written for the people who believe that the theatre can be something beside a place for entertainment and forgetfulness, that art can serve a useful, social function, that the stage is a legitimate forum for the discussion in emotional and dramatic terms of problems that can affect the lives and happiness of
millions, that the theatre has the right to touch reality and to raise its voice in behalf of social idealism.”
Mr. Skinner laments the failure in his mind of “We, the People” to raise its voice in behalf of anything but newspaper headlines:
“The play brought us for several hours in close contact with the front page and we found the effect decidedly jarring and disillusioning. . . . Most people go to the theatre for the elation given them by the portrayal of the joys and sorrows in other lives than theirs, of sacrifice and sympathy, of imagination and beauty, of aspiration and understanding, and of absurdity and folly, do not feel called upon to espouse the cause of prison reform, to cry out against the evils of civil corruption, ... or to enroll themselves under the banners of the many other propagandas.”
Welfare Of Theater
“Because facts are facts is no reason why they should be mortised into plays without proportion or appropriateness. It is dirt for dirt’s sake that rouses my resentment. Why deny the theatre its old, old quality of recreation?”
Both of these men have the welfare of the theatre paramount in their hearts. And the theatre is sympathetically capable of fostering their ideals. We fail to see how Elmer Rice can insinuate a Utopia in his faithful and often times, too closely read reproductions of life. We prefer Skinners’ impractical and impractical dreamlands for play locale.
Special Arrangement for the 1933 Prom Theme Song Will be Played By Orchestra
Marty Ross, South Bend’s leading orchestra director, and special arranger for Ben Bernie, has made a special arrangement of the 1933 Prom theme song, “Close to Me.”
The piece has been arranged in a style typical of Bernie’s and will be featured at the Prom next week by Jack Miles and his Orchestra. This is the first time that a Prom song has been orchestrated and played b y the Prom orchestra. The junior class is grateful to Mr. Ross who has made this possible.
Judge Wm. Cain is Speaker at Meeting Wednesday.
Judge William M. Cain of the Notre Dame law faculty was the guest speaker at the monthly dinner of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty club Wednesday evening, Feb. 15, at the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend. The subject of the Judge’s talk was “How the Criminal Escapes the Law and How to Stop Him.” Judge Cain stressed particularly the responsibility of the trial judge and convinced his audience that a very deplorable situation could be remedied. He cited the success of such cities as Cleveland Ohio, and Milwaukee, Wis., in effectively and expeditiously handling criminal cases. An article by Judge Cain elaborating on this subject will appear in a coming issue of the Notre Dame Laivyer.
Officers Elected
The Arts and Letters Lay Faculty club in a brief business session preceding the address of the evening, elected officers for the coming year. Prof. George J. Wack of the Modern Language Department, retiring Secretary-treasurer of the club, was elected president; Prof James F. Hines, of the Department of History, succeeded Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, to the vice-presidency; and Prof. Louis F. Buckley, of the Department of Economics, was elected secretarytreasurer. Prof. William H. Downey, Department of Economics, was the retiring president.
The words and music have been printed and will be distributed at the dance. An attractive cover on the orchestrations was drawn by Leo Beau-laurer, a junior in the School of Fine Arts. George M. Menard, Glee club soloist, will be featured during Prom evening singing the theme song.
The song “Close to Me” was composed by Francis Lavengood, a Junior in the School of Architecture, and the lyrics were written by George Fanelli, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.	.	.
February 17, 1933
Fifteen
HAGEN CHOSEN DIRECTOR OF COMMERCE FORUM
Members Taken In At Meeting Last Evening.
John R. Hagen, sophomore in the College of Commerce, was elected director of the Commerce Forum to fill the vacancy caused by the withdrawal of Matthew Daviscourt from that office. John Flanigan was chosen as the sophomore representative on the board of directors at the meeting held last evening.
The present officers of the Forum are: Francis Fogarty, president; Lucien Kempf, vice-president; John Egan, secretary; Paul Kane, treasurer; Joseph Cronin, Charles Preston, Francis Cawley, Frederick Laughna, John Sullivan, and Edward Roxas, members of the board of directors.
The names and grades of 14 applicants for membership were presented at the meeting for approval. Additional applications will be received for the next few weeks, and they must be filed with the secretary.
Orders for keys were taken during the business session. Those desiring keys are asked to inform the president of the Forum in the near future.
A new type of meeting will be inaugurated by the Forum, it was decided. Informal discussions of current problems will be conducted.
Changes in Constitution Are Made at Wranglers’ Meet
Attending their first meeting last Wednesday evening, six new members of the Wranglers participated in the changing of several rules that heretofore have been a part of the society’s constitution.
Inasmuch as the possibility of lengthy meetings might result if the present form of discussion, the Oregon system of debate, was continued, several modifications were effected. The society prescribed the following procedure for use at future meetings:
The principal speaker of the meeting is to be granted an unlimited time in which to explain his topic. When the round-the-table discussion has begun, however, only three minutes are to be given to each member who wishes to speak. Some difficulty was found in not having such a rule existing at past meetings, and the result was always a prolonged session, that really need not have taken place.
February 14 Is More Than St. Valentine's Day at N.D.
“How they brought the good news from Ghent to Aix” was a story that fired the imagination of youth when school readers were in vogue. One might not know what the good news
Good neivs was brought from Hans-beke to Lootenhulle.
was, nor why they brought it, but at least the two places came to be associated in one’s mind with something of importance.
Having no reference to that story but of immediate interest to us at Notre Dame is the fact that nine miles from Ghent is the town of Hansbeke and across the street is Lootenhulle.
Family Leaves Antwerp
On St. Valentine’s Day, 1878, they must have brought the good news from Hansbeke to Lootenhulle for it concerned both places not a little. At, ten o’clock of that morning in Hansbeke was bom a son whose mother was of Hansbeke and whose father was of Lootenhulle. And at twelve o’clock of the same day this son was baptized in the parish church and given the name Julius.
Two years and seven days later the little family was on the docks of Antwerp ready to sail for the United States and South Bend, Indiana. The father held the boy in his arms and, directing his attention to the great cathedral, hade him take a good look at it as he would probably never see it again.
History does not record the reaction of the child who was later to become
famous for his discovery of reactions in another field.
In due time the boy was entered at St. Mary’s school, South Bend, later was enrolled at Holy Cross Seminary, and in 1899 was graduated from Notre Dame with the degree of A.B.; then followed four years of theological studies at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and in 1903 he was ordained to the priesthood at Notre Dame. Thus are we introduced to the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S C. Returning to the Catholic University he took his Ph.D., in 1904. ,
Accomplishments Many
The succeeding years are so full of activities, so rich in accomplishment that even a mere list is impressive. Working primarily in Organic Chemistry he keeps himself busy in the field of Systematic Botany. Out of this grew the Midland Naturalist,
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
Famous in many fields.
which he founded in 1909. Its exchange list numbers practically every prominent journal of its kind in the world. Coincident with this was the building up of a botanical library which, together with the Greene library, now numbers over 5000 volumes, containing many rare and valuable volumes. The combined Nieuwland-Green botanical laboratory contains some 150,000 mounted specimens.
Father Nieuwland is also leader in the field of Acetylene Chemistry Research, a branch of Organic Chemistry. His activities in the field ot Synthetic Organic Chemistry research (Continued on Page 22)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Fm From Kokomo, Ind.— And Here's Why I Like It
In the opinion of its inhabitants, it’s just one of those towns that have been hit harder than all of the rest by “dapper Dan” depression. Never having been able to lay any outstanding claim to greatness by size, industry, or other means by which cities attain that so-called place above others, it is, perhaps, known as well if not better than other similar cities in our nation.
Enviable History
Satirized upon the stage and screen and ridiculed for being the lone county seat without a courthouse, Kokomo, in the middle of northern Indiana, is looked up to by surrounding cities, and possesses an interesting and enviable history. From its beginning to its present day rank as the . usual small city in a thriving state, its history has been such as to interest anyone in any way connected with it.
After the Northwest Ordinance became the governing rule in provinces of the United States, the Miami Indians, a small tribe of the Cherokees, were the main inhabitants of this section of the nation. Thus, a small cribe under a Chief Komokoah had their camp in a fair sized clearing along the shores of Wildcat creek. Their chief, one high in the supreme council ring of the Miami’s, was a man suspected by red and white alike, and carried on all of his dealings in such a way as to bring good will upon his tribal circle.
Origin Of Name
The white man, in the presence of a trader, David Foster, first established himself in a trading post on the shores of the stream and built up a thriving business of trade. Other whites came as a matter of course and the clearing took on the aspect of a village. As a necessity arose for a name, the people met it and debated over the names of Foster and the Indian chief, which latter predominated because it was he who really selected the site, and the name would mean something in truthfulness and goodfeeling between the Indian and the white man.
Flourishing from the start, as it was ideally located in the midst of farming lands, it grew and prospered as a thriving community, both during
and after the days of the red-man. As a reminder of its beginning as a cog in the nation is a moss covered cemetery secluded from the hubbub of today, and therein is erected a monument to the memory of Chief Komokoah and the pioneers that caused the city to be planted.
Editor's note: Are there any other toivns •worth writing up. Let us know about them.
Washington Day Program
(Continued from Page 5)
class to pay close attention to the following list of instructions:
A'l candidates for degrees are required to attend the Washington Day exercises of the Senior Class on the 22nd of February.
Seniors will report, with cap and gown, a half hour in advance of the ceremonies to the rooms assigned them in the Main Building.
College of Arts and Letters, rooms 112-116-118-120.
College of Science, room 117.
College of Engineering, room 123.
College of Law, room 219.
College of Commerce, rooms 222 and 227.
Programs will be distributed in these rooms which indicate the alphabetical rank of the student in the procession. Class marshalls will assist the various colleges. This order must be strictly adhered to, because a student out of rank will be marked absent. (Remember your meeting room and place in the procession as this same arrangement is to be followed at commencement.)
The procession, two abreast will leave the Main Building at 9:45 for Washington Hall, by the front steps of the Main Building. The Colleges will fall in order as they appear on the program.
Ushers will direct the seating in Washington Hall and their instructions must be strictly followed.
Official Bulletin!
The following official bulletin was issued this week from the office of the Prefect of Discipline:
“In accordance with the disciplinary policy followed by the University during past years, there will be no week-end permission granted for the week-end of Feb. 24-26, the occasion of the Junior Prom. No exception to this rule will be made.”
Public opinion (in France) is manufactures, bought and paid for by the French government, by economic interests, or by foreign subsidies.—Sherwood Eddy.
FEBRUARY “CATALYZER” TO BE ISSUED NEXT WEEK
James Danehy Is Author Of Feature Contribution.
The Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Department of Chemistry, and edited by the Notre Dame Chemist’s club, will be issued to its subscribers in the early part of next week. Francis Jenny is editor of the magazine.
The outstanding article in the February number of the publication is “Albertus Magnus; A Medieval Scientist.” It is written by James Danehy, a senior in the College of Science. The article covers a short historical sketch of Albert, recently declared a Saint by the Church. His contributions to Science are listed and several interesting comments on his work are given.
Graduate Works Reviewed
A short resume of graduate work in the Department of Chemistry is also included in the magazine. The statement is made that there are 19 students working for advanced degrees, 11 of whom will be recipients of the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. A short account of research work in the department is also given.
A list is made of all publications from the Department of Chemistry for the last year and a half. Outstanding on this list are several contributions by T. H. Vaughn, the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., E. J. Pozzi, Sr., Florentine Daly, H. Bowlus, W. S. Colcott, F. Downing, A. S. Carter, R. R. Vogt, D. J. Pflaum, H. H. Wenzke, L. H. Bald-inger, H. D. Hinton, F. J. Sowa, and E. G. Mahin.
Praise Chemical Society
In the editorial entitled “Twenty-five Years of Organized Chemical Engineering” is an account of the founding and progress of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers which marked the .first step in organized chemical engineering in America. Editor Jenny points out the difference in the terms,' “chemical engineering” and “chemistty,” and gives his opinion as to the benefits to be derived from the society in the next 25 years.
Assisting Editor Jenny on the editorial board are C. J. Schwartze, associate editor, and T. B. Dorris, assistant editor.
February 17, 1933
Seventeen
NO DECISION GIVEN ON N. D.-KENT DEBATE
Government Control of Electro Power is Subject.
Technocracy In Review: Its Nature, History, Aims
By Walter Johnson
Arguing that the federal government should control the chief sources of hydro - electric power, William Kirby and Joseph Becek represented the University of Notre Dame against Kent College of Law in Chicago in a radio debate over Station WLS Saturday, February 11 at 12:30 p. m.
The Notre Dame debaters contended that at present trusts and concerns spend too much on propaganda, that they produce cheaply enough to lower the rates considerably and that the federal government could control the power plants much more efficiently.
Kirby, Becek, “Socialists”
Archibald Carey, Jr. and John Cook, debating for Kent, argued that there is no such thing as a power trust, that the rates on service are being lowered, and that the federal government would be inefficient to handle the power sources. Kirby and Becek were dubbed “socialists” as a result of their contentions.
This was a non-decision debate, though WLS will report later on decisions mailed into the station from interested listeners.
Former “Scholastic” Editor Marries In Washington
The marriage of Murray Hickey Ley, ’30, of Davenport, Iowa, to Miss Kathleen Conlon, of Washington, D. C., after a brief engagement, was . solemnized Feb. 11, in Saint Thomas the Apostle church, Washington.
Ley, while at Notre Dame was editor of The Scholastic during his senior year, 1929-30.
After a honeymoon spent in Atlantic City, N. J., the couple will make their home in Washington, D. C., where Ley is general manager of the Hickey Brothers Cigar stores, operated by his uncles.
•	A group of scientists are now
engaged in charting the ocean floor where it is five miles deep off the island and Porto Rico. The expedition is under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.
Literary circle socialism . . . defeatism . . . the bad boy of economics. Technocracy ... as popular as jigsaw puzzles . . . and as inscrutable as Einstein’s relativity. Since last November it has received an almost incalculable amount of space in current periodicals ... at present there are at least ten hurriedly written “Technocracy Primers” . . . and a monthly Technocracy Review . . . definitions, explanations, illucidations have been thrown at us incessantly. And still one can ask, with justification. “What is Technocracy?” (Incidentally. we’re not going to attempt an answer.)
- Definitions Attempted
“A group of engineers engaged in the most extensive analysis of our industrial and agricultural growth ever attempted” defines Wayne Parrish, in the New Outlook. “Technocracy is a research organization . . . composed of scientists, technologists, physicists, and biochemists. It was organized to collect and collate data on the physical functioning of the social mechanism on the North American continent . . .” is Howard Scott’s attempt in an article “Technocracy Speaks,” in the Living Age.
Columbia University started the thing in 1920, cooperating with and even subsidizing the investigations of this group composed of Charles Steinmetz, Thorsetin Veblen, ex-technocrat Scott (since his repudiation by and of Columbia) as well as a few others.
Study Of Machine Age
Their “Energy Survey of North America” was a purely technological analysis of the forces which make up our social structure, a quantitative determination of physical production of the continent, and the consumption of energy, human and machine, involved in that production. Credit, prices, wages, social reform ... all were originally outside its scope: their prominence in its literature of late is a result of premature interpretations of the technological findings of Technocracy. As such, and as yet, Technocracy is not a revolutionary, socialistic proposal; it has no doctrine, no program, no organized plan of reform, though these may,
officially, come later. Essentially it is a study of the machine age and its implications.
Technocracy Statistics
Technocracy tells us that the total capacity of United States industrial equipment is one billion horsepower, which does the work of ten billion men, or five times the earth’s population; that, in incandescent lamp manufacture, one man is doing today more in one hour than he did in 9,000 hours, as recently as 1914; that, while population has increased tenfold in the last century, energy consumption has multiplied 353 times; that, since the large scale introduction of machines, man’s ability to create energy has increased 9,000,000 times, and that 8,766,000 of that increase has come within the last thirty years. To summarize briefly its conclusions. Technocracy reports that were all our productive faculties used fully and efficiently, even under prosperity demands, not more than half of our fourteen million unemployed could be used by industry, and that their number would increase steadily and indefinitely as a result of newer improvements.
Speculate Social Science
At this point, however, the group leaves its restricted scientific field, and, on the implications of its findings, begins to speculate in the territory of social science. This condition, they tell us, is not a cause for alarm; rather, it points to a new era in economic life. It is quite possible for America and Americans to attain • the highest plant, highest standard of living in its history, to abolish poverty and want, and, through the potentialities of its machines, to use far less human energy in attaining it. A four hour, four day, working week is not only possible but probable, even necessary. Let’s use our machines to our advantage, they say, not to our destruction.
Then the technocrat Scott and his group began to theorize. Intoxicated by the wave of publicity which greeted them, they deserted their charts and their statistics for “Energy Determinants” and ergs—and we have Technocracy as popularly conceived— or misconceived.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
ECONOMICALLY SPEAKING.
Debaters at the University of Montreal now are attacking the problem, “Which Kind of a Kiss, Long or Short, Has the More Bliss?” The affirmative side is using the Marginal Utility theory to show that there is a law of ‘diminishing returns’ in the amount of satisfaction obtained from a long kiss. The negative side is using the well-known theory that “anything worth doing is worth doing well.”
AT LAST IT’S COME TO THIS!
A device which automatically corrects certain types of examinations and calculates their scores has been patented by a professor at Ohio State university.
AN ALARMING SITUATION!
Professors who have trouble keeping students awake in their classes might follow the plan of a University of Minnesota instructor. When a half dozen students fell asleep in class last week the instructor, instead of bringing them to life with a rude shout, reached into his desk and drew forth an alarm clock which he proceeded to wind • and set with great ceremony. And, were there some red faces when the alai*m sounded forth in a few seconds!
ANOTHER RATIO.
A professor at Wichita University recently declared that to be a success a girl must depend 85 per cent on personality and only 15 per cent on brains.
IT’S THE WOMAN WHO DIETS.
The amount of food consumed by the 66 men in their co-operative dormitory at the University of Colorado is almost double that used by 65 coeds in one of the dormitories, a recent survey showed.
IS OUR SUPPOSITION WRONG?
University students read just as much plebian “stuff” as ordinary people, a survey of campus and off-campus magazines at the University of Minnesota revealed.
Collier's and the Saturday Evening Post are the most read periodicals on the campus, and such magazines as the Nation and the Golden Book
make a very dismal showing in an atmosphere supposedly as intellectual as a university campus.
THE ENGLISH MAJOR’S EDEN.
If you went to the University of North Carolina and took all the courses offered by the department of English in its regular session, it would take seventy-nine years to finish. And that, only if you were exceptionally brilliant.
QUOD NUPER
The latest Bull, issued by the reigning Pontiff, Pius XI, is like a covering of oil poured upon a tempestuous sea. It comes at a time when the countries of the world are torn with internal strife and international dissension. Perhaps never in history have man’s ambitions and dreams been so rudely shattered; never has his confidence in himself been so blindly destroyed. On all sides feelings of mutual distrust have sprung up, leading in some instances practically to declaration of war.
Then in the midst of turmoil and confusion we hear the Voice of Rome descending into the black abyss, and beseeching Christians of every nationality to forget temporal matters, to raise their thoughts to God, and do penance for their own sins as well as those of mankind. Especially fitting and in keeping with the coming celebration of the nineteenth centenary of Christ’s death are these counsels of the Holy Father. In meditation upon the supreme sufferings and sacrifice of the Master, he urges the faithful to find solace in their want, and peace of mind and soul in their bitterness and discouragement.
To lead the world from the morass of depression and ill-will, it is first necessary to rebuild the morale of the people. The ideal way of doing this is to revert their attention from the avaricious desire for material things to the more important considerations of life, namely the adoration of . God and the kindly treatment of one’s fellow men. It is only in the fulfillment of these fundamental obligations that we can secure foreign and domestic tranquility, and the peaceful satisfaction for which our souls crave. All this is enunciated in the papal Bull proclaiming a period of prayer and pilgrimage to Rome. Indeed it is crystallized in the Pope’s prayer that the Holy Year may “bring peace to souls, to the Church that liberty everywhere due her, to all peoples concord and true prosperity.”—Georgetown Hoya.
February 17, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
RUSSIAN RUBLES
Although it is difficult for a Christian to find anything exemplary in the life of Soviet Russia we have to admit that comrade Stalin and his associates have a perfect knack of crashing into American headlines. The Russian holds some inexplicable charm over our press. From the time of the revolution in 1917 to the present day a panorama of wild mobs, hunger-crazed peasants, gigantic turbines, superhuman effort, and red propaganda has flashed before American eyes until we wonder of what stuff these Russians are made.
And now eight hundred college professors have beseiged Mr. Roosevelt with a petition to recognize Russia. The reasons are purely economic: Russian trade with the United States has jumped mightily during the last decade when we have been on anything but amicable relations with the communists. What would it be like, they ask, if we recognize the country? Wouldn’t exports boom, wouldn’t a favorable balance of trade ensue, and wouldn’t this help us to get off dead center?
We say yes, it probably would. The economic argument is unbeatable, other things being equal. But they are not. When we consider recognition it is imperative to go further into the question than the number of Fords we might ship across, or the purchasing power of the average Soviet peasant. Anybody who has given the Russian question the slightest attention knows that the Communist party is the all in all as far as governmental power is concerned. The communist party itself has as one of its most cherished principles the overthrow of all capitalistic countries—by hook or by crook. The United States government is just one of the obstacles in the way of a worldwide orgy of Red slaughter.
This isn’t any secret either. Pick up a communist paper or Stalin’s last speech and it will be there in some way or other. Class-warfare is their instrument, discontent, their field of operation. Overlooking the fact that Russia is a very dissolute land, that marriage and God and the equality of man are things to be outlawed (and these are rather large items for a decent individual to overlook), advocates of recognition still must rationalize this: it would be diplomatic suicide to be on friendly terms with a nation that is essentially unfriendly, a nation that plans and plots the destruction of those things that make America what it is and Russia what it is not. The eight hundred college professors know most of this but are more impressed by the Russian ruble.
V
“THE SIGN OF THE CROSS”
We have made up our minds definitely not .to see “The Sign of The Cross.” We knew very little about it until it was condemned by the Bulletin, but it is apparently an attempt at prostituting something divine—and bases its box office appeal on that very thing.
If the South Bend theater’which is sponsoring the production really has made provisions for a side entrance for students it has insulted the intelligence and the religion of the Notre Dame man.
Movie managers are necessarily calloused to the morality of any picture, but when they make a mistake they might at least admit it. The greater part of the condemnation, however, goes to the half-baked magnates in Hollywood who feel it is their own peculiar right to take history into their hands and do what they please with it. We might be inclined to forgive them a bit, though, on the grounds of invincible ignorance.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Whip Panthers 38 to 31
Inspired Keoganite Quintet Stages Sensational Rally In Last Minutes
BUCKEYE TRACK TEAM
E NEXT SATURDAY
Johnny Jordan Puts Game On Ice; Voegele And Baldwin Lead Notre Dame Scorers.
By John D. Carbine
Absorbing a terrific tension of the capacity crowd, spurred on by the desire for revenge, shooting much more accurately and passing much more skillfully than they had at any other time this season, Notre Dame’s fighting basketball team spurted last Saturday night to a 38 to 31 victory j over the Panthers of Pitt.
It was Johnny Jordan who sank - ' the baskets which gave the Irish a lead that Pitt never overcame. But to give any one man credit for the Notre Dame victory •would be unjust. The Notre Dame team was at its peak—both as a team and as individuals.
Baldwin Drops Four
The good right arm of Joe Voegele £' was devoted to flipping in baskets, and recovering the ball time and again from scrambles on the floor. Johnny Baldwin arched in four beautiful long shots in the first ten minutes before, with three personal fouls chalked up against him, he was removed to be held in reserve. Krause from his pivot position fed the ball to the accurate shooting Jordan and Voegele and collected five free throws and a field goal in his own right. Leo Crowe contributed to the caused with a field goal and four free throws.
The Pitt team was a classy slow breaking and accurate shooting outfit. Their defeat may be attributed to the fact that their plan of defense was to stop Big Ed Krause. They were, to a certain extent, successful in this plan but, unfortunately, they neglected to consider Messrs. Voegele, Baldwin, and Jordan.
After a nip and tuck battle all the way, a final desperate Irish spurt led by Jordan in the last four minutes of play netted Notre Dame a seven point lead. With the score, Pitt 28, Notre Dame 26, Jordan made a neat
Joe Voegele
A riot of arms and baskets.
pot shot and Voegele followed it up with a long shot to give the Keogan-ites a lead they never relinquished.
But Jordan was not content with a mere two point lead; he shot again and once again the scorer added two points to the Notre Dame total. Pitt made two free throws but this was a futile gesture as Crowe broke through the Panther defense to give the Irish a four point lead, and a moment later Jordan made his third basket within three minutes of play.
Pitt Drive Useless
Pitt then heaved desperate but useless passes from one end of the court to the other that were reminiscent of those desperate and useless passes which a chaotic Notre Dame football team threw one afternoon last fall. It remained for Joe Voegele, in the (Continued on Page 24)
Kellar, Bennett, Wonsowitz Lead Ohio State Squad.
After a lapse of two weeks, the Notre Dame track team will return to its home track next Saturday, Feb. 25, when the Ohio State squad will make its first local appearance.
The Buckeye squad is led by a trio of the best college trackmen in the country. Captain Jack Kellar is the standout performer of the group that includes Don Benentt and John Wonsowitz.
Formed Libby Star
Since the graduation of George Sal-ing from college ranks, there is little question that Jack Kellar is the greatest collegiate hurdler in the country. He has been timed in :14.4 for the 120-yard high hurdles outdoors, and has turned in times equally sensational in the low hurdle event.
Bennett, who first came into prominence a few years back as a member of the Libby High school team of Toledo, is the leading sprinter on the State squad. The third member of the leading trio, Johnny Wonsowitz, specializes in the pole vault.
From Froebel Of Gary
A few years back, Wonsowitz was performing for Froebel of Gary, and . while in competition there, won the Ohio State and Marquette Relays’ interscholastic pole vaulting crowns. During his senior year, Wonsowitz won the Ohio State Relays’ event in Columbus on Friday, and Hie Marquette Relays’ pole vault title the following afternoon. His highest mark in college is 13 feet, 6 inches.
The rapid development shown by the Notre Dame squad indicates that they will be able to give the Buckeyes a good deal of competition in the busi-■ ness of scoring points.
Twenty-one
February 17, 1933
INTERHALL LEAGUES
PLAY SECOND ROUND
Irish Tracksters Swamp
Purdue Team 68 to 21
Morrissey and Off-Campus Win Again; Howard Beaten.
By Nick Connor
As a result of last Sunday’s Interhall games a number of teams are still undefeated, some have broken even, and still others have yet to win.
STANDINGS
Heavyweights
GROUP I.	W
Lyons .................. 2
Morrissey ............... 2
St. Edward’s ............ 1
Dillon .................. 1
Corby ................... 0
Badin ................... 0
Sorin ................... 0
GROUP II.	W
Off Campus ............ 2
Alumni ................ 1
Carroll ............... 1
Freshman .............. 1
Howard ................ 1
Walsh ................. 0
L	Pct.
0	1.000
0	1.000
1	.500
1	.500
1	.000
1	.000
2	.000
L	Pct.
0	1.000
0	1.000
1	.500
1	.500
1	.500
1	.000
Brownson .............. 0	2	.000
Lightweights
GROUP I.	W
Corby .................. 1
St. Edward’s .......... 2
Morrissey .............. 2
Sorin .................. 1
Badin .................. 0
Dillon ................. 0
Lyons .................. 0
GROUP n.	W
Carroll ................ 2
Howard ................. 2
Freshman ............... 1
Brownson ............... 1
Alumni ................. 0
Off Campus ........... 0
Walsh .................. 0
L	Pct.
0	1.000
0	1.000
0	1.000
1	.500
1	.000
2	.000
2	.000
L	Pct.
0	1.000
0	1.000
1	.500
1	.500
1	.000
2	.000
1	.000
Morrissey is the only team in either group that can boast of having its teams at the top of both the heavyweight and lightweight standings.
Morrissey’s two teams won from the two Dillon quintets. In the heavyweight Lyons defeated Corby, but in the lightweight division Corby reversed the tables on Lyons. The heavy and light St. Ed’s teams found little opposition in their senior opponents, Sorin.
Alumni found plenty of trouble in Yerley and Carroll in the hefty division while Tobin and Clark led the Carrollites to an easy victory over the young Alumni. Off-Campus swamped Howard in the senior division, but the Off-Campus lights failed to put (Continued on Page 26)
TIP-OFFS
________By Al McGuf_____
The Varsity is to be commended on its wonderful game against Pitt last Saturday. A fighting determination to win was the team’s best play that game.
Do you know that Pitt connected with just two under-the-basket shots in that great game? The zone defense that Coach George Keogan constructed in a week’s time was certainly baffling to the Pitt players.
The battle between the two great centers was some contest, don’t you think? This fellow Cribbs might be called the greatest center in the game by some Eastern critics, but to the column he is just another man when you start to compare him with the Moose. Wonder if any Eastern men saw either of the games in which these two men fought? If thev did and still hold their man as the better of the two — they certainly must judge by a different scoring system than we know of.
Joe (Arms) Voegele certainly played one of the finest games ever played or witnessed on our floor. He was, as they say in football, the fifth man in the enemy’s backfield. Joe collected eleven points in that big game and proved himself one of the most dependable men in the game today. He can always be called upon to get a good portion of the points made.
Here is one for the books. This Don Smith of Pitt who has scored over two hundred points this season was held to his lowest scoring mark by Leo Crowe. When you stop and look at the Pitt captain’s record for the past three years you can realize just what an honor it is to hold him to five points. Nice work, Leo.
It seems that Captain Baldwin can . hit that hoop with ease when he plays against Pitt. In the Smoky City he hit the net for five baskets. The other (Continued on Page 31)
SCORE TWO SLAMS
N. D. Runners Sweep 880 and 60-Yard Events; Ed King is Beaten by Popejoy in Mile.
By Edward Van Huisseling
In its initial home appearance last Friday the Irish track team chalked up its first victory of the year at the expense of Purdue. The final score was 68 to 27.
In accomplishing the expected win, the Notre Dame crew scored in every
Ed Gough
He missed a record by a foul. event and made sweeps in two of them.
The grand slams came in the 60 yard dash and the 880 yard run. Dilling led the field to the finish of the sprint with his teammates, Nockles and Huller, only inches behind him. Troy’s first victory as a varsity half-miler led the way to the other sweep with Roberts and Sheils outdistancing Purdue’s entries to finish in the scoring.
Popejoy Beats King
Popejoy accounted for one of the best showings of the evening with his victory in the one mile run. Eddie King pressed the Boilermaker ace for the first half mile but found Popejoy’s pace for the remaining distance too fast and dropped back to let the visiting miler win in 4:26.4.
(Continued on Page 24)
Tiventy-two
The Scholastic
Cagers to Meet Penn And Western Reserve On Trip
SEE HARD GAMES
Both Opponents Have Veteran Squads; Play in Philadelphia Palestra Tomorrow Night.
By Howard Waldron
Fresh from a hard-fought victory over the Panthers of Pittsburgh and with a winning streak of four straight games, the basketball Irish of Coach George Keogan will take to the road for a mighty tough weekend task. On a Saturday and Monday game basis. Notre Dame will meet two very good basketball teams in the University of Pennsylvania and Western Reserve. Both these teams were beaten last year by an identical score, 32-25.
Expect Crowd
The spacious Palestra of Pennsylvania will be filled to capacity on Saturday night when these two teams meet. At the start of the season, Pennsylvania seemed to have one of its greatest quintets with eight letter-; men returning to the fold, but after winning seven straight, they hit a slump and have lost four of their last five games. In compiling this winning streak of seven straight they de-feater Penn State, Dartmouth, Cornell, Princeton, and Navy. Navy had won seven straight till Penn defeated them. Yale, Syracuse, and Columbia are her conquerors.
However, Pennsylvania has a very powerful team and may cause an upset by downing the Irish. Penn teams have never beaten Notre Dame, and this Penn basketball quintet will be fighting to accomplish this end. Notre Dame has won six straight games from Penn in a series started back in 1927. So far this season, Notre Dame has won nine and lost six, while Penn has won eight and lost four.
Klempner Good
Captain Lester Klempner, five feet eight inch forward and spark-plug of the fast-breaking Pennsylvania attack, is a marvelous floor man and a dead-shot at short and long range. He uses a one-hand pivot shot that, together with his clever dribbling, should give Notre Dame guards a
mighty tough evening. His ability can be vouched for by Notre Dame’s Leo Keating, who played against him in high school for three years and was paired with him at forward on the 1929 New Jersey All-State Basketball team. Another proof of his prowess is shown by the fact that he has been elected Captain while only a junior in class standing, something unheard of at Pennsylvania previously.
Center, East’s Best
Bob Freeman, lanky center, is considered the cream of the crop among Eastern centers. He is six feet, four inches in height, high point man, and a wonderful shot. He is only a sophomore but should give Ed Krause, Notre Dames’ All-American, real opposition. Jack Robinson, football player, played against him in high school and reports that he is some basketball player. Freeman played for Western high, and St. Albans, of Washington, D. C.
Don Kellett, the only three sport man in the university—football, baseball, and basketball, a’ product of Peekskill M. A. — alternates at right guard with Ken Haskagen. Vince Walters, a baseball player, holds down the other guard berth. Frank O’Donnell, a sophomore is at the other forward position. Both O’Donnell and Walters are products of Roman Catholic High in Philadelphia. All thece men are good shots and are, with the exception- of Freeman and Haskagen, who is six feet, three inches, not over six feet,tall.
Reserve Tough
Western Reserve is just as formidable an opponent as the Quakers. Numbered among the Red Cats’ victims are Colgate, Ohio Wesleyan, only team to beat Ohio State, Syracuse, conqueror of Penn, and Carnegie Tech. They have defeated Tech by a score of 40-33, while Notre Dame was lucky to beat the Engineers, 37-35. Reserve was defeated by Pittsburgh, after they held the Panthers to one field goal during the first half, by a score of 27-22. Their season’s mark is six victories and four losses.
The Reserve attack centers around their star guard, Eddie Finnegan. “As Finnegan goes, so goes Reserve,” (Continued on Page 23)
ST. VALENTINE’S DAY
(Continued from Page 15)
have resulted in the publication of many articles in outstanding Chemical Journals. He is a Fellow of the Indiana Academy of Science and a Councillor of the American Chemical Society.
In 1906 he began experiments with chemical compounds, which in November of 1931 were used as basic compounds in the manufacture of “Duprene,” or synthetic rubber, by the DuPont Company. In 1926 he discovered S D.O. or synthetic drying oil as a result of his early experiments, from which the basic compounds of “D u p r e n e” had also emerged.
At the present time, Father Nieuw-land is continuing his experimental researches on Acetylene and related Compounds, with the assistance of 11 graduate students.
So St. Valentine’s Day has more than a passing interest for us. It brought a rare gift to Notre Dame and The Scholastic is happy to greet Father Nieuwland on his 55th birthday.
Sheedy Presents
THE SECOND EDITION OF
SCRIP
Notre Dame’s Literary Quarterly
V
Sivanky Cover
Short Stories Essays Poems
Book Reviews
V '
ON SALE TONIGHT In the Halls In “Caf” 25c A COPY
February 17, 1933
Twenty-three
FIRST OF INTERHALL TRACK MEETS FEB. 20
Trackmen Meet Illinois At Urbana Tomorrow
Seven Hall Teams To Meet In First Elimination.
On Monday night, February 20, track teams representing seven halls will clash in the first of the annual series of interhall track meets.
The halls named to compete in the first meet include Howard, Brownson, Carroll. Off-Campus, Freshman, Alumni, and Walsh. Entrants placing first or second in any event will qualify for the final meet to be held March 2. The second elimination meet will be held Feb. 27.
The managers in charge of the meet this week released the official list of interhall track records, together with the requirements established by the Athletic Association as the marks to be accomplished to win a freshman numeral.
Records Given
The interhall records are as follows:
60-Yard Dash—:06.4 by Jack Elder (Fr.), 1926, and John Abbatemarco (How.), 1930.
440-Yard Dash—:52.4 by Charles Kelly (Fr.), 1930.
880-Yard Run—2:05 by Cyril Caspar (W.), 1916.
Mile Run—4:27 by Edward King (Br.), 1931.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—:07.4 by Richard DuPay (Fr.), 1931.
Pole Vault—11 feet 4 inches by Raymond Cusick (O-C.), 1931.	’
Shot Put—42 feet, 4% inches by Charles Finkel (O-C.), 1931.
High Jump—5 feet 9 inches by Fred Reiman (Br.), 1928.
Broad Jump—22 feet 3 inches by John Abbatemarco (How.), 1930.
BASKETBALL TRIP
(Continued from Page 22)
is a popular saying among the Reserve rooters. Finnegan is a great defensive player, dribbler, and a dead shot. He made seventeen points against Carnegie Tech to win the game for Reserve.
George Berwald is their ace center and a mighty sweet player. He is a good floor man and a fine shot.
BOXING SHOW
(Continued from Page 6)
weight champion of Northern Lithuania ; and the runner-up in the heavyweight division of the Detroit Golden Gloves.
There are also, one champion and four runner-ups from last year’s successful Scholastic tourney, and one S.A.C. champ from 1930 entered. Interspersed among the other men are many C. Y. O. and Golden Glove entrants who will provide plenty of competition.
The list of men who will fight on Monday and the class they will be paired in is as follows:
Flyweight—Hanlon vs. Torrell; Brias vs. O’Neill.
Featherweight—Foley vs. Shovan ; Gooden vs. Varraneto; Helmer vs. Hufnagel.
Lightweight—Ciaverello vs. McGrath ; Holman vs. Malloy.
Welterweight—McLaughlin vs. Quirk : Bauman vs. Kehoe; Moran vs. Flynn ; McConnell vs. Cartin.
Middleweight—Fay vs. Ackerman: Schiavone vs. Farrell; McKernan vs. Sheehan.
Light-heavyweight—Gaul vs. Donayon ; Purcell vs. Burns.
Heavyweight—Batrow vs. Tomlinson; Po-cius vs. Michuta; Hart vs. Knappman.
On Tuesday the following bouts will be held:
Flyweight—Nerad versus the winner of Brias-O'Neiii.
Featherweight—The winner of the Foley-Shovan bout will meet the victor in the Good-en-Varraneto fracas.
Lightweight—No bouts needed. The winners of the first round will meet in the finals.
Welterweight—The winner of the McLaughlin-Quirk go will fight the winner of the Bauman-Keboe bout. The Moran-Flynn winner will take on McConnell or Cartin.
Middleweight — The Fay-Ackerman victor will meet Schiavone-Farrell winner.
Light-heavyweight—Sluzska will fight the Purcell-Bums winner.
Heavyweight — The Batrow-Tomlinson winner will meet the Pocius-Michuta victor. Zar-rantonello will meet the winner Hart-Knapp-man.
On Thursday those bouts which were not run off on Tuesday will be finished.
Americans, as they impress me, have no need of stimulants. They really should have sedatives, I believe. —John Masefield.
ILLINI FAVORITES
Woolsey, Entyre, Seely, Lead Strong Squad Against Irish; “Nick’s” Hopes Rise.
A vastly improved Blue and Gold track crew will find a big obstacle looming in its path tomorrow as Coach Nicholson leads his charges into the lair of the Illinois aggregation at Urbana.
The Ulini series is the oldest in Notre Dame track history and by far the hardest to look back upon. The Irish have met the Orange and Blue on seventeen occasions and have netted only two victories, both on the home soil. In 1930 the Illini fell, and last year they bowed in defeat, 54% to 40%.
Nicholson Optimistic
Coach Nicholson, surprised at the unexpected power displayed by his men against the fair Purdue team, is rather optimistic as to the outcome of tomorrow’s fray, but will not venture to promise a victory. With the same caliber of performances as shown in the Boilermaker festival, the Irish should make it hot for the home crowd. However, a win over an Illinois track team is something to cherish, for the Big Ten school is always represented by strong track and field men.
The showings made by Gough and Edwards in the recent Purdue meet came in for much comment from “Nick.” Edwards’ vault of 12 feet 6 inches is his lifetime record. His previous high was an even twelve feet. Eddie Gough has paid for his great work in the broad jump with a sore leg. This inj'ury will prove a great handicap to him in the meet tomorrow.
Roberts Praised
Words of praise for the work of Roberts were forthcoming from the Irish mentor, but the failure of Eddie King to round into condition has caused him no little worry. At present there is little hope of his being in top form before the Central Intercollegiate Conference struggle.
Although Illinois will not menace
(Continued on Page 31}
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
--------------- <
N. D. WHIPS PITT
(Continued from Page 20)
role of Mike Sebastian to quelch the Pitt hopes with a final basket which ended the game with the score: Notre Dame 38; Pittsburgh 31.
Notre Dame jumped out into an early five to nothing lead. Moose Kranse drew the first blood with a free throw. Baldwin heaved in a beauty from mid court, and then split the twine with another from the side to the evident amazement of the Panthers who apparently thought that Krause was the only Keoganite who could shoot.
Don Smith started off the Pitt attack with a pretty step, shot and Skippy Hayes carried on with a pot shot. Don McCamont shot Pitt into a six to five lead with a long shot but Joe Voegele flipped one in to regain the advantage for the Irish. Cribbs, the sensational Panther center, fouled Voegele for his third personal and was removed from the game. Voegele made his free throw. This setback to Pitt in the removal of Cribbs was neutralized a moment later when Johnny Baldwin was removed by Coach Keogan for the same reason.
The second half started off with a bang. Voegele pushed one in from under the basket. Ochenshirt evened the score with a long shot. Then Pitt took their first and last large lead. Charley Hughes got loose for a step shot; McComant made his toss from
VOEGELE GAINS ON KRAUSE.
(Including Pittsburgh game)
Player	*FG	FT	FTA	PCT	PF	PTS.
Krause, c			43	40	83	.482 .	30	126
Voegele, f			46	32	59	.542	36	124
Baldwin, g			31	10	20	.500	33	72
Jordan, f			28	14	28	.500	19	70
Crowe, g			14	19	29	.655	24	47
Alberts, f			 7	3	8	.375	7	17
McGuff, f-g			 6	0	1	.000	8	12
Keating, f			 4	1	3	.333	2	9
Fehlig, g			 2	0	0	.000	2	4
O’Neil, g	_	2	0	0	.000	0	4
Newbold, g			 0	2	5	.400	9	2
Mettler, f-g			 1	0	1	.000	3	2
Angsten, f 			1	0	0	.000	0	2
Ferris, c-f-g			0	0	0	.000	7	0
Holland, c			0	0	0	.000	1	0
Totals			185	121	239	.506	184	491
Opponents 			143	118	212	.557	182	404
*FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FTA—free throws attempted; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PF—personal fouls; PTS— total points.	.
the charity lane and then heaved in a long shot to shove the Panthers into a 6-1 lead. The Pitt confidence which was running high took a severe setback when Krause made a follow up shot, then a free throw, and Voegele made a field goal to tie the score.
Cribbs, the huge Panther center, now reentered the game. Within a few seconds he had intercepted one of Jordan’s passes and galloped down the floor for a shot and an easy double marker. It was unfortunate that Mr. Cribbs picked one of Jordan’s passes to intercept for this so aroused Jordan’s ire that he proceeded to go out and put the game on ice for the Irish.
The summary:
Notre Dame (38) Voegele f ...........
Jordan, f ............
Keating, f ...........
Krause, f ............
Baldwin, g ...........
Crowe, g .............
Newbold, g ...........
Fehlig, g ............
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
5	1	3	3	11
3	0	0	3	6
0	0	2	1	0
1	5	10	1	7
4	0	0	4	8
1	4	4	2	6
0	0	0	1	0
0	0	0	1	0
Totals ..............14	10	19	16	38
Pittsburgh (31)	F
Smith, f............. 1
W. Hughes,	f ..2
Wilson, f ...........0
Cribbs, c ...........2
C. Hughes,	c ..2
Ochenshirt,	g .. 1
McCamont,	g ...4
Wanio, g ............ 0
Totals ............12
Referee:	Travineck (.
Umpire:	Bolster (Pei
FT FTA PF Pts.
3	7	2	5
12 2 5 0	0	0	0
2	5	3	6
12	15
0	14	2
0	0	18
0	0	0	0
7	17	13	31
mour Tech.)
IRISH BEAT PURDUE
(Continued from Page 21)
Joe Young’s win in the two mile -race was one of the highlights of the meet. Taking the lead after rounding the first turn, he kept it throughout and crossed the finish line unchallenged. It was Young’s first attempt in the two mile run this year and was little less than sensational. He was clocked at 9:54.4.
Clyde Roberts, running for the first time in competition this year, demonstrated his ability with a second in the half mile and third in the mile run.
The most surprising performance was turned in by Jack Edwards, . sophomore pole vaulter. He was forced to the limit to win his event at 12 feet 6 inches. His third trial at the winning height was successful.
Finkel Wins Shot
Finkel with a first, and Freschi with a second in the shot put added eight points to the Irish total.
Sandbach was responsible for the second Boilermaker first place. His victory was not assured until he had put the last hurdle behind him. As they thundered down the path, Sandbach and Fagan took the hurdles to- > gether, each spilling one. The race became more heated as the finish line drew nearer and in a last desperate attempt to pull away, Fagan dumped the final hurdle, in qualifying. Pore- / dom, however, nosed out Foland for runner-up honors.	-
Bowdren set a dizzy pace in the 440 -yard dash and had a commanding lead as he came into the stretch, but his strength was exhausted and McQueen, who had been running a safe second, sprinted up to Bowdren in time to cross thre chalk line in a dead heat. The finish was so close that the decision might have gone either way. Captain MacBeth ran a X good third.	.....
Gough Misses Record
Eddie Gough and Conley rang up ' seven points for the locals in the broad jump. On one attempt, Gough -had smashed the gym record for this event but the jump was not allowed by the judges who claimed a foul on the jump.
The high jump went to Vince Murphy at 6 feet 2% inches. The rangy sophomore had no difficulty in hand- ' ing up his second consecutive victory.
•(Continued on Page 32)
February 10, 1933
Twenty-five
9
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
ing but “faith” on which to build a track team. If that was right, he should go into the revivalmeeting business.
By James S. Kearns
AN INNOVATION
“The Week’s” contrary opinion notwithstanding, we were disappointed to find that booing had entered the Notre Dame cheering scheme in wholesale lots for the Pitt game last Saturday. ■
It seemed to us that the spectators were getting more than anyone could ask for in the line of real basketball and that their booing tactics were at all times uncalled for and unwanted.
Whether or not is is «*n “old Indiana custom,” we don’t believe it is an old Notre Dame custom. It gives a very false impression of. the sportsmanship of the Irish backers, and leaves a decidedly bad taste when the game is over.
So when the urge comes again to shout for blood, divert it a little to a shout for baskets: the result will be more gratifying and the impression on visitors far better. It will be more like Notre Dame, that once was known as the “bunch that never shouts ‘robbery.’ ”
38 TO 31
Those numbers represent to us the final result of probably the finest basketball game we have ever seen. Before it is filed away as just a pleasant memory, a little credit should be applied where credit is due.
Pitt had a great offensive team. They showed that to such an extent that we still tremble a little to think of what they might have done had they been able to get in close for their shots.
An actual count is not available but it would be generous to estimate that the Panthers made four baskets from inside the free throw line. Which speaks of a real defense.
Having been raised, as far as basketball goes, on a zone defense, we were especially interested to watch an almost perfect zone system in action. Pitt seemed completely baffled by the sliding formations that George Keogan developed for their benefit.
After seeing and hearing about
second-half defensive collapses that cost the Irish several games this year, the new system was more than welcome.
More power to Baldwin and Jordan and Voegele and the rest for their scoring drives, but don’t forget the work they did on defense.
REDUCING GUARANTEED
Charley Popejoy did more than beat Eddie King in that mile race last Friday night. He forced King to such an effort that the Irish ace weighed in four pound lighter after the race than he had weighed out before the meet.
Taking off weight at practically a pound a minute should give King a claim to some title or other.
NICK’S BOYS
At the start of the season, “Nick” reported that he had noth-
Great-grandfather wore
KB Mims
BUT he lived in a different age. We don’t wear red flannels in this day of steam heat and closed cars. And we don’t need so many heavy, hot foods.
A bowl of Kellogg’s is sensible and refreshing. Rich in energy, easy to digest. Delicious for any meal. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Maybe it was faith, or maybe it was coaching, that put Jack Edwards over a 12 foot 6 inches bar in the pole vault — a foot higher than any previous vault he had made in these parts. Or that turned Ray Troy into a runner who can now lick his three-quarters-of-a-mile workout in better than 3:20, and run an 880 in 2:03.
Clyde Roberts indicated that he is about ready for a serious competition. And if he is, it will take a good half-miler to get home ahead of him. Joe Young’s two-mile debut was pleasing, albeit Joe didn’t exactly love the distance.
We’re all for “Nick,” and still believe that he’ll have an adequate point - scoring squad by spring. His men seem to progress steadily, to try unceasingly. That is our analysis of the “faith” that is making the track team—mutual faith between runners and coach.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
< i 7 r. n .v " t. -9. >
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 21)
in an appearance. Bill Golden’s two Freshman hall teams easily bumped off their traditional rivals, Brownson.
The game Sunday between Morrissey and St. Edward’s should hold the attention of any crowd as the teams are evenly matched, although St. Ed’s has lost one game by the slim margin of two points. The last of morning games will bring Corby and
TYPICAL WALK-OVER
If you want shoes that have good looks, good fit, good quality inside and out—that keep their snap as months roll on—that need none of the proverbial “breaking in”—shoes that have behind them the character and integrity of America’s oldest makers • . . then see our new line of men’s fine footwear
WALK-OVER
Shoes for Men
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Sorin together, two teams that always play inspired ball when matched against each other.
The clashes between Howard and Freshman, and Carroll and Walsh should top the afternoon’s entertainment.
Group 1: 8:30—Lyons vs. Badin; 9:30—Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s; 10:30—Corby vs. Sorin; Dillon, bye.
Group 2: 1:30—Brownson vs Alumni; 2:30—Howard vs. Freshman; 3:30—Carroll vs. Walsh; Off-Campus, bye.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Lyons 19, Corby 17.
In the first of the morning games the fast charging Lyons’ quintet gained another important step toward this years’ championship by dropping the scrappy senior team, Corby, 19 to 17. This game marked the initial appearance of the Corby five on the hardwood this season as they drew a bye in the games played last Sunday.
The game was a thriller from the start to finish although the winners held possession of the ball most of the time. The guarding of the Lyons’ guards was a feature of the game as they forced the Corby players to shoot from far out on the floor. The score at the end of the first half was 12 to 11 in favor of Lyons.
Buschio opened the scoring for Lyons in the second half with a one-hand push shot from the corner of the floor. From this stage of the game the Lyonites were never headed. Buschio was also the high point man with six points, two field goals and two fouls. Behrman was the spark plug for the Corby team by his fine floor game; and he also contributed four points to his team’s total.
Morrissey 20, Dillon 13.
Morrissey was leading 16 to 0 at the and Kranzfellow, won its second game of the 1933 season by defeating Dillon Hall 20 to 13. A last quarter rally staged by the freshmen hall was cut short by the final blast of the referee’s whistle.
Morrissey was leading to 0 at the end of a listless first quarter, both teams having thrown numerous passes into the stands. Dillon, for the frosh hall, started the fireworks in the second quarter with a short shot from around the foul circle, but baskets by Sullivan and Kranzfellow again put Morrissey into the lead. A push shot by Don Felts gave Morrissey an 8 to 2 lead, but as the half was about to end Zeipprecht sank a long shot for Dillon making the score at the end of the half 8 to 4 in favor of Morrissey.
At the start of the second half the Morrissey forward made three field goals in quick succession which seemed to take some of the fight out of the freshmen. On the tipoff following the third basket of Morrissey’s forward, Belden, center for Dillon, dribbled the length of the floor for two points. Morrissey led at the end of the third quarter 18 to 10. There
«
6

«
February 17, 1933
Tiventy-seven

were but five points scored in the final quarter due to the fact that the sophomores held the ball the majority of the time.
St. Edward’s 31, Sorin 8.
A fitting caption for this game might be, “Youth again wins from Old Age,” as the St. Edward’s team had little trouble in defeating their senior hall opponents. The sophomore hall scored points from all corners of the floor and seemingly at will the final score being 31 to 8. St. Edward’s led at the half way mark 16 to 4.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Corby 18, Lyons 11.
The Corby lightweights upheld the honor of their hall by defeating the quintet from Lyons 18 to 11, in the first of the morning games. Baskerville of Corby was the first player on the floor to score and after his basket, his team was never headed as they led 9 to 4 at the half.
Play during the third quarter was on a par but at the start of the final quarter Baskerville and Staley began
to hit the hoop with regularity and boosted their team’s total 18 points, before their opponents were able to score from the field. Nerod scored two field goals in the final minutes of the fourth quarter bringing the score for Lyons to 11 points.
Morrissey 11, Dillon 8.
The Morrissey juniors following the example of their heavyweight team defeated Dillon 11 to 8 after an exciting four quarters of play. Mor-(Continued on Page 30)
Arnheimer was the leading point collector for St. Ed’s as he garnered nine points during the course of the game, but he was pressed hard by Matthews for the scoring honors. McCabe, Uprichard, and Christman were the high point men for Sorin as each managed to drop the leather through the hoop for a field goal.
Off Campus 28, Howard 7.
The high scoring Off-Campus machine appeared to be the class of Group II as it handed Howard a 28-7 defeat, Sunday afternoon. The Howard attack was powerless against Off-Campus, their scoring being confined to the 7 points of Pete Paskwietz.
Off-Campus held the lead from the start and kept the ball in Howard territory most of the game. Bachm led the scoring for Off-Campus with 5 points with Sockmeyer and Palmei* pressing him with 4 each.
Freshman 20, Brownson 6.
A greatly improved Freshman Hall team broke into the winning column with a decisive 20 to 6 victory over Brownson.
With Murphy and Pilney featuring, Freshman gained an early lead and held an advantage throughout. Murphy and Pilney gathered 11 points between them while Millner’s two field goals added four points more for Freshman.
Alumni 18, Carroll 15.
After trailing Carroll for the entire game, Alumni spurted in the last two minutes and managed to eke out an 18 to 15 victory in the most thrilling game of the afternoon. Playing their first game of the year, Alumni was kept in the game chiefly by the brilliant floor work of Ed Herold. Herold was easily the outstanding man on the floor and led the scoring with 12 points. He topped off a brilliant afternoon’s performance by sinking the winning basket • with a sensational pivot shot from the foul circle.
is ’’Call-Home” Time
i The "Economical 'I Noice of NLillions J
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY
Rabbits andRadishes
Babies andBouquets
Carrots and Cabbages all^om an
EMPTY
ILLUSION:
Right before your very eyes the man of magic draws rabbits, vegetables, flowers, fruits—even babies—all from an empty tub! What an astonishing fellow he is!
_2z± J'lLV. TO	.

EXPLANATION : «	M
The assorted rabbits, babies, carrots, cabbages, ribbons and other magical “props” are not created by magic. The tub has a false bottom that is conveniently displaced, and numberless wonderful things spring to life in the magician’s nimble fingers. They do literally “spring” because they are made to compress into the bottom of the tub, taking their natural shape as the magician lifts them out.
Source: "Tricks and Illusions’' by Will Goldston. E. P. Dutton & Co.
Copyright, 1933, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK
IT'S MOUE EUN TO J^NOW
Tricks are legitimate on the stage but not in business. Here’s one that has been used in cigarette advertising...the illusion that blending is everything in a cigarette.
explanation: Blending is important...but it makes a lot of difference what is blended.
Inferior tobaccos can be blended to cover up their humble origin. But your taste soon detects the trick.
The proper use of blending is to bring
out the full “round” flavor of mild, highgrade tobaccos. It’s the costliness of the tobaccos, as well as the blending, thatcounts.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent by others in the attempt to discover just how Camels are blended. The blend is important.
But all the while Camel spends millions more for choice tobaccos... to insure your enjoyment.
Light up a Camel. Relax, while the delicate blue smoke floats about you. Enjoy to the full the pleasure that comes from costlier tobaccos.
Keep Camels always handy...in the airtight, welded Humidor Pack.
_ NO TRICKS JUST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Leo Keating
By John D. Carbine
Leo Keating came to Notre Dame to play football. Rockne took one look at the diminutive Keating; said Rock, “Try basketball.”
And try basketball, Leo did. He easily made the freshman team and became a member of the varsity squad in his sophomore year. He has been a member of the varsity squad ever since. This year he seems to be headed for his first monogram. Leo deserves a monogram; for three years he has been a member of George . Keogan’s first squad—never a regular, but always a steady, cool-headed reserve.
And Rockne himself said, “the real strength of any team is its reserves.”
Leo is a son of the “world’s playground,” Atlantic City, New Jersey, where, according to Leo, “there is
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD" 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
never any snow on the boardwalk.” Every noon Leo listens to the Atlantic City String Ensemble on his two-station (WSBT and WFAM) radio
set; every noon the ensemble makes him homesick.
While at Atlantic City High school, Leo played football, basketball, baseball, and track. He was, for two successive years, chosen as a member of the All- New Jersey interscholastic basketball team.	.
But athletics is far from being Leo’s sole interest in life. He maintained a 90 average during the last semester and will graduate with a cum laude attached to his diploma. A resident and a native of Atlantic City, New Jersey, he is president of the Philadelphia club. That, in itself, is no mean accomplishment.
Liked The Infirmary
Leo says that his most pleasant month at Notre Dame was the one which he spent in the infirmary with Dan Hanley when Dan had scarlet fever. A rather strange statement which is somewhat ‘ cleared up by Leo’s grinning comment, “I wasn’t sick.”
According to Leo there are no feminine strings attached to him. ’ But this statement appears to be a bit dubious. The whereabouts of his senior pin is somewhat of a mystery.
And then there is that girl whom Leo met on the Toledo trip—and asked to the Senior Ball—and is still waiting for an answer from the said young lady of Toledo.
Leo does not go in for what he calls lighter diversions. He likes strenuous indoor sports, such as contract bridge. It is rumored that he and George Gru are the champion contract players of Walsh. During the summer vacation, he alternates between driving an ice wagon in his native city and working on a farm with Kingfish Leonard in Pedricktown. Of course, Leo is an excellent ’ swimmer. This is only natural since all natives of Atlantic City swim before their fifth birthday.
Leo lives with the smallest big men on the campus in one of the Walsh Hall suites consisting of one closet and two rooms. Sabby Addonizio and George Grue are his roommates and along with Laurie Vejar the quartet make up “the small big men.”
Tense Moment On Bench
Leo’s tensest moment was a unique one. “It came,” said Leo, “in the Army game last year. There were but four minutes left to play; we were ahead by 20 points. I was the only substitute left on the bench. It seemed that I was about to. get my first taste of varsity competition. But Coach Keogan would not take a chance of losing the game. The four minutes went by; I was still on the bench. Ah, the pity of it all!”
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 27)
rissey at no time had the game on ice; it was not until the final whistle had blown that they were able to relax.
The playing of the guards of both teams was the feature of the game, as they completely bottled up the forwards of each other’s team in such a manner that the only scoring done was from far out on the. floor or else at the foul circle. The score at the end of the first half was tied, 6 to 6.
Johns and Pogue of Morrissey were the high point men for their team with 4 points apiece, while Giragi and Hines with three points apiece were the leading scorers for Dillon.
St. Edward’s, 18, Sorin 11.
It was lucky for the Sorin team that, they were unable to hit the bas-(Continued -on Page 31)
February 17, 1933
Thirty-one
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Page 21)
evening he collected four baskets in his first four shots. Shoot more often, John.
The column is going to run another feature story in about two weeks now that the Handball Tournament is under full power. Coach Keogan and the author will pick an All-Opponent team this year. Never before, in basketball, has this been done on a large scale. This event will continue every year, and we hope that you men will like it.
Neither Penn nor Western Reserve, the two teams the Irish will meet on this trip, are easy marks. Penn is always tough on its own floor, and our past records with them shows that we never have won a game from them by more than one or two points.
Take a look at Western Reserve’s record this year and you can see just how good they are. Pitt is one of the teams they have knocked off. Butler and Wabash, two teams on the remainder of our schedule, are also on their victim list.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 30)
ket during the first half, for, as Quinn got the tipoff for Sorin, the entire senior hall took numerous shots at the basket, but it was the St. Ed’s basket that they were shooting at and not their own.
St. Edward’s was leading 18 to 4 with but three minutes to go, and it was then that the seniors began to drop in the points, but the rally was started too late, as the time elapsed, leaving them on the short end of an 18 to 11 count.
Baskets by Freemen, Montgomery, and Lenord gave the sophs a 10 to 1 lead at the end of the first half. Freeman of St. Ed’s was the high scorer of the game with 6 points but he was followed closely by Robinson of Sorin with five points.
Carroll 29, Alumni 11.
Carroll continued in the victory column by defeating Alumni 29 to 11. Led by Tobin and Clark, Carroll held a lead of 13 to 6 at the half and outplayed Alumni throughout the game. Tobin and Clark scored 8 points each while Harigan with 6 points was outstanding for Alumni.
Freshman 31, Brownson 14.
With Niggro doing the heavy scoring, Freshman Hall defeated Brownson 31 to 14. By scoring 7 field goals and a free throw Niggro outdid the combined efforts of the Brownsonites.
ILLINOIS TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 23)
the Blue and Gold with any Sent-mans, it will not be lacking in stars. Those, who witnessed the meet here last year will recall the performance of Woolsey, the great miler and cross country star, who has been clocked consistently around 4:17 in his specialty.
Among other dependables with which “Nick’s” men will have to deal are two pole vaulters, Lennington and Seely. The latter, only a sophomore, promises to be one of the leading vaulters in the country. He has cleared the bar at 13 feet 11 inches. Entyre has been turning in exceptional performances in the hurdles and will be a hard man to leave behind.
The squad making the trip to Urbana will be practically the same one that journeyed to Milwaukee to meet Marquette.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday! ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day. Week-end Rate 40 ROUND TRIP *	South Bend to CHICAGO Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night. See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information. EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR		MAGAZINES	PAPERS University Cafeteria and Soda Grill Daily Specials Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M. CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Aviation?
E. E. Wyman, Assistant to the President, Pan-American Airways System, says: "Aviation is sympathetic to the college graduate who has prepared himself. It demands, however, serious and thorough preparation: technical training, a natural aptitude for constant study of problems and conditions, and a natural enthusiasm for the tasks it develops.'
AVIATION requires a steady hand I*. for the pilot, a steady mind for the executive. And a good tobacco... like Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco... is mighty helpful in giving a man a steady hand, or a steady mind.
Only in Edgeworth will you find that indefinable distinctiveness that is brought about by a special blending of fine old burleys. That’s why leading colleges have chosen it as their favorite tobacco.*
Want to try before you buy? Just drop a line to Larus 6L Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for your free sample pack. You’ll enjoy that cooling smoke that is so different.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
On Down The Line
By Fred MacBeth=S=^
GLENN CUNNINGHAM, winner of the WANAMAKER MILE in the MILLROSE GAMES, has achieved his athletic ability despite serious physical obstacles ... at the age of eight he was so badly burned in a school fire that he was left without normal skin covering to protect his muscles . . . MISS GRACE LEWIS (Galloping Hill, N. J.) made a hole-in-one the first time she played golf . . . yachting is the costliest of all sports . . . a recent tabulation shows that 91 NOTRE DAME STARS OF OTHER YEARS ARE NOW ENGAGED IN COACHING.
There are several Indian princes in ENGLISH SCHOOLS ... the NAWAB OF PATUDI is in the running for a hockey “blue” at OXFORD ... the MAHARAJAH OF JAIPUR turns out regularly for the ROYAL MILITARY ACADEMY TEAM . . . and the young MAHARAJAH OF COOCH BEHAR is one of HARROW’S most promising cricketers ... the AMERICAN GAME OF BASKETBALL has become so popu- ' lar in EUROPE that there is a move-' ment under way to have it included in the program of the OLYMPIC GAMES . . . polo is an extremely hard-riding game in the ARGENTINE . . . they play seven periods, of eight minutes each, WITH NO INTERMISSION.
HENRY A. LEUSSING, aged 75, holder of the WORLD WEIGHT LIFTING RECORD, died recently in CINCINNATI, O. ... in 1880 LEUS-sing lifted 1,384% pounds for a RECORD THAT STILL STANDS . .. BILL BAKER, one-armed center on the WEBSTER JUNIOR COLLEGE football team of OGDEN, (Utah) was rated as the best blocker and tackler . in the junior college conference .... JEPTHA “EPPA” RIXEY, pitcher for the CINCINNATI REDS, has been in the major leagues 20 years, and has never been in the minors . . . speedboat relay racing is the newest thriller among sports at LONG BEACH, CALIF.
' ♦ - •
The game of billiards became popular in FRANCE in 1461... RALPH GREENLEAF, who was considered a wonder at billiards fifteen years ago, recently won his twelfth national pocket billiard title ... GREENLEAF is said to buy a new set of suspenders and garters before every major tour
nament . . . women’s play in golf during 1932 increased 15% over 1931, according to figures of the P. G. A. . . . MORRIS ARNOVICH, former athletic star at SUPERIOR (Wis.) TEACHER’S COLLEGE, is playing with six basketball teams in three states and holds down a “regular job” in between times . . . ARNOVICH plays with two teams from DULUTH (Minn.), two from SUPERIOR (Wis.), one from ASHLAND (Wis.), and one from WAKEFIELD (Mich.) ... he flips a coin when more than one of his teams is playing the same night.
PURDUE TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 24)
The summaries:
60-YD. DASH—Won by Dilling (ND) ; Nockles (ND), second; Huller (ND), third. Time, :06.3.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Popejoy (P) ; King (ND), second; Roberts (ND), third. Time, 4:26.4.
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards (ND) ; Jones (P), second; Carter (P), third. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel (ND) ; Freschi (ND), second; Vaughn (P), third. Distance. 44 feet, 3 inches.
6 3-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Sand-bach (P) ; Poredon (ND), second; Poland (P), third. Time, :07.8.
440-YD. DASH—Bowdren (ND) and McQueen (P) tied for first; MacBeth (ND), third. Time, :51.8.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Young (ND) ; Bowers (ND), second; Popejoy (P), third. Time, 9:54.4.	-
BROAD JUMP—Won by Gough (ND) ; Conley (ND) and Sandbach (P), tied for second. Distance, 22 feet, 7% inches.
880-YD. RUN—Won by Troy (ND) ; Roberts (ND), second; Sheils (ND), third. Time 2:03.	.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Jones (P), second; Hartman (P), third. Height, 6 feet, 2% inches.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Gilfoil, Bowdren, Gough,. MacBeth). Time, 3:32.7.
Bulletin Board Notice
Student Cruises
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent positions if . experienced, also summer crews for U. S. and foreign territory. For full details write — THE COLLEGIATE SCHOLARSHIP INSTITUTE—219 Republic Building, Miami, Fla.
■ Are There Any Cobwebs On Your Door?
* ■ o
I _	.	.
X	g" Mark Twain once told the story of the spider who
4 ►	decided to take up abode in a strange town. The
wise insect scanned the pages of the papers serving
*	that community, picked out a merchant whose name was
NOT represented there, spun a web across his door, and forever lived in peace.
» ... . £ We specialize in discouraging the homeseeking
spider. As soon as he sees your advertisement in the SCHOLASTIC he looks elsewhere for a place of rest. He realizes that over three thousand students who know you and your product will make your door an undesirable
I	foundation for a cobweb. '
MTT You’ll be surprised how cheaply we can furnish □I “spider insurance.” Just call 3*1121 for details.
THE SCHOLASTIC
University of Notre Dame
leople know it..
Chesterfields are Milder
THEY'RE MILDER
THEY TASTE BETTER
WHEN you ask a Chesterfield smoker why that’s his brand—he generally comes right out and says . . . “They're Milder!”
So we’re going to keep on doing everything we know how to keep them that way.
That’s, why we look for and buy the mildest and ripest tobaccos we can get. That’s why we age them in our warehouses till they’re mellow and sweet.
You can bank on this... every method known to science is used to make Chesterfield a milder, better-tasting cigarette that satisfies.
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.