The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
JANUARY 13 1933
6 o’clock means nothing
to telephone service!
Bell System service must go on all the time. Day and night, Sundays and holidays, it must handle with speed and accuracy not only the usual traffic but also the unexpected rush of calls.
To meet this obligation, Bell System men tackle problems of many kinds. At Bell Telephone Laboratories, scientists develop new kinds of apparatus. At Western Electric, engineers find ways to make telephones, switchboards and cable more and more reliable. In the telephone companies, traffic engineers devise improved operaring methods that make service faster, more accurate, more dependable.
Result: at noon or in the dead of night, the public reaches confidently for the telephone, knowing that Bell System service never stops.
BELL SYSTEM
TELEPHONE HOME ONE NIGHT EACH WEEK . . . LOWEST RATES AFTER EIGHT-THIRTY
January 13, 1933	.	One
You’ll go!
U p-up-up JUith the Up-Swing
If you give yourself a break by letting others see—that you advertise with the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
This publication gets around —to our 3000 students —to Bill’s Barber Shop and even to a meeting of the Metropolitan
Club of New York
Two
The Scholastic
Famed Irish Poet and Lecturer Visits Notre Dame
Mr. William Butler Yeats, Irish poet, senator, and winner of the Nobel prize in 1923, as he appeared on his visit here last Monday. Seated, left to right, are Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Mr. Yeats, and Professor Charles L. Phillips. Standing, Captain Allan Duncan, and Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University.	' _	'	j
January 13, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	bk I g	|^^k	11	B Entered as second-class
lished wcdcy at the UnIvers- I MA 1X1	A I 1 Wl A	I	A matter at Notre Dame. In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I I llv I iwrwl	Cl I I llw	l^^l Cid Cl C* diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	.	___	rr-	-st	ing at special rate of postage.
THE SCHOLASTIC, Publi- DlSCC QllClSl Semper VlClUTUS Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Section UOS, October 3, 1017. cations Offer, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1 S 6 5	authorized June 23, 1013.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-(J hief
James S. Kearns
Managing Editor
Associate Editors ■ F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ........Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN THOMAS PROCTOR JAMES BYRNE JOSEPH BUCCI......ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMIES A. HART JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS...............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff	Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ .......Sports	Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON
Features Staff
RAY WATERS..............Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.______Graduate Manager
J- ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager
RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager
HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
JANUARY 13, 1933
No. 12
SUMMARY
NEWS	.
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. Honored With
Presidency of American Catholic Philosophic Society.-. 5
Nation-wide Celebrities Will Participate in Civic Tes-~~~timonial Banquet Monday.................... 5
John J. Hoban Selected as Chairman of the 1933 Junior
Prom .....................................   6
Dean McCarthy Addresses Large Number of Commerce Men ..................................   7
Publication of “Alumnus” Threatened Because of Unpaid Dues ..................................  12
Professor Pollock Writes Philosophical Work on St.
Anselm ............................1........14
Celebrated Poet, William Butler Yeats, Addresses Full House in Washington Hall Monday on Subject of “Irish Renaissance” .........................  1^	t*
'	.	..	. FEATURES
Robert Flint interviewed for “Man About Campus”.8
Scholastic Readers Voice Their Opinions in “Voice of
The Campus” „j.....L.L.L.^.-...............   9	.
Nativity Crib in Church* Creates Much Attention.......15
Ability of Europe to Pay War Debt Probed by Walter Johnson ..........—.2.........  ;...—.........16
Local Entertainment Discussed in “Theatre Talk”.17
.	.	.	SPORTS	?.
Notre Dame breaks four game losing streak by beating
Michigan State 36 to 19.:...........  —.....20
Minnesota here Tuesday to renew ten year basketball . rivalry ....................... a.............20
Butler to meet Irish eagers here tomorrow.....21
Northwestern defeats Notre Dame 33-29 in second game .......................................      _.22
Ohio State 30, Notre Dame 24........1................23
Nick Connor begins a new series on Notre Dame Immortals, the first: Reverend John Farley, ’02.......24
Splinters from the Press Box.......................  25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Jan. 13.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; news, sports and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.;
Movie: Friday or Saturday (announcement on bulletin boards), “Bring ’Em Back Alive,” with Frank Buck.
SATURDAY, Jan. 14.—Basketball: Varsity vs. Butler; Concert: University Band, Gym, 8:00 p. m.; Last day for pre-registration in College of Arts and Letters for next semester; office hours are 8:30 to 11:30 and 1:00 to 4:30.
SUNDAY, Jan. 15.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.
MONDAY, Jan. 16.—Academy of Science meeting, Room 104, Science Hall; Testimonial banquet for football team, 7:00 p. m. in East Dining Hall.
TUESDAY, Jan. 17.—Basketball: Varsity vs. Minnesota; Concert: University Band, Gym. 8:00 p. m.; Patricians meeting, 7:45 p: m., Law Building; Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, 6:30 p. m., Music Hall.	-
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 18.—Engineer’s Club meeting, 8:00 p. m., Engineering Auditorium; Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
THURSDAY, Jan. 19.—Spectator’s meeting, 8:00 p. m.. Law Building.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
X HAT first morning after vacation! Red-rimmed eyes from trying to snatch a little sleep on chair car seats that must have been designed by a fiendish mind bent on destroying the natural beauty of the human body! Heads that valiantly tried to keep erect during the eight o’clock classes, and dusty desks that bristled with the responsibility of showing off a newly acquired photograph ! We go through it every year, and we gripe and we resolve to be a little saner the next year, and we do it all over again. Ho-hum ... Yea, had a swell time ... I mean the night after I wrecked the car . . . Don’t let me sleep through my eight. . .
V
(^ALMLY, in every-day black and white, a University bulletin announces the fact that semester examinations will begin on the twentysixth of January. This is not going to be a we-told-you-so lecture. The doctor doesn’t try to warn you after you’ve broken your leg. Take it from long years of experience—there is still time. Getting up on back duties is one remedy, creating a false illusion in the professor’s mind by doing perfect work from now on is another way. And then you might start to study. You don’t have to announce the fact to the whole hall; just lock the door and start. Beware of these sessions where “a bunch of the boys are going to get together and thrash this whole thing out!” The thrashing lasts for about half an hour, and during the next three they discuss everything from Ed Wynn to technocracy.
V
T ^ISTENING to the Victory March pounded out in double time by some jazz orchestra usually » leaves us cold, but we were glad to hear it once this Christmas. Two blocks from Chicago’s now-tinselled Gold Coast is Death Valley. In this section of the city can be found an example of every type of wretchedness, poverty and suffering that one could imagine. In the very center of Death
Valley stands Saint Dominic’s Catholic Church and school. We were given a chance to attend a Christmas dinner given for the children of the parish. After the turkey had caused several little shrunken stomachs to cry out in protest, the children sang. There was little hesitation on some of the words to Holy Night, but three hundred voices didn’t miss a beat from the first “Cheer, Cheer.” Some of these kids have never seen Jackson Park but they certainly know their Notre Dame.
V
J T was a thrill to every true Irish heart to listen to William Butler Yeats. We must confess that we, too, suffered under the illusion that Ireland was the romantic spot pictured in popular fiction. After listening to that brilliant, colorful, interesting characterization of some of Ireland’s famous men and women of letters and politics, we also changed our mental picture of a poet. Yeats spoke with quiet dignity; he gestured with easy grace and after watching him for an hour and a half, we decided that he was a perfect example of that which he decried, our romantic conception of a fine Irish gentleman and scholar.
V
E have an apology to make. Before the first basketball game we casually mentioned that the band would also be there. That remark was unjust and not at all flattering. They have since proved that they deserve a couple of columns. At all home games the men under Joe Casasanta have been the center of attraction. When men on the campus absent-mindedly whistle tunes that the band has introduced the night before, they must be going over. Not a little of the credit goes to Menard and Ryan for their excellent singing at the last few games. We’re sorry, and may we put in a request for “In A Persian Market.” at the next home game?
January IS, 1933
Five
FATHER MILTNER IS NEW PRESIDENT OF A.C.P. S.
Elected At Recent Philosophy Meet in Detroit
By Mitchell Tackley
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters and head of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame,
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C.
Heads Catholic Philosophers
was elected president of the American Catholic Philosophical Society at the annual meeting of that organization held in Detroit Dec. 28-29, 1932. Father Miltner served as vice-president of the society the preceding-year, and is succeeded by Rev. Augustine Walsh, O.S.B., of Washington, D. C.
U. of D. in Charge
Father Miltner, professor of Philosophy at the University, received his Ph.B degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1911; his Ph.D. degree at Gregorian University, Rome, Italy, 1915; and his S.T.D. degree from Laval University, Quebec, in 1917.
The meeting took place at the Sacred Heart Seminary in Detroit under the auspices of the University of Detroit. The general subject discussed at the convention was “New and Critical Realism.” In point of interest shown and general participation in discussion this meeting of the Philosophic Society was the most successful ever held.
A distinguished guest of the asso-
(Continued on Page 29)
Walter Donaldson, Noted Stage Personality, To
Assist in N. D. Operetta
Through the influence of a member of the faculty who is greatly interested in the efforts of the freshmen to produce their operetta, “The Vagabonds,” a man well known in musical circles for his various compositions has been secured to assist Professor Joseph J. Casasanta in the direction of the performance.
Everyone who has the slightest interest in music, or who has heard it discussed, is familiar with the name of Walter Donaldson. At present Mr. Donaldson of Chicago is managing the tour of the famous stage and screen star, Maurice Chevalier. He has promised to be present at the dress rehearsals and to devote enough time to the show to make it one of the best, of amateur attempts on the campus.
Scholarship to Catholic U.
Offered by K. C. Council
The attention of any interested members of the senior class who may be thinking of doing graduate work is called to the existing Knights of Columbus scholarships in the Graduate School of the Catholic University at Washington. Complete details concerning the scholarships may be obtained from the office of Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
It is deplorable to note the small number of students who in the past have taken advantage of scholarships offered for their betterment. Around the term “scholar” there seems to be encircled a forbidding halo at which the student looks askance. Why this notion is prevalent cannot be ascertained, but that it is the wrong attitude is acknowledged even by the students themselves.
Church Unity Octave to
Extend From Jan. 18 to 25
No public services will mark the Church Unity Octave, from January 18 to 25, according to Father O’Hara, Prefect of Religion. The eight days of prayer, which are to be observed privately, begin on the feast of St. Peter’s Chair in Rome and last until the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul, and are offered for the conversion of the world.
TESTIMONIAL BANQUET FOR TEAM ON MONDAY
Galaxy of Fine Speakers— and $1.50 Per Plate.
By Thomas Proctor
Football coaches, sports writers, politicians, a stage and screen star, an army officer, Notre Dame alumni, Reverend Fathers and students of Notre Dame, musicians, and a host of friends from Chicago and the surrounding vicinity will honor the University of Notre Dame football squad with the 13th annual civic testimonial dinner, Monday, January 16, at 7 o’clock in the East Wing of the Dining Hall.
Farley To Be Here
According to William J. Sheehan, general chairman for the banquet, the program of speaking and entertainment for the affair is nearing a satisfactory completion. At the present time James A. Farley, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, accompanied from New York by Frank Walker, treasurer of the same committee and Notre Dame alumnus, Eddie Dowling, famous stage and screen star whose son Jack is a sophomore in the Universitv, Arch Ward and Warren Brown, Sports Editors respectively of the Chicago Tribune and Herald-Examiner. Harry Kipke, Coach of Michigan University, Gus Dorais, alumnus well known for the Dorais-Rockne forward pass combination of past years, Mayor W. R. Hinkle of South Bend, and Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the Universitv, have definitely agreed to attend the annual banquet.
E. J. Meehan, president of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley states that invitations have been extended to Governor Paul V. McNutt of Indiana. Major Griffith, newly-elected president of the N. C. A. A., Coach Howard Jones of the University of Southern California, Edgar “Rip” Miller, coach of Navy, and Noble Kizer, coach of Purdue University.
This is probably the finest and most representative group of guests and speakers that has ever assembled to pay homage to the character and prowess of the Notre Dame athlete in all the twelve years of the event’s existence, says J. Arthur Haley, busi-(Oontinued on Page 12)
Six
The Scholastic
Hoban Is Named General Chairman of Junior Prom
DATE FEB’Y 24TH
Orchestra Not as Yet Selected; Dance Will be Held in Palais
Royale, 9:30 to 1:30.
By Mitchell Tackley
John J. Hoban, of East St. Louis, Ill., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been selected as chairman of the 1933 Prom announced
John Hoban
• Efforts are being made.
Joseph E. Condon, president of the Junior class this week. The class dance will be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom, South Bend, on Friday evening February 24.
General Chairman Hoban has announced to The Scholastic that the
complete lists of committee heads and committeemen will be made known next week. Hoban served last year on the committee on decorations for the Sophomore Cotillion. Active in football during his freshman and sophomore years he was coach of the Alumni Hall football squad for 1932.
Orchestras Considered
Orchestras being considered for the Prom include Hal Kemp and his orchestra of the Blackhawk Restaurant, Chicago, Jan Garber ard his orchestra of Detroit, and Bernie Cummins and his orchestra of Trianon fame, Chicago. As yet no definite selection has been made. .
Tickets for the 1933 Prom will be
Graduate Student is
Author of Sociology Text Book in Arabic
Aziz S. El-Araj, graduate student here, has just received word that a New York publisher has accepted his “Introduction to Sociology” for immediate publication. The book will be printed in Arabic, and is said to be the first complete work of this nature on sociology to appear in that language.
Certain portions of the book have already appeared in serial form in As-Sameer, a semi-monthly Arabic magazine with world-wide circulation. From all reports the writings in this magazine have been well received by the public.
Tn presenting this book to the public, the publisher states, “This book presents a fair and impartial bird’s eye view of the entire field of sociology.”
El-Araj is a native of Palestine, Jerusalem, and transferred to the University here from the Palestine Military College in his sophomore year. He received his A.B. degree here in June, 1932.
The book is published by the Elia D. Madey Co., New York.
The University of California has announced the discovery of an ancient statue in Mexico which is considered fairly good proof that a tribe of Indians lived on this continent simultaneously with mastodons.
The statue, found in the Arroyo Sonso, 25 miles southeast of Puerto Mexico, by James P. Fox, a geologist has a trunk, or proboscis and ears like an elephant’s.
five dollars each. The question of favors is still pending. The committees selected will also work out a suitable theme for the dance that will be used throughout in the decorations and general arrangements.
The dance is scheduled to begin at 9:30 and continue until 1:30. An effort is being made to secure 2:30 permissions for all students attending the affair.
HRUBY GIVES TALK TO WRANGLERS ON MONEY
Proposes Plan for Scrip Issue	*
For Municipalities.	'
At the first meeting of the Wranglers club since the Christmas vacation Louis Hruby in a neatly pointed talk upon the “Issuance of Scrip Money” proposed a method whereby the greater part of our present economic stress might be lightened.
Outlines Davis Plan
Hruby outlined the plan of ex-Governor Davis of Ohio, whereby scrip money would be issued in dollar denominations by the city and county governments. On the back of the scrip dollar there is a space reserved for 36 stamps at three cents each, which gives the scrip redeemable qualities. The stamps amount to $1.08, a dollar of which is given to the bearer as the face value of each scrip. The eight cents is returned to the authorities to cover the cost of printing and issuing-the scrip.
When this plan is put into effect it was stated that it would immediately “act as an automatic stimulus to business and a powerful aid to the restoration of confidence and economic stability.” When the speaker had finished many of the members present arose and expressed their views upon the proposed plan.
Plan Endorsed
Most of the members endorsed the plan as being practicable, but that it met a great obstacle in the matter of acceptability. In the informal round-the-table discussion that followed the theory of the stabilized dollar with a variable gold ratio was advanced as possessing far less theoretical tendencies.
Tentative plans for a banquet at the end of the semester were discussed. Art Korzeneski was appointed chairman in charge of the banquet. Plans for the enrollment of new members were also discussed.
Christmas Once Banned.
In England, in the course of the Puritan • ascendancy, Christmas was forbidden by Act of Parliament in 1644; the day was to be a fast and a market day; shops were compelled to be opened.
January 13, 1933
Seven
NEW HOLY YEAR BEGINS APRIL 2, POPE DECREES
Holy Father Lists Joys And Sorrows of 1932
A special holy year to begin April .	2 (Passion Sunday) was proclaimed
by the Holy Father, Pius XI, during . the Christmas holidays.
The occasion was a Consistory of Cardinals and the Papal Court to give their Christmas greetings to the Pope. In his reply to them, the Holy Father set aside the period from April 2, 1933 to April 2, 1934, as a special holy year commemorating the ‘	1900th anniversary of the Passion and
Death of Christ.
Not Sure Of Dates
The Pope declared, “We are not sure whether the anniversary should fall in 1933 or 1934 . . . Uncertainty ‘ takes away nothing from the greatness of the infinite number of benefits we have received ... If the men of 2033 find more certain calculations for fixing the exact date they will know how to do their duty as we do ours now ... It will be of no great ‘ benefit, especially as the world will not hear only about conflicts, dis’ armaments, reparations, debts, debt postponements, defaults, economic and financial crisis and individual and social miseries . . . but instead those of high spirituality and strong appeal to life and the interests of the souls.”
i	Sorrows: Mexico, Russia, Spain
‘	Among his Christmas wishes for
j	the world were the Pope’s prayers
;	for “peace, tranquillity, mutual con's	fidence, friendly relations, greater asi	sistance wherever are the greatest
j	needs, sufficient remunerative work
'	and less unfavorable and uncertain
1	general conditions of life.”
;	Following the usual custom the
j Holy Father enumerated some of the joys and sorrows he has had during > the past year. Among the many joys listed were the spread of missions, Catholic Action and the Eucharistic Congress. In his sorrows were to be found church difficulties in Mexico, Spain, and Russia and economic distress throughout the world.
It is of much greater importance that the books one reads in early life should be right rather than that they should be clever.—Ruskin.
“Charley’s Aunt" to be
Staged January 21, 22
Howard Hall Victor Over Dillonites In Interhall Debating
The final result of interhall debating as sponsored by the Wranglers was determined shortly before the Christmas vacation when the two finalist teams, Howard and Dillon presented their arguments for and against war debt cancellation before the student body of St. Mary’s College.
Howard, the affirmative team, was awarded the decision by the judges, and was given the Victor Lemmer Trophy, symbolic of the University debating championship for the schoolyear of 1932-33.
New French Course Is
Offered Upper Classmen
A course on “Reading In Technical French” will be offered during the second semester, according to Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters. This course aims to familiarize students with scientific treatises in their respective fields, and emphasis is placed on the technique of thought comprehension rather than on pronunciation and translation.
Enrollment is open to juniors, seniors and graduate students in the Colleges of Arts, Science, and Engineering. The course will be taught by Mr. Langwell at an hour to be arranged later.
Band Continues Concerts
During Basketball Games
The University Band under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa will continue their concerts at the basketball games. Tomorrow evening, the organization will present musical selections before, after, and during the recess period of the game.
Featured on the program for tomorrow evening will be soloists George Menard and John Ryan. The band has also been engaged to play for the Civic Testimonial Football dinner Monday evening in the University dining halls.
CONTINUE DRILLS
Three Act Comedy of English ' College Life to be Given Within Ten Days.
“Charley’s Aunt,” a light, fast comedy of English college life, is to be presented by the University Players Saturday and Sunday, January 21 and 22, at eight o’clock in Washing-
John Finneran
Will have to say ‘’‘Mama.”
ton Hall. Professor Frank Kelly, Department of Speech, the man mainly responsible for the success of last season’s offering, “Gold In The Hills,” has selected and directed the cast of “Charley’s Aunt,” which promises a good two hours of wholesome entertainment with as much hilarity as can be packed into a three-act comedy.
Wanted: A Chaperon
The theme of the story is woven about a group of young men who are faced with the problem of obtaining a suitable chaperon for one of their dances. The facetious way in which they attempt a solution of their problem, the doubtful position in which the characters later find themselves, and the pleasing manner in which the climax is reached, are treats that await the opening curtain.
Professor Casasanta, Department of Music, has announced that a new Jugglers’ orchestra will make its bow on the opening night of the play.
(Continued on Page 10)

Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
By Louis Giragi
As we were nearing 221 Walsh, we could hear that staccato which flows through the open transom of every English major student’s room. We found Bob Flint, seated on a pillow supported by a portable typewriter case, tapping notes on his small, black Corona, and waited for him to dismount before the visit actually began.
de Valera Man
Reared in Grove City, Pennsylvania, in the heart of the Alleghenies, Bob went to the Grove City High School where he was class orator of his graduating class. During three and a half years in high school, Bob went to five different institutions in three different states. He attended tw'o in North Dakota, two in South Dakota, and last,, but not least, his own in Grove City. He just mentioned Columbus Academy in Sioux City, South Dakota, because he liked it the best.
Bob is the president of the Patricians, the classical association of the campus, the scene of many discussions of Greek and Latin culture— and Bob knows his Latin. He is in full sympathy for all Irish affairs, and he now has special interests in the Irish Club to make it bigger and better than ever. A great admirer of Earn on de Valera, his desk is full of newspaper clippings of the Irish politician. Bob is also a member of the Spectators Club, and has one of those cute little tankards that looks as if no one has even shaved out of them.
Reading Is Mixed
Naturally, he does much reading, and he likes to talk about it. J. B. Priestly is his favorite author, and the Life of Johnson is his favorite book. Bob is always quoting Dr. Johnson. His favorite verse writers are Mrs. Browning, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Nicholas Vachel Lindsay, and Austin Dobson. At the time of the interview, he was deeply interested in Carroll’s “Through the Looking Glass,” and even discussed a few passages with us, concluding that the book arouses a field of research, and the study of epistemology and other philosophical sciences. So much for that. His favorite periodicals are the Commonweal and the New Yorker. He reads the New York Times every Monday morning — and occasionally
the Bridgeport Herald for recreation.
At present, Bob is working on his thesis, “Victorian Nonsense Literature,” and he reports that he is
Robert Flint
Has a cute little tankard.
having a w’onderful time with it. He has not made any plans for the future, after receiving his degree; but he said that he would like to take graduate work in English—merely to enjoy himself.
Enjoys Still Life
Bob’s favorite composer is Ravel, and he invited us to listen to Ravel’s “Bolero” on Jim Shea’s phonograph. The record was chipped and had to be started in the middle. Bob is one of the few people on the campus who enjoys still life. He is a bridge addict, and he likes chess. He is so consicentious to show his friends howT to play chess that in. the end they win from him. His best friends say that he is pretty good at climbing trees. There are some stained glass windows, the best Connie work, in the Presbyterian church in Niles, and Bob Flint is one of the very few that know about it. Bob spends his summer vacations in Grove City, attending summer school at the Grove City College.
And so we left Flint to his bridge and his Bolero, his pawns and his nonsense literature, feeling that.out of all the fellows we have met on the campus it is ironical that Bob should be the one to tackle something nonsensical.
FATHER O’DONNELL TALKS AT “SCHOLASTIC” MEET
Editorial Rooms are Dedicated Before Vacation.
Approximately 50 people attended '5 the house-warming of The Scholas- ; tic’s new editorial quarters in the Ave Maria Building immediately before the Christmas recess. The celebration, held in the evening, had as its guests of honor; the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, the Reverend Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., Chairman of the Board of Publications, the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., member of the Board of publications, Joseph A. McCabe, editor-in-chief of the Juggler, Charles E. Sheedy, editor-in-chief of Scrip, and Arthur Sandusky, editorin-chief of the Dome.
Praises Publications
Following sandwiches, coffee and dessert, The Funny Fellow, acting as an impromptu master of ceremonies, introduced the speakers of the evening, who included most of the individuals mentioned above.
In his talk, Father O’Donnell stated how well satisfied he is with the work of the four major University publications and attached considerable importance to the fact that they are being acknowledged and praised by outsiders as well.
At Last! The Explanation Of That Ring ’Round Moon
“G’wan, that’s the shadow of the earth reflecting on the clouds, when the moon is shining.”
Speculation ran high several nights ago when some observant person happened to notice the huge brown ring that encircled the moon. Consultations similar to the one expressed -were heard on the campus.
The truth of the matter was simply this: The moon’s rays descend in a spreading fashion from the planet’s outer edge, and a mist, probably sev-eraLmiles up, was sufficiently thick to catch that reflection, similar to a motion picture screen.
Those who were fortunate enough to have -witnessed it, sawr one of the largest circles ever formed in this manner.	. .
January 13, 1933
Nine
SCHOLASTIC TO SPONSOR BOXING SHOW IN MARCH
Meeting Monday Noon For All Tournament Candidates.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
By Howard Waldron
In continuance of its policy of last year, The Scholastic will again sponsor, sometime in early March, another Boxing Show in which champions of the University in the established weights will be crowned. Entire proceeds from the exhibition will be turned over to the Bengal Mission Fund.
A more detailed program of the show will be given within the next few weeks. Preliminary plans will take the shape of a meeting of all aspirants for University boxing titles to be held in the Law Auditorium, Monday, Jan. 16, at 12:30 p. m. The general training procedure and the process of eliminating competitors will be outlined at that time by Len Dunn, former University light-heavyweight champion, who will be the Boxing Director of the show.
Freshmen Are Eligible
Freshmen as well as upper classmen are eligible to enter the competition. The bouts will be arranged between men of equal ability and weight, so that no contestant need fear that he will be hopelessly outclassed. There will be seven weight divisions in the established classes used in amateur and professional bouts: 118 pound class, 126, 135, 147, 160, 175, and the heavyweight. No weight advantage will be much greater than three pounds in any division except the heavyweight, and these men will be matched as equally as possible.
The Show is being held in March to give the contestants sufficient chance to train after the final examinations are over.
San Francisco—The public in this state has been asked by Richard W. Barrett, chairman of the Stanford University Board of Athletic Control, to help the university pick a successor to Glen S. (Pop) Warner as head ' football coach.
Warner will leave Stanford after coaching here for many years to become head football coach at Temple University in Philadelphia.
BALCONY BREEDING
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
It is quite apparent that an audience of Notre Dame students is, on the whole, very well bred.. No matter what the program in Washington Hall, we can almost be sure that the students, even though they may not fully approve of the proceedings, will not “boo,” or get up en masse to chase the performers off the stage. This shows admirable restraint, especially so when you consider how often baseball umpires are greeted with stray Coca-Cola and Orange Crush bottles. The students have evidently acquired that poise and refinement that comes with a college education.
But occasionally some trifling incident occurs that contrasts disagreeably with the dignity we generally associate with Notre Dame students. Such an incident took place last Monday night during the lecture given by William Butler Yeats. Toward the end of the lecture some of our choice specimens evidently decided that they had imbibed enough culture for that evening, so they pushed and jostled their way to the aisles, and then noisily stamped out.
Now the first thought that comes to one’s mind on such an occasion is that you have just seen an example of very poor breeding, and that it would be much better for those fellows to fall asleep in their seats rather than to get up and walk out. But such a judgment is very likely unfair to those students. They had a good knowledge of the main facts of the Irish Renaissance before coming to Washington Hall that night, they had no doubt been paying very close attention to the lecture, and they could just about tell how Mr. Yeats would end his talk. Then, too, they probably intended to go to the Library on Tuesday and take out some of Mr. Yeats’ works to peruse in the monastic seclusion of their cells. So the reasonable conclusion is that this noisy exit was entirely justifiable,
and any unfavorable comments.on it are entirely out of place.
M. H. R.
OR SOMETHING
Editor of the Scholastic
Dear Sir:
The Commerce Building is unquestionably one of the truly choice edifices on the campus but it has one outstanding and unforgivable shortcoming: the water in its drinking fountains is never cold. We could even overlook the fact that you’ve almost got to take your hat and coat off to get at the stream if we weren’t always thirsty when we finished. Please, please, can’t we get a Kelvin-ator, a hand pump or something?
J. L.
ESCALATORS?
Dear Editor:
The other night I walked out of the Library and fell down the first flight of steps. My eyes are good, I wasn’t dreaming, and it wasn’t slippery. The point is the Library is lighted poorly on the outside particularly around closing hours — the very time when most people are leaving.
A. B. C.
Freshmen To Be Admitted At Beginning of Semester
According to information received from University officials the old regulation which did not allow high school graduates to begin their college work in February has been changed.
Now a student who happens to finish high school at the end of January will no longer have to wait until September to be enrolled. Heretofore only transfer students from other colleges vrere admitted for second semester work.
Already twenty-one students havr signified their intentions of entering at the end of this month. More than half this number will be freshmen.
Ten
The Scholastic
dean McCarthy speaks
TO COMMERCE STUDENTS
Two Hundred Are Present At Meeting Tuesday.
At a Commerce Forum meeting held Tuesday evening, Dean James E. McCarthy addressed two hundred students of the College of Commerce. He spoke on the various steps to take in obtaining a position.
“Love Your Job”
The first and most important step si to find the thing that you like to do best, the one which you feel you can do better than anyone else. According to experts in the field 80% of the men in business are misplaced. Your job must not become a task for you, for if it does you will not advance. You must love your job, and you can do this only if you are doing something you like to do above all things.
The second point concerned the employer. In regard to this the Dean said, “One should be as selective of his employer, as he is of you.” The Dean did not believe that he was setting up a barrier in advancing this theory, as there are many leading firms in all branches of business.
Imagination Needed
In his third point the Dean warned against being traditionalists. The routine work is not the thing that counts, but the imagination that will contribute to the success of the business. If you can help your employer make more money there will be a place for you in business, but if you cannot give your employer any ideas as to how he can better his business then you become one of the routine workers—and there are too many of them.
The Dean then spoke on the methods of establishing contact with the employers; he carried on a typical interview, and gave suggestions in regard to the letter of application.
The next meeting of the Commerce Forum will be held next Tuesday evening, Jan. 17 at 8 p. m. in the Lau Auditorium. The speaker will be Professor Payton of the College of Commerce.
There seems to be reverence only for pleasure and wealth.—Cardinal
Hayes.	•
SPEAKER
Dean James E. McCarthy “Be as selective of your employer as he- is of you”
“CHARLEY’S AUNT”
(Continued from Paste 7)
Tighe Woods will portray Sir Francis Chesney; Roger Beirne, Stephen Spittigue; John Finneran, Jack Spit-tigue; George Allingham, Charles Wykeham; David Powers, Lord Fancourt Babberly (Charley’s Aunt); Arthur Neumann, Brassett.
The, feminine leads will be taken by: Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, Donna Lucia D’Alluardarez; Miss Charlotte Mourer, Kitty Verdun; Dorothy Gustafson, Aimee Spittigue; Mary Jane Pate, Ella Delahay.
Notice!
The membership committee of the Wranglers Society announces that applications for membership will be accepted during the week of January 15th.
Students must submit a written application, stating their forensic qualifications. Members of the varsity debating team and men who participated in interhall debate are eligible. Only a very limited number will be admitted to the society in the second semester.
Address all communications to John Hayes, 348 Alumni Hall, chairman of the membership committee.
PLAN MUSIC PROGRAMS IN WASHINGTON HALL
Profs. Seidel and Groom and Piano Ensemble to Play.
Two musical programs will be heard in Washington Hall in the near future. One will be a joint concert program of piano and violin music by Professor Willard L. Groom and Professor Richard H. Seidel of the Department of Music. The program will include music of Brahm’s to observe the centenary of his birth. “The Greek Sonata in G Major,” which is the most popular of the Greek sonatas will also be part of the program
The other concert will be an ensemble program of the Piano students in the school of music. Those to take part in this recital have not yea been selected. The program will include music by Beethoven, Bach, Mozart, DeBussy, Saint-Saens, Pirani, Bizet, and Chominade.
The dates for these programs have not been set but will probably be during the first part of February.
Father Francis Cavanaugh Given Honorary Fellowship
Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at present professor of Sociology in the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., has been given an honorary fellowship by the Minnesota University. He was also recently appointed on the committee of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, and will in all probability appear on the program of their fall meeting.
Father Cavanaugh taught at Notre Dame for several years as a professor of sociology. An article written by Father Cavanaugh entitled “Why A Catholic Sociology?” will appear soon in an issue of the Commonweal. His old associates at Notre Dame extend to him their best wishes and hearty congratulations.	'
Apparently man is capable of adjusting himself to almost anything. I have seen millions of my fellow citizens living and apparently enjoying themselves in the City of New York. —Prof. G. S. Counts of Columbia U.
Every failure has in it the germ of a great success.
January 13,1933
Eleven
FINAL TRYOUTS HELD FOR DEBATING SQUAD
Twelve Men Selected to Argue Revenue Subject.
“The worst is yet to come,” says Professor William Coyne, director of debating, who has just completed the final round of tryouts for Varsity Debate on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons and evenings of this past week. Mr. Coyne is now faced with the task of whipping into shape a squad of twelve men in preparation for this year’s schedule on the question: “Resolved, that at least 50% of state and local revenues should be derived from some source other than a tax on tangible prop- • erty.”	'
No Schedule Yet
The twelve men chosen to represent the University of Notre Dame in the field of debate are, William Kirby, Hugh Fitzgerald, Joseph Becek, James Boyle, Max Baer, John Heywood, Roger Brennan, Robert Schmel-Izle, Robert Connors, Thomas O’Meara, Gene Bliss, and Thomas Proctor. These men were chosen from a group of some twenty-eight applicants after a comprehensive and extended period of tryouts.
Mr. Coyne was assisted in his selections by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Mr. Robert Riordan, Father Fogerty, Professors Flatley, Buckley, Campbell, Roney, and Apodaca.
As yet no definite debating schedule has been drawn up, according to Mr. Coyne.
Rhode Island Club Holds Smoker in Dining Hall
Wednesday evening the members of the Rhode Island club met in the faculty dining room to celebrate the success of their initial Christmas Reception. Father Dolan, C.S.C., and Fathers Flood and Duffy, C.S.C., of the Mission House were the guests of honor.
Father Dolan spoke words of commendation to the members on the success they enjoy. In way of entertainment, two exhibitional bouts were staged, with Kitty Gorman as guest referee. The celebration was completed by refreshments.
Andrew J. McMahon is president of the club.
DELEGATE
The Reverend James Stack, C.S.C., who represented the University at a National Historical meeting.
All candidates for “The Scholastic’s” boxing tournament which will sponsor bouts in all the recognized weights will meet in the Law School Auditorium, Monday, January 16, at 12:30 p. m. Story on page nine.
Star of Bethlehem and Nativity Crib in Church Depict Story of First Christmas
The guiding star of Bethelehem shines again in the Church of the Sacred Heart. The Crib, symbolic of the Nativity, has been erected.
Appropriately situated in the recess occupied by the Saint Joseph altar, the position somewhat naturally implies the patronage and protection offered by the foster-father. Brother Boniface, C.S.C. who constructed this reproduction of the scene marking the birth of Jesus Christ, has employed existing conditions to better the appearance of the Crib this year. He . made use of the picture that forms the background of the altar, covering the lower portion by the artistic construction of a precipice, allowing only a group of angels to be seen, seemingly hovering over the birth-place of the Saviour of the world.
Flanking each side of the stable are several fir trees which add a bit of life that immeasurably aids in removing some of the stiffness that
PLANS NEARLY COMPLETE FOR K.C. BALL, JAN. 20TH
Tickets on Sale in All Halls, Three Dollars.
Arrangements for the Knights of Columbus Ball to be staged next Friday evening in the Palais Royale Ballroom have been finished, according to Chairman John Cary.
Ace Brigode To Play
As has been stated, Ace Brigode and his Virginians will be the orchestra. Tickets, three dollars a couple, may be obtained from the following men: St. Edward’s, Ray Ger-end; Brownson and Carroll, Sam West; Corby, Don Lusardi; Sorin, Ray Naber; Walsh, Larry Sexton, chairman; Alumni, William Murphy; Dillon, William Coyne; Badin, Stewart Osborne; Howard, Patrick Flannery; Morrissey, James Lannon; Lyons, James Quinlan; Off-Campus. Eugene Barnhart.
Favors may be obtained from the chairman of the committee, Augie Von Boecklen, Alumni Hall.
The dance will begin at 8:30 and continue to 12:00.
would be apparent in the figures representing characters actually present at the birth of the Son of God.
The realistic appearance of the rocks and niches was secured by crumpling large sheets of coarse linen which have been treated with a gray paint. Small bits of the material tightly folded, lie about the entrance of the stable, serving as an excellent imitation of boulders.
The only unconventional arrangement of the interior of the stable is afforded by the presence of two angels, both holding flaming torches. Oddly enough, electricity supplies the means of illumination, marking the only untilization of a modem element.
Obviously the students have been attracted to the Crib more than ever this year, for one might at any time of the day find several kneeling in prayer on the prie-dieus that have been provided.
Ticelve
The Scholastic
FIRST ’33 “ALUMNUS” MAY BE THE LAST-ARMSTRONG
Financial Condition Acute As Result of Unpaid Dues.
By James Byrne
The Alumnus, official organ of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, recently made its first and possibly its last appearance of the year 1933. Mr. James E. Armstrong, ’25, editor, poignantly laments the deplorable condition of the Association finances. In his editorial “Uncertainty,” Mr. Armstrong informs the alumni that the limited resources of the Alumni Association have caused a drastic curtailment of the Orir^nization’s activities. “It is uncertain,” says the Editor, “whether this is the fourth issue of the Alumnus series for the current year — or whether it is the last issue . . . What causes the uncertainty? You whose dues are not paid.”
Encyclicals Lauded
This issue of the Alumnus contains the second of a series of addresses that were delivered at the convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation held at Notre Dame. November 20. “An Approach to The Encyclicals on International Relationships,” by James Fitzgerald, provides those responsible for economic reform with something to think about. Mr. Fitzgerald advises the study and fearless application of the principles embodied in the Encyclicals of Pope Leo Xfflff and Pius XI.
An interesting letter from an alumnus of ’23 suggests and outlines a definite plan by which the universities might aid the economic condition of graduates. Those to whom the letter was submitted sympathizes with its author, but are of the opinion his plan calls for a solution of the depression, a large order for any university.
Father O’Hara’s Religious Bulletin of December 20, a summary and evaluation of the resolutions adopted by the Texas State Senate confirming the principles of Catholic education, serves as the theme for the religious p?ge.
We are only now extending to all ■classes the facilities for good living which the wealthier Cretans had 3000 years ago.—Sir Banister Fletcher.
N. D. Economic Teachers Attend Cincinnati Conference
Mr. Louis F. Buckley, Mr. L. Thomas Flatley, and Mr. J. Donald Watson, members of the faculty in the Department of Economics and College of Commerce, attended a group of annual meetings of national associations which were held in Cincinnati on December 28, 29 and 30.
This year Cincinnati was the convention center for a group of twelve associations which conducted a joint program of lectures and discussions of interest to university instructors and others. The more important associations of this group were the American Economic Association, American Statistical Association, and American Sociological Society. The American Association of University Instructors in Accounting and the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business were also of interest to the members of the Notre Dame faculty present.
Varied Discussions
A whole gamut of topics was up for review: monopoly in the United States, unemployment, insurance, stabilization of industries, American economic thought, federal reserve policy, tariff, real estate speculation, national income, trade unionism, courses in accounting, and many detailed topics.
Among the nationally known speakers who read papers on these various topics were Chester W. Wright, University of Chicago; Harry W. Laidler, League for Industrial Democracy; Irving Fisher, American Statistical Association; Richard S. Merrian, Harvard University; Ernest M. Fisher, University of Michigan; Phillip G. Wright, Brookings Institution; James Harvery Rogers, Yale University; N. A. Weston, University of Illinois; and E. M. Burns, Columbia University.
Villagers Hear Reporter
At a dinner held January 9th in the Indiana Club rooms in the Citizens Bank Building, members of the Notre Dame Villagers heard Everett Hoiles, political reporter of the South Bend Tribune discuss Indiana state politics. His subject was “The Ins of the State Legislature,” Mr. Hollis explained many hitherto little known facts governing the ramifications of .the Indiana State Legislature. He was introduced by James Ash, president of the Villagers.
JOHN MILLER ADDED TO ARCHITECTURE FACULTY
New Teacher Will Assume Duties on Feb. 1.
The Department of Architecture at < Notre Dame has the addition of John Edward Miller of Cleveland to its i faculty. Mr. Miller, who has had considerable experience in the field of architecture, will assume his duties ' at the beginning of the second semester in February.
Mr. Miller is a native of Cleveland. He is a graduate of Glenville High School and was awarded • his Bachelor of Science degree at Catholic University of America, in 1928. He had experience as a teacher during his last two years at that school.
In Cleveland, Mr. Miller has given instruction in architecture at the Cleveland School of Architecture, a part of Western Reserve University, for half a year in 1931. He was also connected with the firm, Walker and Weeks, architects for the Cleveland Municipal Stadium.
Mr. Miller will reside in Lyons Hall.
TESTIMONIAL
(Continued from Page 5) =================================	i
ness manager of athletics.
Jimmie Crowley, better known as “Sleepy” Crowley of Four Horsemen fame has consented to serve in the capacity of toastmaster for the evening. Crowley is well known as a man who can handle cleverly and hu- c morously this difficult task. Eddie Dowling will open the entertainment, which will progress onward through the varied list of speakers, and the music by the Notre Dame Glee club and the Notre Dame band, under the direction of Prof. Casasanta. Harry a Kipke will be honored as the winner of the Four Horsemen Football Trophy which is to be presented to him on the Saturday night preceding the banquet. James A. Farley will be the main speaker and guest of honor of the evening.	3
It is to be expected that a Irage group of students will attend the testimonial dinner in honor of their schoolmates. Tickets -have been reduced in price from $3.00 to $1.50, so that more students may have the opportunity of hearing the splendid • talks and entertainments which the program will’ afford; Reservations may be made at the University Athletic Office.
January 13,1933
Thirteen
NATION’S SPORT WRITERS
ACCLAIM 1932 “REVIEW”
Members of Faculty Back After Holiday Illnesses
FATHERS STACK, BUTLER ATTEND HISTORY MEET
“Highspot of Collegiate J ournalism”—Husing.
“Notre Dame’s Football Review reaches the high spot of college journalism. It is a swell job, swelle-gantly done.” This brief and characteristic note of congratulation from
Joseph Petritz
Best-.. Finest .. Fairest.. Swellegant
Ted Husing, famed sports announcer, is just one of numerous messages received by Joseph S. Petritz, editor-in-chief of the annual football publication which made its debut shortly after the Christmas holidays.
From Braven Dyer, special writer for the Los Angeles Times, comes this message, “The Football Review is one of the finest and fairest football magazines I have ever seen.”
Nation-wide Interest
Not only does Notre Dame have the distinction of being the only school in the country to print an official football post-season review, but these representative statements demonstrate nation-wide interest in this excellent publication. This year’s Revieiv shows great variety, for its contributions were drawn from the best of the country’s sports’ writers as well as from those prominent in various fields on the campus.
The Review opens with a dedication to Coach Heartley W. Anderson of Notre .Dame, stressing his splendid record in the service of the men of this University. Following this are fit tributes to Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre
We are glad to welcome several members of the faculty on their return to the campus after their illness. With us again after operations are Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., Rector of Dillon Hall, who was in Holy Cross Hospital, Cairo, Illinois; Reverend Dominic Cannon, C.S.C., of the department of Physics, and Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., head of the Department of English, who were in Columbus Memorial Hospital, Chicago.
Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C.. Dean of Science, had an operation for appendicitis on Monday in St. Joseph’s Hospital. We wish him a speedy recovery.
On the hospital discharge list are Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., and Professoi' Raymond Pence, who were ill during the Christmas vacation. Professor William H. Downey returned to school Monday, January 9 after being away from the campus since November. An infection in his leg confined him to his bed during this time.
Dame, Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics, and Paul A. Host, football captain of 1932.
Turning the pages one finds articles and stories by Grantland Rice, Arch Ward. Warren Brown, Christy Walsh, Ted Husing, and others, special cartoons by Feg Murray, Metropolitan News, and Werner Laufer, NEA Service artists, articles and cartoons contributed by campus journalists and artists, football records and schedules, and a host of action pictures, a complete summary of Irish football history for 1932.
A limited supply of the Review will remain on sale to students for the special price of one dollar, the regular price for the publication being two dollars. Copies are on sale in the candy store and in the cafeteria.
This year’s Football Reviezv was edited by Joseph S. Petritz, assisted by Edmund Britz, Mike Koken, Joe Kurth, Bill Pierce, and Emmett Murphy. The Review has been published annually since 1924.
A new hunt to find the long-lost grave of Pocahontas, heroine in the life of Captain John Smith, early American explorer, has failed in England, after a man had told authorities he knew where the grave was.
Notre Dame is Represented at Convention.
Reverend James J. Stack, C.S.C., A. M., and Reverend Thomas F. Butler, C.S.C., A. B., two professors of the Notre Dame History Department, attended an historical society convention in Toronto, Canada, during the holidays. This convention was a joint meeting of the Catholic Historical Society and the American Historical Society. It was held at the University of Toronto on December 27, 28, and 29.
At the convention, the Catholic Historical Society discussed chiefly the participation of Catholics in the American Revolution. They described the heroic actions of some of the Catholics who are in part responsible for the freedom of this country. The American Historical Society presented several papers dealing with American diplomatic history. These papers concerned many little known or unknown facts about the deeds of American diplomats and they shed new light on mooted questions.
Prof. Leen Pursuing Work at Columbia University
William Leen, a professor of Philosophy at the University for five years, writes that he is now pursuing graduate work at Columbia University in New York. Prof. Leen is majoring in the field of Social Philosophy with a minor in Sociology.
In P«rt the professor writes: “I enjoy being back in the harness of a student and apart from an occasional conflict of ideas, everything so far is going well. The men are good, the library is excellent, and I like mj courses.”
Professor Leen’s many friends at the University will join in wishing him the highest success in the work he is doing.
A survey of the tastes of .the sen- * ior class at Hunter College reveals that on the whole the members of the class are conservative, prefer classical poetry, like to read better than to do anything else, plan mostly to go into teaching, medicine, law, radio broadcasting and library and museum work, and have Heywood Broun as their favorite columnist.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
W, B. Yeats Lectures Here On The Irish Renaissance
PROF. POLLOCK AUTHOR OF PHILOSOPHY BOOK
“Some day we may have a great literature; perhaps here and there we have it already;” so spoke William Butler Yeats, famed Irish poet, essayist, and dramatist, to a houseful
of Notre Dame students and faculty members in Washington Hall last Monday evening. Mr. Yeats had been speaking about the Irish Renaissance, that admirable right angle of thirty or forty years duration during which Ireland has introspected a bit and found something wrong with itself as well as with England.
Historical Background
Before going into detail in regard to the Renaissance proper, Mr. Yeats gave first a brief sketch of Irish literature and the Irish mind during those centuries which produced such figures as Berkeley, Swift and Burke. He spoke of the influence of the French Revolution, the deep-seated Irish affection for liberty, the facetious appraisal of England as “the origin of all evil.”
Getting to the body of his lecture, the speaker talked of the changing attitude of intelligent people in the latter part of the nineteenth century toward their own country. “Give a rough tongue to Ireland for once,” was the slogan which best typifies the new outlook. A thriving, romantic, theater - going, self-contemplative age was setting in—the era which produced the magnificent writ
ings of Lady Gregory, with their simple, elastic, quietly dignified style, the era of John Synge’s plays which were more exciting than a Democratic convention, the era of free thought, of exhausted police forces, and the most rebellious of rebels.
As if they depicted more accurately than did anything else the mind of Ireland during this Renaissance period. Mr. Yeats constantly referred to the Irish plays. Long associated with the famed Abbey Theater, he himself is unquestionably a firm believer that the stage in particular and literature in general give the truest cross section of a nation’s life.
Nobel Winner
Now 67 years old, 1923 Nobel Prize Winner, co-founder of the Irish Academy of Letters, a well rounded scholar, William Butler Yeats lectures leisurely, every now and then humorously, and likes his audience to ask him questions. Himself a non-Catholic, Mr. Yeats speaks of an indigenously Catholic country with an admirable broadmindedness, but with some decidedly set views which must not always mesh perfectly with the more developed Irish Catholic mind.
Bookmen Hear Paper On Realism at Meeting Monday
“Realism,” was the subject of a paper read by Edward Kilmurry, sophomore in the College of Commerce, at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening.
Idealism and not romanticism is the antithesis of realism in literature contended the speaker. Romanticism is opposed to naturalism, and both of these are philosophies which may be used by the realist and the idealist.
Writers who are generally called realists are in actuality, naturalistic realists. As an example Kilmurry cited Theodore Dreiser. Such authors as Frank Norris, particularly in McTeague, and O. E. Rolvaag are romantic realists, he continued.
The speaker was so thoroughly versed in his subject that there was little discussion concerning his theories. The placing of various authors into his categories did, however, evoke considerable argument among the Bookmen.
Work on St. Anselm Will Appear at Early Date.
“The Doctrine of Rectitude in St. Ansehn” is the title of a book to be published soon by Professor Robert Channon Pollock of the College of Arts and Letters.
The work, written after a thorough and comprehensive study of the life and works of St. Anselm, treats the doctrine of rectitude which dominates and unifies the entire thought of St. Anselm.
Anselm’s Onological Argument
St. • Ansehn’s Monologium is the first complete treatise of Christian philosophy and in this work a number of important questions were discussed and solved.
The doctrine of rectitude, the subject of the book, controls St. Anselm’s treatment of the relation between faith and reason and is the main point of his argument of the Pros-logium. This latter argument, called by Kant the Ontological Argument, has had a very significant career right up to the present time.
The book explains and discusses in detail this doctrine as presented by St. Anselm.
Movie Schedule For Next Six Weeks is Announced
The movie schedule for Washington Hall during the next six weeks is as follows:
January 13 or 14th (Bulletin will be posted) “Bring ’Em Back Alive,” with Frank Buck.
January 21st, “The Expert,” with Chic Sale.
January 28th, “The Man Who Played God,” with George Arliss.
February 4th, “Doctor X,” with Lee Tracy.
February 11th, “Penrod and Sam,” with Leon Janney.
February 18th, “Local Boy Makes Good,” with Joe E. Brown.
I complained of inability to think of crushing repartees in time. My friend said: “Be thankful. I always think of them in time and then spend the rest of the day wishing I had not!”—B. M. Rostron.
January 13, 1933
MARTERSTECK SPEAKS TO POLITICS STUDENTS
Russia’s Reaction to the Five Year Plan is Topic.
“Individuals in Russia are disgusted with Communism and with the Five Year Plan; and this general dissatisfaction is rapidly bringing about the downfall of the systems,” said W. T. Martersteck of South Bend, speaking before the politics classes Wednesday evening in the Law Auditorium. Mr. Martersteck has just returned from Kramatorsky, Ukraine, where he was employed by the Soviet government as chief engineer of the Kramatorsky Machine Building Plant for two years.
Russia No Threat
Speaking in a very conversational manner, Mr. Martersteck interested his audience for two hours, outlining the Five Year Plan just completed and the one which will soon be initiated, describing the conditions of the country, and presenting by means of stories, anecdotes, and humorous incidents a complete picture of the character and personality of the average Russian. The engineer stressed the point that Americans even in the depths of economic depression are better off than the Russian at the present time. “Russia’s plan will fail. There is no need to be alarmed at the possibility of the Soviet to disrupt the political or economic systems of the world, if once these systems secure stability,” said the speaker.
Paul C. Bartholomew of the Politics Department introduced the speaker. Following the lecture Mr. Martersteck answered numerous questions concerning the various phases of Russian life he had not discussed.
Ohio State Added to N. D.
Football Schedule for ’35-’36
Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics at the University, announced this week that Ohio State university has been added to the football schedule for 1935 and 1936. Although definite arrangements have not as yet been completed, the first game will probably be played at Ohio State. One of the teams to be played in 1933 and 1934 will undoubtedly be dropped because of the impractibility of an 11 game schedule.
Fifteen
Ireland—Ever Religions, Materialism's Bitter Foe
More than thirty years ago the Very Reverend Canon Patrick A. Sheehan was occupied zealously in serving his little parish in Doneraile, County Cork, Ireland. He also found time to do some writing which, in a final analysis, will undoubtedly take its place in the literature of Ireland. From his pen came fiction, essays, poetry, drama, tragedy and not a little that was prophecy.
Religion vs. Materialism
In Under the Cedars and Stars he muses on the materialistic trend of other peoples and wonders what will happen to the people of Ireland, when they will have reached ‘that intellectual status where nerves seem to be everything and healthy thought is not only unrefined but morbid.’ He finds it hard to imagine such a revolution in a nation’s ideas ‘where . . . you cannot stir hand or foot without coming bolt upright against God.’ He is convinced ‘that a genius so varied and exalted will never long suffer itself to be linked with the spirit of the age or any other spirit of darkness, but will rise above mere materialism on the wings of the poetic idea, and will always keep in touch of reality through its moral and religious instinct.’
Horrible Realism
‘Literature,’ he says, ‘has assumed in all ages, but more especially in modem times, the privilege of “guide, philosopher, and friend” to the world. Hence we find that the worst forms of literature are excused on the ground that they teach a lesson, . . . they are sermons told with all the emphasis of a horrible realism that affects one’s nerves more terribly thane the most torrential eloquence.’ ‘The Man of Letters,’ he continues, ‘will come to Ireland, as he has come to France, to England, to Germany, and with him the seven other spirits, Zeitgeist, Weltschmerz, etc., to abide and take up their home, or to be exorcized and banished summarily forever.’
He analyzes these seven spirits and declares ‘all the spirits have one enemy, and but one,—the spirit of religion.’ ‘In France it was Voltaire who would banish from his republic of atheism even the ancillary arts of
poetry, music and painting. In England the man of letters, in the shape of the scientist, who would banish from human thought everything that savored of the ideal, everything that could not be peered at in a microscope. From the steppes of Russia to the Scandinavian mountains, and thence to the mud-dykes of Holland came the man of letters with a religion, priest and ritual and ceremonies—and above all, with dogma— the dogma that man is supreme.’
A Prophecy
How all this will affect the people whom he loves so dearly, he writes, ‘I can forecast the time when this people of destiny, here by the wild seas of the north, and right in the gangway of the modern world, will have to face and examine the dogma of this modem literature. Nay, I can even see certain vacillations and soultremblings under the sweet and delicious music of language, attuned and attenuated in accordance with the canons of modem, perfect taste. But I know that the sturdy character of the people, stubborn after their eight hundred years of fight, and their religious instincts which nothing can uproot, and their power of adapting all that is best in life with all that is useful for eternity, and. above all their sense of humor, will help them, after their first shock, to vibrate back towards their traditional and historical ideas, and finally settle down into perfect poise of reason and religion combined. They will never accept literature as dogma; but they may turn the tables, and make their dogmatic beliefs expand into a worldwide literature.’
Doyle Addresses Faculty
of Arts and Letters College
Judge Albert Doyle, professor in the Department of Speech here at the University, addressed the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty professors last Wednesday night at their meeting in the LaSalle hotel.
Judge Doyle spoke- on the prisons which he has visited and stressed particularly Blackell’s Island, Sing Sing, and Michigan City.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
“How Can Europe Pay?”
Is the Real Debt Question
By Walter Johnson
This is the second of a series of articles by Walter Johnson, dealing with the more perplexing of the economic problems of the day.
The whole solution of the war debt settlement, according to Mr. Baer of the Herald, has been reduced to a simple matter of long evasion—-which is as true as it is clever.
Climax In French Repudiation
This problem, like religion, forgotten in prosperous years, has come to our attention particularly and forcibly as a result of the present siege of economic adversity. Payments were made with difficulty and much grumbling in 1930. Hoover’s moratorium of 1931 created much comment, but postponed the climax another year. During these last few months, however, they have become a national issue, politically and economically, one which seems to have culminated in the recent refusal of France to pay her 1932 installment a virtual repudiation. Let us review the history of these obligations.
Both Germany and the Allies, after a few years of warfare, found their finances low, further taxation impossible, and themelves forced to borrow money. Individual American banking firms provided the initial funds, but on our entering the war the American government assumed charge of all Allied loans, and financed them through the issuance of Liberty Bonds.
Funded In “Capacity To Pay”
Till the Armistice in 1918 the Allies had borrowed approximately seven billions of dollars, chiefly in foodstuffs, raw materials, munitions and other war supplies, all of which were made in this country. Immediately after the war, to permit a gradual decline of this demand and save our industries from sudden panic, as well as to facilitate the reconstruction of Europe, we advanced another three billions, the greater part of which was in cash.
In 1922 the United States appointed a World War Foreign Debt Commission which proceeded to make arrangements individually with representatives of the various nations for payment and funding. The total
amount of the lebts in that year, including interest, was about eleven and one half billions. Over a sixty-two year period our debtors agreed to pay
Walter Johnson
“This problem, like religion . . .”
additional interest of another ten and one half billions, making a total debt of about twenty-two billions of dollars.
These refunding arrangements were negotiated on the principle of capacity to pay, and in each instance provided for substantial reductions in the debts. Principal, in all cases, was left untouched, but interest rates were lowered far below the prevailing rate. Liberty Bonds, at the time, paid four and one-fourth per cent, while the average interest rate on the debts was close to three. Thus debt totals over the sixty years, computed at a normal interest, were reduced approximately one half.
Europe Demands Reconsideration
To date the United States has received over two and one half billions in payment, but, paradoxically, Europe paid us this sum mainly out of reparations received from Germany, these reparations having been paid with money borrowed from private financiers in America.	.
So much for history. Aftei* the payments of last December the nations of Europe were almost unanimous in demanding a reconsideration and a revision of their accounts. At present things are at a standstill in this country, pending the change of administration in March.
Throughout the whole period of (Continued on Page 30)
PILLSBURY WILL SPEAK AT NOTRE DAME JAN. 30
Inventor of X-Ray Camera to Lecture Here.
Arthur C. Pillsbury, famous scientist and explorer, will give one of his interesting lectures January 30th in Washington Hall.
This address will be illustrated with slides and moving pictures which Mr. Pillsbury has taken. Many of these reels showing the growth of flowers will be in natural colors. Mr. Pillsbury invented and made the first X-ray camera which he used in photographing several of his pictures. Four years of work were necessary to make the exposures which will be shown in six minutes.
The Pillsbury laboratories are in Berkeley, California where §35,000 worth of cameras and microscopes are used in picturing nature.
In the harbor of Pago Pago, American Samoan Islands, Pillsbury descended to the ocean bottom where he sketched marine life in its characteristic colors.
This lecture, although primarily scientific, will be highly entertaining.
Thundering Herd Asked To Keep Off The Grass
“Damage to the quadrangle lawns from the movie rush and careless campus student traffic is threatening to mar the beauty of that section of the campus,” stated a University official this week. “The beauty of Notre Dame’s quadrangle has been a source of pride to previous student bodies, but this year thoughtlessness — without malice, of course—has threatened to injure the shrubs and lawns.”
Since residents of Brownson, Carroll, Dillon and Freshman halls have been requested to attend the second show at 8:15, there is no need for a rush for seats.
A. B. Preregistration!
Tomorrow, January 14, is the last day for pre-registration in the College of Arts ahd Letters according to Father Miltnef, dean. Those who fail to present themselves by that time will inevitably meet with considerable inconvenience' in getting their class schedule for the next semester. Office hours are from 8:30 to 11:30 and from 1:00 to 4:30.
January. 1S, 19J3
Seventeen
SHEEHAN SPEAKS TO PRESS CLUB MEMBERS
Opportunities in Field of Publicity Discussed.
The various divisions of publicity and the opportunities it offers to the young journalist was the subject of a lecture delivered by John H. Sheehan, ’31, publicity director of the South Bend Lathe Works, to the Press Club, Tuesday, January 10.
Publicity is merely advertising in the form of a type of news, the speaker brought out, and is a field which is little understood by the average layman, whose ideas of publicity work include only a picture of some celebrity’s blatant press agent.
“Journalism students are becoming more interested each year in the field of publicity because, when compared wtih regular newspaper work, it is found to offer more congenial working conditions, greater compensation to beginners, better hours, and less haste,” Mr. Sheehan stated.
“An amazing number of interesting facts adaptable to use in feature work for publicity purposes are to be found in all three divisions of the field if one but searches them out,” continued the lecturer in part.
“Publicity’s greatest problem,” he stated in answer to a question asked during the open forum which followed his lecture, “is the threefold fairness to the company, the editor and the reader for which the publicity writer must strive at all times.”
Mr. Sheehan has held the post of publicity director at the South Bend Lathe Works since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1931.	,
Husing Cheers For N. D. \/
In Official “Football Review”
Students who have read the annual Football Revieiv may have noticed a statement by Ted Husing, sports announcer, concerning the broadcasting of football games. Husing said, “Notre Dame has saved the broadcasting of college games.”
By this statement Mr. Husing desired to give credit to Notre Dame University for encouraging and allowing the broadcasting systems to report over the air all of the university’s major contests at a time when many colleges and universities were crusading against the radio broadcast.
THEATRE TALK b
—Rog^r Beirne
The first unit of Radio City rises ®n the sky line of Manhattan, and on the horizon of radio and of the amusement world in general, as a new monument to the optimistic future of American entertainment. The effect of all the towering strength of Rockefeller Center on American drama is at present negligible. Radio entertainment has received a new impetus, of course; that the great American entertainment scene is being institutionalized in one form may lead to the needed developments in the other forms is the most natural outcome to be expected.
Pro and con the newspapers have noted the unusual features of the Music Hall and the new cinema house. How the directors will continuously present shows extravagant and lavish enough for the scale of the houses is the problem second to box-office lesions. The great stages in both houses will be overlapped with some enormous spectacle that will be of moment in the legitimate theatre sometime in the merry, merry month of. maybe.
Charley’s Aunt, Jan. 20
The University Theatre will come to its dramatic terms with “Charley’s Aunt” on the twentieth of this month. As the play was originally called for a curtain before the holidays, the added rehearsal advantage should allow of an excellent bit of finesse. Dave Powers took special cognizance of every aunt he saw during the holidays to assure realism uunder his red wig. All the cast are healthy and' strong despite their grave anxiety over a few of the business tricks of the play. Jack Finneran will have to say “Mama” as he used to so many years ago. Tighe Woods has a pleading scene, the kind from one knee, two hands out. You know, it is cold on the Washington Hall stage these nights, but the cast finds rehearsals very well done.
The personality of William Butler Yeats in its affinity to the Irish Renaissance and its identity with the spirit of that movement meant much to us. For what is peculiar to the Celtic race in the particular characteristics of it can never be grasped in any amount of reading or by indirect introductions. Just as Mr.
Yeats demanded that the Irish Theatre be for beauty and not for ideas, for poetic plays and musical voices, and not for intellectual tracts and mechanical presentations, so, too, we can demand the lore of Ireland when we appreciate the Irish mind. One who can feel the impassioned urge behind John Synge’s inabliity to decide “whether it be love or hate that makes me write of Ireland,” and enjoy Yeats’ smile on reporting this, can better ask the meaning of Celtic theatrical success.
Yeats’ Victory
The National Irish Theatre, now the Abbey Theatre, has been a realization for over a quarter of a century of William Butler Yeats’ true, indigenous Irish theatre ideal. With Lady Gregory, the Fays, and a few others, Mr. Yeats has decided a victory or two by simple faith and simple principles so that posterity can be but the judge of the theatrical extent of the Irish folk play. The first victory and the greatest one came in the first decade of this century, about the time that the National Irish Theatre succeeded the Irish Literary Theatre. This meant that Yeats and his interpretations of what a national theatre should be would be perpetuated, and that Edward Martyn and “the more cosmopolitan drama of ideas” were only to follow.
Repertorial System
The Abbey Theatre was given as a benefice for a period of years and the title of the Abbey Theatre Players was eventually used. From the beginning the program tendency was toward the repertory. The repertorial system was in direct distinction to the star system, commercial theatre of London, and elsewhere. The latter is still, sadly enough, very much alive. To portray the plays written under the ideals of a positively-unto--Irish thought and tongue, the actors were carefully schooled in voice and poetic form deliverance. To make the repertorial system successful, the plays had to have individual merit and balance. The success of all the earnest strife is not a historical record but is apparent today in the present Abbey Players. Against the high financial Broadway, the Abbey Players this year, as in other years, took (Continued on Paste 30)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
“LET THE DEAD PAST BURY ITS DEAD”
1932 has passed into the annals of time. 1932, which left the world bewildered at the greatest economic depression in history, will bring back unpleasant memories of financial ruin, oversupply and hunger in every land.
All of that is part of 1932 and 1932 is gone. 1933 is here. The new year offers a new starting place for both the individual and the nation. A place from which a wiser people can build a new economic system that will reduce to a minimum cyclical depression and human suffering.
Whatever that system may be, it must be builded in the future on a foundation of united effort. The past must have no part. —University Daily Kansan.
V
OH DEATH WHERE IS THY STING?
A professor at Fordham University is reported to have passed a student in one of his classes who had been dead for six months.
V
FOR THE GENTLEMEN ONLY!
The University of Nebraska offers men students a course in the selection of clothing. Instruction is given in what to wear, when to wear it, colors and designs fitted to different types of men and the distinguishing of good and poor material.	.
V
INNOCENTS ABROAD
A couple of Lehigh students picked up some girls recently. Imagine their embarrassment when they discovered the young ladies to be members of the faculty.
CLEANING UP THE COLLEGE!
Students at Texas University are requested to throw all waste paper around the grounds in order to give varsity athletes employment.
V
S—CRAM, PROFESSOR.
A Wisconsin professor has come to the defense of the maligned practice known as “cramming.” He maintains that matter learned rapidly is retained better than that gained after hours of application. According to him all powers of concentration are at a low ebb after a half hour.
V
WHAT NEXT!	'
Co-eds at Missouri have devised a novel way to keep in touch with their dates. They make pajamas out of the handkerchiefs of their admirers. We suppose the dateless gals haven’t even a handkerchief to their backs.
V
HIT OR MISS!
With only a few exceptions, all students of of the University of Chicago will, beginning this quarter, be subject to the new two-grade plan. Under this system the student receives a grade of S (satisfactory) or U (unsatisfactory).
V
THE TOUCH SYSTEM!
Trinity College has a Braille club. Evidently the girls want to get along with their blind dates.
V
SOUND ADVICE!
A sign on the door of the dean’s office at Creighton reads, “Get your grades here” and beneath it, “Pass out quietly.”
January 13, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
BENGAL BATTLES
Attention this week of all pugilistically inclined individuals is called to the fact that sometime in early March, probably during the first week. The Scholastic will again stage another boxing tournament. Last year’s exhibition was more than a success. The fighting was genuinely hard; Bengal received over three hundred dollars.
Monday noon a meeting will be held for those men of the ring who consider the maintenance of the mission fund a worthy undertaking, and the prospect of becoming a University boxing champion reasonably enticing. You don’t have to be a Camera; we’d prefer that you aren’t.
V
INCONSISTENT?
A news story in this week’s Scholastic tells the rather pathetic tale of Mr. James Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus and general alumni secretary. It seems that if some help from the heavens is not soon forthcoming there is a strong likelihood that the Alumnus will no longer be printed. Failure on the part of many alumni to pay their yearly association dues has resulted in the financial riddle which faces the editor.
We are getting a bit tired of hearing that money is tight. We know it is, and that millions are barely subsisting. One thing about the whole depression, though, has struck us as being strangely paradoxical. We have reference to the outward normalcy of people’s lives in these unparalleled abnormal times. We continue to stand in line in front of movie houses, still get seats behind the goal posts, and never get waited on in department stores. We go to Notre Dame Christmas dances that make the doors bulge, and we know of loads of night clubs which have to turn down reservations.
The point is simply this: Many people, and we / think they include a large percentage of Notre
Dame’s alumni, have never clearly distinguished in their own minds between a luxury and a necessity. They will buy a new Cadillac and continue to use a two-year-old tooth brush.
We refuse to believe that Notre Dame’s five thousand alumni cannot support a monthly magazine. Their indifference up to date is due either to a failure to grasp the importance of some central, pivotal alumni organization, or to downright negligence.
V
PERSONALITY PLUS
We leave the task of evaluating Calvin Coolidge as a United States president for some 1950 historian, but we cannot refrain from commenting on some perhaps obvious but unique sides of the man. In a day when a big mouth and a substantial amount of self esteem are looked upon an indispensable tools of success, in an era of the the extravert, the contact man, the ballyhooer, the sensationalist, it is refreshing to come upon a man who kept his tongue close to his cheek and kept everybody guessing.
It is not discrediting to the Democratic landslide or to Mr. Hoover to say that if the Republican party had nominated Mr. Coolidge at Chicago last June the reins of government might not have changed hands for some time. True, Calvin Coolidge had the good fortune of being president during four years of unprecedented bounty. Because of this fact it is possible that the general esteem in which his administration is held has been given somewhat of an unnatural stimulus. The fact remains, nevertheless, that the man was one who would have been as unruffled about a depression as he was elated about a boom.
Although the etymology of the word might have something to do with making a noise, we feel justified in saying that Calvin Coolidge had an unusual personality. It was all his own, perhaps, but what outstanding personality isn’t singular?
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Measure Michigan State
36-19 Victory Brings Return To GAME TUESDAY RENEWS Win Column After Four Losses RIVALRY WITH GOPHERS
Heavy Scoring In Second Half Lead by Krause and Baldwin
Overwhelms State Cagers.
By James F. McKeon
Showing a complete reversal of form over that which characterized their play in the previous four games, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated Michigan State by the score of 36-19 at East Lansing, Monday night.
Irish Start Slowly
After a slow start during which time State swept into a four point lead, the Keoganmen began functioning with the result that they soon gained a lead which was never relinquished throughout the course of the game.
Holding a 14-10 advantage at the half the Irish opened up a furious attack soon after the second half got under way and thereafter they could not be denied.
Again in this game as in most of the previous encounters Ed Krause was the big gun in the Notre Dame attack, registering four field goals and three free throws for a total of eleven points, or two more than Johnny Baldwin with three field goals and a like number of free throws could gather. Voegele and Jordan collaborated to add 13 points to the total.
State Star Ousted
McCaslin, State forward stood out on the offense for his team before he was ejected from the game with four personal fouls. He duplicated Krause’s efforts with four field goals and three free throws for over half of his team’s total points. Herrick with four points was the next high scorer in the State lineup.
The game was exceedingly rough.
A total of 24 fouls were called of which 15 were committed by State and the remaining nine by Notre Dame. Kircher and McCaslin were both ejected with four personals.
Leo Crowe
Playing Despite Injury
Notre Dame, given 20 chances to score from the foul line made good on
ten of them while seven out of 12.
The lineups.
Notre Dame (36)	*FG
Voegele, f ........3
Jordan, f .............2
Farris, f ............ 0
Krause, c .............4
Baldwin, g ............3
Crowe, g ..............0
O'Neill, g ........... X
State converted
FT FTA PF Pts.
2	5	18
12	18
0	0	10
3	6	3	11
3	6	2	9
1111 0	0	0	2
Totals .............
Michigan State (19)
Patchett, f ..........
Herrick, f............
McCaslin, f ..........
Van Fassen, c.........
Dekker, c ............
Kircher, g............
Vondette, g ..........
Venderost, g
Totals
13 10 20	9 36
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
10 0 12 2	0	10	4
4	3	4	4	11
0	12	3	1
0	0	0	2.0
0	0	0	4	0
0	0	0	0	0
0	12	11
7	5	9	15	19
Referee, Frank Lane (Cincinnati) ; umpire, John Travnicek (Armour Tech).
Minnesota Brings Veteran Quint Here For Clash.
Renewing a rivalry that began ten years ago, Minnesota’s basketball squad will invade Notre Dame gym for a clash with the Irish quintet next Tuesday night.
The Gophers will present a veteran lineup and one that is exceptionally well fortified with tall men. No member of the regular five is under six feet in height and all are rugged and fast.
Robinson Aggressive Forward
Captain Brad Robinson, outstanding Gopher offensive threat, is expected to display driving, aggressive forward tactics at their best. Robinson was a regular end on the Minnesota football team last fall.
Virgil “Heavy” Licht and Myles Mace will probably team at guards for the invaders. Both are lettermen from a year ago. Licht was mentioned as an all-Big Ten guard on several selections last season. He scored 135 points during the season, 79 of them in conference games.
Wells Wright, a center, and Red Sochacki, a forward, will probably complete the visitors’ lineup. Both are monogram men. Wright played forward last year but has been converted to the pivot position.
Good Reserves
Outstanding among the Gopher reserves are Vernon Anderson, Gordon Norman, and Jimmy O’Connor. O’Connor, a tall, steady sophomore, plays either forward or guard. He was used at the latter position against Purdue last week when Licht was unable to play. Norman is the tallest man of the squad, standing four inches over six feet.
(Continued on Page 29)
January 13,1933
Tuenty-one
MARQUETTE SCORES FIRST WIN OVER N.D.
Hilltoppers Beat Irish In Overtime Battle 3S-32.
By Howard Waldron
Taking advantage of a decided edge in height, a big, speedy, accurate-shooting team from Marquette downed the basketball Irish of Notre Dame last Saturday night by a score of 35-32 in an overtime contest. This was the fourth straight defeat for Notre Dame and marked the first Marquette victory over the Irish in ten years. This was the fifth victory of the year for the Hilltoppers and the first over Notre Dame in thirteen games.
Zummach Scores
Zummach started the fireworks for -Marquette on a long shot from the side. Ed Krause retaliated and made six points, which coupled with Joe Voegele’s free throw, to give Notre Dame a 7-6 lead at the end of the first ten minutes. Krause made two more baskets on his favorite shot, a one-handed shot from the pivot. But Marquette came back strong and despite the loss of Kukla, center star who left the game for fouling Krause four times, were ahead at the halftime, 16-13.
The game, which was a bang-up rough and tumble affair throughout, gave the spectators, of whom there were 6,500, a real thrill auu during the second half and overtime. The Irish trailed until, with ten minutes to go, Eddie Alberts sank a beautiful long shot from the side and a free throw to give them a lead of 22-20. Alberts had entered the game for Joe Voegele who evicted himself on personal fouls.
Irish Take Lead
Marquette spurted again and regained the lead on shots by Ronzani, and Zummach and Morstadt’s free throws. There were now six minutes left to play and the score was 26-22 in favor of the Hilltoppers. “Moose” Krause scored again under the basket and Leo Crowe made a free throw. Captain Johnny Baldwin sent a long arching shot from the side and Notre Dame led 27-26, with four minutes to go. ■ Baldwin again sent in a long shot to make the count 29-26, two minutes being left in the half.
But Marquette was not yet down.
Butler Renews Rivalry With Irish Tomorrow
Co-captain Ronzani tried a long one, which rolled in and out, and things looked good for Notre Dame. Krause fouled Zummach, who made his free throw good, and left the game for having too many personal fouls. With
Eddie Alberts
An uncanny ability on long shots
29 seconds to go, Marstadt, sophomore forward, banged in a basket to tie the game at 29-29. A five minute overtime was now necessary to decide the winner.
In the overtime Ronzani tossed in a short shot, but Alberts countered with a long one. Morstadt and Mullen then sent in long baskets and the Marquette defense became airtight. Notre Dame couldn’t break through and the game ended after Johnny Baldwin’s free throw was good.
Krause Stars
Ed Krause, displaying the form that made him an All-American center last year, was the star for Notre Dame. He made five field goals and four out of seven free throws to tie Morstadt, sophomore ace of Marquette, for high honor points. Captain Johnny Baldwin played his usual flashy floor game and made twro baskets and two free throws out of two attempts. Eddie Alberts, subbing for Joe Voegele, showed an uncanny ability to sink long arching shots from the side, making two of this variety.
Co-captain Gene Ronzani, Marquette football captain and shot-put (Continued on Page 32)
IS 19TH MEETING
Hinklemen Seek to Cut Into Margin Piled up by N. D.
During Last Six Years.
Butler’s Bulldogs, long arch-rivals of Notre Dame basketball teams, will meet the Irish for the 19th time tomorrow night in the Notre Dame gym.
Toby Hinkle’s crew from Indianapolis faces this year’s Notre Dame series well fortified with veterans, and spurred by the inspiration that successive defeat always provokes.
Veteran Team
Since Hinkle took over the cage sport at Butler six years ago, only four teams out of an imposing list of forty, have succeeded in maintaining an average of more than .500 against the Bulldogs. George Keogan’s Irish with seven victories and three deefats in their Butler series, has the highest ranking of any of those teams.
Butler’s lineup includes a group of eagers who have all had at least one year of competition in college. The majority of the Bulldogs are famliiar opponents of the Irish.
Cy Proffitt is expected to start at center. Proffitt is playing his third year with the Hinklemen and has been a dangerous man in every Notre Dame game. Last season he was nominated by various experts as the nearest approach in the state to Ed Krause for center play.
Miller At Guard
Ray Miller, the best floor man on the squad, and an excellent dribbler, will be at one guard post. Ben Parrish another veteran, will play the other guard position.
Bert Davis, a tall junior forward, and Lyle Withrow are expected to complete Butler’s starting lineup. Davis played with Parrish and Miller at Indianapolis Tech in high school and was a regular with Butler after the semester a year ago.
Withrow led the Indianapolis team in scoring last year until the first of February when scholastic difficulties (Continued on Page 28)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Inter hall Basketball Opens As Practise Sessions Begin
FIRST GAME FEB. 5
Season Will End March 21st; Fourteen Teams To Compete In Two Divisions.
Interhall competition which enjoyed one of its best years in football last fall will be resumed on Sunday, Feb. 5 when 28 basketball teams will take the floor in quest of court honors. Thirteen halls and Off-Campus all will place both heavyweight and lightweight teams on the floor. The regular season will end on March 19 with the championship game in each division being played on Tuesday, March 21.
Practice Began Wednesday
Practice for the various teams began Wednesday night and will be held every Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, provided that there is no varsity game scheduled for that evening. The limit for the lightweight teams is 150 pounds.
Included in the 14 teams are Carroll and- Off-Campus, both of whom found it necessary to drop out of the
VOEGELE HOLDS SCORING LEAD
(Including Michigan State Game)
Name	*FG	FT	FTA	PCT	PF	PTS
Voegele, f			26	17	31	.548	20	69
Krause, c			20	13	38	.342	18	53
Jordan, f 			15	5	9	.555	11	35
Baldwin, g				13	7	13	.538	14	33
Crowe, g			9	8	15	.533	10	26
Alberts, f 1—		6	1	6	.167	6	13
O’Neill, g			2	0	0	.000	0	4
McGuff, f-g			2	0	0	.000	3	4
Keating, f			2	0	1	.000	0	4
Mettler, f-g			1	0	0	.000	1	2
Angsten, f			1	0	0	.000	0	2
Newbold, g			0	0	0	.000	2	0
Holland, c			0	0	0	.000	1	0
Ferris, f-g			0	0	0	.000	1	0
Totals			97	51	113	.451	87	245
Opponents 			76	58	105	.552	87	210
*FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FT A—free throws attempted; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PF—personal fouls; PTS— total points.
football competition because of lack of men. Both, of these teams are expected to make strong bids for the title.
Lyons, winner of the heavyweight title last year and Carroll which copped the title in the lightweight division should finish high up in the competition again this year despite the fact that they will have to form entirely new teams. Alumni has most of the outstanding men of last year’s Lyons team and it may be that the junior hall will add the basketball title to the football championship that it won last month.
Schedule Not Arranged
Coaches have been appointed for the various teams and for the next few weeks they will be busy getting their men into shape for the opening of the season.
The schedule for the season has not been arranged as yet but the committee will in all probability meet early next week to draw one up.
Democracy has not failed; the intelligence of the race has failed before the problems the race has raised.— —Dr. Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago.
N.U. SQUARES ACCOUNT IN RETURN CAGE GAME
Reiff Scores Heavily as Irish Lose Third Game, 33-29.
With All - American forward Joe Reiff leading her attack, Northwestern on New Year’s Eve avenged a previous defeat by downing the Fighting Irish 33-29. It was the third straight defeat for Notre Dame by a Big Ten team since Purdue’s Boilermakers stopped her 19 game winning streak.
N.	D. Leads At Half
Notre Dame started well but faltered in the second half losing a lead of three points and the contest. The Irish got the tipoff and scored first on a long shot by Joe Voegele. But the advantage was short-lived for Northwestern spurted ahead on baskets by Culver and Reiff to lead 14-9. Notre Dame rallied and overcame these five points by three successive field goals by Captain Johnny Baldwin and one by Johnny Jordan, sophomore forward who was shifted to guard, to take the lead at the half, 19-16.
The lead, which shifted eight times during the game, was taken by the Wildcats at the start of the second half and held by them, except when two baskets knotted the score at 25 to 25 midway in the half, until the end of the game.
In the second half, Joe Voegele was sent to center for Notre Dame and Big Ed Krause went to forward in Voegele’s place. But this strategy by Coach Keogan failed, for Reiff broke through and sank two baskets on a long shot and a pivot play, and Brewer made a field goal and a free throw to give them an advantage of 23-20.
Alberts And Crowe Fail
Baldwin then made a short shot from under the basket, but Johnson countered with a goal to make the score 25-22. Notre Dame tied the score at 25 to 25 on two shots by Baldwin, but at this point Northwestern took the lead and was never headed. Alberts and Crowe tried in vain to cut down the lead with baskets but the contest closed with Northwestern on the long end of the score.
Notre Dame’s defeat may be at-(Continued on Page 27)
January 13, 1933
Twenty-three
OHIO STATE CAGEPS DOWN IRISH 30 TO 24
INTRODUCING	Ed Krause
Keoganites Drop Second Game In Row at Columbus.
By George R. Belting
With the sting of defeat which they suffered at Purdue still burning in their hearts, the Notre Dame eagers set out for Columbus, Ohio December 28, resolved and determined to do their best against Ohio State. However, their best was not sufficient to corral Coach Olsen’s Big Ten squad and the Red and Gray walked off the floor holding down the long end of a 30 to 24 score.
O.	S. U. 24, N. D. 8 At Half
It was a slow, uninteresting game with neither team attempting any trick shots. Notre Dame played conservative ball, taking only thirteen long shots throughout the entire contest and counting on five of them. Ohio State likewise attempted to work the ball in and then make their try for the basket on the pivot play.
The victors got away to an early lead. Within the first forty seconds of play, Colburn, flashy forward, took a pass from Captain Mattison and separated the meshes with a pot-shot for the first score of the game. The Ohio State quintet held that lead all during the game and not once did Notre Dame threaten to take it from them. At the half the score stood at 24 to 8 in the Red and Gray’s favor.
’ Irish Improve
Had Coach George Keogan’s boys played the brand of ball in the first half that they displayed in the second period, the final result might have been different. The entire Notre Dame team handled the ball without a slip, and for the first seventeen and one-half minutes of that second session they held the Ohio State five scoreless. But expert guarding on the part of Coach Olsen’s men kept the Fighting Irish from tying the score.
In the final two and one-half minutes Ohio State put on plenty of steam and dropped in three successive buckets to run their total to 30 points, while Joe Voegele counted on one of those single handed shots of his and Ed Krause made a long shot to register the final marker for Notre Dame.
Notre Dames’ last two successful (Continued on Page 2S)
By William Flynn
■ All-American football players are no novelty at Notre Dame. But an All-American basketball center is something that might attract a little attention in those places frequented
by bored, sophisticated campus commenters.
Notre Dam? had an All-American center last year. His name is Edward Walter Krause who rated that honor on the Christy Walsh selection for his play during the 1931-32 season.
Krause will be twenty years old in February. During those few years, as nationally known athlete go, he has crowded considerable activity and growth.
Began Athletics At Thirteen
He first began his athletic endeavors at De LaSalle high school in Chicago at the age of thirteen years if our calculations are right. They take into consideration the fact that he has been in college three years which would make him seventeen when he was graduate from high school. Considering four years of prep school education, the “X” of the equation equals “thirteen” or the age he started to high school.
By the time he was fifteen he had gained All-City recognition in Chicago high school circles as a tackle. During his senior year or during the season he was sixteen and seventeen he was chosen All-City Chicago basketball guard, and all-tournament at Loyola’s National Catholic prep meet which De LaSalle won twice in a row.
First String Tackle Last Year
Having participated in high school competition under the direction of Norm Barry, famed Notre Dame back of several years ago and a teammate of George Gipp, Krauce naturally <*ame to Notre Dame. When he enrolled in the Arts and letters college of this institution be had almost gained his full growth being six feet, three inches tall and weighing about 220 pounds. But there is still room for improvement for he has several “growing years” left.
Naturally, being such a big fellow, he went out for football. He made the first team his sophomore vear and was chosen All-American left tackle on the Mid-Week Pictorial selection for the season of 1932, his second in varsity competition.
But that All-American selection as basketball center was the big thing. When he made his first appearance in Dr. Keogan’s line-up a years ago, just before Christmas holidays, basketball fans didn’t know just how to take him.
Began Winning Streak
He lumbered out on the floor, took his position at center, got the tip-off from his opponent, dropped back to the foul line while Newbold, Crowe, and company were working the ball into an offensive position. He took the pass toward the pivot position, turned and dropped in a one-handed push shot.
“Well,” thought John Fan, “he looked pretty good on that play, for a football player. But it was probably luck.”
Maybe it was luck but Krause continued the same kind of play for sixteen games. And it has gone down in the record book that Notre Dame had a winning streak of sixteen games that season. Moreover, he
(Continued on Page 27)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
A Notre Dame Immortal:
Father John Farley, ’02
By Nick Connor
After delving into the past athletic history here at Notre Dame, one name that made early Notre Dame football famous, stand out. The personage about whom this article is written wore the Blue and Gold in the early years of the twentieth century. And at the present time this athlete of the past is the rector of Sorin Hall, he is our own Father John F. Farley.
Father Farley was once nicknamed “Tiger Lily” by his teammates, because at first glance he seemed quiet and unimpressive, but once he had donned those ancient moleskins, he might be compared with that famous character of Edgar Rice BorrougYs, Tarzan.
Played Baseball Too
He played football during the years of 1899-00-01, and he captained the eleven in his senior year in school. He also played in the outfield on the baseball team, where he starred in center or left field. Here he robbed many of the leading collegiate batsmen of extra hits by his timely fielding. It was a known fact that Father Farley had one of the strongest throwing arms in college baseball while he was a member of the Notre Dame nine. Many times he caught opponents at the plate by his accurate tosses from the center garden. Father Farley, however, was better known as a football player as a few historical events show.
Played Left End
In the fall of 1899, Coach McWeen-ey placed John Farley at left end. It will be remembered that back in the good old days of football the quarterback would often yell, “Ends back,” and the wingmen would come into the backfield and the backs would shift into the line. This accounts for the many long runs made from scrimmage by Father Farley while he held down one of the end positions. He was one of the hardest running, most elusive players that ever donned a Notre Dame football suit.
Notre Dame lost the University of Chicago game in 1899, 23 to 6. This was the first time that an Irish eleven had ventured into big-league competition. Heretofore the names of many prominent high schools were on the schedule. But in this Chicago game
Father Farley caused Coach A. A. Stagg of the Maroon eleven no end of grief, as Stagg used four reserve right ends in trying to stop this speedy Notre Dame player.
Father John Farley
They Called Him ‘Tiger Lily’
Father Farley caused confusion in the ranks of the Michigan Agricultural College eleven in a game during the same year by executing wide end runs and by his terrific plunges at the center of the line. On one play the Michigan safety man was carried from the field after he had attempted to tackle that driving body of bone and muscle.
Wouldn’t Leave Game
In the Indiana game of 1900, his playing created a sensation. Toward the end of the first half on the Crimson side of the field he was injured. But he refused to be taken from the game and he played his usual spectacular game in the third and fourth quarters by getting off long kicks and by smashing off tackle for long gains. As a result after the game Father John was the idol of two universities. However, Notre Dame lost to the Indiana aggregation, 6 to 0.
When Notre Dame played Northwestern in 1900, the game was staged on the Brownson gridiron, and some 600 rabid football fans were surprised to see that Farley had been shifted from end to halfback. He played at the right halfback position during the rest of his college days. The longest known run made by Father Farley was in the Englewood High game of 1900, when he recovered a fumble (Continued on Page 29)-
BOILERMAKERS SMASH HUSH VICTORY RECORD
Baldwin, McGuff Out of Game As Purdue Wins, 36-31.
By John Carbine
The score was Notre Dame 30, Purdue 29 with but three minutes left to play. With the crowd on its feet at the prospect of seeing Notre
Dame turn the tables on Purdue, its old basketball nemesis, “Dutch” Feh-ring, Purdue center, tok a nice pass from Kellar, pivoted for a pot shot that gave Purdue a one point lead.
A moment later, Fehring split the twine for another basket. That Purdue scored three more points in the final minutes of play was immaterial —Fehring’s work had snapped the Irish winning streak of nineteen games.
Irish Crippled
The Notre Dame team went to Lafayette minus the services of Captain Johnny Baldwin and Al McGuff who were sent to the infirmary on the day of the game. Purdue, sensing a weakness in the Irish lineup had run up a sixteen to seven lead by the end of the first half.
It was in this half that Purdue flashed a defense that accomplished what no other defense has been able to do—it stopped Krause the Irish, All-American center. So effectively did the Boilermakers bottle up Krause that he was unable to cage a single field goal during the entire first half. In fact, Joe Voegele’s two field goals were the only scores that the Irish were able to make from the floor.
Rally In Second Half
Coming back strong in the second helf, the Irish punctured the hitherto invulnerable Purdue defense and finally gained a 28 to 27 lead when Vic Mettler dropped in a beautiful long shot. Purdue came back when Harry Kellar, the high scorer of the game, caged a shot from the sidecourt.
A Notre Dame tipoff play, with (Continued on Page 29)
January 13, 1933
Tiventy~five
IRISH DOWN WILDCATS IN FIRST CAME, 28-25
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
Krause and Voegele Lead Attack Against N. U.
Showing a marked improvement in their play over that of their two previous efforts the Notre Dame basketball team defeated Northwestern in the Notre Dame Gymnasium, Monday night, December 19, by the score of 28 to 25.
It was one of the wildest games ever to be played here. Starting right in at the opening whistle both teams played hard basketball right through to the final gun. Both teams were striving to keep their record clean of defeat and a near-capacity audience was treated to a great game.
Baldwin Out
Notre Dame playing without the services of its captain, Johnny Baldwin for the greater part of the contest was in the lead throughout most of the game. Twice it held a six point lead only to have Northwestern come back and even the score and on one occasion establish a two point lead of its own.
Ability to take the ball off the backboard, in addition to the fact that Ed Krause was getting the jump on his opponent most of the time both helped Notre Dame not a little.
Northwestern led by Joe Reiff also played well but inability to convert free throws cost it whatever chance it had of winning the game. Out of 11 chances it could make good only three of them. Notre Dame on the (Continued on Page 28)
THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO
School of Dentistry
Established 1892
The next annual session will begin July 3rd, 1933. A three-year course of instruction is offered, quarter plan, leading to the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery. The course is recognized as class A by the University of the State of New York and the Dental Educational Council of America.
There are-many new features in the curriculum which are outlined in the catalogue. An abundance of’ clinical material is provided at the school and at the hospitals. Classes are limited in number. Catalogue mailed upon request.
For further information address
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
25 Goodrich St., BUFFALO, N. Y.
By James S. Kearns
HELP WANTED
Monday night of this week we heard a Notre Dame coach make an unusual talk to a Notre Dame squad. The coach was John P. Nicholson and the talk was a plea for more material.
Such an occasion is almost unheard of at Notre Dame where sports has thrived on its momentum, unspurred by passionate pleas for student support. The support has been always spontaneous.
The present condition of the track squad makes it almost unbelievable that there is not a record turnout. Never before has Nick been faced with so many vacancies to fill. The chances of being on the varsity are brighter than they ever have been for untried material. We expected to see the candidates falling over themselves in workouts.
Probably the best solution of the problem and the right course of action for the individuals who could be reporting and aren’t, is contained in Nick’s own statement: “The boys don’t have to be good, they needn’t be experienced. All I ask is that they come out faithfully; I’m anxious to work with them.”
It’s a fine idea. Why not try it ?
“NOTRE”
When the Minnesota basketball squad comes here next Tuesday, a young fellow who once was so thor
oughly Notre Dame in outlook that his pals called him “Notre,” will be getting his first impressions of the school. And they will be from a visitor’s viewpoint.
Jimmy O’Connor, outstanding Gopher sophomore, was “Notre” O’Connor to his high school teammates and friends a couple of years ago. That he should get his first impression of the Irish varsity as an opponent is the height of something.
WITHIN THE BUDGET
In these days of curtailed athletic budgets and deleted minor sports programs, it is a pleasant discovery to find that Notre Dame tennis and golf teams will be in action again this spring.
Notre Dame is fortunate in location for the continuance of these sports.
(Continued on Page 29)
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD”
114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage ’ included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Scholarships For Tufts College To Be Awarded
Announcement is made by Father Carrico, Director of Studies, of a Scholarship in Economics by Tufts college. The scholarship is known as the Baker Graduate Teaching Fellowship in Economics.
For the Academic Year 1933-34 three teaching fellowships are offered by Tufts college to holders of A.B. and B.S. degrees from recognized colleges. The department maintains seven fellowships, vacancies being created each year by graduation. It is anticipated that a successful applicant will accept an appointment for a second year.
Part Time Teachers
The Fellows devote half of their time to teaching and half to graduate study in advanced courses in Theoretical and Applied Economics within the Department of Economics and Sociology.
Braker Teaching Fellows receive an annual stipend of $1,000 each and free tuition in the Graduate School of the College. Fellows are selected upon the basis of personal and mental qualities and ability shown in the field of Economics.
Applications should be received by March 1, and should be addressed to the Department of Economics and Sociology. Tufts College, Medford, Massachusetts. Application forms can be received from Father Miltner, Dean of Arts and Letters.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule—1933
'Note: Heavyweights practice on "Varsity floor. Lightweights practice in Apparatus Room.
Friday, January 13
Alumni	7:00	p.	m.	Dillon
Badin	8:00	p.	m.	St. Edwards
Lyons	9:00	p.	m.	Off-Campus
Monday, January 16
Howard	7:00 p.	m.	Corby
Morrissey	8:C0 p.	m.	Walsh
Sorin	9:00 p.	m.	Freshman
Wednesday, January 18
Brownson	7:00 p.	m.	Badin
Carroll	8:00 p.	m.	Lyons
Alumni	9:00 p.	m.	Dillon
Friday, January 20
St. Edwards	7:00 p.	m.	Morrissey
Off-Campus	8:00 p.	m.	Sorin
Howard	9:00 p.	m.	Corby
Wm. T. Martersteck Will Address Engineer’s Club
W. T. Martersteck, a Notre Dame graduate who has spent several years in Russia, will address the Engineer’s club in the auditorium of the Engineering Buidling Wednesday night, , Jan. 18. Following his graduation here, Martersteck was employed by - the Soviet government to take the position of engineer of the Kramatorsky Building Plant in Russia.
This is to be the last open meeting of the year. All Engineers are urged to attend as engineering and its relation to the foreign countries will be discussed.
OHIO STATE GAME
(Continued from Page 23)
attempts were the only thrilling spots in the game. Voegele’s one-handed over the shoulder toss brought the crowd to its feet, and everyone held their breath as Krause let loose with a long one that circled the rim five or six times before falling through.
Voegele Scores Nine
Captain Ed Mattison leader of the Buckeye outfit and Joe Voegele, reliable Blue and Gold forward, were tied for the scoring honors with nine points apiece. Mattison had three field goals and three free throws to account for his markers. Voegele swished the meshes with two field goals and five free throws for his nine tallies.
Summary:
Ohio State (30) Colburn, rf...........
Brown, rf ............
Hinchman, If..........
Wilson, If ...........
Hosket, c.............
Conrad, c ...........
Beither, rg ..........
Mattison, 1g .........
FG FT FTA PF Pts. 3	2	2	1	8
0	0	0	1	0
2	13	15
0	0	0	0	0
1	2	4	3	4
0	0	0	2	0
12	3	14
3	3	4	2	9
Totals .............10
Notre Dame (24)	FG
Alberts, rf ...........1
Mettler, rf............0
Voegele, If ...........2
Krause, c..............1
Newbold, rg ...........0
Jordan, rg ............3
Baldwin, 1g............2
10	16	11	30
FT FTA PF Pts. 0	0	2	2
0	0	0	0
5	8	2	9
0	4	3	2
0	0	0	0
1117 0	14	4
Totals ............ 9	6	14	12	24
Technical Foul—Krause, (Notre Dame). Referee, Lane; umpire, Mowe.
Communism and capitalism are both essentially international in their conceptions.—Frank H. Simonds.
Sunday, January, 1 5
ART KASSEL and His Kassels in the Air Orchestra
Hear them play their own composition of “HELLS BELLSi' and many others
Advance 75c. Door $1.00 plus tax.
TICKETS ON SALE OLIVER HOTEL AND PALAIS ROYALE SALE CLOSES SATURDAY NITE
PALAIS ROYALE BALL ROOM
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33
Dec. 9—Notre Dame 41, Albion 20.
Dec. 15—Notre Dame 24, Ill. Wesleyan 12.
Dec. 19—Notre Dame 28, Northwestern 25.
Dec. 23—Purdue 36, Notre Dame 31.
Dec. 28—Ohio State 30, Notre Dame 24.
Dec. 31—Northwestern 33, Notre Dame 29.
Jan. 7—Marquette 35, Notre Dame 32.
Jan. 9—Notre Dame 36, Mich. State 19.
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 17—Minnesota at Notre Dame.
Jan. 21—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Jan. 23—Toledo at Toledo. -
Feb. 1—Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame.
Feb. 4—Chicago at Chicago.
Feb. 11—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 18—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Feb. 20—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis.
Mar. 4—Wabash at Notre Dame.
Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 11—Minnesota at Minneapolis.
January 13, 1933
Twenty-seven
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 23)
broke Notre Dame’s individual high scoring record before the season ended.
That happened when Army, including Ray Stecker who had made things tough for the Irish a few months before, came to the Notre Dame field house for a game of basketball. At the final gun, Army had been decisively beaten and Krause had scored a few less points than the entire Army team. His total was 19. That stood as a record until his. junior running mate, Joe Voegele, made 20 in the Albion game this year.
Krause is this year beginning his maior in the Department of Journalism. If he were a senior it would be timely to tell what he intended to do after graduation — sports wrtiing or coaching. But. as he has another year of competition, about all that can be said is that he will try to repeat as All-American basketball center and All-American tackle.
N. U. BEATS IRISH
(Continued from Page 22)
tributed to two factors, poor shooting from the free throw mark and an inability to keep Joe Reiff from shooting. The rangy Reiff, who made the All-American team at forward in 1931 and 1932, was consistent- both at short and long range. His 17 points were more than half the total his teammates could garner and made him high man for the evening’s scoring honors. Reiff had six field goals and five free throws out of eight tries. Notre Dame made three out of fourteen free throws for an average of .214, while Northwestern made nine out of twenty for an average of .450.
The contest was an unusually rough one and kept the referees busy calling fouls. Notre Dame was the chief offender committing 18, while Northwestern had. 12 against her. Captain Baldwin and Johnnv Jordan of Notre Dame, and Elmer Johnson of Northwestern left the game by way of the personal foul route.
Ed Krause, Notre Dame’s big AllAmerican center, wtih ten minutes to play missed eight consecutive free throws, while the score stood 28 to 25 in favor of Northwestern. In an earlier game, Krause had been the star for the Irish winning the game with his final field goal and foul shot. Leo Crowe, also, was off on his free throw shots missing three out of three.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (29)	*FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Crowe, rf		... 2	0	3	2	4
Voegele If 		... 2	1	1	n	u
Alberts, rf 		... 1	0	0	9	2
Krause, c		... 2	1	9	3	5
Baldwin, rg 		...4	1	1	4	9
	9	0	0	4	4
McGuff, rg 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Keating, 1g 			... 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		...13	3	14	18	29
" ... and say, Mother, this call is almost as good as a trip home. I’ll sure call oftener, now that I’ve found out how cheap it is!”
(The Economical X Noice oj millions K
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Northwestern (33)	-FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Reiff, rf 		... 6	5	8	9	17
Brewer, If			2	5	1	8
Johnson, c 		... 1	0	0	4	2
Moeller, c 		... 0	0	0	1	0
Culver, 1g 		... 2	0	7	9	6
Moonshowcr. rg		... 0	0	2	9	0
Totals 		...12	9	20	12	33
Referee, Frank	Lane	(Detroit) ;		umpire,	
John Schommer (Chicago).
*FG—field goals ; FT—free throws ; FTA— free throws attempted ;: PF—personal fouls ; PTS —points.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
FIRST N. U. GAME
(Continued from Page 25)
other hand made good on two out of five.
Krause opened the scoring for Notre Dame with a field goal, and Crowe added another before Culver scored the first two-pointer for Northwestern. From this point on Notre Dame gradually increased its lead till at the middle of the first half it held a 9 to 4 advantage. Northwestern, however, evened the score with a pair of free throws, a field goal by Johnson, and a free throw by Reiff. Johnny Jordan sent Notre Dame back into the lead with a pair of field goals and Krause also added one to give the Irish a safe lead at the half.
Wildcats Gain
Culver and Brewer sank field goals in rapid succession as the second half got under way, but Krause and Voe-gele again sent Notre Dame into a six point lead, each sinking a field goal. The Northwestern offense again began to function and two field goals by Brewer and another by Moonshower tied the score at 19 all. It was at this point that Baldwin replaced McGuff.
Voegele sank two field goals and Joe Reiff and Johnson tallied one apiece to keep the teams on even terms. Here a field goal by Reiff sent Northwestern into the lead, the first time that it had held an advantage since the early part of the game.
At this juncture Krause came to the fore, adding a field goal to tie the score, following it up by making good on a free throw and then bringing the scoring for the evening to a close with another field goal.
NOTRE DAME (28) *FG
Voegele, f ..........4
Jordan, f ........... 2
Krause, c ........... 5
MeGuff, g ........... 1
Baldwin, (C) g ......0
Crowe, g ........... 1
FT FTA PF Pts. 1119 0	0	3	4
1	4	1	11
0	0	3	2
0	0	0	0
0	0	0	2
Totals ...............13	2	5	8	28
Northwestern (25) Reiff, (C) f.........
Brewer, f ...........
Johnson, g ..........
Moonshower, g .......
Culver, g............
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
3	12	0	7
3	0	3	0	6
2	2	5	2	6
1	0	0	0	2
2	0	114
Totals ...............11	3	11	3	25
Referee, Frank Lane (Cincinnati) ; Umpire, John Schommer (Ghciago).
*FG—field goals ; FT—free throws ; FTA— free throws attempted :; PF—personal fouls ; PTS—points.
BUTLER PLAYS HERE
(Continued from Page 21)
forced him out of competition. He is playing his third year this season.
Prominent in the reserve material of the Butler squad are Harry Chick-edantz and Frank Baird, both guards and both lettermen. Baird is the fourth product of Indianapolis Tech on the squad.
In the matter of all time records, the Irish and the Bulldogs are deadlocked, each having won nine games. Back in 1909 and 1910 Notre Dame swamped the downstaters 47 to 14 and 49 to 16. The series was resumed in 1921 and Butler marked up six straight wins up to and including the 1924-25 games.
After that season a year elapsed before the teams met again. Butler was under Coach Hinkle’s guidance during the ’27-’28 season and Notre Dame started its record of seven wins in ten games, by dividing a two-game series. The Irish took both games in ’29-’3O and again in ’31-’32 and secured even breaks in the other two years.
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Catering to
NOTRE DAME MEN
for over thirty years
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
Every hour on the hour a fast train leaves the South Shore station, Michigan St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, convenient way to the city. Equally fast trains also leave Chicago every hour on the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1, Morrissey Hall.
SOUTH SHORE LINE
January 13, 1933
Twenty-nine
PURDUE GAME
(Continued from Page 24)
Eddie Alberts doing the scoring, functioned perfectly and Notre Dame gained the lead for the last time. The stage was now set for Fehring to crack the Notre Dame winning streak.
The victory for Purdue was the seventh straight that the Boilermakers have won over the Irish on the basketball court for a Notre Dame quintet has never been able to defeat the Lafayette lads. This - defeat also stopped Notre Dame in its attempt to set a new record for consecutive victories scored by the Irish.
Rough Game
The play was very rough with both teams indulging in football tactics. Leo Crowe, Notre Dame guard, was injured when Parmenter blocked him as he went in for a step-shot. It was thought for a while that Crowe’s
arm had been broken, but a more thorough examination showed that although the arm was severely injured, it was not broken.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (31) *FG FT FT A PF Pts.
Voegele, f ........4	1	2	3	9
Jordan, f ............. 2	1	2	1	5
Krause, c.............. 2	3	7	3	7
Crowe, g .............. 1	3	4	1	S
Ferris, g ............. 0	0	0	0	0
Newbold, g..............0	0	0	0	0
Mettler, g .............1	0	0	0	2
Alberts, g ............ 1	1	2	1	3
Totals ..............11	9	17	9	31
LEMONTREES
Optom etrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
Purdue (36) Kellar, f ............ Stewart, f ...........
Fisher, c ............
Fehring, c............
Cotton, g.............
Shaver, g.............
Parmenter, g..........
FG FT FTA PF Pts.
5	2	2	0	12
5	0	0	2	10
1	0	2	2	2
2	0	13	4
112	13
113	2	3
10	14	2
Totals .............16	4	11	14	36
-FG—field goals; FT—free throws: FTA— free throws attempted :; PF—personal fouls : PTS—points.
FATHER FARLEY
(Continued from Page 24)
and dashed 78 yards for a touchdown. The first of the famed Fighting Irish elevens won this game 74 to 0.
Some of the teams played against by Father Farley and his teammates during the years of 1899 to 1901 were Englewood High School of Chicago, Indiana University, University of Chicago, Northwestern, Beloit, Howard Park of South Bend, Physicians and Surgeons of Chicago, Michigan Agricultural College, Cincinnati U., Wisconsin U., and Rush Medical school. Many of these schools have now abandoned football, while others like Notre Dame have advanced and gained national honors.
N. D.-MINNESOTA
(Continued from Page 20)
The Notre Dame-Minnesota rivalry began in 1923 when the schools divided a home-and-home series, Minnesota winning the first game 22 to 21
and Notre Dame taking a 16 to 14 decision later.
The Gophers won the single game played the next season 25 to 12, but Notre Dame swept the three games played in the three succeeding seasons.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 25)
Ample competition of the best sort to be found in any college circles is available for Louie Chriest’s and Johnny Montedonico’s squads within easy reach.
Five Big Ten schools, Indiana, Purdue, Northwestern, Chicago, and Michigan are close at hand and they all produce high grade ' golf and tennis squads. Add to that list the innumerable nonconference schools of Michigan, Illinois, and Indiana, and you have a list of possible opponents that is more than ample.
A. C. P S. PRESIDENT
(Continued from Page 5)
ciation was Professor Sellars of the University of Michigan. He is one of the outstanding protagonists of critical realism. -Professor Sellars’ general discussion of the subject from his own point of view provided an ele-men of keen interest to the meet.
Notre Dame was well represented at the meeting, there being six of its faculty members present: Professors Daniel O’Grady, who read an excellent paper, “Anti-Realistic Tendencies,” John A. Staunton, and William F. Roemer, as well as Fathers Milt-ner, Leo R. Ward, and Julian Sigmar.
The next annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association will be held at Duq-jesne university, Pittsburgh, in December, 1933.
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (M.D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M.D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects spec-'fied for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Thirty
The Scholastic
EUROPEAN DEBTS
(Continued from Page 16)
lending and borrowing there seems to have been evidence of good faith and intent to pay. True, the loans were made during a period of war time hysteria, wThen an extra zero meant,' little, wrhen money was essential, and when the borrowers weren’t exactly conscious of the import of their borrowing. Even so, Europe does owTe, morally and legally, the full sum of her debts. They are an obligation of nation to nation, and involve national integrity and honor.
Totals Relatively Small
Moreover, the totals, although they seem large, are relatively small. England’s annual payment amounts to but five per cent of her Budget expenses; sixteen cents per Italian per year would cover Italy’s installment; France finds that four per cent of her annual exports can provide payment; while Germany can produce in one year enough to pay the whole debt. In terms of our own country, cancellation, demanding payment by the American public, would mean but an extra tax two dollars per head, each year until 1984. Practically all the nations concerned spend many times the amount involved annually for armaments and national defense.
Thus we find that the pertinent question is not “Should Europe Pay?” or “Can Europe Pay?” but rather. “How Can Europe Pay?” And there arises a dilemma.
impeachable example of William Butter Yeats’ theatrical generalship, much would be done for the crystallization of an American drama.
Physical Ed. Men to Coach Interhall Basketball Teams
The coaches assigned for the various interhall basketball squads are as follows:
Heavyweights: Blaine, (Sorin); Hayes (Corby) ; Brancheau (Walsh); Chapman (Badin); Jehle (Howard) ;
K. of G. BALL
JANUARY 20
Levins (Carroll); Novak (Brownson) ; Morrissey (Morrissey); Clark (Lyons); Holleran (St. Edwards); Curry (Alumni); Gru (Dillon); Howard (Off-Campus); Golden (Freshman).
Lightweights: Nulty (Sorin); French (Corby; Wietig (Walsh); Leonard (Badin); Dugan (Howard); Witucki (Carroll) ; Hafron (Brownson) ; McGrath (Morrissey); O’Dea (Lyons); McCue (St. Edwards); O’Connor (Alumni); Kennedy (Dillon) ; Sepe (Off-Campus); Seekley (Freshmen).
THEATER TALK
(Continued from Page 17)
Palais Royale
the one dollar and a quarter stand, threw up a battery of plays, many of which are perennial, and without particular sensation remained for four months. Each year the Abbey Players come to New York, and. each year a number of American critics use the company as an example of the advantage repertorial—of the lasting and quiet charm of the theatre when void of the high pressure star system with the business of ticket buying— of the number of plays America could own up to as purely American and worthy of a native repertory presentation. (This last demand is elaborated upon by the marking of Eva La Galliehne’s successful repertory of a foreign and non-Yankee variety in New York as a good thing but not the answer.)
If the American theatre could reconnoitre its advantages after the un-
Music by
ACE BRIGADE and His Virginians
FEE	DANCING
$3 per Couple
8:30 to 12:00
January 13, 1933
Thirty-one
Prof. Hoyer Is Elected To Boy Scout Council
Nebraska Boys Defy High Costs of Living
Prof. Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, was honored by election to the National Council, Boy Scouts of America, at the Annual Meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Council Tuesday night.
Prof. Hoyer has been prominently identified with Scout work in South Bend for the past nine years, serving on the local executive board since 1928 and promoting the organization of troops under Catholic auspices.
Since 1930 Hoyer has served as representative of the local scout council on the board of directors of the South Bend Community Chest, to which position he was reelected for 1933 at the meeting Tuesday.
University Theater Will Enact “Richelieu” in May
The University Theatre Committee recently announced that it has selected Edward Bulwer Lytton’s “Richelieu” as the play to be given the week prior to the Commencement. Mr. Albert L. Doyle, Department of Speech, who performed so admirably in “Abraham Lincoln” will play the leading role.
Professor Kelly, in charge of dramatics, would like those students who are interested in acting, to read “Richelieu,” learn the part which they think that they are capable of portraying, and report for the try-outs. Positions in the cast are open to everyone. Copies of the play may be procured at the Library or from Professor Kelly, gratis.
And Someone Told Us That it’s a Slow World
I"
New York—The New York Times has listed the five fastest speeds of man as follows:
Seaplane—408.8 miles per hour; Lieut. G. H. Stainforth.
Airplane—284.7 miles per hour; Capt. L. R. Bayles.
Automobile — 253.986 miles per hour; Sir Malcom Campbell.
Ice Boat—140.6 miles per hour; Lish Price.
Motor Boat—124.86 miles per hour; Gar Wood.
“Swift as an Indian,” it might be added, is no longer an apt simile.
Lincoln, Nebr.—What ought to be the record for economy on the part of college students has been set at the University of Nebraska- by Charles Warner, senior in business administration, and Hubert Heigele, senior in engineering.
The two, cooking all their own meals, are gaining weight on a diet which costs them only $3 a month.
They believe their food is wholesome and that it is good for them they prove by going in for athletics, one for swimming, the other for wrestling.
Stew Twice A Week
Twice a week the pair makes a thick stew, onions and potatoes. This is frozen and reheated as it is needed. And here is how the two make bread: They buy raw wheat and have it ground whole at the College of Agriculture. To this they add two cans of baking powder, sixteen pounds of raisins and six cups of sugar. This mixture is put away in a sack to be used as needed. When bread is needed ten cups of the mixture is taken out, mixed with a can of condensed milk, three tablespoons of lard, salt and water to make a thick batter. Then it is put into the oven.
Apples and raw cabbage are used to supplement the diet, on which the students expect to hold out until graduation.
Prof. Groom Will Present Organ Concert in City
Professor Willard L. Groom will give an organ concert in St. Paul’s Memorial Church on La Porte and West Colfax streets, at four p. m. on Sunday, January 15. The program will be as follows: Two choral preludes by Karg-Elert, Germany’s most prominent composer of choral music at the present time. An arrangement of DeBussy’s prelude, “The Blessed Damozel,” by Palmer Christian, organist of the University of Michigan. The “Second Concert Study” of Pietro Yon, organist of St. Patrick’s in New York City. The finale of “The First Symphony” by Louis Vieme, organist of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris.
This is one of a series of concerts given for the benefit of the unemployed.
Check these points:
Workmanship Service
Convenience
QAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
<1 At Notre Danae you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
<JSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
»
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
MARQUETTE WINS
(Continued from Page 21)
star, made four baskets at crucial points in the game. He, Morstadt, and Kukla were the standouts for Marquette. Morstadt made four field goals and six out of eight free throw attempts. Kukla, rangy center, made four out of five free throws and a basket from the floor before he left for too many personals.
Game Rough
The game was a rough and ready contest throughout. Men were pushed, slapped and knocked down all through the embroglio during which twentyeight fouls were committed. Ed Krause and Joe Voegele for Notre Dame and Kukla for Marquette were sent from the floor for too heavy a violation of the personal foul rule.
It was the old story of the good, fast, smart, big man being better than the good, fast, smart, little man. With the exception of Ed Krause, the Notre Dame players were dwarfed by their husky opponents from Marquette. They used the high looping pass on offense which was beyond the reach of the shorter Notre Dame players.
Height Aids Victors
The Notre Dame men couldn’t intercept or break up the offense because they couldn’t touch the ball. Also, the big boys from Wisconsin recovered the majority of the under basket balls and kept the ball down in Notre Dame territory most of the evening.
Both teams wTere very accurate from the free throw mark. Notre Dame made 12 free throws out of 19 attempts for an evening’s average of .630. Marquette tossed in 13 out of 18 tries for an average of .722.
Notre Dame (32) 4FG
Alberts, If...........2
Voegele, If ......... 0
Jordan, rf............1
Krause, c............ 5
Baldwin, rg ..........2
Crowe, 1g.............0
Holland, c .......... 0
FT FTA PF Pts.
0	0	14
2	2	4	2
2	4	0	4
4	7	4	14
2	2	16
2	4	3	2
0	0	0	0
Totals .............10	12	19	13	32
Marquette (35) Corwin, If ......... Morstadt, rf........ Gorychka, If........ Kukla, c' .......... Fiorani, c .........
Mullen c............
Zummach, rg.........
Konzani, 1g.........
FG	FT	FTA PF	Pts.
0	0	0	0	0
4	6	8	2	14
0	2	2	1	2
1	4	5	4	6
0	0	0	1	0
10 0 12 1113	3
4 0 2 3 8
Totals .............11	13	18	15	35
Referee, John Schommer, (Chicago) ; um-
pire, Travnieek, (Armour Tech).
-FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FTA— free throws attempted;; PF—personal fouls;
PTS—points.
On Down The Line
Fred MacBeth^^^__^_
THERE WILL BE NO HORSE RACING IN THE UNITED STATES THIS YEAR between April 1 and April 15 ... in the past FOUR YEARS “SUNNY JIM FITZSIMMONS has trained horses that have won a total of $1,123,348 . . . JACK SHEA, Olympic speed skating champion, is a student at DARTMOUTH . . . for the first time in 67 years women have been allowed to play on the ROYAL WIMBLEDON (Eng.) GOLF COURSE.
Several players in the NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE are from England . . . they are “RED” BEATTIE of the Boston Bruins; CHUCK GARDNER and HOLMES of the Chicago Hawks; ALECK SMITH of the OTTAWA Senators and AIKEN-HEAD of the RANGERS ... the BROOKLINE (Mass.) COUNTRY CLUB reports a waiting list of 776 . . . almost as large as the membership of 875 . . . UPSET was the only horse that ever defeated MAN O’WAR ... in 1872 a horse called NICKAJACK became frightened at the post and ran away for three miles ... it was brought back, won the race and paid $1,178 for a $5 pool.
JOCKEY RAYMOND “SONNY” WORKMAN earned over $70 000 in 1930 . . . CORNELIUS V. WHITNEY paid him a salary of $15,000 and 10% of the earnings of horses . he rode . . . LOU LITTLE, football coach at COLUMBIA, gets an estimated salary of $17,500 . . . the highest for a gridiron coach in the United States . . . J. G. SHERLOCK recently made the 150-yard 17th. hole of the Aldeburgh (Suffolk. Eng.) course in one . . . for the EIGHTH TIME.
❖
In the past twenty-two years 69 dead-heats have occurred on American race tracks . . . three generations of WHITNEYS have led the moneywinning list nine times since 1903 ... at SYDNEY (Australia) April 16, 1909, forty-one horses started in a race and sixteen of them fell . . . LIONEL HITCHMAN, defense player for the BOSTON BRUIN HOCKEY TEAM, suffered a strange injury during a recent game in CHICAGO . . . he received a small cut on the white of his eyeball which required two stitches ... at one hundred dollars apiece.
After College WHAT?
Advertising?
Frederick C. Kendall, editor of Advertising 8t Selling, says, "Advertising is still young. Yet it is already a vital part of every important industry. The professional advertising man must be not only a thoughtfid student of human nature, but also a student of all American business.”
"OPARKING” ideas are the life O blood of advertising. That’s why advertising men, as well as college men, turn to a pipe. For a good pipe with the right tobacco is man’s first-aid to clear thinking and wisdom. As for the "right tobacco” — that’s Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.*
Just one puff will tell you why. It’s that truly individual blend of fine old hurleys—a blend you find only in Edgeworth. Once you try Edgeworth, nothing less will do. Want to try before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
•A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite srooke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—150 pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
Phone Pffi“
| Residence 3-4041
DR. E. S. LUCAS
Dentist'
X-ray
Expert Eye Service
Glasses Properly Fitted at Moderate Prices
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900
223 S. Michigan St.
•	Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan „ - (10 to 12 m. Hours (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST Dentists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
			
* r	Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
e	Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741 DR. LEO J. QUINLAN D e n t i s t 514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
*			
	„	(10 to 11:30 a. m. HoWfS |2 to 4 p. m.		—-
	DR. H. BOYD-SNEE		Space Reserved — _
	Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat		
	716 J. M. S.. Building	South Bend, Indiana		
The Tobacco Crop may be Short this Tear
a
but that can’t affect Chesterfield—why?
© 1933, ■Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Production, of tobaccos usable for cigarettes or ^roll your own.”
U. S. crop (average, 5 years, 1927-31) 1,091,265,750 lbs.
U. S. crop (Govt, estimate, 1932) . . ^751,601,000 lbs.
Estimated shortage, 1932 crop .	339,664,750 lbs.
people know it
The manufacturer of good cigarettes knows that he has to carry on hand at all times a large stock of the right kinds of tobacco from several years’ crops.
The domestic tobaccos are kept in large hogsheads, each containing about 1000 pounds, and are allowed to age for two full years—nature’s method of curing the tobaccos. Something like . ageing wine.
Liggett & Myers has about 4^ miles of warehouses used for storing leaf tobacco, to make sure that its products are uniform and are as good as can be made.
Smokers can be assured that Chesterfield will be absolutely uniform—the same at all times. The cigarette that’s milder—the cigarette that tastes better!

I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR	JANUARY 20
15 CTS. A COPY	1933
Does Your Budget Include This Important Market?
Now comes the new year and a new advertising budget. Probably yours isn’t going to be so large this time—and we can understand why. But before you slash appropriations look around you at the successful companies who continue their contacts with the public.
♦	♦ ♦ ♦
And when you have decided upon the correct amount, CAREFULLY select your medium. Now, more than ever, every dollar in your appropriation must pull more than its weight in returns.
♦	♦ ♦ ♦
We ask that you consider the SCHOLASTIC. Space in this live news weekly contacts a compact market of nearly three thousand students who depend upon South Bend merchants for their needs, and does it so economically that you can’t afford to leave us out of your budget. A call at 3-1121 will bring a representative to your store.
^he Scholastic
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY		
		
Phone	4-5661	X-ray | Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS D entis t 702 J. M. S. Building '	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians	' Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building	, Jefferson and Michigan n (10 to 12 m. Hours	, |3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST De ntists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
-	Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741 DR. LEO J. QUINLAN D e n t i s t 514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
			
	(10 to 11:30 a. m. Hours |2 to 4 p.m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		Space Reserved
Two
The Scholastic
(Eliza Allen Starr)
(Cuts Courtesy
Dome of 1932)
“O Notre Dame
Thou Beauteous Place ...
^4
.T
“The purple air, the misty hills;
The meadotvs, green with hidden rills;
The grove, that screens from curious gaze Its sacred meditative zcays;
The lake beyond, its placid eye Blue as the arch of vernal sky;
The dome, and chapel spires, that claim Our Lady’s favor, with her name;
How, like a thought of peace, the ivhole Takes calm possession of the soul!”