Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222 % South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Glasses promptly repaired to avoid delay in your school work.
MUST BE IN CHICAGO BRIGHT and EARLY?
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
There’s only one sure way to make a Chicago appointment on time. . . and that way is the South Shore Line way.
SOUTH SHORE LINE WILL GET YOU THERE RIGHT ON THE MINUTE/
South Shore Line electric trains depart from South Bend every hour on the hour (Ft. Dearborn limited leaves at 6:50 a.m.) speeding to Chicago’s loop in 125 minutes. You can always depend on the South Shore Line to get you there in safety and comfort and on time.
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
SOuthsehore
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
*
They patronize us!

COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
During football season we find journalistic endeavor reaching its heights (or is it depths?). Sports writers delve deeply into the intricacies of expression to unearth new ways of describing in flowery terms the events which transpire upon the football field. They have learned that the most effective method is by comparison to war. The following is an excerpt from an editorial which came to us from the San Francisco “Daily News” via the University of California “Daily.”
“On a recent Saturday the football teams of Ohio State and Notre Dame Universities met in Columbus, Ohio, and to read what some of the sports writers had to say the next day you would imagine that for deathless heroism and supernatural visitations the affair eclipsed a combination of Leonidas at Thermopylae, Custer’s Last Stand, and the Angels of Mons.
“Hearken to some of the wordage from frenzied typewriters: ‘Notre Dame came out of the maw of hell to beat Ohio State today.’
“The maw of hell, eh? Isn’t this football business supposed to be a game? Or are they playing it with hand grenades and liquid fire nowadays?
“ ‘A great Notre Dame team that Rockne would have loved, a team that could rise to magnificent, incredible j heights of courage, today struck down ’ the Scarlet Scourge. ‘Be with us today, Rock, be with us today! And Rockne was there!
“The ‘Scarlet Scourge’ forsooth! What have we here, anyhow—a reincarnation of the murderous hordes of Attila and Genghis Khan, or a bunch of likeable American boys playing a , game? ‘And magnificent, incredible heights of courage’ . . . well, Heaven knows that the boys who play football have plenty of the old stomach, and go in and take their knocks with praise-worthy stoicism ; but you couldn’t use much finer language than that to describe the charge of Pickett’s division at Gettysburg.
“And about those ghostly visitations: are hysterical writers going to be invoking the shades of deceased coaches every time a football team wins a game?
“Now this is all a good deal less important, of course, but it is a symptom of a kind of delirium that descends upon the Nation every so > often, and all things considered this isn’t very good for us.
“College football is a game. It is played by a group of boys who like to get a little sport in their spare time while they are getting an education (that is, in theory, at least)
(Continued on Page 3)
The Scholastic
Two
CALENDAR
Friday, November 29
“Scholastic of the Air,” from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Scholastic Staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p.m., Editorial Offices.
Saturday, November 30
Basketball, Notre Dame versus Albion, Clinic game, 8:00 p.m., Gym.
. Sunday, December 1
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; meeting of officers of Knights of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh Hall clubrooms.
Monday, December 2
Lecture by Dr. Thomas Kinsman, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; meeting of Economic Round-Table, South Bend, 6:00 p.m.; Aeronautical club meeting, 7:45 p.m., Engineering bldg.
Tuesday, December 3
Lecture by Dr. Frederick Kinsman, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall; meeting, Cleveland club, 7:45, Carroll hall recreation rooms.
Wednesday, December Jk
Basketball, double-header, Notre Dame versus Kalamazoo and St. Mary’s, gym., first game starts 7:00 p.m.; lecture by Dr. Frederick Kinsman, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall.
Thursday, December 5
Spanish club meeting, 7:45, Carroll hall recreation rooms.
RADIO PROGRAM
Monday afternoon: The Man Who Knows. A lightly educational question and answer program.
Tuesday afternoon: Musical program.
Tuesday evening: Lecture by a member of the faculty.
Wednesday afternoon: Student paper on some current topic.
Thursday afternoon: Jack Robinson’s Sport Talk. All American selections.
Thursday evening: Faculty lecture.
Friday afternoon: The Scholastic of the Air. News summary from the columns of The Scholastic.
Note: Afternoon programs go on the air at 3:15; evening programs at 7:30.
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from Page 2)
and it is somewhat less epoch-making and world-shaking than battle, murder and sudden death.
“By getting ourselves all wound up to a razzle-dazzle of emotion and strewing the landscape with high-powered adjectives, we commit a profound injustice to the boys themselves. We hand them a false set of values and thereby do our part to handicap them for life. Let’s take our football with a little sanity.”
November 2 9, 1935
CONVERTS BEGINNERS-
FILTER-COOLED
CONVINCES VETERANS!
tobacco.
IDEAL GIFT!
RECOMMENDED BY
MILLIONS OFUSERS
latest SHAPES
tbcntlk
(frupticeoji
FINEST
V ■ BRIAR ■ MONET
CAN BUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
&
Listen to the
EDICO
(PATENTED)
Thia simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeepsiuicea and flakes inFilter andontof mouth.
Prevents tongue bite,raw mouth, wet heel, bad I odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand
Scholastic

Friday at 3:15 p. m.
Over WSBT
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS
Little, But What a Punch Is Behind It!
Three
Net mentor, George K eogan, will begin his thirteenth season as Irish basketball coach tomorrow evening in the local fieldhouse. Twenty-five hard contests lie ahead for Coach Keogan and his men.
The 1935 - 36 Notre Dame quintet has Martin Joseph Peters of Peoria, Illinois, a senior in Arts and- Letters, and John Francis Ford of Indianapolis, Indiana, a senior in Arts and Letters serving as Co-Captains.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
November 29, 1935
No. 9
ROOSEVELT RECEPTION PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
Musical Units Perform
During the Past Week
Last Friday evening, the University Band entertained old time monogram men and members of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley with a short program in South Bend at the Notre Dame club’s smoker. Previous to the smoker, the band was photographed Friday afternoon in front of the University Library by Harry Elmore of the South Bend News-Times.
On Saturday between the halves of the Southern California game, members of the band played the “Ave Maria” in honor of Joe Sullivan, deceased captain of this year’s football team. The organization was also honored at this time by being conducted through the music of the “Victory March” by its composer, the Rev. Michael Shea.
From the Boston Post of Nov. 19, come the following extracts from a story written by Bill Cunningham, of that paper: “The Notre Dame band is a mammoth organization. It’s at least twice the size of all the bands in this section but Harvard’s. . . But here it was, a grand looking set of musicians, trimly dressed in naval uniforms. . . Its battery of drums rolled a stirring assembly, the deep throb of the basses beating a perfect march tempo. . . the big band of the visitors marched half the length of the gridiron to the Army gridiron song, broken suddenly into a confusing conglameration of apparently aimlessly wandering individuals, but all at once stood in perfect order again, spelling out now the word “Army,” and still playing the Army song.”
Last Saturday morning, previous to the Southern California game, the University Glee Club broadcast for 15 minutes on a coast-to-coast hookup of the Columbia Broadcasting System from the University radio studio in the Engineering Building. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, gave a short talk during the broadcast. Tribute (Continued on Page 22)
Capacity Crowd to Attend
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
Plans for the reception of President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the Univer-siyt on Dec. 9, were taking definite
Copyright, Harris and Ewing
President Franklin D. Roosevelt Notre Dame awaits his visit.
shape this week according to announcement by the committee on arrangements. During the celebration of Philippine’s Day, his Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, archbishop of Chicago, will preside. Carlos P. Romulo, Philippine Islands publisher, will receive an honorary degree as will President Roosevelt.
Prominent persons from all over the Midwest are requesting invitations to this great celebration. Because of the limited seating capacity of the University gymnasium the actual attendance at the ceremonies has been restricted to 7,000. However, two national radio networks will carry a broadcast of the entire program, in addition to the broadcast over WSBT of South Bend.
Originally the celebration of Philip-(Continued on Page 23)
Freshman Hall Winner of Decorations Award
By Harold Williams
Freshman Hall was declared the winner for the second consecutive year of the S. A. C. cup for the best decorated hall. The decision of the judges was unanimous. The cup was awarded to the Rev. Maurice S. Rigley, C.S.C., rector of Freshman, Monday by Gene Tobin, S. A. C. chairman of arrangements. Badin Hall and Morrissey Hall were awarded honorable mention by the judges.
The winning decoration consisted of a lighthouse with a revolving beacon which flashed pictures of Rockne, Gipp, Joe Sullivan, and Layden. A reef symbolized Southern California, and a sail boat with a dummy football player represented Notre Dame. A sign overhead read, “Follow the Beacon and Clear the Reef!” The windows of the hall were colored gold and blue and the words “WELCOME TROJANS” and “WELCOME ALUMNI” were pasted in the windows.
Thomas J. Hogan was chairman of the committee. Designer was John F. Wade. The art work was done by Robert Schultz. The committee consisted of Frank Campbell, James Clif-
Rev. Maurice Rigley, C.S.C.
His hall is cup conscious.
ford, Frank George, Charles Hayes, and George Plain. Hal Stine was in charge of Freshman for the S. A. C.
The final pep meeting of the year was held immediately after supper last Friday night. The student body followed the band from the dining hall to Brownson field where they observed the fireworks display of 70 pieces which was sent up from Car-•	(Continued on Page 6)
November 2 9, 1935
Five
COYNE CONDUCTS DEBATE TRIALS;
FINAL TRYOUTS WILL BE DEC. 2, 3
Campus Marks Anniversary Of Founder's First Mass
Schedule to be Issued Soon
Prof. William J. Coyne, varsity debating coach, announced that the final try-outs for the varsity squad will be held in the Law Building, Monday and Tuesday, December 2 and 3.
Eighteen men out of the thirty-one who reported to Coach Coyne have survived the preliminary try-outs, and from this number will come the varsity debating squad of twelve men.
The final try-outs will call foi' a main speech of six minutes and a four minute rebuttal on the question that Congress should have the power’ to over-rule the Supreme Court decisions rendering any Congressional act unconstitutional.
Coach Coyne will issue the varsity debating schedule within the next two or three weeks, but it is understood that the schedule will include traditional rivals.
The schedule for the try-outs is listed as follows:
Monday, December 2, 4:00 P. M.
Affirmative — Gene Malloy, John Marbach, W. Prendergast.
Negative—Clifford Brown, Martin Husing, Richard Meier.
Tuesday, December 3, 4:00 P. M.
Affirmative—John S c he m m e r , Charles. McDonough, Robery Heywood.	,
Negative — Arthur Sandusky, Paul Thompson, Dave Flynn.
' Tuesday, December 3, 7:45 P. M.
Affirmative — Norbert Aleksis, Edward Boyle, John Heywood.
Negative — Tom Reardon, James Burke, Robert Schmelzle.
A Notre Dame landmark—the log chapel.
R. I. P. . . .
Funeral services were held Tuesday morning in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., for Richard Sullivan who died on the eve of the Southern California game as the result of injuries received in an interhall football game on November 17. Rev. Thomas A. McAvoy, C.S.C., represented the University at the services.	.
An impressive silent tribute was paid Dick Sullivan, Joe Sullivan, and Richard Powers, during the intermission at the half time in Saturday’s game with Southern California. Fifty thousand people, who packed the stadium, stood silent in prayer for the three boys.
Richard Sullivan was the son of J. R. Sullivan, advertising manager of a Poughkeepsie, N. Y. newspaper. Richard was born in Poughkeepsie on Dec. 30, 1915. . He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1933 as a premedical student in the College of Science. He transferred to the College of Arts and Letters last year.
DECORATIONS AWARDED (Continued from Page 5)
tier field. The rally, held in the gymnasium, was the biggest of the year. Coach Elmer Layden and assistant coach Joe Boland spoke in behalf of the coaches. The other speakers were Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University; Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C.; John W. Eg-geman, ’01; Frank E. Hering, ’97; Judge Patrick Nelson, ’88; and J. Fred Powers, ’99.
Pilney, Shakespeare, Layden, From-hart, Pfefferle, Church, and Pojman also spoke.
■	By Louis Da Pra
A historical landmark continually re-visited by returning graduates is the log chapel to the rear of the University library, which was completed in 1906 as a replica of an earlier chapel built by the Indian missionary, Rev. Stephen T. Badin, in 1830.
It is the site of deep significance to generations of Notre Dame men
The Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
First president of Notre Dame.
and St. Mary’s women who have solemnly taken the vows of matrimony within its walls, on the very scene of the spiritual cradle of Notre Dame, whose story may be traced back in history to colonial days.
Ninety-three years ago, Nov. 30, 1842, a young priest recently arrived from Mans, France, celebrated the first mass said at Notre Dame in the rude log church built in 1830 by the Rev. Stephen Badin on Lake St. Mary.
The young priest was Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University, who, inspired by the sainted Brute, first Bishop of • Vincennes, came to America accompanied by seven Brothers. The group passed the winter at St. Peter, Indiana, but in the following year were granted by the Right Rev. C. de la Hailandiere, second Bishop of Vincennes, a section of land on Lake St. Mary, a hundred miles north, for the purpose of establishing a college within two years.
On Nov. 26, 1842, Father Sorin arrived at Notre Dame; on the 30th he said the first Mass. The University was established on the grounds of Ste. Marie des Lacs, the center of the Indiana Indian missions of Fathers De Seille, Petit, and Badin.
Notre Dame can boast that her spiritual lineage can be traced through the proto-priest of America, Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, to the first of American bishops.
Bishop Carroll invited the Sulpi-(Continued on Page 22)
The Scholastic
Six
Three New Books Written
By Members of Faculty
"THE WORLD WAITS" TO BE GIVEN IN WASHINGTON HALL DEC. 15,16
By Paul Foley
Two new pieces of fiction and a text-book on English have recently been added to the literary output of members of the University faculty. The Mastery of Tess, another of the intimate stories of Irish life, is the newest work of Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of Ave Maria. Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., is the author of Tivistecl Trails, a volume of juv-
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. Writes new English text.
enile fiction. Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., and Professor John Frederick collaborate in the authorship of Reading For Writing, a new text in the field of creative writing.
The Mastery of Tess, Father Carroll’s latest work, lives up to the literary name its author has created for himself. The tale is laid in Ardagh County, Ireland, prior to the time of the Irish Free State. While the work displays all the finely etched characterization of the Irish people that Father Carroll has exhibited in his earlier work, it is in addition an interesting story well told. Critics have placed The Mastery of Tess as a worthy successor to Patch and The Bog.
Twisted Trails presents Fa t h e r Thomas Lahey working in a very difficult literary field—the production of juvenile fiction. The difficulties of understanding and presenting child characters are well handled, and the story of Jimmy Bentley and his sister Mary should have a wide appeal.
In the text book field neither Father Leo Ward nor Professor Frederick is a new-comer, but their collaboration on the text Reading for Writing, is said to prove a genuine advance in
November 2 9, I935
Villagers' Dance . . .
The Notre Dame Villagers’ Club annual Thanksgiving Dance will be held at Erskine Country Club tomorrow night, according to announcements made by President John Fara-baugh of the Villagers’ Club. Chairman Ted Prekowitz has secured the services of Gordon Larson and his orchestra.
Tickets are being sold for §1.10. Dancing will be from nine until twelve o’clock. Patrons for the affair include: Professor and Mrs. Maurice Pettit, Professor and Mrs. Vincent Fagan, Professors Schubmehl, Paul Fenlon, Stanley Price, Lee Flatley, and Louis Hasley.
KINSMAN LECTURE
Dr. Frederick Kinsman, Jr., famed author and lecturer, will conduct a series of lectures in Washington Hall beginning on Dec. 2 and extending to Dec. 11.
Dr. Kinsman is a graduate of Oxford University, and has studied at Berkley Divinity School, Washington College, and Seton Hall college. In 1919 he resigned as bishop of the Protestant Episcopal church of Delaware to enter the Catholic faith.
Dr. Kinsman has written several books among which are Principles of Anglicanism, Outlines of Church History, Prayers for the Dead, Salve Mater, and Americanism and Catholicism.
RADIO LECTURE
Clarence Menser, production director for the NBC in Chicago, will talk to those interested in radio next Wednesday evening, December 9, in the 'campus radio studio in the Engineering Building. He will speak on production and general work in the field of radio. Mr. Menser has charge of such productions as “The First Night-er” program and “Grand Hotel.”
the teaching of advanced creative writing. The work is a compilation and analysis of several different literary styles which have been used by classic writers, with pointers to prospective writers on how to successfully incorporate these methods into their own work.
The Mastery of Tess and Twisted Trails were both published by The Ave Maria Press, while Reading for Writing was published by F. S. Crofts and Company.
Mansfield Will Play Lead
By John Hurley
Opening nights will come to Notre Dame Sunday and Monday evenings, December 15 and 16, when the University Theatre will present the play, “The World Waits,” in Washington Hall.
Joe Mansfield, of radio fame, will act the male lead of Captain Heartly, leader of the expedition lost at the South Pole. Kenneth Brice, chief aviator of the lost party, will be impersonated by Dick Baker, a veteran of local stage production.
The part of Dr. McKinsey will be
Maurice Quinn ’E’ll be ’Aiukins.
portrayed by John LaDuca, while Jack Scott is cast in the role of Burroughs, the radio operator. Frank Carroll will play the part of Collins, the newspaper man with the expedition. Maurice Quinn is scheduled to play the part of Hawkins.
Others in the cast are Francis McDonald as Chips Donoghus, the ship’s carpenter, John Gorman as Alex McGregor, Ralph Capone as Jenks, the ship’s cook, and John Brassell as Royce.
Art Jarrett and Bill Ellis are being considered for the role of Kelley, a member of the expedition. The minor parts of the two professors and the dog drivers have not yet been filled.
Rehearsals for the production are being held nightly and on Sunday afternoons. It is expected that the cast will be molded into such perfection by the time set for the first performance that the University Theatre, under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle, will be able to present to the student body one of the finest performances seen at Notre Dame in several years.
ATTENTION
Sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters, who intend to major in Journalism in their junior year, are warned that “Journalism 2” is a prerequisite. At the time of preregistration for the second semester of this year such sophomores must definitely inform the Dean’s office of their intention.
Seven
Hall Debaters Active
In Past Week's Tilts
By Gregory Byrnes
The race for the championship of the interhall debating league is rapidly approaching a climax. At pres ent there remain hut three teams in the first division, namely, St. Edward’s, Morrissey, and Dillon. St. Edward’s will meet Morrissey tonight and the -winning team will meet Dillon on Dec. 6. The race in the second division has narrowed down to two teams. On Monday night Sorin defeated Corby, the judge being the Rev. Thomas Kelley, C.S.C.
The Walsh Hall debating team, composed of William Bowes, Dave Flynn, and Bob Burke, defeated Badin on Tuesday afternoon, the Reverend Filliam Bolger, C.S.C., acting as judge.
Sorin and Walsh -will now meet to decide the championship of this division. The winning team in each division -will meet in a debate to be held at St. Mary’s sometime between Dec. 6 and 13.
The past two weeks have been busy ones for the league. On Monday, Nov. 18, Morrissey won from Brownson in the opinion of the judges, John Heywood, Eugene Malloy, and Mr. Ronay. On Wednesday, Nov. 20, Sorin defeated Carroll. The judge for this contest was the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C. Two debates were held on Thursday, Nov. 21. Corby defeated Badin, and Walsh secured a decision over Alumni. Richard Mier judged the former debate and Mr. Coyne the latter. Professor Earl Langwell acted as critic judge on Friday, Nov. 22, when Lyons went down to defeat before the eloquence of St. Edward’s.
A summary of the positions of the various hall teams at the end of the
’’about the camPus
Arthur Francis Huber, senior class treasurer from Fort Atkinson, Iowa, (population 400), won a hard-fought victory for class president in high school and headed the largest class in history, (8). . . .
Ancestors fought with Napoleon’s armies . . . Has all the latest books on him . . . Belongs to the ‘Book-of-the-Month’ club and with roomie Bob Sullivan, probably constitutes the. most literary room on the campus. . .
Aiming for B.S. in Accounting . . . Keeps average hovering around 90. . . . Dislikes bananas; has read all of
Thomas Hardy and thrills to “The Rose in Her Hair” . . . Uses Yankee Girl tobacco in true baseball style . . . Can hit a dime at ten paces . . . Started playing days in N. East Iowa circuit (not affiliated with the CowPasture League) . . . On N. D. varsitysquad and plays anything . . . Ended up pitching last year . . . Can break 80 on the golf course. . . .
Card game Pitch takes up his spare time. Retires every night right with the lights and if roomie wishes to stay up he freezes in Art’s frigid ventilation system . . . Christmas vacation holds prospects for a tete-a-tete with a “Viv.”. . .
Is a member of the sweat shirt brigade in Howard and plays a mean ‘free-for-all’ on the touch-ball field. . . . A small town boy who made good. . . .
How Students Would Pick Teams for Rose Bowl Game
This is the eighth in a series of snap-shot interviews with students about campus topics. This week the question is:	,
“What team zvould you select for the Rose Bowl?”
Anthony Gomes, Carroll: “Minnesota. Big Ten officials should abandon the post-season rule to permit the West to play the national champs, a team with everything.”
Vic Petro, Lyons: “Notre Dame. The best team, with the best coach, representing the best school in the United States and a great drawing card to boot.”
James Blunt, Badin: “Slippery Rock Teachers. It makes .me sick to see people pass up a real good team simply because it represents a bush league college. Here is an undefeated squad which can give any major league school a hard tussle, and furthermore in Cookson they have a back who rivals Berwanger and Pilney.”
Paul Anderson, Badin: “If neither Duquesne nor Notre Dame go, I would like to see Southern Methodist. It would establish a precedent, and prove my contention that with Wilson and Shuford this outfit is three touchdowns better than any coast team.”
Joseph Nigro, Walsh: “I would like to see our team go out to the Coast for this classic. The record we have made this year considering our schedule can be favorably compared to any other team that is in the running for the honor. Besides consider what a drawing card we are wherever we play.”
Julius Rocca, Walsh: “My choice is
William Bowes -Walsh’s silver-tongued orator.
second round is as follows. Each team has debated twice and two defeats eliminates a team.
.	Division One
Dillon; Won 2; Freshman: Lost 2 (eliminated); Morrissey: Won 2;
Lyons: Lost 2 (eliminated); Brownson: Lost 2 (eliminated); St. Edward’s: Won 2.
Division Two
Walsh: Won 2; Sorin: Won 1; Lost 1; Alumni: Lost 2 (eliminated); Corby: Won 2; Badin: Won 1, Lost 1; Carroll: Lost 2 (eliminated).
Julius Rocca
Why not Notre Dame?
the team which beat the best outfit ' in the midwest, the best in the east, had the toughest schedule, drew the greatest number of fans, the most spectacular, the gamest eleven in the
(Continued on Page 22)
The Scholastic
Eight
From Files Of The Scholastic
DEC. 2, 1893—Mr. C. Roby denied himself the pleasure of eating his Thanksgiving dinner at home in order to participate in the game. It would be hard to imagine the outcome had he not been with us.
DEC. 9—The sleighing during the past week has been fine. Last Sunday the members of the Varsity elev-ne enjoyed a similar treat.
DEC. 16—The Temperance Society at its last meeting admitted five new members. Its roll now shows ninety-five members.
DEC. 9 — The members of Br. Paul’s table were treated to a sleigh- • ride on last Tuesday afternoon. Many thanks!
DEC. 16—We did not imagine that the fame of the Carrollite’s football talent had reached our neighboring city of South Bend; but it seems it has, as .Captain Klees was unable to arrange a game with the high school. Too bad! Why don’t they get a team ?
DEC 16—The inventive genius has been working on college yells of late, and the following is one of his productions. Its merit is apparent: (Ed. Note: Say it out loud!)
Razoo, Kazoo! Jimmy, blow your bazoo!
Wahoo, Rahoo! Rip, Zip, Bam!
Hi-yi, Ki-yi! N-o-t-r-e D-a-m-e !
CELEBRITIES
Notre Dame’s final football game of the season with Southern California attracted among the 50,000 spectators many prominent people. Among those present were the Rev. Michael A. Shea, composer of the music for the Notre Dame Victory March, Miss Margaret Wightman, daughter of the founder of the University Art Gallery, Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, Frank Walker, director of the National Emergency Council.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gosden ( of Amos & Andy), three members of the University’s first football team: Patrick Nelson, E. A. Sawkins, and Colonel Frank Fehr, Christy Walsh, chairman of the All-American football board, Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Firestone, Jr., Mrs. Townsend Netcher (the former Constance Talmadge), Judges Neil Harrington and Philip Sullivan of Chicago, State’s Attorney Thomas J. Courtney of Chicago.
Frank Thomas, Alabama coach, Glenn S. “Pop” Warner, Temple coach, “Jock” Sutherland, coach of Pittsburgh, Senator Frank McNichols, “Spike” McAdams, Judge Patrick Nelson, and Commander H. B. Grow of Chicago.
Colorful Ceremonies Mark
First "Old Timers" Meet
The Old Timers who returned to the University for the week-end of the Southern California game, under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, were given a banquet in the Lay Faculty dining hall last Friday night. Fifty persons were
The Hon. John W. Eggeman “Big John” stole the shotv.
present. Following the banquet and the pep meeting which the Old Timers subsequently attended, they were entertained at a smoker of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley then being held at the Jefferson Plaza in South Bend.
These former wearers of Notre Dame Monograms were further hon-
IMPORTANT NOTICE
All lay members of the faculty, all Seniors and other students eligible for a degree will participate in the Philippine Day ceremonies in cap and gown.
Prospective graduates will be measured for their caps and gowns on next Monday, December 2, in the Dome room in Walsh Hall basement. The hours: 9 toll:30 in the morning and 1 to 4 in the afternoon. There will be no other opportunity to have these measurements taken.
It is to be noted that prospective graduates will have no additional charge for the use of caps and gowns on this occasion. They will, however, be required to make a deposit of 50 cents on next Monday to insure the use of the same caps and gowns on Washington’s Birthday and for Commencement. The deposit will apply on the regular annual Cap and gown charge of $3.00.
Voice of the Campus . . .
Editorial note: The following letter regarding the status of the much discussed.. Metropolitan.. Club., was., received during the week by The Scholastic.
During the past several weeks there has been some discussion as to the reviving of the defunct Gotham organization. While nothing definite has grown out of the early pot-boiling, this letter may serve to throw some light on the campus attitude toward the proposals.
Editor Notre Dame Scholastic:
I have read with interest and regret the facts, as your goodselves published them, concerning the ill fated Metropolitan Club. For the past few weeks, though, I have seen nothing written about the club. Has even the ghost been lain to rest?
I would like to know whether a club for students from the Metropolitan district of New York can ever again be organized. The Old Testament once taught that the sins of the father are on the children until the fourth generation. Shall the -latent misfortune of the club always prevent from gathering together those hundreds of students and hinder such friendship as might be formed ?
It seems to me if anything in the way of founding a new club or reorganization can be effected, it would be worth while. Perhaps a new club would be willing to assume the debt thereby facilitating organization.
I would like your comments concerning this, and remain, —J. K.
ored Saturday, when, as guests of the University, they were introduced before the game in the stadium. About twenty-five of the Old Timers were present for this ceremony. Throughout the week-end they were afforded every possible consideration by the University.
This was the first time that any college or university in the country gave its athletes of the past century such a celebration. The Hon. John W. Eggeman, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, was the chairman for arrangements for the week-end. Edward J. Meehan, President of the Notre Dame Monogram Club of the Alumni, had charge of the local arrangements for the celebration. Edward A. Sawkins, of Detroit, Michigan, Colonel Frank Fehr, of Louisville, Kentucky, and Frank E. Hering, of South Bend, Monogram wearers in ’89, ’90, and ’97 respectively, all gave interesting and amusing talks at the pep meeting Friday evening when several members of the first Notre Dame football team were introduced to the student body.
November 2 9, 1935
Nine
PING-PONG AND PIANO PLAYERS PROVIDE POOL PARLOR PATTER
Vincentians To Continue
Rehabilitation Program
By John A.
There is increased activity these days in the homes of the green baize pool tables and green ping-pong tables (funny how the color green recurs in any. article connected with Notre Dame.)
With the coming of cold and wet weather more and more students are giving up touch football and long walks in the country for the clamor of Carroll, Brownson, and Walsh
“Cue ball in the side pocket.”
Becs. Drop in any time at Brownson Rec and listen to the blast of the radio, the tinklings of amateur pianists, the click of ping-pong and pool balls.
At the table near the main entrance of Brownson a famous footballer applies finesse to a difficult combination shot. At the main ping-pong table, a club president picks himself up off the dusty floor and shouts “Nice shot.” Ridiculously optimistic men try to study in the bedlam. Splat! a spittoon safely encompasses a well-directed volley. The pianist and his coterie of admirers abandon their discord to revel in the imminence of the Christmas holidays. Come on, come all—the rates are reasonable and the confusion is colossal.	.
If you have read the University bulletin you know that the recreation rooms exist for one purpose—to keep the student body on the campus in an atmosphere of wholesome, innocent pleasure. How can the Palais Royale compete with pool and ping-pong tables at ten cents a half hour? Or bowling at two bowls for a quarter? And don’t forget the candy at Brownson.
’ The walls of Brownson are old, but they support innumerable pictures of Notre Dame athletic greats during the last few decades. There you will find Gipp, Rockne, and the South Bend Simoon of 1930 (courtesy of Grantland Rice.) Interhall champions and varsity men stare out at you side by side.
Men of Walsh are unjustly proud of their bowling alleys. Only the long-experienced can reach triple numbers on these warped and beaten lanes. If you know the curves and dips, the cracks and rolls, you may get an
Gillespie
infrequent spare. But if you are a stranger you can only throw the ball somewhere near the middle of the strip and trust to fortune. Above all, take care that the ball doesn’t boomerang and bowl you over, instead of the pins. Worms turn, and bowling balls like to do the unconventional.
The services of the Rec halls are many, but perhaps the most humane is the orientation of nostalgic freshmen. The unceasing din seems to draw lonely first-year men in their search for companionship. Cues may be warped and tables scarred, but a man can always start a friendly argument.
Less clubby upperclassmen fill in an hour between classes. Off-Campus men convert tables into desks for the preparation of a next-class duty. Bridge, poker, and pinochle have their adherents. When the golden dome is ablaze the Rec halls become the scenes of more serious enterprises. Campus clubs assess and go bankrupt; holiday dances shift locale by the week. Elections were held in the Rec rooms until two years ago, but now the basement of the dining hall has taken on the dubious responsibility.
With all the joy and merriment in Brownson and Carroll, there is one awful thought in the minds of the indoor sport devotees. Washington Hall, one floor up, is the arena for lectures, movies, and theatrical productions. The situation has existed for a terrifying number of years, and the roof of the Rec room frequently creaks under thousands of feet.
Some day—well, we won’t say it in so many words, but wear your iron hats when next your inclinations run toward a game of pool. Wood can stand only so much, and its at least a drop of ten feet from the floor of Washington Hall to the floor of the Rec rooms.
But banish your fears and come one, come all—the rates are reasonable and the confusion is colossal.
“Keep one foot on the floor.”
The present work of rehabilitation being sponsored by the Notre Dame Conference of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul will continue at least until the end of the present semester according to a bulletin issued this week from the office of that organization. At present the Notre Dame Conference is under professional social work supervision. This Notre Dame Conference is aggregated to the main body of the Society proper. This year there are 30 students aiding in the meritorious work and among their duties they are now taking a survey of dental needs among the indigent persons of the community, and to date 50 families have been visited.
The splendid work and the sacrifice of time and pleasure that have thus far characterized the results of the Society’s efforts plainly indicate the fact that students at Notre Dame are not unaware of the social problems and conditions perplexing municipalities throughout the nation. For the past year and a half students have daily gone out into the surrounding communities and under the supervision of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul have turned in reports on over 200 cases of persons so physically disabled that they were unable to obtain their living and through these reports various means have been devised to help these individuals rehabilitate themselves.
Professor James Corbett, a recent addition to the Society’s advisory board, added a new angle to the discussion at the last meeting when he compared the attitude of the students of The School of Chartres, France, with that of the students of Notre Dame. The French students see a moral obligation to do the work of the Society, while at Notre Dame, the students do their work voluntarily thus fulfilling the precept of Christian charity.
Ten
The Scholastic
Many Philippine Grads Listed on Alumni Rolls
By Louis Da Pra
Philippine students at the University expressed in glowing terms their approval of and anxiety to participate in the Philippine Day observance, Dec. 9, when President Franklin Delano Roosevelt will visit the campus and, with Carlos P. Romulo, island publisher, will be awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Law.
Leopold Brias
N. D. graduate from Philippines.
Antonio Maria Bayot, resident of Alumni hall and Manila, stated:
“The celebration of Philippine Day in one of the most influential Catholic institutions in the United States will undoubtedly intensify the present sense of gratefulness of that Catholic nation toward their faithful guardian. And, as for myself, I will add that this memorable event will always remain with me as such, and furthermore as a true manifestation of that renowned spirit—the Spirit of Notre Dame.”
From Enrique Brias, also of Alumni hall and Manila, came:
“It is a great thing for the Philippines, and Signor Rom'ilo certainly deserves it. It is a great thing for Notre Dame and the Church, and I know that not only Signor Romulo, but all the Philippines will join in an -acknowledgement of gratitude to * Notre Dame. The coming of President Roosevelt to participate in the celebration joins Philippine relations to America despite the recent granting of independence.”
More than 50 Philippine names are included in the list of graduates of the University, several of whom hold influential political positions ih the first independent government of the islands and many whom hold important business positions.
One of the most prominent of recent graduates is Leopold Brias, ’34, who is in the accounting department of the San Miguel brewery, the largest brewery on the islands.
Francisco D. Enaje, C.E., ’12, was the darkhorse candidate for Speaker
(Continued on Page 23)
November 2 9, 1935
By Andrew D. Hufnagel.
Divested of all but a pair of scanty shorts, Ed Kumrow last Friday night stepped out into the first floor corridor of Howard in quest of a sharp razor blade. Having reached the end of the hall nearest the entrance without any luck, he was startled into confu
sion by the appearance of a group of fellows and girls. Ed, however, isn’t one to be nonplussed long by such an embarrassing situation. Immediately he assumed the role of a track man, nonchalantly jogging back and forth and then sprinting to the safety of his own room. The escorts of the girls also did then- pai-t by explaining that since the University had no gymnasium in which the athletes could train, the track men have to do their practicing in the halls.
Pat Crotty picked up his dessert spoon at the dinner table and idly began to play with it. Of a sudden the blank look on his face' gave way to one of surprise. Upon close observation of the handle of the spoon, he had seen something which was of enough importance for the whole table to know about. With much clucking of tongues and shaking of heads, each member of the group was given a chance to see the spoon, upon the handle of which was printed the word “Studebaker.” What were the boys to think? What was anyone to think? And after all that had been said in the Bulletin about lifting souvenirs. Hmmm.
What did we tell you some time ago about that Notre Dame football team 1 If it isn’t one of the finest outfits that University ever had, we’ll eat a whole Scholastic. Maybe it didn’t complete the season undefeated, even though Jack Oakie predicted that it would, but it just about did everything else. And above all else, its remarkable record and tremendous fighting spirit have left us seniors happy and proud; and appropriately so, since the majority of this year’s squad is of the class of ’36.
There has been much caustic comment on the part of numerous students concerning conservative Sorin’s lack of decorations over the home coming week end. It’s even been insinuated that the tenants of the staid, old place are disloyal and indifferent. Not so fast, fellows! After all, we Sorinites do not want to be accused
of being crassly selfish. Not every hall possesses the distinction of having its rector represent it on the platform at a Southern California pep session. If along with that honor, Sorin had won the hall decorations prize, think of all the teeth that would be gnashing at present.
Why all this recent fuss about deciding which universities are the most likely to be chosen to play in the various bowl games on New Year’s Day? There’s nothing complex about the question at all. If anybody asked us —and nobody seems to have considered doing so yet—we’d suggest that Notre Dame’s first team play in the Rose Bowl, the second team represent the University in New Orleans’ Sugar Bowl contest, and Andy Pilney meet the University of Florida single-handed in the Orange Bowl. Then everybody would be happy.
All in favoi- of organizing a campus cinema club see George Meagher. The only condition required of a prospective member of this group is that he visit the South Bend theatres at least seven times a week. As is apparently obvious, Bill Ellis is already a member in good standing.
The close of Notre Dame’s outdoor football season is the signal for the ' opening of her indoor football schedule. Indoor football, sometimes known as basketball, cannot entirely take the place of regular football with all its color, verve, and thrills, but it’s the best substitute that we know of. Besides, it gives another chance to see such gridiron stars as Marty Peters and Don Elser in the kind of dashing action in which they can take part so brilliantly. Also we’re to have the privilege of witnessing the toughest basketball schedule season which any Notre Dame quintet has ever scheduled. In this respect the- basketball team is in much the same po-
sition as our 1935 football squad. Let’s hope that it will achieve a record as fine as the one garnered by the Irish gridders.
El even
IN II I: JUeCLEG VEIN
CAFSMOKE
Strolling leisurely to the Main Building and then after taking his time climbing to the fourth floor, the W. U. student (Western Union) sauntered into the studio of PROFESSOR STANLEY SESSLER of the Art Department. Said messenger
Is that your number or your age?
boy spent about 15 minutes walking thither and yon gazing at the pretty pictures. Finally the Professor growing quite inquisitive accosted the W. U. man and asked, “Anything for me?” to which the bicycle boy replied “Oh yes, professor, your wife just phoned the office to tell you that your house is on fire.” . . . MR. THOMAS BARRY, head of the publicity department recently received a letter postmarked 1930. Before reaching him it had made the rounds of such places as Oak Park, Evanston, Joliet, Notre Dame and a few others stopping off at each point for a few months rest...
Bill ‘BROOKLINE-BOSTON’ Ellis and his neighbor in Howard Hall, CHARLES COLES both anxiously await mail from the same girl (broadminded, eh what?) . . . There is one man on the campus who earnestly hopes that Bill Shakespeare doesn’t make All-American, namely FRANKLIN FOX who delivers Bill’s mail which at times totals TWENTY-FIVE a delivery. . . VERNON TETRAULT is Miller Mallet’s ‘yes man’
An Army casualty befell lion-hearted EDMUND BARTNETT of Lyons. In a moment of heavenly bliss he slammed a train door so hard the pane broke and now he is nursing a wounded paw. . . . PHIL CURRY, Morrissey’s esthete, says that life is a great long lie, with a long drawn out sigh at the end... JOE WEHRLE is going to throw a party for the FUNNY FELLOWS. Incidentally Joe says his coat-lending business has in
creased 63% since he advertised in Caf Smoke.
JACK MONTEVERDE of Morrissey is in the kennel business, or is that his ‘nom de plume’ for the hot dog profession. . . Richard ‘NEWSY’ Thompson, campus checker chump of Badin, requires the use of spectacles to dine but reads well without them (don’t ye trust them that serves?). . .
Bob Mullen, is truly an exceptional man about campus in that he actually introduced his female companion to several hall-mates while a m bl i n g about tthe quadrangle last Saturday . . . Our condolences to the men of the fourth floor in Howard Hall who have been campused for making considerable noise during the past week or so. . . All those who are going to bounce home by bus would be wise to drop in at 339 Howard Hall in the. near future. . .
Some simple soul actually thinks it takes HUFNAGEL the Harp seven days to knock out his mistake called THE WEEK. . . CHARLES “Lindbergh” FITZSIMONS spent the past week-end airplane riding and has decided to make it his livelihood—happy landing, Charlie! . . . THE FUNNY FELLOWS are out of material which means that ‘youse guys’ are backing down on us. Be sports, how about getting into some trouble so that we. may keep our jobs?
—The Funny Fellows
The Art student’s conception of the ideal campus barber shop.
CHICAGO was settled in 1833 and at rare intervals since then.
FREEDOM OF SPEECH—the right to talk one way and vote the other.
Modern Metaphor
As out of place as a discord in Wayne King’s music.
The florists have more than accomplished the purpose of their “say it with flowers” slogan; mistletoe has now become a superfluity.
Even the clock goes coo-coo on New Year’s Eve.
“If he’s not more polite he’s going to get it in the neck,” said one catty turkey to another catty turkey.
Lamentations of a Sub
(A Sonj®t after Milton . . . long after.) When I; consider how my time is spent '
In warming benches as my teammates fight,
Their sturdy foes to vanquish, while
I might
As well with strength and speed unequalled rent
The foemen’s line asunder and prevent	.
Incursions past pur goal and expedite
Our victory. “Am I a parasite?”
I grimly ask. My conscience does resent
That murmur and replies: “The coach knows best!”
At his command eleven stalwarts bear
The brunt of battle—surely, ’tis their fate.
He knows full well you’d come at his behest.
Console yourself, old boy, it’s only ' fair;
They also SERVE, who only SIT and WAIT!
Some pre-prom dope — don’t be worrying how you’ll look in the pictures, Juniors, as the first three rows will be filled with Seniors.
The perfect triple-threat man is the rommate who begs, borrows or steals neckties with equal ease.
“Experienced?” exclaimed the job seeker, “why I’m a college man.”
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ............................ Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
'	Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman__________________________In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis________________________________A rl Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan----------------------Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown_________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus---------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie____________._____________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker__________________________Co-Sports Editor'
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen^
Eugene Vaslett____________________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride___________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26_________________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
November 29, 1935
THE OLYMPIC GAMES
G ENERAL CHARLES H. SHERRILL, American member of the International Olympic Committee, in June, 1933, fought German Nazification of the Olympics. He wrote a letter to Rabbi Wise of New York City on June 12, 1933 from Vienna after the International Olympic Committee had just held a lengthy session. The following excerpts are taken from this letter:
“It was a trying fight. We were six on the executive committee and even my English colleague thought we ought not to interfere in the internal arrangements of the German team. The Germans yielded slowly—very slowly. First they conceded that other nations could bring Jews.
“Then after the fight was over telephones came from Berlin that no publication was to be given to their government’s back-down on Jews but only the vague statement that they agreed to follow our rules . . . All sorts of influence was exerted to change my American stand.”
The Olympic code gives every nation the right to demand that every other nation participating in the games observe fair play in the selection of its team. That Germany has violated her pledge to observe the Olympic code has been proved previously in these columns so as to leave little room for doubt as to the veracity of the above statement. Even the American Olympic Committee admits, and quite correctly, that the Olympic code requires that race, religion and creed be kept out of the
November 2 9, 1935
Olympics; and it is precisely this requirement which, in addition to the requirement of fair play, Germany has violated in her treatment not only of Jewish athletes but also f Catholic and Protestant athletes.
Mr. Avery Brundage of the A.A.U. spent less than a week in Germany in the summer of 1'934 investigating the situation. After returning in September 1934 he stated that for the third time the Reichssport-Kommissar had promised that Germany would observe the Olympic code. Mr. Brundage was hood-winked while in Germany. He neither talked nor understood German. He talked to the heads of Jewish sport organizations with Nazi leaders prompting the Jewish leaders to deliberately lie to our American representative in relation to the Nazi treatment of the Jewish athletes.
George N. Shuster in the Commonweal of November 8, 1935 says, “The point against participation is so simple that everyone slightly above the Brundage level of intelligence ought to be able to grasp it.”
We as students have a vital interest in the question of whether or not America should send a team to the 1936 Olympic Games if they are played in Nazi Germany. The Scholastic is in favor of withdrawing the American team in the light of proven discrimination and the utter abandonment of sportsmanship and fair play by Nazi Germany. A large number of important individuals and organizations in the United States bear witness to this fact by seeking the removal of the 1936 Olympic Games to some country wherein sportsmanship and the true Olympic spirit will prevail. American athletes should refuse to answer the summons of Hitler. For our part we refuse to believe that American athletes value the opportunity to compete in the Games and to win the Olympic Crown more dearly than they value fair play.
On Dec. 6 the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States will meet in national convention in New York City. At this convention, the members will decide whether or not to uphold a resolution adopted in November 1933, whereby the A.A.U. is bound to refuse to certify athletes for participation in the Olympic Games in the event that Nazi Germany shall have been guilty of discrimination in sports.
There is only one way to fair play and fundamental justice. The A.A.U. Associations must veto our participation in Adolf Hitler’s Nazi Olympics.—J- P. P.
O
END OF THE SEASON
I-' AST Saturday afternoon seventeen seniors ended their playing careers as Notre Dame won a splendid victory over a dogged Southern California squad. From every point of view, the game was the most impressive we have ever witnessed in the Stadium. Perhaps it was because we were seeing our last contest as a Notre Dame Undergraduate, perhaps it was the presence of the group of old-time monogram winners, or the solemn and lovely tribute to Joe Sullivan, Johnny Young, and the rest of the deceased football stalwarts. At any rate it was a fitting close to a highly successful season.
The ovation accorded each senior as he left the gridiron for the last time was a spontaneous and really sincere attempt by the student body to express the pride it felt in the achievements of the 1935 team. We can only chime in with our own fervent “well done” for Coach Layden and his crew of “Fighting Irish,” the team which, we believe, will always be remembered as possessing the greatest and gamest heart of all.—J. S. M.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH BASKETEERS MAKE DEBUT HERE SATURDAY
ENGAGE ALBION IN FIELDHOUSE
AT START OF DIFFICULT SCHEDULE
ROSE BOWL
Peters, Elser to Join Squad
By John Cackley
One of the toughest basketball cards ever attempted by Notre Dame will be inaugurated tomorrow night in the local fieldhouse, when Coach George Keogan’s proteges tangle with the Albion five in their season’s
opener.	.
Although the opposing team will be
John Hopkins
Always forward never backward.
considered mostly as a breather, they will, nevertheless, furnish plenty of competition for the Gold and Blue. Last year the Irish smothered Albion, 37-11, but only after a nip-and-tuck battle during the initial two periods. The contest will afford Coach Keo-gan an excellent chance of observing his men, both veterans and newcomers, under fire.
As yet there has been no definite lineup selected, and in all probability . Keogan will use a variety of combinations on the floor. The Irish attack will be mainly built around the nucleus of returning monogram men from the 1934-35 campaign. These include co-captains Ford and Peters, George Ireland, Frank Wade,. Johnny Hopkins, and Don Elser. The Green mentor will have a hard time replacing Johnny Jordan and Joe O’Kane, both of whom were lost from last winter’s squad through graduation. It is expected that Keogan will rely to a great extent on Don Allen, a monogram guard of two seasons ago,
1935-36 NET SCHEDULE
Nov. 30—Albion at Notre Dame (clinic game)
Dec. 4---St. Mary’s and Kalamazoo at Notre Dame
Dec. 7---St. Joseph and James Milliken at South Bend (Studebaker)
Dec. 11--Washington U. at St. Louis
Dec. 16—Northwestern at Notre Dame
Dec. 23—Purdue at Lafayette
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston
Jan. 4—Minnesota at Minneapolis
Jan. 10 — Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Jan. 14---Marquette at Notre Dame
Jan. 18--Pennsylvania at Philadelphia
Jan. 20—Syracuse at Syracuse
Jan. 25—Butler at Notre Dame
Feb. 1---St. Benedict’s at Notre Dame
Feb. 5---Illinois at Notre Dame
Feb. 10---Kentucky at Notre Dame
Feb.. 14-New York U. at New York (Madison Square Garden)
Feb. 22 — Pittsburgh at Notre Dame
Feb. 25---Minnesota at Notre Dame
Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis
Mar. 4 — Ohio State at Notre Dame
Mar. 7---Marquette at Milwaukee
Mar. 10 — U. of Detroit at Detroit
who was forced to quit school last year because of illness.	■
, The reserves of the ’35 aggregation who are making determined bids for starting posts are Bonner and De-Mots. Mike Crowe, another of that famous line of Notre Dame athletes, * is striving for a regular position. Coach Keogan is unusually blessed with good second year men, because last season’s freshmen outfit was re- garded as being one of the best year-
(Continued on Page 22)
Notre Dame’s hopes to go to the classic Rose Bowl game New Year’s Day with Stanford revived once more this week when it was rumored that last Monday afternoon at 4:00 p.m.,
Elmer F. Layden
Ran to defense of Irish.
Stanford called and invited the Irish gridders to play them in Pasadena the first of next year.
The Athletic Office denied the rumoi' of the invitation but there is a strong sentiment in favor of Notre Dame’s participation in the gridiron spectacle. Students of Stanford University, the Pacific Coast representative, declared themselves heartily in (Continued on Page 23)
MAKING A LONG STORY SHORT
Notre Dame gained 267 yards from scrimmage.	•
So. Cal gained 201 yards from scrimmage.
Notre Dame averaged 33 yards oh punts.
So. Cal. averaged 40 yards on punts.
Notre Dame gained 118 yards on forward passes.
So. Cal. gained 117 yards on forward passes.
Notre Dame penalized 25 yards.
So. Cal. penalized 0 yards. .
Notre Dame made 10 first downs.
So. Cal. made 13 first downs.
Fourteen
The Scholasti
All-American Board Meets In South Bend
NOTRE DAME CLOSES SEASON WITH IMPRESSIVE VICTORY OVER TROJANS
Last Sunday the All-America Board of Football met in the Hoffman hotel in South Bend and named the official All-American teams for the season. The findings of the board will not be announced to the public until Dec. 8. The board consists of Elmer Layden, Notre Dame coach; Howard Jones, Southern California coach; Frank Thomas, Alabama coach; Glenn Warner, Temple coach; and Christy Walsh, newspaper syndicator.
Predictions on the choice of the board are perhaps not proper at this time but it is fairly certain that at
Wayne Vernal Millner His playing was closely zvatched.
least two members of the Irish squad were considered. Wayne Millner, for his steady work in the three seasons of play for Notre Dame stands a good chance for the left end position. Bill Shakespeare, for his spectacular passing and punting merits attention as does Wally Fromhart, as smart a quarterback as Notre Dame has seen in several seasons.
Probably the only player in the country who is sure of winning a place on the team is Jay Berwanger, left half of Chicago. For two seasons Berwanger has been the spark in the Chicago outfit and his amazing amount of yardage gained makes him outstanding in the country. Bobby 1 Grayson of Stanford is also a candidate for the team, since he is by far the most brilliant ball carrier on the Pacific coast. Nominally Grayson is a fullback, but the fact that he calls signals and directs the play seems to make him eligible for the quarterback post.
The choices are made from all of the teams in the country and this ' seems to point to several positions for men on Eastern and Southern teams. Foremost among these are Princeton, N.Y.U., Southern Methodist, and Texas Christian. The whirlwind team of the season, Ohio State will place at least one man, probably Gomer Jones at center.
SPORTS WRITERS
Last Saturday’s great intersectional game between' Notre Dame and Southern California caught the attention of the Country’s sport fans. Though Stanford was meeting unbeaten California, Purdue facing Indiana, Michigan battling Ohio State, Princeton opposing Dartmouth and Bice encountering Texas Christian University, the exciting, thrill-packed Irish-Trojan battle attracted nearly a capacity crowd to the Notre Dame stadium.
A small army of sports writers included such prominent men as Christy Walsh, syndicate writer, Paul Michelson of the Associated Press, Arch Ward of the Chicago Tribune, James S. Kearns, Chicago Daily News; George Dixon, New York Daily News; Homer Strickler, New York Sun; George T. Davis, Los Angeles Herald Express, Maxwell Stibs, Los Angeles Examiner, Mike Mahoney, Detroit News, Tour Gahagen, Cincinnati Enquirer; Harold B. Bink, N.E.A. Service Incorporation, Frank Curtis and Art Ward of the Pittsburgh Post Gazette, Warren Brown, Chicago Herald and Examiner; Leo Fischer, Chicago American; Wert H. Gammon, Chattanooga Times; W. E. Shea, Dayton Daily Nezes; James C. Keefe, Milwaukee Journal; Bobert Pollock, New York Times; F. A. Fink, Our Sunday Visitor, and the two local sport editors, Jim Costin and Jack Ledden.
The 1936 season is a long way off but next year’s Notre Dame opponents had scouts watching the proceedings. Among them were Coach J. B. Sutherland of Pittsburgh, W. J. Treece of Illinois, and Ted Hurony-mus of Ohio State. W. F. Kern assisted Sutherland and Joe Klemp aided Treece. Aubrey Devine, Southern California assistant coach, also watched the game from the press box.
Badio listeners were sent play by play accounts of the game by such prominent broadcasters as Quin Byan of WGN, Pat Flanagan WBBM, Len Biley, George A. Stafford and J. M. Mathemey of WIBE, Gunner Elliott, John W. Hackett and Aaro Hershey of WO WO, Bobert T. Convey, John Harrington and John J. Manion of KWK, Early Maxwell WMC, and Jim Britt WSBT-WFAM.
Notre Dame’s publicity director, Joe Petritz, and Southern California’s publicity director, Al Wesson, were also in the press box.
Final Contest Was Thrilling
By Cy Stroker
It was a great day for the old timers of ’78 and ’35 last Saturday when Notre Dame closed its football season by beating Southern California, 20 to 13.
In one of the most thrilling contests
Howard Jones “A great team. . . .”
of the season the Irish seniors who were playing their last game for Notre Dame staged a last half rally which netted them the whole twenty points.
Southern Cal, rated as one of the up and coming teams of the season, kept the Notre Dame team on its toes from start to finish, making use of every opportunity by driving hard for a score. After a brilliant run-back of the opening kick-off by Mike Layden, the Irish surrendered the ball with a poor punt. A quick kick by Davis set the Laydenmen back on their heels, and when Notre Dame fumbled on its own 19 yard line several plays later the opportunity, came for Southern Cal’s first score, Davis making the touchdown. The point after touchdown was no good.
The second half began in bang up fashion with both teams doing some hard playing. Several plays after the opening of the half Shakespeare threw a brilliant pass to Millner diagonally across the field. Although Millner made straight for the goal, officials declared that he stepped out of bounds on the Southern Cal 25 yard line. It was apparent that Millner was over the stripe at that point, but it seemed that his foot did not touch the ground as he was pivoting on a Southern Cal safety man. The decision only made the Irish more determined to score, for on the very next play Shakespeare threw a 45
(Continued on Page 20)
November 2 9, 1935
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Irish Netmen To Play
Twin-Bill On Dec. 4
By Cy Stroker
Among the graduating seniors of the football squad who will be sorely missed is left tackle Ken Stilley. For three years this affable giant has been one of .the mainstays of the Irish line, making tackles all over the field and
opening holes for the Notre Dame ball carriers when the play was to the left. His amazing accuracy in kicking the point after touchdown has helped the Irish out of many a tight spot.
Stilley (Kenneth Leonard to the folks back home) is a product of Clairton, Pa. where he was bom 23 years ago. In his high school days, Ken was a fullback and made allstate honors at that posiiton. For two years, in 1930 and 1931 he was
captain of the Clairton team. One of the highlights of his career came when he ran a kickoff back 80 yards for a touchdown which won a championship game for his school.
It was at Notre Dame that Ken’s
promising talents as a tackle were first discovered and he has played at this position ever since. He first saw action in the Indiana game of 1933 and was in the starting line-up for the Pitt game of that year. During his junior year he played in every game except the Army and Navy games'. This year he has figured in every game on the Irish schedule. In the Navy game especially he showed (Continued on Page 20)
By Al Bride
A new feature will be inaugurated next Wednesday evening when the Notre Dame basketball team will encounter both St. Mary’s and Kalamazoo. The Irish quintet will play a regulation game with each one of the two teams, and it is probable that all deserving players on the Notre Dame
squad will see action before the double header is over.
St. Mary’s will be seen in the Irish fieldhouse for the first time, and is expected to demonstrate a high brand of basketball. The quintet from Wisconsin is coached by the’ former Notre Dame grid and basketball star, Ed Krause. Last year was Krause’s first year at St. Mary’s and the system he installed met with a fair degree of success, but this year it is expected to click in a way that may open the eyes of his former' instructor, George Keogan.
St. Mary’s is well fortified with experienced players, only a few being lost by graduation last year. Another factor in their favor is the fact that freshmen are eligible for the varsity team, and in that way players can compile four years of varsity competition.
The jumping position is expected to be held down by the lanky McGuire. McGuire has had two years of experience and is a smooth passes, a fine defense man and has a good eye. The Irish forwards will be hindered by Captain Scully who plays back court. Scully has had more than usual success in holding free scoring forwards to a minimum amount of points. The Keogan defense will • have to be clicking to stop the sharp cutting Kane from darting in and swishing the net. Kane has had varsity experience at both the guard and forward positions, and is expected to start at forward.
After tangling forty minutes with the boys from St. Mary’s the Irish hoopsters will be met by a fresh aggregation from Kalamazoo. The lads from Michigan have appeared here for the last few years with little success. This season they hope to prove to the Irish that they are to be rated more than just an early season opponent and will be primed to push Coach Keogan’s charges to the limit.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY
GEORGE KEOGAN HAS SPLENDID RECORD SINCE COMING TO NOTRE DAME IN 1923
In the bright slanting rays of a brilliant November sun this afternoon, eleven Notre Dame football players, blanket wrapped and bareheaded, stood in silent tribute to the memory of big Joe Sullivan, their captain.
Then, the half-time intermission over, those same Fighting Irish, pals of Joe Sullivan when he played with them, went out to pay active, whirling, vigorous tribute to the kid whom they elected captain. The epitaph they wrote for him in those thirty minutes was blazoned on the scoreboard of Notre Dame’s stadium in this evening’s gloom where 50,000 spectators might see it. It read Notre Dame 20, Southern California 13.
The engraving of that message was done by the veterans who came into Notre Dame as freshmen four years ago and who bowed their way out of college football today. But the greatest of them all were three kids with whom Joe Sullivan used to make up a quartet. They were Wayne Millner, Bill Shakespeare, and Wally Fromhart. They scored the points and paced the drive that brought the Irish up from a 6-0 deficit at half time and into a 14 to 6 lead at the end of the third quarter. They fired the explosion that blasted a late Trojan drive when the score was 14-13. And they put over the final, clinching touch down that made that message on the scoreboard read as it did, 2Q-13.—James S. Kearns in the Chicago Daily News. '
To the last exciting split second 50,000 spectators half frozen by the blasts of a wintry November afternoon, but glowing in admiration for one of the grandest squads of fighting men ever to wear the Gold and Blue, watched Notre Dame end its greatest season since the Rockne era today with a typical comeback that defeated Southern California, 20 to 13.
Beaten, 6 to 0, by their Far Western foes after a wild first half that produced almost everything in football, both good and bad, the players that wouldn’t be beaten by Ohio State and Army when the going was the darkest rushed back with an aerial counter-attack that carried them to victory and gave them the best season’s record since the undefeated Notre Dame campaigns of 1929 and 1930.— Paul Michelson, in the Associated Press.
EARTHQUAKE
Seismologists at Canisius College, Buffalo, N. Y., were accused of causing an earthquake the other day. One irate householder threatened suit for damages.
By Gene Vaslett
Basketball Coach George Keogan has been accused of being nearly everything from a mystery man to Bearskin but no one has ever accused him of being a mediocre basketball coach. In fact no one had a chance to accuse the silent coach of turning
George Keogan
“Why next year (1925) we will. . .”
out pool’ basketball teams because from the first day Keogan reported to Notre Dame for coaching duties he has turned out such phenomenally successful teams that Notre Dame has been consistently on the top in basketball circles throughout the country.
Little is known of the Irish coach prior to his days at Notre Dame except that he coached basketball teams at Wabash College for a few years. But since 1923 when he first took up his coaching job here he has become a national figure.
Notre Dame, before 1923 had played basketball for six years and boasted of an all time record of 64 defeats and 32 wins which was far from an enviable record for an Indiana basketball aggregation. However basketball took on new life with its new coach and the 1923-24 season
saw the Irish eagers win 15 games and lose 8, a sharp reversal of form at Notre Dame.
Then in 1924-25 Coach Keogan experienced his worst season in his 12 years at the Irish institution. His team engaged in 21 games and could just barely finish over the .500 mark with a record of 11 wins and 10 losses. Notre Dame basketball- supporters who had revived new hope since 1923 thought the Irish were once more in the doldrums of basketball lethargy and barely hoped to equal the ’24-’25 record in the ’25-’26 season. But George Keogan had different plans and during the spring months developed a new offensive for the eagers to use. Together with this and remarkable material the next three years found Keogan turning out three teams which rank among the greatest that ever played in this country. In these three years the teams lost only four games and turned in 56'wins. In 1925-26 only one game was lost and that to Franklin College from Franklin, Indiana. Franklin College was the nemesis of Irish cag-
Norb Crowe Captain in 1931
ers during those three great year’s as they were the only team in the country that were able to defeat the bas-keteers consistently after such nationally known teams as Minnesota, Iowa, Princeton, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Pittsburgh had been decisively conquered.
Although the three teams of the years from 1925 to 1928 were prob-(Continued on Page 21)
November? 9, 1935
Seventeen
Southern Cal. Sidelights
By Jim Waldron
What can truly be described as the “fightingest” of the Fighting Irish teams of many years past, and probably many to come, finished its season in a fitting brilliant climax Saturday. One couldn’t desire a better wind-up of a highly successful season nor could any one wish for a finer completion of a football career than that of our senior players. Notre Dame men to the last. . . the Notre Dame men that those 50,000 people expected them to be ... a great finish.
Southern California looked to be the greatest finishing team we have faced all year. . . fighting to the last ditch. . . “pulling a Notre Dame as the saying now goes. They lacked a Warburton or a Mohler however, although Davis proved quite elusive at times, much to our chagrin.
As you probably noticed, if you weren’t looking at the female in the leopard-skin coat in the front box, the Trojans discarded their famous “squirrel cage” shift for a more conventional type of formation. . . which was one reason why they didn’t seem to be the spectacular team of old.
Too many of the boys were getting lost in it they say.
This lad Langley was one of the best punters we’ve come up against all year. By the time our safety man got hold of Langley’s high, long boot he had little chance to run any place with it.
And his quick kicks had our quarter backs blushing -with embarrassment as they chased them back.
Of course Bill Shakespeare, after a rather erratic beginning, more than held his own as one of the country’s greatest (if not the greatest) long distance punters. Shakespeare played a marvelous game of football all the way around, one of his best of the year, firmly establishing himself as one of the finest backs in the land. . . Wally Fromhart in his swan song played the greatest game of his life.
SEVEN SENIORS END CAREERS AS IRISH
RESERVES CLOSE A SUCCESSFUL SEASON
By Mike Crowe
Saturday’s game of Nov. 16, at Champaign, Illinois, brought the “B” team’s schedule to a close. The season can be considered very successful considering the fact that the lineup was juggled considerably for each game. Seniors who couldn’t make the grade as varsity performers, and sophomores who needed more experience before advancing to varsity ranks composed the greater part of the “B” team performers.
October 6, the “B” team administered a 25-12 defeat to Niagara College. The reserves were an outstanding attraction in Niagara because the largest crowd that ever attended a Niagara football game turned out to watch the Irish whip the home team. Trailing at the quarter 6-0, the reserves turned on the pressure and were leading 12-6 at half time. Every starting man was a sophomore for the Notre Dame “B.” McKenna, Horan, Saffa, and McCormick scored touchdowns for the Irish. Sweeney, Emmanuel, Chanowicz, Clifford, and Foster were standouts in the forward wall.
Ouachita College fell next before Bill Cerney’s clever team. The Irish played good football, winning 25-0. McGrath, Schmidt, McCormick, and Gibbs crossed the goal line for Notre' Dame. Saffa passed brilliantly. In the Irish front line, Smith, Emmanuel, and Battaglia played good ball. Arboit and Hoan also looked good in the secondary. Notre Dame’s “B” made eleven first downs to Ouachita’s seven.
The afternoon of November 2 found the reserves lined up against the Illinois “B.” It was the first “B”
team home game in four years. Early in the game, Saffa made a long run for a touchdown. Shortly after this, he passed to Gibbs who grabbed the pigskin and raced 60 yards for the second Notre Dame touchdown. Joe Carson was the shining light in an 80 yard Illinois march for a touchdown in the second quarter. Ed Crotty and Macaluso, Notre Dame linemen, were big factors in the triumph.
Defeat came on November 9. Purdue’s “B” turned the trick. A wet gridiron handicapped the outweighed Irish. Two Purdue scores in the second quarter and a touchdown in the third period left the Irish trailing 19-0 at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Notre Dame’s first score came when Dan Gibbs blocked a punt and recovered it for a touchdown. A few minutes later, Saffa sprinted 50 yards for a touchdown making the score 19-12. The reserves uncovered all their trick plays in the closing minutes but none of them clicked for scores. For the Irish, Dean and Saffa were the outstanding backfield performers, while Gibbs was strong in the forward wall. The game demonstrated that Notre Dame never quits until the final gun. The spirit that whipped Ohio State almost gave the reserves victory over Purdue.
The sophomores and juniors who played with the “B” squad received a grooming that will be of value to them when they aspire to the varsity next year. Since the players go comparatively unrewarded, they must have a real liking for the game.
Each year more importance has been attached to these games and the competition is fully as keen as that between the varsity teams. This can be further demonstrated when we stop to realize the number of reserves that step into varsity berths during the course of their stay at school.
Notre Dame Reserve Football Squad
Eighteen
The Scholastic
HNTEDS
FRO/A TUG
tRRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
OTRE DAME’S excellent basketball coach, George E. Keogan, will unveil his new towering stream-lined edition of the Irish basketeers of 1935-36 tomorrow night in the local fieldhouse.
Albion College will try to stem the surging Keoganites in the opening conflict in what is billed as a clinic game. This means that Dr. George will demonstrate to the many coaches, officials, etc., who will be present, the changes in the- rules, the different types of shots as well as the various styles of both offensive and defensive play.
The Irish face the most difficult basketball schedule ever. They play absolutely the best teams that can be carded. Purdue, Northwestern, Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Marquette, Pennsylvania, Syracuse, Butler, Illinois, Kentucky, New York University, and Ohio State are some of the schools on the Irish list. You name them and the Doctor’s proteges will meet them this season. Coach Keogan may have to use shock troops much like Elmer Layden did during the past grid campaign because there is such a multitudinous amount of good material on the net squad this year from ' which two teams of equal ability could be moulded. Peters, Ireland, Wade, Ford, and Hopkins are a few of the senior members of the squad from which a mighty fine quintet could be garnered. Then to supplement these court artists there are Moir, Crowe, Novak, Meyer, O’Connor/and Carlson, all sophomores who will see plenty of action.
On Dec. 4, Notre Dame will play a double header against St. Mary’s of Minnesota (Ed Krause’s combine) and Kalamazoo college all in the same evening. This is something new in Irish basketball annals but if George Keogan is to get an early season glimpse at all his splendid material, under fire, he had to do something along these lines. St. Joseph and James Milliken will be met on the Notre Dame court on Dec. 7 in another twin bill. So get yourself over to the gym early Saturday night if you really want to see a classy group of. netmen.
•
When Warren Brown of the “Chicago Herald and Examiner” covers an
• (Continued on Page 20)
NICHOLSON STARTS INDOOR PRACTICE WITH LARGE TURNOUT OF CANDIDATES
INTERHALL ...
With the interhall football schedule being discontinued because of the unfortunate injury to Dick Sullivan—-results were thrown into a great mix-up. Final games saw sudden reversal of form by the weak and strong alike. Off-Campus provided the greatest upset by soundly trouncing Dillon 32-0.
The Physical Education department was then faced with the problem of deciding the champions of Groups I and II. In Group I there existed a triple-tie for first place between Corby, Walsh, and Howard while in Group II St. Edwards’ Hall was far in the lead with an unbroken string of five victories. After due consideration it was decided to toss coins to determine the champions inasmuch as no further games were to be played this year. Therefore Corby, Walsh, and Howard flipped a jitney and Corby won. Then to discover the final winners between Group I and Group II, St. Edward’s tossed with Corby and again the Corbyites won—Interhall Champs!
However because St. Edwards had won five straight games and Corby’s record was blemished with a loss and a tie, it was decided to present the trophy to St. Ed’s and the individual team medals to Corby. Thus ended the 1935 interhall season—one of thrills, upsets, excitement, and marred only by the most unfortunate accident to Sullivan.
Interhall Basketball
Now that the football suits are being returned to Mac’s equipment room where he will carefully install them amongst the mothballs, the interhall addicts are itching for chances at the old bucket game — basketball to be more concise. Because Christmas "vacation is coming up shortly and also because of ceremonies concerning the visit of President Roosevelt the basketeers do not hope to swing into action until after the two weeks layoff.
Last year’s title holders were St. Ed’s in the heavyweight class and Badin in the lightweight group. It appears also that most of the players on each of these teams will be back aiming for another shot at the title as well as at the basket. The allinterhall teams will again be chosen after the close of the season and competition is to be plenty scorching for the five places on each honorary team. Schedules and more details will be published as soon as they can be made available to The Scholastic.
By Arch Gott
Monday afternoon Coach Nicholson sounded his familiar cry of “All up” and a large squad of track hopefuls gathered for the first exercises of the coming 1936 indoor season. The plans at the present call for some extensive roughening up work which will occupy the squad until the Christmas vacation begins. This program consists
Joe McGrath “Round and round we go.”
mainly of calisthenics and improvement of form in the many track and field events. Just now the coach feels that the candidates for the team are in dire need of some strenuous conditioning in order that they might report in fair shape after the two week recess of the University. Some of the thinlies are overweight but a couple of weeks of action should easily remedy that difficulty.
Prospects for the coming seasonlook quite bright and if some of the sophomores come through, an unusually strong team will represent the Blue and Gold. The two “dark horses” of the team seem to be those competing in the high jump and the pole vault. Vince Murphy, high jumper par excellence, has graduated along with Jack Edwards, dependable pole vaulter. Both of these boys were constant first place winners and it now is Nick’s job to replace them. Leading bidders for their places are “Boots” McCarthy, Frank Quinlan, and ■ Joe McGrath all scored in many of last year’s meets. In the sprints, the quarter mile, and half mile races there are plenty of veterans back and the mile and two mile should be stronger than ever with lots of new blood coming up and some of the old blood returning. Capt. George Meagher will be out there again in his specialty the broad jump and he should gather a flock of firsts. Last indoor season, the Notre Dame track team won everyone of their meets and the coming squad shows every indication that they will further this undefeated record.
November 2 9, 1935
Nineteen
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
PHIL CROSSON who plays in the PENN backfield was a freshman at NOTRE DAME a few years back. . . . PAUL TANGORA who played such a sensational game against the Irish from his guard position in the NORTHWESTERN line, was a member of the DEVITT PREP team that JACK ROBINSON met as a GEORGETOWN PREP luminary. . . . ALABAMA U., the present Rose Bowl Champion, has played 317 football games in its gridiron history (not counting this season) and has won 217, lost 80 and tied 20. FRANK THOMAS, member of the All-American .Board, is a former NOTRE DAME star ... A southern baseball league had a team whose combined batting average was well over the .600 mark. When MAJOR LEAGUE scouts arrived on the' scene, they found that the local scorekeeper was recording one hit for a single, two hits for a double, three for a triple, and four for a homer, believe it or not! . . . AL DUVAL, negro tackle of the LOYOLA (LOS ANGELES) team, is being touted as another DUKE SLATER, IOWA’S All-Amer-ica tackle . . . DICK HANLEY, EXNORTHWESTERN coach, is doing so well in the insurance business he says he’ll never entirely give it up for any football job . . . CAPT. PAT ECHOLS of WEST POINT serves the newspaper men beer and army beans for lunch when they come to the Point to cover a game . . • YALE’S varsity players have to pay §10.50 a week to eat at the football training table . . . MANHATTAN COLLEGE’S No. 1 rooter is a bartender in a saloon near the campus. He imports rabbits as good luck charms for the MANHATTAN team. He says that the failure to kick the goal that would have beaten HOLY CROSS was because of the fact that one of the rabbits got out of his cage.
SO THEY SAID:
“NOTRE DAME’S ends are being touted as the weak spot in the IRISH team” . . . “FAR WEST representatives say WASHINGTON STATE will be the coast’s representative in the ROSE BOWL next January” . . . “ARMY’S hopes of scoring Saturday against the IRISH rest in great part on MEYER’S deadly throwing arm and elusive legs” . .. “One “Big Ten” coach privately expressed his opinion SCHMIDT of OHIO STATE was going to wish he had a few of those touchdowns back, his men ran up early in the season, before the season is over.”
Twenty .
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX (Continued from Page 19)
event he never brings along the customary typewriter. He dictates his story verbally to his telegraph operator. Warren is always the first writer to leave the Notre Dame press coop during the football season, and last Saturday he was through his work thirty minutes after the ball game was over ... Coach Howard Jones, of the Trojans, and Al Wesson, the California school’s director of athletics, visited Knute Rockne’s grave just as soon as they reached town Saturday morning . . . Bill Shakespeare and Wayne Millner seem like sure fire bets for All - American
berths. Three members of the AllAmerican Board, Frank Thomas, of Alabama, Howard Jones, and Elmer Layden were present at Saturday’s spectacle and saw the glorious performances of the two Irish stars . . . Villanova 21 - Temple 14. The Notre Dame system as taught by Harry Stuhldreher vs. the Warner system as taught by the “old fox” himself. If the score had been reversed in the tilt between the two Pennsylvanian elevens, it is more than likely that you’d be reading an article in the near future on the superiority of the Warner system over the Notre Dame plan of attack . . . Princeton is the “tops” in eastern football gatherins and seems likely to go undefeated until they hit Army midway in their ‘sweeticide* schedule next fall... As far as this corner is concerned, Pittsburgh is the class of the east.
ALL-AMERICANS
During a heated controversy between Jack Robinson, last year’s AllAmerican center, and this pillar of wrongcasting as to relative merits of this player and that, the question of the All-American Board’s All-American can up for discussion. Robinson ventured to say that he could at this date select the team which in all likelihood will be chosen by the Board. It is selected, of course, from only those players who received merit cards during the season. Here’s Jack’s eleven. Hold on to it and compare it with the Board’s team when it is released on Dec. 8.
Moscrip _____________LE___________ Stanford
Lutz ----------------LT___________ California
Wetsel --------------LG________ So. Methodist'
Jones ---------------C------------ Ohio State
Smith ---------------RG___________Ohio State
Widseth -------------RT__________ Minnesota
Millner _____________RE________ Notre Dame
Parker --------------QB--------------- Duke
Shakespeare ---------LH-------- Notre Dame
Berwanger____________RH____________ Chicago
Albanese ------------FB----------- Syracuse
SCORECASTS
This is being written Wednesday morning and we are going to press, so our selections this week will include Thanksgiving Day Games. Here comes the junk and stuff.
Colgate to beat Brown.
Fordham to beat New York University.
North Carolina to beat Catholic University.
Syracuse to beat Maryland
Pennsylvania to beat Cornell.
Pittsburgh to beat Carnegie Tech.
Temple to beat Bucknell.
SATURDAY’S GAMES
Holy Cross to beat Boston College.
Princeton to beat Yale.
Dartmouth to beat Columbia.
Army to beat Navy.
Southern Methodist to beat Texas Christian.
SOUTHERN CALGAME (Continued from Page 15)
yard pass to Wally Fromhart who raced over the goal line for a score. Wally also made good the point after touchdown.
After advancing the ball into Irish territory, the Trojan march was stopped and afield goal was attempted. Dick Pfefferle blocked this kick so completely that it bounded from the Notre Dame 36 to the Southern Cal 44 yard line. Within a minute after the kick was blocked, Notre Dame scored again when Wally Fromhart faded back to midfield and threw a bullet-like pass to Millner on his own goal line. After one of the most spectacular catches of his career, Millner went over for the second Irish score. Wally Fromhart again converted the extra point.
Toward the last of the fourth quarter, Southern Cal was again pressing dangerously into Irish territory and it seemed that nothing could stop the forward march that would win the game for the West coast team. Then Wally Fromhart, proving conclusively that he has been underrated all season, intercepted a Trojan pass on his own ten yard line and took the ball for an 82 yard jaunt that threw the Southern Cal team into confusion and gave Notre Dame the ball on the Trojan eight yard line on the west side of the field. It seemed the perfect time for a quarterback sneak that would heap more laurels on Wally, but he called for Shakespeare to play right half and in the resulting left end sweep Notre Dame cinched its victory. The extra point was not converted.
- INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 16)
up as an outstanding Irish player. In that game he kicked both points after touchdown and after booting the ball on the kickoff streaked down field to drop the receiver in his tracks.
When June rolls around and Ken receives his sheepskin, he intends to hurry back to Clairton to enter his chosen field of coaching. At present he is an inmate of Sorin sub where he takes life easy.
■ The Sc h o I a s t i c
KEOGAN HISTORY (Continued from Page 17)
ably the greatest Coach Keogan has • ever turned out the team of 1931-32 with the great combination of Krause, Voegele, and Crowe is recognized as one of the greatest aggregations ever to appear in Notre Dame uniforms.
The 1931-32 season started out rather weakly from the view point of Notre Dame. In its first four games the eagers registered only two victories over weak opponents but this is now easily explained as “Moose” Krause, then a Sophomore, was just recovering from strenuous football season. When “Moose”’ regained his form the Irish swept to victory over sixteen strong opponents in succession and compiled the greatest single season winning streak that has yet to be equalled. This season saw Krause attain his first All-American rating that was to continue for two more years.
Ed “Moose” Krause was, however, not only the great star turned out by Keogan while coaching at Notre Dame. The four great Crowe brothers, Clem, Francis, Norbert, and Leo, playing over a period of eleven years, gained national recognition as did Ed Smith, giant guard, who was chosen All-Western for three years in succession.
It seems that every year George Keogan comes up with some new record in basketball. The 1933-34 squad did its share in this record making by being the first team in Notre Dame basketball history to win 20 games in one season. The first eleven games of this season were all Irish victories and when added to the victories in the last eleven games of the 1932-33 season formed the largest winning streak in Notre Dame cage annals, a total of 22 consecutive victories.
George Keogan, now entering his thirteenth year as basketball coach at Notre Dame, has gained great prominence in national circles but his fame is most widely known in this state, the cradle of modern basketball. Each year cage coaches from all sections come to his “clinic” in the early season to hear Keogan’s explanations of the new rules and new systems of play and return to their schools to benefit from his observations.
McDONOUGH'S GLASSES
During the recent lake duckings Robert McDonough lost his glasses. If anyone knows the whereabouts of the McDonough spectacles please see him in Howard Hall.
ITALIAN CLUB
. Members of the Italian club attended Holy Communion in a body at a Thanksgiving day Mass, yesterday, in memory of the mother of the Rev. Arthur Joseph Hope, C.S.C., club chaplain, who died recently.
At the regularly bi-monthly meeting of the club held in Carroll Rec., Wednesday night, Joseph Mangelli read a paper in Italian entitled, “What Italy has Done in the Last Ten Years.”
August Petrillo, senior law student, followed this with an analytical study on the Ethiopian situation, “The Outlook on the Ethiopian War.”
Treasurer Enrico di Brienza outlined the financial needs of the organization, and gave a financial report of the first two months of the year.
Professor Staunton, Professor Pir-chio, and the Rev. Eugene Moriarty, C.S.C., were faculty members present.
Adam Walsh, captain of the Notre Dame team of 1924 which boasted the membership of the “four horsemen,” is making good as the football coach of Bowdoin College. The former member of the Yale coaching staff brought his club to a championship in his first year. The authorities of the Maine school are so well pleased with him that he has been offered a three-year contract.
JOHN HOPKINS STRUGGLES FOR BALL—STANFORD GAME, 1934
November 2 9, 1935
Twenty-one
ALBION GAME *
(Continued from Page 14) ling combines in the annals of University basketball. Many of these candidates -will, no doubt, see plenty of action on the impending schedule, and will keep the varsity going at top speed in the fight for starting assignments.
Even though the Irish annexed but thirteen contests in 1935, they are slated to be much stronger in their future battles. Coach Keogan will be attempting to better his all-time percentage mark of .765, in the matter of wins, and would like nothing more than to commence activities with a flashy victory. Albion, in their early practice stages, have exhibited a remarkable improvement over last year’s quintet, and perhaps may prove to be a formidable opponent for Notre Dame.
The visitors will pit the same net-ters against the Irish as those who played last December, with the exception of the pivot man. After taking on Albion the Gold and Blue will meet a series of double-headers with small colleges, while on December' 16, the much-feared Northwestern Wildcats will be encountered in the gymnasium.
Notre Dame first engaged Albion’s hardwood representatives three years ago, and in that space of time the Green have captured a trio of triumphs. The most notable of these was in 1933, when Ed Krause and his mates overwhelmed the Dougherty , lads, 48 to 25.
CAMPUS OPINION
(Continued from Page 8)
U. S., the Fighting Irish of Notre /'Dame.”
' Bill Nardone, Corby: “I would select the winner of next week’s game between Southern Methodist and Texas Christian to go to the Rose Bowl. While neither of these outfits have the trying schedule Notre Dame has in the way of high calibre opponents, their task is just as difficult considering the murderous twelve game schedule they are playing. Both of them have colorful squads and neither lacks ability to upset the Pacific coast nominee if they should be picked.”
Jack Loritsch, Sorin: “Minnesota would be my choice if the regulations of the “Big Ten” allowed teams in its Conference to play in the Rose Bowl game. The “Gophers” are too strong a team in all departments of the game to lose to Stanford or California.”
Steve Condon, Carroll: “The Jungletown boys of dear old Nassau are my choice if Notre Dame is not invited, because they are well-coached, have a veteran line and backfield, have lost only one game in three years, and form, in my opinion, the best team in the country.”
Twenty-two
Two Groups Reveal Plans For Scholarship Awards
Two new graduate scholarships are being offered to seniors in the various colleges throughout the country this year. One is offered by a group of Harvard Alumni clubs and the other by the Social Science Research council.
Twenty-seven alumni clubs of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration will recommend candidates for two scholarships of §300.00 each to be awarded by the Harvard Business School Alumni Association.
The recipients of these scholarships will enter the school in January, taking the regular first-year program, and will continue their studies until August 12. If their work has been satisfactory, they will be eligible to enter the regular second-year work in September and graduate the following June. The scholarships will be granted on the basis of scholastic standing and financial need of the applicant. Total school expenses, including tuition, board, and room, approximate $1,000.00.
Additional assistance is available, to students of this session through the six Service Scholarships of $300.00 each to be awarded by the school. Students whose scholastic standing is satisfactory at midyear are eligible to borrow $300.00 from the School Loan Fund to defray a part of the expenses.
The Social Science Research Council announces a new type of fellowship for which college seniors may apply. It is granted to first-year graduate students who wish to devote themselves to professional careers in economics, government, history, or the other social sciences.
The fellowships provide a basic stipend of $1,000.00, plus tuition and an allowance of one round trip between the Fellow’s home and his selected place of study. No appointee may choose the institution from which he received his bachelor’s degree for further study.
The basis of selection will be full academic and personal records of the candidates, letters from instructors, and written examinations which will be submitted through the College Entrance Examination Board, including the reading of French and German, elementary mathematics, and social sciences.
Seniors who are interested should have a letter sent from the dean of the department in which he has pursued his major undergraduate study to The Fellowship Secretary, The Social Science Research Council, 230 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y. The closing date for the receipt of applications on blanks secured from the. Fellowship Secretary is March 15, 1936.
FOUNDER'S MASS (Continued from Page 6)
. cians of France to establish a seminary in Maryland, and one of their first three students was the French seminarian, Stephen Badin.
On May 25, 1793, he became the first Catholic priest ordained within the limits of the original thirteen states of the union, and was assigned to do pioneer missionary work in Kentucky.
Father Badin came north, bought a section of land around Ste. Marie des Lacs from the U. S. government, built a rude log church in 1830, and conveyed it to the Bishop of Vincennes, which through him was dedicated in the interest of education to the Church.
Upon his death, Father Badin was buried in the cathedral crypt at Cincinnati, but in 1904 with the permission of Archbishop Elder, the body was moved to Notre Dame and reposes in the replica of the log church on the campus.
In 1842, Father Sorin, in the midst of the most terrific winter since 1607 —snow fell fifteen inches deep as far south as Georgia—arrived at Notre Dame, just north of the villages of South Bend and Iron Works (now Mishawaka), population 1,000, in which there were only 20 Catholic families.
Within two years a temporary college was built, and Alexis Coquillard, who on Nov. 26, 1842 led Father Sorin from South Bend to Lake St. Mary became its first student.
All the blessings which the venerable founder of the University prayed for on that feast day of St. Andrew the Apostle, lie engendered in this University with its 2,722 students, 13 residence halls, and representing a physical investment of millions of dollars — all subordinate to the main thought of Father Sorin symbolized by Sacred Heart church and the statue of Our Lady atop the Dome.
MUSICAL UNITS
(Continued from Page 5)
was paid to Joe Sullivan, captain of this year’s football team, when the Glee club sang “Ave Maria” in his memory. The club also sang “The Cardinal and Gold” as a welcome to the members of the Southern California football squad. The Rev. Michael Shea, composer of the music for the “Victory March,” was present at the broadcast with Father O’Donnell.
In a recent letter to Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the University Glee Club, Mr. Edward T. Caswall, advertising manager of the Climalene Company, said of the recent broadcast which the club made for that company from Chicago: “I’ve listened to many glee clubs on the air, but none with diction so clear?’
The Scholastic
ROOSEVELT RECEPTION
(Continued from Page 5)
pine’s Day was planned as a tribute to the new island republic of the Pacific when Manuel L. Quezon, was inaugurated president on Nov. 15. First planned for that date, the observance was postponed by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, after he learned that-President Roosevelt would like to participate personalaly in the tribute to this Latin Republic.
The primary plan for taking care of 100,000 people, who will try to secure a momentary view of the president as he drives htrough South Bend for the first time, have been formulated with the organization of a civic relations committee. The committee will be headed by Bernard J. Voll, president of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association and head of the Sibley Machine Company of South Bend. Among his co-workers on plans for the occasion are Mayor George W. Freyermuth of South Bend, the Hon. Samuel B. Pettengill, U. S. representative from Indiana, and 50 other leading business and professional men.
Tentative plans have been made for decorating the presidential route of approach to the University, for having various bands play along the way, and for controlling automobile and pedestrian traffic. Awaiting the approval of Colonel E. W. Starling of Washington, who supervises all details for presidential appearances, all arrangements are temporary.
According to present plans, ceremonies will start at the University promptly at 2:30 o’clock on the afternoon of Dec. 9 with a dedicatory address by Father O’Hara. Mr. Romulo will then be awarded his degree. To close one of the most important events ever witnessed by the University or by the city of South Bend, Cardinal Mundelein will introduce President Roosevelt who will address the audience in the gymnasium.
ROSE BOWL
(Continued from Page 14)
favor of playing Notre Dame in the -contest. A student poll conducted early this week showed that 90% of the students in the Palo Alto University desired to see the Irishmen travel out to the coast this year.
Howard Jones, Southern California coach, aided in sweeping coast sentiment toward Notre Dame when he declared that Notre Dame was one of the greatest teams he has seen play this season.
The Athletic Board of this school has not as yet declared themselves as being in favor of Notre Dame participating in this classic but some action will be taken at an early date if an official bid is received.
Fitzgerald Lecture Series
Resumed During Past Week
Desmond Fitzgerald resumed his lecture course at the University Monday after being treated in St. Joseph hospital in South Bend for the past month because of a mastoid condition.
Mr. Fitzgerald’s course will not be extended but will be terminated at
Desmond Fitzgerald
He returns to campus.
the time originally scheduled for the conclusion of the course. Students, it was announced Tuesday, will receive full credit for the course.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
“Cures at Lourdes” were discussed by Louis Gabriel, senior pre-med, at the regular meeting of the Academy of Science on Monday evening, Nov. 25. Gabriel treated this interesting subject principally from the medical aspect. In the open discussion that followed, the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., gave some interesting sidelights of Lourdes gained through a several days visit at this renowned shrine. In his remarks he stated that of the many replicas he has seen of this shrine, the grotto here at Notre Dame bears the greatest resemblance to the original at Lourdes.
- Arthur Hoffman, junior pre-med, presented an argument against evolution based on Homology. His talk caused a rather spirited barrage of questions and answers from the assembled members with Father Wenninger acting as a referee. The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 p.m.
PHILIPPINE STUDENTS (Continued from Page 11)
of the National Assembly in the successful independence government of Manuel Quezon, president of the Philippines. Signor E naje was a former judge of the Court of First Instance, which is inferior only to the Supreme Court. .
Jose A. Urquico,'LL.B., ’16, is the ex-govemor of the Province of Tar-lac, an important unit in the governmental set-up of the islands.
Prominent in the business affair of the islands is, Alfonso Zobel, Ph.B. in For.Com., ’24, president of Ayala and Cie, Manila, one of the largest sugar mills there, and who is a member of the board of directors of one of the two insuranace companies serving the Philippines.
Antonio Roxas, Ph.B.F.Com., ’26, is a wealthy sugar plantation owner as is Signor Zabarte.
Recent Philippine graduates are either touring Europe or else continuing their studies in other universities.
LATIN - AMERICAN CLUB
The culture of the Spanish speaking countries is being made available to the average American student through English translations of Spanish literature, as part of the activity of a new formed organization known as the Latin American Lectures club, with headquarters in Havana, Cuba.
The president of the new group is Dr. Jose Tremols, Commander of the Cuban Naval Reserves.	.
TUBERCULOSIS SEALS
During the week of Dec. 8 members of the Knights of Columbus will canvass the halls with Red Cross seals. If each student contributes from five to ten cents, about $200 can be realized. The largest sum previously collected was $310.73, in 1927.	•
The purpose of the seals is to continue the organized campaign against tuberculosis that has been carried on since 1903, when Einar Holboell, a Danish postal clerk, interested his government in the sale of stamps at Christmas time to build a hospital for tuberculous children. These seals, sold for one cent each, provide nursing, clinics, and open-air schools.
In 1932 tuberculosis cost the United States more than $46,000,000 for service conected compensation alone. The cost in human lives in 1933 was 74,836, but the death rate has steadily declined since 1900. The Red Cross organization has made this decline possible.
The modern young man wants to marry a girl who’ll make a good penthousewife. .
November 2 9, 1935
Twenty-three
HR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
K3TRE DAME, IND.
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.