THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
387
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LITERARY—NEWS WEEKLY PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
—ILLUSTRATED—
(Quagi temper Wturug : Vite (Quasi Crag JHoriturug
INDEX
PAGE
Winter Under the Dome______________________________________Frontispiece
The Week_____________________________________________________J. A. 389
Editorial _______________________________________________________ 395
The New Profession: Free-Time Guidance, ___________________________________Brother Barnabas, F.S.C., LL.D. 397
The Free-Time Worker and the School .—W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C. 399
Boy Guidance_________________________________________R. A. Hoyer 401
The Spirit of Notre Dame ______________________________Al J. July 404
International Boys Work Conference________________Echc. A. Walsh 406
Book Leaves_____________________________________Jos. P. Burke, ’25 411
Sports _________________________________________Toni Coman, ’25 412
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana.. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917, authorized Jane 25, 1918.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	389
Last week was the calm before the storm. Not that you are about to experience brilliant flashes and thundering pronouncements, but at least the prospects for this issue don’t look as black as the silhouette of the negro coal miner.
About the most prominent event of the interim was the Knights of Columbus initiation. Over eighty candidates rode the lamb in the Walsh Hall chambers Thursday night, and the same large and enthusiastic group galloped on the proverbial goat Sunday afternoon in the new South Bend home. A banquet was served to the new Knights and old members of the Council at the LaSalle following the initiation. Pat Manion, toastmaster, was relieved of much strain by the presence of Father Cavanaugh and Tim Galvin. Among the out-of-town guests at the initiation was Mr. McAuliffe of Chicago.
Creighton raised an alleged region of extreme tropical climate in four letters ending in “1” with the Notre Dame basketball team, keeping a double victory from escaping the confines of Omaha. Considering the caliber of Creighton, the marks chalked up against the local squad are not so black.
The Santa Maria, edited by Ray Cunningham, has appeared on the campus in conjunction with the appearance of the new Knights. Articles by Houdini, Rockne, Grantland Rice, and other celebrities of mental or physical wizardry keep the pages as lively as they can be and stay between the covers.
Examinations—nerves—worry—late hours of study—writer’s cramps — coffee — cramming despair — eye-strain — to think that those things are back in the moth-balls
for another quarter is a happy thought. And as usual, the examinations you studied so hard for were easy and the ones you had figured as pipes didn’t turn out to be meerschaums. .
The cinder paths get hot for the first time this year when the Varsity-Freshman handicap meet brings out the Irish Nurmis.. A-number of stiff meets have been scheduled for the Varsity and this first meet, and the Blue and Gold meet later, will give Notre Dame a lineup on the season’s prospects, which look good now.
Basketball fans are considerably grieved over the edict which has made the season’s best games a half-and-half proposition to accommodate the crowds. Those who are entitled to see the Illinois and Wabash games have been planning for years to see the Franklin and Butler games and vice versa.
Father Bolger’s mental pugilists battled through the finals of the preliminaries Monday night and are all set to attack or defend compulsory unemployment insurance in Indiana against the rest of the college world. Much new and stiff competition is reported in the debating- squads this year.
This is the Boy Guidance Number according to information which has leaked out- to us. We waited and waited for someone to come and guide this Week. They must have figured it had been guyed enough. Now that one is out, just suffer this one more—if this were the Misguidance Number we could probably write a much more appropriate Week. You will be detained no further from an investigation which will redeem your faith in reason.
And so—“Turn over!”
c
390
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Administration
Something of a shake-up may be expected to occur where classes have been slighted by men prominent in campus activities. The new schedule, listing each student’s class record, general ability, membership in clubs, athletics, and positions on publications, is being rapidly completed. (See Scholastic, Dec. 5). Deficiency in scholarship will mean curtailment of activities: the motto will be “Classes Before Clubs.”
---NDS---	•
“NDAA” will form the official monogram for members of the reserve football squad, according to a recent decision of the Athletic Board.
---NDS---
Rev. John H. Mullen, A. B. ’ll, was a recent visitor to the campus.
---NDS---
“Religion in Education” was the subject on which Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., spoke at Indianapolis a short time ago. A conference called by the Superintendent of Education was the occasion. Father Cavanaugh’s address was quoted widely as a scholarly and authoritative contribution to educational thought.
---NDS
Rev. Dr. John M. Cooper, professor of Sociology at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., was a guest at Notre Dame on Tuesday. This is his first visit to the University. Doctor Cooper put in a busy day renewing friendships, addressing the students in the Boy Guidance Department, and investigating with particular interest the manner in which the religious welfare of Notre Dame is safeguarded.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INITIATE
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus completed the initiation of a class of more than eighty members last Sunday afternoon in the South Bend Coun
cil chambers. It was one of the most successful classes to enter the Notre Dame Council.
Following the initiation a banquet was held in honor of the initiates in the College Inn of the Hotel La Salle. The speaker of the evening was the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former president of the Unievrsity. He delivered a splendid address which was entitled “Tremendosities.” Mr. Timothy P. Galvin, LL. B., T6, gave a charming talk that was well received. The Notre Dame Glee Club Quartette composed of Messrs. Cook, Butler, Myers and Haley sang a few selections, and the Council’s orchestra, the Knightingales, furnished music throughout the evening.
The toastmaster of the evening was Prof. Clarence Manion, LL. B., ’22. The Rev. James Gallagan, Chaplain of Notre Dame Council, offered the Invocation.
Harry McGuire, John A. Elliott and Mark Nolan were in charge of the affair.
S. A. C. Notes
Mr. E. F. Klee, representing the Radiotone Company, whose business is “photography on metal,” attended the S.A.C. meeting held in the Library Wednesday, January 21.
He proposed that the memorial to the national football champions take the form of individual and group pictures in metal of the team, these to be placed together on one large metal plaque. A small plate will be placed under each picture telling the player’s name and class, and in the center of the plaque, a suitable inscription.
Before taking any definite action, the S.A.C. asked that sample pictures be made of Coach Rockne and Captain Walsh. This work is being done now.
Another idea for the memorial is that of Mr. Thompson of the Art Department. He suggests the erection of a bronze tablet and upon it a representation of the team in action, an inscription and the names of the players and their class.
Whatever kind of memorial is finally chosen, the cost will be approximately five hundred dollars. To defray this expense a collection will be made in all the halls and from the Day Students on a designated day. A contribution of at least twenty-five cents from each student will be necessary. Should there be any surplus it will be diverted to the Gipp Memorial Fund.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	391
VARSITY DEBATING TEAMS PICKED
The ten men who will compose the varsity debating team have been picked from among the sixty contestants who tried for places on the squad, it was announced yesterday by Father Bolger, coach of debating. Competition for places has been very keen this year and the men who have been finally chosen to represent Notre Dame should maintain the enviable record which the debating teams of the past have established.
The members of the debating teams are: Ray Cunningham, William Coyne, Oscar Lavery, Joseph Hogan, Victor Lemmer, David Stanton; with the following serving as alternates: Seymour Weisberger, John Droege, John Griffin, and John Daly. The selection of men for the teams is only tentative, as an alternate who shows ability may at any time replace one of the six men chosen. It has not yet been decided which of the men shall debate the affirmative side of the question and which the negative, according to Father Bolger.
The question which the team will debate this season is the following. Resolved: “that Indiana should adopt in principle the Wisconsin plan of unemployment insurance, Constitutionality waived.”
With five members of last year’s team debating again this year, the prospects for a good season are bright. The first debate will be held on March 6, a triangular engagement between Notre Dame, De Pauw, and Wabash. On March 18, Notre Dame meets Earlham in a dual debate, and on March 27, engages in another dual debate with Western Reserve.
VILLAGERS’ POST-EXAM DANCE TO-NIGHT
Time still remains to celebrate the close of the first semester in a fitting Terpsicho-rean manner this Saturday night at The Villagers’ Post Exam. Dance to be held at the new K. of C. home, advises the president, Mansiel Haggerty.
Special entertaining features, including the Druids nine-piece band, have been arranged. Tickets are on sale on the campus and at the door at the usual price of $1.50.
Music
The first Glee Club concert of the year -was given in Hammond, Indiana, Monday evening, Jannayy 26, at the Parthenon Theatre. The house was sold out the day of the concert, two thousand tickets being taken. The program was as follows:
PART I.
1.	Modettes (a) “Laudate Pattern”Gounod (b) “O Bone Jesu”_________________Palestrina.
Part-Song (c) “Matona, Lovely Maiden”
di Lasso-Davidson Glee Club.
2.	Baritone Solo____________Roses of Picardy
Mr. George Koch.
3.	Part-Songs (a) “Song of the Volga Boatmen” (Russian)arr. by Bantock
(b) “Love’s Benediction” (Irish)
The Londonderry Air_arr. by Silver (c) “Loch Lomond” (Scotch)
arr. by Forswth, Glee Club.
4.	Specialty—Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher, Rex Enright.
PART II.
5.	Motet (a) Easter Processional_____Browne Carol (b) “Lo, How a Rose”___________
Praetorius-Davison Part-song (c) “Old King Cole”-----Forsyth Glee Club.
6.	Quartet Selected'
Glee Club Quartet.
7.	Part-songs (a) “Going Home”—Dvorak-Fisher (b) “Love’s Old Song”__________Molloy-Parke
(c) “Hike, Notre Dame”Casasanta Glee Club.
A short dance was given at th eK. of C. Club following the concert. The Club left Hammond by special car at 11:30, Monday night.
The arrangements for the concert were handled by “Tim” Galvin, ’16, of Hammond.
Two concerts were given on the campus by the Glee Club during the past week. Tuesday night, January 20, the Club sang for the Sisters of St. Edward’s Hall and the infirmary at the Convent. The Sisters served a lunch to the Club following the songs.
The Club also sang for the Minims of St. Edward’s Hall adn the members of the Congregation in the Novitiate and Seminary, Saturday afternoon, January 24, in Washington Hall. The regular program was given in both cases.
The Glee Club will leave South Bend Saturday, January 31, for the winter trip through Michigan and Wisconsin.
392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SANTA MARIA MAKES PORT
With the anchoring of the “Santa Maria” in port during the past week, its skipper, Ray Cunningham, has surrendered the ship’s papers, so that the K. C.’s of the nation in general, and the “Caseys” in particular, may glance over his cargo of manuscripts.
In making up the cargo of the “Santa Maria,” unusual pains were taken by its captain to have its hold contain timely articles of both local and national appeal. With this in mind, the official publication of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, makes its first venture of the school year. Articles by Dr. James J. Walsh, Houdini, Grantland Rice, George Trevor and K. K. Rockne feature the issue.
Dr. James J. Walsh, author of “The Thirteenth Greatest of Centuries,” and “The World’s Debt to the Catholic Church,” has contributed the outstanding article of prominence entitled: “Education' Through Contact of Minds,” a philosophic discussion on the plan of education sponsored by Newman.
Captain Ray Cunningham and his crew of sailors are to be congratulated upon this this years voyage of the Santa Maria.
The Boy Guidance Department
St. Casimir’s Young Men’s Club will hold a dance February -5. Hogan Morrissey is directing the activities of the club. They are working on a minstrel show to be produced after Lent. McNeil is assistant supervisor of the club.
---nds----
St. Patrick’s basketball team of last year established somewhat of a record, having lost but one game out of twenty-five. Coach Connelly predicts that this year’s team will do even better than that. To date they have defeated Valparaiso, Washington School, and several other teams of less ability.
---NDS----
Ken Cook is coaching the Day Dogs and has developed a fast aggressive team. Tom Murphy is coaching the St. Joseph’s school team.
---NDS----
Eben MacKenzie, secretary to Brother Barnabas, returned to the University this week after spending some time in New York and New Haven.
Al Kirk’s scout troop at St. Hedwige’s church attended Mass and received Communion in a body Sunday January 18. The troop basketball team coached by Ken Cook, defeated St. Patrick’s scout team and St. Joseph’s school team.	..
---NDS----
That a marked social development has taken place in the hall is attested by the fact that a majority of the men were present at the dance which the South Bend K. of C. Council tendered the Notre Dame Knights.
---NDS----
Mr. Leonard O’Connell, of Rochester, N. Y., was a visitor on the campus for a few hours Sunday as the guest of Dan Culhane.
---nds----
Mr. Ray Hoyer read a paper before the MidWest Division of the Boy’s Club Federation in convention in Chicago, Friday, January 23. Harry Stuhldreher, who accompanied Mr. Hoyer, spoke at the Older Boy’s Banquet.
---NDS----
H. McNeil accompanied the hockey team to Culver last Saturday.
---NDS----
Brother Constantine and John Contway conducted several tests this week in the Y. M. C. A. pool for the members of the Notre Dame Scout troop No. 1. They also gave an exhibition of their prowess in the water. •
---NDS----
A Belgian Young Men’s Club has been formed at Sacred Heart Church under the supervision of Cyril Burchell. • The club has a membership of twenty-five. A dance has already been planndd for February 12.
---NDS----
Mr. C. J. Atkinson, Executive Secretary of the Boys’ Club Federation, New York City, gave two talks before the members of the Boy Guidance course. Mr. Atkinson has been engaged in work with boys for over fifty years.
'	---NDS----
Messrs. Cook, July and McNeil were initiated into the Knights of Columbus last Sunday. Graduate Hall is now practically 100 per cent K. of C.
---nds----
Romeo Leclerc is making a special study of Scouting, as carried on in France, Switzerland, Belgium, and England. A similar study will later be made of Italy and other foreign countries.
*	—J. D. CULHANE.



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	393
«
From Boyhood To Manhood
CHARLES V. LACEY
THE adolescent boy is an interesting study. His whims, his joys and sorrows, his seeming-inconsistencies, reveal to those who care to make the study, the wonderful work of nature in the fashioning of her raw material, boy, into her finished product.
At the outset of puberty certain physical changes become manifest in the boy. The lengthening of his vocal cords bring about a change of voice, and for a time he is in agony; when he speaks he can not be certain that his voice will be a “he-voice,” for now and then, when least desired, he finds himself swinging into what he terms a “sissy” squeak. He develops rapidly, this development being accompanied by hair growing in his face and body. He grows, seemingly, by leaps and bounds. He centers his interest upon some man whom he chooses as his hero, usually one whose physical strength or athletic skill makes him stand out above other men of the boy’s acquaintance. This man becomes at once his idol and his ideal.
The boy, up to this point an individualist, now wants to associate with other boys and to play “team” games. This instinctive desire brings the “gang” into existence. But in the gang perfect harmony does not prevail. The gang soon devides, (but does not separate), itself into the “gang” proper* and the “kids,” much as in the army the recruit is differentiated from the soldier who has been “through the mill” and has graduated from the “rookie” stage.
While in the gang stage the boy becomes sexconscious, but, far from being attracted to the other sex, he despises and shuns them, and characterizes anything related to girl life as “sissystuff.” None of that for him. He wants to roam and hunt, hike, and play “He-man” games with the gang. What good are girls, anyhow?
Then middle adolescence comes upon him. What a change! He grows overnight and takes on a manly form—at least he thinks it is. He becomes all hands and feet, and his muscular movements are more or less ungainly. And he demands long pants, looks in the mirror at the heavy down upon his face and wonders if he dares use dad’s razor. But, more marvelous than all else, he begins to “doll up.”
What has happened? Our girl-hater has discovered that the girls whom only yesterday he avoided are rather attractive. He wants to make an impression on them, particularly the “one” girl who has caught his fancy. But he is bashful and shy, and loss of voice, or at least impediment in speech, is his portion when he summons up “nerve” to speak to her. He’s in love! Yes, and
in the course of the next year or two, he will discover that he has been in love several times, each time with a different girl.
This is the “puppy-love” stage the most beautiful and the most terrifying period of his life. He is “razzed” by the younger* folks, particularly those of his own family, and he’s hopelessly uncertain as to his “stand-in” with the “one” girl of the moment. During this stage he forms ideals of conduct toward girls and women.
And right here the boy-worker can be of inestimable service. To encourage and develop these ideals and to fix them firmly into the boy’s character at this time is the boy-worker’s chief duty, so that, passing into manhood, the boy will take these ideals with him as an integral part of himself. The boy will be a man.
All boys are alike—yet each boy is different from every other boy. The boy-worker who appreciates this, and has the patience and skill to treat each boy as a particular case, will ultimately reap his reward in the satisfaction of knowing that society has turned over to him a boy and he has given back to society a man.
THE PIONEER CLASS IN “BOYOLOGY”
ALFRED J. CONNOLLY
Mid-year examinations bring to a close the first half year of the pioneer class in “Boyology” at Notre Dame.
Twenty-four serious minded young men, graduates of nearly a score of colleges, and representing Archdioceses from Massachusetts to Iowa, in the United States, and from Nova Scotia to Alberta in Canada, are gathered together in “The little white house at the side of the campus,” all with one object in view... that of serving the youth of this continent that it may grow into full continent that it may grow into full Christian Manhood.
The months of September and October-found things in a formative and experimental stage. Starting the course of instruction with a quartet of Notre Dame graduates as. a nucleus of the student body to come, the outlook gradually took on a brighter hue with the almost daily arrival of future “Boyologists” from the foui- comers of this country and Canada.
At first, the members of the class were' widely scattered as to living conditions.
394
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Some found lodgings in South Bend, while the more fortunate early arrivals were quartered, temporarily, in the various campus dormitories. . . . awaiting the day when Notre Dame’s first home for graduate students should be ready for occupancy.
October 3, marked the formal opening of ‘‘Graduate Hall,” and no time was lost by the class in moving into their new home, situated on the north-eastern corner of the campus, near Sophomore Hall.
Complete organization was immediately undertaken. The following were elected to serve as house officers for the first semester: President, Jim Egan, Notre Dame; Vicepresident, Cyril Burchell, St. Francis Xavier, (Canada); Treas.-Sec., Hogan Morrissey, Ohio State; Sgt. at Arms, Romeo Le Clerc, Westmount, (Canada), and Historian, Alfred J. Connolly, Georgetown.
That we are well organized may be attested by the fact that Graduate Hall is represented by basketball and hockey teams in the Inter-Hall leagues, several of the students of the course are regular contributors to the Scholastic, Notre Dame’s weekly chronicler of events, besides the Hall is furnishing officials for the Inter-Hall matches, and has taken a prominent place in student and campus activities.
Graduate House is conveniently situated to all parts of the University proper, and a very comfortable place in which to live. A victrola and piano, supplemented by house musicians in the form of cornet, flute, •banjo and drum artists, in addition to a fund of vocal talent, serve to add to the “homey” atmosphere.
A dream of many years has borne fruit. The life long ambition of Brother Barnabas, F. S. C., in whose brain “Boy Guidance” was conceived, and who has been the leading spirit in the movement, has been realized. When our pioneer class passes through the portals of Notre Dame, the record of our achievement together with other glorious achievements, will beam upon Our Lady of the Dome as a brilliant sun—and that sun is just dawning.
Education Through Play
THOMAS J. MURPHY.
ACCORDING to the Bureau of Education, the average child spends less than two hours a day in school, if we consider holidays, vacations, absences through sickness and so forth. Assuming that the child has indulged in nine hours of sleep and spends three hours at meals and household tasks, we have a rather surprising remainder of ten hours of unorganized time, which the child employs at his own discretion. Can we afford to neglect the ten hours a child spends outside of school?
It should be remembered that play is the most real world with the child. Here friendships are formed, ideals are adopted, character built, and habits are acquired for better or worse. We have no right to be satisfied with our educational system, until the problem of the ten hours of unorganized time is solved by playgrounds, scout troops, camps, clubs and many such activities. If we want the child to have a complete education we must take a most vital interest in its playl time.
Whatever theory we adopt as to the meaning of play, the fact is that play is a preparation for life. We have been woefully slow in 1'ecognizing the value of play for building a better and healthier citizenship. The games of children can be used not only to enlarge their lungs, straighten their backs, and toughen their muscles, but also as character builders for social and civic virtues.
In play and games, children are taught, without knowing that they are learning lessons, how to get on with their neighbors. They learn patience and forebearance and self-respect. They learn how to await their turn and to be fair and honest, to lose with good humor and to care for the game more than the prize. The game teaches them the valuable life lesson that persistency of effort wins success; that practice makes perfect.
Besides co-ordination of eye, hand and brain, the success that comes from “team play” teaches the value of co-operation in the larger activities of life, while respect for the law of the game, learned on the playground initiates youth into the much-needed lesson of respect for the laws of the land. Lawlessness, whether in play or civic life brings disaster and defeat.
Our educational system has been slow in grasping the full possibilities in the play impulses of youth, that will utilize to the full the recreations of youth as builders of a better citizenship.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	395
THE “BOY GUIDANCE NUMBER”
The Scholastic is pleased to present this “Boy Guidance Number” to its readers. The articles included in this issue are the work of the instructors and students in the Boy Guidance Department of the University.
“Boyology,” a new course at Notre Dame, is deserving of every encouragement and co-operation. The men who are here being-trained for the new profession of Boy Guidance will hold positions of vital import to future American manhood, especially American Catholic manhood. To these men, probably more than to her engineers, her journalists, or her lawyers, Notre Dame will look for moulders of her future student bodies. These men will in some community be the hero and model of Catholic boys, and they will be Notre Dame men, admired and judged as such.
The Catholic Church has long experienced the need for an organized system of boy guidance. The Y. M. C. A., the Boy Scouts, and other similar organizations for boys have monopolized the field of organized boy training, and supervision. To remedy this and to provide an organization . to care for the Catholic youth, Boy Guidance as a profession has been instituted. The presence of a splendid faculty and an excellent pioneer class of distinctly superior students at Notre Dame indicates that the dream of Boy Guidance has become a reality.
The editors of the Scholastic congratulate Brother Barnabas, founder and pioneer of Boy Guidance, for the success which has marked his efforts. If, by publishing this “Boy, Guidance Number,” they are assisting him and his associates they consider them
selves fortunate to be privileged to aid much worthy and important work.—J.w.s.
PREVENTION VS. CURE
Criminals are costing the nation millions of dollars every year, and the sad fact is that the majority of crimes are committed by boys between the ages of seventeen and twenty four. Thus there are thousands of children in school at the present time who will be confirmed criminals tomorrow. -
To the boy worker this presents a problem that demands immediate attention. His main object is to prevent crime and criminal tendencies. We realize that many of the young people who are to-day thronging the juvenile courts showed characteristics long before they came into the courts, which, if recognized and treated correctly, might have been checked in time to prevent them from leading criminal lives.
The aim of the boy worker is to help-these children before they get into trouble,, and root out the bad tendencies. The medical profession is doing great work in this, modern age in preventing disease trying to cure before the preventive stage has. been passed. Epidemics and similar evils, have been practically eliminated from society. Similarly in the case of the problem-of our youth, we should adopt preventivemeasures.	•
Perhaps all crime will not be eliminated;, but at least many of the children who are-not up to standard in mental and moral capacity can be saved and made useful citizens if they are treated in time. Those who cannot be corrected should be placed in proper institutions where their environment
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
will be pleasant, and they will not constitute a menace to society.
If delinquent boys could be shown, in time, the error of their ways, and if defectives could be removed to institutions where their difficulties could be sympathetically taken care of, great savings of money as well as time and worry would result. Modern social workers would do well to bear in mind the old axiom: “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”—H. m.
HERO WORSHIP
MANY of us will recall without difficulty, the case of an athlete of national prominence who unfortunately was “hitting the high spots,” and harvesting the usual results. The facts of his case were broadcasted over our nation through the medium of the press until nearly all • followers of sport were cognizant of what was taking place. The man continued this life, until some conscientious person asked him if he realized to what extent, and in what manner, his actions were affecting the boys of our country. Did he realize that one of the country’s heroes was falling to shame, shattering the ideal of thousands of boys? And if we will think back but a few years we will remember that this man pulled himself together, and fully reestablished himself as a man, worthy of the trust, faith, enthusiasm, and devotion of thousands of boys.
Now, we can all realize what a great force it was that called this man back to the path of right living. It was the hero worship of the American boy, that hero worship which usually demands of its hero, striking, pulsing, dramatic, physical exploits.
The hero worship of boys is not confined to any special type of man, although one of superior physical strength or athletic ability is usually the type •chosen as the boys ideal. . Power, strength, and authority have a special appeal to them. '
The environment of the boy plays a large part in his choice of a hero. The boy will chose the wrong man, just as readily as the right. Among our poorer classes, where opportunities knock but seldom, and sometimes not at all, the boy often •choses as his hero, some tough or rough gangster, and tries his best to follow in the footsteps of this mis-guided, unfortunate individual. Such a procedure often leads to delinquency, and from delinquency a sinking into the ranks of criminality. For this the environment is to a large extent culpable, and it is the duty of the community to correct such conditions, for the benefit of all concerned. If the boy must have a hero, society owes if tb him to see that he is afforded the opportunity
of chosing an upright, honest, God-fearing man, capable of giving good example to the boy.
The boy in his search for a hero is naturally strongly inclined to chose from those with whom he is in close association. Thus he is powerfully influenced by his parents, his friends, and his teachers. Thousands of boys make heroes of theii’ fathers, while others have chosen their* teachers. Before long we hope for an increase in the supply of “heroes,” with the increased spread of suitably trained and carefully chosen “Boyologists.”
The parents of boys are the ones primarily concerned with the welfare of their children, theirs is the God-given right anti privilege to supervise and direct the correct and wholesale rearing of their offspring. Realizing their children’s need for a hero, it is their duty to try to instill in the boy’s mind an idea of the proper kind of hero. It is their further duty to have men of varying careers visit their home to enable the boy to learn of the diverse types of men and to influence him in his choice of a career.
He who is chosen as a boy’s hero is indeed a fortunate man. Added zest is given to living and keener interest is taken in life. But such a man should never forget that as a model for boys he has a sacred duty to perform; that in giving good example he will not harm the boy either as an individual or as a member of society.—H. J. D.
THE STAFF
J. W. SCALLAN
Editor
JOHN F. STOECKLEY
News Editor
TOM COMAN
Sports Editor
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG Literary Editor
GERALD HOLLAND
Ass’t Literary Editor
THE NEWS
JOHN GALLAGHER LESTER GRADY MARK NEVILS WILLIAM DOOLEY JOHN CULLINAN
DEPARTMENT
ANDREW MULREANY JAMES WITHEY WALTER HAECKER ALFRED MEYERS CARLOS D. LANE, JR.
THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT
HARRY A. McGUIRE R. C. CUNNINGHAM JOSEPH P. BURKE FRANCIS C. MILLER
ANSELM MILLER EUSTACE CULLINAN BERT V. DUNNE ALBERT SOMMER
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
CORBIN PATRICK
Business Manager
JAMES WITHEY
GEORGE J. SCHILL
Local Advertising Mgr. Foreign Adv. Manager
ALFRED DIEBOLD
Circulation Manager
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
CHARLES CASEY FRANKLIN CONWAY RUPERT WENTWORTH CHARLES CASH
GEORGE GERARD JOSEPH
LEROUX SMITH HILGER
DAVID HICKEY JOHN LOFTUS ROBERT ROY JOSEPH DUNN EDWARD BRODERICK ROBERT STRICKLE EDWARD CUNNINGHAM
DOROTHEUS MEINERT
ver^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
397
The Neu) Profession: Free Time Guidance
BROTHER BARNABAS, F.S.C., LL.D.
Executive Secretary, Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus.
During the colonial days the family was the all
important economic unit. Father and the boys
provided for the food needs by tilling the soil
BROTHER BARNABAS
and hunting in the woods; shelter was secured through family effort, with probably a neighbor or two helping by cutting logs and building a rude house. There were no expensive brick-layers or plasterers and plumbing was not dreamed of. The women of the family helped by cooking the raw products and by spinning and weaving the • flax into cloth, or sewing the furs into garments. Sometimes a wandering shoemaker spent several weeks
and made foot covering for the family; sometimes they had only the cured skins of animals fashioned
into moccasins. There were no factories and no
industries, except those of the village smith and the grist mill. Neither were there movies, concerts, nor theatres, and even neighborly gatherings were few. Each family was a self-sufficient unit, producing, preparing, and consuming in accordance with its limited needs. The family gathered around the open hearth on winter evenings and developed a close and unified home life based upon their isolation and the dependence of each member of the group upon the other.
During the sixties and the seventies our national life was still comparatively simple. While factory production now provided for certain necessities, the great period of industrial development had not yet taken place, and the social life of a community was still quite restricted. Social life centered about the life of the family and community life about the church. The home, with its large yard, afforded children an opportunity for physical exercise and play under the parental eye. There were “chores” to be done as carrying water, splitting wood, and working in the garden. Mothers had time to teach their daughters the art of housekeeping, and the boys generally followed in their father’s footsteps and learned his trade. The family life was deeply religious and the children were trained in a very strict manner.
To-day we are living in a time of tremendous
changes, industrial, social, and political. The age of quantity machine production, the result of epoch making inventions, has completely revolutionized the life that prevailed when this generation was young. Advances in steam and electric transportation and the automobile ; greater ease in communication through the telegraph, telephone, and lately the radio; flying above the earth and traveling beneath the waters, have brought the widely separated world of post civil war days closely together. A great world war has resulted in unusual conditions and its effects upon our manner of living will not be fully appreciated until many years have passed.
With the drawing together of the world and the advance of machine production have come large congested centers of population in certain districts. In these cities the ease and the tranquility of the small town life of a generation past have disappeared. Living quarters are more cramped, the big yard, the common, and the open field have disappeared. The gas and electric stove has made the wood pile unnecessary. Families have herded together in large buildings or apartments, where each has only a small space. The once peaceable streets have become vortexes of’ motor traffic, dnagerous alike to child and adult, as the daily accident shows. The automobile has revolutionized family life; intricate social activities and organizations have replaced the old time neighborhood group. And now we have the aeroplane and radio, the one almost annihilating space, the other eliminating time by making a reality instantaneous communication btween continent and continent soon no doubt to be extended around the globe.
The industrial revolution of the 19th century in blunging about the changed conditions in the home put further burdens upon the school. The function of the school, in the language of the technicians, is said to be “residual.’ ’ This means, first negatively, that the school should not attempt to teach anything which is being well taught by some other agency. For example, the school need not teach good manners if they are adequately taught at home. But positively, to say that the function of the school is residual means that everything worthy of being taught must be taught by the school unless adequately taken care of by some other agency. Hence when this radical transformation of the home occurred as a result of the introduction of the factory system in place of the old apprenticeship system, the burden fell upon the school to assume the training of the young in many matters which at one time were adequately taken care of by the parents in tlie home. As an illustration of this we have now commonly in the school curriculum so-called practical arts, i. e. household arts for the girls, sewing, cooking, nursing, etc., and manual arts for boys in the crafts like carpentry and the more modern developments of electricity and gas engines, etc.
398	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
But this has not been the only effect of the industrial revolution in bringing about changed conditions in the home and thereby increasing the burden of the school. Man is earning more today than ever before in history and is enjoying more things. He is better clothed, better housed in respect to conveniences, travels more, enjoys more books, magazines, and newspapers. This great increase in leisure, and hence in cultural needs, has put an added burden on the school so that it must train the individual for the avocation of leisure time as well as for the life vocation.
The question then presents itself, “Can the school alone carry the heavy burden that society is apparently placing upon it under these changed conditions?” And the further- question, “Are we not neglecting a great opportunity in failing to take advantage of this leisure time for educational purposes?” Hence the assertion of some that now there is need of a new agency, a group of men and women professionally trained in the guidance and leadership of children and adolescent boys and girls in the proper use of their free time.
Here seems to be the place to point out that the situation for boys is much more acute than it is for girls. No one, of course, will question that the
changed conditions just mentioned have created a real need for “girl guidance,” but in the case of the boy two situations have developed within our own lifetime that have in a real sense of the word robbed him of his birthright.
In the first place the introduction of the factory system in industry, the supplanting of the small shop by the department store, and the competitive life of professional as well as business men, has taken the man in the person of the father out of the boy’s life to the business and professional office. It is true, of course, that many women have entered into industry and gainful occupation in general, but the mother is the builder of the home and the girl is her helper. Companionship for the two is a very general fact even under the present day conditions. The same cannot be said for the father and the boy.	■
In the second place we have the feminized school. Figures for 1914 showed that in our public school system less than 20 per cent of the teachers were men. In the face of these two facts, then, it is evident that there is a very definite need to put forth effort to bring the man back into the life of the boy. In answer to this need have arisen the various boys’ free-time programs with which we are now becoming familiar.
FIELD WORK, HUDSON LAKE, INDIANA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	399
The Free-Time Worker and the School
W. F. CUNNINGHAM, C. S. C.
Director of School of Education.
ONE of the more recent developments in present day educational theory is recognition of the fact that education is not limited to the five hours, five days per week, spent by the child within the walls of the schoolroom. It is commonly agreed now that every activity worth while carrying at all, has educative value if properly1 directed.
Further, we have departed from Spencer’s inter- • pretation of the educative process as “preparation for future living.” The present-day emphasis is in accord with Dewey’s statement, “I believe that education is a process of living, and not a preparation for future living.” (My Pedagogic Creed, page 7.) All activities of the schoolroom should be able to justify themselves on their own merits and not base that justification upon deferred values of the future.
This is as true of activities carried on during the free-time as it is of those peculiar to the school. The former, however, present a special problem. With the invention of labor-saving machinery there has come a great increase in leisure, and we have failed to keep pace in developing an agency of control to capitalize this added opportunity for education. The activities of the freetime must be directed and controlled, however, if this leisure is to be valuable for life and worth while in itself. We may well speak, then, of “twenty-four hour education” and recognize that part of this twenty-four hour period may appropriately be referred to as “recreational education.”
In the problem of preparing leaders to conduct this recreational education, that is, free-time programs, there is much to be learned from the experience of the school. These two agencies, school and “free-time guidance,” have practically the same objectives, though with varying emphasis. This close correlation between school and free-time work emphasizes the fact that it is no mere accident that the department of Boy Guidance at the University of Notre Dame has been organized as a unit within the School of Education. Students following the course in this department are not preparing themselves to be “social workers” as the term is commonly used. Rather, they are to be Boys-work executives. As such they must be fully conversant with the problems of school and the methods of solution. Hence the first semester of the first year provides for an acquaintance of this kind by a course under the title, “Introduction to Education,” which all must follow unless their previous experience in school work makes this unnecessary.
With the history of the teaching profession before them, those who have been responsible for drawing up the two year curriculum in Boy Guidance have determined to set the standard high at the very outset. Hence, they have placed the course on a graduate basis. This perhaps beyond any other single feature will do more to professionalize the work and win the respect and confidence of practical workers in the field as well as the general public.
The students themselves following the program have many things to learn from the experience of the school. For example, in planning their programs of free-time activities they will find many a cue for guidance in similar problems which the school has had continually before it in constructing its curriculum. Take for example the matter of divisional points on the educational ladder. It is now generally recognized that the old eighth grade school is passe, and the four-year high school is already in the process of dissolution. The philosophy at the basis of this reorganization finds emphatic expression in the following, “This radical difference between childhood and adolescence makes it unwise to combine boys of twelve, and under with those over that age in class- or organization. There seems to be a greater gap between the boy of ten and the boy of fifteen than between the latter and the adult. No apparent economy of energy and space will justify the attempt to handle children and adolescents together.” (Studies in Adolescent Boyhood, page 10, B. M. Burr.) In the light of the above, the meaning of the Junior High School movement is apparent. Boys and girls of less than twelve years of age, that is, those who may well be spoken of as “children” are to be grouped together and separated from boys and girls of twelve years and older. The latter, including pupils up to the" ninth grade, or the first year of the old High School, form another unit or level on the ladder now commonly receiving the name of the intermediate school or the Junior High School. The philosophy of the new unit may be expressed adequately^,.-in the following phrase: “special training for early adolescents.” Middle adolescents, boys and girls from about fifteen to eighteen, from the next group in the Senior High School of three years, comprising the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grades; leaving the college period for what we may call, later adolescents, i. e. young people of about eighteen years of age and older.
Similarly, the free-time worker must recognize at the outset in planning his program the necessity of divisions along the same lines. The mixing up of children with boys, and of younger boys with older boys is bound to work havoc with his program if not serious harm to the individuals themselves. A recent development within the modern school is a more efficient use of the school
400	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
plant. It is now being generally recognized that the building should be turned over to freetime activities and its utilization not confined merely to the school hours of the day. If the groups with which the free-time worker is engaged, therefore, are built along the same lines as the school groups, even the buildings will fit in better with his general scheme. Junior High Schools will serve the boys and girls of that age, leaving Senior High School facilities for the older group.
In planning the two years course, again the experience of schools, both professional and non-pro-fessional, has been kept in mind. Specialized schools today recognize the difference between what may be spoken of as professional study on the one hand, and the fundamental sciences on the other. Thus mathematics and physics are fundamental to engineering; biology and chemistry to medicine; politics and sociology to law; economics to business. In education, the fundamental sciences are obviously psychology and sociology. Similarly with freetime education, psychology and sociology particularly in their applied aspects furnish the background for the professional study to be carried on under some such title as, “Technique of Boys Work.”
Again, the professional schools have recognized the mistake of their early history in being too didactic to the neglect of application and practice. From this conviction came forth the laboratory clinics and the period of internship in schools of
medicine; moot courts and the case method in schools of law; and experimental and practice schools in teacher training institutions. Accordingly, in the light of this development, for the freetime worker, besides the theory of boys’ work in the lecture room, laboratory is not merely a required subject, but receives the major emphasis. This “field work,” as it is commonly called, is described in detail by the professor in charge in the article which follows.
Another instance of correlation between school and free-time work presents itself in the matter both of the cultural and vocational subjects. Boys’ clubs are recognized as a most efficient agency in helping boys to find themselves and often give them actual tryouts in the trades, crafts, etc. An opportunity of considering the higher professions is presented by talks and lectures from men who have achieved success in these various fields. Nor are the cultural subjects neglected as the Boy Scout program adequately demonstrates. It is almost a general education in itself to prepare for the various tests this program presents, and it is all done under the principle “education through play.”
When the two agencies, the school and freetime guidance, work out a system of harmonious co-operation and collaboration, we may confidently look forward to a decided improvement in what we now speak of as the boy problem.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
401
Boy (guidance
R. A. HOYER
Head of Department of Boy Guidance
R. A. HOYER
In the conduct of any professional school, whether it be law, medicine, dentistry or engineering, laboratory or field work has an important place. The young medic, for instance, learns the structure of the human anatomy by dissecting a cadaver; the embryo dentist actually fills teeth as a part of his professional training; while the engineer-in-the-making has ample opportunity to work at projects of a practical nature. In each instance, the plan is to “learn
by doing.” So also it is, that in training men for work with boys, laboratory or field work with lively and sometimes troublesome boys, is a very necessary and important part of the course.
In organizing field work for the Boy Guidance students at Notre Dame, it has been necessary for the most part to find boys and organizations dealing with boys as near to the University as possible. Fortunately, South Bend is a city of sufficient population and facilities to offer ample opportunities both as to the number of boys and the types of organizations engaged in boys’ work. Nearer still, is St. Edwards School right at our door, while Mishawaka is close enough for consideration.
Since the graduate of the Boy Guidance course is to be a professionally trained expert on the problems of boyhood, it is necessary that he have a thorough knowledge of every type of program and activity touching the leisure time of the boy. This involves several distinct types of work, meaning that each student must devote a generous amount of his time to actual work with boys, in addition to the time spent on the theoretical side of the work.
One of the most natural places for conducting such field work is of course in the
parish schools and it was here that the start at Notre Dame was made. Last spring, even before the course was officially started, a beginning was made in this direction when an inter-parochial baseball league was successfully conducted with the assistance of members of Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. With the opening of the present college year, activities in the schools such as football, basketabll, indoor baseball and games have been inaugurated under the direction of the Boy Guidance scholars. In addition, an indoor basehall league is just swinging into action with eight teams comprising the league membership. The games are played in the gymnasium of the new Knights of Columbus home in South Bend. Plans for the future include an outdoor baseball league, physical efficiency tests and a spring field day for all the schools.
A second type of work that is being utilized is the evening public school recreation center. South Bend, under the direction of the School Board and the Park Board, already conducts a number of such centers and there the students are becoming familiar with this work by participating in the direction of activities. The playgrounds, maintained, by the Park Board, provide ample opportunity for training in another form of municipal recreation. The latter activity is held during the warm weather while the former takes care of the indoor season.
The Boy Scout program is probably the best organized and most widely known program in operation to-day. It is considered to be of such importance that in addition to a thorough course in scouting, each student is required to devote some time as a scoutmaster or an assistant, so that he will be conversant with its content. At the present time, eight of the Boy Guidance students are actively engaged in such work and the others will also be required to secure similar practical experience in scouting.
When it came to Boys’ Club work, however, a difficulty arose due to the fact that there was no work of this character in operation in the neighborhood. In order to pro-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
402 vide facilities, a club is just being opened in the field house located on the J. D. Oliver playground, South Bend. This arrangement has been made possible through the generosity and cooperation of the School board and Park board, which bodies are furnishing the building, with equipment, janitor service, heat, light and supervision. The actual activities are being planned and conducted by the students and director of the Boy Guidance department. The boys using the South Bend Boys’ Club, as it is called, are organized into groups or clubs, using the building for meetings, socials and for table games. In addition, one room has been fitted for shop work where the members have the chance to try their hand at various arts and crafts under direction. Incidentally, this vocational work is considered a very important part of boy work to-day and is being incorporated more and more into the various programs. The club groups also use the public school gymnasiums for athletic purposes and the auditoriums for entertainments, dramatics and glee club work.
Probably less successful work has been accomplished with working boys than any group. Indeed, the majority of existing programs are either not fitted or are uninteresting to boys over sixteen, with the consequence that the juvenile and criminal courts of the country are today crowded with offenders in their teens. This has been due to the misuse of leisure, their free time having been spent in the pool room or saloon or with the corner loafers. In order to start some program suitable for the boy of this age, an experiment is being tried out in three of the Catholic parishes of South Bend, a Polish, a Hungarian and a Belgian, where young men’s clubs have been organized. These groups have a regular meeting room in the parish hall fitted with a billiard table, piano, card table and such other equipment as will afford a pleasant and profitable evening. Socials, parties, dances and entertainments are a part of the program with ample provision for the members to meet their girl friends in properly supervised activities. One such club is preparing for a minstrel show and all three have their athletics, including
boxing. Through these activities, assisted by the Boy Guidance men, the club members are not only learning profitable and useful methods of spending their leisure time, but are being taught ideals of character and citizenship and are being given the correct philosophy of life, work and play. While the clubs are still in their infancy, the result thus far attained are very promising, going as far as to cause a better religious life, as is attested by the revote of one club upon its own initiative to receive Holy Cmmunion in a body monthly.
Thus far the work outlined concerns boys in general with no special emphasis laid upon any particular class. Something should be said however, of the work for the delinquent or so-called “bad” boy. It is true that boy work today is preventive rather than curative, on the assumption that prevention is much better than cure. On the other hand, an increasing number of boys are getting into difficulties with the law and most men in boy work will at one time or another be con fronted with the problem of the boy who has sinned against society. In order therefore, to study the methods of the juvenile court and probation, each student is required to devote some time working as a Volunteer probation officer and making the investigations necessary to intelligently reclaim the delinquent. The matter of probation or Big Brother work as it is called, will be given consideration later in the course.
Camping for boys is a part of almost every program and accordingly, each student will receive a very thorough training in this activity. In June, the class will attend a training course in scouting held at Winona Lake, Indiana, under the auspices of the Boy Scouts of America for scout executives, followed by a week’s intensive training in campcraft at the same place under the auspices of the Boys’ Club Federation. At the conclusion of these courses the scholars will go directly to a recognized camp to serve the balance of the summer as a staff member.
By the beginning of the second year the
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	405
students are expected to decide rather definitely the particular field of work they ultimately intend to follow. In accordance with this decision, the men will be assigned for the entire second semester of the second year to an organization conducting the work of their choice where they will serve a practical apprenticeship under the direction of the executive of that organization. Some of the men will doubtless select scouting; others boys’ work. Some will choose probation or Big Brother work, while others will have
decided to enter the municipal recreation field or that of industrial recreation. Other fields that may be selected are the settlement house, Columbian Squire, Catholic Boys’" Brigade, Wolf Pack, Boy Rangers, community center, etc.
The rating of the students in the Boy Guidance will largely depend upon the character of their field work for here it is that they demonstrate their actual ability to work with boys as well as their attitude toward the work.
THE FIRST GRADUATE CLASS IN BOY GUIDANCE
First row: Romeo Leclerc, Brother Constantine, C.S.C., Cyril Burchell, B. G. DuBois, Prof. Ray Hoyer, Knute Rockne, J. V. Egan, J. A. Connolly, W. J. Morrissey, Brother Barnabas, F.S.C., Eben MacKenzie. Second row: W. J. O’Donnell, J. D. Culhane, H. J. Doyle, T. J. Murphy, K. E. Cook, J. D. Becker, A. L. Cunningham. Third row: J. J. Contway, J. W. McGowan, A. A. Kirk, Al J. July, C. V. Lacey, U. S. Hughes. Fourth row: T. J. Lieb, (assistant to Knute Rockne), Hector MacNeil, E. R. McClure, E. J. McVeigh, E. A. Walsh.
I	404	THE NOTRE
J
I	The Spirit of Notre Dame
|	AL J. JULY
S’ PIRIT! Football! Fraternities! Co-eds!
The air was thick and heavy with talk in the “rec” room at Graduate Hall. I	The terms were fired back and forth through
§	a cloud of smoke that would have killed a
|	chimney-sweep. Finally the question was
|	asked, “What is it that makes a real uni-
|	versity in the eyes of the student?”
J	Notre Dame has always been considered
$	“the” real university to those who have
|	known her influence and hence the writer’s
|	inquisitive sense was aroused and he made
|	a canvass of the occupants of the hall to
|	find if possible an answer to the question.
|	The residents of Graduate Hall are really
|	discriminative men. They come from all
parts of the continent and represent many |	different universities. Let them say what
!	endears Notre Dame to the heart of every
■	man who ever attended it.
All agreed that it was the spirit which was present that made for the home-like feeling at Notre Dame. The “Hello” which you receive from every fellow as you course your way from one end of the campus to the other is a manifestation of this spirit.
The “Hello Day,” when the students wear the “Hello” button and greet one and all as they pass, is typical of this feeling of goodfellowship. But how did this originate? Surely the spirit was there before this day I	was introduced. Notre Dame spirit is some-
I	thing more fundamental.
Ah! it is the football team. Those great .stars, Walsh, Crowley, Layden, Stuhldreher, and the rest, “taking into camp” all the big elevens of the country, surely help to fire enthusiasm and spirit. A team which has been proclaimed by all as the champions of the football world arouses in the heart of every student of the school it represents a . spirit of pride. He will talk long and loudly of the fame of the men who made it possible. But there are others with great football teams and still they have not the spirit which is ever present at Notre Dame.
While nearly all those questioned agreed . .to the football idea, they too realized that
DAME SCHOLASTIC	5
something deeper, something more funda-	f
mental was responsible even for this great	)
football team. Away back when Notre
Dame first went on the field, what was it	3
then that made these great warriors of to-	’
day? For, in the distant past we must look for the foundations of the achievements of the present.
Some referred to the location and the	4
living conditions of the school as an ideal place to exercise this “spirit of Notre Dame.” It is a boarding-school. The students live in close communion with one another. Have not other universities this? Yes, but many	;
times there is class distinction which breaks	cj
down the feeling of good-fellowship. It makes no difference whether a boy comes from New York or Frisco, whether he be rich or poor at Notre Dame. He dons his corduroys and his khaki shirt; plods through the mud on the campus, wears the same kind of clothes whether he be from the North or the South. It is like one big brotherhood, like one large family of boys, just happy in the fact that they are living life. There is no antagonism or rivalry except that of clean sportmanship exercised between the various halls in their athletic contests. But how is it that this condition exists? What is it that brought about this state of affairs ? We are evidently coming closer to the solution of the problem.	J'
■* ’ *1
We find that these conditions existed since	■ j
Notre Dame was founded on the banks of	H
St. Mary’s lake in a small log hut. The	:|
spirit is traditional. Each new class of fresh-	i |
men coming to the University is acquainted	s
with all the time honored customs of Notre Dame. They see the great football team performing in the early fall and they feel	:
that they too could “rip up things” for Notre Dame. The spirit is contagious and	i
any real American cannot help but be in-	j
fected by it.
The Fathers of the Holy Cross are a	■
democratic body of men. No wonder it is	I
that traditions such as exist at Notre Dame	}
should spring up under the guidance of such men as these. At the first football rally	y
the freshman is introduced to Father O’Don-	??
* nell who throws the students into con-	!

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
405

vulsions of cheers by his mere appearance. When he begins to speak, those who have not already the spirit, soon catch it. This is but a single instance of the men who built Notre Dame, who have fired that spirit which stands out so prominently. These men were college boys themselves, enthused with all the spirit of youth, and they have remained young through the passing years. It is they who spread and instill into the hearts of those whom they have in their charge, the wonderful principles of goodfellowship. Why is it that Notre Dame has so many daily communicants? You proba
bly have never read one of Father O’Hara’s religion bulletins. If you have, you cannot but feel that such a man makes you love him and everything connected with him. And believing in him, one implicitely does as he suggests.
And so imbued with that spirit one passes it on and on until everyone on the campus is saturated with it. It is the “Hello Tom,” “Hello Al,” “Hello Mac” of the Fathers of Holy Cross which makes you love and root for Notre Dame and makes you proud when it is said of you, “He’s a Notre Dame man.”
525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525
The Cradle of Notre Dame
2S2525252S25252525252525HS2S2525252525Z52S2525252525252525252525252525252525252S252525252525252525h

406	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
a
International Boys Work Conference
EDWARD A. WALSH
The real significance and the tremendous import of the vocation of Boy Guidance never fully impressed the class at Notre Dame until we attended the convention held in Chicago by the International Rotary Society. There, in the blaze of high idealism, in the crucible of altruism of men of strong purpose, any dross which might have accompanied our hopes and aspirations was burned away, leaving only the pure gold from which we hope to-work a chalice—the shining chalice of selfsacrifice.
It was, indeed, a splendid service that the Rotarians did in inviting us to the conference, for the event was replete with interest from its opening moments until the dying autumn sun proclaimed its close. Not only was the subject matter of each address vital and interesting, but the spirit of those in attendance was contagious, and their enthusiasm soon made us feel a part of the great army of what Mr. Breckenridge, in the final address, so aptly termed, “the supreme artists of creation.” Truly it may be said that the trip' to Chicago recreated our energies and set into adamantine form our resolves to render a true aid to humanity.
After an inspiring invocation by Monsignor Kiley on the opening day of the conference, our attention was engaged by Everett W. Hill, of Oklahoma City, President of the Rotary, who told of the uplift program upon which they have embarked, and emphasized the necessity for co-operation in order to further the ideal of international citizenship. If we could only blend our individual notes of effort with those of the others, the result would be a great diapason of harmony.
Upon the conclusion of this address, Mayor Dever of Chicago welcomed the delegates, stressing the necessity of inculcating in the youth of the country “a decent, honest, honorable American respect for law and order.” Money used for repressing crime might well be devoted to provide recreation for young people, explained the Mayor, and in this way counteract juvenile delinquency and nip crime in the bud.
Following this, Chairman Hart I. Seeley gave the keynote address. He said that every boy is a volume to be studied, and every boy worker must have lived the life of the boy in order* to understand it. Exchange of views is the best medium for finding the. solution of the boy problem. “All adults are set like plaster;” therefore, we must work with the boy to get results. Boy workers should have the vision of a better world, a world safe for earth’s greatest acquisition, Nature’s greatest gift, Gods greatest wor—mankind. Bring ideals into the Boy’s life. Let the light of idealism burn always in his heart.
The morning conference was followed by a luncheon at the Cooper-Carleton Hotel, Judge Benjamin E. Jones, of Newark, presiding. Many speakers made brief addresses. Mr. Hogan Morrissey, of Notre Dame, was greeted with great applause when he spoke briefly but pointedly for the college delegation.
Under the general title of “The Boy and the Community,” Dr. William A. McKeever, of Lawrence, Kansas, a noted writer, opened the afternoon session. He pointed out the influence of a bad community in making bad boys, and urged cooperation to overcome the evil. Emotional, rather than intellectual treatment, is needed. Every boy has ten times more good in him than is demanded for good citizenship. Home, school, church and community should work together for the good of boyhood.	*
The next speaker was Lorne W. Barclay, of Valparaiso, Indiana, who treated the subject of “Community Health,” terming it a fundamental responsibility fox* any community, and a prime requisite for any program in citizenship building. Community needs include co-operation, proper health officers, pure milk, safe drinking water, birth registrations, health instruction, medical examinations, organized play, proper delinquent measures, publications on contagious diseases, and instruction for parents in the needs of their children. .
Following Mr. Barclay, Mr. Harold 0. Berg, of Cleveland, spoke on “Community Recreation,”, stating that we are not teaching boys how to live, but how to get a living. Absence of proper recrea-’ tional facilities lead the boy to commercial recreation and subsequent crime. Moral training may be taught in the school, but the playground is the laboratory; recreation makes courage, obedience, ambition, self-control, loyalty, and develops social values.
Mr. Herbert D. Williams, of Toledo, who spoke next on the “Psychology of It,” was very interesting. He emphasized family disintegrations as a potent cause of delinquency, as both parents are needed for the full development of the children. Confidences are the best safeguards against mental conflicts, and the parents are the child’s natural confidants. The boy should have early sex knowledge, his relations with his parents should be adjusted, and he should be given knowledge of his own social status.
The last address of the day was by Mr. Robert Klees, of Chicago, on “The Business Man’s Relation.” Boys’ Work is vital to business from a purely commercial view. The human equation in business is very important. The cry for men which modern business is raising goes back to the periods of formation and volition. The boy is the raw material of commerce and industry. Build boy plants; put honesty, character and self-responsibility into them. Let red-blooded men plan character
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	407
programs which will include business methods and ethics. Let the boys throw down this challenge to the business men: “Help make better the boys of today.”
On the second day of the convention, following the prayer by Rabbi Mann, of Chicago, the subject “The Boy Problem,” was begun by S. J. Duncan Clark, of Chicago, under the title “The Boy and the Home and Church.” Mr. Clark called the home the sanctum of youth, and its failure to pei-form its part marked the downfall of boyhood and was the chief cause of juvenile delinquency. Study the life of the boy and his community, and provide a religious program suitable to him.
Speaking on “The Boy and Delinquency,” Judge Victor Arnold, of Chicago, said that all crime draws from the juvenile courts, and that much of it is caused by economic pressure. Constructive work on juveniles decreases crime.
Mr. William Bogan, of the Chicago School Commission, then made an appeal for higher education, and Mr. William Edwin Hall, of New York, talking on “The Boy and Industry,” stated that the boy should be taught to salvage his native skill and inclinations. Every school should have an employment department, and turnover- in juvenile labor should be prevented as it leads to delinquency. Boys’ Clubs should have vocational classes, and every plant should have a vocational counsellor.
In concluding the morning session, Mr. John
Bradford, of New York, emphasized the need of vision. Laymen will solve the boy problem, but they need to consider social and environmental conditions. The failure of boys means the failure of the nation. Let us mobilize all our forces to attain facts and interpret them. Study the spare time of the boy, for there the virtues of manhood are founded.
The general subject for the second afternoon was “Organizations Of and For Boys,” Mr. James E. West, Chief Executive of the Boy Scouts, starting the discussion with a detailed representation of the importance of that great program. Rowland C. Sheldon, of New York. Executive Secretary of the Big Brother Federation, spoke of his field of work, and of the necessity of getting men of the community to enter it with enthusiasm. Alexander Campbell, Secretary of the Boys Club Federation, of New York, told of their- plans for the upbuilding of the nation’s youth, explained the nature of the work done in the clubs, as well as the features which distinguish it from other organizations. Brother Barnabas gripped the audience with an inspiring talk on the plans of the Knights of Columbus, and of the crying need of getting all, Catholic and Protestant, to co-operate in the “godgiven mission” of restoring American youth to its proper place.
Among the short reports of other organizations were those by A. M. Millard, of Chicago, for the
THE BOY GUIDANCE GROUP AT THE ROTARY INTERNATIONAL BOY WORK CONFERENCE, Chicago December 1-4 1924.
408	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
American Sentinels; Francis Williams, of Philadelphia, for the Church Brotherhoods; Philip Seman, of Chicago, for the Y. M. C. A., and Harold M. Harter, of Toledo, who spoke on the efforts of Service Clubs.
The last day of the convention opened with a prayer by Bishop Anderson, of Chicago, followed by Dr. George Fisher, of New York, who treated the subject of “Boys Work as a Profession,” emphasizing the need of unselfishness, idealism and the willingness to work.	.
Several addresses were given under the subject of Boys Work, Dean Eugene Foster, of the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College, speaking of the four year course given there, and Professor Ray Hoyer, of Notre Dame, on the two year graduate course established by the Knights of Columbus. Charles B. Hahn, of Kansas City, detailed the Kansas City Community Boys’ Work Course, and urged that some college such as Notre Dame establish a correspondence course for earnest boy workers throughout the country. Mr. Walter W. Head, of Omaha, Nebraska, spoke on Boys Week, giving its history and the importance of its results, ard' called upon many members on the floor for their testimony as to its efficacy.
In the afternoon Leon C. Faulkner, of New York, stressed the need of co-operation in his address on “What Boys Work Organizations Have In Common,’ and Taylor Statten in his talk on “A Working Basis of Co-operation for all Boys Work Organizations” mentioned the growing vision of an international clearing house for all boy problems, and the necessity of having one centralized organization to unify all the work of the various organi-aztions, and yet not infringe on any one’s particular field. Mr. William Lewis Butcher followed this talk with an interesting resume of the entire conference. The reports of the committees were heard, and the convention adjourned.
Apart from the general enthusiasm stirred up by the conference, our trip was made more engrossing by reason of the visits we made to actual fields of social work. On Monday night we went to the Chicago Commons, and were conducted though the plant by a guide who explained the various phases of the activities. We also visited the Y. M. C. A. College, the Hyde Park Y. M. C. A., the Union League Club and the American Boys’ Commonwealth. It is no exaggeration to say that the work of the boys at the latter place took the Notre Dame delegation off its feet, for we hardly expected to find young boys conducting meetings and speaking so efficiently and brilliantly.
The final ensemble of the convention was held on the roof garden of the Sisson on Wednesday night, where a banquet was served. Charles W.
Folds of Chicago was toastmaster, and prior to the main address, he called on many delegates from outside the United States. William J. McGowan, representing the Canadians in the Notre Dame group, spoke eloquent words of thanks to the Rotarians for inviting us to the conference.
The speaker of the evening was Colonel Henry Breckenridge, of New York, and his address was a masterpiece of oratory. To us, “the supreme artists of creation,” he entrusted the future well being of the nation. It is the boy workers who have the destiny of the country in their hands when they mould the character of the youth of the land. Strongly and vividly the speaker depicted the horrors of the recent war, its vain struggle and its hideous loss of life. How much better would it have been were those young lives, lost on almost forgotten fields of strife, preserved to carry on in the great battle of human existence! They throw to us a challenge, the duty they tried to accomplish, and which we must carry on. Against the forces of disintegration and darkness, against such societies as the Ku Klux Klan, we must make unending war by building up clean, manly boyhood and making the annals of our history the clean, bright pages they have always been. “Who can know the vast echoes of the things we do today?”
Throughout the convention, many of the speakers, including Mr. Breckenbridge, complimented the Notre Dame Students, our football team, and our famous “Four Horsemen.” But we feel that we are bringing back to Notre • Dame a new “Four Horsemen.” Not the grim, gaunt figures of Blasco Ibanez, riding relentlessly at Fate’s command over struggling living forms; not the staunch, sturdy figures that sweep ends, slash tackles and smash guards on their victorious march, but the four qualities which Judge Ben Jones said are the true requisites of the real boy worker, unselfishness, intellect, inspiration and imagination. We must have unselfishness to submerge all, even our own individualism in the human maelstrom of life. We must have intellect to recognize the scientific principles upon which our profession is based. We must have inspiration to feel welling within us the surge to do good for others, and we must have imagination to see far down the dim and' distant vistas of the years our ideal, whose light brightens our hearts and leads us on to the purple heights.
This quartet does not ride forth regally in the glamour of the press nor bask in the plaudits of a fickle public, but it will beat an endless tattoo in our hearts, a tattoo whose first roll re-echoed from the roofs of the convention and whose age-old strain shall ever be the call of service to humanity.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	409
Delinquency and the Boy
'	JAMES V. EGAN
DELINQUENCY in the youth of America is the problem of the age, and if the United States is to expect a reasonable rating on the international chart of morality then society must approach this problem with intelligence.
To most people, it is a situation which will remedy itself, some specialists likening it to the cycle of progress and depression. It must come and go, so let it be. In the meantime we all stand by apathetically, gaze with awe and shudder at the vast increase of crime throughout the United States. What can we do, we ask ourselves?—what is to be done?—and that is about as far as it goes.
Most of our sciences are being perfected today and what was consiedred a necessity yesterday is antiquated today, owing to the improvements made by the advances of science. We have progressed from the ox-cart to the automobile, from the street vender to the mammoth department store, from handmade tools to machines of almost human intelligence, from messenger boy to telephone, telegraph and radio, perfecting everything but the most fundamental of all, the human factor.
While we cannot pin ourselves down to any set rules in psychology because of human nature being so changeable, we can, however, treat this problem of delinquency favorably, and, in short order reduce the expenditures of millions of dollars in jails and penal institutions by devoting a little forethought to this existing evil.
At the outset, how can this be done? A simple problem indeed. Study the causes and apply the remedies, nipping in the bud the seed of crime. If a delinquent boy is allowed progress in his specialty then we can expect to have trouble with him later on in life, for, crime today is but the harvest we reap from mature delinquents. If we expect to decrease adult crime we must start with the child.
In spite of the work of prevention which different agencies have devised, namely, the establishment of clubs, recreational centers, the court and the probationary systems, and various other means, delinquency still asserts itself in startling figures.
That crime and delinquency are increasing cannot be denied. Recent investigation carried on in Chicago give the reader an idea of the proportion of delinquency in that city for the last six years.
1919_________3402	1922_______1905
1920_________2550	1923_______1813
1921_________2415	1924_______2629
The above figures represent only the court-reaching cases, there being from 15,000 to 25,000 cases of delinquency each year, seventy-five percent of which were disposed of outside of court. It is also interesting to note that five out of every seven cases are those relating to boys.
Following the Avar, in 1919 the scale was at its
peak because of the freedom of money with the youth. Money was easily made in leisure time. They resorted to the pleasures and follies typical to a. child of this age.
The scale shows a steady decline from 1919 to 1923, and then, a remarkable increase. This abrupt change can be attributed to the unemployment situation. Fifty percent of the boys between the ages of fourteen and eighteen are out of school, and when a boy is out of school and out of work he will not remain normal.
Hence, we have two extreme cases which contribute to the increase in deliquency and crime, namely, prosperous times and high wages, and quiet times and low wages. Now if we can table such facts, chart them, approach all other possible causes, and create in society a conscientious feeling towards this whole problem, immediately we begin to advance in this human science as we have in other sciences. In periods of prosperity create the spirit of thrift in the youth—in periods of depression, assist in making small jobs to carry him through those hard times. Here we have two remedies which can apply to the previous examples.
Society’s contribution can start right in the home where ninety-five percent of the deliquency is caused. The boy cannot find interest in the home today. Hence, it is only natural for him to go elsewhere where he will find it.
As a secondary measure, if the boy then could not find contentment and still wished to go in quest of diversion,—“sow his wild oats” as the old adage goes, the boy leader in his locality, being conversant Avith the problems dealing Avith the boy, could apply his methods in carrying the boy through this period Avhich starts him on his downAvard path.
In treating delinquency Ave must consider both the child and has environment. Has he any physical defects Avhich directly or indirectly affect his mental condition? What about his mental condition and his personality? Where do his delinquent ideas originate? At Avhat intervals do they occur and under Avhat conditions? What outside influences are acting upon him that Avould be contributing factors in aiding delinquency? Applying such questions as these Avhen treating the delinquent is a short cut route to the real cause of crime.
A huge stride in this direction has been started by the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus Avho have established on a graduate basis at the University of Notre Dame, a course in Boy Guidance.
Courses of this nature undoubtedly will be established in other prominent universities in this country and Avithin this decade. With the increase of professional men in this line of work, rapid and beneficial results will be society’s reward, solely through its co-operation and the noble work of these experts.
The future looms brightly.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
410
A Word To Prospective Students of Boy Guidance
A. A. KIRK
THE students of Boy Guidance who went to Chicago last December to attend the Boys’ Work Conference, sponsored by Internotional Rotary, found that each of the veterans in the field who attended the sessions, felt it his duty to impress on the Notre Dame men the great advantage of pursuing a Boy Guidance course before entering the work. It was to be expected that these men should be greatly interested in the project since if the desired results are obtained, some relief will be in sight for those who for years have been struggling to establish free time guidance as a profession.
There is another group which is following closely the progress of Notre Dame’s latest venture in education; this includes the heads and instructors of the various colleges and universities in the Uinted States and Canada. For, while overnight changes have been taking place in secondary education, the professions seemed to have been secure from any newcomer in the ranks. The believers in this doctrine received a distinct shock last September with the entrance of Boy Guidance into the field of professions.
However, the combined interest of the two groups mentioned can not equal that of thousands of college men in America who have been seriously considering the pursuance of such a course. Why shouldn’t their interest be aroused after stories began to circulate concerning the type of men engaged in the studies? Veterans of the A. E. F. who took part in most of the major offensives, a Canadian ex-soldier who spent two winters in Siberia, a two-year basketball captain of a large Eastern college, a Notre Dame football player, and others, coming with coveted distinctions from all parts of the continent, have undertaken training for this new profession.
There are many, who, like those now taking the course, have had an ardent desire for years to enter such work, but the opportunities were wanting. This state of affairs exists no longer; any man who has been granted a college degree may enter the University and pursue the course. In addition, the National Council of the Knights of Columbus grants yearly thirty scholarships to applicants from the various archdioceses of America.
Since the inauguration of the course many undergraduates have inquired what preparatory subjects might be selected to the best advantage. When it was decided by those who outlined the course that only graduates were eligible, it seemed
that the foundation of a fairly liberal course was assured. This is true, but a ground work of educational, sociological and psychological subjects will be of great value; special attention can be given to branches of physical training, particularly in athletics, indoor, outdoor and aquatic; commercial studies will be an invaluable aid for men who expect to assume executive positions in Boy Work and public speaking cannot be overemphasized for those who will be required to make so many public appearances as those in free time work. Regardless of how lofty one’s ambitions might be, he will have to deal with men who, for the most part, measure results in dollars and cents; to sell the proposition, then, to the new community, especially, a training in the last two subjects mentioned will be a very great asset.
During the two years spent in training, the greatest stress is laid on actual work with boys; this is evidenced by having the entire last semester devoted to work in the field. In every town and city there are Boys’ Clubs, Scout Councils, Big Brotherhoods and scores of other such organizations shouting from the house-tops for volunteer workers. These offer a splendid training for any one who might later pursue the course in Boy Guidance. This kind of preparation can not be too varied nor overdone.
Upon completion of the studies at the University, the graduate enters the work with a professional standing and recognition equal to those in medicine, law or the ministry. Like these professions, free time guidance of youth has for its objective the making of the world a better place to live in; but in. so doing the worker must also live and this profession offers remuneration equal to any of those well established and of long standing. In considering the joy to be had from the work, who gets more happiness than those engaged in making others happy? As to the service to be rendered to others, it is a part in a great citizen building process that leads to a goal for which men have bled and died on battlefields and women have spent days and nights of sorrowing. In the midst of the trials of the work, it must be always kept in mind that the boys of to-day will be guiding the ship of state to-morrow and the matter of right training is important. In such work we can especially realize the truth of Stevenson’s words: “A happy man or woman is a better thing to find than a five-pound note.” In it we get to konw—
“That in all ages
Every human heart is human, That even in the savage bosom
There are longings, yearnings, strivings For the good they comprehend not.”



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	411
“The London Adventure,’’ by Arthur Machen; Alfred A. Knopf Co., New York.
“The London Adventure,” as the author himself describes it, is a book that ends without a beginning. Mr. Machen, in the very first chapter, set before himself the task of writing a book about London that would be truly great; he has succeeded in writing a book about London. However, the book which he wrote was not the one which he had set out to write. “The London Adventure” was intended to be a story which would bring out things new and amazing in the most commonplace features of London. The author went with a duster into the past and knocked the spiderwebs from the corners of dim recollections of his newspaper days and put them down on paper in search of material for his book. And when he had written enough to fill a volume, he found that he had nothing but recollections and no beginning of “The London Adventure.” So he gave that name to the book which he had written, and gave the book, name and all, to the publisher. Yet he has done well in his main purpose; he has gone beneath the surface of the commonplace and found things of interest there.	.
Mr. Machen gives the key to his book in a single sentence. “Let us remember that the most amazing things are latent in the commonest, most everyday ordinary circumstances.” And he proceeds to find amazing things in strangers, fenceposts, corner drug stores, deserted villages, everywhere. He then opens an old notebook which he had kept in the days when he was a younger man and was engaged in writing “The Hill of Dreams,” undoubtedly his masterpiece. From the pages therein he takes ideas for stories that had been born in his mind but had never grown to know maturity and makes of them stepping stones to much philosophy. He strolls at random through the streets of London, not the streets as they are but as he knew them a quarter of a century ago, and sees in them many things that are not visible to the eye.
Walter De La Mare has said of Mr. Machen that “whatever he writes as a philosopher, as a critic, as an artist, about books, about life in general, even including his humor and irony, is touched with that power of the imagination indispensable in a poetic mind. ” Mr. Machen does
have imagination. There are critics who maintain that the author has little to say; but they cannot deny that he says that little well. He has the power of dressing the abstract up in the common, everyday clothes of the concrete in a way that is most convincing. However, we do wish that he would refrain from Latin quotations.
—CORBIN PATRICK.
The Bookshop, in South Bend, has been staging a stunning sale. Result, a few of the literariest of the he-men on the campus are selling their* tuxedos, and comforting themselves on nights of social gaiety with revels in the pages of $3.50: tomes secured at sixty cents.
The latest literateur to enter the field of Biblical drama is the columnist Don Marquis. He has just published “The Dark Hours,” a tragedy of the Life and Passion of Our Lord. He has managed his plot reverently enough to keep the figure of Christ out of the physical action of the piece.
5jt ^5
The Atlantic Monthly has opened a prize contest for students’ essays, offering $50 and $25 to college students and the same to high school students, for the best essays submitted before April 11, 1925. The essays are to be of the personal or familiar type published in “The Contributors’ Club” in the Monthly.
5$:
A new war is going on in Euorpe.—and already it has got into the American press—a literary war, over the authenticity of certain statements published by Professor- Ferdinand Ossendowski of the University of Warsaw in the books “Man and Mystery in Asia” and “Beasts, Men and Gods.” The books are attacks on Bolshevik regime in Russia, and as a result the Bolshviks are after the scalp of the Polish writer. So far, Ossendowski appears to be on top in the scrap so far as proofs and facts are concerned—but the Bolos’ object nevertheless is partly achieved; they have managed to discredit their Catholic opponent in the eyes of many readers. Such is propaganda! '
412	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Awarded Bonniwell National Champion Trophy
Coach Knute K. Rockne and Adam Walsh, captain of the Notre Dame football team of 1924, representing the University of Notre Dame, received the Eugene C. Bonniwell National Championship football trophy at a mammoth gathering of athletic champions, staged in Philadelphia, January 24, by the Veteran Athletes association of Philadelphia.
Once more stepping into the limelight which has played relentlessly upon the coach, captain and members of the Notre Dame eleven of 1924, the leaders of the Fighting Irish contingent that made football history during the last fall, received the laurels in the last encore, symbolic of the peerless heights to which Notre Dame ascended in the football world this year.
Adam Walsh received the trophy cup from Judge Bonniwell and Coach Rockne made the speech of acceptance. Striking into the assemblage of noted athletes gathered from all over the country, Rockne delineated the elements he considered as paramount in the success of Notre Dame during the gridiron campaign last fall. The Irish mentor pointed out that it was the philosophy of life with which each member of the squad is imbued, that contributed generously to touchdown after touchown.
“At Notre Dame,” said the famous coach, “every man on the team is anxious to help his fellow player. Each man on the squad sees only the good points in his teammates and fails to notice the minor defects. In this way harmony is sure to exist in the ranks and success is certain.
“In picking men for the team I do not judge by the reputation of the individual.
I do not care who a man’s father may be, what his friends think of him as a football player or what he thinks of himself. I pick a man solely on his merits and _ allow no alumni or faculty interference with my choice.”	.
Speaking of the game at Pasadena, against Stanford, Rockne declared he wished to correct a false impression which had arisen from press accounts that the game had been rough. “It was not,” he asserted. “The western team played clean football and Nevers was a real star. Western football is not much different from eastern. We beat Stanford because we got the breaks in our favor.
“When I say we got the breaks,” said Rockne, “I mean that we got the breaks because we earned them. As an illustration, we were leading the westerners, 7 to 3, when Stanford’s quarterback called for a forward pass to the side. Layden intercepted the pass and dashed for a. touchdown. We were then leading, 13 to 3. Everyone said that was a break. Few knew that for three weeks before the game we had drilled to break up just that pass. The biggest break was that Stanford used the play.
“In the latter half of the game, with our team nearly tired out, Stanford again tried to pass to the side, and once more Layden rushed for a touchdown. Maybe it was another break.
“A number of critics have stated that the Stanford team deliberately laid out some of our men. I want to state that any injuries suffered by the Notre Dame players were due entirely to the fortunes of the game and in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	413
my experience as a coach. I have never seen a cleaner played nor harder fought football game.
“Notre Dame showed its real form when it stopped Stanford on the one-foot line ■with Nevers carrying the ball for the westerners. To my mind the thrill of that defense was the greatest moment in the entire contest.”
NOTRE DAME LOSES TWICE TO CREIGHTON
Unable to penetrate the Creighton university defense, the Notre Dame basketball team lost the first of a two game series with the hilltoppers, 34 to 21, at Omaha, Neb., Friday, Jan. 23.
McNally topped the column for the Notre Dame scores dropping five baskets in the second half. Capt. Kizer and Crowe also contributed points, and during the first half, the Irish eagers treated the Nebraskans to some of the best passing witnessed at Omaha in several seasons.
Johnny Nyikos, Notre Dame court star, was taken ill before the game and although he started in the opening frame, he was unable to continue.
Trautman was the high point man for the Creighton five, finding the net eight times for counters. Mahoney and Ryan of Creighton also counted in the Hilltoppers attack.
Summary:
NOTRE DAME	CREIGHTON
Crowe_______________  F	 Trautman
McNally___________F. C Ryan
Nyikos _______________C	  Mahoney
Kizer ________________G____________Correnman
Mahoney G___________________________Spiecher
Dienhart _____________F________________Brown
Conroy____________C. G
Dahm an______________G
Field goals—Troutman 8, Ryan 4, Mahoney 3, Dahman 1. Free throws— Troutman 1, Mahoney 1, Carrenman 2, Mahoney 2? Nyikos 1.
---N D S--
Fighting a desperate uphill battle in a futile attempt to take the second and last game of the series with Creighton, Notre Dame was defeated 27 to 17, at Omaha, Saturday, Jan. 24.
The Keoganites displayed their best game in the first half, holding the Hilltoppers to a 7-7 tie at the half time. In the opening' frame, Notre Dame jumped into the lead with counters by McNally and Crowe. In the waning moments of play in this half, Creighton’s scoring machine came into place and tied the count with baskets by Mahoney, Ryan and Trautman.
Vine McNallly repeated his work of the previous night in the second half, abetting Notre Dame’s total with some sensational basket shooting. Notre Dame tightened its guard in the last lap and Mahoney and Trautman, Creighton aces were held scoreless from the field. Brown of Creighton performed well in this period ringing up the counters that gave Creighton the victory.
Summary:
NOTRE DAME
CREIGHTON
Crowe F	Trautman ___________F
Dienhart____________F	Brown_______________F
McNally F-C	Ryan________________F
Nyikos C	Mahoney____________C
Mahoney_____________F	Correman____________G
Dahman G	Speisher------------G
Kizer G
Conroy_____________G
Field goals—Notre Dame: Crowe, McNally 4, Dahman. Creighton—Brown 4, Ryan 2, Correman 3, Speicher 2. Foul goals—Notre Dame: Crowe, McNally 2, Nyikos 2, Conroy. Creighton, Trautman, Ryan 2, Mahoney 1, Speicher. Officials— Mallard, Illinois Wesleyan.
NOTRE DAME-CULVER HOCKEY
After battling for two overtime periods in a futile attempt to break the tie, Nptre Dame and Culver academy hung up their sticks at the end of the annual hockey duel with the score deadlocked, 2 to 2, Saturday afternoon, Jan. 24, at Culver.
The first period of play went by without a score but in the second Notre Dame began to bring her team work into action and Hickock set the puck past Pringle for a count.	'
A few minutes later Stedell duplicated the performance for the visitors but this was the last time they could succeed in finding the path through Culver’s guard. In this period Culver made her first score when a
414
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fierce struggle at Notre Dame’s goal gave Setterquist his first opportunity and he shot the puck into the net for a count.
In the next period he repeated the performance and ended the scoring.
Lineup and summary:
•CULWR
NOTRE DAME
Pringle---------------------------------Murphy
Goal
G. Carlson______________________________Timmins
Right Defense Hoefle__________________________________ Mouch
Left Defense "Tonkin____________________________,____Martin
Center
Nelson _________________________________ Hickock
Left Wing Setterquist F. McSorley
Right Wing Substitutes—Culver, Potts, Brinkerhoff, Gilmour,
"Taylor, Crafts. Notre Dame—Irmiger, Stedell, J. McSorley, Herndon.
M’SORLEY ELECTED TO CAPTAIN HOCKEY TEAM
Franklin McSorley of Pittsburg, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was reelected captain of the Notre Dame hockey team at a recent meeting of the squad.
McSorley captained the Irish stickmen last year through a hit and miss season while the Notre Dame sextet was encountering some of the best hockey clubs in the country, including the Pittsburg A. C. and the University of Michigan. The Irish leader is one of the most dependable puck chasers in school and began his college hockey career in 1922, playing two years on the brilliant sextet of which Paul Castner, was a member.
A home and home series has been arranged with Michigan Aggies, the first match of which will be played at Notre Dame, Feb. 7. The return match will be played at Lansing, Feb. 28. Two matches with the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis, Feb. 9-10, are tentative pending arrangements for another game to be included in the northern trip. Negotiations for a game with Michigan were not completed, the Wolverines reporting the Ann Arbor schedule filled.
Culver Military academy will play a return game with Notre Dame on St. Mary’s lake next Saturday afternoon.
ROCKNE’S “TEA GAME.”
Coach Rockne’s well known game of tea football as the coach predicts it will be
played in another decade if feminism con
COACH ROCKNE
tinues to ravage the manliness of men, has again found its way into print.
Rockne made an address to the Ad-craft Club at Detroit last week, and during the course of his talk on present day tendencies in modern youth, related his famous game of football as certain people would
<

have it chronicled if they could have their
way.
“The society reporter after recounting in detail the apparel of the various boxholders, would narrate that J. Bickerdyke Webb, scion of the famous family of North Platte, kicked off to T. Fitzpatrick Murphy, fullback of Notre Dame. The officials wore the customary knickerbockers with crepe de chine waists, and after an eventful tagging for three periods, the scion person recovered the ball and started gleefully on the journey to Notre Dame’s goal,” was the manner in which Rockne thought some people would have the newspapers carry stories of the
games.
The reporter would then finish the run in this manner, he continued: “Reliable Murphy, seeing the fleeting opponent tearing away to a winning touchdown, yelled: ‘Webb, old thing, mercy, you’ve a run in your stocking,’ with the result that Mr. Webb, being shamefully humiliated, dropped the ball, rushed to the clubhouse and the game was saved for Notre Dame.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
415
Write Your Name with
SANFORD’S INK
It Will Last Forever
SANFORD'S
M Fountain Pen Ink
“The Ink that Made the
Fountain Pen Possible"
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The
SPORT SACK (Four Tiece) Wmi knickers a sport suit—with trousers a sack suit. In woolens of rare quality and rich pattern, the popular all ’round suit.
«’3950W’,4250
natLUXENBERGS’BROS. 841 Broadway, New York
) WRITE FOR 1 1 EXHIBITION DATES i
jr~Ll-L II-LH—L IT~L I1T~LST~L_ II-L IS ~1_ 11 I
Our style memo, book sent free on request
Patronize “Scholastic” Advertisers
COAST FANS ARE STILL DISCUSSING SENSATIONAL NEW YEAR DAY TILT
(by warren w. brown.)
(Universal Service Special Correspondent.)
Los Angeles, Jan, 3.— This city 'orgot all about climate, real estate, motion pictures and national advertising Friday long enough to discuss over and over again the spectacular football game that was waged Thursday at Pasadena, resulting in the triumph for Notre Dame over the Pacific coast champions, Stanford university.
Knute Rockne, the victor, and Glenn Warner, the vanquished, met over the banquet table and felicitated each other at great length and after all the adjectives were spread about, this notable fact remained:
Notre Dame wants Stanford to play a game in the middle west, preferably in Chicago, and Notre Dame on such an occasion as it has a team comparable with the one that represented it at Pasadena on New Years day, wants to come back to the Pacific coast once more and clash with the Cardinals in their native state.
While Rockne was not at all adverse to another trip to the salubrious climate of southern California, Lou Young, the Pennsylvania coach whose team was completely outplayed by California on the same day declared that underno condition would Pennsylvania ever participate again in a postseason football game, particularly when it carried them clear across the country. Young, who was present at the dinner given to his fellow coaches, Rockne and Warner, made no attempt to conceal his chagrin at having been trounced by the Golden Bears. He had the usual plaint to register about the harmful effects of the climatic conditions upon the players from beyond the Rockies.
More interesting than Young’s explanation of the “softening” of the Penn players, particularly in the second half, was the story told
UNBMUIJHFn
0dd$In(Wyelibuis
*> EUROPE
Ask for our Sailing Scktdnlts
Large choice of itineraries touts by leading Liners every few days during season
Rate fam ^255
Ruriada all aptnse tow visiting fhnt. Vmnilla Smsstls Antwerp. lonion,ttz
Our Reputation is Your Guamutee!
THO&COOK&SON
CHICAGO
, 203 So. Dearborn St., cor Adams ,
WRIGLEYS
After Every Meal
IFs the longest-lasting confection you can buy —and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser
The folks at home wold like to read The Scholastic. Send it to them each week.
416
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
by Capt. Adam Walsh of the Notre Dame team.
Captain Walsh said that he could not explain the effect “of softening” save that he and his fellow players knew what to do, wanted to do it, and simply could not make arms and legs function as they should.
In this expression Walsh was joined by Coach Rockne, who told how Elmer Layden, the hero of the winning team, was so completely exhausted between halves that it required all the skill of the trainers to enable him to go on the field at all in the second half.
“But Elmer said that when he

ft
fol
The Class Endowment
eAnd How It Can Be Done Through Life Insurance
HTHE JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 1. worked out this problem lot the 1923 graduating class of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and is ready to do it for others.
Many graduating classes, wishing to benefit their Alma Mater have turned to the insurance idea since it allows the participation of a large number of students
This plan provides for the payment of a certain specified sum to the University at die end of 20 or 25 years, the members of the graduating class paying a nominal sum each year to create an endowment. In case of the death of a graduate before the endowment matures his full share is paid into the fund.
Every student is given a chance to put his John Hancock on the dotted line and become a continuing contributor to tire future welfare of his Alma Mater. It has been successfully carried through in a number of cases, and it can be done with your institution.
WO
I®


FOR INFORMATION ADDRESS
&
The John Hancock organitation will be glad to render any service it can to college dosses and individuals; also to interest ambitious college men m life insurance work.
Life Insurance Company
or oostom. Mamacmusctto
Oner SixtyYeauin Business. Now Insuring Over Two Billion Dollars in Policies on 3,500,000 Lives
saw those passes sailing towards him, it was like a shot in the arm,” Rockne said, “and he pepped up long enough to run for a touchdown.”
“The only one of our players who was not affected seemed to be Crowley.” It was “Sleepy” Jimmy, generally rated as the partner of Harold Grange as All-American whose splendid interference for Layden made his runs to touchdowns possible. On the first drive Crowley put not one prospective tackler but three out of the play, one after the other ,and when Layden crossed the last line, Crowley was right beside him ready to
$
i7£?



bump a goal post, or a row or two of bleacher seats out of the way, if it were necessary.
Stuhldreher was only one of many casualties the “fighting Irish” suffered. Joe Bach, tackle, was carried from the game with two of his ribs broken. Bill Cer-ney, substitute fullback also suffered a fractured rib or two, and practically every man on the squad shows bumps and bruises galore. Captain Walsh’s shins are a mass of bruises and a fancy welt appears on the side of his head, near his left eye.
The reaction of the Pacific coast fandom toward the game seems to be that Stanford’s chances of victory were minimized by failure to take advantage of opportunities, while Notre Dame never missed a chance, no matter how small, to improve their standing in the football community.
Stanford’s line consistently out-charged the Irish, and Ernie Nevers, the Cardinal fullback, who is rated by Rockne as the best the team has encountered in a year, gained ground at will, and passed with deadly accuracy.
Harry Shipkey, Stanford’s tackle, was placed in a class with Ed. Weir of Nebraska by Rockne, and Weir was universally named an all-American. Ted Shipkey at end played a remarkable game of football for the Pacific coast team.
Captain Walsh is being sought after by Santa Clara University to coach the football team there, but the affair has not reached a definite stage as yet.
It might be interesting to note, from among a variety of opinions expressed on the game, these:
(1)	Stanford, exemplifying the best that the coast has to offer, was rated as more close to Army style of football than to any other encountered in the regular season. Stanford’s line, Rockne said, was better than Nebraska’s.
(2)	Nevers, the Stanford star, has a counterpart in Wyckoff of Georgia Tech.
(3)	Walsh, the Notre Dame center, was rated above Babe Hor-rell, the California captain and allAmerican, by the three Stanford linesmen who played nearest him.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	417
:===================================^
REDUCED PRICES
ON HIGH GRADE
Mens Furnishings and Hats and Caps
HARRY J. PFLUM
l 1 3 W. Colfax Ave, Next to Palais Royale
Dr. Frank J. Powers
University Physician
The SOUTH BEND INN
The city’s Premier Eating Place Announces
“Butch” Herbert and His N. D.
Jazz Jugglers—Popular 5-Piece Orchestra
6:00 TO 8:00 P. M. DAILY
A LA CARTE SERVICE
■ -	----—	— ----I
YELLOW CAB CO
710 NILES AVENUE
PHONE MAIN 5200
418
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Engineer Surveys Campus

On the East Side he discovered an Establishment heretofore unknown to him. He did not know that such good meals could be had at such low prices near by.
You can save carfare, time and money by trading at
The Varsity Supply Store
COMMUTATION TICKETS, $5.50 FOR $5.00
Chez Pierre
247 EAST ONTARIO : : CHICAGO
: : ONE BLOCK EAST OF MICHIGAN : :
ANNOUNCES AN
Inter-Collegiate, Informal
Friday, February 6
And Each Friday Thereafter
Admission One-half to Student Members, or $1.65 per Couple.
VISIT THE
Center Chop Shop
AND
Club Rooms
...Light Lunches... Steaks and Chops
5EO


Send a postal or phone for Complimentary Membership Card, or apply at office of your paper.
Special Souvenirs and Entertainment
PHONE: SUPERIOR 1347
115 WEST CENTER STREET BEHIND OLIVER-THEATRE
- = = -= • -