Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL io, 1886.	No. 30
Omar’s Conquest.
BY MARION MUIR.
In the world of sand, where Mahomet’s star Flamed over the veering chances of war, Where the yellow Euphrates seaward flows, A broken tribe had turned on its foes, With torn burnoose and yataghan Stained by the failing life of man.
And, beside them, women and little ones Between the river and Omar’s guns.
One last wild charge ere the Arab men
Are crushed, like the rank, green growth of the fen And there, at the head of his horsemen ride Their chieftain’s Zilla and Zobeide.
Daughters of Hassan’s strong old age, Pure as the doves under AllalHs throne, ■ True at heart as the Prophet’s own.
With the glad, swift flight of birds from a cage They dashed at the troops; but the horses turned, And the maids were captured by men they spurned.
They had sought free death, and alone they stood Slaves to the victor and hopeless of good. But on Omar’s stern, brown features broke The light of a smile, as their doom he spoke—
“ My Leila, be kind to these desolate girls;
Teach them of glory and guard them as pearls.” And the Pacha’s wife, with a woman’s art, Took the breathless captives with her apart. In a dim kiosk of her gardens, far From the hot red breath of malignant war, She gave them bright robes and chains of gold And much of her own rich jewels she told.
“ All these may the bride of a brave man claim,” Said Leila the fair, but no answer came.
Splendid in silks and plaited hair, .
But black of brow- as souls in despair, . By Omar’s order they stood one day, \Yhile his youngest and bravest passed that way; For some of his best had sought to wed
The wild maids whom old Hassan bred. •
“ Choose now from these,” as they went by, Said Leila behind their screen with a sigh.
“ For brave and handsome and strong and true .
Is every emir who asks for you.”
But they answered not, till the Pacha’s voice Offered to each the gift of her choice.
“ My lord 1 ” cried Zilla, the tallest, “content Were we with the hard, rude life of the tent. Leave the wind to her freedom, unloose the wild dove; To our people restore us, spare those whom we love; Better bread from the hand of a friend, O my lord, Than to live like a queen on the gains of the sword. Send us back to the father who trained us to feel ' The thought of dishonor more sharp than the steel.”
Then Omar arose: “ God speaketh, O daughter, to-day, Through the lips of a woman; have each her own way. Go back to the tents of your people, and ride Forever in safety, for all on my side.”	.
No more than this doth the chronicle Of the fierce brown riders of Asia tell; Only that Omar rose in his fame Till the desert echoes were loud with his name; And deep in the heart of the desert bands Was love that heeded his least commands. ■
The Saracens in Spain.
BY FRANK H. DEXTER, ’87
II.—THE OCCUPATION.
From the field of Guadalete the Moslem crescent rose upon the shattered fragments of thestand-ard of the Christians. Tarik followed up his ad- . vantage and advanced into the interior. Dividing his army, he scoured and pillaged the country far and wide, driving the astonished inhabitants before. -him, and taking in quick succession the cities of Malaga, Granada, Jaeh, Cord ova j and Toledo,; the capital of the Gothic kings. The Emir Muza af- ; rived soon afterwards from Africa, bringing-re-enforcements; and, while on,his way. to join Tarik, . ? . captured the important city of Seville on the Guad- , alquiver.^ Valencia and Murcia, where the patri- <
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
otic Theodomir retired to wage war among his native mountains, were quickly overrun and brought under the control of the Saracens, and in a few short months the whole of Andalusia (Arabic, Andalos'} was in the possession of the infidel.
“ The prostrate south to her destroyer yields Her boasted titles and her golden fields.”
After the junction with Tarik at Toledo, Muza divided his force into three divisions, in order to make a complete tour of the peninsula. The first, commanded by himself, started in a northwesterly direction,intending’ to unite in the north with Tarik, who proceeded eastward through the fertile valleys of Valencia, and thence, striking the Ebro,followed that river northward as far as the city of Saragossa. The other division was placed in charge of Abd-al-Asis, son of the Emir, to secure the conquests made in the South. ’
Muza came up to Tarik at Saragossa, and after combining the armies to take, this place, he advanced across the rugged Pyrenees into France, where he plundered the wealthy city of Narbonne, and rifled the temples of their treasures. After gaining Saragossa, Tarik had descended the river and retraced his march the same way in which he came, but the Emir returned to Andalusia, or southern Spain, by a circuitous route through the Cantabrian Mountains till he arrived at the Atlantic Ocean, along- whose shores he skirted in his southward march.	'
These, and various other expeditions actively carried on, completed, in a few years, the conquest of the greater part of Spain, which was then made a province of the eastern Khalifate, and subject to oriental rule.. Dazzled by their achievements, the Saracens even attempted the conquest of all Europe; but in the battle of Tours, 732, Karl of the Hammer, Duke of the Franks, effectually crushed their hopes, and drove them back beyond the Pyrenees where they thereafter confined themselves. Those of the Goths who remained in the conquered provinces were brought under the strict yoke of the invader; the others were driven into the mountainous districts of th.e North, where they collected the scattered remnants of their army and nation and prepared to lay the foundation for their future independence.
We have now arrived at that period in the story of the conquest ■ which marks the firm establishment of the Moslem power in Spain—the very establishment of which was productive of a reaction that eventually caused its fall. .
Among the mountains and valleys of the Asturias, far up in the northwestern part of the peninsula, Pelayo, a Spanish prince of noble character, had been elected (718) by his countrymen as their chief; and under him began the war of recovery, which lasted for nearly eight hundred years. Thus was ’ the foundation laid for that kingdom which ultimately embraced all Spain, and rivalled in grandeur the mightiest nations of the globe. ' •	.
PROGRESS OF THE SARACENS.
The Arabs and Moors, having secured their prize and possessing absolute sway over it, from the At
lantic to the Mediterranean, and from the southern straits to the rocky barriers of the North, began to quarrel among themselves as to its disposal. In the present instance the various chiefs, in order to settle a disputed question of succession, agreed to call from Africa a youth, named Abd-er-Rahman, of the house of Omeya, whose family had been exterminated in the East by the opposite party of Abbassides. They invested him with the ruling power, and he became the founder of the illustrious line of the Omeyades (755—1038), whose beneficent and, for the most part, peaceful rule raised conquered Spain to a high degree of political advancement and intellectual prosperity.
With the coming of Abd-er-Rahman, in 755, was established the independent Emirate of Cordova, modelled after the eastern Khalifate. The Spanish Khalifs were the supreme rulers, both in matters of government and faith; in them the Koran found its expositors and supporters.
The country was divided into six provinces, each governed by a Wali, whose authority in his own dominion, when once received, was*absolute, except in so far as acknowledging themselves vassals of the Khalif. Under the Walis stood the Alkaldes, or subordinate executive officers, whilst in every town were Kadis, or judges, who administered the laws severely and in strict accordance with the tenets of the Koran.
Abd-er-Rahman, as indeed most of his successors in the Omeyad dynasty, sought to repair the ravages and destruction caused by the invasion. Immediately after the final reduction myriads of Moors swarmed into Andalusia where, under the encouragement and protection of the successive Khalifs, they devoted themselves to agriculture, art, and science. The plunder taken from the Gothic cities, with the heavy taxes and imposts levied upon the conquered Christians, supplied the dynastic coffers with ample means to indulge the tastes of these ambitious rulers at home and to prosecute their fanatic wars abroad. Cordova, their capital, and many other cities were improved and enriched by productions of art, public and private buildings, fine roads, and numerous other works whose remains may be seen even’ in the present day, and which, when seen, cause the observer to stand in admiration of their beauty and astonishment at the evidences of culture so dissonant with the rapacious and destructive tendencies of the early Saracens.
Moorish Spain may be said to have attained its highest degree of material progress under Abd-er-Rahman III (912-961) and Alhakem II (961-976), whose reigns have been termed “ the golden age of Andalos”—“the Augustan age of Cordova.”
Of their work more will he said in the conclusion; suffice it here to remark that upon the death of Alhakem, the last great ruler of his line, and that of his famous successor in the regency, Alman-zor, the glory of their empire began to decline.
The soft climate arid the sunny skies of Spain turned the Saracens, as it did the Goths before, from the occupations, of war to the more genial pleasures of their gardens and palaces. More than this: it must have been expected that a religion as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	475
sensual as that of Mahominetanism should eventually sap the vigorous life-blood of the race by giving unbridled license to their- passions. Confusion arose among the governors in the matter of succession in the Khalifate, the result of which was to split them up into numerous factions, whose fierce and sanguinary disputes plunged their state into discord and rendered it a prey to. the evils of anarchy. Upon the extinction of the Omeyad dynasty by the death of Hashem IV, in 1038, . there followed a host of aspirants whom the fortunes of the various factions placed in the chair of tottering Khalifate. It was the story of the Roman emperors and the Praatorian guard re-enacted; and the governors, taking advantage of this condition of affairs, declared their provinces independent and free, assuming to themselves, at the same time, the title and dignity of kings.
The history of nationsand theimmemorial experience of mankind has shown that when jealousy and selfish intrigue figure in the fabric of state, then is its downfall only a question of time—subsequent events proved -that Moorish Spain was no exception. “Allah Akhbar I” exclaims the devout Arabian chronicler when recording the glory of his nation; the pious Christian reader adds, as he reflects upon the foregoing events, “ Wonderful are the ways of the Lord! ” being convinced of the manifest intervention of Providence in disposing these affairs to best promote the welfare of His chosen people.
• •••••••
THE RISE OF THE SPANISH STATES.
Thus far, in treating the second part of these papers we have considered only the fortunes of the Moors and Arabs, and that, too, in a necessarily brief and imperfect manner; but let us return to an earlier stage in this narrative where,in the bosom of the Pyrenees and Asturian mountains, the rockribbed cradle of Spanish power, we left the little kingdom of Pelayo struggling successfully upon the remains of the old Gothic realm.
Though great numbers of the lower class and a few weak-minded nobles remained in the conquered provinces, and submitted to the thraldom of the infidel, there were many brave souls who preferred hardship and suffering under the free skies of the north to the ease and security offered those who would freely embrace the faith and yoke of the conquerors.
The valley of Covadonga, reposing amid the towering mountains in the extreme north of the peninsula, became the rallying point for the Goths; and the echoes which rolled from here upon the defeat by Pelayo of a powerful Moorish force sent against them, was the first indication the astonished Moslems received of the storm that was to break upon them from this quarter. From the narrow •plains of Covadonga a company of determined warriors went forth to begin the reconquest of all Spain. Gijon, a dark, little hamlet, on the northern coast, was the first place secured to the Christian arms; the capture of Leon soon followed, and from this time the little kingdom of Oviedo, or |
Gothia, began to steadily advance in importance and power. -
Under Pelayo and his immediate successors the Saracens were continually repulsed. Adversity had revived the martial and self-reliant character of the race; while the hardy habits of life to which they were now subjected developed in them a valorous and noble spirit which impelled them rapidly forward in the work of reorganization and retrieval. Originally confined to the remote districts of the Asturias, the Goths soon extended their victories and influence westward to the sea-shore, and southward to a considerable extent. In 750, Alfonso I, second successor of Pelayo, reconquered Gallicia in the northwest, assuming at the ime the title of King of the Asturias; and in 759, Troila added Oviedo to their dominions, which city is then made their capital. Towards the year 850, the Christians had advanced as far as the Duero and the valley of the Ebro; while that portion of country lying along the north bank of the former river acquired the name of Carnal Gothici from the many battles fought there between the two hostile races.
Alfonso III, the fourteenth king of Gothia, made himself master of all that country known as Leon, and his son, Ordono II, who transferred the capital to the city of that name, assumed, in 918, the title of King of Leon, which now comprised Asturia, Gallicia, Old Castile, and Leon. Thus did the power of the Christians become permanently established on a firm basis, and such is, in brief, the origin of the earliest Spanish state— of Leon. But this leads us to the consideration of the fortunes of the kingdom of Castile, which rose almost cotemporaneous with that of Leon.
CASTILE.
The name Castile seems to have been given to this state from the great number of castles—Castillos—which protected its borders from the inroads of the Moors. These castles were the residences of powerful counts, in whom the power of the land was distributed, and who held a cartes^ or assembly, as early as 759, in the city of Burgos, for the purpose of consolidation, giving to themselves the title of “ Counts of Burgos,” and choosing this city for their capital. Subsequently, they became vassals of the King of Leon; but, ever haughty and bold, they could brook nothing but absolute independence, and this they achieved in the year 961, when Castile was formallv declared a kingdom.
Notwithstanding the fact that the dissensions and civil wars which raged in many Moorish provinces, and the feeble efforts of weak princes in the Khalifate, permitted the gradual encroachments of the Christians, under Mahomet Almanzor—the renowned vizier of the Khalif Hashem II—the Moorish armies checked and even drove them back into their old, strongholds of the Asturias (990). But upon the advance of Almanzor, a few years later, with a powerful force, intended to effectually crush the Spanish power, he was met on the plains of KuIa-’at-Anasor, or Calacanasor, near the city of Medina Caeli, in Castile; where the.united Chris
476	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tian princes experienced a glorious victory, in the . year 998. From this time may the decline of the Moslem empire in Spain be more strictly reckoned. But here let us cast a glance at the origin and fortunes of the kingdoms of Navarre and Aragon, which now began to claim the attention of Moor and Christian by their increasing prominence.
NAVARRE AND ARAGON.
Aboutthe time that the Saracens were obtaininga foothold in Spain after the conquest, the victorious arms of Pepin-le-Bref and his son, the great Charlemagne, were rapidly extending the limits of their empire north of the Pyrenees. During the troubles which arose among the Saracens precedent to the founding of the Omeyad dynasty, the Franks entered Spain and added the whole northeastern part to their already vast dominions. Out of this grew, in the course of time, the several provinces of Na-• varre, Catalonia, Barcelona, and Aragon which, like those of Castile in its early state, were in the hands of various princes and “ border counts.” The civil wars which raged among the sons of Louis De-bonnaire .gave an opportunity to these counts to shake themselves free of the declining French monarchy and elect as their chief, Garsias Arista, who assumed the royal title in 850—being the first sovereign of Navarre. Under the rule of Sancho III (1000-1035), this kingdom advanced rapidly in conquest and power—its rule extending over Aragon and many other provinces of northern Spain.
In 1033, however, Sancho divided his possessions, giving to his son Ramiro the county of Aragon, which thenceforth supported the dignities of royalty. Thus, last in order, arose the kingdom of Aragon, completing the number of the four Christian states which, at the opening of the eleventh century, were, permanently established in Spain.
PROGRESS OF THE SPANIARDS.
For more than two centuries the empire of the Saracen was being gradually circumscribed so that, at the time in question, they retained scarcely half of the peninsula. By the exertions of their successive princes and the valor of their people, the Spaniards had recovered a great portion of their ancient heritage—dividing it according to conquest, and adding it to their increasing possessions. Warfare was now the only occupation, and this people, like their Gothic ancestors, became a nation of hardened warriors whose prowess and fame commanded the admiration of the world. Nor by mere force of arms alone, did they pursue their course of aggrandizement, but wise legislation and respect for the laws at home secured the power that was obtained by conquest abroad.
The manner of government was much the same in the four kingdoms—there being almost identical institutions in each, and these were entirely unlike those of their trans-Pyreneean neighbors of that time. Though living under the shadow of a throne, the people jealously guarded their rights, and prevented any approach on the part of their sovereigns to despotism. Never, perhaps, was a race of peo-pie developed with such liberty-loving instincts, or
with more originality in their progressive methods as these same Spanish Christians, the ancestors of the present inhabitants of Spain.
As stated before, the powerful nobles of the land resolved themselves into a legislative body to which the name of cortes was universally applied, and in which, in the respective kingdoms, was transacted the business-of the nation.
It appears that the prerogatives of kingship were few and carefully limited; for the real power resided in the grandees, or, as they were called, ricos hombres, who corresponded to the barons of England. The doctrine of “ the divine right of kings ” seems to have been unknown; but, nevertheless, the sovereigns never lacked the respect and fealty of their subjects. There was still an inferior class of nobilitv—in Castile, the hidalgos, and in Aragon the caballeros, or knights—who held their estates as vassals of the more powerful lords, under the same conditions observed elsewhere under the feudal system. Over all these stood a judicial institution, known in Castile as the Hermandad, or Brother-■ hood; and in Aragon, as the Justicia, whose duty it was to regulate general matters, and pass on questions respectively referred to them for final decision.
In the matter of science’and art, the Christian states of Spain were not behind the other nations of Europe; but an enthusiasm sprang up, under the fostering care of their cultivated princes, which added many a production and a number of names to the great ones of history. Chivalry advanced to its greatest perfection among the early Spaniards, whose long and perilous wars with the Moors, frequently carried on under romantic circumstances, gave to their warriors a peculiarly chivalrous and semi-heroic character. Indeed, the early history of these states is replete with instances of heroic bravery and gallantry displayed by the Spanish warriors, both on the battle-field and in the castle; whilst a narrative of the exploits of certain heroes reads more like a highly-colored romance than the sober and veritable facts of history.
Fernan Gonzalez, who lived in the early part of the tenth century, and was the founder of the sovereignty of Castile, has made his name celebrated by his wonderful exploits against the Moors in his successful efforts to extend his territory. Of the marvellous deeds of Rodrigo Diaz, el Cid Cam/peador, that famous character of the Middle Age chivalry, enough might be written to fill volumes. By his perso’nal efforts he wrested from the Spanish Saracens the fairest portions of their conquest; and so great became his fame that he was acknowledged first among all the warriors of o	o
his day, deserving in an eminent degree the appellation of El Gran Guerrero—“ The Great Warrior.”
Great as were the advances of the Christian states, there is no doubt but that their progress was greatly retarded by the quarrels, that frequently broke out among themselves. Owing to the turbulent and unsettled state of affairs, bloody disputes sometimes arose between the. different princes about matters of possession and succession; so that the swords of their warriors, when not occupied in securing Moslem trophies, were engaged in break-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing Spanish heads. However, in their wars against the infidel they acknowledged a common cause; and when united to attain the common object, their achievements were generally crowned with glory and success.
The last Spanish Khalif—Abd-el-Malek—was assassinated in 1060, after which the Moorish provinces became more exposed than ever to distractions from within and the attacks of the Christians from without.
Upon the death of Bermudo III, of Leon, in 1037, Fernando I, of Castile, united the two kingdoms, forming, thenceforth, the strongest Spanish state, though it was not until two centuries later that they remained permanently as one. During the latter part of the eleventh century, under Fernando and his near successor, Alfonso VI, the sway of Castile extended also over the Asturias and Gallicia, as well as the county of Portu Cale (Portugal).
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
-	United. Labor.
Suggested by the verses on '■'■Ireland's Vengeance."
But hold thy giant power well in hand;
Let no wild folly follow in thy train.
Thou hast the sceptre; but begin thy reign
With loving promise for our common land:
As the great sea that sweeps across the sand
—Moaning, recedeth when it reach the line To mark its limit, set by God’s own hand,—
Unlike that crazy king who, flown with wine, Mocking did for the sacred vessels call, And, lo! there flashed across the palace wall
His doom,—so be not drunk with new-found power, But stand serenely just, in this thy hour ■
Of triumph. Behind thee lies the Past and its long night;—.
To-morrow’s golden glory dawns in sight!
T. E. S.
The Abbey.
It was at the close of an early spring day, when nature in Ireland was reviving from her winter’s sleep, and the air at least, though not vegetation, gave promise of an abatement of the rigor of the season, that my companion and I were coming from the southwest, within a few rods of an old abbey. We held our course in the direction of the river, along which there is a pleasing approach to the grand old structure. Having come to the river, we stood on its bank, gazing at its clear stream, now winding its way joyfully over a bed of granite, then murmuring around the enormous piles of stone rolled down from the top of the hill which obstructed its course. Beautiful shells and pebbles were half concealed in the limpid stream. Having crossed over, by an arch formed by these fallen stones, we stood on the opposite shore, lost in admiration of the scene that surrounded us.
477
The general aspect of the country is that of the . 1 green pastoral hills. The recesses of this sylvan . retreat are allowed to remain undisturbed, except,.	\ \ .
now and then, bv some hunter and his hounds, or . -. " :. *	-	- 'k '	■ - .
a pilgrim with staff directing his weary steps to A'A : ; the door of the abbey. A reason for this is found '	.
in the too circuitous road around the base of: the . hill, or the indirect and rugged course leading to. ... it on one side. But our guide, having a knowl- . V . edge of the district, knew howto direct his path J so as to surmount such obstacles. Being at the base of the hill a few hours before sunset, we •	.	.
began its rugged ascent. The scenery at that hour, < as you may imagine, was grand; and I, though\	<
a lover of nature’s grandest scenes, but yet noten- <<-?■--dowed with its lofty sentiments, will strive to give*. ; / you a faint idea of the abbey and its surroundings. - ? -	, ,
The landscape was still illumined by the reflec- -1	.
tion of the evening sun, sometimes , thrown back .--1	-
from the stream, sometimes resting on gray rocks, . huge cumbers of the soil, and sometimes content-	?
ing itself with gilding the banks of the stream,	.
tinged alternately gray, green, or ruddy, as the' c ground itself consisted of rock or grassy turf; or /	’
looked at a distance like a rampart of dark’red	. -
porphyry. Occasionally, too, the eye rested on the steep, brown, extended moorland, as the sunbeam .	;	-
glanced back from the mountain stream, whose /	,
lustre, like that of the eye in the human face, .	'
gives life and vivacity to every feature around. *	'
While going up the steep hill, we often stopped : . ~ to gaze on the gorgeous scenery. Here and there lay huge boulders, and trunks of old trees covered ;.	.
with moss. Sometimes ivy and vines of different .	.
hues were seen twisted around the trees, bending with majestic mien, as if inviting us to sit beneath .	/ '
their pleasant shades; at other times, little springs . ?	.
were seen oozing out from amid the rocks, form- .	.
ing little cataracts and ripplets over the varied-col-.. -oredstones. While thus engaged in looking around me, my attention was directed by my companion ? ; : to something which he had seen a few rods before .\ us. It was a spring running from , a little cave, - - \	.
about three feet in diameter, whose entrance was ;	.
studded with broken geodes, thus forming a mag- ... nificent scene when the sun shone upon it, casting	.
the brilliancy of its diamond forms upon the water; r :	’	!
hemmed in by an embankment of grassy turf,	-
forming, as it were, a basin for the water running. U ... from the little cave. On one side of the basin.sat .	; r.
a little bird, dipping its bill, ever and anon into the ' t-water, then raising it up towards heaven, chirping. . < 4. -a few sweet notes, as if returning thanks to God. ^:-A'-:\ A~ for the means of slaking its thirst. On the other ■ f .;	f
side, a little distance from the verge of the basin, i x . .?• a little rabbit was sitting, with playful eyes and ■ NAA ; cocked ears, looking at its friend on the opposite. :	IA ( ;
side. ■	' -	• ' — . ' :	- AA'A
When we reached the summit of the hill, our eyes knew not to what object first to turn. Atthe-h'x^ suggestion of my companion, we sat down upon • f:AA”i an old oak,which was felled by some.woodman during the previous winter. While'thus sitting/< gazing upon the scene around, us,.we breathed; in?:.. the balmy air, our eyes gladdened by,the sightLof, '	j
47s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the green grass, our ears charmed by the sweet voices of the little birds in their sport among the trees and shrubs. Can you not, gentle reader, imagine how, if you were in our condition, your nerves would tingle with the pleasure of an indescribable, luxurious repose? While looking behind us over the vast extended moorland, we saw farmers returning from the fields with plough and horse, and the smoke rising from the chimneys of their small cottages. And thus for miles and miles around the o	__
rustic scene was displayed. The setting sun was leaving its golden gleams upon the dead foliage of the forest trees, draping their decay in a garment of rich glory, as we started to descend the hill.
Desirous of arriving in time for the evening Benediction, we hastened our steps onwards. We stopped not to gather the rich blue violets, which exhaled beneath our tread their delicate perfume; nor paused to watch the emerald-tinted lizard as it darted into its covert, at'the sound of our coming footsteps. The sun had now set behind the lofty hill, and the moon had not yet risen, when we arrived at the abbey. Just as I was about to knock at the door, my companion, touching me with his left hand, and holding up his right in astonishment, said: “Hist! some one is singing.” And as we stood in silence, we heard the first strains of the “(9 Salutaris HostiaP’' rolling out from the walls, re-echoing through the lofty trees amid the solitude. Desirous of going into the chapel before Benediction was over, I rapped, and there appeared to us in the open door an old monk. His features, imperfectly seen under the cowl, were prepossessing in a high degree. In his hand he held a small book. His cheeks and brow looked as though the warm life-blood had disappeared from his face; and dark and clinging curls (which were seen when he removed the cowl at his entrance into the chapel) clustered about his tonsure. We told him the object of our visit. He admitted us (for our guide was well acquainted at the abbey), and, closing the large door, which seemed as if it would break the huge hinges upon which it swung, he motioned us to follow. Then, leading us through ' a dark ante-room, he stood before a door, and said, in a low voice: “This is the chapel,” at the same time opening the door, disclosing to us a scene the more lovely because amid such quiet and solitude. Our attention was first attracted, when kneeling near the door, to the Blessed Sacrament exposed in the ostensorium, seated upon a canopy covered with golden tapestry, surrounded by little lights in starlike form. On each side of the tabernacle stood three rows of candles, towering one above the other, thus displaying to us the pictures on the dome-like wall of the sanctuary, and also those of the middle aisle. On the ceiling of the sanctuary was represented, though in an old, artistic manner; heaven. On each side of the main altar, in the wings of . the chapel, stood an altar; on the ceiling above one was a painting of the Resurrection, arid above the other was one of the Assumption. The ceiling of the nave was covered by paintings representing angels in different positions; and, also, the old Patriarchs were portrayed in-their
antique costumes. I would wish to describe whom the personages in particular represent, but they were scarcely visible, on account of the dimness of the light where we knelt. The paintings in the aisles were almost indistinct. On both sides of the walls, the windows and niches were fringed with rich antique friezes; but the columns which upheld the magnificent vaulted roof above our heads, seemed, like the cornices and entablatures, which covered the ceiling in endless variety, to be fast decaying, although they yet retained some of the grandeur -of their old magnificence. Beneath this prodigious accumulation of architectural riches, the greater part of which I could not see, we found the barefooted monks, clad in white tunics partly covered by a black cape, kneeling in reverential awe. And when we entered the chapel, not one of them turned to see who was there, but all the while they poured forth their pure souls in fervent prayer to Him for whom they had left all things, both near and dear. I have said that there was no light in the chapel, except that emitted by the burning candles upon the altar; but I should have excepted also the glorious radiance cast across a portion of the floor by the newly-risen moon, which, streaming through a large square window sunk several feet into the solid wall, threw upon the planking of dark oak an exaggerated outline of “Our Lady of Refuge,” whose image, curiously painted upon its small and lead-framed panes, was flung into broad relief against the flood of light by which it was encircled.
When Benediction was over, we remained mute with admiration, gazing on the internal structure of this admirable edifice. The shades of night overtook us while kneeling in this chapel of the sylvan retreat, where the pleasantness of the groves, the gliding streams, the zephyrs gently whispering among the leaves, the song of birds, and the silence of the place draw all things to it. When we emerged, the scene was changed from what it was when we entered. The chilly night rested upon the abbey as we descended the hill on our homeward march, although the beams of the moon flooded the landscape beneath it, save where dense oaks flung back the light, and rose, tall and frowning, towards the clear sky.
' J.J-F.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Gen. Lew Wallace is meditating over a new '	,	-	o
novel, the scene of which is to be laid in Northern Africa. ’
—A committee is being formed in London for the purpose of celebrating, in January, 1888, the centenary of Lord Byron.	. '
—Mr. Justin Huntly McCarthy, Ml P., is about to publish, through Messrs. Chatto & Windus, a new volume of verse; entitled “ Hafiz in London.”
;—A copy of the “ Ingolsby Legends,” illustrated by Cruikshank, and one of the rarest works associated with him, was recently sold in London for $85. .	.	,
—Mr. Martin F. Tupper has in the press an
■5
X	MW■—M—
4>,	.	——-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	479
autobiographical work, which will be published at Easter, under the title of « My Life as an Author.”
—Mr. Herbert Spencer has contributed an original article to The Popular Science Monthly for | April on the limits and interpretation of the doc1 trine of natural selection, and the position of Mr. i Charles Darwin in respect to the theory of evolution. J	—The verb “to interview” has been adopted
'	into the French language. The Independence.
'	Beige mentions that Le cure de la paroisse a de-
clare au reporter qui V interviewait^ etc. Thus, the American language is spreading over the world.
—Rockstro’s history of music, just published in London, is described as a volume of five hundred pages, comprehensive, and beginning with Hermes Trismegistus, who made a tortoise shell into a lyre upon the banks of the Nile, and ending with Gounod’s “ Mors et Vita,” and Nassenet’s “ Manon.”
•	—During the last private rehearsal of Liszt’s
“ Saint Elizabeth,” on Monday, the Abbe himself entered the hall unexpectedly, and was received with tremendous enthusiasm. He responded by seating himself at the piano and improvising a part of the oratorio. This was his first performance in England in forty-five years.
—The Florentines are about to celebrate the fifth centenary of the birth of their famous townsman, Betto di Bardo, better known as Donatello. The month and day of his birth are uncertain, but an-authentic statement made by himself fixes with sufficient precision 1386 as the year when he was born. Donatello mav be regarded as the creator of modern sculpture.
—In his amusing book, “Music in Fogland,” M. Remo tells the following: “The butler of a great lady of fashion was overheard by her one day discussing the vicissitudes of life with a fellowservant. ‘ My dear feller,’ he ejaculated, ‘ I am afraid that our people are going in for economy. Only fancy, at the party yesterday evening I see with my own eyes my lady and Miss Hisabel a playin’ on one piano at the same time! ’”
—With a view to furthering the knowledge of O	»r5
Oriental history and languages, King Oscar II, of Sweden and Norway, has offered to give two prizes —a gold medal of the approximate value of 1,000 Swedish crowns, and asum of 1,250 Swedish crowns to the authors of the best essays on the following ' subjects: (1) History of the Semitic Languages;
(2) State of Arab Civilization before Mohammed. The’ essays may be written in English, German, ' French, or Latin'. An International Commission has been appointed by His Majesty to adjudicate upon the’ merits of the essays.
—The Prefecture of the Seine will add an art section to a sufficient number of the district libraries •to meet the needs of all the artisan population. This section is to comprise all kinds of books, en--gravings, and photographs bearing on the arts of design, and most of the contents will be lent out for home use. One library of the kind, enriched by private endowments, was opened not long ago, jmd before long the whole of Paris will be provided
with this excellent apparatus ofitechnical education.
—The value of ancient Irish literature received recognition at the hands of German savants and Frenchmen before any aid could be procured to explore it at home. Kuno Meyer, a student of Keltic, has just prepared a volume entitled “Merugud Uilix Maice Leirtis,” or, “The Wandering of Uil-ixis, Sonof Laeretes.” Theoriginal textisin Gaelic characters, and was found in the monastery of Frankford, King’s County. It is supposed to have been written in the beginning of the thirteenth century. The author shows his familiarity with the Homeric narrative, but has incorporated with it fanciful matter of local color. Mr. Meyer is the author of several works in German on Irish subjects.
—It is reported that the new Gilbert and Sullivan opera deals with the Egyptian question, and satirizes the commercial instinct of Englishmen, who hate to annex territory, but do so at the rate of a thousand square miles a year. The chorus is made up of the British army of .occupation and Egyptian girls, the leading soprano being an Egyptian girl, who is a descendant of a Pharaon Princess. It is said, also, that in order to prevent any act of piracy in the United States, an American author is associated in the opera to such an extent as will let him copyright the work. The plot of the new piece is now so far developed that the New York colaborer has received his assignment of several brief passages of dialogue and music to write.
—The oratorio, “ The Three Holy Children,’.’ by Dr. Charles Villiers Stanford, has been performed successfully in Dublin, his native city. The subject is the refusal of Ananias, Azarias, and Misael to adore the golden image of Bel at the command of Nabuchodonosor, and their miraculous delivery from the fiery furnace. The composer has employed representative themes. A notable one symbolizes the Jewish element in the orchestral introduction, and afterwards is used as a solo to the words, “ If I forget thee, O Jerusalem.” The ensemble is picturesque, with Jewish women and Assyrian soldiers in the chorus. The action is described as highly dramatic, the instrumentation glowing, and the melodies full of life and originality. The work closes with a double fugue chorus, after the manner of Handel, the words being the song of the Three Children and the 148th Psalm.
—In the portfolio of Mr. Longfellow, soon after his death, were found the following lines, which were written by him in July, 1879, and which were not made public until recently:
“ In the long, sleepless watches of the night, A gentle face—the face of one long dead— Looks at me from the wall, where round its head -The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light.	’
Here in this room she died, and soul more white Never through martyrdom of fire was led To its repose; nor can in books be read The legend of a life more benedight.
There is a mountain in the distant West .
That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines
Displays a cross of snow upon its side.	-
Such is the cross I wear upon my breast
These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes , And seasons, changeless since the day she died,”
480
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
w WE seHousnc.
Notre Dame, April 10, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Universify of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Now, that we have reached the “ half-way limit” of the last session of the scholastic year, there appear on all sides a renewal of interest and a general manifestation of activity in the work of competition for the various prizes and awards which are to crown the labors of the year in the principal departments, of study. At present, the interest seems to be centred especially upon the struggle for the Grand Gold Medals for English Essay Writing and;for Oratory; and, to increase the excitement of the contest, the number of competitors for each of these special prizes is unusually large, while, apparently, not one of the contestants has any advantage over another. Additional zest has been imparted to the competitions for the class prizes this year by the “ essay ” condition— and no little interest has already been awakened in the work of fulfilling all the requirements necessary to carry off one of these honors. And so it is with other class and honor contests. What we have said simply illustrates the existence of a general spirit of industry and zeal in study. And this healthful emulation thus created cannot be without lasting benefits to the student, whether he be successful or otherwise, in his efforts to gain the crown of victory.
Desultory Discourse on Difficult Diction.
A writer in “ Blackwood,” three or four years ago, affirmed that, “ with the exception of Wordsworth, there is not one celebrated author of this day who has written two pages consecutively without some flagrant impropriety in the gam mar.” With fully as much truth may it be asserted that, - the literati excepted, few can read two pages consecutively without some flagrant impropriety in the pronunciation. Consummate orthoepic skill, even among the educated, is as great a rarity as is genuine complaisance in an oriental seraglio, or Anchovy sauce in a college refectory. The average public man cannot speak fifteen minutes without enunciating a dozen accentual vagaries, while the recitative of the typical stump-orator fairly bristles with blunders more stunning to the auricle of the equable lexicographer than the detonation of a bomb-shell. As for the great mass of men and women, orthoepical monstrosities fall from their mouths as copiously as do despicable oaths from the combative bravo, or equivocal truths from the elucidatory metoposcopist.
While all this is grievously deplorable, it can scarcely be marvelled at. Abstractly considered, English orthoepy is about as lamentably ludicrous, indisputably heinous, and decisively quixotic an art as ever exhausted the exiguous patience of exemplary student, or evoked the condemning diatribes of erudite professor. Not to comment upon the varied sounds, precise, dubious, and evanescent, represented by each of our vowels, or upon the cacophonic results effected by the combination of these vowels with their consonantal relatives, who can fail to discern that our method of accentuation is the most erratic possible divagation from all laws of analogy or euphony ? the perfection of elaborately systematized inconsistency? the apotheosis of preternatural idiocy?*
Orthoepy, then, though not a very recondite, is a decidedly operose study; and to perfect oneself therein is a cyclopean labor. The most long-lived votary of accurate speech may, during all the years of his earthly sojournment, make a specialty of the study; and yet when he has become aged may find himself worsted in an altercation over the pronunciation of such a word as “ casualty,” simplv because the peculiar mode of gyratory prancing formerly performed by the tongue in enunciating the syllables, has fallen into desuetude. No objurgatory ululation, however, will obumbrate’ the patent truth that it is obligatory on all to strive for the attainment of perfect accuracy in speaking or reading their mother-tongue. The student, particularly, who aspires to figure as a professional man, should adequately prepare himself for all orthoepic exigencies. He should be sufficiently philanthropic towards his future self peremptorily to challenge every word concerning the exact pronunciation of
* N. B.—Lexicographers, or others, who dispute the truth of the precedent paragraph, will please communicate with the Professor of Muscular Christianity at this office, Mar-, quis of Queensbury’s rules, and no gloves.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which he entertains the slightest doubt. Nor should this challenging be restricted to words from alien tongues, from the language of Grethe and Beethoven, for instance; it should be extended to the most commonplace terms, such as are purely English, and found in the vocabulary of all.
A cursory examination of a few pages of the dictionary will suffice to demonstrate to the average youth that his speech occasionally and egregiously deviates from the correct standard; and the discovery should inculcate the necessity of his making the examination thorough. The grimy-visaged, blouse-clad citizen who ignores baths and dwells in the midst of bovine squalor, must bid adieu to uncleanly habits, if he purposes becoming the debonair proprietor of a laundry where clothes are cleanly handled. Even so, he who would earn the title of educated man, must make the sacrifice of time and study that he may learn to eschew the ignoble vagaries which constitute a vulgar and vitiated pronunciation. Moral:
“ There are more things in the ‘ Unabridged,’ Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your orthoepy.”
OuELEE I. SHUDSMYLLE.
American Education.
[The Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, recently delivered an address on “ American Education,” before the Dental Association, at their annual banquet, given at the Leland Hotel, in Chicago, and we take pleasure in publishing the following synopsis of it:]
The question of education, whether viewed from a professional or collegiate standpoint, or in the broader and more general sense of the education . imparted to the masses of our fellow-citizens, is always a paramount one.	-
The mind of man, in its uncultivated state, may be likened to the face of nature before being subdued and reduced to fertility by the labor of the skilled and industrious husbandman. The training and education of the child and of the youth shape the future course of the man, and, to a very great extent, decide his destiny. Early association and training, whether for good or for evil, impress an indelible stamp upon the mind, the intellect, the character, that can never be effaced.
It should be the aim, then, of every true friend of education, of every true friend of progress, of every true friend of the human race, to have education, not only complete, comprehensive, symmetrical, and tending to develop, enrich and embellish the mind and intellect, but also shaped by the salutary influence of a sound morality and with a due bent in the direction of man’s eternal welfare. It would be a shame to have said of education in our day what Homer observed of the land of Egypt— namely, that while it produced a great many valuable medicinal drugs, it produced, at the same time, as many deadly poisons.
Collegiate or university education, after all, no matter how thorough it may be, is nothing more than a preparation for the great school of active
work among men in the busy walks of life. The young man who comes forth from the university, fully equipped with all the learning it can impart to him, and firmly convinced that he is in possession of all the knowledge necessary to practise sue-cessfully the profession of his choice, will learn a . great many useful things outside of the university which could not be learned in it. He will find that the greatest school of all is that of diligent ' • * -application to practical and honorable work in the pursuit of his profession or calling.	'
But, aside from the great value of knowledge *	•	•	. ** ■	o *
and education in the learned professions, we find there is nothing that affords more refined pleasure than the possession of a first-class education when applied to its proper and legitimate use. Education enables man to study and enjoy the sublime and the beautiful; it enables him more fully to appreciate the wonderful works of nature and the gifts showered upon him by Providence, and it impresses him with the reason why the Creator at the commencement of time expressed Himself as well pleased with His noblest handiwork.
I am not an advocate of aristocracy in the sense in which the world recognizes it; but if ever there was a legitimate aristocracy on earth, it is to be found in a thorough education and cultivated intellect. Men of the learned professions should be proud and jealous bf their exalted standing. They should do everything in their power to elevate the professional standard and to prevent the intrusion of mountebanks and impostors, who too often earn . disgrace and practise deception upon a too credulous public.
Education in America should assume an aggressive and original attitude upon many questions and problems that have been accepted as settled and binding in past ages. Much of the education and many of the theories upon economic and other questions advanced and taught in other countries are wholly out of place in America. We have in our colleges a class of educators who assume that the text-books used and the theories taught in other landsshould also be used by, and taughtto, the youth of America. Ours is the only country, past or , -present, whose institutions are founded purely upon the theory of an equality of rights. All other nations were founded upon caste and privilege. Their education and economic theories have been dictated ’ in the interest of a privileged class, and whatever rights the people have been able to extort from -that arrogant class had to be extorted in spite of the education, theories, and laws that protected and supported injustice and tyranny. The inno- ' cent multitude were taught that, no matter how profligate, impious, and barbarous were their mas- -ters, these had a vested right to rule and rob them	.
with impunity; and laws were too frequently di-	.'
rected to the end of punishing and destroying all .. < who dared to question this terrible state of things.
The Republic of Washington was a protest against, and a triumph over, caste and privilege . ' < and injustice, no less than a repudiation of many of the economic theories and doctrines that cursed , • and enslaved the majority of mankind for ages.- ;
482	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Like another Moses, standing upon the mountain amid thunder and lightning, bearing the tablets of law, Jefferson appeared with the imperishable doctrine that “ privileges must have an end, and the people are eternal.” The founders of this Republic did not pledge “their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor ” to give to America, by education or otherwise, the systems that cursed other nations. They strove for the elevation, the education, liberty and happiness of all the people—to be forever glorified in the workshops and cottage firesides of this land. They fought for that liberty, and order, and equality, enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence. ’ They preferred to men and to caste and privilege, which pass away, principles which are eternal; and to the brutalities of force and the ravages of wars they preferred the victories of education and equality. They held all citizens to be equal, and all men to be brothers, and recognized no superiority but that of virtue.
How much should we not cherish the memory of those men who made it possible for us such privileges to enjoy 1 Philip of Macedon, in grateful remembrance of Aristotle, his preceptor, to whose excellent training the great conqueror claimed he owed his success in life, rebuilt most magnificently the philosopher’s native city, purely out of affection for him. Even the verv stones upon which Aristotle was wont to walk, and the shades and groves and grottos that were the haunts of his studious years, were marked out by Philip and ornamented and preserved. Americans should treasure the memory of those men who, by their laws and the liberty they procured, did for countless millions of the human race more than Aristotle ever did for Philip of Macedon.
Our education should be not only broad and deep, but also national. Our colleges should give us edu-• cated Americans, not dudes—notwithstanding the recent, but evident, tendency of some of our universities. This modern product of wealth and pseudoeducation is anything but a credit to our country. The very fact that such a thing as a dude moves and walks among us argues a serious defect in our educational system, and makes it the duty of sen- sible Americans to insist upon nationalizing our education. The mission of America is not to make other nations our exemplars, but to advance, teach and elevate mankind. American authors and scholars should be protected and encouraged to give to us and to our children a national literature worthy of our country. Most of the works of foreign authors republished and read in this country are not the kind of literature upon which the American mind should be fed. The general use by Americans of this class of literature, inspired as it is by systems, institutions, and theories of government entirely different from our own, cannot fail to prove pernicious to our institutions, and denation-alizingin its tendency. - We should demand a national literature, and protect and reward educated Americans and authors engaged in the good work of making the intellectual wealth of our country something commensurate with her material , and physical greatness.	.
Daniel Corby.
[The following article, which appeared recently in the Michigan Catholic, is not without its interest to the general reader, as a sketch of the life and works of a good man who deserved well of religion and country; but to most readers of the Scholastic it is of special interest from the fact that the subject oE the sketch is the honored father of one for many years intimately associated with the progress of . Notre Dame—Very Rev.'W. Corby, C. S- C. The article was written by Richard J. Elliott, Esq., of Detroit, father of Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P. ’58.]
One of the earliest members of this colony, the subject of the present notice, was a fine example of the pure-blooded, the vigorous, the intelligent and the religious young men contributed then and subsequently by the Island of Saints to the population of this country. He was born in Birr, King’s County, Ireland, in the year of the rebellion of the United Irishmen, 1798. When 24 years of age he left Ireland to seek his fortune in America; he first landed in Quebec, from whence he proceeded to Montreal, where he was married, in 1824, to Miss Elizabeth Stapleton. Two years later he left x Canada with his young wife and first-born, and arrived in Detroit, in the spring of 1826, and soon after became a real estate operator in city and suburban. property. This part of his business was successfully followed nearly 40 years. About the year 1S30, he purchased a quarter section of land on the banks of Connor’s Creek, in the vicinity of the Gratiot road as a homestead. This he improved and cultivated advantageously, and he ultimately ranked as one of the wealthiest landed proprietors in the county of Wayne. Although this became his home, his investments in Detroit required so much attention that he continued to be identified as a businessman and citizen. .
When, in 1834, the city was afflicted by the Asiatic cholera epidemic, Mr. Corby was among the first to assist Father Kundig in converting old Trinitj7 Church into a temporary hospital for the destitute sick, and contributed largely towards its support. After the epidemic had subsided and the hospital discontinued, the sad effects of the plague still remained in a number of helpless invalids and • many orphan children without homes 01- friends. The care of these was assumed by Fath'er Kundig,, who improvised a hospital and asylum, and in this manner he became the apostle of charity in Detroit; and in this noble work, which subsequently entailed upon its saintly founder grievous troubles and ultimate bankruptcy, he was assisted by Mr. Corby with money and personal influence. In the founding of the parish and the opening of old Trinity Church, Captain White found in him a stanch supporter and a liberal contributor. He became a prominent parishioner of Trinity, and so continued until the dedication of the Church of the Assumption, at Connor’s Creek. When the Irish Repeal Association of Detroit was formed, in 1841, under the auspices of Charles Stewart, he became a contributor and a leading member.
When .the Irish Famine (1846-47) Relief As- , sociation of Detroit was organized under the executive direction of Charles C. Trowbridge, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
subject of this notice contributed largely in kind for the relief of his perishing countrymen; and after the famine had ceased its fearful work, leaving in its track an impoverished people, Mr. Corby sent annually, for a number of years, to the priest of his native parish, a check for £20 sterling for the relief of the deserving poor of his former home. This fact was probably unknown to his family; the writer drew the drafts on his Dublin correspondent for these donations and he was pledged, as in many other instances of a similar kind, to secrecy.
A few years after the advent of Bishop Lefevre the building of churches began; St. Mary’s had already been commenced and nearly completed; New Trinity, St. Joseph’s, and others, following in their order. The people forming the respective and prospective congregations who built these churches were generally mechanics and laboring men, with a few exceptions of well-to-do, or wealthy' persons, and these not the most generous. To aid the construction of every church built during the lifetime of Mr. Corby he contributed liberally. This was the case in regard to the churches. In the founding of the charities his record is a noble one.
It is due to the memory of Mr. Corby, to say that there was not a charitable work commenced during his lifetime that he did not aid generously and continuously. It might be said of him, and truthfully, that he was the fiscal agent of St. Joseph, for he cashed the many drafts of this saint, so frequently appealed to, with a liberality unparalleled. And this work was not done ostentatiously, or for show; few, except the beneficiaries, knew of his benefactions. They were not heralded by the press; his charity was Christian. In many instances in the case of institutions laboring under financial embarrassment, his aid was given anonymously and in no stinted measure. One instance, in particular, might be mentioned. When, in 1853, the Holy See was in need of funds, Mr. Corby sent 2,500 francs as a personal contribution to the Holy Father. The gift was acknowledged by Pius IX, accompanied with a medal. This occurrence was unknown to the public, or even to the immediate friends of the donor, and escaped the knowledge of the press.
This is the simple record of the life of an unassuming, upright Christian gentleman, who, coming to Detroit at an early day, acquired an ample fortune by his own efforts, providing liberally for his family, and generously sharing his wealth for the honor of God and the welfare of humanity. It is all the more fitting it should be told, because it has been so strikingly different.from the record of his cotemporaries in the faith, who inherited greater wealth, and who kept it. This story is a part of the local history of the progress of the Catholic Church in Detroit during the past half century. It is the brief history of a man who did much toward the building of churches and the founding ,of prosperous charities during this period. A few words of his personal history will close this notice. His life was no’t without affliction and trials. Five of his
children were carried to the tomb in early ..years; -his wife, who shared his early struggles, and, who . bore him a large family', died in 1842. He re-married, in iSqzp Margaret, widow of John. Walters;, sister of General John McManman, now deceased. . Of his children, two are in the religious state. His eldest daughter is Sister Mary Ambrose, of the Convent of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind. His eldest son is a distinguished ecclesiastic, Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., of Notre Dame University, of which institution he is an exPresident; and, by a decree given in Rome, February 27, 1876, was created by the Holy See. Mis-, sionary Apostolic. His remaining sons are Mi-
- chael T. Corby, A. M., resident of Chicago; John and Thomas, who reside at Connor’s Creek.
His daughters—Teresa, wife of Cornelius Corbett, Supt. of the W. U. Telegraph Co., and Miss Minnie Corby—are residents of Detroit. For several years previous to his death Daniel Corby re- . sided in this city. His long and useful career was closed in his 77th year, June 26, 1875.
Personal.
—Mr. M. W. Egan, Chicago, paid a flying visit . to Notre Dame last Sunday.
—Mr. Thomas Ewing, ’69, of Lancaster, O., and United States Consul, passed a few days at the College during the week. -	/
—Mr. J. D. Hammond, of the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York, was among the welcome visitors to the College last week. . .
—Gardner L. Castanedo (Com’l), ’82, is the genial and energetic corresponding Clerk of Nelson’s Wholesale Grocery and Commission Business, New Orleans, La.	.	'
—Hon. Judge C. W. West, of Cynthiana, Ky., father of Master C. F. West, of the Junior department, has been appointed by President Cleveland 7 . to the governorship of Utah. The appointment . has been well made, and we congratulate the Hon. , gentleman upon the merited distinction conferred on him.	■	.
—Among the visitors during the past week were:- -Miss M. E. Smalley, Jefferson, Ohio; Miss Dora Waltman, Kendallville, Ind.; Mr. R. S. Matheson^ , Buffalo, N. Y.; Mrs. L. H. Bungan,. Richmond,< Ind.; Mr. Matthew Malonev, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. M. W. Egan,’Miss Agnes Egan, *Independence, . Iowa; Mrs. J. Clendenen, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. H.. -C. Kelley, St.,Louis, Mo.; M. Alonzo Willson, . Mason City, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Nester, , Marquette, Mich.; P. J. Daley, Lake City, Minn.; 7 7 D. Rheinberger, Chicago, Ill.
—Prof. Albert Zahm, of Notre Dame Uni ver- . sity, was here, Thursday,, to witness.a test of one ? . , of M. & J. Rumely’s strawburners and. large-sized < thrashers. He .is Professor of Mathematics and Director of mechanical engineering at the above" JF Institution. Prof. Zahm, though young, is one of the noted Greek scholars of.the United States. He 7 .



484
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
took part in the Greek play given at Notre Dame a few years ago, it being the first of the kind in the West and the second play of the kind in this country.—Laporte Herald- Chronicle.
-----Everett L. Graves,’72, of San Antonio, Texas, was recently promoted to a responsible position by the Land-Board of the State. While at college here, Mr. Graves was one of the leading students of the Scientific Department, and his former professors and friends are pleased to hear of the success which is attending him. The San Antonio Tim s says:
“Mr. Everett Graves, of this city, who has been appointed to survey state school lands, at a salary of $200 per month, graduated with first honors and took the gold medal in civil engineering at Notre Dame, Ind. The appointment of Mr. Graves was an excellent one, and The Times congratulates him on his good fortune.”
Local Items. '
—Oars.
—Come in.
—Baseball.
—He’s not out.
—Sit down, please.
—Philodemics next Wednesday.
—Will turpentine cure a dog bite?	’
—The Orchestra is rehearsing a new overture.
—The Philopatrians will appear shortly after Easter.
—The Statue on the Dome is illuminated every ' evening, o	-
—The Junior baseball nines look “nobby” in their new suits.
—What was the matter with that dog hurrying towards the lake?	.
—A replevin case will be tried in the Mootcourt this evening.
o
—The regular monthly Conference of the Clergy was held on Thursday.
—The Philodemics will give their literary entertainment next Wednesday evening.
—The carpenters are busy at work on the interior of the extension to the Church.
» —The ventilation of the Printing-Office is something that requires immediate attention.
—The vocal and instrumental concert at Mt. St.
Vincent the other day was a grand affair.
:—x-X. regular blizzard visited these parts last Tuesday, and made people think they were back in midwinter.
—The excavations and grading in the neighbor-o	o	o
hood of the Presbytery have raised the inmates another story.
..—A couple of impromptu races, rowed on Thursday last, showed that the boys have not forgotten the use of their oars.	,
. :—Seven weather prophets were hanged by cowboys at Helena, Montana, last week. This should
be a warning to our local prophets of their impending fate unless they take better care of the weather.
—The second regular meeting of the Senior Baseball Association was held April 8. Messrs. Johns, Jewett, and Archambault were admitted to membership. W. Luhn and C. Stubbs were elected captains of the second nines.
—At the 16th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society, Master A. Press was elected to membership. Essays were read by Masters Konzen, Bunker, McIntosh, Frane and McPhee. Declamations were delivered by Masters Berry and Scherrer.
—Lost—or mysteriously disappeared—an elegantly-mounted pen-holder and an artistically decorated ink bottle—both of the Renaissance style of ornamentation. Finder will please return immediately, if not sooner, to the printer'1 s devil, Scholastic Office, and no questions asked.
—The following among the Seniors are deserving of mention as having received perfect bulletins for the last month: Messrs. M. O’Burns, H. Roth-ert, F. Hagenbarth, W. Koudelka, J. Conlon, J. D. Willson, G. Craig, E. Riley, F. Dexter, D. Byrnes, A. Ancheta, T. Sheridan, C. Rheinberger, C. .Hagerty, P. Burke. In the Juniors, Masters E. Darragh and F. Goebel have merited a like distinction.
—Mr. Michael O’Day has completed the work, in which he has been engaged for some time past, of thoroughly overhauling the arc-light lamps and putting them in excellent order. Mr. O’Day has shown himself a practical and skilful electrician. Among other works, he has completed several electric apparatus in Science Hall, including a small dynamo machine, all of'which prove very serviceable. In his work he has been ably assisted by Mr. Charles Brammer.
—An esteemed friend writes as follows, concerning an item which recently appeared in our Scientific columns:	•
“Some time ago, the Scholastic published an item against the use of snuff. Whatever may have been the view of the author, it is certain that this world-wide custom numbers among its followers many noble heads; and, for our part, we fully subscribe to these words of Moliere:
“ ‘ Quoiqu’en dise Aristote et sa docte cabale, Le tabac est divin et n’a rien qui 1’egale.’ ”
—Last Monday, Captains Fred Combe and Paul Chapin chose their respective nines. The result of the choice is the following: The Stars of the East—Paul Chapin, 1st Base; Chas. Combe, Catcher; Jos. Cusack, L. Field; H. Luhn, Short Stop; W. Cooney, 3d Base; Jas. Rahilly, C. Field; Jno. Willson, R. Field; Wm. Harless, 2d Base; A. Browne, Pitcher. .
The Universities—Fred Combe, 1st Base; C. Duffin, Pitcher; V. Burke, Catcher; Jno. Nester, 2d Base; A. McNulty, Short Stop; M. Dolan, 3d Base;.Chas. Paschel, R. Field; H. Paschel, L. Field; W. Breen, C. Field. .
—The 17th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean .Association was held Wednesday evening, March-31. -A well-written and carefully
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-.	485
discriminating criticism on the previous meeting was read by M. B. Mulkern. P. V. Brownson read an excellent essay on «The Egypt of the Pharaohs.” Other essays were read by Masters Houlihan and Ewing, and a spirited declamation was given by P. Levin. In the debate which followed, those entitled to mention are: J. Courtney, E. Darragh and T. Goebel. Public readers were appointed as follows: M. O’Kane, L. Chute, P. V. Brownson, T. Cleary, T. Goebel, J. Garrity, D. Regan, H. Long and M. Mulkern. The Society passed an unanimous vote of thanks to Prof. Hoynes and the Law Class for the invitation to attend one of the sessions of the Moot-court.
—One of our arithmeticians has been working on the problem published last week, and sends us the following:
“ The problem in last week’s Scholastic, requiring the amount a man would annually have to add to $100 at compound interest from the time he was 21 years until he was 50 years, in order to be worth $50,000, is very simple, the only difficulty being the liability to make a mistake in the long multiplications and additions; but these operations may be materially shortened by the use of tables of compound interest and logarithms. The amount of $100 foi' 29 years is $541.84; this subtracted from $50,000 is $49,458.16. One dollar compound interest annually for 29 years will amount to $78.10 —dividing 49,458.16, by this we have 633.27, or the sum that must annually be placed at compound interest to produce the amount required.”
—The athletic sports for the season opened with a grand baseball tournament on the Minims’ Campus, participated in by the giants of the Senior department and the pigmies of the Minims. The Senior nine was constituted as follows: Finlay, captain and pitcher; Byrnes, c. f.; Byrnes, c.; Neill, 3d b.; Harrison, s. s.; White, 2d b.; An-eheta, 1st b.; Buddy Prudhomme, r. f.; Jewett, 1. f. The pigmies were composed of McGill, p.; McCourt, 1st b.; McCourt, 2db.; Sweet, c.; McNulty, 3d b.; Landenwich, s. s.; Moncada, r. f.; Crotty, 1. f.; Doss, c. f. The game was hotly contested; “Dan” was knocked hors de combat in the seventhinning, and, amid uproarious applause from the bystanders, the pigmies carried off the honors of the occasion. Mr. P. J. Goulding officiated as umpire; he nobly held to his post and fulfilled its duties, despite the most trying difficulties.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to Most Rev. Archbishop Lamy, of Santa Fe, for several valuable additions to the Bishops’ Gallery; to Rev. P. Rosen, of Lead City, Dakota, for the missal used during the late war by Rev. Father Dillon, chaplain of the 63d Regiment U. S. V.; to Mr. W. Jeanott, of Muskegon, for cabinet photograph of Bishop Richter; to a Friend for a large lithograph of Rt. Rev. Bishop Guiges, of Bytown, C. W., 1857; to Ambrose Hertzog, of Cloutierville, Louisiana, for services rendered in securing articles for the Cabinets; to Rt. Rev. Bishop Durier for souvenir of Mgr. Martin, first Bishop of Natchitoches, La.; to Miss Eliza Allen Starr
for an elegantly framed portrait for the Laymen’s Gallery; to Miss E. Brent for six letters written by Archbishop Carroll; to Signor Gregori for. water color sketches of- the Ltetare Medal; to J. French for a large picture containing photographs of nearly all the United States Generals of the late war; to M. Barry, of Baltimore, for volume of Catholic Expositor, 1844, edited by Very Rev. Felix Varela, D. D., and Rev. Charles Constantine Pise, D. D., also for engravings of Very Rev. W. Matthews, Rector of St. Patrick’s Church, Washington, of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton; to Senator Vorhees, for valuable United States documents; to Representative Ford, for U. S. Reports, etc.'
—The sessions of the University Moot-court held on the 3d and 4th of the present month were the most interesting held during the year; besides, several new departures were marked in the manner of conducting cases. On the convening of the court, Messrs. Byrnes and Goulding called up the case of the State of Indiana vs. F. Adams and Ben Pritchard, charged with murder and found guilty in the second degree at the last session of the court. Leave being obtained, the motion for a new trial was argued by them and contested by Messrs. Finlay and Ancheta on behalf of the State. The motion was sustained. The case of the State vs. J. Creswell charged with assault with attempt to kill was then called. Messrs. Koudelka and Burke appeared for the prosecution; Conlon and Burns, for the defense. The jury, selected from the panel, consisted of Messrs. Cartier, Jewett, H. Paschel, A. Gordon, Rheinberger and Judie. P. McGuire represented the prisoner, entered for his client the plea of “ not guilty,” and set up the defense of insanity. The witnesses for the State were J. D. Willson and J. A. Ancheta; for the defendant, C. D. Saviers and P. J. Goulding.
The attorneys on either side watched closely and took advantage of every turn that would be of benefit to their client. The prosecution, from beginning to end, was ably conducted, and the defense stubbornly contested. Mr. Koudelka had just begun to sum up the evidence when the court announced that it was time for adjournment. The evening of the 4th inst. was devoted exclusively to the arguments, and the attorneys all acquitted themselves with credit, the speeches being among the best ever delivered before the University court. The jury returned a verdict of “guilty,” and assessed the punishment at five years in the penitentiary, and a fine of $500.	•
The Ljetare Medal.
The University of Notre Dame, having conferred . its great medal of gold, known from the feast of to-day as the Lsetare Medal, on such distinguished Catholics. as Dr. Shea, P. C. Keely and Miss . Eliza Allen Starr, respectively eminent in History, Architecture and Art, will to-day, we are informed, honor itself, a distinguished American and illustrious profession by transmitting this precious dec- r oration to General John Newton, Chief of the .
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
Engineer Department of the United States Army. This, happily, is one of the honors which a servant of the country can accept and wear without infringing on the constitutional prohibition which jealously guards to the nation the right to reward its soldiers and other servants. The Republic of letters, in which Notre Dame has its distinguished place, is no foreign power here, and the best energies of the University are devoted to strengthening within our gates the peace which Colonel Newton is so intelligently endeavoring to secure at our outer line. Notre Dame has once more made an admirable selection of the art and the man on whom she places her highest honor. The profession of arms is one of the very noblest known to men. The gens togata^ indeed, we prefer, yet its right hand is the soldier that secures its peace and gives, in the last resort, effect to its decrees. The soldier who aspires to success and to eminence is the very type of discipline and self-restraint. He is the model conqueror of one’s own passion and the model of obedience to the command of lawful authority. He wins respect for just power, and in obedience to it, and by its sword, he defends the household and the city from riot and disorder. If, indeed, the degenerate captain often . abuses - his power and becomes an oppressor or a brawler, it is, nevertheless, a fact that the true soldier ought to be a knight and gentleman, without fear and without reproach. The Church frequently uses the profession of a soldier as the figure of her children encased in warfare, not merely against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. She blesses new knights, and she, the mother and queen of peace, even consecrates their swords and puts her cross in their hands and on their breasts, so that, with manly courage and contempt of danger in good causes, she may inspire sentiments of loyalty, mercy and self-control. Even on her altars she has placed heroic soldiers’ whose virtues or whose witness unto blood have enrolled them in the catalogue of the saints. Therefore, when Notre Dame selects a man of arms for her peaceful homage, she is not out of harmony with the sentiment of honor in which Christian civilization hold soldiers worthy of the name. The distinction conferred on General Newton, as a foremost and distinguished Catholic gentleman, is not less fittingly conferred; for, like Sebastian, a soldier in courts and camps, he has in his day perilled not a little of his temporal prosperity and peace by accepting the religion of the despised and Catholic. His professional success in the most difficult branch of his profession has been so great that it is known to all men. The engineer who planned the abolition of Hell Gate, and obliterated it through the ’ fiand of a little child—called, by the way, after her quae cunctas hcereses diremit—is one on whose' capacity for thorough and complete work in organizing the coast line defences of his country, his fellow-citizens have learned to place abundant trust. They, Catholic no more than Protestant, will rejoice to see him signalled out for such an honor as the Lastare Medal of Notre Dame University.—
Catholic Review.	-
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
- SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Aubrey.- Archambeault, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Bryar, Baca, A. Browne, Breen, P. Burke, Condon, J. Crowe, Coady, Craig, Chapin, Jno. Cusack, W. Collins, Cassidy, Carbajal, Dexter, Dolan, Dempsey, Dooling, Egan, Finlay, Ford, Goulding, Gallardo, Glenn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Haynes, Judie, Jackson, Jeff, Koudelka, H. Kenny, Kendall, Larkin, Ley, Murphy, McNulty, Murdock, A. Meir, McErlain, McGuire, Miller, Nancolas, O’Rourke, Ott, P. Prudhomme, Padilla, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, E. Riley, Regan, Rheinberger, Rodriguez, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Soden, Sack, Snapp, Triplett, C. Williams, W. Williams, Wils n, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Austin, Arts, Akin, Ackerman, Bacigalupo, Brownson, Boos, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Curtis, Cleveland, Colina, Courtney, Cooper, Chute, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, Coles, Chaves, Cain, E. Campbell, S. Campbell, Dougherty, Duffield, Dillon, E. Darragh, Dungan, Dunning, Edgeworth, E. Ewing, Epple, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, J. Fisher, J. Fitzgerald, Fitz-harris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Galarneau, Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hiner, Hall, Inderrieden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Joyce, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Long, McCourt, McConn, McVeigh, McPhee. McIntosh, McNamara. McCart, Muessel, Meehan, Mueller, Mulkern, Mitchell, Macatee, Mulberger, Nealis, Nussbaum, Newton, Nations, O’Gorman, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Press, Prudhomme, Preston, Porter, Regan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, ■ Robinson, Ramirez, H. Smith, F. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Shields, Senn, Spencer, Steele, Scherrer, Stattman, Servis, Talbot, Towner, Tarrant, Tiedrich, Vanselow, Va-lasco, Warner, Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, L. West, Williamson.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Atkinson, Bailey, Bull, Barger, Ciar-coschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Chute, Crotty, Cobbs, Campeau, Dunford; E. Doss, L. Doss, Dewald, Dungan, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, F. Falvey, Farmer, Fontanel, E. Garber, F. Garber, Grant, Graham, Griffin, Haney, Healy, Hillas, Huiskamp, Inderrieden, Jones, Jewett, Keefe, Klaner, Kell- . ner, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, Maloney, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, Mason, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munro, Mitchell, Noonan, Nester, Nussbaum, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Ramsey, Riordan, Rowsey, Stone, Steel; A. Sullivan, D. Sweet, G. Sweet, A. Smart, W. Smart, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Taft, Tillenberg, Williamson.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—accord: ing to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Direc-tor of Studies.] .
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. J. Burns, C. Crowe, Goebel, Stubbs, T. Cleary; Greek—Messrs. C. Crowe, Brownson, Stubbs. T. Cleary, West,’ Sheridan; Logic—J. Ancheta; Moral Philosophy—B- Becker; Rhetoric—C. Neill; English Literature—Messrs. Brownson, Latshaw, Jess, Meagher, Cleary, P. Burke, Moon, Harris, Congdon; Algebra—Messrs. H. Paschel, P. Paschel, Newton, Ewing, Willson; Geometry —Messrs. Houck, Neill, Goebel, Craig, Harrison, Willson, H.Long,Cooper; Trigonometry—E.Ewing; Surveying— C. Rothert; Civil Engineering—J. Ancheta; Mechanics— V. Burke; Botany—Messrs. Ewing. F. Long, G. Hagerty, Hull, Geology—-Messrs. Rothert, Courtney; Zoology—E. Ewing; Physics—Messrs. Rothert, Dexter, Hagenbarth; Chemistry—Messrs. Ancheta, Rothert, Dexter, F. Hagenbarth.	.
THE NOTRE LAME SCHOLASTIC..	487
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile T-Pest of Notre Dame University.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was observed on Lcetare Sunday.
—The lecture before the St. Cecilia Society was upon “The Power of Music to Sway the Human Soul.”
—Mr. Thomas Ewing, United States Consul, accompanied by Prof. John Ewing, of the University, visited friends at St. Mary’s on Sunday.
—An exquisitely illuminated parchment volume, the workmanship executed by a relative of Miss Munger, is on exhibition in the Studio.	"
—The Juniors took a long and pleasant walk not many days ago. It was a real spring day. The skies were clear, the sun warm and cheering, and the ramble was greatly enjoyed.
—St. Luke’s Studio is undergoing repairs and refurnishing; the valuable Arundel collection will be framed, exposed, and clear explanations and descriptions will accompany each piece. Miss Martha Munger is rendering valuable services in the important classification.
—The month of St. Joseph has passed; but the constant devotion and prayers to him through the month have left their happy influence in the hearts of all. His “lilied shrine” has been removed, but not so the grateful love which his grand character must arouse in every pure soul.
—The Roman mosaic cross was won by Cora Prudhomme. Those who drew with her were the Misses T. Balch, Bragdon, Campeau, Clifford, Coll, Cox, Duffield, Griffith, Hertzog, Keyes, Mason, McEwen, Nester, Pierce, Regan, Stumer, Steele, • Sheekey, Smart, Smith and Snowhook.
—Among the youthful members of St. Agnes’ Literary Society who gave the most complete answers to questions proposed in a previous meeting, Dotty Lee is most deserving of mention. Belle Pierce recited in a very graceful manner. With time and care to give full volume to her voice, she will prove a good elocutionist.
—Among the visitors of the week are: Col. W. P. Rend, Chicago; Mr. W. H. Claggett, Lexington, Ill.; Mr. M. W. Egan, Independence, Iowa; Mrs. Moreland, Earlsville, Ind.; Mr. F. A. Foin, Durango, Col.; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Fehr, Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Monsch, Mrs. P. Deuser, Mrs. E. Kellner, Louisville, Ky.; Mrs. English, Columbus, Ohio.	.
—The Graduating and First Senior classes conducted their reception in a manner worthy of their high position in the Academy, and warm praise is due to those among them who did their best to impart character to the entertainment. Many minor topics were introduced, but, taken altogether, the grace and ease with which the conversations were maintained, show an improvement on the past.
—It seems almost unkind to think of the young and rosy-faced maidens who fill our schools and academies, our homes and our affections as being anything else but perfect in form and feature; but, lovely and graceful as many of them are, it requires not a great number of drills in “graceful standing,” or“ calisthenics,” for the skilled observer to note defects, and happy would it be for the observed were said defects readily amended. Stooped shoulders, arms, which, however carefully adorned, are far from straight—to pass over many other distortions where grace and symmetry should exist— not of necessity but from inattention and neglect, are every where to be seen. Were “New Arts” performed every week in the circles of the young of our day, it would prove no small advantage, since the principles involved, and so admirably impressed, would serve to restore tendons and muscles that are awry.	.
—The parlor reception, on Tuesday, afforded a delightful opportunity for improvement to the participants. The main topics of conversation were, first, the award of the “L jet a re Medal,” the noble characteristics of the various recipients; the nature of the services-they have rendered, and the praiseworthy spirit of lofty emulation which the awards will be sure to arouse in the minds and hearts of the young. The next principal topic was the various orders of female religious, their costumes and. institutes. An ancient picture, with explanations in French, displaying the various religious habits, was brought forward, and many very pleasant anecdotes were told; also much important and interestinginformation elicited. The touching history of Louise de Bourbon Conde was brought to mind by the picture of the costume of the “Nuns of the Perpetual Adoration.” The happy thought of the members of the assembly, in granting to her the site of the old Bastile as a proper place whereon to build her convent of expiation, was new to some, but all apprehended the supernatural fitness of the selection.
Taste.
There is the natural taste and the cultivated taste; but it is astonishing to what an extent the.influence of early associations and prejudice is brought to bear upon this faculty. One who has been brought up in tropical climates, where the hues of nature are vivid and bright, admires and selects for clothing, furniture, and the like, objects embracing his favorite colors. The man born in colder climates, regards what is prized by the other as tawdry. The drabs, the browns, in all their variety of shades*; pale colors and subdued tints alone accord with his ideas of refined taste.	,	.
Descendants of the Puritanic or Quaker stock of a hundred years ago, may put white lilies against a white wall, and deal alone in faint and mellow shades. They are liable to fee?a certain indignation when the brilliant plumage bf the pheasant, the oriole, the humming bird, the peacock, or the gay blossoms of the cardinal flower,-the cactus,
4§§	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the tulip, are cited as proofs that the Divine Artist does not spurn them as vulgar; while the ardent Italian, or native of other southern climates, looks upon the tame coloring of the former with disgust.
In this we see the power of early prejudice and association. Forms, as well as colors, are subject to the same rules. The stalwart mountaineer admires the amazonian figure and harsh outlines, which are repulsive to the taste of other localities to which delicacv and more gentle proportions are requisite to constitute beauty of figure.
The more closely we study, the more clearly will we perceive the power of association in forming the taste. That of the connoisseur is very different from the untravelled and the uninformed, though the latter may possess by nature the better judgment of the two. A knowledge of other lands, of olden times and usages, is necessary to render one just in his taste. Because Fra Angelico, and artists of his day, did not understand foreshortning.it does not consequently follow that they were undeserving the name of artists. A shallow, an ignorant observer, who has measured his ideas of art by a modern photograph-gallery, will, ten to one, never notice the charming faces and devout expressions of those antique works. Not, however, because of his superior taste, but because of his narrow experience.
The broad byzantine nimbus and the stiff outline, so frequent in precious pictures painted ages ago, render these tyros insensible to their real worth. They do not grasp the idea of the painter which, in spite of the crudity of the art in which it is embodied, is apparent to the connoisseur. This is to be observed not alone in the unbeliever, who sees in Christianity only an exploded myth of the past, but even in persons who possess the Faith, and who ought to know better. Raphael’s matchless works, even, to their false judgment, are sometimes open to their criticism.
In literature, music, and in codes of manners as well, there is a like want of intelligent judgment. Self-sufficiency takes the place of modest and just investigation; the result is false and unreliable taste.
As modesty is the stamp of real worth, so pretension constitutes theo^ezz letters—-patent of folly. Woman has been accused of jumping at conclusions. Admit the fact. Let her educate her taste in the school of Christian principles andpropriety, and then, whether she jump or arrive slowly at conclusions, she will be sure to be right.
What is the object of culture, if not to impart a facility of judging correctly ? The instinct of faith is the safety of youth, and whatever serves to blunt the keen Christian sense of right in art, literature, manners and morals, is to be dreaded as a profound evil. The study of the few pages devoted to the consideration of the point in question is not sufficient to' constitute perfection in the knowledge necessary to acquire good taste. Compilers of TextBooks do not themselves always possess so desirable ‘ an acquisition. Ari earnest desire, and a firm purpose to secure so importaut an. aid to perseverance in faith is indispensable.. .The trifler will never attain to it. The earnest student, she who looks
beyond appearances to the unchanging Reality, will weigh whatever tends to degrade or to exalt the soul in the true ballance, and her taste will prove an invaluable guide to every virtue.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Alwein, Andreus, Barlow, Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blair, Bubb, Baschamang, Beckmann, Carney, Clendenen, Chaves, Claggett, Coll, Cox, Carroll, Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Duffield, Dart, Desenberg, B. English, A. English, Ewing, Egan, Fuller, Faxon, Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Flannery, Griffith, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Green, Horn, Hummer, B. Heckard, A. Henry, Harlem, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns, Kingsbury, Kennedy, Lang, Levy, Livingston, Laskey, Lawrence, Moon, Munger, Morrison, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, Morse, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, Monahan, Neff, Nagle, North, Nester, Otero, Patrick. Riedinger, Rose, Rend, C. Scully, M. Scully, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Stadtler, Shephard, Stafford, Stocks-dale, Smith, Thornton, Trask, Williams, Wolvin, White, Walsh, I. Wynn. 2d Tablet—Misses Carmien, H. Guise, Lyons, Lauer, Robb, Shields, F. Wynn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ,
Par Excellence—Misses L. Bragdon, S. Campeau, M-Clifford, M. Coll, M. Duffield, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, A-Keyes, M. McEwen, L. Nester, C. Prudhomme, G. Regan, E. Sheekey, M. Smith, B. Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Miss F. Steele.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, L. Caddagan, E. Kendall, M. Lindsey, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, D. Lee, Rawson, J. Wallace.
.	ART DEPARTMENT.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
DRAWING FROM THE CAST AND FROM NATURE.
3d Class—Misses Butler. Egan, M. F. Murphy, Griffith.
FIGURE DRAWING (FROM THE FLAT).
ist Class—Misses Ewing, Heckard.
2D Class—Miss Van Horn.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
3D Class, 2D Div.—MissesBragdon, Neff, Beckmann, H. Nester, G. Nester, Bubb.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Clifford, Levy, Mason, Fenton, Sheekey Thornton, F. Steele, Smart.
PAINTING ON CHINA AND GLASS.
Misses Walsh, Addie Gordon, Cox, E. Donnelly.
LUSTRA PAINTING. ’
Misses Otero, S. St. Clair, I. Wynn.
PAINTING ON VELVET.
Miss Nagle. . OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Miss Ewing.	_
2D Class—Miss Fuller.
3d.Class—Misses Munger, Kingsbury, Kearney, Keyes, Rose, McHale, Lang, Clendenen, Green, Considine, Foih,
2D Diy.—Misses Stadtler, N. Meehan, Shields, G. Coll, Stafford.	‘
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Donnelly, N. Meehan, M. Alwein, Kennedy, Desenberg, Henry, North, Trask, C. McNamara, M. McNamara, Lauer, Faxon, Morse, Neff-, Haney, Stocksdale, Allnoch, Andreus, Carroll, Flannery, M. Smith, Laskey, Harlem. 7	:	.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses.T. Balch, Paul, Pierce, Smart, Haney, Odell, Coll, Martin, Simpson, Hertzog, Prudhomme, Qualey, Wallace, Caddagan, Burtis, Spencer, Rhodes, Lee, Kendall.