Buy Mgiois Christmas Cards
.. aid Help Support the Bengal Missions.
$7.00 for o box of 20 cards and envelopes All proceeds 90 to the Bengal Missions
Order from: The Moreau Missionary Society Notre Dame, Indiana
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
HEALTH
I SPOT
SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
60 GREYHOUND
On Thanksgiving Trips Home
© *
H
EXTRA SAVINGS ON MUND TRIPS—
Add U.S. Tax to All Fares
UNION BUS TERMINAL 117 Western Ave.
Phone 3-8283
6.50
3.30
ST. LOUIS
MILWAUKEE
KANSAS CITY .... 9.75
ONE
DESTINATION
WAY
DESTINATION
DETROIT

SAVE THE DIFFERENCE for Your 1,001 Other Needs from SOUTH BEND to
ONE WAY
...$2.10 .... 5.95
..... 6.05 ..4.45
BUFFALO, N.Y... 10.00
CHICAGO
CLEVELAND
CINCINNATI
PITTSBURGH .$8.85
NEW YORK, N.Y..17.90
There’s A Similar Low Greyhound Fare to Your Hometown!
FREQUENT SCHEDULES
2
The Scholastic
In action
or relaxin’
you’re the
feature
attraction
in Arrow
Sports Shirts
ARROW
»»------------
—SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS—J
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Nov. 21, 1952
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
* PIZZA * SPAGHETTI
Every day but Sunday
* CHICKEN a la cacciatore
Saturday Only
You’re always welcome at . . .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis On the Bus Line.
TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
Aquinas vSgj Library) Gssi BookShop
The Board of Directors of the Aquinas Catholic Center express our gratitude to the individuals who have taken deep personal interest in our work.
AQUINAS LIBRARY* BOOK SHOP
110 E. LaSalle
Notre Dame Spirit Lacking?
Editor:
The following letter is addressed to the students at Notre Dame:
It may seem silly to you, but it happens to be a long-standing custom at our University to have pride in our teams, and to show it whether they win or not.
Last Saturday, after a hard-fought battle with the Nation’s number-one team, the Spartans of Michigan State, our team returned to find both the rail-
From Carton To Icebox-To Hospitality
• OTTIEO UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMFANY RY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
BRING A FRIEND
. . . Take Advantage of our Special Low Notre Dame “2 for 1 ” Rates!
Dial 7-1517
Free Trial Lesson at No Obligation. Featuring the Lowest Rates In Town.

Who gets the all the fun?
dates? Who has It’s the GOOD
DANCERS . . . Naturally! Why wait when you can learn to be a smooth dancer at our low 2 for 1 rates . . . just bring a friend and start today at South Bend's largest and most beautiful studios. Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
106 W. Monroe, comer Michigan
road station and the Circle practically void of welcomers. What happened to that spirit that Notre Dame is so well noted for?
Though you may not think so, that spirit is supposed to be used to support the team after, as well as before, the games.
Maybe there is some excuse for our lack of spirit in welcoming the team, though. The time of arrival wasn’t announced to the student body very well. There were only a few short announcements over the public address system at the noon meal, and they were not repeated at the evening meal. Whatever the excuse, if there can be any, let’s not let anything like this happen again.
Let’s get out and back the team to the hilt.
Bill Burnett
342 Farley
Farley Fumes
Editor:
I wish to take exception to the accusation made in the column of the Scholastic of Nov. 14, in which the men of Farley allegedly dined amid the din of a wild melee—supposedly provoked by Farley freshmen. Because I was present at this meal and remained close to the boys throughout the evening meal, I can assure you that this unfounded tale is ridiculous—only hurtful to us all.
Sincerely yours in Notre Dame, Rev. D. Curtin, C.S.C., Rector, Farley Hall
---o---
Editor:
This letter concerns an article about Farley Hall in “The Week” of last week’s Scholastic. It seems that Farley has been blamed for a riot in the Dining Hall. Mr. Luby claims that Farley marched “en masse” to the Dining Hall, clobbered on the walls and screamed loud screams, toppled stacks of trays and beat the plastic plates quite ferociously.
It is quite evident to us that Mr. Luby either was not at the Dining Hall in person or that he does not know the men of Farley when he sees them.
True, the men of Farley marched “en masse” to the Dining Hall, but this was not out of line. As far as clobbering the walls, etc. goes, maybe some of the boys of Farley did, but certainly not many. Not enough to blame the whole hall anyway. Most of the rioting was at the other end of the Dining Hall.
Mr. Luby’s blaming the riot on Farley Hall is an injustice, not only to the men of Farley, but also to its rector. We, the men of Farley, hope for an apology in next week’s Scholastic.
Sincerely Yours,
Leno Raso, Patrick L. Conroy, George Tombinson, Sam Glori-oso, James Ryther, Paul Sikora, Ben Velotta, Dick Prather, William Weiner, Ronald Renner.
Editor:
I think that a rereading of Cardinal Newman’s Idea of a University is in order for Tom Foote. Ln his column of Nov. 14, he would have Newman say that a gentleman “is one who never inflicts pain.”
This, of course, is the unchristian idea, depicting a man who has substituted self-respect for conscience and graceful conduct for virtue.
Newman actually reads: “Hence it is that it is almost a definition of a gentleman to say he is one that never
(Continued on page 5)
4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Oui- vanquished, but valiant football team was met at the station . . .
Seymore cries again
Seymore Senior, a grouchy old bird who never likes anything, thought that the seats reserved for the senior trip shouldn’t happen to a freshman. Like most of the seniors, Seymore was perched rather precariously on a wobbly little folding chair so low on the field that he only got to see three plays. After a while Seymore contented himself by watching the scoreboard and trying to decode the happy screams and low groans of the MSC cheering section. It was sort of exciting that way. It was almost as exciting as seeing the game.
■
Pardon Us
There are three people who write a peerless column called, “Once Over Lightly” and it appears somewhere in the back of this magazine. Last week they gave their opinion of the other columns which are fortunate enough to appear in the same publication that their work appears in. Their impression of the Week was “Isn’t that nice?” while their own column rated a “So what.” Although we are nowhere near as sophisticated or erudite as those intellectuals who pen “Once Over Lightly,” it seems to us that “Isn’t that nice?” and “So what” mean just about the same thing.
In other words, although they imply that their “art” column is ever so much more urbane, they end up giving the Week an identical rating. To them we say (in our own tarnished, backwoods way) “Say something definite, will you?”
But now “Say something definite will you?” is just what these clever gentlemen said about Paul Zalecki’s column!
The conclusion of this contorted syllogism is this. Since their witty, sophisticated, urbane column is just as indefinite as Zalecki’s column; and since the Week is on the same terms as the party of the first part; then it follows that all three columns are Bush. (If you understand this, make yourself known.)
What this means to you as a reader is this: You are not getting your money’s worth out of the Scholastic and you should go to the Office of Student Accounts and demand your money back.
More jokes may appear next week.
That Wonderful Town
The Chicago Club is doing interesting things these days. You can now become a member of the Chicago Club by paying a mere 25 cents for a very official-looking little membership card. It doesn’t really make any difference if you’re from Staten Island, New York; Anchorage, Alaska; the Okefenokee Swampland; Bad Axe, Michigan; or
7VP/&L CP/CAGO CU/3 GAOUP
Peshtigo, Wisconsin. As long as you’ve got the two-bits, you can become a bona-fide member.
The nice thing about having a membership card is that you get into Chicago Club movies without paying the ten cent tariff usually imposed upon “outsiders.” A membership in the Chicago Club, is then, a season pass to all Chicago Club movies. And well worth the investment, we might add.
Incidentally, the Chicago Club is throwing their big Thanksgiving dance at the Sheraton in just five short days. All those planning to attend the dance and who are not acclimated to the rigors of this affair, are advised to replenish their supply of stomach neutralizers.
Check your coat Mister?
One day last week the herd from 11:30 classes came galloping into the chow hall and prepared to cast their outer garments on the window sill, on the stairs, on the floor, or on top of somebody else’s outer garments. But lo and behold (a rather archaic phrase, which is not very sophisticated) there were prim rows of. bright new wooden hangers dangling from the coat racks, instead of the few broken sticks with bent hooks that used to be there.
Whether these new pieces of furniture will stand the test of time remains to be seen. All this winter they will be subjected to theft, melting snow, irate tempers, and general abuse. But any day now we expect to see sweet, white-haired General George with simonize in hand, polishing the newness back in. If George fails in this noble mission, you can rest assured that our shiny new hangers will evolve into a handful of broken sticks with bent wire hooks. And again you’ll have to cast your outer garments on the window sill, on the stairs, on the floor, or on top of somebody else’s outer garments.
■
Bottom of the Week
... by a tiny handful of loyal fans.
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
inflicts pain. This • definition is both refined and, as far as it goes, accurate.” How far it does not go is the subject of discourse VIII.
Aside . from Newman though, would Foote have the student body applaud unsportsmanlike conduct on the field, or completely ignore it?
For myself, I would prefer to see didacticism confined to the editorial page.
Ed Walsh 220 Fisher Hall -------------------o---
An Open Letter to Notre J)ame Men:
. . . Let me ask you a brilliant question: what is the most stubborn, headstrong, and mulish device ever invented? Let me give you a wise answer: Your radio! Your radio, I am telling you. Your radio! For it never plays what you want. And it never repeats a song, even if you happen to be madly crazy about it.
You want to celebrate your spectacular failure in the final examinations by marching triumphantly and victoriously into the abysmal space of your infinite room while listening to Sousa’s tempes-
(Continued on page 6)
Nov. 21, 1952
NOVEMBER 21
AVON (through Nov. 26)—Umpteen songs and the constant presence of Betty Hutton try hard to save a poor plot in Somebody Loves Me (A-2), the story of showfolk Blossom Seeley and Benny Fields.
COLFAX (through Nov. 26)—Jim Bowie and his famous knife are the subjects of The Iron Mistress (A-2), which stars Alan Ladd with Virginia Mayo as the flighty female he fortunately doesn’t win.
NOVEMBER 22
WNDU and WSBT (kickoff: 1:30 p.m.)—The Fighting Irish have been practicing all week holding onto the ball rather than the opponent. And if our defense has its wind back, ND should do better than another tie with Iowa at Iowa Stadium.
WASHINGTON HALL (3:45, 6:40 and 8:30 p.m.)—Washington Story shows the good side of Congress and all sides of Patricia Neal.
PALAIS ROYALE (8:30-11:30)—It’s dollar day at the Palais, as the Student Senate throws another V-dance.
PALACE (through Nov. 26)—Turning Point has a newsy theme and a good cast but just doesn’t click. A jewel thief is the hero (?) in The Hour of 13 (A-2).
NOVEMBER 26
WASHINGTON HALL (6:15 and 8:35)—Big Carnival, with Kirk “Muscles” Douglas.
NOVEMBER 27
COLFAX (through Dec. 3)—Snows of Kilimanjaro (B) is no improvement on Hemingway’s short story, which could stand some.
GRANADA (through Dec. 3)—Well timed by the Granada and well done by Dore Schary, Plymouth Adventure concerns everybody’s favorite ancestors, the Mayflower crowd. Spencer Tracy plays a villainous captain who reforms.
STATE (three days)—For Randy Scott fans, two westerns: The Nevadan and Santa Fe.
WASHINGTON HALL (four nights and Sunday matinee)—The University Theater presents — free — T. S. Eliot’s moral satire on modern life, The Cocktail Party.
NOVEMBER 29
WASHINGTON HALL (6:20 and 8:35)—Skirts Ahoy has plenty of what usually interests the Walsh Hall faithful.
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—The Irish wind up a topsy-turvy season against the best-in-the-west, Southern Cal.
DRILL HALL—All of the navy’s battleship hangar may be needed to hold everyone for the season’s final after-game dance.
DECEMBER 2
WASHINGTON HALL (two nights)—ND’s busy bandbox plays host to the always-welcome troubadors from Catholic U. The University Players team up with Shakespeare again, this time presenting Love’s Labour’s Lost.
DECEMBER 6
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:25, 6:40, and 8:35 p.m.)—Belles on Their Toes, the sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen, should make even Demosthenes and Cicero break through the plaster with a grin.
DECEMBER 10
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m. — 25 cents)—The Foreign Film series winds up with a German drama. Somewhere in Berlin brings home the tremendous task of rehabilitation which faces the German people after the war.
Letters
(Continued from page 5) tuous Thunderer, but your stubborn radio plays the Funeral March from Beethoven’s Eroica. So you begin to cry.
You want to dream of your St. Mary’s angel while listening to Tschai-kowsky’s The Sleeping Beauty, but your headstrong radio plays Strauss’ Salome. So you become more misoginistic than Schopenhauer I
You want to dream of Oriental grandeur, maharajas, houris, harems, deserts and caravans while listening to Rimsky-Korsakov’s Scheherazade, but your mulish radio pours on you the cold waters of Debussy’s La Mer. So you cool off!
You want to visit Stalin’s “paradise” while listening to Chopin’s Siberian Polonaise, but Marconi’s diabolical invention takes you to Rachmaninoff’s Isle of the Dead. So you drop dead!
Therefore you cannot enjoy music. And music is beautiful, you know. Beautiful and heavenly. Inconceivably heavenly. Billy of Stratford said so a million times in his 37 plays. And Goethe agreed x\dth him whole-heartedly. However, I still say we are unable to enjoy Apollo’s art. Yes, by Apollo!
So let me suggest this: Let us establish a small musical library. Let us buy a few individual phonographs. Let us get all the musical masterworks. This is easy, very easy. If we stop worshipping Dr. Bacchus for awhile we can save a lot of money. And we can buy myriads of records. Billions and trillions of records. Incidentally, may I tell you this confidentially? Last week, Aphrodite, a muse from St. Mary’s, made me blush when she exclaimed: “You Notre Dame men don’t like music!” Well, let us prove that we do like music; that we do love and adore music; that we are as cultured as our ethereal neighbors! For I think we are.
Melodiously Yours,
Panos Bardis
500 Morrissey	’
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 24—Feast of St. John of the Cross, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Tuesday, Nov. 25—Feast of St. Catherine, Virgin, Martyr.
Wednesday Nov. 26—Feast of St. Silvester, Abbot.
Thursday, Nov. 27—Ferial Thursday.
Friday, Nov. 28—Ferial Friday.
Saturday, Nov. 29—Vigil of St. Andrew, Apostle.
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 November 21, 1952 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors
DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .............  News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ..............Features
JOHN F. SAND ....................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’L Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ...........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ______Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ______Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine, Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, pick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet,, John Cywin-iski, Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicherj Jack Healy, Jack .Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and lamination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The building pictured has been called by many names, but its principal claim to fame is that it was Notre Dame’s first building. Now called the “Old College,” its history and present function are presented on pages 20 and 21.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
More Accuracy, Less Sensationalism, Please
The loudest cries of “Poor Sportsmanship” of anyone who happens to read this editorial will not stop us from taking exception to the general tone of the writeups of the Notre Dame-Michigan State game which appeared in the nation’s newspapers.
There is no doubt that the Spartans won the game—it said so on the scoreboard and there were over 50,000 witnesses. We won’t dispute that at all. But consider, for example, such headlines as “Michigan State Rips Notre Dame, 21-3” and “Michigan State Routs Notre Dame, 21-3” which appeared in the Chicago Sun Times and Herald American, respectively. Numerous other examples could be given, but these are representative.
Anyone who saw that game, or heard it on the radio, knows that Michigan State did not rip, and that Notre Dame was not routed. It would seem that many headlines and lead paragraphs were written by men who didn’t know anything about the game except the score, and merely deduced that a game is a rout any time one team scores 21 points and the other scores three. Look at the statistics and see if it was a rout, or even a rip.
We highly resent the entirely wrong impression which this inaccurate journalism will give people about the Notre Dame football team. Yes, they lost, but touchdown marches of one, two, and 24 yards (“sustained drives”) hardly sound like an overwhelming victory to us.
Let’s Go For Pogo
We’re Pogo fans. We’ve indicated that several times in the past. In fact, the ‘possum’s picture appears twice in this issue. Being Pogo fans we wish all the Okefenokee creatures cavorted through the Scholastic every week. But that’s a little bit beyond our power.
Now the South Bend Tribune is considered by many to be a fine, upstanding newspaper. Its extensive campus coverage helps to boost its circulation among ND students. Pogo lovers, however—and this includes a majority of the student body—forsake the Trib for the Chicago Daily News, which has long since been converted to Pogoism.
Once upon a time, the Trib did feature Walt Kelly’s masterpiece, but for some unknown and unfathomable reason dropped it. Maybe the editors thought the philosophy of the simple Georgia swamp characters was too deep for the populace of an industrial city like South Bend. (An insult to the working class!) But even a three-year-old who thinks satire is a part of a tricycle can get a belly laugh from the pictures alone. Maybe they thought Pogo was unpopular. But both Time and Life have raved about him, and polls indicated that the ‘possum pundit might well have beaten both Ike and Adlai had he chosen to run. Maybe that’s the reason—the pro-Eisenhower Tribune was afraid to endorse the I Go Pogo movement. But the election is over and Pogo has forsaken politics.
Pogo’s popularity among all kinds of people can’t be denied. If the Trib should get the urge to perform some public service (wonderful for circulation), we strongly recommend that it do the highest conceivable deed: reinstate Pogo. If you agree, let the Trib know about it. Pogoists of the campus, unite! Let’s all go Pogo, and maybe the Trib will too.
Nov. 21, 1952
7
yin Ideal Gift for or by an N. D. Man
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame
WALDEMAR GURIAN, Editor THOMAS T. McAVOY, FRANK O’MALLEY, Managing Editors
Typical articles of vital and lasting interest:
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
BACKGROUNDS OF MODERN CULTURE
H. Butterfield, Mary Bromage, M. A. Fitzsimons, Waldemar Gurian, Stephen Kertesz,
The Tragic Element in Modem International Conflict
De Valera’s Formula for Irish Nationhood
Britain and the Middle East: 1944-1950
From Lenin to Stalin
Interplay of Soviet and Western Politics in Post War Hungary
Hannah Arendt,
Alfred Cobban,
Alois Dempf,
The Imperialist Character
An Age of Revolutionary Wars: Historical Parallels The Significance of Medieval Intellectual Culture
Robert M. Hutchins, The Theory of State: Edmund Burke
Hans Morgenthau,
World-Politics in the Mid-Twentieth Century
Robert Strau.z-Hupe, U. S. Foreign Policy and the Balance of Power
N. S. Timasheff,
The Strength and Weakness of the Soviet Union
Hans Kohn, Yves Simon, Eric Voegelin, Luigi Sturzo,
Romanticism and the Rise of German Nationalism
The	Secret Sources of the Racist Ideology
The	Formation of the Marxian Revolutionary Idea
The	Philosophic Background of Christian Democracy
AMERICAN
CIVILIZATION
RELIGIOUS APPROACHES TO MODERN SOCIETY
Aaron I. Abell,
Origins of Catholic Social Reform in the United States
I. M. Bochenski,
On Soviet Philosophy
Robert B. Dishman,
Mr. Justice White and the Rule of Reason
Jean Danielou, Marxist History and Sacred History
Peter F. Drucker,
A Key to American Politics: Calhoun’s Pluralism
Otto Karrer,	Newman and the Spiritual Crisis of the Occident
Thomas T. McAvoy,
The Catholic Minority in American Culture
Jacques Maritain, The Person and the Common Good
Robert McCloskey,
American Conservatism and the Democratic Tradition
Frank O’Malley, The Wasteland of William Blake
John U. Nef, Clinton Rossiter, Marshall Smelser,
The University of Chicago and the World, 1929-1951
The Political Philosophy of Franklin D. Roosevelt
The Jacobin Pfirenzy: Federalism and the Menace of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity
Josef Pieper, Heinrich Rommen, Leo R. Ward,
The Social Meaning of Leisure in the Modem World
Church and State
Humanism and the Religious Question
WALTER LIPPMANN says: “I
regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.”
THE REVIEW OF POUTICS
University of Notre Dome Notre Dome, Indiana
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK
To the Editors of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my subscription to THE REVIEW OF POLITICS for........ year(s), at $4.00 per year.
Name -.......—....................................................
Street —.........-................................................
City—-------------------------- Zone....... State.................
O Check enclosed .	Q Please bill me
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 9
NOVEMBER 21, 1952
Engineers' Ball Tops USC Game Weekend
Next Friday night engineering students and their fair companions will attend the Engineers’ Ball at the Indiana Club. Dancing will last from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
The next day the dancegoers will witness the Trojan-Irish gridiron struggle. Game tickets are still available.
Accompanying the co-chairmen of the affair, Jerry Candela and Bob Wagner, will be the Misses Georgia Drake and Shirley Wagner.
Miss Drake resides in Chicago, and is a graduate of DePaul University.
Miss Wagner is attending St. Mary’s College, where she is a sophomore.
The technical men have chosen “Moment of Inertia” for the ball’s theme, with the decorations depicting a festival strain.
All of the professors from the College of Engineering have been invited to attend the dance.
Don Gels and his Campus Lettermen have been engaged to provide the melodies for the dancegoers.
MISS SHIRLEY WAGNER
. . . A Merry Weekend
MISS GEORGIA DRAKE
For the Engineers . . .
Tickets for the affair are completely sold out, with the 200 bids going for $4.50 each. Included in the price of the pasteboard is an orchid corsage, which will be distributed at the door.
The co-chairmen have been assisted in arranging the ball by Guy Prisco, publicity; Syl Schulte, program arrangements; Gene Zimpfer, tickets; Roy Strickfaden and Gene Little, decorations; Fred Dahl, room rental; Dick Weinacht, favors; Bob Munns, miscellaneous; and Bill Carson, date bureau.
University Clarifies Promise of Extra Holiday
In a statement clarifying the extra day of Christmas vacation promised by the University president after the Oklahoma victory, Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., assistant to the vicepresident in charge of academic affairs, reminded the student body that the extra holiday is “conditional” and that it would not be granted officially until after the last game Nov. 29.
According to the General Bulletin of the University, Christmas vacation would ordinarily begin after the com-
Tonight's Charity Ball Features Gels1 Music
The annual Charity Ball will be held at St. Mary’s College tonight from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Louis XIV Ballroom and the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall.
Sponsoring the annual affair is the Mission Commission of the Sodality of Our Lady of Mary at the College.
General chairman for the dance is Miss Mary Cay Jordan — who, with her date, will lead the Grand March. This is the first year that a march will be held at the annual affair.
A “Snowball” theme has been chosen, and following it the ballrooms will be decorated in a white motif.
Rhythm for the ball will be supplied by Don Gels and his Lettermen in both of the rooms. The orchestra will be divided into two groups in order to do this.
Proceeds from the sale of tickets, which are secured by the girls, will be distributed to needy families by the Mission Commission of the Sodality.
Assisting Miss Jordan in the organization of the dance are Joan Hoffman, tickets; Madeleva Millar, refreshments; Mary Margaret Miller, bids; and Mary White, music and publicity.
Dress for the ball is semi-formal.
pletion of the last morning class on Saturday, Dec. 20, or at 12:20 pjn.
Should the conditions be fulfilled, the start of the vacation period will, be moved ahead one full day to noon or 12:20 p.m. Friday, Dec. 19, after the completion of the 11:30 class.
Father Lochner stressed that the additional holiday will not be official until a bulletin is issued by the Office of Academic Affairs. If the ‘ extra day is granted, the bulletin will be issued the first week in December.
Nov. 21, 1952
9
ACHIEVERS GATTO, AMECHE, VAN HUFFEL, WEIBEL From Platform Promises to Reality
Van Huffel's Landslide Starts Ball Rolling For Dances, Trip, Spring Retreat, Picnic
Landslides appear to be the vogue this year in presidential elections.
President-elect Eisenhower won by the largest majority in the history of our country, and Harold “Mike” Van Huffel swept into the freshman class presidency with a comfortable margin of 112 votes.
Van Huffel, a resident of Breen-Phillips Hall, hails from Warren, Ohio, and is enrolled in the new business administrators course in the College of Commerce.
He first entered as an independent candidate but Jerry Gatto, DonAmeche, Jr., and Joe Weibel managed to convince Van Huffel of the advisability of forming a party ticket. Thus the Achiever’s party was born and all four candidates rolled on to decisive victories on Nov. 11 in the elections held under the auspices of the Blue Circle.
Gatto resides in Zahm Hall and claims Chicago as his home town, while Ameche and Weibel claim St. Edward’s as their Notre Dame base of operations — with New York and Akron, respectively, as their homes.
All four elected officers were active in high school affairs, and more especially in student government.
Reaffirming his pre-election statement of working to carry out the
planks of his platform, Van Huffel feels that this year’s Freshman class has a chance to be the largest in achievements as well as in numbers in the history of Notre Dame.
Farley’s victory in the decoration contest is the first point in proof of this fact. He backs up his belief by stating, “This class isn’t going to be run by four fellows, ’but by the entire Freshman class. We are open for suggestions at all times.” ■
The first matter on the agenda of the Achiever party is to rectify some evident flaws in the present system of allotting St. Mary’s mixer tickets to freshmen living in Sophomore halls. “In our new distribution system,” Van Huffel said," “the-"freshmen in Sophomore halls will receive their fair share of dance tickets.”
Monday night’s Student Senate meeting was the scene of a discussion between the present senators and Van Huffel concerning future plans of the Freshman class. Procedure of operation in Notre Dame student government was explained, the expectations that the school holds for the class of ’56 were disclosed, and the regulations that must be observed in any proposed project were clarified.
In the near future the four Fresh
man officers will meet with the Freshman hall presidents to discuss any problems and projects pertinent to their class. The Achiever party plans a dost contact with prexies Tom McNeill of Farley, Dick Lewis of Zahm, John Mullin of Breen-Phillips, and Al Degnan of St. Ed’s to insure full representation.
Van Huffel also plans to confer with last year’s Freshman president, Larry “Moon” Mullins, to give himself an insight on what to expect in the coming months.
Naturally the freshmen are focusing the brunt of their attention on their Spring formal, with a genuine attempt to lure a name band to the campus if the budget will allow such action. More dances for the Freshman class are being planned with the local girls’ schools. A possibility of a series of dances to be held at regular intervals after the current victory dances have ceased, is also being considered by the new officers.
The annual Freshman basketball trip, with the probable destination being Chicago Stadium, is being considered for the early part of February.
Moving from one end of the ledger to the other, the Freshman class also plans to sponsor a retreat and picnic sometime in the Spring.
A new twist has been added by Van Huffel who has stated, “Possibly, we will have a Freshman golf tourney in the Spring if enough in the class are interested.”
Therefore, the officers begin their respective terms with a wealth of high school experience and a multitude of college promises to fulfill.
Giabruno Pushes Formation Of 25-lnstrument Cadet Band
John Giabruno, secretary of the marching band and MS-3 student, is organizing a cadet band to play at the various functions of the Army ROTC. Seventeen men from the University band have already joined the new outfit.
Other musicians to fill the 25-man complement will be drawn from the cadet ranks. The group will drill every Thursday afternoon during the regular drill period.
In other Army ROTC activities, Cadet Club President Gene Gribble is now in full operation. Plans are being discussed for the Military Ball next January, and a Christmas party for the cadets is also under consideration.
Emphasis is being placed on the club’s sports program. Teams in basketball and softball will be organized on a company basis at a later date.
10
The Scholastic
'Love's Labour's Lost' On Campus Dec. 2-3
An evening of hilarious laughter is promised to all Notre Dame students when, on Dec. 2 and 3, Players Incorporated, the Catholic University repertory theatre group, invades Washington Hall for three performances of the Shakespearean farce, Love's Labour's Lost.
While general admission to the play has been set at $1, students may see the show for 50 cents and their ID cards. Tickets will be on sale at the Washington Hall box office from 11:30 a.m. to .1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. daily Nov. 24 through Dec. 2, or as long as the supply lasts.
Jn this comedy the Bard of Avon satirizes the strongest of all human emotions, love.
It all starts when Henry, King of Navarre, and his courtiers — Berowne, Longaville, and Dumain — swear not to look upon the face of a woman for three years; then proceed to fall madly in love. The King is smitten by the Princess of France, while his courtiers each fall for one of her three ladies-in-
THE PRINCESS AND THE KING
Two Performances, Five Romances
waiting. Each strives to keep his amorous adventures a secret, but they all discover each other while simultaneously rehearsing sentimental verses in the .park.
Now working in conjunction, the fretful foursome devise a series of sidesplitting schemes to capture the love of the ladies. They are discovered, however, by the Princess’ courtier, Boyet, who reports them to his fistress. The farcical intrigues which ensue are guaranteed to keep the audience rolling in the aisles for the remainder of the per-
Frosh Dan O'Malley Will Brave Icy Waters Of St. Mary's Lake Thanksgiving Morn on Bet
By HENRY O’BRIEN
At 11:30 Thanksgiving morn, Daniel Patrick O’Malley will plunge into the icy waters of St. Mary’s Lake. On a gentleman’s wager, Dan, Notre Dame’s chief candidate for polar bear of the year, undertook the dare of swimming the lake before Dec. 6. The date chosen for this feat of endurance was Nov. 27.
Chilly water and late season swimming hold no apprehensions for Californian Dan. For the paltry sum of five dollars he traversed the currents of the Merced River in Yosemite National Park. While this is no mean feat
Tomorrow Is Deadline For Navy Applications
The Navy has announced that tomorrow is the deadline for receipt of applications for its college training program, the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
The seventh series of competitive examinations since the program’s beginning will be held on Dec. 13, 1952, at test centers established throughout the nation. Only those who have submitted their applications prior to the deadline date will be allowed to take the exams.
About 2,000 students will be selected for entry into the NROTC program this year. Successful candidates will be appointed Midshipmen, USNR, and will have their tuition, books and normal fees paid for by the government while working for bachelor degrees. In addition, they will receive pay at the rate of ?600 a year for the four-year period and will be provided the required uniforms for use while on cruises and during drill periods.
The Navy has NROTC units at 52 universities and colleges throughout the nation. Those selected for the program will be assigned to one of these units.
Applications can be obtained at the Department of Testing and Guidance or at the Navy Recruiting Station in South Bend. Completed applications must be sent to the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, New Jersey.
formance.
As if the four romances aren’t enough, Shakespeare parodies the loves of the noblemen with that of Costard, a clown, for Jaquenetta, a country wench, and this affair lends some exhilarating low comedy to the play.
in itself, Dan was quick to point out that the swim was accomplished in the middle of January with a negligible amount of clothing. He also speaks of the drifts of snow on. both banks of the river.
In the relatively cold ocean off northern California, Daniel has spent many a pleasurable hour spear fishing, or skin-diving as the sport is known there. This love of the water seems to run in the family, since Dan’s only brother, Pat, is National Spear Fishing Champion.
An 18-year-old Freshman engineer, Dan lists his home address as San Mateo. His summer interests are southern California and surveying. On campus Dan may be found delivering the morning and afternoon newspapers to the Freshman halls or working in the cafeteria. He played end for St. Ed’s interhall team.
In preparation for the Thanksgiving Day swim, Dan took a dip Nov. •?. Covered from head to toe v.ith a half inch of axle grease and equipped with a pair of fins, he swam the length of St. Mary’s Lake. Watching their charge carefully from a rowboat were his . trainers Terry Noll and Gene Blatt.
Next Thursday comes the real test. Will Dan survive the elements and fin
ish the course? If he does, will he try the Channel next summer? Let it be here stated there must be an easier way of getting to St. Mary’s.
DAN O’MALLEY
Plus a Half-Inch of Axle Grease
Nov. 21, 1952
11
Fr. Sheedy, Armstrong Open Religion Forum; The Catholic Priesthood' Next Week's Topic
The Religion Forum series began yesterday with a talk on “Marriage and Courtship.” Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, spoke about the nature, purpose, and qualities of Christian marriage from the viewpoint of Catholic doctrine, while the second speaker, Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, spoke on the subject from the practical point of view.
Father Sheedy holds a Doctorate in Sacred Theology.
The audience participated with the speakers in an informal discussion of the topic upon the completion of the regular program.
Second Lecture Tuesday
Tlie second in the series of four forums will be held next Tuesday. Topic of the program will be “The Catholic Priesthood.” Conducting this discussion will be Rev. Bernard I. Mul-lahy, C.S.C., Rt. Rev. John S. Sabo, and Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C.
Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy at present holds the position as Head of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame and is now acting as Assistant Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the Fort Wayne diocese.
Father Mullahy did graduate work in philosophy and theology in the Gregorian University in Rome and received his doctorate in philosophy at Laval University in Quebec. To obtain his doctor’s degree, he wrote a thesis on the relationship of science and faith. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1939.
Father Mullahy, well known for his accurate analysis and presentation of a question, will treat of the Catholic priesthood in general and the fundamental aspects of the Catholic priesthood.
Msgr. Sabo on Secular Priesthood
The second speaker, Rt. Rev. Monsignor John S. Sabo, is pastor of Our Lady of Hungary Church and dean of the South Bend Deanery. Monsignor Sabo will treat of the secular, or what is often entitled the diocesan, priesthood.
The third member of this panel will be Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., who is an assistant prefect of religion at the University and is pastor of the Sacred Heart parish at Notre Dame. Father Barry was one of the better-known chaplains of the Fifth Army in Europe during the last World War.
Previous to holding the position as chaplain of the Fifth Army, Father
Barry held the positions of assistant at St. Joseph’s parish and director of the C.Y.O. in South Bend. Upon returning from Europe at the end of the war, he was given the position of Prefect of Discipline and, later, Assistant Vocational Director.
Father Barry’s talk will deal with the religious priesthood and the tasks
REV. BERNARD MULLAHY, C.S.C.
Life as a Priest
involved with the priest.
These forums are designed by the Department of Religion, “to serve as an educational service for all the students. They are intended to give Notre Dame students a clear understanding and appreciation of the nature and importance of the four vocations in life.”
In correction of a previous article published in the Scholastic, the weekly religious Forums are open to all, both graduate and undergraduate students, who wish to attend.
SCHOLASTIC TAKES A HOLIDAY
Because of the Thanksgiving holiday there will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next Friday, Nov. 28. The 52-page “Football Review” will be published Dec. 5.
The next regular news issue of the SCHOLASTIC will appear Dec. 12.
Civil Service Announces Examinations For Engineers
The U. S. Civil Service Commission has announced examinations for filling Engineer and Engineer Trainee positions in the Bureau of Reclamation in the West and Midwest. Salaries for Engineers are $3,410 and $4,205 a year, and for Engineer Trainees, $2,950 and $3,175 a year.
The Engineer Trainee examination is of special interest to sophomore and junior college students, as it is open to persons who have completed or expect to complete by June 30, 1953, one-half or three-fourths of a college course in engineering. Applicants must also take a written test. Applicants for the Engineering examination will be rated on the basis of their education or experience only.
Further information and application forms may be obtained at most first and second-class post offices or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. Applications for Engineer Trainee will be accepted until December 2, 1952, and for Engineer until further notice, by the Executive Secretary, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo.
Rubens', Murillo's Art In Wightman Exhibit
Masterpieces by Rubens and Murillo are among 12 outstanding 16th and 17th century paintings which will be on exhibition at the Wightman Art Gallery here until Dec. 31, it was announced recently by Doctor Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the Notre Dame gallery.
One of the most important loan exhibitions held at Notre Dame in recent years, the collection includes the only extant portrait of the infamous Lucrezia Borgia painted from life.
Ten of the paintings are from the private family collection of John F. Cuneo, president of the Cuneo Press, Inc., Chicago. One was lent by Richard E. Berlin of New York, former president of Hearst Magazines, Inc. The 12th painting is being loaned to the Notre Dame gallery by an anonymous collector. “The current exhibition is a recognition of the value and interest of the permanent collection of the Wightman Gallery,” Dr. Goldblatt indicated.
The Rubens painting, a part of the Cuneo collection, depicts the Mother of Christ, Saint John and the holy women weeping over the body of the Saviour after it had been taken down from the cross. It was painted by Rubens in
The Scholastic
12
1614 and is considered an excellent example of the Flemish school of art.
The familiar “Immaculate Conception,” a 17th century work of Bartolome Estaban Murillo, typical of the Spanish school, is also a part of the Cuneo collection. Other works included in the Cuneo group include three paintings by Gianpietrino, a 16th century pupil of Leonardo da Vinci; two paintings by the Roman artist Sassoferrato; one by Bugiardini, an assistant to Michelangelo; and representative works of Inno-cenzo da Imola and Giovanni Mansueti.
The “Madonna and Child with the Flowers,” by the 16th century Italian artist, Bernardino de Conti, is Mr. Berlin’s contribution to the current exhibition. An anonymous collector has permitted Notre Dame to display the portrait of Lucrezia Borgia by Bartolommeo Veneto. This painting has been identified by Dr. Goldblatt as the only known picture of the spectacular Renaissance Duchess of Ferrara which was painted from life. Two other oil portraits, one in Ferrara, Italy, and the other in Nimes, France, have been declared copies by art experts.
Supreme Grand Knight Speaks Here Nov. 30
Judge John A. Swift, Supreme Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus in the U. S., will speak at a Communion breakfast sponsored by the local council 1477 of the K. of C. at 10 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 30, in the Palais Royale.
The speaker will be introduced by Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame.
Tickets for the breakfast, which will follow a High Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 8 a.m., are sold only to K. of C. members in each hall by hall representatives. Every council in Indiana has been invited to the breakfast.
At a meeting in the council chambers last Monday evening, Father John Kane, prefect in Dillon Hall, addressed the knights and congratulated them on their work — especially for the Bengal missions. Father Kane also stressed the importance of the spiritual side of the Knights’ activities.
Herodotians Meet Tuesday
Members of the Herodotians have announced that this year’s activities will begin with a dinner* meeting at the Ramble Inn Tuesday.
The organization is composed mainly of students majoring in history at Notre Dame. Dr. Smelser will be the guest speaker at the dinner, and will deliver a talk on “The Political Tensions of the Federalist Period.”
'It's All Over But the Cleanup Job' For Crew That Discards Refuse After ND Home Games
Some would measure the thrills of a Notre Dame football game by the score, or the roar of the crowd. But members of the Stadium maintenance crew, who seldom get to see the Fighting Irish perform, gauge the excitement by the amount of refuse they find in the stands “the morning after.”
According to Joe Dierickx, caretaker at the Notre Dame Stadium for 21 years, about four tons of trash litter the stands after a capacity crowd of -57,000 fans heads for home. The biggest haul of four and a half tons was removed from the Stadium after the 19-51 Notre Dame-Purdue game, Dier-ickx says. Included in the sweepings are confetti, shredded newspapers, wilted chrysanthemums, pennants and even an occasional hat, coat, or blanket.
Very few programs are found in the debris since most of the fans keep them as souvenirs and surprisingly little money turns up. Any valuables found are turned into the athletic office and most of them are claimed by their owners — sometimes months after the game.
On the morning after a game, a crew of 20 descends on the 26 miles of deserted stadium seats which must be cleaned. It takes ten days of good weather to complete the job. The crew starts to work in the top rows, 4-5 feet above the field. The Stadium crew emphasizes that the cleanest spot in the stands is the section reserved for the Notre Dame student body — a phenomenon not easily explained.
Once the sweeping operation is completed, there are usually several broken seats to be repaired. The number depends on the enthusiasm of the fans who insist on jumping on the benches during the more thrilling plays on the gridiron. A dozen broken seats is the barometer of an exciting, hard-fought contest.
The final phase of the clean-up operation is the gridiron itself. Dierickx points out that the goal posts in the Notre Dame Stadium have never* been pulled down in post-game celebrations. Eager fans have often attempted to haul away part of the uprights as souvenirs, as they did after Notre Dame’s recent victory over Oklahoma, but the poles are set in concrete four-and-one-half feet deep and have withstood every assault.
A heavy snowfall prior to a football game multiplies the work of Joe Dierickx and his men. On the morning of
the Southern California game in 1949, Dierickx drafted 75 local citizens to help his crew remove six inches of snow from the playing field and the stadium seats.
“That’s happened only four times in 20 years,” Dierickx says, “but when it does, we’re really snowed under with work!”
Vetville Citizenry Elects Steve Hauser as Mayor
Vetville’s adult residents, both husbands and wives, elected Steve Hauser the new mayor of Vetville by a large majority last Thursday and Friday. The results of the election were made known at a pot luck supper in the Vet Rec Hall on Sunday evening.
A seven-man council, composed of one man from each of Vetville’s six wards and one councilman-at-large, was also voted into office. The new councilmen are: Tony Lambert, Ward 1; Joe McCoy, Ward 2; Jerry Houseman, Ward 3; Bob Simmons, Ward 4; Gene Jaeger, Ward 5; Roger Lawrence, Ward 6; and Dick DeSantis, councilman-at-large.
Mayor Hauser and his council will assume control of the community affairs some time in the early part of December. Hauser will replace Thomas J. Bergan, who has served as mayor of Vetville during this semester.
Following the pot luck supper a square dance was held. It was sponsored hy the Christian Family Movement of the community.	.
STEVE HAUSER
Vetville’s Choice by a Landslide.
Nov. 21, 1952
13
Thespian Group Gives 'The Cockfail Party' Thursday; Endeavor Attracts Wide Interest
With the 8:30 curtain on Thursday evening will come the culmination of a few weeks’ work, and a brand new venture by the thespians at Notre Dame. At that time the University Theatre will present the opening performance of T. S- Eliot’s The Cocktail Party; directed by Michael Casey with Jim Nichols, Nancy Driscoll, and Charles Doherty playing the leads.
Staging this play will be somewhat of a moment of importance in amateur theatre circles, for it is probably the first time in the United States that a non-professional group has undertaken the perplexing piece.
The story concerns: Edward and Lavina Chamberlayne, played by Nichols and Miss Driscoll; their discovery that they do not love each other; and their
ELEANOR KASKEY
A Highly intellectual Comedy
eventual realization of what they must do to lead their lives well. They are brought to this realization by Sir Henry Harcourt-Reilly, the psychiatrist, played by Doherty.
Much has been said of this play and its controversial meanings, but most critics agree that it is one of the best works of our time. In many respects, and particularly with regard to the theme, it can be considered a Catholic play.
Father Walsh, the director of dramatics at Marquette University, who intends to produce the play there in the near future, has said “T. S. Eliot’s play, The Cocktail Party, is best understood by Catholics because it pre
sents the Catholic viewpoint toward the process of moral rejuvenation.”
The sets were designed by Dick Byrnes, a junior in fine arts, and John Tumpane is the technical director.
There will be two sets. On the modernistic side will be the drawing room of the Chamberlaynes’ London flat. The psychiatrist’s consultation room will be the other set constructed by Byrnes and his crew.
Charles Kindsvatter is the stage manager, and Marion Leszczynski will handle the props. There will be five performances, beginning on Thanksgiving evening and running through the following Sunday, with a 2:30 matinee Sunday afternoon.
This play, a highly intellectual comedy, is expected to be popular among college students because of its departure from the ordinary shows attempted by university groups and because of its thought-provoking ideas.
Already, the Notre Dame production has received mention on the New York Times theatre page.
Eleanor Kaskey and Jack McDermott have the important parts of Celia Coplestone and Peter Quilpe. Jean Richard will be Julia Shuttlethwaite. The rest of the cast are: William Kennedy, Julia Karras, Richard Kercken, and Robert Braun.
International Debating Group Sets 'War Decision' Lecture
The third in a current series of lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations will be given on Wednesday, Dec. 3, in room 103 Law Building.
Professor William O. Shanahan will speak on “The Command Decisions of World War II” at this lecture, which begins at 8 p.m.
Professor Shanahan will discuss not only those decisions made by the Allies, but also those made by the Axis. He will attempt to show how certain decisions won the war, but in turn created many of the peace problems which are very real.
The key decisions to be discussed are Hitler’s orders to hold the most advanced line in Russia, the Allied decision for the strategic bombing of Germany, the land offensive in the Fall of 1944, and the political and military problems in the Spring of 1945.
CHARLES DOHERTY ‘New York Times’ Takes Note
Student Center Cake Contest Opens Today
Ticket sales in the bake goods contest began today as the first part of ■the fund raising campaign for the proposed Student Center. Tickets are priced at 25c or five for $1.00.
Vetville, in order- to promote donations, has submitted the following two-proposal plan: Ten ticket stubs will be drawn and those holding the winning tickets will receive, weekly, until the end of May, 1953, a homemade cake through the, courtesy of the wives of Vetville.
The second part of the plan calls for the three halls selling the most tickets per man to divide proportionately among themselves 125 homemade delicacies on any specific night.
The site for the new Student Center will be the Science Museum.
The completed interior of the building will house a large lounge area which can be converted into a ballroom for club and campus dances; a television room; a game room(s); projection room and an acoustic tiled insulated speech and debate room.
The building will contain offices for the Student Senate, Blue Circle, YCS, NFCCS and also Father Norton’s office.
Architects, under the direction of Prof. Frank Montana, are working on the interior design. Prizes totalling $100 are being offered for the best plans submitted. Mrs. Dorothy Draper, interior decorator for the White House and the Morris Inn, has graciously donated her services for the Student Center building.
14
The Scholastic
Merck Offers Natural Science Fellowships
The National Research Council, Washington, D. C., has announced the availability of the Merck Senioi- Postdoctoral , Fellowships in the Natural Sciences foi- 1953-54.
All fields of physics, chemistry, and biology, plus the preclinical medical sciences, are open to applicants for Merck Fellowships. Applications filed with the Council must be postmarked on or before Dec. 10, 1952.
These Fellowships carry stipends of $6,000 and traveling expenses, and are offered to citizens of the United States with a Ph.D. equivalent in physics, chemistry, or biology. Candidates must also have at least three years of postdoctoral professional experience in their major field, only one of which may have been fellowship work.
The program is supported by Merck & Co., Inc., manufacturing chemists of Rahway, N. J., and administered by the National Research Council.
The purpose of the Merck Senior Fellowships, according to the Research Council announcement, is to give “advanced education, training, and development to individuals who have demonstrated marked ability in research in the physical, chemical, or biological sciences and who wish to broaden their fields • of investigational activity by acquiring some familiarity with another area.”
Alumni Association Directors Announce Gifts In Excess of $700,000 Uris Year by Alumni
Notre Dame alumni will have contributed more than $700,000 to their alma mater during 1952, it was announced recently at the Fall meeting of the directors of the University’s national Alumni Association on the campus.
Harvey Foster, of El Paso, Texas, alumni president, revealed that 5,367 graduates had contributed a total of $699,101.26 to the University -with more than six weeks remaining in the year. The total amount, which includes one large capital gift, is slightly greater than the total of alumni contributions on the same date a year ago, Foster said. “Alumni of Notre Dame continue to respond magnificently to the needs of the University,” Foster declared. “Without the generosity of Notre Dame’s alumni and friends, the University’s progress could not be maintained. The tuition of its 5,100 students does not begin to meet the University’s $10,000,000 annual budget, let alone provide for future expansion,” Foster added.
The Directors also reviewed the progress of Notre Dame alumni clubs from coast-to-coast. James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Alumni Association, reported that Notre Dame’s 124 alumni clubs “have nearly doubled in number since 1932 and 30 new clubs have been activated in the past ten years.”
The clubs’ work ranges from the sponsorship of spiritual activities such as Notre Dame Communion Sunday, which will be observed on Dec. 7, to the awarding of scholarships to worthy students. Social highlight of the year is the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in April, with University officials and representatives speaking at dinners in more than 75 cities.
William R. Dooley, placement direc-toi- at Notre Dame, reported to the alumni directors that the number of employers interviewing students on the campus is 50 per cent greater this year. Some 183 business and industrial organizations regularly send representatives to the campus to conduct student interviews, Dooley said.
The Alumni Board also heard committee reports on enrollment, job counseling and citizenship. It also reviewed the operation of The Alumnus whose columns are filled with news of Notre Dame’s 22,000 graduates. The Board recommended that the 50 class secretaries be convened on the campus for theii- second meeting in June, 1953.
Installation of new directors and election of new officers will be the order of business when the Board meets again in January. Serving with Foster as vice-presidents are: Richard J- Nash, Chicago; Dr. Mathew Weis, St. Louis; and William C. Schmitt, Portland, Ore.
POGO SPEAKS FOR SENIORS AT MACKLIN FIELD
“WE ARE STOPPING THE SPARTANS” Fumbles Ruined Pogo’s Predictions
ENROUTE TO EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN A few Hours Later, Heartbreak
Nov. 21, 1952
15
Sportsman Chemist Dr. Joel H. Hildebrand
Currently Lecturing on Notre Dame Campus
By BOB GORMAN
The talk was of solvents, crystallization, slope of solubility curves, and hydrocarbons, but he said, “Come in. Nothing secret here — we don’t know enough to have any secrets.”
Such a remark is typical of this man who has won wide renown as an excellent chemist, Dr. Joel H. Hildebrand, professor emeritus of chemistry at the University of California. He is currently delivering a group of lectures under the auspices of the P. C. Reilly Series here at Notre Dame.
Although Dr. Hildebrand is the author of several chemistry texts and pamphlets, he is most proud of a work entitled Camp Catering, in which he and his daughter set forth the delightful possibilities of meals on the open trail.
If experience has anything to do with it, no one should be better qualified to write such a book, for Dr. Hildebrand is an outdoorsman of some repute, and at present is the president of the Sierra Club, a mountaineering organization in California. His oldest son was only three years old when he was set on a burro for his first mountain trip. Evi-
DR. JOEL H. HILDEBRAND Chemistry and Camping
dently the venture proved successful for his two sons and one daughter all share his enthusiasm for excursions into the mountains.
When a professor shows a packer how to throw a hitch in order to strap
a pack on a burro, that is something akin to an Oklahoman trying to teach an Irishman how to play football, but Dr. Hildebrand has done just that (the former, that is!)
His demonstration to a packer of the one-man diamond hitch made quite an impression on one mountain journey. A California co-ed who had been a member of the camping party became engaged a few weeks later, and faithfully proclaimed that she had gotten her man with “Dr. Joel’s one-man hitch.”
Ox-Slaughtering Is Out
On the eve of the annual California-Stanford football game, Dr. Hildebrand delivers a chemistry lecture to the students of California that is without a doubt one of the best attended lectures in the annals of college history. Carefully explaining to his audience the old pagan custom of foretelling the outcome of battle by means of zoology, for example slaughtering an ox to find an omen of good or bad fortune by the color of its liver, Dr. Hildebrand concludes that this is far too messy a process and that he will do the same thing in a much neater way by means of chemistry.
Then follows a manipulation of chemical processes in which the blue and gold colors of California inevitably overcome the red of Stanford. The performance is climaxed by a contrast between a sputtering, weak red flame and a vigorous blue and gold flame which suddenly billows out to fill the entire stage, much to the delight of the somewhat partisan audience.
Old California grads have told Dr. Hildebrand that this blue and gold flame experiment is the only thing he ever taught them that they remembered — to which he quips, “It’s nice to be remembered for something.”
Skiing Came at 40
Having taken a brief fling at fresh- , man football, and having been a stroker on the varsity crew during his undergraduate days at Pennsylvania, Dr. Hildebrand is no stranger to the world of sports. Perhaps his most notable achievement in this sphere has been in skiing, which he learned after the age of forty. He became so proficient in the sport that he was manager of the United States Olympic skiing team in 1936.	.....
Like mountaineering, skiing has also become a family affair. His two sons
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE IN SPRING
The Marriage Institute, sponsored every year by the Department of Religion, will be presented as usual next Spring, it was announced by Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., director of the institute.
Father Lochner pointed out that the current series of lectures on States of Life, which started this week, is not intended to replace the Marriage Institute lectures, and has no direct connection with them.
have both been captains of University of California ski teams. The Doctor claims that he must have chosen his ancestors well because he is still skiing after the age of seventy, and maintains that, “You have no idea how much more fun it is now than it was 30 years ago.”
Holds the DSM
To all these achievements add a distinguished military career that includes being commander of the United States Army gas school in France during World War I, reception of the Distinguished Service Medal, and service as a scientific liaison officer at the American embassy in London during the second World War, and it is fairly evident that here is a “man among men.”
Illustrative of the manner in which brilliant achievement in many fields, humility, and humor can be combined in one individual is Dr. Hildebrand’s choice of what he considers the very best lecture introduction ever given him.
Introducing him to an assembly of students, the President of the University of California did not rave about his many achievements and rewards and books, but merely said, “I present to you Dr. Joel H. Hildebrand, the only full professor at California to make a successful plunge from the high diving-board of our University pool.
Army ROTC Plans Review, Drill Team Exhibition Dec. 4
The Army ROTC unit at Notre Dame will celebrate for the first time on Dec. 4, the anniversary of the' program’s establishment .by Congress. The ceremony will consist of a review of the cadet corps and an exhibition by the drill team. _ It is- intended that this observance become an annual affair.
16
The Scholastic
KM<
DeCrick, Huddleston Get Photo Concession
Seniors Bill DeCrick and Bob Huddleston were awarded the Notre Dame ' photography concession at the Student Senate meeting on Monday, Nov. 17.
A special committee was named by the Senate to investigate the possibility of conducting different college dances on alternate years. This investigation resulted from petitions to the Senate for dances to be held Feb. 6 by both the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science.
It was suggested, however, that one of the colleges be awarded that date to conduct its dance this year. This is to be decided at a later date, and following a report of the committee set up to investigate the problem.
The question of obtaining permanent decorations for the Navy Drill Hall in order to lower the various dance expenditures was then discussed. A bid proposing this decorating at the cost of approximately $4,300 was rejected by the Senate, and the matter was referred to the Executive Cabinet.
The question of establishing new library hours on Sunday in order to offer more convenient research for graduate students was discussed. Upon the suggestion of Father Norton, Senate Moderator, the matter was shelved for later discussion with Father Moore.
Mention was made of a plan to have Christmas trees in various halls and one bigger tree to be decorated on the campus. The Senate also discussed the possibility of conducting a clothes campaign in cooperation with St. Vincent de Paul Society to assist the needy of South Bend.
Proposals to remedy the problem created by peddling of hamburgers in campus halls were made, and the question was postponed until a later’ date.
A report on the Charity Chest ended the meeting.
PUBLISH STUDENT DIRECTORY
The Student Directory, which lists the names and addresses, both local and home, of all students and faculty members will be ready for distribution about Dec. 1.
Now in press, the Directory will go on sale at the Bookstore at 50^ per copy. Copy price has been raised from 25 to 50$ because of greatly increased printing costs.
KC Plans March 10 Opening For Bengals; Annual Fights May Draw Telecast of Finals
With plans nearing completion, the word for the 1953 Bengal Bouts at Notre Dame is “full speed ahead.”
Stratagem has been laid by a committee of six under the leadership of George McCourt, bout promoter, and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., faculty adviser, to make the 22nd annual Bengal Bouts the biggest and best in the history of the event.
The Bengals, proceeds of which go to the Bengal Missions in Pakistan, are sponsored by the Knights of Columbus.
The 1953 fights will feature eight divisions of fighting, and will follow intercollegiate boxing rules. Preliminary matches are scheduled for March 10, 11, and 12, semifinal rounds will be fought March 14, and the championship battles are planned for Tuesday, March 17, the feast day of St. Patrick. All will be evening bouts.
The eight divisions of fighting will include the following: 130, 137, 147, 155, 160, 167, 177 lb. and the heavyweight division.
May Telecast Finals
Plans are underway for a telecast of the finals on St. Patrick’s Day, but nothing as yet is definite. Last year’s final bouts were carried by television station WGN-TV of Chicago. The fights, however, will definitely be carried by local radio stations as well as WNDU.
In keeping with the tradition of presenting famous fight personalities on the final card, the fight committee has acquired as honorary referee a well-known pugilist to “break the clinches” in the Bengal headliner on St. Patrick’s Day. The celebrity’s name is not as yet ready for publication, but McCourt has announced that he will render his services free of charge.
Bengal Bouts of the past have been honored with appearances by such great fighters as Rocky Marciano, Tony Zale, Barney Ross and others, and will again this year feature several noted personalities.
Fan Clubs, Too
Several innovations have been added in an effort to top last year’s booming success, the biggest to date. Capitalizing on the mass enthusiasm predominating among the halls this year, attempts to sponsor fighters from each hall are being made. This will promote the formation of fan clubs and hall boosters, which would lend spirit and
increase student interest in the annual fights.
With champs from previous years still around, fight fans can look forward to polished and highly competitive boxing this year. Several talented fighters have been uncovered in the
GEORGE McCOURT
Full Speed Ahead Till St. Patrick’s Day
Bengal ring in the last few years, one of whom has entered professional boxing. Much of this talent will participate this year.
The Bengal Bouts are an annual affair to raise funds to help support the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, Pakistan. All the work of the various committees is done for charity, and the net proceeds from the bouts are donated to the Bengal Missions. The Knights of Columbus supply boxing equipment for- the fighters, and student workers handle the arena and seating facilities. The first Bengal Bouts were fought 30 years ago.
Both season and student tickets will go on sale around March 1.	•
Promoter for the 1953 Bengals is George McCourt, a 21-year-old senior commerce man from Grand Rapids, Mich., whose major is domestic marketing. McCourt is assuming his position with past experience on Bengal Bout committees.
Committee chairmen for the fights are William Metzel, ticket committee; Joe David, program committee; Ed Broderick, patron committee; Bob Hull, concessions committee; and Lee Tavis and Bob Rust, co-chairmen of the publicity committee.
Nov. 21, 1952
17

The ISLAND of SAND
By JOSEPH GORES
Emmet Wilson blinked open his eyes, grunted, and rolled over on his stomach. It was dawn. First the darkness to the east gradually lightened, and objects began to slowly form themselves in the gloom, until they ceased to be just shapeless patches of grey against the night. Out across the void of the ocean, about five miles away, appeared the shape of another island. The sun suddenly rose, clearing the horizon in a few swift moments, and then settled blindingly in the waves, until the reflection hurt Emmet’s eyes, and he looked away, across his own island. Directly above him rose three huge cocoanut palms; dark brown trunks with big cracks in their smooth shell of bark, surmounted by great, shiny green fronds, startling against the brilliant blue sky. Almost beside him, from under a large boulder, trickled a stream of fresh water. Around the spring grew sparse patches of coarse grass. Down on the southern tip of the island was a small rookery of gulls—a few hurried nests, some of them with white, thick-shelled eggs in them. And that was all; completely all. The rest was sand. Emmet gritted it beneath his elbow, and dug his hand into it, and trickled it between his fingers.
“Lord,” said Emmet Wilson. It was the third day.
* * *
He rose and shook the sand from his clothes, and emptied it from his shoes. He was a rather cultured man, and had been quite wealthy until the shipwreck, so he clung to his clothes as outward signs of his position. They were something concrete, something tangible in this dead world of desolation. The shoes were continually full of sand, and made walking difficult and uncomfortable, but he had once read that as long as the White man has shoes he is superior to the native. Of course there were no natives on his island, in fact there were no other human beings at all, but . . . •well . . . there was always that big island, five miles away. Emmet felt there must be people on it, for it was large enough to have a volcanic mountain rising from the dense jungle which covered it. If only he could contact someone there, everything would be right again. He could have the natives sail him to an island where the pearl schooners touched, and then he could get back to the
13
states. But Emmet could not swim, and he had no boat.
* * *
A gull sailed over his head, screaming raucously. It reminded him that he hadn’t eaten since yesterday, when he had picked up a cocoanut which had fallen from one of the trees, and had smashed it against the boulder until it broke. Of course all the milk had been lost, but he had been able to scrape most of the meat out with a sharp rock. He searched about for another fallen nut, but there was none. He tried to climb one of the trees, but slid to the ground after-getting about eight feet, with his precious shirt torn and arms and face badly scratched. Discouraged, he walked through the loose sand toward the beach, sinking ankle-deep at every step. Even through his shoes it burned his feet, so he ran until he was splashing in the shallow water on the beach, where the sands were packed firm by the incessant waves. Emmet waded on, almost enjoying the cool play of water on his calves, until he came within sight of the rookery. The birds rose in a squawking cloud as he approached. He sat down in the sand, trying to think of some way to capture one of them. Then he saw the eggs. He went over and collected two of the larger ones. He carried them carefully back down the beach to where he had
The Scholastic
dragged the half-smashed crate on which he had drifted ashore. Wood, but no matches. The thought of raw eggs was
repugnant. He must have fire. He searched about until he found two rough stones, piled up a few bits of wood from the crate, and began to strike the stones clumsily together, trying to make them
spark. Ten minutes later, knuckles bleeding, he overcame his queasy stom
ach, poked a small hole in one of the eggs, shut his eyes, and drank . . .
This was the beginning. Emmet soon learned he would not starve. There were the cocoanuts, and if not the gulls, at least their eggs. And when the tide was low, in the sand shallows which surrounded the island on three sides, were all kinds of crawly things that a patient stalk and quick grab could capture. They all tasted and looked horrible, raw, and would have turned his stomach a few weeks before. But civilization and its niceities was in the past; even his shoes and shirt were eventually discarded.
* * *
Yes, Emmet could live. But there was the sand. In the morning, as the sun rose, and just at twilight, it was beautiful. At times it looked almost luminous in the ghostly half-light of the dusk. But at night and during the day it was his enemy. Emmet was sure of that. There was no escaping the sun as it poured down on the sand. Everything was hot and dry, burning, and the sand ground into his feet as he walked, and scorched into his back if he sat down. It reflected the sun’s heat and light into his eyes and throat, until his head ’ throbbed and he felt dizzy when he moved. He tried to hollow out a place in the sand under the palms, where he could be shaded from the sun; but the sun moved, and the shadows moved, and
the sand trickled and flowed like a liquid, always yielding beneath him. The nights were no better. The sand brooded then. There was no heat, but neither was there light. When the moon was out, Emmet could see strange shadows scuttling silently across the beach, strange shadows which seemed to drift up on the sand out of the ocean itself. Of course, there was nothing there—Emmet knew that—nothing there but sand. But the shadows under the pale, weird moon . . . dancing shadows on ghostly blue sand. ... If there was no moon Emmet never left the foot of his palms. In the black all he could do was listen, and
hear the soft lap )f waves against the beach. Then would come the sharp grate of a keel in the sand, and he would leap ’ to his feet, and strain his eyes into the blackness, listening for- men and the sound of voices, for rescue. But there was none. And in the morning there was no boat, and no footprints, and no mark of a keel in the damp sand of the beach. Nothing. Only sand.
* * *
At first Emmet would often go down to the beach, and gaze at the island across those five short miles of water. What was there? Natives—perhaps even white men. And animals and birds, forests—even a mountain. Or maybe it was just a mirage, an image across the water. Perhaps there was nothing there, nothing at all—or maybe only sand. He stopped going to the shore to look for movement on the island. He stopped trying to fix his ragged shirt to one of the palms to attract attention, and he stopped trying to build a fire that he could signal with. After all, why signal to the
sand? Emmet had that on his island. The soft sand, the soothing sand, trickling between his leathery toes, or tickling his arms when he plunged them into it, vainly building his little castles of sand . . . little castles of yellow sand. . . . He stopped looking for ships, too. Ships were things of the water. They never even approached the sand. They were afraid of it. That was strange: afraid of sand. Emmet was not afraid of it, for the sand was his home. The people who lived on ships were afraid of sand. They lived their lives in houses and cities, and never saw the sand except on Sunday or on their vacations. Then they all
went to the beach. They played on the sand, and rolled in it, and covered themselves with it, and built their dreams into castles in the sand. But Emmet had all the sand here he would ever need. He leaned against his tree trunk, and trickled sand through his fingers onto his outstretched legs. Then he would reach forward and scoop it up with his arms, big scoops of it, covering his legs, burying his thighs and hips, until all he could see was sand and the tips of his toes. He could wiggle them and watch the sand shake and shift, and trickle as if it were alive. Beautiful sand.
* * *
Captain William Grey was visibly agitated. He walked back and forth across the bridge; he looked through his binoculars at the flat ocean, stretching in an unbroken line to the horizon; he gazed at the chart, and at the barometer, and at the chart again. He would pick up a pencil to plot a new tack or make a calculation; then he would lay it down. He gazed out at the ocean once more, as
if he were trying to wrest from its long, glinting swells the answer- they were seeking.
“Good morning, Captain.” She had entered the bridge quietly, as she did every morning, rousing him from his reverie.
“Oh . . . good morning, Mrs. Wilson. I thought you’d probably be up here. We aren’t far from where the Albatross made her last radio contact. In a few days we’ll know, one way or the other.’*
“How much hope is there of finding-him . . . really, I mean?” She asked the question without looking at the captain,, but gazed instead at the endless Pacific.. She had loved her husband very much,, but had borne the shock of his disap--pearance well. Only a few fine lines; around her eyes showed the strain. That was really the only object of this search —to ease her mind. Otherwise, she wondered, wouldn’t it be all silly? Emmet was still alive, of course, but . . . everything here was so huge, so barren; just sea and sky, empty air and empty-water.
* * * '
The captain had known the search was useless from the start; he had even told her so, but she had insisted. And she was paying well for the use of his boat and crew. . . . He shrugged. “If-he’s alive, we’ll find him.” He pointed to a pin on the chart. “There—that’s us. These lines are the current. It runs, west-south-west. Anything adrift would float that way.” His hand moved across the chart. “And if it kept on drifting, it’d hit these islands here. We can check them all. If he’s not there . . . well, a man adrift can only live so long.”
She looked at the chart, not really comprehending any of it. “We’ll find him. I know we’ll find him.” But he knew she was unconvinced.
The days passed. They were spent in endless hours of searching the sea with binoculars, until heads ached and eyes burned, and the crew began to sleep through their turns in the crow’s nest.
(Continued on page 31)
Nov. 21, 1952
19
THE OLD, OLD COLLEGE
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON Text by ED GIACOMINI
In the early Spring of 1843, 109 years ago, the south shore of St. Mary’s lake showed two signs of human habitation — a log chapel, which at that time had just been completed, and a pile of rough-hewn lumber and homemade yellow brick.
The timber and brick, the result of a winter’s labor by Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and seven Brothers, were to become — as soon as an architect and workmen arrived from the south — the first permanent building of the planned University of Notre Dame.
Bui, as April and May passed without the appearance of the architect and workmen who were to construct the building, the Priest and Brothers became more and more restless; unless the building was completed by fall, the development of the new University would be held up another year. June came, and still no architect or workmen. The Priest and Brothers, desperate now, decided there was only one thing to do.
They drew up plans for a small, temporary building to house students and teachers for the first winter, and inexperienced though they were in the building trades, started work on the new structure.
It was a simple, compact square building, planned to make every inch
of space count. Packed inside its two storeys were a dormitory for expected students, a dormitory for the Brothers, a refectory, a bakery, a classroom and a clothes room.
This building, known at various' times as the “Mission House” or “Old College”— the latter is the currently correct title — was completed by late August. Just after it was finished the architect and workmen arrived (they had been delayed on the trip, partly by the muddy condition of the Indiana roads) and started work on another building.
Although the Old College served its original purpose for two years, the completion of the new buildings left it vacant. It was taken over as a residence house for the Sisters of Holy Cross, who had been living in the loft over the old chapel, where they had been having considerable difficulty battling the rats, bugs, cobwebs, and fleas.
Then came a long period when the Old College was relegated to whatever purpose space was needed for at the time.
It became the college bakery for a short period. In 1881 it was taken ocer as a residence for the Lay Brothers who were in charge of the University farm.
TPE CR*uu II m	r, ’ ’	•
• SUIT S OH'-	.
□rigivm Ir isirfoto rr^ a c„ u . rQ11 ..si.
n wet THmcsiBEhCEar sisre^ or ™ .int-v u	;
FO: •»:« 7tACH!KC,EW^’'‘or ,!Ql‘ ‘	...	”
AKDINIM2 n BLCV'f HT WQV
. HOLY CROS5
Plaque on South wall of Old College.
Renovated in 1906, the building became a house of studies for teaching Brothers of Holy Cross, and in 1913 was turned into the headquarters of the Holy Cross Mission Band.
Today the Old College is the home of 20 young men who are preparing for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross under the -direction of Rev. Daniel J. O’Neil, C.S.C.
The house has been modernized some
LEFT: The Log Chapel is adjacent to the Old College. RIGHT: The LOG CHAPEL is the scene of a 6 a.m. Mass every day.
20
The Scholastic
what to serve its new purpose — an added recreation room and snack bar, an office for consultation, are the most notable changes made in its 16 large rooms.
Men living in the house are what Father O’Neil terms “belated vocations” — all had graduated from high school and most were college students by the time they decided to prepare themselves for the priesthood. They spend a one-year “break-in” period at the Old College and then enter the Congregation’s newly opened Novitiate in Jordan, Minn., where they will undergo an intensive spiritual training before returning to the campus.
These men live the regular life of Notre Dame students, wearing no distinctive clothing-, living in double rooms much like the ordinary residence hall doubles but larger than rooms in most of the halls, eating in the dining hall, and taking part in campus activities.
Like any group of Notre Dame men, they come from all over the country, from New Hampshire to California, Michigan to Louisiana. Some attended other universities before coming here; there are former students from Rockhurst College, the University of Portland, Michigan State College, the University of Southern California, a graduate student from Idaho State University, and three men from Notre Dame.
Last year’s group was composed largely of veterans; this year only two of the students are former servicemen.
But because life in the Old College is the first step toward the priesthood, it differs in some respects from ordinary student life.
These men take courses generally aimed toward their final goal. There
The Old College is a familiar landmark on the trek from Main to Social Science.
are beginners’ courses for those who have never had the necessary Latin; refresher courses for those who had. Philosophy and a few courses at Moreau are included.
The pattern of life in the Old College, too, is different from that in the halls. The students rise at 5:45 a.m. at the sound of a shaky Benedicamus Domino. At 6 they gather in chapel for morning prayer, Mass and Holy Communion. After a short thanksgiving, they find enough time to straighten out their rooms, enjoy a breakfast, and
make their first class. Classes and study consume the morning.
After lunch, the students budget their time among classes, study and recreation. Active recreation in the open is considered a “must.”
At 5 o’clock, they again gather in the chapel for spiritual reading, the rosary, and meditation. After supper, recreation is enjoyed in common, until 7:30 when study and silence take possession of the house.
At 9:30, the day is closed with night (Continued on page 33)
LEFT: Study hours are specified in the order of the day. RIGHT: The recreation room provides pop and ping pong.
Nov. 21, 1952
21
It’s All Yours:
"You haven’t directed enough derogatory remarks to St. Mary’s,” one D. C. told us. “You aren’t real Scholastic ■columnists unless you blast SMC.”
“You haven’t written many words about the lethargy of the Notre Dame students towards matters spiritual, intellectual, and physical,” one R. M. remarked to us. “What are you boys doing, trying to compete with the Chicago Tribune Book Section? You mam-l)y-pambies in the basement of Sorin are just a bunch of commies and warmongers, attempting to stir up a battle between Sorin, Walsh, and anyone else that might be interested. When you’re not doing that, you’re plugging a certain record store downtown. What’s with you guys anyhow?”
These are all good questions, gentlemen, since our field is criticism, constructive and destructive, in the general realm of your entertainment. We praise what we like; we deride that which we find dull, trite, or hypocritical. In short, gentlemen we call them as and when we see them.
At present, we find St. Mary’s temporarily above criticism; religious instruction is not our business, but entertainment is, especially when it concerns our lackadaisical student body.
Let It Snow
With the long snow-bound winter months coming up, most of us are wandering around moaning about the fact that there is only one big weekend left before entertainment dies. If we let it die, it’s our fault. There are plenty of activities possible around here on a college level, and once we grow up to that level we’ll find more to do and less time to complain.
Here is an example and a plug at the same time. How much a week do you figure that you spend on magazines? The caf. makes a nice profit every week on material brought in from the outside, but we wonder how many quarters will cross that same counter when The Juggler, your own literary magazine, comes out this month.
Now most upperclassmen will tell you that it isn’t a very hot effort. We wonder where everyone gets that opinion when only about 300 copies are sold to a student body of well over 5000. It’s a fine magazine, and could be made even better if some of those who con
tent themselves with griping about it would break down and try contributing some material for it. The students do write it you know, and the more there is to choose from, the better it will become.
Something definitely must be done about the attitude that the students can’t accomplish anything of worth around here. Remember, that team out on the football field comes from the student body, and it rose to fame on the interest of spirit that everyone put into it. Let’s pull together for once and promote a few more things in the same way. If we do, maybe the big magazines around the country will have even less cause to cast ND as a football factory.
The Top Floor
Again there is the old question, WHAT? This column is, as we have mentioned, directed to art and entertainment, so let us take another example from our own field. There is a group of students who convene daily just under the roof of the Main Building— the art department. We know that it is asking a lot, but if some day you can vacate the sack or Joers long enough to risk a climb up there to the top floor, you may be pleasantly surprised. Those fellows up under the Dome have talent, a bit of which was evidenced in the homecoming displays. They have the talent for an exhibition worthy of a university.
Of course, that “stuff” is only for the people interested in bettering themselves with higher education, but what the heck are we in college for if it isn’t for higher education. Remember, people are going to respect you when you say that you are an ND graduate, so let’s give them something to respect besides the name. Besides, if you are doing something, there is less time to get bored and less time to worry about the quality of entertainment in South Bend.
Is There a Reason?
Everyone is busy commenting upon the initiative the Student Theatre is showing by attempting T. S. Eliot’s Cocktail Party. We want to join all the others who are praising them, but we have a very big question to add. Who drew up the schedule of performances? It was an unreasonable choice. If you look closely, you will notice that
‘Cocktail’ or Thanksgiving Party?
it is appearing over Thanksgiving weekend when a great many of the students vail be away. Is the Theatre afraid to put on something so worthwhile for the benefit of the whole student body?
We wonder if it could possibly be extended to Monday night for the benefit of those who are going home for Thanksgiving.—Gerry Voit, Walt Werner, Jack Dilenschneider.
Srad SNotes
To those of you who eagerly scanned the pages of last week’s Scholastic for our now-famous column go our abject apologies. Due to circumstances beyond our control (namely a faulty memory) we were unable to meet the deadline.
The big news this week is the Thanksgiving Dance to be held in the Vet Rec Hall on Friday, Nov. 28, at 8 p.m. Those of you who attended the fabulous Halloween Dance will need no urging to come to this second big dance of the semester. The fee is again placed at the incredibly low figure of 50 cents a couple. Music will be on records and the usual refreshments will be available.
We again want to emphasize that it is the policy of the Grad Student Association to provide the best possible entertainment at the lowest possible cost, to all graduate students. These dances are one manifestation of that policy. A great many people are taking advantage of the opportunity these functions afford for spending a pleasant evening in the company of colleges from the several graduate departments of the University. If you are not, we
22
The Scholastic
sincerely feel that you are missing something of real value. Tickets and dates are available from your departmental representatives.
The graduate basketball league is now being organized by our hard-working Chairman of Athletics, Bob Shaver. Any department is eligible to enter a team. Simply elect a team captain and have him contact Shaver at Extension 212 (Biology) and your team will be placed in the schedule. Do it now!
The Graduate Student Association met last Wednesday evening and heard reports by Lou Glunz on the dance, Larry Monaco on the budget, Bob Shaver on athletics, and Ed O’Connor on lectures to be presented in the near-future. Nominations were made for officers of the association for next year. A full report will be given next week.
See you at the dance!!!
The Secretary
II MII Mike Chatter
Last Saturday was the first time that WNDU has attempted to broadcast an away football game with our own crew. We think that there is a decided advantage in this, since students broadcasting the game should know what the listening students want to hear.
The coverage was made possible by Max Adler’s, who defrayed the cost of the broadcast because, “the relations between Max Adler’s and the students at Notre Dame have always been exceptionally good, and we would like to do this as an expression of thanks to them.” The quotes are Mr. Hart’s of Max Adler’s. And he made good on it, as you probably noticed the surprising lack of commercials.
They would like to do it again if the student interest in such coverage is strong enough to warrant it. So if you liked the broadcast and want to hear more Notre Dame games away in football and basketball, drop a card saying so to the station or Max Adler’s, or drop in on them next time you are downtown and let them know you liked it.
And thanks to Mr. Hart for making this first football broadcast possible.
There are.two more departments under Tom Knott in Programming that I did not cover last week because of space limitations.
The first of these is the new News Department under Andy Hemon. There are five men under Andy in this department.
(Continued on page 31)
. . . For The Tale of ND vs. KKK
Pull up a bound volume of Scholastics and sit down, and I’ll see if I can equal Harry Truman as a historian.
There was a time when the Ku Klux Klan was very strong, and very loud in its denunciation of the Catholic Church. Pressure built up through the early 1920’s, as each Klan charge got a little more vicious, making each Notre Dame student a little more angry. When the KKK announced a parade, in full regalia, would be held in South Bend on Saturday, May 17, 1924, students decided that it was time for revenge.
On the morning of the 17th, every person who got off a train or bus carrying a suspicious looking bundle was met by a smiling young gentleman who, after ascertaining that he was a Klans-man, said “Right this way.”
“Right this way” happened to be an alley, where a few more young gentlemen from ND waited, and the Klans-man invariably left the reception committee minus his sheet.
Needless to say, this caused much
Sa Jldp, Ma . .
I’ll be up all night ... Big test tomorrow.
fretting in administrative offices, for Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., University president, was afraid of what would happen if the Klan loosed its goon squads on the students.
Sunday was quiet, but Monday night the word was passed that “They’ve got so-and-so downtown and are beating him to death!” Soon the whole campus was running to town. This time, however, the goon squads were present and, although the Irish were fighting, they weren’t noticeably winning.
Father Walsh stepped in at this point, and, appealing to their loyalty to Notre Dame and respect for authority, finally succeeded in marching the students back to campus, and the battle was over.
That ends the action part of the story, but many threatening letters and phone calls resulted in the campus being patrolled nightly for many months. A detailed Klan plot to dynamite the Main Building was actually discovered later, but it was never carried out.
—Bob Finney
Nov. 21, 1952
2J
DR. MICHAEL PAP
Analyzing the Ukrainian Problem
Relations Group Plans Symposium on Soviet
Dr. Waldemar Gurian has announced that the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations will sponsor a symposium on Dec. 11. The symposium will conduct morning and afternoon sessions with a public session in the evening.
“Is Russian Imperialism or Soviet Communism the Enemy?” will be the general topic.
Those attending will discuss whether it is sufficient to destroy the Communist domination in Russia, or the necessity of breaking up the Russian empire, in order to establish peace.
“There are many people living in the Soviet Union who today are opposing Soviet tyranny and Russian domination,” Dr. Gurian said. “They are striving for complete national independence. Particularly important are the Ukrainians and various peoples in the Caucasus and Central Asia.“
“On the other hand,” Dr. Gurian added, “there are some Communistic Russians who believe that the unity of the Russian empire must be maintained even through the extreme of destroying the Soviet regime. These varying views of the peoples now under Russian rule create a definite problem.”
In the morning session Professor Timosheff, of Fordham University, will discuss the difference between Czarist and Soviet policies. Dr. Michael Pap of the University of Notre Dame committee on International Relations will present an analysis of the Ukrainian problem.
Doctor Pipes of the Harvard University Russian Research Center, will de
scribe the desires of the Moslem population of Soviet Russia. Professor Wientroub, of Harvard University, will speak on the method of Soviet imperialism in politics during the afternoon session.
In the evening, Prof. T. Barghoorn, of Yale University, will give a public lecture on nationalism in Soviet Russia. Professor Barghoorn was for many years the cultural attache of the American Embassy in Moscow.
The final lecture will be followed by a question and discussion period. All students and members of the faculty are invited.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the chairman of the symposium.
Musical 'Brute Farce' Will Feature 20 Tunes, Two Acts
The third annual student musical production is under way. The story is by Walt Swift, veteran of many University Theatre shows in the past, and one of the principals from last year’s musical.
Brute Farce is the name of the show, which concerns gangsters who invade a university campus. It seems that the mother of these gentlemen runs a nationwide gambling syndicate, and they wish to take over the local pigskin playboys.
Bengal Bouter Geary Becker has written the music, Bob Rossittei' cooperating on the lyrics. They will come forth with over 20 tunes on opening night. There will be 22 scenes in the play with one break. This is a new setup, replacing the usual three acts.
Rehearsals are scheduled to begin March 15 with performances sometime at the end of April. No parts have been cast as yet, and the writers are looking for an orchestra on the campus.
Debate Foursomes Rank At Purdue and Earlham
Prof. Leonard Sommer’s Debate Team renewed last year’s victory push as they successfully met the season’s first real trial last weekend at Purdue, capturing a team trophy and three individual speaking awards.
In the high-light of the tournament, the four best debaters were chosen to give a model exhibition debate. Notre Dame captured two of the four posts.
Al DeCrane, National Debate Award winner, spoke affirmatively, while Bill Hank, team vice-president, spoke negatively. DeCrane and Hank, along with Don Dowden — who captured sixth speaking position — were awarded Wachtel Speaking Certificates. The foursome, rounded out by Charles Do-
Indiana Plastic Group Meets Here Tonight
The Northern Indiana Section of Plastics Engineers will hold a meeting in the Engineering Auditorium here tonight at 8 o’clock.
Subject of the meeting will consist of a discussion of the physical properties and uses of nylon by B. H. Barnes, who is in charge of the Development and Service Section of E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Co.
Mr. Barnes has been with DuPont for 13 years and has had intimate association with several departments of the company, such as the Rayon, Explosives, Engineering, and Polychemical Departments. He has also been closely associated with the Chemical Control and Technical Military Institute, and holds a degree of Bachelor of Science.
Samples of present uses of nylon will be presented and possible applications of this product for new uses will also be discussed. Illustrated slides will be shown during the talk, with a question and answer period following the discussion.
An informal dinner meeting will be held at Nabicht’s Restaurant on Lincoln Way West, South Bend, tonight at 6:15. Reservations are not necessary, and the dinner is open to all interested persons.
Dean E. E. Schoenherr of the College of Engineering, Prof. Ronald E. Rich of the Industrial Chemistry Department, and Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science, all of Notre Dame, have been invited as special guests. Students at the University are especially urged to attend. Anyone who is interested in the use of nylon in the field of plastics is welcome at the meeting.
herty, all received “Superior” ratings from the judges. Composed of these four men, the ND contingent garnered the third place team trophy.
Fifteen of the country’s top speech schools attended the meet, including such far-flung teams as Utah, Florida, Georgetown and West Point.
Another Irish team took second place at the Earlham College Invitational held last Saturday at Richmond, Ind.
Tom Hartzell and Breen Contest Winner Bill Fagan defended the institution of a Federal Fair Employment Practices Commission, while Tom James and Pete Loedding were against it. The Hartzell-Fagan combination was undefeated.
24
The Scholastic
j
Notre Dame Rebounds Against lowans
Vastly Improved Hawkeyes Hope for Upset; Unbeaten Trojans Irish Foe in Nov. 29 Finale
By BOB FROLICHER
LATTNER SMASHES UPFIELD
MSC Tackler Tries to Hit Low
TWO-WAY LATTNER DRIVING AGAIN
MSC tackler hits high . . . for ball
The Fighting Irish, after falling before highly-ranked Michigan State, will attempt to bounce back into the win column tomorrow when :they clash with the fast-improving Iowa Hawkeyes in Iowa Stadium.
Tomorrow’s battle will mark the lltii time these two teams have fought in a series which started in 1921 with the Irish holding the edge, five games to three with two ties. The amazing thing is that the only two ties have occurred in the last two years.
Iowa always has its eyes on upsets as Ohio State and Northwestern have experienced. In their fourth conference game of the year, they dumped the Buckeyes, 8-0, and just last week upset the Wildcats, 39-14.
Although their record of two victories and six defeats, both wins being in the Big Ten, doesn’t disclose much power, Coach Forest Evashevski has done wonders with the 16 returning lettermen in his first season as Iowa’s head coach. Evashevski employs the single wing, with an occasional “T” thrown in.
Fenton Captains Hawkeye Squad
The Hawkeye forward wall is led by returning letterman and captain, end Bill Fenton. The 210-lb. 6-3 junior is the first permanent season’s captain elected by the squad since 1943. In his sophomore season Fenton was a regular, often playing both offense and defense. Flashy pass-catcher, Dan McBride holds down the left end post. McBride, a 6-2 180-lb. sophomore, is regarded as one of the top offensive ends on the squad. McBride caught nine passes against Wisconsin to break the Iowa single game record of six, and is well on his way to surpassing a season record.
Don Chelf (215) and George Palmer (205) are the likely tackle starters.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offensive)
IOWA	NOTRE DAME
McBride ______LE__________ Penza
Frymire....... LT... Varrichione Clark ..............„„LG_ Seaman
Hilgenberg ....C_______ Schrader
Hall ........RG..	Alessandrini c.
Palmer _______RT_________ Murphy
Fenton c. ____RE_________ Hunter
Britzmann ....QB___________Carey
Rice -........LHB__________ Heap
Stearnes ....RHB.......  Lattner
Breeder ......FB_________ Worden
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 P.M. CST
Chelf, a senior, earned recognition last season when he became a defensive regular in mid-season and is noted for his smashing tackles and smart line play. Sophomore Palmer is up from the ’51 JV squad where he played regular tackle. Cameron Cummins and Richard
CAPT. BILL FENTON Ace pass catcher leads Iowa
Nov. 21, 1952
25
i
JOHNNY LATTNER (14) SHAKES OFF SPARTAN DEFENDERS ON PUNT RETURN Irish Offense Outran and Outfumbled Michigan State.
Frymire are constantly pressing the tackle duo for a starting berth.
The offensive guards are 195-lb. Jerry Clark and 200-lb. John Hall. Clark, a junior, is one of the top linebackers. Hall, another member of the 1951 JV team won his numeral as an end. Jerry Hilgenberg, 6-2 195-lb. senior, the only returning letterman center, rounds out a forward wall which lacks experience and depth.
Rice Eases Reichardt Departure
The backfield will miss All-Midwest fullback Bill Reichardt who set Iowa rushing records and was named the Big Ten’s most valuable player. However, “Dusty” Rice looks like a prospect who might make local fans forget
“BINKY” BROEDER
Fullback well-known to Irish
all about Reichardt. Rice, a 175-lb. junior halfback, broke four records and tied two others and ranked second to Reichardt in his sophomore year. He gained 441 yards in 90 carries, an average of 4.8, along with catching 17 passes for 361 yards and 6 TD’s. A capable replacement for Rice is Jim Hatch. Hatch recently broke a modern Hawkeye record for distance when the Hawkeye halfback galloped 78 yards for a TD. Highly-touted sophomore Bob Stearnes is the other half. Steames is regarded as a double threat at the half spot due to the fact that he is a fine left-handed passer as well as a speedy runner. Jim Milani is also a capable halfback.
The fullback chores are split between senior Bernie Bennett and sophomore “Binky” Broeder. Bennett played left halfback or safety for two seasons before shifting to fullback in spring drill. The Irish remember Broeder well. Last year he caught a Britzmann pass and raced 65 yards for a TD against them. Both weigh 180 lbs.
Burt Britzmann is the sharp passer and leader of the Hawkeye attack. A senior, Britzmann tied the Iowa single game record for most pass completions, 12 against Pitt, and set a new season’s mark for most completions.
Many of the starting backs, such as Rice, Broeder and Bennett, will see double duty. Linemen who will double up include Capt. Fenton, Chelf and Boothe. The Hawkeye defense has stiffened greatly as the season progressed. After yielding an average of 424 yards in their first three conference games, Iowa held Ohio State to 42 yards rushing and Minnesota to 49 yards rushing.	'
USC Closes Irish Season
Notre Dame and Southern California both close their 1952 football season when Jess Hill’s forces invade Notre Dame Stadium Nov. 29.
The spark of the Trojan eleven in their unbeaten season thus far has been safetyman and left halfback (tailback) Jim Sears. No matter where he plays, the 167-lb. senior has been in everybody’s hair. This two-year letterman was the starting righ half as a sophomore, but last year was moved to left half and played in the shadow of All-American Frank Gifford. Playing equally well on offense and defense, he is SC’s leading candidate for All-American honors. Charlie Ane, a rugged 245-lb. junior, is the blocking back on the single wing. Ane played 236 minutes last year, mostly as a tackle.
Al (Hoagy) Carmichael, a senior, plays both right and left half. Carmichael is a terrific running back and a greatly improved passer, averaging 4.8 for 279 yards last year. Leon Sellers, a junior, is still No. 1 fullback despite stiff competition from Hal Han and Des Koch.
Nickoloff double-duty star
The ends are held down by Don Stillwell and Tom Nickoloff. Although injured in ’50 Stillwell came back last fall to snag 11 passes for 107 yards. Nickoloff, who saw action on offense and defense last season, is again seeing double action.
Ken Thompson (210 lbs.) and Chuck Weeks (215 lbs.) are the No. 1 tackles. Thompson took over the first-string job in spring practice. Weeks plays some defensive left tackle, but is rated better on offense.
The guard slots are held by Ed Pucci, 204 lbs., and Bobby Cox, 196 lbs.
GEORGE (DUSTY) RICE
Key to Hawkeye running attack
26
The Scholastic
STEPHENS LEAPS?
Dick Rosenthal Watches
Although Pucci is a junior and Cox a senior, both saw only limited action last year.
Senior Lou Welsh at center rounds out a team that has yet to suffer a defeat this season. Last year Welsh won the most-inspirational-squad-member award. He is also considered an excellent linebacker.
The defensive unit is led by tackle Bob Van Doren and guards Bob Pevi-ani and Elmer Willhoite. Van Doren, a two letterman, played 242 minutes last year. Peviani is also a two letterman who won AP All-Coast honorable mention. Willhoite, a senior, played more varsity time than any Trojan last year, won UP All-American honorable mention, AP All-Coast second team, and made the Washington State and California all-opponent teams in 1951.
Miscues give Spartans 21-3 Win
Fumbles and penalties again spelled trouble for the Irish last Saturday as they fell before an alert Michigan State team, 21-3. This marked the Spartans’ 23rd consecutive win.
The game was featured by 12 fumbles, seven by the Irish with Michigan State recovering every one of the Irish bobbles. The Spartans also had slippery fingers, losing the ball five times, but they recovered all but one of these.
Notre Dame’s great defense played one of their best games of the season. The Irish defensive wall stopped five Spartan drives within their own 30.
After battling to a scoreless first half, ace place-kicker Bob Arrix put the Irish ahead early in the third (Continued on page 28)
Irish Cogers Gird For Creighton, Indiana; Crimson Tide Replaces Kentucky on ND Card
By BILL NOONAN
Cast in the shadows of the past few weeks’ gridiron excitement, Notre Dame’s basketball squad will take over the campus sport spotlight starting Tuesday night, Dec. 3. That evening, the eagers of Creighton university from Omaha, Neb., visit the fieldhouse to open the 22-game 1952-53 Irish schedule.
Practice Sessions Cut
Coach Johnny Jordan’s team received a severe shock recently when assistant coach Marty O’Connor was stricken with polio. As a precautionary measure, the doctors ordered only light practice for the hoopsters until further notice. Complying with this order, Coach Jordan has sliced the practice sessions to 45 minutes a day.
On the bright side is the news that Alabama has replaced NCAA-banned Kentucky on the Irish cage slate. The Crimson Tide, tutored by ex-ND assistant coach, Johnny Dee, will play Notre Dame at the Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne. At last report, the date of the tilt was still uncertain.
Jordan also announced that the St. Louis game at Chicago stadium on Feb. 14 will in all likelihood be the student trip. The Billikens will also be met at St. Louis on Jan. 17.
JUNIOR STEPHENS ATTEMPTS TO BLOCK SHOT IN VARSITY-FROSH SCRIMMAGE
Jordanmen Prepare for Opener with Creighton on Dec. 3.
Right now, however, the Irish must concentrate on Creighton and Indiana. Creighton is of unknown quality to ND at the moment, therefore not much of a line can be given on them. On Dec. 1 though, the Nebraska team meets Chicago Loyola in the Windy City, and it is sure the Irish scouting brigade will be out in full force for that one.
Basketball is Creighton’s major sport and in 1942, with the now famous St. Louis mentor, Ed Hickey at the helm, the Omaha five took part in the Na--tional Invitation Tournament at New York. In recent years their teams have been only fair, but Creighton has made a habit of traveling to all sections of the country meeting many of the nation’s leading outfits.
Schlundt Leads Hoosiers
Indiana, perennially a basketball power, is expected to be just that again this year. Led by two skyscrapers, Don Schlundt, a product of nearby Washington-Clay High school, and Lou Scott, the Hoosiers have been established as one of the favorites in the Big Ten race. Both Schlundt and Scott are 6’10”. Bob Leonard and Dick Farley, 6’3” forwards, along with Sam Esposito
(Continued on page 28)
Nov. 21, 1952
By Jack Sand
National Championship . . . Mythical Indeed
What is and what should be are two completely different things, but in
the case of Flank Leahy’s fumbling Irish the two terms are synonymous. According to many keen and casual observers alike, Michigan State’s almighty Spartans didn’t look so almighty last Saturday. The sentiments of many were echoed throughout South Bend that Oklahoma could have beaten State by at least two touchdowns. But what about the Irish? They, too, could have won by a couple of touchdowns. Yet a pair of distinguished Chicago newspapers had the audacity to headline their sports pages with such misrepresentations as “Michigan State Rips Notre Dame 21-3,” among
others. By virtue of this and what the Associated Press termed as an
impressive thumping of Notre Dame, the Spartans are on top of the
nation’s heap. Why? — because they recovered two game-winning fumbles,
number of penalties, and because they are
and were benefited by the same
POST MORTEM
Press Box Prognosticator
undefeated. This is what is . . . the bare facts.
But what it should be is a different story; a story which saw the Irish get hurt by a penalty against Penn, feel a similar wound against Pitt, and last Saturday become mortally wounded against Michigan State. Take away these wounds and what would you have . . . another National Championship. The fumbles in each of these cases was only the fever, while the penalties inflicted can be considered the prime cause why the Irish are not where MSC is now.
A monumental example of what the above lines tend to arrive at can be quoted from Warren Brown, sports editor
of the Chicago Herald-American, when he came out in his column of Nov. 17 with the following statement: “Capt. Jack Alessandrini had better extend a dainty handshake to his rival captain, otherwise the officials hovering about may start dropping handkerchiefs all over the place signaling that Alessandrini will be penalized 15 yards for illegal use of the hands, and the coin-tossing ceremony will be paced off that much nearer to the Iowa or So. California goal.”
Heap Challenging Mutscheller’s Record
Halfback Joe Heap moved within striking distance of the Irish pass reception records by catching six tosses for 106 yards last Saturday against MSC. Heap now has a total of 26 receptions for 350 yards with two games to go, challenging the marks set by end Jim Mutscheller in 1950 of 35 receptions for 426 yards.
Irish Basketeers Prepare for Rough Schedule
In its annual “Basketball Forecast” Look Magazine rated Notre Dame as the Midwest’s leading independent. They also picked the Irish 21st in their nationwide poll. Actually ND can be considered 20th since Kentucky, ranked No. 4, has been dropped from the picture by the NCAA. The point to be made here though, is the fact that among those top 25 teams Coach Johnny Jordan’s eagers face five of the toughest, in Kansas State (7), UCLA (9), Indiana (12), Holy Cross (13) and St. Louis (23).
Predictions of the Week
Tomorrow the Irish will be facing Iowa’s Hawkeyes for the first time under new head coach Forest Evashevski. Last week Evy’s outfit scored 39 points against Northwestern, the greatest batch of points scored by the Hawkeyes on a Big Ten opponent in 30 years. We doubt if they’ll come close to that mark tomorrow against a stonewall defense that ranks with the best. Notre Dame 27, Iowa 12.
Irish Cagers
(Continued from page 27) and rangy Charlie Kraak also return to spark the Indiana bid.
The biggest problem the Cream and Crimson face is replacing Sam Miranda and Bobby Masters, two of last season’s stalwart guards. With their -wealth of reserve strength, the Hoosiers should have solved this puzzler by the time they invade the Irish fieldhouse Saturday night, Dec. 6.
The Notre Dame picture as far as a prospective starting lineup is still pretty much in the tentative stage. The starting five now operating in the practices shapes up this way: At the forwards, Dick Rosenthal and Bill Sullivan are holding forth while captain “Gootch” Lewinski spins up his soft hook shots from the center post. Jack Stephens, still giving whirl-pool treatments to his injured ankle, is at one guard with veteran Jim Gibbons at the other. Jerry McCloskey with his sometimes sensational overhead set shot will also see heavy duty action at the guard slots.
Joe Bertrand is still a question mark because of the hand he broke in football. It is slowly on the mend, but the flashy forward is still unable to scrimmage. Jordan said it seems doubtful that Bertrand would be ready for the opener, but when he does round himself into condition, he will undoubtedly get the starting call at a front court spot.
Ed McGinn has been alternating as a sub at both guard and forward while John Reynolds and Tom Sullivan vie for the remaining second string guard position. Dick Wise, the huge soph center rounds out the second five.
Miscues Defeat Irish
(Continued from page 27) quarter, 3-0, with a 12-yard field goal.
Shortly after, linebacker Dick Tam-buro recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the Irish 13. The defense again held, but a holding penalty put the ball on the one and McAuliffe crashed over. Five minutes later Henry Bullough fell on Paterra’s fumble on the ND 21. MSC could not move, but another 15-yard penalty pushed the Irish to the one and McAuliffe scored his second TD.
The final tally came after Larry Ellis intercepted a pass and returned it to the Irish 34. On the second play Evan Slonac scooted around end for 24 yards for the tally. Slonac also booted all three conversions.
Notre Dame completely dominated the statistics. In all, the Irish out-gained Michigan State by 128 yards. The Spartans never had to move more than 25 yards for any of their scores.
The Scholastic
28
■ ’
Spirit, Fight and Two Unsung Heroes
TOM SEAMAN
Best Blocking Lineman
This is a tribute to the 1952 Notre Dame football team and especially to the seniors on the squad.
The Notre Dame team of 1952 will always be remembered. It will not be remembered, as the 1924 Irish, because of a famous backfield; it will not be remembered, as the 1930 or 1949 Irish, because of an undefeated National Championship season; it will not be remembered, as the 1935 Irish, because of a famous upset.
It will not even be remembered because it played the toughest schedule in Notre Dame history. But it will be remembered as a true, perhaps an historic, example of Notre Dame spirit and fight.
No matter what Coach Frank Leahy’s often bruised lads do tomorrow or next Saturday, they have proven to Notre Dame followers everywhere that they are one of the most worthy of wearers of the Blue and Gold.
The seniors of the Notre Dame eleven can always, look back with pride at their final campaign, and the Notre
Seaman Plays Every Offensive Minute
By Bill Londo
Dame students will always look upon the seniors with respect.
Among those seniors are two unsung heroes whose performance has been magnificent all this season. The two are perfect examples of all the seniors this year . . . and of the whole team. The two are Tom Seaman and Dave Flood.
Seaman, from Canton, Ohio, has played nearly every minute for the Irish this fall at the offensive left guard spot ... a spot seldom noticed by the fans or by the spoils writers.
In the 27-21 upset over Oklahoma, Notre Dame had the ball for approximately 36 minutes . . . and Seaman played the entire 36 minutes. Many of the ground rushes of fullback Neil Worden and halfback John Lattner, which were instrumental in the two last-period touchdowns scored by the Irish, went over Seaman’s position.
Seaman Leads Blocking Corps
Pulling out of the line on end sweeps or blasting through the middle of the opposition, Seaman leads the Irish blocking corps. He is simply considered the best blocking lineman on the squad.
Seaman, who was 22 years old on the 15th of June, took over as an offensive regular when Paul Burns was injured in the 1951 Southern Methodist game and has been the number one guard on the team ever since. He is also the number two defensive guard on the Irish squad.
Dave Flood is Seaman’s counterpart on the defensive team. Unnoticed, except by opposing ball carriers, Flood roamed as the Irish right linebacker until he broke his collarbone in the game against' Michigan State last Saturday. The Pittsburgh senior was putting on his greatest performance until the accident occurred.
Flood came to Notre Dame with a reputation for speed. In fact he had once run second to Mel Patton in a 100-yard dash when the California star-was the world’s fastest human. Yet except for a few brief moments his play here was confined to defensive work. Flood was hampered by injuries through most of his college career and just never broke into the offensive lineup.
DAVE FLOOD Chief Fumble Recoverer
But defensively he was one of the top Irish performers. This season as a linebacker Flood had recovered five opponents’ fumbles to lead Notre Dame in that department. As a sophomore and junior he doubled as a defensive halfback besides spending some time backing up the line.
Against Purdue this season Flood gave proof of his tackling ability. Twice, Dale Samuels, the diminutive Boilermaker quarterback, darted through the Irish line for what looked to be sizable gains. But both times Flood came from out of nowhere to hit Samuels with vicious tackles that jarred the ball from his hands. And both times Notre Dame recovered the fumbles.
Flood and Seaman are just two of the 10 seniors who finish their football days for Notre Dame within the next eight days. They are examples of the sacrifice and courage that makes up a Notre Dame football player ... a Notre Dame senior ... a Notre Dame tradition.
Hood Always Drowns the Opposition
Nov. 21, 1952
29
Hawkeyes Crush NU; Southern Cal Romps
Both of Notre Dame’s remaining opponents rolled up impressive scores last weekend against foes from their respective conferences.
Iowa’s upset-minded Hawkeyes had to come from behind twice before finally pulling away from Northwestern, 39-14 while out on the west coast Southern California shut out Washington, 33-0 with a four-touchdown second half splurge.
This was the Hawkeyes’ second victory in eight starts, both of them being upsets. Their 8-0 win over Ohio State a month ago astounded football fans, but last week’s victory over the Wildcats can only be classified as a minor surprise.
Coach Forest Evashevski’s charges combined the accurate aerial attack of their three quarterbacks, Paul Kemp, Jack Hess and Burt Britzmann, with a 311-yard rushing game to drop the Wildcats into permanent possession of the Big Ten cellar.
Southern California’s convincing win over- the Huskies set the stage for tomorrow’s crucial battle with UCLA. The Trojans will meet the also undefeated Uclans before 100,000 fans in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum for the right to represent the Pacific Coast Conference in the Bose Bowl.
In making Washington their seventh straight victim, the Trojans also utilized a terrific aerial barrage that scored two out of the five TD’s against the Huskies together with a high geared single wing ground machine. The USC pass defense also proved a deciding factor as they picked off two of the great Don Heinrich’s passes and turned them into Troy touchdowns.
Despite the fact that he was faced with an immense rebuilding job, that of replacing All-Americans Frank Gifford and Pat Cannamela, Head Coach Jess Hill has molded the Men of Troy into one of the best elevens in the country.
Opponents’ records:
w. L.	T.
Pennsylvania _________________3	3	2
Texas _______________________ 6	2	0
Pittsburgh 6	2	0
Purdue 3	3	2
North Carolina 15	0
Navy 5	2	1
Oklahoma 6	11
Michigan State________________8	0	0
Iowa 2	6.	0
So. California----------------8	0	0
48	24	6
AL (HOAGY) CARMICHAEL
So. Cal. Halfback Runs Again
Cleveland, Aesculapians Lead in Kegler Races
In the Blue League, after the third week of competition, Cleveland continued its winning ways by bowling over the Washington, Maryland, and Virginia Club for four points. Thus far, Cleveland is the only undefeated team in this league. Close behind are the Toledo, Buffalo, and Italian Clubs with a total of 11 points for a three-way tie for second place.
The Aesculapians took four points from Milwaukee to take over first place in the Gold League. A.S.M.E. dropped four to Erie, giving Erie second place honors. Third place was taken over by Rochester by splitting with St. Louis.
For team high single Buffalo remains in the lead with 955, but Metallurgy took second place away from the Italian Club by rolling a close 953, and A.I. E.E. wrested third place from Pittsburgh with a 944.
High individual three remains unchanged, but high for the day were Lou Falvo (Rochester), 555, Joe Yazvac (Pittsburgh), 540, and Bob Stefkovich (New Jersey), 535.
First place for high individual single was copped by Yazvac with a 225, pushing Zimpfer into second place, and Schmidt into third.
Two ties added interest to last Sunday’s activities. The first was between New Jersey and Metallurgy, New Jersey winning the playoff in the first frame of the second game. The second was between St. Louis and Rochester, the latter also winning in the first frame of the second game. Next bowling date: Nov. 23, 1:30 p.m.
Drake Dethrones ND In Central Collegiates
Coach Alex Wilson’s defending cross country champions were dethroned by Drake University last Friday in the annual Central Collegiate Conference meet at Chicago. Washington Park’s fine four-mile course was the scene as 28 hopefuls battled down to the wire under perfect weather conditions. Bob Soth and Roy McConnell paced the winning Drake team as they finished one-two to take the day’s individual honors. Soth’s winning time was 20 minutes, 29.9 seconds.
Jack Alexander’s seventh place led the Notre Dame runners. He was followed by William Lenihan, George Helfenstein, Harry Snyder, John O’Connor, Dick DeSchriver, and John Gits of the Irish. Notre Dame’s team score of 48 placed third behind the winning Drake total of 31 and Marquette’s second place 47.
Last year’s squad won the C.C.C. championship on a track knee-deep in mud at the same Washington Park. In addition to Notre Dame, Drake and Marquette, the C.C.C. lists Western Michigan, Michigan Normal, Chicago Loyola, Bradley, Wayne and Detroit. The youthful harriers now begin training for the national championship which will be run at Michigan State on this coming Monday, Nov. 24.
Irish Sailing Club Finishes Second in Ohio State Regatta
The University of Notre Dame Sailing Club again finished second in a top Inter-Collegiate regatta last weekend. This time in the Ohio State Invitational Meet at Buckeye Lake near Columbus, Ohio.
Using six different skippers in sixteen races, the Irish Sailing team totaled 107 points to finish second to Ohio State University in an exciting two days of racing.
Sailing with an extremely light wind, the regatta turned into a three way battle between Notre Dame, Ohio State and the University of Cincinnati for top honors.
Notre Dame’s • Ed Rodgers was high point skipper in his division with a total of 40 points out a possible 54. The other skippers for the Irish were Don Street, John Scannell, Dwight Douglas, Bob Suindeman, and Bob Miller. The ND sailors, are now looking forward to the Timme-Angsten Regatta to be held in Chicago during the Thanksgiving weekend.
30
The Scholastic
Mike Chatter
(Continued from page 23)
Two of them announce only; the other three gather all the campus news as well. The News Department also takes care of the UP teletype news machine and edits all the news that comes in. Such special events as the election night coverage a couple of weeks ago are the responsibility of the News Department.
The other* department under Tom is the Record Library. Head of this is Jim Berquist, aided by two assistants. Besides cataloguing, filing, and keeping track of the records in WNDU’s library, Jim is also responsible for purchasing all records for the station.
It might also be mentioned here that WNDU has the second largest record library in the South Bend area.
So much for programming. Next time, engineering.
In the past week I’ve been asked about four times, “How do you get on the staff at WNDU?” In answer I can only say, “Let us know you want to work for us.” We always have room on the staff for anyone who is genuinely interested in the station, particularly someone who can write.
Don’t be afraid that you won’t be good enough. No one at the station is an “expert” in anything, and we can’t tell how good you are until we can try you out.
—Bryan Coughlin
The Island of Sand
(Continued from page 19)
Days of fruitless searching, punctuated at last by monotony-breaking stops at the tiny islands which were beginning to pin-point the sea. If the islands were deserted, they searched them, always with the same results: nothing. If they were inhabited, they inquired: nothing. A blank. No new wreckage for months.
But one day they stopped at an island which was larger than the rest, an island ringed with coral reefs and covered with forests, with a small, volcanic mountain rising from its center. And here one of the natives had reported to the white trader that there was new wreckage on the eastern reefs.
He relayed the information to the captain and the woman. “Might be the ship you’re lookin’ for. Most prob’ly is. Ain’t heard of any other wrecks lately.” “How about the survivors? They might have waded ashore or something.”
“Sorry ma’am, but there ain’t a chance. The natives would of told me if they’d of seen any tracks.”
“Then what about that little island over there?” she pointed out toward a tiny strip of sand with three palms ris
ing abruptly from its center, just visible around a jutting point of the island.
“That? Ain’t nothin’ there but sand. Ain’t been for years. Nothing grows but them three palms. My boys can row the captain over if you like, though. Too late for you people to leave tonight anyway. Only ’bout five miles.”
She looked at the captain. “I suppose you may as well go ... I mean . . . we have to wait here anyway and all . . ." He sighed and nodded. Such a crazy damn woman. This whole trip was crazy. But she was paying for it. . . .
The boat returned from the tiny spit of sand late that night. The captain was slightly pale beneath his deep tan, but Mrs. Wilson failed to notice it in the flickering torch-light by the pier.
“Well . . . did you find anything?” Yes, he thought, he’d found something all right. A rookery of gulls, and sparse, coarse grass surrounding a little well; he’d found three brown palms lifting their green heads to a startling contrast against the sky. And he’d found sand; dry, shifting, trickling yellow sand, that sank beneath his feet and burned into his hands like something alive. And the creature, the naked unkempt creature that suddenly rose from its scorching burrow beneath the sun, shaking the sand from itself and staring at him with wild eyes. He had advanced, with the dry sand somehow sucking at his heavy boots, and it had retreated; and then it turned and ran, and leaped ... he had watched it in the current, floundering and sinking, and rising again, as animals do when they cannot swim.
“There’s nothing there,” he said. “Nothing there at all. Just a few sea-gull’s nests. Sea-gulls and sand. Nothing but sand.”
Catholic Economists Plan Meeting Dec. 20
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Notre Dame University Chairman of the Program of the Catholic Economic Association, has announced the completion of the Eleventh Annual Convention program to be held at the Conrad Hilton in Chicago on Dec. 20.
Other members of the committee who assisted in planning the program are: William R. Waters, Ph.D., of DePaul University, and T. A. Migilnitsky, Ph.D., chairman of the Department of Economics at Loyola University, Chicago.
General theme of the national convention program is International Economic Relations and Catholic Principles.
Prof. John H. Sheehan, from the University of Notre Dame, will be chairman of the luncheon. meeting. His Eminence, Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, will be guest speaker. Rev. Raymond J. Miller, C.Ss.R., president of the Catholic Economic Association, will address the meeting on “Papal Teaching on International Relations.”
Arrangements will also be made for visitors to tour the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, and the Chicago Board of Trade. Hotel reservations will be available at the Harrison, Blackstone, and Congress Hotels, as well as the Conrad Hilton. Other hotels within a mile radius of the Conrad Hilton are the Atlantic, Chicagoan, Midland, and Hamilton.
Civil Engineering Students Eligible For Highways Exam
An examination of special interest to college students in civil engineering has been announced by the U. S. Civil Service Commission for filling Highway Engineer Trainee jobs in the Bureau of Public Roads. These jobs, paying §3,175 and §3,410 a year, are located throughout the country.
The examination is open to persons who have completed three-fourths or all of a professional civil engineering curriculum or who expect to complete such study by Sept. 30, 1953. All applicants must pass a written test. The maximum age limit is 35.
Further information and application forms may be obtained at first- and second-class post offices, or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. Applications must be submitted not later than Feb. 10, 1953, to the Executive Secretary, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, Bureau of Public Roads, Department of Commerce, Washington 25, D. C.
Nov. 21, 1952
31
Glee Club Cuts Discs for WHOT, Appears At Rallies, Cards National and Local Concerts
Hustling from one program to another, the world-famous Notre Dame Glee Club has now settled down to a rather routine schedule — work and more work.
The most pressing task confronting Director Daniel Pedtke’s organization is the recording of six 15-minute programs for radio station WHOT of South Bend. In these six recordings the Glee Club will incorporate outstanding classical, religious, and popular selections, flavored with a dash of their inimitable comedy.
Following the Glee Club on the WHOT docket will be the Moreau Seminary Choir and the University Concert Band.
Appearances at the Friday night pep rallies have been another chore for the members, along with a guest shot at the Oklahoma rally last Saturday at the Drill Hall, completing a big weekend.
Sunday, Nov. 30, will be the date of the next formal concert of the singing travelers. Bloomington, Ill., will be the recipient of the talented vocalists’ offerings. Chicago’s Queen of All Saints Parish will play host to the Glee Club on Dec. 5 in the second major engagement.
Local occasions will provide two opportunities to present minor concerts in the South Bend area. St. Joseph Hospital on Dec. 7, and the Clay Township High School dedication on Dec. 11, will be the sites of this pair of minor presentations.
One of the highlights of the preholiday season here at Notre Dame is the annual Christmas Concert of the
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Glee Club. This year, Dec. 14, the Sunday before the troops begin the migration to far-away places, will feature the marvelous minstrels at Washington Hall.
This year the South and Southeast will be the territories visited during the mid-semester tour. Traveling through these states, the Glee Club will make stops at both New Orleans and Miami.
St. Louis has beckoned the Glee Club for an engagement over the weekend of March 8. Naturally the annual trek to New York at Easter will be highlighted by an appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town.” A tour along the Atlantic seaboard will feature the return trip, with stops scheduled in upstate New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey.
Newman Press Prints New Edition of 'White Harvest*
In response to the requests of thousands of pastors, seminarians and lay convert makers, The Newman Press of Westminster, Md., has just published a new edition of The White Harvest, a symposium by noted experts on methods of convert making.
Edited by Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, a leader in the convert apostolate in America, The White Harvest presents the methods which have proven most effective in the winning of converts. Among the contributors are such noted convert makers as Fathers Martin J. Scott, S.J., Bertrand L. Conway, C.S.P., Monsignor Hugh L. McMenamin, Monsignor E. C. Dowd, Bishop John F. Noll, and Mr. David Goldstein.
Father Joseph F. Eckert, S.V.D., details the methods which have been instrumental in his receiving more than a thousand Negroes into the Church. Father Edward J. Mannix, S.T.L., presents an analysis of the different types of converts.
Mr. David Goldstein, the noted convert from Judaism, outlines methods of street preaching for laymen. The editor, Father O’Brien, explains the various techniques of recruiting and instructing prospects and shows how laymen can greatly increase the number of converts in every parish by bringing prospects to inquiry classes.
Published some years ago, The White Harvest is generally credited with or-
/ !
s ganizing and systematizing the convert movement in America. Seminarians who used it as a text were able to average from 25 to 50 converts within a year after ordination.
The volume has elicited the special commendation of Pope Pius XI and of the present Pontiff who commends its use to priests, seminarians and lay people in sharing the precious treasure of their Christian faith with the millions of churchless people.
To enable The White Harvest to render the greatest service and reach all classes of readers, The Newman Press has issued the volume in cloth covers ($3.50) and in attractive laminated paper covers (?2).
Hauser Speaks Saturday At Family Life Workshop
Steve Hauser, new mayor of Vet-ville, will speak tomorrow at a workshop sponsored by the NFCCS regional Family Life Commission. The meeting will be held Saturday and Sunday at St. Francis College in Fort Wayne, Ind. Hauser will review the question of marriage before entering military service.
Also representing Notre Dame will be Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., recently appointed NFCCS moderator; Marsh Desmond, regional vice-president and campus senior delegate; Forensics Chairman Joe Conwell, Don Carbone, and Harry Hadlock.
The workshop will be followed Sunday afternoon by a regional council meeting, at which Junior Delegate Frank Donovan, Paul Braunlich, IAAC Chairman Charles Crowley, and Jack Lawless will also represent the University.
The regional workshop will center upon discussion of the practical problems of marriage and family life.
Workshop chainnan is Elaine Frederick of St. Francis College.
ND's Army, Navy, Air Units Join Forces For Jan. 9 Ball
Combining their efforts for the first time, the Notre Dame Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units will sponsor a Military Ball at the Palais Royale in South Bend Jan. 9. Gowns for the g?rls and military dress for the future officers will be the order of the day, with music provided by Buddy Morrow and his orchestra.
Tickets for the Ball will be placed
32
The Scholastic
on sale Dec. 1. The dance is open only to members of the three campus ROTC units.
Management of the dance will be in the hands of three co-chairmen, one each from the Air Cadet Club, the Navy Activities Council, and the Army Engineers Club.
With a total ROTC enrollment at Notre Dame in excess of 2000, the Military Ball could conceivably be the biggest dance of the year.
Although the Navy and Air Force joined hands for last year’s Mid-Air Ball, this year is the first joint social activity foi" all three units.
Gymnasts Schedule Three Meets Away
Three meets have been scheduled for the Notre Dame Gymnasts by the Physical Education Department according to Raymond J. Runkle, faculty sponsor of the organization.
The gymnasts will compete with Northwestern on Jan. 17, Navy Pier on Feb. 7, and Western Illinois State on Feb. 14. Two other meets, one with Iowa State and the other with the University of Chicago are still tentative. All of these competitions will be away from Notre Dame.
Mr. Runkle indicates that the main function of the club is to teach and coach gymnastics—aiming ultimately to develop a varsity team.
At the present time the Gymnastics Club boasts over 50 members. Officers this year are: Neil Vasconcellos, president; Dave Engles, vice-president; and Dick O’Leary, secretary-treasurer.
Officers and faculty advisor alike encourage aspirants to report as new members. Those interested should report to the heavy apparatus room at the Rockne Memorial any day after school.
The club usually has a full schedule— including exhibitions for local civic organizations, Notre Dame basketball games, the annual sports show and any other campus functions which desire its services.
Novice Boxing Tournament
A novice boxing tournament, similar to the one held last school year, is again being planned by Dominic J. Napolitano of the Physical Education Department.
The exact starting date has not been decided on, but it seems likely the tourney will be held sometime in early December. Training sessions are now in progress in the boxing room of the fieldhouse, beginning at 4 p.m. each day.
Father O’Neil discusses a problem with his charges during his office hours.
The Old, Old College
(Continued from page 21)
prayer and compline. “Grand silence” is observed until after Mass the following day. Optional study or retiring follows. Lights go out at 11.
“The attitude of the boys is really edifying,” Father O’Neil stated. “They seem to have caught the spirit of the life. I was delighted with the addition of nocturnal adoration to our schedule. It is an indication that they realize the need and value of sacrifice and prayer.”
The log chapel, adjacent to the Old College, serves as a chapel for the group. Its nearness, however, causes a problem on football week-ends, according to Fathei* O’Neil; tourists going through the chapel mistake the Old
Father Wilson chats with the seminarians during the recreation period.
College for part of the shrine and try to wander in and out all day.
The chapel, a replica of the original building which was destroyed by fire, is an appropriate place for these men to start their initial study for the priesthood, over the tomb of Rev. Stephen Badin, the first priest ordained in the United States.
The chapel's privileged altar dates back to the foundation of the University, and the whole atmosphere indicates the sacrifice out of which something great has grown. It is reminiscent of the pioneer days when Father Sorin set out to build a University with a pile of lumber, a few bricks, and faith.
Nov. 21, 1952
By Paul Zalecki
Last week’s Scholastic announced a contest undertaken by Vetville to raise funds for the Student Union. In referring to the same news item, one of the editorials stated that the drive was for a Student Activities Building. While the first name probably is better known, the second appears to be a more appropriate title.
For one thing, the revamped Science Building by no means will be a Student Union. It was never intended to be one, and plans for a modern Union still remain. What the administration actually is doing is making the best, for a time, of what we have on campus. Other uses to which the Science Building might have been put were sacrificed so that we could have some sort of a recreational center.
That there is a need and desire for such a building — just as there are greater ones for a Student Union — almost goes without saying. The fact that funds from the Mardi Gras are to be used to support it and the news of the Vetville contest shows that there is enthusiasm for the project. With an Activities Building to be in operation in the near future, perhaps it 'will not be too far distant until a Union is constructed on campus.
■
Improvements and the Students
Major improvements like the latter, however, take time. Much as we might like to, as students we can hardly build a Union on our own initiative. We will have to leave that to the administration. There are numerous ■ways, however, in which the students can improve conditions at the University. One natural advantage they have is that no one else knows better what is wanted and needed.
Various innovations at the University have come through student initiative. One of the first that comes to mind is the Book Exchange; another is the Choose Your Major program. The latter one is especially significant in that it is directed toward the primary, the academic, phase of University life.
Suggestions for improvements, moreover, are by no means at an end. Even though the school has been in business over a century, it takes much less than four years to realize that there still is
room for changes. The difficult part, however, is limiting ideas to something practical and workable. It is the difference, for example, between the student body helping to finance the remodelled Activities Building and undertaking the construction of a Union.
■
An Inconvenient System
Some of the changes, consequently, which the students might want to see introduced cannot be done by them alone. A brief acquaintance with the Library, for instance, is enough to show that the system under which it operates frequently is inconvenient. Not being able to see the books directly sometimes makes it difficult to select the best ones. Books, moreover, often turn up missing.
There is not much, however, which the student can do to change the situation except build a bigger library with open shelves or buy all the books he wants to use. The first alternative is hardly feasible. The second too is not practical. Disregarding expense, there is not an adequate place on campus to purchase books. The present book store handles little else besides texts, University publications, Modern Library books and the like.
Building a 'new library or changing the current library system is out of the student’s hands. The same is not true, however, of a book store. A plan for founding one on campus was introduced at a past Senate meeting. The reasons are fairly obvious. Besides being convenient, it probably would be able to serve college needs better than most South Bend stores.
The ones in town are not intended exclusively for a university trade and frequently are inadequately stocked. That a book store on campus could survive financially, of course, has to be decided. It seems fairly obvious, however, that college students would have a relatively heavy demand for books and that they would make good customers. Though the idea for a book store appears to be good, it remains to be seen if it will be enacted.
■
Better Educational Facilities
Another suggestion for making educational facilities better at Notre Dame
— this one came from a member of the faculty — would be to establish in each of the halls limited libraries of required reading books for such courses as religion, history, and so forth. The first thing, of course, would be to determine whether such libraries would be wanted.
The Senate is doing something along the same line by sponsoring a study to learn if there are adequate reading rooms, or lounges, in the halls and if any improvements can be made. Hall study rooms, on the whole, are a good idea. Though it probably would be impossible to establish large enough facilities to meet the eleven o’clock demand, they, nevertheless, should be sufficient for normal use and not overcrowded.
Perhaps any expansion of study rooms - in the halls would not be feasible, but who would have thought that turning a Science Building into an Activities building would be practical or workable? It is not easy to determine definitely what can be done, but if there is a great enough need and strong enough desire, many improvements probably can be introduced.
STUDENT TOURS : SjSnC Bicycle, Motor, Study and Ad* Ai NU venture Tours for as little as H	stMmer^
ODYSSEY TOURS: All-year 14-65 Day Tours for those interested in more than the conventional travel pro-tram. Save as much as 20% by going off-season ... from $575.
^LATIN AMERICA *
Whether it’s MEXICO or ALL Latin America, investigate SITA’s unique “off-the-beaten* track" programs ... as little as $89 for an 8-Day Tour in Mexico. $995-51975 for 30-70 Day Tour of ALL South America.
AtNEMT AROUND == VKlBni the world == Steamer, combination steamer-air trips to the Far East and Around
MSHFniA
SooMoro
the World at prices comparable to shorter trips. 67 days from $1750.
Your TruvH Agent or Stodmls MmmMmmI Travel AnocioliM NEW YOM 17* MV 7-6264
34
The Scholastic
the Van Heusen
shirt
$


j
PHILLIPS-JONES
with the revolutionary soft collar that won’t wrinkle ...ever!
no more starch! no more stays! The soft collar on the Van Heusen Century Shirt stays as trim and neat as your favorite gal—all day! No wonder it’s a favorite with college men from coast to coast.
In white or colors, regular or spread collar. A new Van Heusen free if your Century ever shrinks out of size. Fine broadcloth, $3.95, $4.95
CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT All Mokes—Large Selection Students Special Rates 3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana's Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO. Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
I he of tbe
Alunniu^
C2.
How Do You Get That Gift
Horse to Open His Mouth?
Once there was a Wealthy Alumnus who was also a Soft Touch. Tie an Old School Tie around your neck and he’d give you his shirt to go with it.
One day he realized that this habit of always
saying “Yes” to the Big Question was costing him a Pretty Penny. So he became a Hard Man to Get To. Letters, phone calls and personal visits all encountered a secretary with
a face like a flint and a 4-word vocabulary.
(“He's out of town.”)
This was Rough on the Old School, but nobody had a solution—until the football coach, a Brain in his own ri"ht. eame up with a Magnificent but Simple Idea. He dashed down to the Western Union office and dispatched a Telegram saturated with Old School spirit and dedicated to the theme that unless some Noble Soul came through pronto, the eleven would be playing barefoot and jersey-less.
The ice jam was broken. A Fat Check arrived the next day. Today things are back on a Normal Financial Basis.
There's nothing more practical than using Telegrams to Hurdle Barriers and get to the Guy (or the Gal) you want to talk to. When you want something ... Cash from Home, a Date with a Dreamboat, an Interview with the Man who does the Hiring... it pays to Make your Bid via Western Union.
Nov. 21, 1952
NOSE, THROAT, and Accessory Organs not Adversely Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
FIRST SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE
A responsible consulting organization has reported the results of a continuing study by a competent medical specialist and his staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
A group of people from various walks of life was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six months this group of men and women smoked their normal amount of Chesterfields— 10 to 40 a day. 45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields continually from one to thirty years for an average of 10 years each.
thorough examination, including X-ray pictures, by the medical specialist and his assistants. The examination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough examination of every member of the group, stated: “It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-months period by smoking the cigarettes provided.”
At the beginning and at the end of the six-
i	|	i—	| .
Buy CH ESTERFl ELD.4/w^ Milder
Copyright 1952 LGGfT & .Myers To»*CCO Co.