SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	AUGUST 27, 1943	NO. 8
9n 'Ik* 9uu&:
S Msgr. Sheen to Talk Here Q New NROTC Executive
9 Examinations Cancelled
6 Irish Face Great Lakes
# Vaudeville Gains Momentum 0 Campbell to Lecture
SHADY LANE BY THE LAKE
p 3g.- ~3 g	,3g. -SEZ~
] The Week 3 f 3 e_ nr —3 *■ ar -i r. - a r ■ ■ a r e-
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
FOUNDED 1867
UP AND OFF
Two new varieties of unbalanced characters have been observed plying the abnormal during recent days. First there is the climbing, or “I’ve got my initials carved in the Dome,” type. This group, made up entirely of 15 and 16 year old freshmen, has been competing to see who can come closest to breaking his neck in the tip tops of the church steeple and Main building. These attic Marco Polos are either looking for a short cut to heaven or are a bunch of nostalgic New Yorkers playing skyscraper. Says Wil-burforce Moreoff, current record holder, “Like all college students, I’m only seeking the higher things in life.” The second type of mental pigmy is the anything-for-a-snicker boys who regularly turn the Caf’s menu-bulletin into a comic page. Just a few letters changed and we have the following:
MENU
Bad day	August 26, 1943
Soup
Seamy Flea  -OS
Can’t See Chicken ----------------- .55
Broken Heart and Rice-------------- .30
Room With Mush ____________________ .30
Special
Few Toes & Who’s Beefing -------------------- .25
Vegetables
Horn Off Cob  .10
Bloody Beatings 10
Corks and Cream _____________________________10
The Public and Hot Sandwiches will not be Served
FAST WORKER DEPT.
From the new issue of The Alumnus:
“The marriage of Miss Margaret Mary Ellis and Ensign James J. Siddall, USNR, ’36, took place on July 10, at Freeport, L. I., N. Y.”
“The marriage of Miss Mary Lynch and Ensign James J. Siddall, USNR, ’36, took place on July 10, at Freeport, L. I., N. Y.”
The accelerated program, you know.
❖
BETWEEN US TOO
It’s a cinch that Doc Handy, Notre Dame’s fine old track veteran, didn’t plan the route we take twice a week on our road-work drill. Running 440-time around the stadium would be all
right if we ran it in the right direction: counter-clockwise. As it is, running the route makes us feel like English racehorses. . . . “Hold Everything” had everything we liked. . . . How to torture your Chief or Sergeant: No. 1: Go up to him in the mess-hall and say, “Two please.” No. 2: Ask him what in the world he does with all his time over the week-end. No. 3: Ask him why he wasn’t drafted. . . . During the past week the dining hall ran a close first to the obstacle course as the place we’d like to forget most. Add to amazing characters: A Brownson freshman who smoothly shaves with a long, gleaming straight razor, and never cuts himself.
GONE BUT HARD TO FORGET
A smoke-filled Oliver Coffee Shop, crowded with sport coats and St. Mary Hair-Do’s—, The nightly calls of corsage, jewelry, Stationary, and Nezvszveek salesmen.... The ring of the hall telephone. ... Flowing pitchers of milk and white table cloths.... To Chicago, via thumb, in 100 minutes.... Mix-ups from South Bend going on Daylight Saving Time and the campus remaining CST__ Seniors’ candlelight supper. . . . Zahm hall beer runners.... E.R.C. rumors.
LISTENING POST
There was a short sailor dancing at the Service Center Sunday:
Sailor: “Pardon my dancing, I’m a little stiff from Marching.”
Gal: “Oh that’s okay, I don’t care where you’re from.”
Then there’s the prof who was telling about his family:
“Seventeen boys,” he exclaimed, “and all Democrats except John. The little rascal got to readin’.”
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <♦ ❖ ❖ •>
■ <J«	❖
❖ There will be no SCHOLASTIC ❖ ❖ next Friday. The magazine will ❖ ❖ appear again on Sept. 3. Open ❖ date in Scholastic's publication
4* schedule is due to war conserve- ❖ tion of materials.
4*	4*
•J’ *♦*	•J’ 4* 4* & ♦♦♦	4* 4«
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole________Managing	Editor
Bill Carey..............Sports	Editor
Dick Ames...............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller............Circulation
Charles Renaud____Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey__Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week___________Talbot and
(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters.....Bill Waddington v „ fj. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J. :"‘ (D. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
N.R.O.T.C_______H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina
Marines .................Lou	Riepenhoff
Introducing .................Bob	Moran
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
AUGUST 27. 1943
NO. 8
Msgr. Sheen to Deliver Two Addresses Here
Prof. Campbell to Talk on Orient Next Sunday
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen will deliver two addresses at Notre Dame on Sept. 9 and 10. Monsignor Sheen, one of the Catholic Church’s leading orators in America, will talk on “Men of Good Will” and then will speak on “The Burden on the Western World.”
Realizing the great popularity of Monsignor Sheen, both at Notre Dame and throughout the country, Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, has extended- an invitation to all men of the Navy Midshipmen School to join with students and V-12 service men in attendance at the series. Due to the anticipated response to the Monsignor, Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., has granted the use of the Navy Drill Hall for the talks.
Monsignor Sheen last spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 16, 1942, when he delivered the Centenary sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass marking the 100th anniversary of the Founding of the University. This address was broadcast on a nation-wide radio hookup. He also delivered the 1941 commencement address, and was awarded an honorary LL.D, at
Mid-Semester Examinations Abolished;
Deficiency "Pinkies" Will Be Retained
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies at Notre Dame, announced during the past week that the University Council has decided to abolish mid-semester exams due to the present 16-week semester.
In their place, Father Carrico said, will be two-hour final examinations, given at the end of the semes
ter in October, instead of split into quarterlies. This latter system has been the rule for the past two semesters under
that time. His brother, Dr. Thomas Sheen, was a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1921.	.
Besides his popularity as a platform speaker, Monsignor Sheen is known to millions through his radio work, especially through the Catholic Hour. He is a member of the Philosophy Department in the Catholic University of America.
Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen
the accelerated program.
Mid-semester deficiency reports, fondly known to Notre Dame men as “pinkies,” will be sent to the office and home as usual. Monday, Sept. 6, is the deadline for the deficiency reports. Teachers may still give exams at the mid-semester for the purpose of determining scholastic delinquents. This is entirely at their own discretion. The two-hour finals, however, will be the only credit exams.
The announcement was viewed with mixed feelings on the campus. The general concensus seemed to be that two hour finals—putting all the eggs in one basket—would be much more difficult. A few die-hards still felt that^atest.was.a„ test, and the fewer the better. .
Sunday, August 28, in the Lounge of the Rockne Memorial, Prof. T. Bowyer
Campbell will continue the series of en-
entertainments which has been offered to the students and trainees of the University.
Mr. Campbell will speak on the general problem of the development of a true
Prof. T. B. Campbell understanding between the people of our Western civilization and those of the East. He is exceptionally well qualified to talk on this subject, since he taught for five years in China and has travelled quite extensively in the Orient, especially in Japan. Through the years of his teaching and his travels he has been able to acquire an insight into the philosophies of the people of these countries, which has made it possible for him to deduce roughly what we may expect of them, and what they will expect of us, in the years following the war.
The main premise of the discussion will be the fact that every year the world grows steadily smaller, through improved transportation and communication facil-itties, and an intertwining of political an deconomic interests. Since this will be so we of the West should, and must, make it our business to gain an understanding of the Oriental mind. For any harmony between Oriental and Occidental will be impossible unless some foundation of mutual appreciation is affected, and since we are definitely in the minority, it should fall especially to us to bring this about.
Civilian Dance
The C. A. S. will sponsor a dance Saturday for civilians only. It will be held at .„at_St. Pat's .Hall at 8:00 -pjn. Girls will be furnished and refreshments served.
Campus News
Glance at Past Reveals Long List of
“Sleepy” Jim Crowley of the Four Horsemen; Tenor Stuhldreher, his fellowman of fame; Nick Lukats of Hollywood, and a host of other celebrities.
In 1940, the Campus Vaudeville was again resumed with vigor and satisfying results. This year promises to be no exception to the usual fare of entertainment as set forth by the topnotch artists of the campus.
Famous Performers in Campus Vaudeville
When the Knights of Columbus unfold their 1943 Campus Vaudeville in Washington Hall, on the evening of Sept. 17, they will be carrying on a campus tradition that is one of the richest in a wealth of campus lore. And the stars of the 1943 show will, moreover, join a group of campus performers of another day that reaches back to 1914. Washington Hall has contributed some of the happiest hours to Notre Dame life; at the same time, some of the best known figures on campus have trod the boards of that illustrious theatre.
Rockne in First Show-
Vaudeville on campus got its impetus in 1914, when Father John Talbot Smith, of New York, came to Notre Dame to lecture on the drama. As a means to encourage and promote theatrical participation, and as a means to elicit and bring to light the various talents of individuals, he suggested that vaudeville be attempted, along with plays and musicals. The Knights of Columbus on campus assumed the task of promoting and staging the acts. From the very beginning, the show proved a success. And not the least of well known people taking part in that first enterprise was a young man, living in Corby Hall—Knute Rockne. His act was a blackface aifair. It is rumored that Knute Rockne was very good that evening, and would have come
With All the Grace of a Mack Truck
off with one of the prizes, but for one little detail—he forgot to stay in character and maintain a dialect.
Made Way for Monogram Absurdities
Campus vaudeville continued as an annual parade of topnotch entertainment. In the course of the years these shows presented to the student body a number of men who continued their flair for the stage and eventually arrived on Broadway. Ralph Dumpke, of radio fame, is remembered for his inimitable act of trying to light a cigar as he made an announcement, but invariably failing to do so. When he had consumed a box of matches, the act automatically came to an end; no announcement was ever made. Another act worthy of remembrance was the famous Minstrel Show, staged by the New England Club of the time, and directed by one Ray Murray, now the esteemed prefect in Zahm Hall. Charles Macauley, Harry Scott, Rupe Mills—all well known in the theatrical world—are men who graduated from the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville spectacles.
In 1922 and thereafter, the talent of the entire campus was combined to produce what became famous under the title “Monogram Absurdities” an extravaganza which glorified the Notre Dame athlete, no less than’ life at Notre Dame. In these shows, the stars were legion. This was the creation which was staged annually and featured such names as
Already some acts have gone into rehearsal. A magician is at work, polishing his patter as well as his tricks. Last week he was seen making way for a bit of field work in the dining hall. However, his roommate prevailed upon him to hold his best surprises for Washington Hall and the finals.
Efforts are being made, meantime, to have each hall represented adequately. To that end, all are encouraged to ferret out those acts best calculated to provide good entertainment — and to practice during the remaining days. The entries are now being accepted by Promoter Hallein at the Knights of Columbus office in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Sample NROTC-N.D. Rings Received; Orders Taken
Orders for national NROTC class rings may be placed by juniors almost immediately, the ring committee announced last week.
Word about the combination NROTC-Notre Dame ring was long in coming, but along with correspondence recently received there came a ring sizing set and sample stones and finishes.
The committee will receive orders as soon as samples can be put on display. In the meantime, it suggests that prospective buyers make adequate provision for the deposit that must accompany the order.
Photostat copies of the ring style will be posted immediately.
Regulations governing the use of the ring have been set by the committee:
Rings are available only to seniors, and students will not be permitted to wear them until they have begun th first semester of their senior NROTC work, or until a ring dance has been staged.
The choice of stone in the setting is up to the individual. .	,
A ten dollar deposit must accompany each order.
Rings may be retained by men forced out of the unit for physical disability .
. reasons. On the other hand, dishonorably " discharged meh must return their rings to the committee.
4
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
By Jim Schaeffer
The 59th gold star in the Notre Dame Service Flag commemorates Lieut. Neal Smith, ex. ’39. No report is available on his death.
Ensign J. F. Sprague
Ensign John F. Sprague, ex. ’43, of Sunnyside, Washington, has been reported missing in action August 12. Ensign Sprague is the ninth Notre Dame man missing. Jack enlisted in Naval Aviation a short time after Pearl Harbor. In February, 1942, he was sent to Glenview, Ill., for his training. Afterwards he was stationed at Melbourne, Fla., and Norfolk, Va. Ensign Sprague was a fighter pilot. He left the United States on a mission in May, and returned after two months. Several weeks later he was sent on. another mission, and was reported missing August 12.
While at Notre Dame Jack wrote for both the Scrip and Scholastic. He was also one of the Dining Hall’s busy workers. Jack was a student in the college of Arts and Letters and made an enviable record there. Well-liked on the campus, he was always anxious to make good in anything he entered.
The South Pacific area seems to be one of the largest Notre Dame clubs in the world, judging from the number of Fighting Irish carrying the ball in that sector. Lt. (jg) Tom Mulligan is on an LCI boat, as is Chuck Macaluso, in the dangerous waters down under. But not all the Notre Dame servicemen have
overseas duty. Many are doing their bit in some less exciting but equally important jobs in the United States.
Cadet Joseph H. Ruetz, known to Notre Dame and his opponents as an All-American guard on the 1938 Irish juggernaut, established the highest individual record for the graduating class of August 7 at the Navy Pre-Flight School, at Del Monte, California. Cadet Ruetz, who had spent eight months at St. Mary’s Pre-Flight as an Ensign, had the top composite grade, ranked first in the class in ground training, tied with two others for the best officer aptitude grade, and ranked second in athletics. Cadet Ruetz was a Science major at Notre Dame in the class of 1938, which fact, together with his football experience, may help to account for his exceptional leadership and mental abilities.
Two other alumni who have interesting service assignments inside the United States are Jack Schroeter, ex. ’43, and Vai Deale. Vai is at the Jap Language School at Boulder, Colorado, learning the difficult language of our enemy. At the language school 12 hours of concentrated study a day is the rule and the students talk, eat, think, and dress in Japanese. Lt. Schroeter is at the internment camp at White Sulpher Springs, helping to guard interned diplomats and other foreign enemies.
Anothei- Notre Dame football star who now is doing his staring in military life is Major John R. Flynn, post provost marshall at the Kearns, Utah, Army Air Forces Technical Training .base. Major Flynn was a guard and tackle under Knute Rockne in the early 20’s. He was also on the track team.
This is not the Major’s first war by any means. He was an enlisted man in World War I, and served one year overseas in a field artillery unit. He participated in the Meuse-Argonne and the Verdun actions.
Architecture Students Win
Beaux Institute Arts Awards
Notre Dame students of the Department of Architecture received high drawing awards from the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York, August 19.
In the advanced design, class A, four awards were received out of five designs submitted. The problem was a public market. W. C. Muchow won second medal in this class which is among the high awards. J. P. Braveman, Clayton M. Page and H. E. Schroeder were also awarded mentions. In the same class in a nine hour sketch problem of the design
of a Fashion Show Room, W. C. Muchow won an honorable mention. Donald Knorr and H. E. Schroeder also received mentions.
George Walsh was the only honor in Class B, intermediate design, out of two designs submitted. His design of a airport station received a mention.
In elementary design, Class A, the judges awarded prizes to all designs submitted. First mentions were given to Charles E. Waters, Raymond J. Cusick, and W. F. Vosbeck for their work on a problem of a Town Hall. Half mentions were given to Jesse J. Armstrong, Jose B. Cardenas, and Charles R. Lugton.
Tour N. D. Art Galleries;
Fr. Bednar Demonstrates
An extensive tour of the Notre Dame Art Galleries was conducted by Mr. Paul Byrne Sunday afternoon.
The program was the fifth of a series of entertainments presented for the general student body. Even though the tour did not attract a large assembly it was very interesting; and the masterpieces which were shown in the galleries were truly exquisite.
Mr. Byrne also exhibited war posters, part of the collection of New York’s Museum of Modem Art, from the various Allied and non-belligerent nations, including England, France, Canada, China, Russia, Spain and the United States.
The basis of the group of paintings was donated to the University by the late Charles A. Wightman. Among the outstanding pieces are canvasses by Van Dyke, Teni, Veronese, and an excellent group of primitives.
Later Sunday afternoon Rev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C., gave a demonstration of direct portrait painting. Father Bednar first made a very rough sketch of the model, and then laid special emphasis upon the fact that the features of the face should be painted in after the background has been established. The demonstration became even more interesting as the various strokes seemed to assemble on the canvas the figure of the model. The audience applauded enthusiastically as Father Bednar put'the' finishing touches on the portrait.
Mr. Schwarz New Instructor
The drawing department of the College of Engineering recently increased its staff to nine with, the appointment of Karl Schwarz as drawing instructor.
Mr. Schwarz is a graduate of the University of Illinois. He had been practicing architecture in South Bend for eight years prior to his appointment here at Notre Dame.
5
Fn Kelly Rector of St. Ed's
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., associ
ate professor of classics at Notre Dame
has been appointed to succeed Rev. Leo
W. Gorman as the rector of St. Edward’s Hall. Father Kelly, a graduate of Notre Dame, has been a member' of the faculty since 1929. Before the spring of ’42 Father Kelly was rector of Lyons,
Rev. Thos. A. Kelly anj during this
year became a prefect in Cavanaugh Hall.
Last Thuursday evening Father Gorman called all the members of St. Ed’s together for his last official word to the group. In a short but friendly talk, Father Gorman explained that he wanted to “close shop and leave things in order for the new man.” He added that things had not been too quiet these past few weeks but that perhaps he would welcome a shout now and then in the quietness of the life ahead of him.
In appreciation of their feeling toward him the boys got together and presented Father Gorman with a check at the Saturday morning mass which was offered by him for the boys of St. Ed’s.
Rare Books Exhibited
at University Library
In the collection of rare books which were on exhibit in the University Library last Sunday as part of the Entertainment Series were two heretofore un
revealed volumes. These are accounts of the work done by Dr. A. F. Zahm, chief of the Division of Aeronautics of the Library of Congress, in the field of aeronautics while he was at Notre Danie, during the years 1892-93.
The first book gives the proceedings of. the Aeronautical Conference of 1893, which was actively promoted by the.University. This conference formed an ini-portant milestone in the progress of aeronautics. Many prominent figures attended the meeting. Among the papers presented were those by Secretary Langley, Professor Thurston of Cornell, and William Kress of Vienna, a pioneer in land and seaplane research.
- Included in the records is the story of. Dr. Zahm’s experiment with: atmospheric gusts and ■winds. In this .work he was aid°d by the famous aviation, pioneer, 0. Chanute. This work, was . the basis of much of the present day work in. . the aerodynamic laboratories and ’ wind tunnels.	'	. , .
Joe Boland to Broadcast for Mutual and WGN
It was recently announced that Joe Boland, sports and special events announcer' for Radio Station WSBT in South Bend, had accepted the same position at Mutual’s Station in Chicago, WGN. Joe’s first assignment was to split the airing of the Collegiate All-Star-Washington Redskins thriller last Wednesday night with Bill Stern.
Boland is a familiar name to followers of Notre Dame sports because Joe has been intimately connected with the Irish for many years.
Born in Philadelphia in 1904 to Irish parents he was one of six Bolands who
JOE &OL.AND
were graduated from Roman Catholic High school in Philadelhia, a new record. He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1923. A “shock troop” tackle in 1924, he won his monogram as a sophomore, a sure sign of future greatness in the days of Rockne. He was a varsity regular in 1925 and in the first two games of 1926 against Beloit and Minnesota. Joe was aacciden tally clipped in the; Minnesota game, receiving a broken leg which end-, ed his football career. He won one monogram, in track as a shot-putter.
The accident also cramped Boland’s scholastic endeavors. The previous two years he had won the $100 Frank E. Hering prize for the monogram athlete with the highest scholastic average. His senior year, the prize went to his roommate, Eugene (Scrapiron) Young, distance star in track and present trainer of the Notre Dame teams. Joe was grad-, uated with high honors and immediately began his career as a coach. .
In the. Fall of 1927 and 1928 he was
line coach at Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, Calif., under Adam Walsh. Joe became head coach at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., in 1929, retaining the post through 1932. His team won 27 games, lost 8 and tied 2. He was sports commentator for Radio Station WCCO, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn, in 1933. At Notre Dame Boland has broadcast for WSBT-WFAM, South . Bend,’ covering football, basketball, track, baseball, softball, tennis, golf, boxing and motoi-boating during his career. He has also conducted a news and sports review, and a “man on the street” program.
Joe was married April 6,1931, to Miss Margaret Limburg of Minneapolis. They have a son Joe, Jr., four and a daughter, Margaret, born June 17, 1940.
Church Committees Here;
Prominent Prelates Present
At St. Mary’s College the archdiocesan and diocesan committees of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine held theii' annual meeting on Monday and Tuesday of this week, and the revision committee of the Old and New Testaments assembled there on Wednesday and Thursday.
Outstanding guests of the Confraternity and Notre Dame were Most Rev. John G. Murray, S.T.D., archbishop of St. Paul, Minn.; Most Rev. John T. Mc-Nicholas,. O.P., S.T.M., archbishop of Cincinnati, Ohio; Most Rev. John Francis Noll,- D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.; Most Rev. James T. Kearney, D.D., bishop of Rochester, N.Y.; and the Most Rev. Edwin V. O’Hara, D.D., bishop of Kansas City, Mo., and more than 70 priests and monsignori.
Among _ those prominent in the revision committee were Rev. Edward A. Cerney, S.S., of St. Mary’s seminary in Baltimore; Rev. Maurice A. Hofer, S.S., S.S.L., of the Pontifical college Joseph-inum, Worthington, O.; Rev. John J. Dougherty, S.T.L., S.L.L., Immaculate Conception Theological Seminary, Ramsey, N. J.; Rev. Matthew P. Stapleton, D.D., S.S.L., St. John’s Boston Ecclesiastical seminary; Rev. Edward Mangan, S.SS.R., S.S.L., St. Francis major sem-, inary, Milwaukee, Wis.; and Rev. Eber-• gard Olinger, O.S.B., Saint Meinrad’s
Abbey, St. Meinrad, Ind.
An enjoyable spectacle was presented to the visiting clergymen when the combined Midshipmen and NROTC units went through a special review in their honor, at 4:45 Wednesday afternoon on the drill field. The review was presented through the cooperation of Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N.; and the officers of both
= the Midshipmen and NROTC schools.
Commander H. B. Butcher is New Executive Officer of N. R. O. T. C.
BY H. J. GILLIGAN AND J. D. USINA
Clark Presents Paper to Bookmen on Russian Writer
The Bookmen held their second formal meeting of the semester last Tuesday, August 24.
Commander Herbert B. Butcher, USNR, arrived at Notre Dame last week to assume his duties as the new executive officer of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps here. He succeeds Lieut. Comdr. W. S. Howell, USN, who has filled this position for the-past year and who at present is the executive officer of the V-12 Unit of the Navy’s College Training Program at Notre Dame.
The new executive officer is the fourth to be assigned here since the commissioning of the NROTC unit on Sept 10, 1941. Commander M. T. Farrar, USN, assisted in the establishment of this organization on the campus and took over duties in this connection, leaving on Feb. 3, 1942. Commander W. F. Bullis, USN, was then sent here and upon his departure in August of 1942, Lieut. Comdr. Howell became executive officer.
Since the fall of 1941, Commander Butcher" has seen service as a naval observer with headquarters in London. During much of this period he was the Intelligence Officer on the staff of Admiral Harold R. Stark. He returned to this country last month and, after a short time with the Navy Department in Washington, received his orders and proceeded here, assuming his duties as of August 18.
In World War I, Commander Butcher enlisted in the Navy and after boot training was stationed at the Officer Material School at the University of Pennsylvania. He was still (in training when the Armistice was signed. However, continuing on he was commissioned shortly.
His first sea duty-was aboard the U. S. S. Avocet, a mine sweeper, as executive officer. In 1919 the Avocet was one of 36 mine sweepers engaged in clearing the North Sea mine barrage comprised of 56,000 mines. These mines had been laid by: the United States Navy bet ween, the Orkney Islands and the coast of Norway.
Commander Butcher was bom in . Camden, N. J. on Jan. 26, 1897. He first attended college at Denison University at Granville, 0., where his studies were interrupted by the war. After, the war he returned to complete, his work toward a Ph.B. degree and was graduated in 1921. He has been a graduate student at Yale and at the University of Penn
sylvania, where he also taught. In addition he has been affiliated with the University of Tennessee and Long Island U.
Commander Butcher commented on the Navy’s program here and stated that it is “an inspiring opportunity to contribute to the Navy’s urgent need of trained officers.” Commander Butcher is accompanied here by his wife and at present they are staying at the Oliver Hotel.
Commander H. B. Butcher
CLUBS
Wranglers Hold Banquet
The Wranglers held their first banquet meeting of the year, recently, at which time new members were inducted. Each of the neophytes gave a short speech, and President Bill Lawless then addressed them on the purpose and history of the organization.
Mr, Frank O’Malley, professor of English at the Universty, outlined briefly the changes that have taken place in the club since it was founded, pointing out the fact that it had originated as a strictly -forensic group, but had . since been modified into the discussion club it now'is. y . ' .	■.	'
The Wranglers is. the oldest ck b of its kind on campus at the present time. Meetings are held each .Thursday night.
James Clark presented an intelligent discussion of Ivan Turgenov, the Russian novelist, and his works, which was followed by a discussion of the relative benefits of several of his books as compared to those of his contemporaries and fellow countrymen. Turgenov was criticized because of his weak portrayal of character, and because of the lack of any firmly grounded philosophical tenets.
At the next meeting of the club the book committee will report on the selection of books which it has drawn vp. These books will be voted upon by the members, and those that are accepted will be purchased by. them, .and distributed among them rt the _end; of the semester.
The next meeting of the Bookmen will be held on Tuesday evening. Sept. 7, at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of the Law Building.
Engineers Journey to
Christiana Lake for Picnic
Last Saturday the Aeronautical and Mechanical Engineers of the A. S. E. closed their books and forgot their troubles by spending an enjoyable afternoon at Christiana Lake, 20 miles north of here; The transportation fas furnished by several professors who donated their cars for the occasion.
The highlights of the afternoon were the refreshments, swimming, boating, and ‘ a. soft ball game between the “Aeros” and the “Mechanicals.” The “Mechanicals,” with the aid of Professors Charles Egry, George Rohrbach, and Henry McLellan, won.
Boston Club Meets Tuesday
On .Tuesday evening, August 31, the Boston Club of Notre Dame will meet in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The program is expected to consist of the football pictures of the 1941 Notre Dame-Southern California struggle that completed the undefeated year for the Irish with a 20-18 win. Chief Petty Officer Bob Robertson, the outstanding player on the field that day - and an All American from Southern Cal., will comment on the pictures. All . are invited to attend the pictures. There will be a business meeting: of the club when the. movies are completed. . . ..
7. I
The MARINES
On The Campus
BY BOB MORAN
JIM O'DEA
Last Monday evening we interviewed Jim O’Dea in the middle of that deep dark black-out which covered the campus. But our interview itself was anything from dark, for we found Jim to be a most absorbing individual.
Jim’s home town is Lowell, Mass., where he was born in 1922. There he went to the local high school and participated in track, tennis, and baseball, and was president of his class during the three years that he remained at Lowell High. He was appointed a member of the State Champion Debating Team and later achieved the honor of extemporaneous champion of New England. He then competed in the national debating championships in California and Indiana. Jim also was a first lieutenant in the high school R.O.T.C. regiment.
When Jim came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1940 he had the distinct privilege of becoming the third Freshman ever allowed to join the Wrangler’s Club. During his Sophomore year O’Dea was elected chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion.
Jim has been one of the prominent debaters on the campus; he was on the interhall debating squad in his Freshman year and was on the varsity team for the following two years. He became associated with the Bookmen in his Junior year and then served as secretary of the Wranglers.
Jim’s living quarters are now at 243 Zahm, citadel of the Marines, and he still conttinues to maintain a scholastic average of 93%. He proposes to enter practical politics after the war, but will first seek an LL.B. degree groin Harvard. Having been mayor of Lowell for one day, Jim was highly inspired to get into the political field but the local civil authorities discontinued the annual student event because Jim, while in this ephemeral office, proclaimed that Lowell’s schools should shut down. However, Jim’s intentions are strong and he will follow this career in the post-war world.
Jim will receive his Notre Dame diploma at the close of the current semester.
FRANK REPILADO
Legally speaking, Frank Rapilado was born in Santiago. However, the story isn’t as simple as all that, for he was born of Cuban parents on an American boat three miles off the coast of Melbourne, Australia.
“Bitzy,” as he is known to most of his friends on the campus, was first educated at a Jesuit school in Santiago, Cuba. He got his initial glimpse of the United States when, accompanied by his parents, he traveled through this country in 1936, visiting all of the states except Washington and Oregon.
In 1937 Frank returned to America, enrolling as a student at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga. While there he was captain of both the fencing and swimming teams, and graduated from the school two years later with first honors.
After this Frank attended Georgia Tech for three years, taking electrical engineering. During his stay there he made the varsity fencing team and also became a member of the Newman Club, the only Catholic organization on the campus. And he even managed to patent a mechanical engineering device in his Freshman year at Georgia Tech. The Foil and Mask Society, a national fraternity for fencers, honored Frank by making him a member of this distinguished group. He received an award from the Georgia Tech Newman Club for directing the Glee Club. While at this southern institution Frank got his popular nick-name, “Bitzy.” It was automatically given him because his roommate was the proud possessor of a 7 foot 2 inch physique—exactly two feet taller than Frank.
Next for Bitzy was Notre Dame, which he entered in 1942. He holds the title of secretary in two campus societies here, the La Raza Club and the Glee Club. “Bitzy” is also the chairman of the Panel of Discussion. He is in the College of Engineering.
By Pvt. Lou Riepenhoff
An article appeared recently in The Chevron, Marine Corps newspaper published at San Diego, to the effect that an ingenious detachment of Leathernecks on a South Pacific isle, tiring of the routine reveille call, suggested to their bugler that he alter the tempo of his sunrise serenade. The bugler proved quite cooperative and the results of his efforts quite satisfactory as every morning ’long about sunup his hot lick swing version of “You can’t get ’em up” is reported to have the boys rolling out of their cots with gusto plus.
One of our Marines here, who claims he has more than a little difficulty shedding the sheets of an early morn at the summons of what he describes as a decidedly monotonous, lullaby-like, sleepprovoking fire alarm bell, was somewhat impressed by the article. From his thoughts recurring as an aftermath of its reading evolved the suggestion that the present feeble mechanism which attempts, in his case quite fruitlessly, to arouse the Marine residents of Zahm and Cavanaugh halls each a.m. be replaced by a Swiss bell-ringer well versed in the 20th century art of chopping the chimes to a rhythm frequently associated with lower Basin Street.
’Tis well to learn we have a thinker and a reformer in our midst. And it is a foregone conclusion that the present awakening system could stand a smattering of reform. But the popular consensus of opinion among the Marines is that this “Semi-boot” genius divert his talents to other channels more worthy of his merit, preferably the near-by sewage channels. Imagine being awakened each morning to the metallic clang of the “One O’clock Jump” when you know good and well it’s 6:00 o’clock and time to hit the deck for good.
If there is to be a change at all in the present reveille system, chorus the boys (Continued on page 12)
8
Notre Dame Sports
Irish Face Great Lakes Squad Here;
Diamond Feature Sunday Afternoon
BY BILL CAREY
Sunday afternoon the third base dugout at Cartier Field will house the most powerful independent baseball team in the country. The outstanding sporting event of the summer season will match the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame and the Great Lakes Naval Training Station.
It is the third and rubber game in a baseball series that started in 1942 when Coach Jake Kline’s club defeated the Sailors 8 to 6. Last spring, however, the belting Bluejackets gained revenge when they toppled the Irish 8 to 2 at Great Lakes. Hal Smullen, New Haven Conn., righthander pitched both games for Notre Dame. Smullen himself is now in the Navy.
Sunday the Navy lads will take the field with a record behind them of almost 50 triumphs. Their- lineup is major league from bow to stem. Fourteen men who reached the top bracket in Doubleday’s Folly are listed on the roster. They cashed in their baseball flannels for the Navy woolens.
Led by their inspiring leader, Lieut. Mickey Cochrane, the Bluejackets have proved themselves the equal of the nation’s best. To date they have copped the
Can We Repeat, This Year?
palm in seven of their 13 contests with major league teams—a winning percentage that would put them in runner-up spot in either league at this point in the pennant race. Numbered among their victims are the World Champion Saint Louis Cardinals. The Detroit Tigers were scuttled by three Great Lakes pitchers who gave but one hit over the nine inning stretch. Other scalps hanging in their trophy room belong to minor league, college and service teams all over the Mid West. The Bluejackets have won four straight national service championships, and are well on their way to a fifth.
The 1943 nine is an even stronger aggregation than the 1942 edition that won 63 games o a 77 tilt card. This new club has more power and classier pitching. It also has in the person of Johnny Mize a cleanup batter sorely needed last summer. Blend the cream of major league batting, fielding and pitching and you have the Great Lakes team.
Lieut. Gordon S. Cochrane, “Mickey” to American diamond fans, is baseball officer of the station and at the helm of the Sailor nine. Cochrae’s baseball record speaks for itself. He was named
most valuable player in the American League in 1928, and as a manager steered his Detroit Tigers to the pennant of the junior circuit in 1934 and ’3-5. In 1942 he was named as the pilot of the All Star Service team that played the American League All Stars in the Cleveland Municial Stadium. In the first year of his Navy career Mickey handled the reins pf the Service Champions of America at Great Lakes. Famed as a builder of champions Cochrane today should feel right at home.
Biggest and brightest on the multistarred club is ex-Cardinal and Giant, Johnny Mize, first baseman and dean up slugger. Johnny—all 230 pounds of him —was named to the guardianship of the initial sack for the National League All Stars in 1937-39, and in 1940-41-42.. He led the elder drcuit batters in 1939 and powdered out some 43 round trip wallops in 1940. Mize’s average finished over the .300 mark every year in the majors.
Fleet footed Barney McCosky in cen-. ter field is another veteran of the All Star lineup. Barney was the best fly chaser in the Detroit Tiger’s outfield and patrolled the center pastures for the American Leaguers on their intra-cir-cuit encounters.
His outfield mates include Joe Grace and Glenn McQuillen. Grace, regular right fielder for the St. Louis Browns is nick-named Hawkeye because his keen eye at the plate draws him more walks than the rest of his teammates. McQuillen, a redhead, is another ex-Brownie. Red will follow Mize at the plate because of his consistent slugging.
Reserve outer gardeners include Leo Nonnenkamp, who has worn Boston Red Sox and Kansas City flannels, Earl Bof-yard from Dallas in the Texas League and Dan Casey from Bennington, Vt.
Flanking Mize in the infield are Chester Hajduk at second, Eddie Pellagrini at short and Carl Fiore at the hot corner. Hajduk is Chicago White Sox property and tilts the Fairbanks at a healthy 185 pounds. On the other side of the keystone sack is Eddie Pellagrini, one of the finest shortstops in the game. Eddie never saw much major league action because as a Boston Red Socker he came up the same spring as All American Johnny Pesky. His unerring pair of hands, strong arm and healthy swatting mark high in the .350s makes him a standout on a team of standouts. Mark this native Bostonian down in your books' as a future great. At the final turn is the surprise package of the squad. Carl Fiore from Scranton of the Eastern League. Carl has come through in bang- ,
9
up style and need make no apologies for his sterling play.
Catching the slants of a sextet of worthies will be George (Skeeter) Dickey, the younger brother of Yankee Bill. A 6 foot four inch 200 pound tarket Skeets saw action for the Red Sox and White Sox before joining the Navy. The rest of the receiving department include Marvin Felderman, ex Cub; Denny Gleason from New Orleans, and Warren Robinson, a Rochester, New York lad.
Out on the hill, Mickey Cochrane has a cluster of reliable hurlers. Ex-Cub Vern Olsen had a string of 38 consecutive scoreless innings when pitching for the Wrigleymen. Ducky Medwick broke it with a home run. Johnny Schmitz was a fellow Chicagoan. Tom Ferrick, a 200 pounder from the Cleveland Indians, was one of the most promising young American League pitchers, as were Bob Harris from the Athletics and George Biscan from the Browns.
The game Sunday is scheduled for 2:30. Servicemen will be admitted free of charge and civilian students are reminded to bring their Dining Hall books as a ticket of admission. There will be a slight charge for outsiders. A capacity crowd is expected.
Functional Swim Meet;
For Trainees and Civilians
By Bill Waddington
Trainees and civilians alike have probably wondered why they’ve been doing such queer tasks in St. Joe’s Lake since the phy-ed program was inaugurated, that is, in accordance with their swimming pare of the course. That would-be nonsense is in reality the true reproduction of what one might have to encounter in an oceanic catastrophe.
But now that training is going to pay dividends, at least to the ones who show the greatest variety of maneuverability in getting through the water.
Instead of the usual speed strokes and team relays, as one would expect to see in any regular acquatic display, this so-called “functional swim meet” will engender a lot of competitive spirit through a new set of events, unknown to most swimming circles.
In announcing the meet, Ensign S. J. Jablonski pointed out that it is an all around program of events that will enable the boys to compete under pressure and in unfamiliar circumstances, thus stimulating some actual wartime measures.
Sept. 11, Saturday at 2:00 p.m. or . 1400 to the trainees is the time. St. Joe’s Lake will be the site of this acquatic endeavor. Each hall will be permitted to
enter one ten man team, or less, each man in turn being limited to two events and a relay. So, you’ve got 12 days to get on the ball and have entries submitted to the Duty Chief in the V-12 athletic office in the Rockne Memorial Building. Civilians may register their entries with Mr. Scannell in the Rockne Memorial Building.
Regular Notre Dame Interhall medals will be awarded to members of the winning team.
The list of events follow below:
(1)	50 yd. swim and rescue (two man)
(a)	Front approach.
(b)	Cross chest carry.
(c)	Fireman carry.
(d)	Resuscitation.
(2)	Underwater swim for distance, (clothed).
(3)	Elimination support swim. (4 lb. (weights).
You get a four pound v.-eight in e_ch hand by the way. Then, just keep going: that's all there's to it.
(4)75 yd. Speed support swim.
, Carrying an object on the head that must not get wet is the purpose here.
(5)	Shirt tail life-saving. -
(After jumping into the water with jumper and trousers on, they will be removed and inflated before continuing, the air to be supplied for the inflation by the individuals participating and not a pump.)
(6)	75 yd. Elementary back stroke.
(7)	75 yd. shirt tow swim, (two man).
One swimmer does all the work while the other hangs onto the jumper and gets a free ride.
(8)	Elimination pole-tug-of-war.
(9)100 yd. four man jumper relay.
This ought to be the best laugh of the whole thing with each gang trying to outdo the other. Each man must take off his jumper and give it to his -teammate in the water before eech one shoves off in turn.
Scoring in the meet will be as follows: Events—5-3-2-1.
Relays—S-4-3-2.	-
Don’t forget, the date is Sept. 11 and entries close Sept. 7. For those of you who don’t feel quite up to. such tactics, there are some reserved seats at waterside that can be had by coming early. But try and get in it, for it’ll be a whale of a lot of fun even if you don’t win. Everybody has a chance.
Netmen face West. Michigan
Next Saturday, August 28th, the Notre Dame Varsity tennis squad will journey to Kalamazoo, Michigan to meet Western~Miclugan’s powerful crop of racquet-swingers.
A team of six will be chosen from the number of interhall enthusiasts found daily on Notre Dame's many courts. So far the seven best performers seem to be Charley. Samson, Bob Faught, Bob . Paddock, Jim Griffon, Dick Doermer and Bill Kessler.
N. D. Men Prominent
in Chicago All-Star Game
Had the official colors of the All Star game at Dyche stadium last Wednesday night been the Blue and Gold, no fault could have been found.
From a promotion angle, head Man Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and the man behind the game is a Notre Dame grad. The man behind the man behind the game was Ward’s assistant and fellow alumnus, Robert “Red” Lonergan of the class of ’43. To these two fell the task of arranging the millions of details that all blended to make the game the great success that it was.
On the sidelines the mentors in command of the enemy camps were both exNotre Dame athletes of Rockne fame: Harry Stuhldreher of Four Horseman renown, top man of the Collegiate All Stars, and Arthur “Dutch” Bergman, big chief of the Professional Champions Washington Redskins. Assisting in the preparation of the All Stars was Coach Frank Leahy of Notre Dame.
On the field itself former and present Irish greats included for the Redskins Johnny Kovatch and Steve Bagarus, and for the stars Ray Ebli, Wally Ziemba, Bill Huber, Cammille Picconne, Cornie Clatt, Angelo Bertelli and Frank Syz-manski. No other college boasts so great a representation.
Up in the broadcasting booth, Joe Boland,. former Notre Dame football luminary and later an assistant coach ' of the Irish, split the air assignment with Bill Stern.
Juzwik and Sitko at Gr. Lakes
Two Notre Dame names will appear in the lineup of the Great Lakes Naval . Training Station football team this fall. Chief Petty Officer Steve Juzwik, fleet footed halfback on the undefeated Irish club of 1941, will undoubtedly be one of the mainstays of the Bluejackets running attack.
Another product of Cartier Field to see action for the sailors will be Emil “Red” Sitko, the cousin of Steve Sitko, Notre Dame ace of a few years back. Red was considered by the coaches one of the most promising Freshmen on the yearling squad last fall’ He is a hard and ..deceptive runner.
10
BY BILL WADDINGTON
With all this around-the-lake road
work going on, it seems strange that some wise guy with Weismuller ability
doesn’t try to swim across rather than
Bill Waddington
go around.... Somebody will do it before long, demerits and all... When this thing ■was written, the Allstar football game ■was still three days away and everybody ■was gaining confidence in the college
boys as is the usual custom.... Now it’s
history, and if I guessed wrong in saying that Washington showed the boys what an organized bunch of ballplayers can do, well, then I’ll throw my theory away.... After all, that longer period of practice together and playing together such as the pros possess — it seems reasonably hard to beat.... Nobody can say it’s been a dull summer around here, from the point of view ■ of non-varsity athletes anyway.... The Midshipmen, NROTC, Marines, V-12 and civilians all were able to organize and put representative league teams on the diamond, playing among each other, never forgetting also the Brothers of Dujarie and Breen-Phillips. ...
It won’t be long now until American gridiron fans can begin to fill the stadiums for America’s overwhelmingly popular fall sport.... But, how filled -will those stands be when the kickoff actually
5ESSE5SS5E55S55S5SS5SSSSS5SSSS5SSS5SESS5SSS555SSSS5SSS55SSSES5SSSSSESSS555SSSSSSSSS5S5S5SSS5EEES5SSSS5SSSSSSS5>
NOW Under ONE Roof I
Stated	I
B R U G	G N E R ' S
NEWS CENTER Q, CIGAR STORE	I
127 W. Washington O\ 110 North Main St.	|
in the J. M. S. Building	|
PAY US A VISIT!	I
takes place.... A lot of the teams competing will be operating strictly on a do-re-mi basis, the other true affiliates of the sport will be out there to see just what the boys have got, that stuff that makes for victory in wartitme. — With Joe Boland signed by WGN, Mutual’s Chicago station, it’s likely that Notre Dame will be brought to the front when it comes time to determine what game will be broadcast on the Mutual program from week to week.... The boys enrolled in combat and obstacle course in their physical training will appreciate the merits of such tactics if they have experience such as shown in the picture at a local cinema during the past week, namely “Bataan.”
Two-Way Battle
If Northwestern and Michigan continue to publish the rosters of their present squads with as many new faces (due to military transfers) as they have, they’ll soon scare the rest of the Big Nine out of showing up.... And it’s hot a front either because both clubs have acquired much of the materiel that makes for championship.... Again, this corner predicts that Waldorf and Crisler will wind-up in a battle of wits in planning the championship course.
When one man earns $150,000 for the armed forces, it’s a pretty good sum to start one thinking about.... But -when it’s a foreigner, then that tops everything. ... Nevertheless, Gunder Haegg
netted that much for the Army Air Forces Aid Society in this American tour that ended August 11 in New York .... With a guy like that pitching for us, you can almost wish him to beat our American competition that is put forth.
Here's One Guy Pluggin’ -
The University of Indiana sport pages peel off the fact that the Iowa Seahawks’ toughest game will be with the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame; and from previous indications of local potentiality, the lad from downstate isn’t just heatin’ his gums either.____Coach Alvin (Bo) McMillin of Indiana is also an air raid warden in Zone Nine in Bloomigton.
Talkig about giving things away in war time and not getting any return! .... That’s hardly the case in St. Louis, for both the Cards and the Browns have donated free passes to Red Cross blood donors.... The youngest player in the minor leagues, according to Los Angeles claims, is Billy (the Angel Kid) Sarni... He’s only . 15 and has been going like wild-fire with the San Diego Padres.... This matter of getting up early is tough all right, but Jimmy Dykes of the WhiteSox says that any of his boys who lie in bed, in order to avoid an early rising, will furnish their own cash for breakfasts incurred.... Leave it to that guy to give a biscuit for a barrel of flour.
Interhall Softball Underway;
Eight Teams in League
Under the capable direction of Mr. Maxwell, of the Phy Ed Department, the Interhall softball season is now in full swing. Eight teams so far have been organized for afternoon competition. Interhall sports, a prominent feature of the Notre Dame program, are supervised by the athletic department. All students except varsity players are eligible, and rivalry has long been keen. The individual teams are organized by the students themselves, who select their captains and supply their own officials.
The teams and captains signed up to date include:
Co. A from Dillon Hall—HatscheU.
. St. Ed’s Devils—Lesmez.
Co. B of Dillon—Shioleno.	-
The Dillon RA.C.’s, headed by Ted Petrillo.	.	-
Co. I from Alumni—John Brady.
Frankie Curran’s team from Dillon.
St. Ed’s Angels, led by Ted Colgan.
Marine Zahmbies, captained by Lenny-Neiman.
. II
The results of the first games are:
Aug. 10: Co. A beat Zahmbies, 10-6.
Aug. 10: Currans team defeated R. A. C.’s, 11-6.
Aug. 11: St. Ed’s Angels whipped Co. B, 10-7.
Aug. 17: Zahmbies sunk Co. B, 4-0.
Aug. 18: Curran’s team beat Co. A, 6-2.
Aug. 20: St. Ed’s Angels downed R. A. C.’s, 8-5.
Aug. 20:. St. Ed’s Devils defeated Co. I, 6-1.
Curran’s team is leading, but it’s too early to make any predictions.
Softball will continue until the fall interhall season- opens. The teams compete on a ladder tournament basis. Games are played any week-day afternoon when two outfits can get together. This arrangement is necessary because of the heavy and varied schedules which most students are carrying. At the close of the season, members of the leading club, the one with the highest percentage of wins, will receive traditional interhall medals.
THE MARINES
(Continued from page 8) of the Marine detachment, a much more feasible one would be another Leathernecks scheme of caging a brood of soft-winged bats in the belfrys of Zahm and Cavanaugh halls, which assortment of wild life, he adds, might easily and cheaply be procured from the skull of the aforementioned “Semi-boot.”
This suggestion, however, might not prove as practical as it appears. Indeed the feather-like tapping of bat wings on bell shells would undoubtedly afford us Leathernecks an excuse, however invalid it might later prove to be, to snuggle in the sack a few minutes longer ’till the wind of the winged ones’ inefficiency blew southward to the detachment office. But alas, what profiteth it if a Marine doth gain a world of sleep and falleth victim to the charge that he hath bats in his belfry.
So until a more appropriate plan is advanced concerning a revision of the present reveille system it appears we shall have to content ourselves with living lives similar to those of the men who ride the little red wagons.
This matter should not be taken too lightly, however. Its satisfactory solution will be a Godsend to the Marine detachment. For those philanthropically-minded Marines interested in this current-day problem of their detachment suggested reading matter includes Ernest Hemmingway’s For Whom The Bell Tolls, the motion picture “Belle Starr” and that popular song hit of a few years back, “Ding Dong Daddy.”
12
Marine Detachment Dance
Band; Volunteers Sought
The Marine Detachment, under the organization of Pvt. Donald Lanphere, is planning the formation of a Marine dance orchestra. All musically talented Marines, especially reed instrument play-
ers, interested in becoming members of the orchestra are invited to report to Pvt. Lanphere in room 143 Zahm hall any evening between 1830 and 1930.
Prompt cooperation of interested Marine musicians in this undertaking, approved by the detachment commander, Capt. John W. Finney, USMCR, will determine the extent of its success.
Blackout Darkens Campus Monday Night; One Casualty
The fact that wai' can be unpleasant was brought home forcibly to Notre Dame last Monday night, when, about nine-thirty, the University underwent its first blackout. One casualty resulted: the “saboteur” who attempted to destroy St. Ed’s with a fire cracker.
Some of the tales that have come out of those few minutes of darkness are terrifying as well as inspiring.
Probably the most bizarre occurrence of the evening, however, was one that took place just outside the Huddle. Two men were walking by there, one in the direction of the Main Building and one going toward Zahm Hall. Because of the darkness they were unable to see one another and so collided rather painfully. They immediately begged each others pardon, shook hands, kissed each others cheek, and finally decided to drop into the Huddle where they would buy each other a beer. (This being the customary thing to do at Notre Dame when you bump into someone.) You can imagine their mutual horror, when, entering the lighted room, they discovered that one of them was a Marine and the other a Navy man. The scene that followed was both vivid and too touching to present to the tender feelings of the average Scholastic reader, and much too vivid to pass the censorship for which the magazine is so nobly endowed.
The number of typing errors that may be laid to the sudden dousing of the lights is too large to mention; the minutes spent shuffling around rooms looking for matches goes into the thousands; ..
the number of fire crackers set off during the evening was necessarily small because of disciplinary action against such a procedure, but might have been larger had it been allowed to take its own course.
Third Deck Takes Lead
in N.R.O.T.C. Softball
By Jack Houghteling
In the most exciting game of the season, the Third Deck defeated the First Deck 9-8 in extra innings, Tuesday, August 24 on Badin Bog, to take the lead in the NROTC Deck Softball League. Bill Wick’s double in the last of the ninth with Jim Ledwith on second and Dan Long on third provided the margin of victory in the stormy struggle.
The First Deck trailed 4-3 at the start of the seventh and last scheduled frame, but they rallied for two runs and a 5-4 lead. Dan Long’s homer in the last of the inning tied the score.
Ed Ghigliotti put the First Deck ahead in the eighth when he homered but Deck One bounced back and knotted the score at six apiece.
In the top of the ninth, Deck One once more surged ahead when they crossed the plate with two runs and what appeared to be the winning margin. The Third Deck, once more struck back and this time with an extra run to put the game on ice.
Jack Houghteling received credit for the victory as he relieved John Kramer at the start of the ninth. Dan Hecht pitched the entire game for the losers.
Fourth Deck Wins First Game
The Fourth Deck won its first game of the season when it took a hectic 12-10 decision from the Second Deck on the Biology Field. Deck Two rallied for six runs in the seventh but fell short of the necessary runs.
Dan Long, Deck 3, is currently leading the league in batting with an average of .444. He is followed closely by Bob Griffin of the Fourth Deck with .437 and Jim Ledwith of the Third Deck with an-average of .424.
John Kramer, of the Third Deck, heads the pitchers with four victories and no defeats. His teammate Jack Houghteling comes next with four wins and one defeat for a percentage of .800 while Dan Hecht leads in total wins with seven as against two defeats and a percentage of .777.
The official Deck League standings: w L ’ pct. .
Deck	3	...........	8	1	.888
Deck	1	....2............	7	2	.777
Deck	2	..._1	7	.125
. Deck	4	__________   1	7	.125
Freeman Field Fliers
Grounded by Klinemen
By Joe Fahey
Gaining their fifth victory of the season before a large home crowd, the Notre Dame baseball team primed for their date with Great Lakes next Sunday by knocking off the Freeman Field nine, 8-2. Joe Zieminski turned in a fine pitching exhibition in delivering his second victory of the season by holding the oppo-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
sition to seven scattered hits while fanning six of the flyers. The soldiers scored single runs and failed to bring about a really threatening rally.
The game, which looked as though it might turn into a pitcher’s battle, broke wide open in the sixth inning. A walk by Phillip, an error by shortstop Madrid, former West Coast semi-pro, Sheehan’s long fly, followed by successive singles by Scarpelli and Klein and a walk to Marv Kranda accounted for the Irish scoring. In the seventh inning- Sheehan’s line drive caromed off Higgin’s knee and the injury forced him to retire from the game in favor of Mattio, who shut out the Irish for the remaining frames.
Once again Kranda and Klein Ted the attack with three hits apiece, a triple from the bat of Kranda being the longest hit of the game. One feature of the game was that, aside from the pitcher, not one Notre Dame batter struck out.
Freeman Field 000 010 001— 7 2 6 Notre Dame 101 024 OOx—10 8 4.
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Interhall Tennis
Notre Dame’s inter-hall tennis is now progressing smoothly. Many of the teams participating- find it difficult to arrange matches that will not interfere with the players’ schedules. To relieve this burden, the individual matches are held at the convenience of the players concerned and the results are tabulated later, in order to determine which hall is the winner of the contest.
In the matches so far the Faculty overcame the Main Building, 5-0; Alumni defeated Cavanaugh Hall; and Dillon I is leading Sorin, with the number one doubles match yet to be played. At the present time Zahm is leading Walsh by a score of 2-1. If Zahm succeeds in beating the NROTC it will be considered as the upset of the week. St. Ed’s and Cavanaugh are locked in a 1-1 tie.
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 750 for each . $100. Minimum cost 400 for $10 to $50. For sale at Banks, Railway Express offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES - =_
New Radio Series of U. S.
Navy Fighting Heroes
A new transcribed radio series will be heard on WSBT beginning Friday, Sept. 3, at 9:30 p.m.
The program is developed under the supervision of the United States Navy Department with a purpose to acquaint modem Navy men and the American public with the great moments in the Naval careers of men who made the United States Navy our first bulwark of defense... a Navy that has never known defeat and apparently from reports in the Pacific, doesn’t intend to begin now.
It brings to light many little known facts about our Naval heroes of the past.... facts not found in history books .... facts which point up personal, intimate characteristics of our Naval heroes rather than the broad outlines of the battles they fought and won.
The autthenticity of all details of the series has been checked by Captain H. A. Baldridge (U.S.N. Ret.), Curator of the Naval Academy Museum.
“Fighting Heroes of the United States Navy” • is very important because it tells the true stories of the men who have built the traditions of the United States Navy in battle, and who by their glorious examples of heroism and devotion to America,'set the pattern of conduct for Navy men of today.
These programs will be sponsored jointly by Gilbert’s and Max Adler of South Bend.
Band Concert Tonight;
Glee Club a Success
Last Friday evening the Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, gave its first recital of the semester. More than 1,000 spectators, including students and South Bend residents, heard the outdoor program.
An equally large number is expected tonight at 7:15 when the Notre Dame Band will give a concert. In the past the .• band concerts have proved very enjoyable.. The University has planned to have a concert every Friday evening, to which the public is invited.
The Band is directed by Mr. H. Lee Hope, and this week his careful selection of numbers should make as interesting a program.
Among the songs that will be played are, “On The Trail” from Grand Canyon Suite by Grofe, “The Song of the Bombardier,” “General Douglas MacArthur March,” “Transcendance Overture,” and “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” by Jerome Kem. In this last number a saxophone solo will be rendered by John Boyle, New York, and a trumpet solo by Dick Ped-rotty, Pennsylvania.
NROTC Tennis Pairings
Pairings for the U. A. A.’s tennis singles tournament have been made, and the first round will match Joe Lauck and Bill Bracken, Bob Maurer and Gordon Forester, and Jim O’Connor and Frank Crowley. These matches must be played by Wednesday, August 25.
Ed Caparo, number four man on the Notre Dame varsity, has been seeded number one, and is followed by Roy Grumbine, Bill Moore, and Bud Seghers.
Nineteen entries have been received. Trophies will go to the winner and runner-up.
ROTC Nine Wins Two Games
The NROTC baseball team won two extra-inning games over the week-end, defeating Carroll 9-7, in a 12-inning tussle, and Dillon 5-4, in the ninth of a scheduled seven-frame affair.
Al Wade received credit for both wins. He relieved Hank Frailey in the ninth of the first game and he pitched the entire second game.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
“Sure it's a swell Arrow Tie— but what ivill the Admiral say?”
What does anyone say when he sees an Arrow Tie? He says, “It’s swell!”—For several reasons. Arrows are good-looking, in smart patterns and neat stripes. Arrows are made well, with a special lining cut on the bias to resist wrinkles, and to see that they make perfect knots. Arrows are made of fine fabrics —wear longer. For Army and Navy men as well as civilians—at your Arrow dealers. Si and SI.50.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
★ BUY WAK BONDS AND STAMPS *
14
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
Calumet All-Stars Win Under the Arc Lights
By Joe Fahey
The Notre Dame varsity baseball nine dropped their second game of the season Saturday in Hammond, Ind. They took the field in their first arc light contest of the year against the Calumet All-Stars. The Stars, though getting fewer hits, capitalized on errors and bases on balls to outscore the Irish 11-10. The lights were a new experience for some' of the boys, but they took it in stride. The game was a charity affair with the opposition made up of an aggregation of stars from the Industrial League of that section.
Andy Phillip was the victim for the first time this season. He allowed only eight hits, but errors and walks were fatal, especially in the big second inning. In that stanza the stars laced together two doubles, a single and walk plus three errors to net 'themselves six runs. Janice, playing left field for Calumet, slammed out a double in the second and another in the sixth to vie for the home team batting honors "with shortstop Roluns, who had three singles.
Once again it was Bob Klien, Buffalo, N. Y. sailor, who led the Irish attack with three more hits to add to his collection. Jack Mayo broke into the picture with a pair of doubles and a single.
The Irish made a bid for victory in the seventh and eighth innings, but fell one run shy of. their goal.
Score by innings:
Notre Dame  100 400 320—10 : 11 4 Calumet ....... 160 004 OOx—11 8 1
Batteries: Phillip, Sheehan; Diehe, Hrena.
Sailor Samson Wins City Title
By Dan Reardon
In the City Championship tournament of South Bend, Notre Dame’s tennis stars walked away with top awards.
First place honors were captured by Charles Samson when he defeated Louis Chreist in a sensational comeback. After losing the first two sets, Samson settled down and became his usual self. With smashing serves and powerful backhand shots he took the following three sets. The scores of these gruelling sets were: 3-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3, and 6-3. Samson was a tennis star at Ohio State University this past year.
In the Championship doubles matches Notre Dame’s Samson and Faught won over Koehler and Pennell in a four set match, 6-3, 2-6, 6-0, and 6-4.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Badin Hall
N. D. Jewelry and Official Navy -• Stationery and Navy Jewelry and
Toilet Articles Supplies Greeting Cards—Souvenirs
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJ).S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY . X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
.	825 Sherland Building .
L. E. Fisher, MJ).	M. J. Thomton. MJ).
15
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SI. 00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
EMERGENCY
NEEDS
Men of the Navy. . . George Wyman & Company's Service Men's Canteen is at your service! Wyman's have a complete selection of service men's needs — for now or later!
Surveys prove the sewing kit a real necessity on your traveling list. Complete and compact kit, sketched—....$1.00
Soft, sturdy, comfortable money belt has three pockets for bills and change. Zipper closing, adjustable.$1.65
WYMAN’S
DO YOU DIG IT?
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address : College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.