Two
...but the squirrels were disgusted
TELEPHONE engineers had to find a way to stop gray squirrels gnawing holes in the lead sheath of telephone cables. Even a tiny hole may let in moisture—short circuit the wires—and put a number of telephones out of service temporarily.
Many ideas were tried, but the squirrels gnawed on. Finally the cables were painted with black asphaltum and sprinkled with sand. The gnawing stopped.
Not a major engineering problem, to be sure. But thousands of strange little problems, too, have been solved to assure you the world’s most reliable telephone service.
Why not call your folks more often? For lowest ra'es to most points, call station-fo-station after 7 P. M. daily or any time Sunday.
BELL TELEPHONE
COLLEGE PARADE
Because of the danger of possible currency inflation Stanford University officialy received court permission recently to convert part of its trust funds into common stock. The testimony of former President Herbert Hoover, a Stanford alumnus, was recognized by the presiding superior judge. This testimony of Mr. Hoover’s pointed out that endowed colleges, of which Stanford is an example, have a great portion of their investments in bonds, real estate, and similar securities all of which would be “adversely affected by inflation.”
The importance of this decision lies in the fact that, unless the decision is reversed, the way is now open .for endowed institutions of learning to rearrange their financial set-up. As a consequence of this there is a possibility of change in stock and bond markets because of the immense amount of money in such endowments.
—o—
Two Ohio college publications have lately adopted something decidedly new in the way of conducting their respective newspapers. The schools are Kent State University and Akron and the innovation is the exchange of the complete staffs, with the exception of the business staff, so that for one edition the scribes of the Kent Stater will completely handle the Akron Buchtelite and the reporters of the latter publication wil turn out the Kent State University paper.
—o—
At last we are consoled! Despite Hearst and the scathing opinions of college students mentality expressed in his papers we have found a defender among the “gentlemen of the press” namely, Walter Winchell. In reply to a letter from Mr. Ian Carmichael, ’36, Managing Editor of the Colgate Maroon asking his opinion on the question “What is the matter with the colleges of today and the college men in these institutions?” Mr. Winchell replied “So far as I’m concerned, there is nothing the matter with colleges or collegiates. I have never been in a college, or seen one, sir, so naturally I wouldn’t know.”. . . Now some skeptics might disdainfully remark that even Winchell offers some reservations on colleges and things pertaining to collegiate life so we add to our list of defenders the name of Mr. H. I. Phillips of the New York Sun who had these kind words to offer in reply to the question of Mr. Carmichael of Colgate: “Nothing is the matter with colleges of today . except what has always been the matter: not enough emphasis is placed on the fact that a man has to be out of college at least six years before he can be sure he is a college man.”
The Scholastic
THE TOWER OF SACRED HEART CHURCH
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191&J
Volume LXIX	April 24, 1936	No. 22
INTERHALL CONTEST TO SELECT RADIO TALENT
Engineers Dance Tonight To Music of Ben Pollack
AMATEUR ACTS TO BE CHOSEN FROM HALLS TO COMPETE IN FINAL TALENT CONTEST
The engineers and their guests will dance tonight to the music of Ben Pollack and his orchestra at the an-
Paulist Choir Concert. . .
Eliminations Begin in May
nual Engineers’ club formal to be
held at the Palais Royale. Dancing
John Loritscii
will be from 9:00 o’clock until 12 with 12:30 permissions.
Samuel R. Reed, a civil engineer, is general chairman of this year’s dance. His guest for the evening will be Miss-Helen Rhomback of St. Marys. John
Loritsch is president of the club.
Ticket sale for the dance closed Wednesday with nearly every ticket being taken. The price of the bids is $2.00.
The committees are as follows: Music, Frank Joyce, chairman, John Odenback and Norman Conley; tickets, Richard Schmidt, chairman, John Gorman, Joe McIntosh, and George Geyer; decorations, George McNeile, chairman, Thomas Gorman, Louis Crystal, and Francis Martin; patrons, Philip DeBruyne, chairman, Walter Bernard, and Harold Stine.
Other committees are’: Publicity, Ben Miley, chairman, Cornelius McCarthy, and Edward Epler; programs, William Darcy, chairman, John Norton, Paul Mosele, and Roger Sullivan; arrangements, Ray Herrly, chairman, Ralph Kaiser, Frank Shapiro; reception, George Binder, chairman, Thomas Carney, J. Dennis Swords, and Fred Gast.
Columbia’s famed Seth Low College will be discontinued when the last of the classes now enrolled graduates in 1938.
Jazz for the public schools is the recommendation of Dr. Harold G. Campbell, New York City’s superintendent of schools.
The Paulist Choristers of Chicago will preesnt their third annual concert in Washington Hall tonight at 8:00 o’clock. The choir will be directed by the Rev. Eugene O’Malley, C.S.P., and will feature several religious selections.
This great choral group is composed of 75 members, men and boys, whose ages range from 6 to 60. Each year since 1934, the choristers have been warmly acclaimed at Notre Dame.
In the course of its first concert at the University, the group made itself, unforgettable with its superb offering, Palestrina’s “Sanctus,” with which it will open its concert tonight. The program will contain several sacred numbers by Bach and one secular song by Brahms in addition to a number of other selections. Handel’s aria, “Judas Machabeus,” will be sung by Frank Dunford. Walter Curran, another of the soloists, will vocalize “Ah! Moon of My Delight,” by Lehmann. The choir will be accompanied by Robert Sheehan at the piano.
A piano recital will be given by Arthur C. Davidson and by Hugo W. Melchione in Washington Hall on Thursday evening, April 30, at 8:00 o’clock.
FITZGERALD GIFT
The Hon. Desmond Fitzgerald, guest professor of politics at the University during the first semester, has recently made a gift to the Notre Dame library to serve as a remembrance of his visit. The donation consists of two volumes of the Irish-English and English-Irish dictionary, and three volumes from the library of Daniel O’Connell, bearing the autograph of the Great Emancipator. One of these volumes is a first edition of Moore’s Laila Rookh.
By Gregory Byrnes
An Interhall Radio Talent contest, designed to discover and stimulate student talen for the campus radio station was announced this week by
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Announces Talent Contest.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty director of radio activities.
The contest will be conducted upon an interhall basis, with each hall having its own committee to select the three or four best acts in the hall and form them into a 15 minute show. The selection of the acts as well as that of a master of ceremonies will be up to the hall committees. There are no restrictions as to the type of entertainment that may be presented provided it is representative of student talent. Vocalists and instrumentalists, singly or in groups, dramatic artists, imitators, tap dancers — in fact any act that is entertaining and representative will be eligible.
Fourteen groups (13 halls and the off-campus students) have already been assigned dates and will appear two to a program during the first three weeks of May. The four best halls will then combine in a one hour final program. The winning hall will receive a silver loving cup or plaque (Continued on Page 7)
April 24, 193 6
Five
K. OF C. TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY;
JACK RUSSELL’S ORCHESTRA TO PLAY
Monogram Club Prepares For Annual Absurdities
Announce Ban On Corsages
By Robert L. Grogan
Jack Russell and his orchestra from Chicago will furnish the music and entertainment for the annual Knights of Columbus Formal Ball which is to be held next Friday night, May 1. Chairman Henry Dendler announced that the ticket sale will begin Monday, the tickets being priced at $2.00.
A novel idea, will be introduced this year in that Russell will compose his program completely of requests
■ JACK RUSSELL
made from the dance floor. In addition to this the band will present a brief show of its own making, each of the members of the orchestra being indirtdual entertainers.
Chairman Dendler also announced that the sending of corsages will be absolutely banned for the K. of C. Ball. The dance will be held at the Palais Royale with the usual disciplinary regulations in effect. Supporting committees and chairmen are: Thomas Foy, tickets; Harold Drueck-er, music; Joseph Schmidt, patrons; Robert L. Grogan, publicity; Francis Deery, programs; Carmi Belmont, reception; and Robert Cavanaugh, decorations.
The annual K. of C. picnic will be held on Saturday, May 16. The location of this year’s picnic and other plans in this connection were dis-
Six
Editorships...
Applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of The Scholastic, The Dome, and Scrip, for the schoolyear 1936-37, will be received by the Faculty Board of Publications during the next two weeks.
Applicants must state in writing their qualifications, experience, academic rating, and qualitative average. Letters should b e addressed and mailed to Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than 4:00 o’clock in the afternoon of Saturday, May 9.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
CAVANAUGH PRIZE
An award of $100 to be known as The Father Cavanaugh Prize will be awarded to the student submitting the best biographical sketch of any person, priest, brother, sister, or layman who has contributed to the upbuilding of Notre Dame.
Essays to be entered in the contest will be judged by a committee of the faculty chosen for the purpose, it was announced this week by Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on Scholarships and Awards.
“The purpose of the award is to secure for posterity a series of monographs that will suitably memorialize the persons who, in high station or low, have contributed some notable service to the University,” Father McDonald said.
Essays must combine literary excellence and accurate history. If none of the essays submitted meet these standards, the prize will not be awarded.
Entries are to be submitted to the chairman on Scholarships and Awards at 239 Morrissey Hall, not later than 6 p.m., May 11.
cussed at the regular council meeting last Wednesday evening.
On Sunday, May 17, the Knights will hold an exemplification of the second and third degrees, this being . the second initiation of the year/ Approximately fifty candidates will be inducted into the order at this time. The election of officers for the 1936-37 school year will be held on Monday, May 18. Plans are under consideration for a new system of balloting to be introduced in this election.
“The Absurdities,” popular annual stage presentation of the Notre Dame Monogram men, under the able direction of Paul Rubly, concluded its opening period of rehearsals this week. The show this year is scheduled to go on the boards of Washington Hall on the evenings of May 3 and 4. Tickets will be priced at 25 cents for general admission seats, and 35 cents for reserved seats. The musical score for the show will be handled by Professor Joseph Casasanta thus insuring a background of tuneful rhythm.	.
The chorus, always a highlight in these shows, promises to be bigger than ever. This year’s group of chorines, aggregating three quarters of a ton, will prance, sway, and step
Frank Kopczak Shakes a fancy foot.
through three numbers that are tentatively known as a Japanese dance, a “Truckin’’ number, and a modernistic ballet. The chorus will be ( made up entirely of Irish gridiron stalwarts and will include Steve Miller, Fred Carideo, “Pepper” Martin, Frank Kopczak, Larry Danbom, Johnny Lautar, Bill Shakespeare, and Wayne Millner. The baseball squad will contribute the talents of two of its stars, Matt Thernes and “Curly” Regan, who will add to the general hilarity by performing an adagio dance. The singing will be handled by Don Elser, “Sunny” Church, and Joe O’Neil.	'
Bill Steinkemper and Arch Gott are teamed together in a witty and fast talking crazy question act. Two more unsually clever and amusing skits will be offered by Bucky Jordan, George Ireland, and Leo McFarlane who present a cafeteria skit; and “Hank” Pojman, John McKenna, and “Sunny” Church show how a firm of Communist printers handles its business. One of the best features of the show occurs in this skit when the actors render their parody on the famous “Internationale.”
Fifteen students of Hardin-Simmons University face dismissal because they showed disapproval of the Texas Tech band with rotten eggs and stones.
The Scholastic
Professor William Farrell
Inaugurates Lecture Series
A new series of five faculty lectures on popular subjects was inaugurated Tuesday evening, April 21, in the auditorium of the Engineering building, when William E. Farrell, professor of History, discussed the various sidelights of the “African Muddle,” in an impartial survey of the Italo-Ethiopian crisis.
The Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., in charge of the lecture series, announced that the second lecture would be delivered next Tuesday, April 28, when James A. Reyniers, assistant professor of Biology who has become nationally prominent as the first scientist to develop germ-free guinea pigs, will discuss “Some Aspects of Disease.”
Daniel C. O’Grady, associate professor of philosophy and author of a philosophical book, Cosmology — A Cross Section, which is widely read, will lecture on “Philosophy and Modern Life” on May 5.
On May 7, Andrew A. Smithberger, associate professor of English and co-author on a textbook on poetry, will present a thorough criticism of the works of Edwin Arlington Robinson, who has been acclaimed as one of the outstanding modem American poets.
The series will conclude on May 12 with the lecture entitled, “Contribution of Chemistry to Health, Wealth, and Thinking,” which will be delivered by Henry B. Froning, professor of Chemistry.
BENGAL BOUTS BUDGET
RECEIPTS:	_
General tickets ----------------------$446.17
Patron tickets ----------------------- 105.50
Advertising .........................   42.50
Total returns .................... $594.17
expenses:	_
Publications Office ----------$ 3.25
Printing -------------------- 24.48
Dentist ..................    12.00
Berman’s Sport Shop --------- 19.40
Handling of patron letters -- 10.00
Referee’s expenses ----------- 25.00	•
Boxing Gloves ---------------- 4.00
Miscellaneous —--------------- 9.10
X-Ray Examination -----------  5.00
*Kelly’s Sport Shop ----------- 57.96
Total expenses -----------------$170.19
profit :
Total receipts -----------------------$594.17
Total expenses ----------------------- 170.19
Balance ___________________________$423.98
* For runner-up sweaters and trunks. Winners’ sweaters donated.
The average Columbia University senior, almost 21 years old and weighing 153 pounds, is slightly antipathetic to the New Deal, would rather win a Phi Beta Kappa key than an athletic award and would not fight in a war conducted outside the United States, a recent survey revealed.
FREDDY MARTIN AND HIS ORCHESTRA ENGAGED FOR THE SENIOR BALL MAY 8
Lecturer
Professor William Farrell
Discusses Ethiopian Situation.
MUSICIANS BROADCAST
The Notre Dame Glee Club and Band will broadcast over a coast-to-coast network of the Columbia Broadcasting System tomorrow at 1 o’clock, C.S.T.
The program will originate in the University gymnasium and will be broadcast through the facilities of radio station WSBT in South Bend. For half an hour the Band and Glee club will entertain a nationwide audience in this broadcast to be made at the request of the Columbia Broadcasting Co. Both of the musical units will perform under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of 'music at the University.
RADIO CONTEST
(Continued from Page 5)
and the men who make up the team will also receive valuable individual prizes. The judging is to be by audience ballot and by a committee of radio entertainment. The audience ballot will count 40 percent and the judges’ decision 60 percent. This method of judging was adopted to make certain that the awards will be made on the basis of team performance and not upon individual merits.
All acts must be submitted to the committee before being presented on the air. Because of copyright restrictions all music must also be submitted for approval. Popular music other than that of the “swing” type is quite acceptable provided that its use is not restricted by the copyright owners.
The wealth of student talent that is available as shown in past Linnet shows and the ■widespread interest that the announcement of the contest has aroused indicates that the Radio Talent contest will be one of the most popular of spring activities.
Hall committees are now receiving
$8 For Ball And Tea Dance
By Louis Da Pra
Freddy Martin, whose fourteen- -piece band has become a national sensation recently through its Columbia radio broadcasts and Brunswick recordings, has been definitely selected to play for this year’s Senior Ball, which is to be held Friday night, May 8, in the Palais Royale.
Chairman William John Schmuhl, a senior in the College of Commerce, from Michigan City, Indiana, announced that the price of tickets for both the Senior Ball and the Tea Dance had been set at §8.00, which is the lowest price in the history of the Senior Ball.
The Tea Dance is to be held the following Saturday afternoon from four o’clock to six-thirty at the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, the traditional Notre Dame locale, but as yet no orchestra has been announced.
Martin, once a saxophonist in Guy Lombai’do’s orchestra, is currently appearing at Andrew Karsas’ Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, after a long stay at St. Regis Roof in New York. Freddy has just been signed for the most famous dance spot in the country, the Cocoanut Grove at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles.
He first came into prominence several years ago while at the Hotel Bossert in Brooklyn, followed by a long engagement at the famous Roosevelt Grill, where, he outdrew the Lombardo organization, and from there to the Savoy-Plaza in New York.
Martin and his orchestra made a distinct radio hit in their Columbia coast-to-coast “Open House at Vicks” program, which has been renewed twice, and on the Aragon-Trianon dance time over WGN, Chicago.
His band is featured by the Mar-tinettes, a trio composed of Wes Vaughan, Jack Condon, and Aimer Feldkamp. Feldkamp is the baritone vocalist; Terry Shand is the blues singer, and Eddie Schaaf does the comic numbers.
Schmuhl also announced that some distinctive favor has been secured for the affair through the Balfour Company of Attleboro, Massachusetts.
entries. Hall spirit would indicate that everyone with talent will take part not only to win a prize for his hall and for himself but also to gain valuable experience in radio entertainment.
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
Seven
Trials for Breen Medal
Set for Monday, May 11
The Breen Medal Contest for oratory will be held during the week of May 11, it was announced this week by Professor William J. Coyne, head of the speech department. Preliminaries will be held during the afternoon and evening of Monday, May 11, and the finals will be held later in the same week.
This contest is open to any student of the University. Speeches must be original and should not exceed ten minutes in length. Those desiring to enter this contest should notify any member of the speech department immediately. May 1 is the final date for entry.
. A freshmen oratorical contest will be held during the afternoon of Wednesday, May 13. This contest is open to any freshman in the University although freshmen may enter the Breen Medal contest. A prize of ten dollars is to be awarded to the winner of the freshmen contest. Entrees in this contest are subject to the above quali-cations.
Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier, negative debating team of Notre Dame, made an Eastern tour following the Easter holidays to meet the debating teams of Wayne University of Detroit and the University of Buffalo in no-decision debates.
LIBRARIANS' CONVENTION
Mr. Paul R. Byrne, University librarian and vice-president of the Catholic Library association, presided at a meeting on April 15, during the annual Association convention in St. Louis, Mo.
Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C., former Notre Dame librarian and now holding a similar * post at St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, also presided at one of the convention sessions.
ITALIAN CLUB
The Italian Club will hold a regular meeting on Thursday, April 30. Discussions concerning the coming elections of the club will be in order and all members are requested to attend, f
It has been announced that an Italian movie has been offered to the club for presentation on the campus. The club invites students of Notre Dame interested in a tour of Italy this summer to see any officer of the club to secure information concerning such a trip.
Eight
Samuel Ross Reed, chairman of tonight’s Engineer Ball, comes from Waynesburg, Penn. . . . Spends his summer vacation improving state highways and bridging rivers ... Is one of the surviving civics in the Engineering School . . . Will be around till August to get his degree.
Is at present promoting dates for all who buy tickets for his affair . . . He’s still hunting for a date for himself tonight ... A bad leg last semester didn’t cramp his style ... A car used to pick him up and drive him around to fulfill social obligations. . .
Double crosses friends occasionally by dating their gals . . . Played in two interhall football games last fall. . . . First one finished with him in the infirmary with a broken rib . . .
Second with him back in the infirmary with an infected foot. . . Roomie Bernie McCormick prevailed upon him to give it up ... As roomies they argue continually, especially about Metallurgy, ‘Slippery, Sam’s favorite topic. . . .
Sam’s room is decorated with actual friends not movie stars ... A Beulah from Emerson College in Boston was an admirer until she found Harvard was so close. . . He has been losing lots of hair recently and is worried over his premature baldness. . . . Favorite hobby is loafing . . . Stayed around Easter to touch up his thesis but spent most of his time touching the bed . . . Hopes to build bridges when he finishes. . . .
SYMPATHY
The Scholastic extends its sym-’ pathy to the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell/ C.S.C., vice-president of the University, on the recent death of his mother.
McBride Estate Donates
Valuable First Editions
Another valuable collection of autographed first editions has been added to the Notre Dame library through a gift recently made by Mrs. Florence Daly McBride from the estate of her late husband, Eugene R. McBride, ’16, of Pittsburgh.
The collection, which was selected from the McBride library by Notre Dame’s librarian, Paul Byrne, contain works by such authors as Father Tabb, Louise Imogen Guiney, Eugene Fields, Charles Warren Stoddard, Christopher Morley, Paul Dunbar, and William Drummond.
Perhaps the most valuable book of the McBride donation is a first edition of Poems by the Rev. John B. Tabb. In the fly leaf of the book is a holograph copy of “The Difference,” one of the poet’s favorite works.
Other outstanding editions are Troubled Heart, by Charles Warren Stoddard, a former English professor at Notre Dame; a first edition of Songs at the Start and Nine Sonnets, by Louise Imogen Guiney; Sonnets in Verse, by Hilaire Belloc; The Powder of Sympathy, by Christopher Morley; Later Poems, by Alice Meynell; A Lover’s Diary, by Gilbert Parker; Johnnie Corteau and Other Poems, by William Drummond; Black Spirits— White, by Ralph Adams Cram.
O’HARA APPOINTMENT
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, has been named a member of a jury of eminent educators who will select the winners in an essay contest conducted by International Business Machines Cor-■ poration. The contest is open to all third and fourth year students in public, parochial, or private high schools throughout the United States.
Four years at any * college of the winner’s choice is the first prize to be given for the best essay on “How Education Develops the Power to Think.” The essays are to be judged primarily upon how well the students have expressed their own ability to think as revealed by originality, skill in handling, and adherence to the ' fundamental principles of writing.
Besides Father O’Hara the committee includes: Dr. Aurelia H. Reinhardt, president of Mills College; Dr. • Clarence A. Bamour, president of Brown University; Dr. Ray L. Wilbur, president of Stanford University, and Dr. Edward C. Elliott, president of Purdue University.
The Scholastic
N. D. Economists Speak At Chicago Conference
Paul Larner a junior in the
By John Hurley
The Mid West Collegiate conference, the initial gathering of its kind, was held at the Knickerbocker hotel in Chicago Tuesday, April 14. Five colleges and universities, including Notre Dame, were represented a t the conference. Local students who took an active part • in the gathering were Paul Larmer, Justin O’Toole, Vincent Murphy, Charles Meyers and Thomas Pendergast.
Vincent Murphy, College of Arts and
Letters, who acted as general chairman of the session, opened the meeting with a paper entitled, “The Significance of This Conference.” Murphy pointed out the evils in the economic system, and suggested steps that must be taken to remedy these ills.
The conference was composed of papers on vital questions in the economic world and panel discussions presided over by professors in economics from. Notre Dame, Lake Forest, and De Paul. James E. Armstrong, local Alumni secretary, extended greetings .to those assembled after Miss Ruth Kenny of De Paul university, the presiding officer, had called the session to order.
The first panel discussion was on the “Social Security Act” with Prof. Louis F. Buckley of Notre Dame acting as chairman. Student leaders in this discussion were Catherine Shannon of Rosary College, Charles Meyers of Notre Dame and Edward Jamieson of De Paul.
Preceding the next panel discussion were papers by Miss Mary Carmody of Rosary, William Seguin of Loyola, and Thomas Pendergast of Notre Dame who spoke on the question, “Is Capitalism Doomed?”
Professor Ernest A. Johnson of Lake Forest College was chairman of the panel discussion, “Is the Federal Government Justly Charged With Wasteful Expenditure?” Miss Dorothy O’Donnell of Mundelein College, Paul Larmer of Notre Dame, and George Martin of Lake Forest led this discussion.
The final panel discussion was on the question, “Has the Supreme Court Usurped its powers in Recent Decisions?” Mr. Cyril O’Donnell, professor of economics at De Paul, acted as chairman, while the student leaders were Miss Dorothy Mills of Rosary, Justin O’Toole of Notre Dame, and Miss Ruth Quirk of Mundelein College.
The Conference was concluded with
OBSERVE THIRTEENTH ANNUAL CELEBRATION OF UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
“Loyalty to God, loyalty to country, loyalty to family, loyalty to friends, above all, loyalty to principle —these are the necessary elements that go to make up loyalty to Notre Dame,” said the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, in a coast-to-coast broadcast over the National Broadcasting systems in celebration of the 13th annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday night.
With Father O’Hara on this broadcast, which originated at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., were the Most Rev. John McNamara, auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore, and Frank C. Walker. From the campus radio studio, Bernard J. Voll, national alumni president joined the hook-up to deliver an address on the program, and the Moreau Seminary choir sang several musical selections.
Originated in Answer to Demands
As part of the program a large group of St. Joseph Valley alumni attended a smoker held in the University’s lay faculty dining hall. A double piano team of Clarence Harding and Francis Lavengood of South Bend entertained along with Kevin Kehoe and Carlos A. de Landero who gave a superb fencing exhibition.
A local broadcast, with the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., as master of ceremonies, marked the next part of the local celebration. Participating in this broadcast were: the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta; Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics; and the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
Universal Notre Dame Night originated in 1925 to satisfy reuests of former “Fighting Irish” students for an annual reunion, for the many who find it impossible to return to the campus during Commencement week.
The University of Wisconsin has more than $20,000 in unclaimed library deposits.
Of job failures, 65 per cent are due to personal peculiarities rather than incompetency, says Dr. Blake Crider of Fenn College.
a diner at the Knickerbocker which all the representatives attended. Plans were made for another such conference to be held at some later date which will include a larger number of colleges and universities. It is believed that these conferences will give the college student a better insight into current economic problems and aid him in finding remedies to solve them.
Cavanaugh To Speak
At De Pauw University
The Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of the department of sociology, will read a paper this afternoon before the meeting of the Indiana Academy of Social Scientists at De Pauw University in Greencastle, Indiana.
Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Represents Notre Dame at DePauw.
The paper, “The Neglect of Some Social Processes by Sociologists” will offer a plea for better cooperation between Catholics and non-Catholics in problems of a social nature and stress the fact that much of the misunderstanding that exists between the two groups is actually the result of a lack of clear and definite knowledge of the position of the other party. It is because of such confusion, Father Cavanaugh maintains, that accusations of narrow mindedness are so frequently heard.
RADIO CALENDAR’
Monday, April 27
4:30—The Readers’ Spotlight; 7:00 —Faculty Lecture by Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., entitled “Some Modern Errors in Psychology”; 7:45 Professor Willard L. Groom assisted by students in the music department on some phase of the appreciation of music.
Tuesday, April 28
4:39—“The Speech We Use” by a member of the Speech department; 7:45—Headline Personalities.
Wednesday, April 29
4:30—“Stories of the Classics,” John Marbach of the Patricians on Dante; 7:45—“You, The Defendant,” Law program.
Thursday, April 30
4:30—“Athletics,” interview with George Meagher, track captain; 7:45 —“History Between the Lines,” by George Morris and Tom Kavanaugh.
Friday, May 1
3:15—The Scholastic of the Air— news and sports digest; 7:45—“Science at Work,” Al Hiegel and Ed Kenefake on X-rays.
Nine
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
Dire -
Hammond Student Wins
Second I.C.O. Contest
By John A.
Ed. Note: In view of the current interest regarding the more popular types of music, the selection of orchestras for campus dances, etc., we present the first of a series of articles on popular music. In this issue, several of the outstanding recordings recently made by leading bands are reviewed. Another article in this series will appear in the near future.
—o—
Judging from the rec-T ords received, Victor has induced most of the musical talent in the western hemisphere to make sweet and hot noises. Benny Goodman, Guy Lomhardo, Tommy Dorsey, Ray Noble, Paul Whiteman — nobody gives them the gong.
Benny Goodman fans will be interested in the Swing King’s new commercial program. It’s on WMAQ, at 9 o’clock every Tuesday. Incidentally, the band -will play at the Palais Roy-ale on May 3. It has also been signed for Purdue and Indiana University dances on its tour.
If you like Southern music, done by' an artist, try Willard Robeson’s orchestra, on WSBT, at 10 o’clock every Tuesday. Willard’s lazy voice will please you, and even if you’ve never been farther south than Hoboken, it’s worth the trouble.
The Panic Is On} ......Fats Waller Sugar Rose f
The fun doesn’t begin until Fats sings. In his singular style, he moans a distinctly Waller-ish number. If you like him, you’ll welcome it. Some sweet guitar helps tilings. Last chorus is a reversion to jungle tempo, and our boy Fats gets hysterical.
Sugar Rose starts off with a tinkling, restrained effect. As a tune, it is catchy, and the band seems to enjoy playing. Second chorus is mean; then Fats steps in to clinch things. Waller’s men show more cooperation than ever, but always leave the spotlight to Fats, and rightly so.
Basin Street Blues 1 Ben Goodman When Buddha Smiles)
Basin Street isn’t a fast tune, but the Goodman gang gives it more genuine swing than most bands. Benny’s clarinet floats through a chorus; Joe Harris proves himself doubly valuable by his pleasant vocal and masterful trombone work. Save your
Gillespie
money for this one. It’s an old classic made new.
Buddha would have smiled on this, although it suffers in comparison with Basin Street. As always, the clarinet is excellent. A rathei* heavy, definite rhythm that starts your fingers drumming. You can’t go wrong.
Roll Up The Carpet \ Ray Noble Rock Your Cares Awayf
Noble’s English band could teach the American model plenty, if this disc, recorded in Europe, is a reliable example. In the first record, the third chorus is one of the cleverest you could want. It’s a swift change of pace in which the brass blares and steps up the tempo. Then it slows down to its former pace and ends on a sweet note. AI Bowlly’s crooning is rather lifeless. A mediocre tune, made exceptional by the band.
The reverse, also made in Europe, plays a somewhat strident brass first chorus that is not appealing, but a string introduction and a fast windup will leave you smiling. The band has a lot more punch than the exRainbow Room-ers. Al Bowlly is uninspiring, but maybe he was saving himself foi* America.
Gotta Go To Work Again } T Every Minute of the Hour]' '
The Dorsey Trio does much for No. 1- by the peppy vocal. Tommy’s crew takes it easy until the last chorus ; then they loosen up and ride. The lyrics are clever and the rhythm somewhat jerky.
Every Minute isn’t much in itself, but the band works hard on it. Tommy’s trombone slips and slides to glory. Edyth Wright sings carefully but not brilliantly. It’s slow and sweet;— something for spring evenings.
Chester Kiciak, representing Cath-■ olic Central High school of Hammond, Indiana, won the annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest sponsored by the Wranglers, the University honorary forensic society, which was held in the auditorium of the Engineering building, Sunday afternoon, April 5.
For his prize-winning effort, “The Right to Die,” Kiciak was awarded the Joseph P. McNamara trophy, donated by the deputy attorney-general of Indiana, and a gold medal, which were presented to him by Eugene F. Malloy, president of the Wranglers.
Jerome O’Dowd of Central Catholic of Fort Wayne, the 1935 I. C. 0. winner, placed second in this year’s competition with his oration, “Youth and the International Ideal,” and Charles Kosinski of St. Mary’s, Anderson won third prize with the oration, “Preserve the Constitution.”
John Grawnonski of St. Hedwige’s, South Bend, William Minges of Catholic Central, South Bend, and James Spychalski of St. Mary’s, Michigan City were the other entrants, and also were recipients of medal awards.
The judges of the contest were the Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant professor of Economics and Sociology; Professor Ronald C. Cox, of the speech department; and Eugene F. Malloy, a senior in the College of Commerce.
Charles F. Meyers, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was the Chairman of the Wranglers’ annual affair which was officially inaugurated Saturday night, April 4, with a banquet tendered the participants in the Lay-Faculty dining hall.
Toastmaster of the banquet was the veteran varsity debater, Robert Schmelzle, and the principal address was. delivered by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, who emphasized the value of contests of a like nature.
On the following morning, Robert Heywood and Robert C. Weaver, members of the Wranglers, conducted the guests on a tour of the campus, visiting all places of interest.
MONOGRAM BALL
With Charley Agnew’s melodic orchestra playing in the traditional Palais Royale setting, 175 couples danced at this year’s Monogram Ball on Thursday, April 16.
Chairman Fred Carideo’s committees had transformed the dance hall into a colorful display of collegiate pennants representing the schools met by the Irish athletes.
The Scholastic
Ten
Philosophers to Conduct First Formal Discussion
Defending the existence of God and His real distinction from the Universe will he the thesis for the first public philosophical disputation to be held in Washington Hall on Thursday, April 29, under the direction of the Department of Philosophy.
Formal presentation of the question will be treated during the initial portion of the discussion. Thomas Meagher will defend the thesis with John Britton, Daniel McLaughlin and Robert McDonough attacking the argument as objectors. George Moriar-ity will be general chairman of the disputation.
Following the formal discussion Edward Owens will give a brief sum-
Rev. Thomas Brennan
His students will debate.
mary of “The Integration of Scholastic Philosophy,” and John Cashin will speak on the mechanics and history of the formal disputation.
After the arguments have been heard the meeting will be thrown open to the audience. The Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C., will formulate any objection voiced by the audience and request a resolution of any such objections.
Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C., and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., have both been active in the preparation of the disputation. It is the hope of the department of philosophy that this type of discussion will prove popular and so beneficial that it will be continued in future years.
EDUCATORS CONVENE
Two members of the University faculty attended the annual meeting of the National Catholic Educational Association at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City from April 13 to 17.
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is a member of the national executive committee of the association, and Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C. will attend the meetings of the graduate departments.
During the following week, April 23-25, Father Cunningham will attend the Spring meeting of the North Central Association at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago.
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
the week
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Had a stranger, unacquainted with Notre Dame’s tradition in athletics, visited the campus last Saturday, he would have had no trouble whatever in determining the university’s favorite sport. On Cartier field the baseball team was beating Chicago University for its second straight victory of the season. Outside the fence on the Brownson gridiron, the football squad was engaged in a spring practice session. While only a handful of spectators was watching an intercollegiate, varsity baseball game,. a huge crowd lined both sides of Brownson field merely to watch a football squad practice. Incidentally, we’d like to know where the football men acquired those scarlet jersies. Could it be that the game wasn’t the only loss Ohio State suffered when the Irish discovered Columbus last fall? So the Bucks even lost their shirts 1
•
A new fad has just achieved popularity among Notre Dame men. According to certain local sages and observers who always have their collective finger on the public pulse, this latest whim of fashion has been a nationwide craze for some time. No one has been able to inform us what the exact scientific term for* it is—at any rate, it’s some form of mimicry. For instance, the most sober and serious philosophy major, or law student, or even professor, will approach you, whirl his hand about as if winding an imaginary crank handle in the side of his head, slap the back of his neck, stick out his tongue, and ask you, “What is it?” And if you haven’t got sense enough to guess that he’s imitating a cash register, your college education hasn’t done you much good. Or if you don’t know that a funny sound made by vibrating the lips against the palm means a bird in the hand, or that waving one arm at the other signifies “Farewell to Arms,” you—well, you’re not an intellectual, that’s all.
Ever since watching those very attractive tennis experts, Mrs. Arnold and Miss Jane Sharp, perform in the field house Friday night, we’ve been wondering why we hadn’t always been enthusiastic fans of the game. Due to their inspiration we’re going to take the sport a lot more seriously in the future. Who knows but what their influence may possibly make us
another Bill Tilden. All we have to do now is borrow a racquet and a book of rules. Maybe we’d possess a few excellent pointers about the game already had we concentrated while Bruce Barnes beat Tilden, but after
the lovely ladies stopped playing, our interest in the exhibition waned considerably.
Once more we’ve all been disappointed; disillusioned that’s what. At least those of us who get their victuals in the west dining hall. One evening we streamed in at six o’clock as usual. But greeting us were not the customary bare, oak, medieval-looking tables. Oh, sure, the same tables were there all right, but this time all those first visible to the entering mob were decked out with white, clean, new-looking table cloths topped by attractively folded napkins. Even the knives, forks, spoons, and dishes seemed to be shining with an unexpected brilliance. Surprised and very much pleased at this welcome prospect, each man went to his accustomed place only to be startled by an authoritative voice commanding: “All right you fellows! Everybody down to the-tables in back! This layout is for the Elks’ banquet tonight.” Somehow we just don’t rate.
Little Joe Schultz knocked on a South Bend girl friend’s door, and her mother opened it. Before poor Joe could open his mouth, the lady proceeded in this fashion: “I’m sorry, but my daughter can’t go out with you tonight because she has to get up early for church tomorrow. And she can’t go out with you tomorrow night because she never leaves the house on Sunday. And she can’t go out with you any night during the week because you have to get up early every morning for class.” Forthwith, the lady closed the door in Joe’s face, leaving him to wonder. . .
Eleven
IN THE J IGE LEE VEIN
CAFSMOKE
From all appearances the vacation seems to have been an unusually mild one. Even JOE FOX returned from Rochester a bit earlier because there wasn’t “much doin’ back home.”. . . Beware of all affected friendships which loom over the political horizon. Because of the coming campus elections personalities will be exploded approximately ten times their normal size. . . .
And speaking about personality “Butch” Bruno has annexed a mem
“. . . and I hear they got Freddy Martin for the Senior Ball.
ber of Earl Carroll’s SKETCH BOOK chorus to his entourage. . . . According to the most accurate calculations there remain for your enhancement five more issues of the Scholastic. How will you ever get along in life without the thrills and heart throbs divulged by CAF SMOKE?. . .
Oh! yes, Mrs. Mansfield’s heart throb Joe from Fall River is endeavoring to get appointed on the Indiana Democratic convention to Indianapolis so if you are of age answer to the call and help send Joe down the river (the St. Joe).
NICK CASILLO was the most restless individual on the Commodore Vanderbilt bound for New York. He asked the time every half hour and
thought each station coming up would be New York.
JIM BALES, LL.D., (Ludicrous Linguist from Dixon) claims his home town did not provide him with much excitement this past Easter— maybe it was the train ride!!!
One man on the campus now professes his profound fidelity in the Scholastic and all it upholds—Sabby Bonet, posing as a reporter for the Notre Dame newspaper gained ’ entrance to the Chicago Club dance held
at the Medinah Club. . .
TOM FOY and his cronies wound up holding the bag in their fiasco at the Drake Easter Tuesday. ... A pickpocket showed them the perils of a big city. . . . CHARLIE ROGGEN-STEIN is badly crippled this week after his first attempt to remain astride a horse for any length of time (he failed). LUKE TIERNAN, JACK BRITTON, and JACK KING are a bunch of dance crasher inners as evidenced by their untimely appearance at the St. Mary’s formal in Chicago.
It is with great pity that this near-the-end issue of Caf Smoke comes to an end. Only four more left. . . . Tears! Tears! Tears!
—The Funny Fellows..
Lost
Have you seen a book,
A large, bright-colored book;
My latest story-book
That somebody took?
The book that’s lost?
No matter where I look
I can’t find the book.
What doggone dirty crook
Took away that book?
The book that’s lost?
I must get back that book	.
And put it in its nook
Because, if he should look
I know he’d miss his book—
My roommate’s book that’s lost.
“I have three brothers alive, and one in Indiana.”
In a cigarette it’s taste. In dining hall coffee it’s terrible.
You Can’t Tie My Roommate
I like my roommate.
He never gets up in the morning to close the window.
He’s always bragging about his girl friends.
He borrows my clothes and cigarettes.
He talks when I try to study.
But he can tie a bow tie.
Little Frosh, You’ve Had a Busy Day To tune “Little Man You’ve Had a Busy Day” Little man you’re crying, I know why you’re blue,
Someone took your week-end per away.
Better keep your trap shut, little man you’ve had a noisy day.
Roomy took your money — tell you what we’ll do,
Dad’ll send you more dough right away.
Better keep your trap shut — little man you’ve had a noisy day.
The only “collegiate” thing left at college is Webster’s dictionary.
CIGARETTE CONTEST
The Philip Morris Cigarette Company is sponsoring a contest on the campus for the collection of the largest number of cigarette packages bearing its label. Eleven prizes will be awarded when the returns are counted April 29th. Prizes include humidor packages, flat packs, and cartons of cigarettes. In all a total of 1250 cigarettes will be given away.
Contestants merely have to write their name and address on the empty Phil Morris packages and drop them in the box provided at the Notre Dame candy store.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN_____________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman--------------------------An the Juggler Fein
News Staff
Paul Foley---------------------------------------News Editor
Robert L. Grogan----------------------Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown_________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus---------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Louis Da Pra------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker--------------------------Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron--------------------------Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen
Allan Bride______________________________________Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis---------------------------------Art Editoi
Francis Kroeger---------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26______________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
April 24, 1936
SATIRE ON A NATIONAL SCALE
The phenomenal growth of that comic-serio organization, the Veterans of Future Wars, has had some interesting aftereffects throughout the nation. The new society, which started as an undergraduate protest against the mounting pro-war sentiment at a time when the world is still staggering under the burden of the last war, has spread rapidly. Latest statistics indicate that the group, hardly two months old, has a membership of over 20,000 and nearly 150 posts have been established at different colleges and universities.
At first glance the platform of the VFW assumes the proportions of a national joke. A little thought will show, however, that it is no more fanatical than prohibition, and about as sound economically as the late Congressional nightmare— the Townsend plan. The manifesto of the VFW declares that if present conditions continue, the United States will eventually find itself embroiled in another disastrous war. Such a conflict will be fought, not by the present ruling generation, but by the youth of the nation. This war will mean another bonus payment, and since it is now customary to pay bonuses before they are due, the VFW demand immediate payment
April 2 4, 1936
plus three per cent interest compounded annually from June 1, 1965 backward to June 1, 1936.
The founders of the organization argue that the bonus should be paid now while the VFW are young and need the money. Many of the future soldiers will be killed, crippled, or blinded and will be unable to spend their share. Payment now, the manifesto emphasizes, would lift the country out of the depression just as the Townsend plan had hoped to do by stimulating the flow of currency.
Throughout the whole VFW platform runs a wholesome note of irony. Satire is a deadly weapon and in the hands of the college undergraduates it can be very, very effective. The public chuckled when the Veterans of Future Wars first came forward with their surprising demand for a bonus; it roared when a conservative women’s college in the East announced the formation of an auxiliary organization, the Association of Gold Star Mothers of Veterans of Future Wars. The members of this group, which later adopted the name of Ladies Auxiliary of Future Veterans demanded free trips to Europe, pensions, etc.
The significance of this movement cannot be readily estimated at this time. Undoubtedly it will prove effective in showing the tremendous cost of the next war before it is even fought. It has already shown the .hostile attitude of the American college man and woman toward war, and toward the extra tax burden imposed through the payment of a bonus not, as yet, due. Potentially, this witty burlesque is capable of killing, through ridicule, several of the warped ideas which today endanger the peace of the country. Finally it has demonstrated clearly that the college student of today is breaking away from the passive attitude of previous generations and is taking an active interest in the affairs of the nation. It is extremely doubtful whether the young bonus seekers will get very far in Congress with their request for immediate payment, but at least they will make their' desire for peace plain enough for even Congress to understand.
9
BAN CORSAGES AT CAMPUS DANCESI
The Knights of Columbus are to be congratulated for their foresight in banning corsages at their formal next Friday evening. The high cost of campus dances has long been criticized by the student body. Class officials and club presidents have failed to realize that corsages are an unnecessary expense, and that their elimination would be an appreciable saving to the students who support their dances. In the case of the Engineers’ Formal and the Monogram Ball, the cost of a corsage may easily exceed the price of the dance bid.
With the Senior Ball only two weeks away, we appeal to the class officials to place a formal ban on the sending of corsages. Let the members of the senior class set the example and discard this extravagant and useless custom. A concerted refusal to purchase corsages will make conspicuous the few who have the poor taste to disregard the wishes of the majority. As a practical remedy for alleviating the high cost of campus dances, we propose the abolition of corsages.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
BASEBALL NINE FACES ILLINI AND SPARTANS
ILLINOIS NINE TO SHOW HERE TOMORROW HAS RECORD OF SIX WINS AND ONE LOSS
WALLIE ROETTGER, ONE TIME MAJOR LEAGUE STAR, DIRECTS ILLINI
Coach Jake Kline and his proteges anticipate two busy afternoons when they play Illinois to-morrow and Michigan State on the 30th. Both teams will be at full strength, and will be gunning for Capt. Frankie Gaul and his teammates. Michigan State and Illinois are reputed to have two of the strongest nines in the MidWest, not lacking in good pitchers or strong hitters.
The Ulini, having six out of seven wins to their credit, will come here with a fairly experienced line-up. Hale Swanson, a veteran pitcher, brought in an impressive victory over Purdue last Saturday. He ■will share the battery assignment with Nikle-wicz. Berg and Russell will also be ready. Capt. Duffner, Weber, Swikle and Franklin will make up a fast and alert infield. Duffner, first-sacker, is a particularly powerful man at bat, as is Reinhart, left-fielder. This will be the only time that Notre Dame will meet Wallie Roettger’s Big Ten Champs, and it promises to be a real ball game.
The following Thursday Michigan State will be host to the Notre Dame nine with plenty of the snappy baseball that has characterized the meeting of the two schools on the diamond. Coach Johnny Kobs’ ball-tossers recently wound up a success-(Continued on Page 22)
Wally Fromhart Plays and bats third.
Fourteen
New End Coach
Official announcement was made last week by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, of the appointment of Johnny “One-play” O’Brien to suc-
John O’Brien
He was good for another play.
ceed Tom Conley as end coach of the Notre Dame varsity for the coming season. O’Brien will assume his duties immediately. Conley had previously accepted the position of head coach at John Carroll University in Cleveland, where he succeeds Tom Yarr, another former Irish captain.
O’Brien has an impressive record both as a player and coach. Following his graduation in 1931 he was appointed assistant to “Rip” Miller, who was then head coach of Navy. Johnny coached the Academy ends (Continued on Page 22)	.
Klinemen Win Openers Over Toledo and Chicago
By John Cackley
Notre Dame opened the spring baseball card last week, with a hard-earned 7 to 6 victory over Toledo, Friday afternoon, on Cartier Field, and a lop-sided win at the expense of Chicago, 8-2, the following day.
A brilliant seventh-inning rally enabled the Irish to subdue the Toledo combine. Wally Fromhart proved to be the deciding factor of the session, when he knocked a home run with two men on bases. Two singles, two triples, and Fromhart’s bingle, in the sixth and seventh frames, allowed the Irish to chalk up six runs. Camp, the visiting pitcher, had previously been twirling air-tight ball, until the fatal seventh.
Andy Pilney came out of the game with a perfect batting average, connecting for two singles and a four-bagger, besides drawing a pass, in his four appearances at the plate. Vel-check also accounted for a homer, in the initial inning, as he swatted a long fly into deep Centerfield. Matt Thernes tossed the first six innings for Notre Dame, but was relieved in favor of John Goncher after the invaders had a 3-4 advantage in the issue. Goncher gave but two runs and five hits in the three chapters that he worked.
The losers, playing errorless ball, outhit the Irish 13 to 10. Mattison, the Toledo catcher, led his team in the percentages with two hits in three trips to plate. Pilney and Fromhart stole enough bases to warrant a “vacation” in Alcatraz, as they combined to hang up a total of five.
• Notre Dame experienced little trouble in downing the Chicago nine, 8 to 2. The heavy war clubs of Pilney, Gaul, Velcheck, and Ponzevic registered eight hits. Coach Jake Kline’s selection of Ennio Arboit for the pitching assignment was a wise choice, as the lanky sophomore struck out nine men. Frank Gaul emulated ’ Fromhart’s feat of the Toledo affair, when he connected for a home run in the sixth with two men on base. It was one of the longest hits that has ever been made on Cartier Field.
Pilney smacked the sphere for two
• ' - .(Continued on Page 18)
The Scholastic
Netmen Lose First Meet;
Point for Coming Matches
GOLF TEAM DEFEATS WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY;
PLAY CHICAGO AND ILLINOIS ON LOCAL COURSE
The combination of a strong Illinois tennis squad and the caprices of the Indiana weather which allowed the Irish netmen less than two days of outdoor practice completely ruined the 1936 debut of the Notre Dame tennis team last Saturday. The local netters, playing on the University courts, lost to the Illini by the decisive score of 6-0.
Although losing in straight sets Captain Joe Waldron of the Irish team staged a splendid comeback in the second set and in doing so revealed the brand of playing that has made him one of the best players in recent years on the Notre Dame courts. Moll, number one man, for the Illini after winning the first set by a love score, saved the final set by consistently pounding Waldron’s backhand and effectively storming the net when the Irish captain threatened to outdrive him.
The closest singles match of the day was between Leuers of Illinois and McNulty of Notre Dame. After
Capt. Joseph Waldron He won’t dance tonight.
a bitterly fought first set which went to the Illinois player by a score of 7-5 McNulty weakened considerably and lost the second by a score of 6-2. Hicks had but little trouble in beating Cannon of Notre Dame as seen by the set scores which were 6-1, 6-0. Like the other Irish players Cannon has not yet rounded into the form that makes him always a dangerous 'opponent. The final singles match of the day was taken by Rich of Illinois from Joe Prendergast by the same score as was the Hicks vs. Cannon contest. Only occasionally did Prendergast display the ability that has stamped him as a player of high calibre during intercollegiate competition.
The first of the doubles contest found Leuers and Rich of the Illini
(Continued on Page’20)
A p r i I 2 4. I 9 3 6
Result of Golf Match
The golfers of Notre Dame, led by Captain Win Day, inaugurated their 1936 golfing season by decisively defeating Washington University of St. Louis 11% to 6% on Wednesday, April 15, in a meet held at St. Louis.
The Irish lost but one singles match and tied one of the two doubles engagements as they started what looks like another winning season. Lou Fehlig was the unlucky member to lose to the star of the Washington team, Tom Draper. The doubles team of Herm Green and Win Day were tied by George Stan and Bill Mason of Washington, otherwise all members of the Irish team came through with clear cut wins over their opposition.
The doubles team of Bill Castleman and Bill Cole w'on their match 2 to 1, and Win Day, Bill Taylor-and Pat Malloy all registered victories -for the Irish linksmen in single engagements.
The results:
Doubles: B. Castleman-B. Cole, N.D.; defeated T. Draper-J. Weiss. Washington. 2 to 1 Herm Green-Win Day. N.D.; tied G. Stan-B. Mason, Wash., 1% to 1%.
Singles: Lew Fehlig, N.D. lost to T. Draper. Wash. 2% to 1%; Win Day. N.D.. defeated G. Stan. Wash., 2% to % : Bill Taylor, NJ)., defeated J. Campbell, Wash.. 2 to 1 ; Pat Malloy. N.D., defeated J. Weiss, Wash. 3 to 0.
Final score Notre Dame 11% ; Washington University 6%.
SPRING FOOTBALL
Coach Elmer Layden’s football boys returned to school last week followed the Easter vacation and settle down to the last two weeks of spring football practice. The practice is expected to terminate on May 3 when the annual “Old Timers” vs. Varsity football game will be played in the stadium.
The squad had progressed to such a point in the first three days of last week’s practice that the coaches called for a scrimmage on Saturday afternoon. Two teams were chosen at random and many replacements were used. Joe Zwers, varsity end scored the only touchdown of the scrimmage when he fell on Larry Danbom’s fumble early in the scrimmage. Later Bill Bruno, quarterback, sent a 30 yard drop kick over the cross bars for a field goal for his team. No other scoring took place during the game.
Johnny “One-play” O’Brien took over the end coaching job this week after Tom Conley had left for John Carroll. The tall coach worked hard with his end charges trying to get an idea of what kind of material he has to work with next fall.
By Arch G.ott
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golf team will open up its 1936 home season on the William J. Burke University golf course. Chicago University will provide the opposition and if the erratic weather settles down there should be plenty of fancy shooting. High winds of the past few weeks have somewhat hampered practice sessions of Rev. George Holderith’s squad. Nevertheless after the initial victory of the season against Washington U. the Irish team seems to be in satisfactory form.
On Monday the Notre Dame fairway experts will play host to another Big Ten team, Illinois University. Last year the two schools did not meet on the links so the strength of the Illini is somewhat of an unknown quantity. This meet will no doubt prove the first real test of the caliber of this year’s Notre Dame golf team and the boys on the squad are highly anxious to continue along the victory road.
Led by Captain Winfield Day who is working his polished swing back into the old groove, the Irish team will consist of a group taken from the following: Pat Malloy, Herman Green,' Bill Castleman, Lou Fehlig, and Bill Taylor. These boys are all capable of turning in good performances and it remains the job of Father Holderith to select a winning combination. Bill Cole, one of the leading members of the team will be lost for an indefinite period. He is suffering from a serious kidney ailment and at present is at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Notre Dame Track Troupe
Compete in Drake Relays
By Cy
We are a New Englander by birth, if you will pardon the introduction of a little personal history, and while we realized that life went on in other places besides the Atlantic coast, we always shuddered timorously at the thought. We had, too, heard mention of Cincinnati but since it was always
tflWT
TUCRNC6
-PlTC+ltR-
in connection with a comic song or a German dialect, we concluded that Cincinnati was a place more to be laughed about than respected. But we have been wrong; the city has. some redeeming features and worthwhile products. Take the case of Matt Themes, now. He is a son of that metropolis and he can be classified as one of the outstanding athletes of the present student generation because he has made a name for himself in football, baseball, and basketball at Notre Dame. In fact, he is the strong point in Jake Kline’s pitching staff this year.
Matt was born in the above mentioned city some 22 years ago and received his secondary education at Roger Bacon high school there. While in high school he launched on the
Stroker
varied athletic career that has made him well known among the followers of the Irish, by playing end on the football team, guard on the basketball team, and by occupying the pitching box in high school baseball games. In the first two mentioned sports, Matt’s team, coached by Joe Morrissey a Notre Dame graduate, was citychampion for two years and runner ■ up in the’ state championship tournament.	•
So it was with a solid athletic background that Matt came to Notre Dame in 1932. Once here, he promptly applied as a Freshman candidate for his three favorite sports. He made good in football and baseball, but in basketball—alas—he was cut from the squad the first night. In his sophomore year he made all the trips with the football squad but failed to ’ get in the game at all. Last year he made his monogram in football but since he played the same position as All-American Wayne Millner, he had quite a few difficulties during his junior and senior years. Not entirely abandoning basketball, Matt has played in the interhall league for three years and last year made the guard position on the All-interhall team.
It is on the baseball diamond that Themes really shines, and when he stands on the mound and starts swinging his arm in the direction of Frankie Gaul, Irish baseball fans heave a sigh of relief. Matt first got his chance in the Indiana game of 1933 at a time when luck had been going against the Irish for weeks. In that game he startled his teammates, the opponents, and probably himself by winning the game against the Hoosiers. Although he won only two games that season to one loss, his success so bolstered the morale of the Klinemen that they turned a poor season into a successful one by -winning the majority of their games, i Last year Matt had some stiff competition for the hurler’s position in Joe Beach but this season seems to point to a good year for the lad from . Cincinnati.	'
Aside from his athletic activities, Matt is a senior in Commerce, majoring in bushfess administration. He looks forward to a career in foreign " commerce on graduation and intends to start this summer by working on a boat. He lives in Walsh with trackman Paul Rubly and still entertains hopes that Paul will come in first or second yet. His time is pretty well taken up trying to keep both girls happy. .	’
Seeking new laurels Coach John Nicholson will direct his Notre Dame track forces today and tomorrow at Des Moines, Iowa,- the first outdoor appearance of the Irish thinlies this year.
When interviewed regarding the team’s chances, Coach Nicholson seemed to believe that his two-mile relay quartet was his “best bet.” Running in this group will be Bernard, McGrath, Cavanaugh, and either Francis or Gott. The team to watch in this event, if they enter, will be the Kansas State, victorious last week at the Kansas Relays. During Nicholson’s coaching reign here, Notre Dame has thrice won the two-mile relay.
The mile-relay, C.I.C. co-title-holders, will be somewhat handicapped as a result of the recent sickness of Paul Rubly. There is but little possibility of Rubly starting. If he remains out of action, “Nick” will depend on Bernard, Parsons, McGrath, and Mahoney. Indiana’s crack milerelay will probably be the pre-race favorite.	’
In the 440 and 880 relays, Notre Dame will use the same four men. They are Jordan, Frawley, Boyle, and Clifford, The University of Texas looks like the team to contend with in the sprint relays, should it decide to come to Drake. “Nick” also may enter teams in the four-mile relay and the sprint medley relay. Should
Don Elser
From Kansas to Drake.
he do this, he will'have McFarlane, McKenna, Gott and Francis in the former, and Rubly, Gott, McFarlane and McKenna in the medley.
Competing in the 100-yard dash for Notre Dame will be Bill “Ace” Clifford, and possibly Eddie Boyle. Unless advance reports were wrong, the boys won’t have to worry about Jesse Owens. The colored streak was scheduled to go to Penn. Don Elser, although slightly stale after his decathalon efforts at the Kansas Relays, will compete in the shot put. .
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Prof. deLandero Revives Fencing Art at N.D.
Popular Coach and Professor Formed First Team Here in 1934; Present Team Undefeated for Two Years.
Since its inception in 1934, fencing has become one of Notre Dame’s most successful sports. Not a meet has been dropped in two years, and the team is well on its way to claim national collegiate honors for the cur-
Fencing Coach de Landeko .4 fine sportsman and coach.
rent season. The gentleman who is the guiding hand behind this phenomenal record answers to the name of Pedro Antonio de Landero. As coach of fencing at Notre Dame this remarkable fellow after only one test year of experience, developed an undefeated squad which has gone forward to sweep aside all opposition.
A most interesting career has been the lot of Coach de Landero since he hung up his cap and gown at Notre Dame in 1911. First, it might be well to go back to 1900 when he was going to school in Pachuca, a mining town about 60 miles from Mexico City. There it was that his father started him fencing. Each morning the young boy and his father would spend an hour at the sport, and it wasn’t very long until the son began to outplay the father. In 1904 when a noted Italian fencer, Romulo Tem-peri, started teaching soldiers in Pachuca, de Landero was given the opportunity of taking lessons from him. During those three years he improved rapidly and met some of the greatest fencers in Mexico at the time, the French Henri Marteaux, the Mexican Escudero, and many others, all of whom gave him valuable assistance
A p r i I 2 4, I 9 3 6-
in the game. Coach de Landero considers as probably his outstanding teacher, Lucien Merignac, who is to this day reputed to be the greatest foil fencer that ever lived.
In 1907 Coach de Landero came to Notre Dame as a student, and in the old “Rec” room of Corby Hall the first fencing ever done at Notre Dame took place. He and two of his Spanish-speaking friends, Jose Luis Requena and Encarlos Duque, practised regularly, but no attempt was made at the time to establish a team at the University, as the sport was not well enough known at the time. In 1910 de Landero and Duque presented exhibitions in the art of fencing at St. Mary’s and at Washington Hall—this was the introduction of fencing into this part of the country, and it aroused a great deal of favorable comment. It seems that Mr. de Landero graduated in 1911 and returned to Mexico, taking with him the sport of fencing which was not seen again at Notre Dame until the fall of 1933. when an exhibition was again given in Washington Hall.
Graduating with a Civil Engineer’s degree Coach de Landero took up the practise of the engineering profession in Mexico after a few more years of education during which he studied at 35 schools located all over the world. In Mexico, he indulged in several fencing tourneys with some of the masters in fencing, specializing in the sabre, always his favorite. Mr. de Landero returned to Notre Dame once more in 1926 when he accepted an offer to teach Spanish. A few years back he was honored by his fellow
1936 FENCING TEAM
professor who elected him president of the Faculty Club. Friendly, intelligent, and witty, Coach de Landero is admired by all on the campus as a fine gentleman.
Curiously enough, fencing was revived at Notre Dame by an odd combination. The French Club was holding a meeting one night in the Faculty dining hall, and Mr. Langwell of the French Club had asked de Landero to attend the meeting and to judge a saber bout to be held between Harold May and George Miller Mallet. After the regular meeting had been held Coach de Landero gave a short explanation of fencing followed by the bout. The bout being fought, Mr. Langwell asked Professor de Landero to give an additional demonstration which encouraged him to remove his coat and to don a mask. He borrowed a sabre from Mallett and fenced against May. This experience proved to him that he still could fence, and some of the boys present invited him to form a class about two weeks after that meeting. From that time on, by the mere doffing of his coat, he became known not only as “professor” but as “coach.” Some members of Notre Dame, who can proudly claim a charter membership in the annals of the sport here, were - Grosso, Mallet, Caesario, Brias, Bonet, Singson, Weil, Kehoe, Madden, Telmo and Carlos de Landero, along with a score or more others. The result of their attendance at practise sessions and of their expert coaching has been the excellent first fencing group at Notre (Continued on Page 21)
Seventeen
PURDUE BASEBALL GAME
Six hits and six errors produced, eleven runs in a wild and woolly fifth inning, wiped out a seven-run lead of the Purdue Boilermakers, and gave the Irish nine their fifth straight win of the season, 18 to 15.
When the slugfest ended, Notre Dame had collected 17 hits, while the Boilermakers had touched the Irish hurlers for 15. Purdue’s ten muffles, most of which were made at critical points in the game, aided the Irish in capturing top place in the scoring.
Frankie Gaul, Irish captain, again led his mates at bat with three hits out of four trips to the plate. One. of these was a long drive into left field for a home run, and another was a double. Velcheck and Borowski also wielded the stick well, each collecting three hits out of six tries.
TOLEDO AND CHICAGO GAMES
(Continued from Papre 14)
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
doubles and a single to lead the Irish slugging barrage. The Maroons at no time during the contest offered a serious threat to the Blue and Gold
advantage. Haarlow, Chicago’s one-man basketball squad, was unable to solve the twirling of Arboit, and registered a neat ‘goose egg,’ in the hitting column. An unusual incident of the Chicago game was the four straight walks, donated to Wally Fromhart, by Mastropky, the Maroon pitcher.
Kacend, who was holding down the second sack for Chicago, was the mainstay in the Maroon’s batting array. Nieman, left-fielder, collected a total of two safeties out of four trips to the plate.
By Joe Prendergast
A DIAMOND COMEDIE
Notre Dame in all its Indiana chilliness never saw a more up-side-down ball game than was that pantomime of the national pastime which occurred at Cartier Field last Wednesday afternoon. The black and gold-clad Purdue Boilermakers were finally nosed out 18 to 15 by the Irish tossers, but only after everything from mayhem to Babe Heramnities had taken place on both sides. Why, at one spot during the Kline run deluge in the fifth inning the portly would-be arbitrator behind the plate (who reminds me so much of those characteristic cartoons of old Papa Volstead, himself) had to break down and smile heartily.
. The fielding warm-up drills for the Purdue nine gave every indication of what was to follow. Premature farm boys playing in a soggy pasture was the likes of their infield practice; but their fielding was the deepest of falsettos in so far as their ability to whack that pellet was concerned. They squared off with Matt Thernes’ slants in the very first inning and had five runs across the plate before some of the spine-chilled spectators knew what was in progress.
Twelve runs was their total when the Irish came to bat for their half of the fifth stanza. Here was where the lads really went to work—the Irish with their bats and the down-staters with their miscues. Eleven runs tickled across the platter and your correspondent counted eight errors on the visitors’ pai-t. It was amazing the ease with which runs and misplays were made. Well the “fantasy of bobbles” finally wound up with Notre Dame out front by three runs, so everyone on the campus was happy, except, of course, the vanquished. Fourteen errors was the total made by both nines with ten being committed by the Boilermakers. The scorers were very lenient in this respect, for to this correspondent it seemed that twice that number of errors would be setting it at a minimum.
Notre Dame (8)
AB R H P A
Corc’an.ss	3	2 0	0	3
V’check.cf	4	12	2	0
Pon’v’h,2b	5	114	3
Pilney, If	5	2 3	1	0
Gaul, c	4	12	9	1
Bor’ski.rf	5	0 0	2	0
Fr’hart,3b	0	10	0	2
V’Wr.lb	4	0 0	8	0.
Arboit, p	4	0 0	1	2
Chicago (2) AB R H P A Cock’n.cf 3 0 10 0 K’cend,3b 5 0 3 0 2 Tr’jka,2b 3 0 0 1 3 H’ri’w.lb 4 0 013 0 White.ss 4 12 13 Ship’ay.c 2 0 0 1 1 Gold.rf 4 0 12 0 N’man.lf 4 0 2 4 0 Mast’y.p 3 114 0 xB’rnard 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 8 8 27 11 Totals 33 2 10 2414
Buns batted in—Nieman, Kacend, Pilney 2, Gaul 4. Errors—Corcoran, Trojka, White 2. Shipway, Mastropky. Two-base hits—Nieman, Pilney 2. Three-base hits—White 2. Home run—Gaul. Sacrifice hits—Velcheck, Corcoran. Left on bases—Chicago 9, Notre Dame 9. Stolen bases—Pilney, Gaul, Borowski, Corcoran. Struck out by Arboit 9. Mastropky 1.
Notre Dame (7)
AB R H P A Velch’k.cf 5 12 10 Went’th.ss 4 0 0 0 1 Scafati.2b 5 114 2 Pilney,If 3 2 3 0 0 Gaul, c 3 1 111 3 Bor’ski, rf 4 1 2 1 0 Fromh’t,3b 3 12 0 2 V’W’g’r.lb 3 0 010 0 Thernes, p 2 0 0 0 0 Goncher.p 1 0 0 0 2 Romere 0 0 0 0 0
Toledo (6) AB R H P A Co’nell.cf 5 1110 Spr’k,2b 5 0 14 1 Cupp,lb 5 117 0 Hayes,3b 4 2 2 1 1 Mat’son.c 3 0 2 8 0 Folger,ss 4 0 2 0 5 Wade,rf 4 12 2 0 Crowe,lf 4 1110 Camp,p 4 0 10 2
Totals 38 613 24 9
Totals 33 7 10 27 10
Errors—Wentworth 2: Gaul, Van Wagner. Three-base hits—Borowski, Fromhart. Stolen bases—Pilney 3 : Fromhart 2: Romere, Crowe. Sacrifice hits—Wentworth Bases on balls—off Thernes 9; by Goncher 2; by Camp 6. Wild pitches—Thernes 2 : Camp. Inning pitched— by Thernes 6; by Goncher 3. Winning pitcher —Goncher.
MINOR SPRING SPORTS
The golf and tennis teams have started their schedules for 1936. The Irish golfers setting down Washington U. without much difficulty last Saturday in St. Louis and the Notre Dame netsters taking a lacing from Illinois on the local clay courts, if you will permit the swamp lands back of the Cushing Hall of Engineering to be called that. Bad weather did hamper the golf team but stopped the tennis combine from getting any semblance of a practice before it opened the season.
The Notre Dame golf crew, led by the University Champion, Win Day, can be counted on this yeai’ to keep up the fine records set by previous Irish put-artists. For eight years the local outfit has been on a par with any team in the country. This year with hard driving Pat Malloy back with Lou Fehlig, Herm Green, Harry Baldwin—all returning lettermen, and with Bill Taylor, Bill Castleman, sophomores to strengthen the veterans another marvelous season must be in store for Father Holderith’s boys. Bill Cole, who was another returning letterman, was stricken with a kidney ailment last Wednesday and is now at the Mayo Brothers’ Clinic being treated. Tomorrow they play Chicago University on the local course and it would be well worth the while of all students to trot over there and watch as fine a golf team as there is in intercollegiate circles perform.
SPLINTS FROM YOUR OWN BENCH
The Boston Bees have an air of confidence these days. They have to win only 37 more games to beat their last year’s record when they won 38 tilts out of 154 . . . Adolph, the apple man, is a full-fledged Belgian . . . Pat Malloy, a member of the Irish golf team, has a brother Jack, captain of Princeton’s golf team this year, whom Pat claims made a hole in one in Colorado last summer without the ball hitting the ground once before it proceeded directly into the cup . . . Joe McNulty, winner of last year’s fall tennis tourney, is still waiting for the trophy for his deeds. Maybe the prize is ripening with age . . . Danno O’Mahoney will wrestle in South Bend this coming evening. This kid will be there for one . . . Don Elser paid his own way to the Kansas Relays as did Leo McFarlane. Also in the track line, there has been some talk of cancelling the Navy outdoor meet in Annapolis this spring because of the cost.
The Scholastic
Eighteen
IRISH FENCERS REMAIN UNDEFEATED KEHOE, C. DE LANDERO WIN ILL. MEET
Kiefer, Best Local Novice
The Irish Fencing team completed \ its most successful season by winning all of its nine scheduled dual meets' and running its string of victories to 17 straight. Notre Dame touched off 94J4 points to its opponents 58<4-
The team- was strongest in the sabre when the two co-captains, Carlos de Landero, who won 16 bouts out of 18, and Kevin Kehoe, who won 15 out of 18, co-starred to win every match and to take 31 out of the 36 bouts during the season. These two probably formed the season’s strongest two-man sabre team in Intercollegiate fencing.
The foil team won six matches and lost three for a total of 51 victories and 30 debeats. The burden of the play was carried by Co-captain Kehoe who won 20 and lost 4, Telmo de Landero who won 13 and lost 9, and Bob Seco who won 11 and lost 11.
Epee is apparently the only weapon which the Notre Dame fencers have failed to master. In all nine matches, the Irish V/i to l'/2 victory over Purdue was their only win in this division. No one of the Irish epee team won more than half of his bouts, but Jack McAuliffe won 7J/2 and lost IOJ/2 while Kevin Kehoe won 3J/2 and lost 6J4 to take 11 of our 12</2 points in this event.
On April 3 Co-captains Kehoe and de Landero entered the Divisional Sabre championships of the Amateur Fencers League of America, Illinois division; they tied for first place. In the finals they and three others participated in a round robin tournament to decide the championship. Carlos de Landero defeated everyone except Fritz of Chicago (to whom he lost by one point only); Kehoe defeated everyone except his fellow captain. In the fence off for the medals Carlos de Landero lost to Kehoe by the score of 4 to 5. Both of them, by winning this tournament, qualified for the National championships which begin at the New York Athletic Club on April 26.
In the Second Annual Fencing tournament for novices held here, ten fencers registered for foil competition and four registered for sabre. In the finals of the foils Kiefer took first place; Leising, second; and Mc-Enearney, third. In the sabre first, second and third were gained by Scarloti, Faivre, and Graham in that order. Coach de Landero will present these boys with their medals ■ at the Third Annal Fencing Banquet.
ON DOWN THE LINE |
• By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
MINNESOTA boasts that in the last three years BERNIE BIERMAN’S football elevens have not been scored on in plays starting inside its ten-yard line? — WESLEY BENNETT, WESTMINISTER’S great basketball player scored 372 points during the past season? — BOSTON baseball writers are having a hard getting used to calling the former BRAVES “BEES”?—HARVARD will sell home football tickets at bargain prices next fall? Even so, many insist that HARVARD’S football team is no bargain. No fewer than 55 colleges list billiards as an organized sport? — EARL NIK K E L, former YALE basketball captain, is now a sports writer on the DENVER Post? —FORREST “SPECS” TOWNS the new hurdling sensation from the UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA never competed in high school? Now, as a junior in college he has been developed to such an extent by COACH WEEMS BASKIN that he won the SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE high hurdles championship. HENRY PRUSOFF, the best tennis player to come out of the NORTHWEST in many years, may never brandish a racquet again? He suffered an injury to his back in an elevator accident and now is a patient in the SEATTLE GENERAL HOSPITAL.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
It isn’t enough to be nearly in Style
The curl of a hat brim, set of a shoulder—these may determine style or the lack of it in men’s clothing. So with shoes. If the sweep of a toe-line or spacing of a stitch miss correctness by a few hair-widths, the result is “just a shoe.”
Laugh off these things publicly if you like, but when we see you coming in our door, we know you’re not satisfied to be nearly in style. The fraction that means correctness is as much a part of the Douglas creed as All - Leather Construction.
Pay us a visit and welcome the freshness of the wing - tip, the fashionable narrower toe, the new shades of London Tan and Saddle Calf.
W.L DOUGLAS STORE IN SOUTH BEND 210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday Evenings)
Victor C. Astone, N. D. Representative
1876—Sixty. Years of Progress—1936
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
Nineteen
TENNIS TEAM LOSES (Continued from Page 15)
pitted against Fallon and McNulty of Notre Dame. This match was the only on in which the Irish failed to take a single game, the scores being 6-0, 6-0. The other doubles match between Moll and Hicks of Illinois and Cannon and Prendergast of Notre Dame was closely played in the
first set when the contest went to a 7-5 score but erratic playing and a tendency to overhit lost the Irish players the second set by the onesided score of 6-0.
This afternoon on the University tennis courts Captain Joe Waldron and his fellow racquet wielders, will attempt to erase the negligible showing they made in their debut last week against the tennis team of Illinois University. The opposition for today will be the always strong tennis team from Detroit University. Fol
lowing today’s matches the Irish net-men will journey to Peoria where they will face Bradley Tech in an effort to make it two straight over the northern Illinois school.
Despite the loss of the opening contest this year’s tennis team promises to be one of the best net squads in recent Notre Dame history. With a little help from the weather man enabling them to . get some decent practice the 1936 team will make it difficult for whatever teams with which they will cross racquets.
Cryptic is the Governor
What’s behind that chuckle? Possibly he knows our Third Class is full and nimbly advances Tourist Class with college orchestras, to forestall your doubling-up with him in his Cabin Class castle on the BREMEN.
Or again, has he merely confused ship classes with scholastic standings and thinks Tourist Class is a step toward the testimonium sic cum laude?
Anyway, whatever he means, it’s best to acknowledge that only last night you were discussing Tourist Class . . . And here’s proof:
On the BREMEN and EUROPA in the height of season, Tourist Class is $136 up; on COLUMBUS, $124.50 up; Famous Four expresses NEW YORK, HAMBURG, HANSA, DEUTSCHLAND $117.50 up and on ST. LOUIS or BERLIN is $115.50 up.
Europa . . new yorh . Columbus . Bremen • . Hamburg . 5L Couis . Europa • . Ijansa . . Deutschlanb Bremen . . Berlin ♦ . Hero yorh . Europa . .
uno 21 ' une 25 une 27 uly 1 uly 2 uly 4 uly 8 uly 9 uly 16 uly 17 uly 18 uly 23 uly 24
Last Sailing in Time for start of Xlth OLYMPICS
EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT
A totally inadequate idea of the extreme luxury af-	sidering study abroad there are also “The Guide Book
forded in Tourist Class is conveyed by our profusely	for Study in Europe’’ and '‘Summer Courses Abroad”,
illustrated booklets, sent on request. For those con- 1936 Editions. Consultations arranged.
a Homburg-American line ♦ north Gorman (loyb x
'S£SI	130 West Randolph St., Chicago, or Your Local Travel Agent
Twenty
The Scholastic
Bill Tilden Humiliated
By Barnes In Net Match
That part of the Bill Tilden tennis troupe which consists of Mrs. Ethel Burkhardt Arnold, Jane Sharp, Bruce Barnes, and the old master himself, gave a fine exhibition last Friday night in the gymnasium. The outstanding features of the program were the smoothly beautiful playings of Mrs. Arnold, the smoothly beautiful face of Miss Sharp, the ball-boy-ing of some elephant-like creature who kept tripping over his own feet, and the unexpected massacre of Tilden by Bruce Barnes.
Mrs. Arnold, the four-foot-eleven girl who has turned pro since she was such a very important factor in helping the United States retain the Wightman Cup last summer, took over her fellow Californian fairly easily in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3. She makes up for her size by putting every ounce of energy into any shot she can get her racket on.
In the mixed doubles match Tilden and Mrs. Arnold opposed Bruce Barnes and Jane Sharp. Bill played very nonchalantly and seemed more concerned with the numerous empty seats in the fieldhouse than with the .match itself, yet he and his energetic partner romped through the two sets, 6-3, 6-2.
Barnes, who had been playing much better in the doubles match than the score indicates', blasted out the surprise of the evening, a terrific 6-0 trimming of the master in which he scored 26 points to Tilden’s 9. The tall one complained because the net was an inch and a half too high, but as soon as it had been fixed, Barnes ran off four more games. Tilden finally rallied to take three in a row, but Barnes breezed through the final two games in the second set.
Established 30 Years
lemontre|s
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
Notice to Students:
All statements for glasses will be mailed home on request.
FENCING FEATURE
(Continued from Page 17)
lent record now in existence. Coach de Landero attempts to schedule the most difficult competition available, but the record - continues unmarked by defeat since 1934.
In a recent interview Coach de Landero wished-- to make known a few of the precautions that are exercised in fencing at Notre Dame in order to dispel any fears of the possibly skeptical reader. The jackets worn are double canvas, padded heavily in all susceptible spots. Each participant wears a steel meshed mask reinforced by wire. The gloves are leather and padded in the backs. For sabre bouts there is a padded gauntlet reaching to the elbow avoiding all risk of injury.
Coach de Landero also felt that spectators at the fencing meets should endeavor to understand more clearly a few of the most important fundamentals of fencing in order that they might more thoroughly enjoy the bouts. In a foil bout the target is merely the trunk of the body, arms and hands excluded, and in order to
। score a point against anyone a contestant has to hit only the designated area with a direct thrust. In sabers the target is from the waist up, the only part being excluded is the legs, the head and arms being included.
NOTHING ELSE HAS ITS FLAVOR
Also Imperial Yello Bole $1.50
Briarcliff®
have
Staunton
features, exclusive with Hadley Watch Bracelets, that make a major contribution to Beauty, Comfort and Perfect Fit.
designers
produced many construction
SHAFT UN STS'
Lei your Jeweler Show you the HADLEY 1936 Watch Bracelets
• To learn what is latest in Watch Bracelet Style — send for our illustrated folder, “Smart Wrists" — yours for the asking.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED! IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
HADLEY
COMPANY • INC
•	PROVIDENCE • R • I •
•	New York • Chicago • Los Angeles •
• Toronto*Canada* • London* England •
WRIST WATCH BRACELETS EXCLUSIVELY - SINCE 1912
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
Twenty-one
NEW END COACH
(Continued from Page 14)
for three years until he went to St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, in 1933 as head coach. He remained in that capacity until he received his present appointment a few days ago. Conley and O’Brien were teammates at right and left end respectively for three years under Rockne, the former captaining Rock’s last national championship outfit in 1930. Conley held the position of head coach at LaSalle
Don't Worry About
COPS AND FIREPLUGS
• Don’t let Chicago traffic cops mar your visit with parking tags. Leave your auto at home and ride South Shore Electric trains in comfort and safety.
Go to CHICAGO via
SOUTH SHORE LINE
Go direct to the loop and be there on time. South Shore Line riding is comfortable and, remember, it’s cheaper than driving a car.

Institute, Philadelphia for two years after he finished college. From there he returned to his alma mater as end coach in 1933. Conley was chiefly responsible for the development of such men as Marty Peters and the All-American Wayne Millner, regular ends on this year’s varsity, and leaves O’Brien some very promising material in Joe O’Neill, Joe Zwers, and Len Skoglund.
There is a story behind that extra handle “One-play,” which O’Brien carries. Late in the fall of 1928, Johnny’s sophomore year in college, Notre Dame was playing Army at Yankee Stadium. The score was tied 6-6. Rock had all but exhausted his bag of tricks. Elder had pounded the tackles all afternoon without success. Little Johnny Niemiec had thrown pass after pass only to have them batted down by the Army secondary or fall harmlessly in the open. The Army team was almost rejoicing in a tie decision, but they reckoned without the tall lad from California. When O’Brien went into the game it was Notre Dame’s ball on the Army 32 yard line. On the first play Niemiec faded back for another pass. Johnny O’Brien scooted hard down the sidelines towards the Army goal. Niemiec let go a tremendous heave;
The Campus Tennis Shop
135 Alumni Hall
Racquets Restrung
Bancroft Frames
Dunlop Balls
We string the racquets for the Varsity Tennis Team
O’Brien leaped in the air and then sprawled on the ground. But in his arms he held the precious ball, and the white stripe that Army had so carefully guarded nestled under him. Notre Dame led, and eventually won, 12-6. However, O’Brien did not even remain in the game for the attempt to convert. He, was removed after his “One-play.”
O’Brien did not confine his activities to football. He ran the high hurdles for three years, and captained the track team in his senior year. zHe set a world’s record of :07.5 for the 60 yard high hurdles in the C.I.C. meet of 1931, but it stood for only four hours. The same evening Lee Sentman knocked a tenth of a second off it in the Big Ten meet at Chicago. However, the mark still stands as a C.I.C. and Notre Dame indoor record. O’Brien was always popular as an athlete and promises to maintain this status in the pursuance of his coaching duties.
COMING BALL GAMES (Continued from Page 14)
ful tour of the South with four straight victories allowing only six runs. Walters, a sophomore hurler, gave but one run in 18 innings which* is good pitching on any man’s ball club. Steve Glaza and Milt Lehn-hardt will wield formidable bats for the Notre Dame pitching staff to contend with. Last season Notre Dame lost two out of three to Michigan State, so there will be a few former scores to be amended also. Experience has proved to Coach Kline that comparative scores mean very little in estimating an opponent’s worth. However, Toledo fell before the Klinemen already this season for a 76 count, and Michigan State blanked them 7-0.
Kline’s starting infield will probably consist of Van Wagner, at first; Corcoran or Scafati at second; George Wentworth, at short; and Wally Fromhart, covering the “hot corner.” Andy Pilney, Valcheck, and Borowski will take care of their respective outfield positions. The pitchers for both games are as yet tentative, but starters will be chosen from Matt Themes, ace right-hander, Ar-boit, and Johnnie Goncher, the last two having shown great promise already. Lefty Rydell will also pitch, serving chiefly as a relief pitcher. Frankie Gaul, Notre Dame’s own chattering Mickey Cochrane, will back up the pitchers behind the plate.
Much depends upon the heavy artillery of the Irish to add two more victories to their record. Such big guns as Pilney, Gaul, Fromhart, and Valcheck made possible wins over Toledo and Chicago; and if the right range can be determined much damage will be done in the mini and
• Michigan State camps.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
HALF E HALF MAKES
DHE SWELL SMOKE!
Not a bit

J*1
Make your pipe give double pleasure with Half & Half. Cool as the clang of a grade-crossing bell. Sweet as your habit to ’'Stop, Look and Listen.” Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!
of bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which gets smaller and smaller
as you use-up the tobacco. No bitten lingers as you reach for a load, even the last one.
Copyright 1936. The American Tobacco Company
A p r i I 2 4, 19 3 6
Twenty-three
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONIER LIBRARY-