
APRIL 18, 1991
\r •5^'s-
iA
;j®^
j
I?
®S4«»
MS
^^*z**v?’£:5?,, v ?
s' &*<
M^/XW^s
wS?*W
w1

5S^W' f<g|g
'tWiyfeJk^^
Ob Bit
*
IWfew
''M^
1 r

^VR?.



fWWW> :•■
'^4-

afififflis



iC^._' . ’-.*, .V


w^w&
Sift®
St Edward's Hall proudly presents the return of V si The St. Edward's Hall Charity Carnival
fiprilZl. 1991 on Fieldhouse Mall 11:00 am - 7:00 pm
In case of rain the carnival will ba moved to Stepan Center
SCHOLASTIC!
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Scholastic File Photo
Cover photos by Mari Okuda (top) and Paul Webb (bottom)
NEWS
10
For the Love of Philosophy
Michael Loux resigns to return to teaching in the philosophy department
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor’s Notes
COVER
14
Notre Dame Australia
David Link, dean of the Law School, will serve for one or two years as the inaugural president of NDA
Letters
On Other Campuses
16
Hogstock II: The legacy lives on ...
Holy Cross Hall is no longer around, but the spirit of its inhabitants continues
CAMPUS LIFE
19
A Final Bow
After the production of ‘The Good Woman of Setzuan’ Professor Syburg will retire after many years at Notre Dame
Week In Distortion
Behavior Modification
ENTERTAINMENT
Music
The Waiters NAZZ: Campus Bands
SPORTS 21
Freaks Come Out at Night While most of Notre Dame is studying, asleep (or partying!), this small group of fanatics is playing soccer
12
Coming Distractions
24
Final Word
APRIL 18, 1991
i

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 21
J	April 18, 1991
!	Discs Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
i
;	Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
NEWS EDITOR
। Kate Manuel
i
SPORTS EDITOR
I	Jon Paul Potts
'	CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Elizabeth Graner
I	ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Dave Holsinger
!	DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
;	Michael Owen
|	PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
i	Paul Webb
-	COPY EDITOR
r	”	Margaret Kenny
!	-	LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
:	Patricia Doyle
t : ADVERTISING MANAGER
I	David Chmiel
In This Issue
The building on the cover may look a little unfamiliar to freshmen. Holy Cross Hall was Notre Dame’s most distant dorm until it closed last year. The university demolished the structure over the summer of 1990, but the spirit of the residents lives on in this Saturday’s Hogstock IL Campus Life writer Jo Anne Laffey tells the story of the dorm that’s gone, but not forgotten.
Digger Phelps isn’t the only campus figure to be changing jobs. Deans David Link of the Law School and Michael Loux of the College of Arts and Letters are also stepping down from their positions. News writer Heidi Toboni reports that Link is taking a leave of absence to become president of Notre Dame. Relax, Monk — that’s ND Australia. Meanwhile, Loux is resigning his deanship and returning to the philosophy department, and David Ziringer writes that the search for his successor is already underway.
In Sports, Brad Keck watches an indoor soccer game where little is at stake—except pride and bragging rights, so the players take it seriously. Also returning to this issue, after a lengthy hiatus, is “Athletes of the Week,” Scholastic s salute to the accomplishments of outstanding players.
You also might want to check out Liz Graner’s review of the Nazz. As of this issue, Liz is Scholastic's new entertainment editor. Plus, John Gorkowski offers a salute to the theatre department’s Dr. Syburg, and we present all the usual columns. As Dave Letterman might say, “It’s perhaps the finest hour on network television.” But then, Dave Letterman doesn’t work for a magazine, so ... nevermind.
“Nobody ever covers the real news on campus.”
I’ve heard people complain that student publications don’t report the stories that matter. Well, we can’t write about it if we don’tknow about it If you’ve gotanews tip or a story idea, stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune (office hours are 2:00 to 5:00 p.m., Monday — Friday), or call us anytime at 239-7569.
Better Late Than Never
Last week’s cover art was drawn by Graphic Arts Manager Jeanne Naylor. Any uncredited artwork in this week’s issue was also her doing, although Jill Bryan did the artwork in the foodsales story a few weeks ago. We forgot to print her name, too. Anyway, thanks.
How’re we doing?
Tell us what you think of the articles, columns and reviews; send in a letter to the editor. Type up a“Final Word” if you’ve got something to say about an issue affecting Notre Dame. Think you can write a better story or take a better photo? We’re always looking for talented staffers, for both this year and next. Scholastic encourages your participation.
Why waste your valuable magazine hours with the tedious culinary routine of chewing and swallowing? Quick, start reading while there’s still time! Hope you like this week’s Scholastic, anyway.
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinalionandvacalianperiodsal the University of NotreDame, Notre Dame,IN,46556andprintedatThePapers,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available al $125 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial boardofScholasticorofihe University of Notre Dame, ilsadministralion, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholast ic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board.. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University st udents should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All lellersmusl be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfilting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Noire Dame, IN 46556
\ 2
SCHOLASTIC
Music Reviews Called ‘Pathetically Self-serving’
Dear Editor:
As Jeff Jotz stated in his last music review, the more things change, the more they stay the same. When I was a freshman at Notre Dame, enrolling in the Fall semester of 1987, Scholastic published music reviews that were turgid with superlatives, puerile, and pathetically self-serving. Not much has changed.
In some cases, poor writing can be transcended by powerful content. In others, well-constructed sentences can hide messages of dubious substance. The recent music reviews (perhaps of the last two semesters) unfortunately can claim neither finesse in writing nor coherency of message. In the review of Slint, in the April 11,1991 issue, it is stated that “A distinct tension is created, and the complacency becomes almost hypnotic.” Within the context of the review, this sentence seems meaningless. I fail to see the relationship between the “distinct tension” mentioned and the hypnotic “complacency.” Of course, it could be me.
More annoying is the self-serving tone of most Sc Warne reviews and the constant insults aimed at the reading public. Is it any wonder that nobody reads the music reviews except those who already know the bands reviewed? It is true that Billy Joel is still the most cherished recording artist of the Notre Dame community. Is it logical that the legions of Billy Joel fans are going to run out and buy the next H. P. Zinker album when the review endorsing it infers that they are, at most, one step above the level of drooling cretins? There have been a number of reviews of good bands in Scholastic, but the reviewers have given the readers no real reasons to trust their views. After all, the Slint review has narrowed down the number of free-thinking, painfully hip, beyond-which-nothing-groovicr-can-be-conceived individuals on this campus to a mere 100 (97 when the Scholastic reviewers are not counted). This leaves several thousand wingtip shoe-sporting, wooden teeth-wearing Boston and Journey fans. Admittedly, there is a great deal of musical stagnation on this campus, but perhaps can we be a mite less self-congratulatory? Next time, sedate yourselves, think about how the world can actually be a nice place, and have some pity on your readers, we, the huddled, teeming hordes of ignorami. And leave the thesaurus at home.
Richard McBrien Senior
.	Zahm Hall
As the editor chiefly responsible for the music reviews published in Scholastic over the course of the past two semesters, I would like to respond to Mr. McBrien’s letter.
First, Scholastic does not have a policy of running reviews only
_____________
of alternative or W VFI-oriented album releases. The reason that so many of the albums reviewed are within the genre of alternative rock is that the writers who have expressed interest in writing for Scholastic are interested in alternative rock. As an editor, I would have been happy to run reviews of jazz, rap, classical, blues or any other of a number of styles of music which have been largely ignored by this publication in the past. While I might be hesitant to review music which can be heard on any Top 40 station (and therefore be easily judged by the readers for themselves), I would probably even publish reviews of that type of music. Unfortunately, I had no writers submit articles for publication on albums from any of these types of music. If there are any writers interested in writing on other types of music, I would love to see their articles run in Scholastic.
Second, the criticism of our reviews as “self-congratulatory” is a bit exaggerated. Although some may have been deserving of such criticism, of the 40 reviews of albums or performances run while I have been editor, I counted three articles which contain references to albums being overly commercial, four articles which contain “self-congratulatory” references and three articles which, one might say, insult the musical preference of some readers (some articles fell under more than one of the above categories). For the most part, though, reviews try to encourage the reader to investigate the album being reviewed.
Mr. McBricn states, “More annoying is the self-serving tone of most Scholastic reviews ...” Might I suggest that any music review is self-serving to some extent? The point of a review is for the critic to share his or her (expert?) opinion on a particular work with the reader in order that it might be better understood by the reader. While Mr. McBrien might construe this as self-serving to those who already know the music, I suggest that reviews are meant to be an * outlet through which readers might discover msuic which they don’t already know. Our writers are interested in new bands; sharing these new discoveries is one major purpose for running reviews.
I feel personally offended by the criticism of my review of H.P. Zinkcr’s new album. I can find no reference in that review which m ight in any way be construed as an insult to those who listen to non-altcrnative music. While I can understand that some readers may have been offended by Mr. Jotz’s dismissal of 99 percent of the campus as musically stagnant in his review of Slint, I would hope that they would also sec the point behind his cynicism.
As for the quality of the writing of reviews published in Scholastic, I realize that many reviews are peppered with adjectives which could only have come from a thesaurus - hopefully Mr. McBrien read the “Mad Lib Music Review” which was run in Sarcastic. (I will admit to writing that article - hopefully the Thought Police won’t get me.) That piece was meant to make fun of the overuse of adjectives and superlatives in many music reviews.
I am not insensitive to Mr. McBrien’s remarks. I would love nothing more than to have a staff of writers who all had different and diverse musical interests. I would also love to satisfy all the wishes of all of our readers all the time. Unfortunately, I can’t do that, and I have chosen to stick to what I know best and what I would hope might enlighten (sorry, self-congratulatory) a few others.
David J. Holsinger
Entertainment Editor Emeritus
3
APRIL 18, 1991
S
Nudity and Stupidity Abound
Surprise, Surprise, Surprise Miami Lowers Admissions Standards
Can this job get any easier? The University of Miami has lowered its admission standards in order to increase revenues, reports The Miami Hurricane. The Annual Report of Admissions cites “a sharp decline in selectivity” from 1989 to 1990. That’s an understatement that rivals “Notre Dame people like to wear Notre Dame clothes no matter how ugly they are.” The report stated that the University in 1990 rejected only 4.9 percent (four point nine, not fourty-nine) of their applicants and that the rale usually hovers around 9.9 percent. Make sure you remain seated for this one. Sixty percent of Miamians admitted last year had combined S.A.T. scores of 800 or below. Don’t forget to subtract the 200 free points for printing your fullname. (Obviously a few missed thatportion as well). Let’shear it for putting economics over education.
Princetonians Rush to Take Porn Class
Eight students stood in line on the first day of fall registration at Princeton University this spring to sign up for a course entitled, “Pornography and America: Textuality and Sensuality” according to the College Press Service. The first day of registration also happened to be April 1. The joke is that there was no such course. The Daily Princetonian pulled an April Fool’s joke on the campus by advertising the course. Rest assured that some of the embarrassed, perverted octet tried to pass off their reasoning as “Daddy wanted me to promote an interest in enriching the self with a less promoted sector of contemporary cinematic art.” Sickos!
Duke Celebrates NCAA Victory
Here’s another case of one of America’s finest institutions going down the dumper in terms of taste and intelligence. After winning the NCAA Basketball Championship, Duke students celebrated on campus with a traditional bonfire according to the Daily Kansan. Besides just throwing benches into the flames and singing fights songs, some over-zealous fans decided to take off their clothes, dance around the bonfire and take swigs of champagne PROVIDED B Y THE S CHOOL. One student was quoted as saying,“It’s just like basketball heaven. When I think of Duke... I think of basketball.” Well, when I think of Dork I think of....
Burn That Painting!
All right, one last case of extremely poor taste. And this is extreme. Artist Josef Schuetzenhoefer of Anne Arundel Community College was forced to take down an eight-foot oil painting containing several nudes according to the National On-Campus Report. The reason cited was that too many people were complaining about the painting as being offensive (and causing heart palpitations and nausea). The nudes were world “figures” Helmut Kohl, Lech Walesa, Margaret “Legs” Thatcher, Malcolm “billion-dollar butt” Forbes, and Polish Cardinal Josef “drop the habit” Glemp. This is one case where : freedom of expression should certainly be cutoff. Standing a little too close to those paint fumes, Mr. Schuetzenhoefer? Reports were : unclear as to whether or not the painting would be loaned to the
Snile.
□ '
Edited by Mike Owen
. 4
SCHOLASTIC
I
Dear Mr. Manners,
I was wondering whether or not you could answer me a question. I waltzed all the way down SMiCk road one day this past month to file an application to Scholastic. Much to my disappointment, an extremely attractive sports editor-type with a Massachusetts accent seemed a bit put off by the interest I had expressed. Healsodidn’tseem to want to help much. From this, I got the idea that the entire third floor of LaFortune is Notre Dame’s psuedo-intellectual, fake literary, hermaphroditic Greek organization. Is there any way for the rest of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s “community” to penetrate the walls which surround the ivory tower of Club Scholastic? Huh?
Molly McSmickley Junior, Holy Cross, Saint Mary’s College
Dear Ms. McSmickley,
Well, you’ve said quite a mouthful in that one little paragraph, Molly, so let’s just take this one step a time. Pay no attention to that sports editor-type. They’re all just a bunch of socially inverted stats-memorizing freaks. You say that he had a Massachusetts accent. Let’s be fair. All of Massachusetts does not speak that annoying drivel that only the Bostonians and pseudo-Bostonaburbians speak. If I were you I would have mocked him right back in that stupid little accent by saying, oh, something like “Your whole city is nothing but a cutesy colonial tourist trap filled with narrow minded Puritan-Socialists.”
Anyway, what was the point you were getting at? Oh I remember. You’re ticked because you were scoffed at and rejected from “Club Scholastic.” By calling those of us who work up here a “fake literary hermaphroditic Greek organization” you are indirectly insulting Mr. Manners, which does not go unanswered you bimbo. What I infer from your description is that you may have generalized that every publication on this campus is staffed by socially rejected clones devoted to exposing pressing issues such as how great it is to be here. No, Molly, the Macintosh™ mouses at Scholastic do not go “clique, clique, clique” when you try them out. Calling us a bunch of Narcissists - Off with your head, Molly McSmickley. By the way, I’d really like to see you waltz down Saint Mary’s road some time so be sure to let me know when you’re going to do it. Don’t you get dizzy?
Dear Mr. Manners,
I have a problem. No, it’s not really a problem it’s more of a pet peeve. I’m talking about people with hairy backs. Not just
APRIL 18, 1991
hairy, m ind you, but INTENSELY HAIRY, as in braiding quantities. Notice I said people because, as you know, it is still the Year of Womyn and we can’t let them (us) feel left out. Anyway, is there a genetic defect in these people? How does this happen? One time I was dancing with a boy and my hand accidently touched an absolute jungle of back hair. I freaked!
Or else I’ll see them at the beach or on the road crews with their names carved in it or something. Bleeeccchhh!! I’m getting grossed out just writing you this letter.
Enclosed is a clipping donated by my roommate’s boyfriend/ cave-dweller. We call him “Cro-Mag the hairbag.” Isn’t that funny? Maybe I could take over your job someday if you find me funny. Anyway, please, offer the world some of your divine wisdom and solve this national epidemic before I end up with Planet of the Apes children!
Sinead Nair, Freshperson, Wigfried Hall
Dear Sinead,
At this point I don’t know which is the lesser of two evils. The hariy-back problem or your oh-so-funny sense of humor. Hairiness is not that bad. Think of all the things you can do with extra hair in funny places. Who are you to claim a part of nature as being ugly? I’m glad you were considerate enough to recognize that this is still the Year of Women and that such aproblem can cross all borders and genders. I think a class on this may be in the works for next year entitled “Electrolysis and Notre Dame: On Diverging Paths?”
As for you humor, Sinead, there is none. You are far too easy to make fun of and that takes out the challenge of my career. Why should you be making fun of others when your name is Sinead Nair? I think your name indicates a little hair-o-phobia. Be nice to these people. Your clipping is about the sickest thing I’ve received in the mail so far and that says a lot. I can envision the problem, you do not have to share it with me.
Dear Readers:
As always, if you have a problem with rude behavior, just let me know. You will be assigned a code number, and we won’t ask your name. South Bend callers call 288-STOP. Now I’m lost again. Just write me a letter at:
Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail
All letters must be in calligraphy and written on personal stationary. Whining to Mr. Manners will no longer be tolerated.	□
5
Food, Folks and Fun
The McJordan Sandwich Hits Chicago
The other day I was in Chicago. It had been a while since my last brawl with a total stranger, so I went to the Windy City, found the only open parking spot and started a fight with the three million other people who wanted it. I got into a heated shoving match with a lady who didn’t look a day over seventy-five. She had the advantage of using an aluminum walker, so after about twenty minutes or so, I got a little winded. I let her have the lousy spot. I needed to replenish my bodily humors.
Now, next to a brawl with a stranger or a sharp Lego™ in my foot, there’s nothing that I love more than processed food in a styrofoam package. So I headed for the nearest McDonald’s. Iwas startled to find that the good folks at the Golden Arches have come up with a new food concept: The McJordan sandwich (available only in the greater Chicago metropolitan area).
This confused me because I remember when McDonald’s had the McRib sandwich. It was made of something that looked rib-like, and it even tasted sort of like a rib. I figured it was made with real ribs.
“Styrofoam licking good,” I’d say. “Wonder how they de-bone these here ribs without altering their aesthetic appeal.”
When I get a McJordan sandwich, am I supposed to think I’m actually eating Michael Jordan?
“That boy sure can jump,” I’d say. “Mighty tasty, loo.”
Do they expect me to believe that there’s enough Jordan to go around the entire Chicago area? I don ’ t know how long McDonald’s plans to offer this deal, but eventually, they’re going to have to start cutting the real Jordan with horse meat or something. Maybe Mr. Ed.
Also, aren’t there a few choicer cuts of meat to be found in the NBA? I mean, Jordan looks kind of gristly. People with bridgework had best watch out for this sandwich. Wouldn’t Kevin Duckworth make a better sandwich? (For those unfamiliar with Duckworth, he looks more like a soybean farmer than a professional basketball player.) The McDuckworth. Now there’s a food concept.
“Honey, I sure could go for a juicy McDuckworth. Take me to McDonald’s”
“OK. A McDuckworth and a large Coke. Would you like fries with that?”
Well, the questions keep coming, so I asked a courteous kid in a paper hat what the deal was with the McJordan. He had to get a manager. The manager explained it to me.
It seems that Michael Jordan badly needed a way to supplement his income. He wasn’t making enough millions as a ball player, so he signed over his personal dignity to McDonald’s for a few more. Of course, McDonald’s understands that poor kids who live in the inner city can ’ t afford Reebok Pumps unless they either sell crack or become professional athletes. That way, the poor kids will say, “There ain’t no way I’m gunna graduate high school, but if I eat enough of these maybe I’ll be able to jump as high as he can,” And the poor kids spend their money on styrofoam-packed sandwiches.
“Geez,” I said to the McDonald’s manager. “What kind of a deal is that?”
“That ain’t no deal,” he said. “That’s food, folks, and fun.”Q
Tim Rogers is returning from a manditory hiatus. Watch out, Student Activities.
6
SCHOLASTIC
Waiters Kick Off An Tostal
The late Bob Marley's band lends a reggae splash to spring
It’s springtime, which means it’s lime for people to go out on the quad, play frisbee and blare Bob Marley out their dorm windows (this last part seems to apply only to residents of Cavanaugh and Keenan halls). Possibly to halt the eternal North Quad reggae jam for a little bit, the good folks at An Tostal will be bringing you The Wailers, Bob Marley’s original band, to headline a concert at S tepan Center on Friday, Apri 119.
Although the charismatic reggae pioneer Bob Marley died from cancer in 1981, his backing band, The Wailers, has continued to play together at his behest. Singer/guitarist Junior Marvin explained, “Right before Bob died, he said: ‘Please keep the band together and concentrate on the quality of the songs.’” A tall request, some might say, but The Wailers have fared admirably. Reggae had spread to worldwide popularity even before the death of Bob Marley, and has now been worked into innumerable other forms of music.
Even “classic reggae” has not gone untouched, with forms
known as “dance hall” and combinations of reggae and rap becoming increasingly popular with younger reggae musicians. The Wailers are quite obviously linked closely with the classic form of reggae first made famous by Marley, and, although not untouched by the outside influences on reggae,
they have kept up the tradition of the music that made Marley the Third World’s first superstar.
The Wailers, known as “The Wailers Band” since the death of original drummer Carlton Barrett in a politically motivated murder in his native Jamaica in 1987, have recently released an album of original music entitled LD., and are touring the U.S. college circuitin supportof it. Although their lineup has changed considerably since the days of Marley, Peter Tosh, and Bunny Wailer, the new lineup promises rhythms as solid as the old lineup and equally solid guitar, key
The Wailers play at Notre Dame's “An Tostal Sun Splash” on Friday, April 19.
boards, and vocals. This new lineup consists of A ton “Family Man” Barret on bass, Junior Marvin on guitar and lead vocals, Earl “Wire” Lindo on organ, Andrew McIntyre on lead guitar, Irvin “Carrott” Jarrett on percussion, Earl Fitzsimmons on piano, Michael “Boo” Richards on drums and
percussion, and Al “Seko” Patterson on percussion. This combo, which has a wide range of musical experience outside of The Wailers as well - group members have worked with other reggae greats such as Jimmy Cliff and the Melody Makers, as well as with musicians such as Ike and Tina Turner and T-Bone Walker.
In addition to the release of The Wailers’ new album ID., the last year has also seen the re-release of many of Bob Marley and the Wailers’ earlier works, now remastered for C.D. Classics such as Natty Dread, Rastaman Vibration and many others originally
released on the Tuff Gong label have been remastered from the original tapes and reissued on C.D., a fact which bespeaks the timelessness of Bob Marley and the Wailers’ music.
In addition to The Waiters,- Friday’s concert/dance party (dubbed “An Tostal Sun Splash” in recognition of An Tostal and the annual Sun Spalsh reggae festival held in Kingston, Jamaica)
will also feature up and coming reggae artists Yaaba Griffiths and Traxx. Tickets for the concert are still available at the LaFor-tune Information Desk for $10. The concert will begin at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, April 19— be sure to catch it.	□
by Scholastic Staff
APRIL 18, 1991

Tibi® Nsiss
Notre Dame's Campus Band Extravaganza
i 6	here I was: my heart was pounding,
; JL and my blood flowed, steaming, i	through my palpatating jugualar. I had to re's	member that it would be ill advised to choke
j up like this in public. I forgot the words ...” 1 The S.U.B.- sponsored annual campus •	bands event, The Nazz, went down and
'	rocked out at Stepan Center this past Satur-
:; day night, April 13, from 7:00 p.m. to 12:00 j a.m. An goodly mix of artists- musicians, ‘h	songwriters, and, well, others, gathered
under the Dome and presented an imprests	sive ensemble.
j Bone Forest, the sweethearts of the eve-. j ning, amazed the crowd with powerful bass and loads of distortion. They were chosen by the judges’ panel to be the band to open for The Guess Who. Headless Torso, said to h be “Bone Forest’s pseudo-industrial alter {i ego,” performed an interesting and well-done mix of songs and sounds to match their s j jumping around on the stage. Along similar j lines, Chronic Desire put on a polished and tight collection of metalish sound with ij! rather admirable guitar solos.
£	S.Y.R., which included a sizeable lineup,
including both male and female vocals, ji showed up appropriately dressed to the nines, and performed a set including origi-
1! nals and covers ranging from R.E.M. to i Fleetwood Mac. Heaven’s Trail sported a ; lineup of talented musicians, including Don McGahn and a wig-clad Glenn Fogarty. They performed a set of originals, including a dutiful power ballad. The Methatones did Lou Reed covers and featured John-Paul Checkett, letting down his hair, adopting a New York attitude, and wearing sequin jacket. NAZUS also performed as a tight, j powerful metal band.
TheFiveO’Clock Shadows took thestage j and the complete attention of the crowd.
Their set, along with their individual sound, was a fresh and notable listening experience. Ice Nine, Vonnegutian scholars that they
are, put on a good performance; it was surprising to hear a woman vocalist do justice to a fIREHOSE song. The Bedspins were hyper, energetic, and impressive.
Tartar Gun, graduating gods of Notre Dame, appeared with painted bodies and kept their regulars as happily entertained as
usual. Their funkish tunes and awe-inspiring stage presence were anything but surprising. Thee Bitchogs, “thrusted on” with fifteen minutes of grunge rock, including the best cover of the night, “Karma Chameleon.” Wow. Smear includes the voice of Jason L. Winslade and the sounds of Dave Holsinger and Joe Cannon, a promising freshman guitarist who has
played with Tartar Gun in the past, and is associated with Smear and Doghaus. They took over with their haunting and strange, but nonetheless entertaining music. Doghaus ended the evening with an appropriate and resounding Amen of noisy hardcore.
Good Question began their set with Jimi Hendrix’s “Fire;” a frantic and hyper cover which fit these guys well. The lead vocalist wonlhe respect of the crowd with his gymnastic ability,managing to jump out into the crowd at least a billion times. Jester, one of the campus’ more notable bands, began with, in keeping with their tradition, a Joplin cover. They went over well with the audience; not only with the regular Jester crowd, but with others as well. Stella sure can belt
out a tune.
Sister Spleen, who have changed their
name to Crust, consisted of guitars, a violin, a piccolo, female vocals, and a male vocal. They ended up sounding pretty dam good. The mellowness continued as Jeff Sepeta, “The Weasel” himself, better known for the night as Castaways, appeared with only a keyboard and occasional help from Jason
Paul Webb
The Methatones, with John-Paul Checkett at the mike, entertained the crowd at the Nazz.
Winslade. His songs, all originals, were lovely but somewhat sad. Jeff ranked among the night’s most memorable voices. Other bands included Door Knob Lore, covering Doors songs, and The Foot Loops, featuring Jim DoppkeandTony Graffeo displaying their true musicianship with funny covers, originals and alternating instruments.
S.U.B thanks and congratulates all.of the bands who took part for their participation and enthusiasm. Jeff Kranig, of S.U.B. said, “It all went smoothly. I was impressed with the quality of this year’s Nazz; it went above my expectations. I also think we had a good variety of bands this year.”	□
by Liz Graner
Liz Graner is Scholastic’s entertainment
editor and a member of the Foot Loops.
SCHOLASTIC
Live the Tradition Together
Subscribe to Scholastic
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name.j
Address_____________,_________i
City State Zip	I
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine	i
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556	i
Enclosed is a check for $25.00*years = $	'
APRIL 18,1991	9
■■■
For the Love of Philosophy
Michael Loux resigns to return to teaching in the philosophy department
When Michael J. Loux trades his dean’s desk for a podium, an eight J	year chapter in his life — and the
'	University’s—will come to a close. Loux,
the L A. O’Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will resign the deanship by the beginning of the 1991-92 academic year.
j Citing his love of philosophy, Loux !] wishes not so much to quit the deanship as ’ to resume research and teaching. There are j “things I wanted to say as a philosopher. If :	I didn’t get back soon... it would have been
!	impossible to get back to being a scholar-
5 teacher,” said Loux.
Being Dean was “more than a full-time job,” he said and pursuing philosophy concurrently was “difficult.”
Since 1983, Loux has	overseen Notre
i	Dame’s largest college:	there are 2,558
;	undergraduates currently	enrolled in Arts
;	and Letters.
j “I’ve thought about leaving for the last ■	couple of years,” Loux	said, especially
since his temporary leave in 1989-90. He j said that Provost Timothy O’Meara, :	however, convinced him to stay a few more
:	years.
? Now, in 1991, Loux felt that the “end of ;	this year would be an appropriate time” to
■!	step down. “At the end of eight years, I’ve
accomplished many of the things I wanted to do.”
And he did much —according to ■; O’Meara, Loux provided “remarkable leadership to the college” in die 1980’s.
lI Looking back to his 1983 assumption of i the deanship, Loux said, “All of us wanted i to strengthen the faculty (and) establish a j program of faculty development.”
10
“There were a number of (curricular) issues bearing on the undergraduate program we wanted to address. We’ve made real progress on all three fronts,” he said.
Indeed, “a host of new projects” were
initiated under Loux to fortify the undergraduate program. The Modem Language Program was partitioned into three departments, and the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Center for
Paul Webb
Michael Loux, current dean of Arts and Letters, will be teaching in the London Program next fall and then taking a leave of absence to concentrate on metaphysics and Aristotle's philosophy.
SCHOLASTIC
the Philosophy of Religion, the Gender Studies Program and the Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values were all established to augment the College.
Loux points to the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts as an attempt to enhance faculty development. With a permanent grant, the program makes it “a lot easier for the faculty to carry out their projects in teaching and research,” he said.
Faculty improvement is further illustrated by the facts that 18 endowed chairs were filled — and 60 percent of current College faculty — were appointed during Loux’s tenure.
This latter feat partially involved a five-year plan, now underway in its second year, which aims to add six to eight faculty members per year. Loux hopes it will “enrich the existing departments and resolve our difficulties with enrollment.”
Loux described the “large influx of undergraduate enrollment” in the college as his most serious difficulty. Although he finds it “heartening” to see such interest in
Arts and Letters, he said that the high enrollment proves burdensome for all.
However, “We see the day when we’ll have it under control,” he said. A lower student enrollment and higher numbers of faculty offer grounds for hope for the future.
Loux perceives a second problem, though — more removed from faculty influence and pervasive of the entire university.
While he recognizes Notre Dame’s sense of social community, Loux laments that it is not “animated and sustained by a... passion for the world of ideas.” Too many talented undergraduates, he said, are too willing to separate their lives in and out of the classroom and leave behind classroom concerns for the rest of their lives.
Without a student body “consumed by the world of knowledge and culture ... the notion of a Catholic intellectual tradition will never come to fruition,” Loux said.
The College Fellow's Office, he said, offers one means of fostering an intellectual
community among campus undergraduates. The office’s “atmosphere of student and faculty interaction,” plus additional seminars and senior theses for all undergraduates, would help inspire that passion for ideas, he said.
Dean Loux said he is leaving his position feeling “tremendously positive. I’ve learned things I never would have about people, institutions and myself,” he said.
He also appreciated the “opportunity to be a part of a very important project — the building of a Catholic university.” However, “I’ve never viewed myself as a lifetime administrator. I always believed I’d return to the life of the classroom.”
Thus, Loux will begin his return to being a “scholar-teacher” by teaching in the London Program this fall. Further, a leave of absence next spring will allow him to concentrate on his specialty, metaphysics, and to begin a book on Aristotle’s philosophy. □
by David Ziringer
Committee searching for new Arts and Letters dean
A search committee has been elected by the college board to find a replacement for Michael J. Loux, dean of the College of the'Arts and Letters.
Provost Timothy O’Meara, chairman of this committee, said, “My hope is that a new dean will be in place by September.”
Loux has indicated that he wishes to step down by the beginning of the new academic year. <
The committee, said member Charles Rosenberg, chair of the department of art, art history, and design, has met twice and is in a “very preliminary stage.”
Nomination recommendations for the new dean are being solicited by the committee through a letter sent to all members of the Arts and Letters faculty.
The letter, which Rosenberg said forms a
“network” by which potential candidates are to be attracted, was issued April 4.
All letters of nomination from the Arts and Letters faculty are by April 19.
Once nominations are submitted, the committee will interview candidates and eventually offer their final recommendations to the president. The president will then select the new dean.
O’Meara said that despite hopes of a quick appointment, it can sometimes take from six months to two years to fill such positions. He said it will be a “difficult job to fill the position. My experience shows there are very few people ready, willing, and able” to approach a dean’s duties.
A dean, he said, should be accomplished in one of the college’s fields and be sensitive to Notre Dame’s Catholic identity
and affirmative action goals.
Also, a dean must have the “individual character and experience to discern problems and work towards the solution,” and be able to “argue for resources” needed, O’Meara said.
O’Meara feels he chairs a “fine committee ... (of) some of our most respectable faculty members.”
Members include Father Richard McBrien from the theology department and Arts and Letters j unior Mark Rahiya, neither of whom would comment on the committee.
Other faculty committee members are George Howard and Naomi Meara, both from the psychology department, and John Van Engen, from the history department. □
by David Ziringer
APRIL 18, 1991
11
And you thought it was safe to go back to the water ...
Saturday, April 20th, get ready to •':■//•.'■'
. accomplish next to
, nothing ... /	;	'■
11:00 am - 7:00 pm -2nd annual
Hogstock, Hog Hill
, (formerly Holy Cross) :
12:00pm-??? -j/X’ Fisher Regatta and Picnic, /1 '\/-v
> Saint Mary's Lake
An Tostal is Coming, so pray for sun ... L
Foie More Information, ; talU.L L-
On Campus ' > ! ; '
LaFortune Desk 239^8128. ' ; / 3
SUB 239-7757/ i :	i
SiuteFilmHotline 239-7361 LJ/ Campus'.Events 239-5110 / -/ : / JACC Ticket Info. 239-7354^ t / > ND Menu Line. 283-FO0D 5 -/■ ' ; "t. . y < / - \ \	' f' : '	\ $ '
f\ <r - ' " -
Theatres : ■ 2 .•/>/;//•
IPO Center259-0414 /	;
Wt^ateTKeatreZ^^
To;wn! & Country 259-9090 ;;; J University Park East 277-7336 University P?rk.^
Thursday, April 18
Zimbabwe Independence Day 1775-Paul Revere made his illustrious ride, inspiring generations of Beastie Boys to come.
1916-The Irish Easter Rebellion
Birthdays:
Infamous attorney Clarence Darrow Sociological nightmare Max Weber Events:
7:00 pm-Baseball vs. U. of Michigan, Covaleski Stad.
7:30 pm-lecture-"Woman, Structure, and Creativity,"O'Laughlin Aud.
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie- "Heathers,"
Cushing, $2
8:00 pm- faculty piano recital-William Cenry, Snite
8:00 pm-SAINT MARY'S THEATREINDEPENDENCE, O'LAUGHLIN
Friday, April 19
Crawfish Festival, Biloxi, MS.
World Grits Festival, St. George, SC.
Birthdays:
All-around goofball Don Adams
Events:
SENIOR FORMAL
7:00 & 9:45 pm- film-"Henry & June," Snite, $2
7:30 pm- Folk Dancing, Saint Mary's Clubhouse
7:30 & 11:00 pm- movie-"Dances with Wolves," Cushing, $2
8:00 pm- SAINT MARY'S THEATRE-INDEPENDENCE, O'LAUGHLIN
Saturday, April 20
Family Day, South Africa
1852- Women's State Temperance Society established
Grand Prix Catfish Races, Greenville, MS.
Events:
11:00 am-7:00 pm- HOGSTOCK
12:00 pm- Fisher Hall Regatta/Picnic 7:00 & 9:45 pm- film- "Henry & June,"
Snite, $2
7:30 & 11:00 pm- movie- "Dances with Wolves," Cushing, $2
8:00 pm- Africa Night, Stepan Center 8:00 pm-SAINT MARY'S THEATREINDEPENDENCE, O'LAUGHLIN
Sunday, April 21
Girl Scout Leader's Day
Birthday of Rome
Kindergarten Day
National Lingerie Week Begins
Birthdays:
Royal Person Queen Elizabeth
The man who only takes roles with his own first name, Tony Danza
Events:
AN TOSTAL BEGINS
11:00 am- St. Ed's Charity Carnival, Fieldhouse Mall
11:15 am- Earth Day Tree Dedication and Campus Bands, Fieldhouse Mall
2:30 pm- SAINT MARY'S THEATREINDEPENDENCE, O'LAUGHLIN
Monday, April 22
1954- McCarthy Hearings televised
Earth Day first observed, 1970
Women's International Bowling
Congress Annual Meeting
Birthdays:
Marxist Lenin
Events:
4:00 pm- Friends of the Snite
Reception, Snite
7:00 & 9:30 pm- SMC movie-
"The Breakfast Club,"
Carroll Aud., $1
Senior Month Kickoff, Coach's
7:30 pm- film- "Men," Cushing, $2
Tuesday, April 23
1954- Hank Aaron hit his
first home run
Book Day & Lover's Day, Spain
Birthdays:
The tappin' Shirley Temple Black
"Janet," Joyce DeWitt
Smokin' Bill Shakespeare
Events:
World's longest ice cream sundae, across quad
6:00-9:00 pm- Senior Special
Night, Macri's
7:00 pm- Baseball vs. Indiana, Covaleski Stad.
7:00 pm- film- "Chushingura,"
Snite, $2
7:00 & 9:30 pm- SMC movie- "Sixteen
Candles," Carroll Aud., $1
12
SCHOLASTIC
Wednesday, April 24
Pooram, India
National Llama Show, Omaha, NE.
The Running of the Rodents, Louisville, KY.
Birthdays:
The man who could fit a single action into 250 pages, Anthony Trollope
The woman who could fit no point into 250 pages, Shirley MacLaine
The woman whose nose does the pointing for her, Barbara Streisand
Events:
4:00-6:00 pm- Scavenger Hunt, Haggar, SMC
6:00 pm- Baseball vs. Indiana St. U., Covaleski Stad.
7:00 & 9:30 pm- SMC movie-
"Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure,"
Carroll Aud., $1
7:00 pm- film- "Montenegro,"
Snite, $2
8:10 pm- COTH PRESENTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
9:00 pm- film- "In the Year of the Pig," Snite, $2
Thursday, April 25
Missouri Valley Quilt Show, Savannah, MO.
Washington State Apple
Blossom Festival
Birthdays:
Notorious Irish fan Oliver Cromwell
The croonin' Ella Fitzgerald
Events:
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie-
"Say Anything," Cushing, $2
8:10 pm- COTH PRESNTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
9:00 pm- Senior Finale At
Beacon Bowl
QUESTIONS? COMMENTS? DIRTY JOKES? UPCOMING EVENTS OR DISTRACTIONS?
We welcome your input to our literary masterpiece. If you have a Distraction that you would like us to publicize, please drop us a line at Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, or give us a ring at 239-7569. Our shiny, happy staff would love to hear from you. Please leave a message on our groovy machine if we're not in. Hang-ups are for stupid people.
Friday, April 26
Colorado celebrates a day in honor of its favorite convicted cannibal, Alfred E. Packer ... YUM ...
Heart of America Single Square Dancing Association Festival, Oklahoma City, OK.
Hug an Australian Day
Birthdays:
Carol Burnett
John James Audobon
12:00-2:00 pm- SENIOR SUITCASE PARTY, Senior Bar
7:30 & 9:30 pm- film- "Icycle Thief," Snite, $2
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie-
"The Rescuers Down Under,"
Cushing, $2
8:10 pm- COTH PRESENTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
Saturday, April 27
Stockton Asparagus Festival, Stockton, CA.
Downhome Music Festival, Mountain view, AR.
Birthdays:
County coroner gone copier salesman, Jack Klugman
The man who's buried in
Grant's tomb, Ulysses S. Grant ll:00-l:30pm- Senior Blue & Gold
Game Picnic
Blue & Gold Game
An Tostal Picnic
7:30 & 9:30 pm- film- "Icycle Thief," Snite, $2
8:00 & 10:30 pm- movie-
"The Rescuers Down Under,"
Cushing, $2
8:10 pm- COTH PRESENTS
THE GOOD WOMAN OF SETZUAN, WASHINGTON HALL, $5
?ST^
YUP, KIDS, FINALS ARE ? :. COMIN’ UP, BUT WE < DON’T CARE, DO WE? > SO COME NEGLECT YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES- IT’S FOR A GOOD CAUSE ,.. ? -
KISSING BOOTH.... .. FORTUNE < TELLER?..... FOOD ..... CARICATURIST ..... CLOWNS ..... AND TONS O’ FUN FER EVERYONE
DUNKTANKSCHDEDULE < .TIME?' REPRESENTING DUNKEE
1:00-1:30 CAVANAUGH MIKO FAY ? 1:36-2:00 . McCANDLESS ANNE MARIE I 2:00-2:30 . ST. ED’S X I, X;: THE NOBLE -v ?':■'A?■'.?'■ ? ? PR. GENE'GORSKI 2:30-3:00' SIEGFRIED; ' ANNE “.THE A -X:\';.; ■ A? ? ?.:?-	PARTY BUSIER” ? ■
a .’??< a?	a"
3:00-3:30 ZAHM I\ A- ? -: TIM “POPS”:? X? '??? A?x?;?v?Xmuliek:?X?
3:30-4:00 : KNOTT .MAUREEN??" ?.'??<? ■ -CONOLLY.
■ 4:00-4:30: P.W.	' JEN KARAFA ?
4:30-5:00 RE. > P
5:00-5:30 B. PA? ??3 ,.?SUSAN:X??XR ? .' BOHDAN
FORFURTiW"'? informAti^ TONYPORdELLI^ FIUStLS©
i j [
1
i
i 1
!'
1
APRIL 18, 1991
13

Notre Dame Australia
David Link, dean of the Law School, will serve for one or two years as the inaugural president of ND A
They may not have a leprechaun or a fight song, or even a statue of Mary atop a Golden Dome, but they do have a University of Notre Dame.
What? A Notre Dame without a football team? Yes! It’s a new catholic university — Notre Dame Australia (NDA).
founders looked to its Indiana counterpart for “advice and example” throughout the new
Australia’s first catholic university was officially established in July 1989. NDA
university’s planning stages.
A committee of top Notre Dame officials, headed by University President Rev. Edward A. Malloy, journeyed to Australia to meet with local planners and serve as consultants on this project.
Malloy said the Australia institution would
academic years
ourtesyo
David Link says of his forthcoming presidency at NDA, “I will set a plan, hire the initial faculty, recruit students, watch it

start, find a long-term president and then come back.”
be linked to its American namesake in “a friendly, independent relationship.” However, there are to be no legal or financial ties between the two institutions.
NDA will be independently financed through student fees, endowments, and income from commercial investments —
with grants and loans contributed by the Australian government providing students
with financial aid.
Although the universities are
autonomous, close professional and personal relationships are to link the two Notre Dames. The NDA board hopes to investigate student and staff interchanges, joint research programs, joint staff appointments and the dovetailing of
and courses, academic credit transfer, joint appointments to boards of trustees, and the development of alumni contracts with its American prototype.
Father Malloy commented on the benefits of this relationship by
saying,
our
association with NDA will give us an educational window on an increasingly important region of the world, the Pacific rim.”
Although NDA has no students, campus, or classrooms as yet, it plans to enroll its first class by January 1992. Starting with an initial enrollment of 400 students, the university is expected to be serving 2,000 students by the year 2001.
It has been proposed that NDA will eventually enroll a total of 10,000 students: 8,000 undergraduates and 2,000 graduates.
Five colleges will be incorporated in the university at its. foundation — Arts and Sciences, Business and Management, Education, Law, and Medicine and Health Sciences.
Tuition is projected to range from $6,500 to $9,750. This figure may not seem expensive when it is compared to the $15,755 tuition at Notre Dame — which recently ranked 33rd in a national listing of the most expensive private universities in the United States.
However, Australians are accustomed to public universities, which cost much less than NDA will. The only other private university in all Australia, Bond University, is a relatively new institution. Yet, it is already experiencing financial trouble — partially because its tuition rate is higher than that of Australian public universities.
As part of the attempt to insure NDA’s success as a private university, its Board of Governors and University Trustees named David T. Link, dean of the Notre Dame Law School, their inaugural president.
In July 1991, Link is scheduled to take a leave of absence from the Law School and eaKe up residence in Fremantle, Western Australia — site of the NDA campus.
Although the actual length of his
SCHOLASTIC
presidency has not yet been determined, he is required to stay for at least one year and no more than two.
Link, who has headed the Notre Dame Law School since 1975, is charged with the responsibility of developing a long-range plan to establish NDA’s academic quality and Catholic character.
“I will set a plan, hire the initial faculty, recruit students,'watch it start, find a longterm president, and then come back,” he said.
Notre Dame Australia is to be built in Fremantle, a Victorian seaport city which was recently revitalized for the America’s Cup sailing competition. This port of
22,000 is highlighted by historic hotels, shops and restaurants — and is just a few miles away from the major city of Perth, according to Notre Dame officials who visited it as part of the consulting committee.
The climate is comparable to that of Southern California — a significant difference between the two Notre Dames. Many Notre Dame students will undoubtedly be attracted by the proposed exchange programs.
Dean Link said of the campus: “The campus site is absolutely beautiful. It’s on the Indian Ocean. It’s a long, bcauti ful, white sand beach. People wonder if we would be able to attract students to the campus, but I
questioned whether we would be able to attract them to class.”
Link also added that NDA’s first student exchange program with Indiana’s Notre Dame would most likely “take place in the fall of 1992, depending on the availability of sufficient residential housing... at the latest by fall of 1993.”
So, as developments continue, Notre Dame students should prepare to leave their footballs behind, buy their Foster’s, and cheer on the football team — Australian Rules footbal 1, that is. See you Down Under!
□
by Heidi Toboni
The campus of NDA, which is located on the coast of the Indian Ocean, is expected to be ready for Notre Dame exchange students by 1992-93. Link thinks it will be more of a problem to get students to go to class than to come to the university.
APRIL 18, 1991
15
Hogstock II:
The legacy lives on...
Holy Cross Hall is no longer around, but the spirit of its inhabitants continues
T ate April is upon us, it’s the time of year A-/ when Notre Dame comes to life after the long, cold winter — An Tostal, bookstore basketball, Fisher Regatta, and for the second year, Hogstock, a day-long music festival which is scheduled to begin shortly after the Fisher Regatta on Saturday. For the former residents of Holy Cross Hall however, Hogstock is more than just a music fest; it is the legacy of the place they once called home.
Holy Cross Hall was demolished last summer, due to its delapidated condition after being part of campus for one hundred years, the last 40 of which were spent as a residence hall. Hogstock was originally organized by the residents of the dorm as a sort of last hurrah — something special and memorable for the whole campus. According to Andy Hilger, last year’s coordinator, “We were looking for a way to go out with a bang. The dorm pulled together, and we came up with a lot of different ideas. A few guys, like Dave Geist, were involved with campus bands, so we decided on an outdoor concert.” The university’s Office of Student Activities was very cooperative.
Like Fisher Regatta, Hogstock was not part of An Tostal; Holy Cross had to pay for
the event themselves. Rob Hays, former Vice President of Holy Cross stated, “Because the dorm was closing, we were in a good financial position. We didn’t have to
"I’ll never b e< a plaid-clad alum'’ showing ;;my kids where daddy lived. There will be no tangible focal point/ since the larg-est aspect of my college lifeisgone." ’ ■ y!.
worry about saving any money. We spent the remainder of the dorm’s budget to finance Hogstock.”
Hogstock began shortly after the regatta. The stage was set up on Holy Cross field so
that the crowd would not have to leave the area of St. Mary’s Lake. The turnout was phenomenal, and residents of the dorm added special touches such as passing out fresh flowers and setting up a pig pen for the dorm’s mascot hogs. Tie-dye shirts were sold to provide extra funds for the event, as well.
Everyone was excited about the success of the event. According to Dave Geist, last year’s master of ceremonies and Hogstock II coordinator, “Since the response was so favorable, the guys thought it would be great to make it a tradition. A lot of people thought that nothing could top the first, but this year, I knew I had to organize another one.” Most Hogs in fact, love the idea of Hogstock’s becoming an annual event.
It’s taken a great deal of planning and organization to make Hogstock II a reality. Since there is no longer a dorm, the event obviously could not be funded by Holy Cross. Geist gratefully acknowledges the assistance of Hall Presidents’ Council in footing the bill. “Hogstock is not currently a part of An Tostal, therefore we get no money from the committee. Each dorm is picking up a portion of the cost.” The future of Hogstock is in question since the only
SCHOLASTIC
The cornerstone of Holy Cross shows that the	campus, the guys get to-
building stood for over 100 years.
true Hogs leftatNotre Dame are juniors and seniors. (The dorm did not accept freshmen during its last year.) One Holy Cross man feels, “Its sad to think that most freshmen don’t know that Holy Cross existed. In a little over a year, the last Hogs will be gone. It’s important to us that the dorm be remembered.” Hogstock is a means to that end.
Ideally, the event willbecome part of An Tostal after the last residents of Holy Cross graduate. Geist would like to see Hogstock become the Stepan picnic on the last Saturday of An Tostal. He believes that event is perfect “because it’s outdoors and bands f usually play for the picnic anyway.”
The destruction of their dorm has forced | these 'men to split up and adjust to foreign I- environments. Bill Kirk, former rector of Holy Cross and undergraduate resident from 1980-81 describes the decision to close the dorm and redistribute its inhabitants. “The dorm was in bad shape, they kept putting off closing it from year to year. When the decision became final, student housing was very helpful. They tried to make it as easy as possible on the guys. Father Lardner, the rector of Grace Hall was especially gener
ous. He cleared two entire sections for us.” Each dorm cleared a specified number of rooms for Holy Cross men. The system then worked like room picks, with a lottery and class preference. Marty Foos a junior Hog living in St. Edward’s Hall said, “Room picks were not easy but for the most part most of us got to stay with our closest friends.”
No matter where they are scattered, on campus or off, the former residents of Holy Cross still think of themselves as a unit. When asked about the dorm with which they identify, the overwhelming answer was, “We’re still Hogs. We always will be.” While there have been no formally recognized Holy Cross reunion events on
gether fairly often for “Hogfests” — informal parties where they can catch up with old friends and share common problems and experiences. In arranging these parties, the Hogs rely primarily on word of mouth. They find this means of communication is most effective.
The residents admit that they miss the closeness of their dorm. Brett Schutt, an off-campus junior feels, “The environment of Holy Cross was great. The dorm was very light — much closer than any of us have experienced. Maybe it was the isolation, but on those cold winter nights when no one wanted to walk across campus to go somewhere, you really got a chance to bond with your friends in the dorm. We were like a big family on the other side of the lake.”
Some other Hog traditions which are still observed also help perpetuate the dorm’s identity. Many former inhabitants still sit in Holy Cross’s designated tables under “The Last Supper” in South Dining Hall. Steve Simonich, a senior from Holy Cross who is currently a resident assistant in Morrissey, still plays basketball at Moreau Seminary during Holy Cross’ time, Tuesdays from 10 to 12. “It’s funny,” said Simonich, “I get
leased by guys from Morrissey and Holy Cross. If I play during Holy Cross time, I’m a traitor to Morrissey. If I play during Morrissey’s time, I’m a traitor to Holy Cross.”
Many Hogs describe another yearly tradition which continued this year. “Every December, we’d all dress up in suits and ties and walk, en masse from Holy Cross to the dining hall. There’d be two hundred guys converging on the place. Once we were in, we’d go to our normal seats, eat, and then stand up on the tables and start singing Christmas carols as loudly and as badly as • possible. The whole event would end by singing the hall fight song.”
Most Holy Cross men have been able to strike a balance between their old and new homes. In Marty Foos’ opinion, “Dorm identity depends on the person. People who become really involved with their new dorm are more easily assimilated. I’m still a Hog at heart, but I’m becoming a St. Ed’s man too, by participating in these dorm activities.”
Of all ihe Hogs left on campus, those in the Holy Cross sections of Grace Hall maintain the highest degree of Holy Cross spirit. The hall flag is proudly on display, as well as pieces of the walls, bricks from the building, and tons of photographs. Yet even in those sections, there are Holy Cross men who are current or future Grace R.A.’s and dorm representatives. Due to the closeness and spirit of the sections, some antagonism has developed between the Hogs and the dorm natives. Rob Hayes explains, “They get their cheap shots in every once in a while, but on the whole, the Grace guys have been pretty sympathetic.”
Jon Peppetli, who has recently been selected as an R.A. in Zahm Hall, lives in a comer of the dorm with five other Holy Cross guys. “We were like refugees in a certain sense. No one wanted to leave Holy Cross; we just couldn’t see the logic. We’ve gotten over it now and have become members of Zahm Hall, but we identify with both dorms, not one or the other.”
A large portion of the Hogs decided that adjusting to a new dorm environment would have been too difficult and agreed to move off-campus. Brett S chutt, former resident of “The Nine,” Notre Dame’s former largest and best-known room, currently lives in Lafayette Square with seven of his room-
APRIL 18, 1991
17
Scholastic File Photo
“The Nine,” formerly Notre Dame’s largest dorm room was sought after by every resident in the hall.
alum’ showing my kids where daddy lived. There will be no tangible focal point, since the largest aspect of my college life is gone.” This has obviously been hard for Holy Cross to accept, but these men have been very persistent and strong and have . taken it very well.
They have resolved themselves to accept the changes and make the best of it. Rob Hayes believes, “It wasn’t the building but the people. We were lucky to have had the chance to experience Holy Cross.”
Opinions vary as to what should be done with Holy Cross Hill and field. Most Hogs want it to be left intact. It would be terrible for
mates from last year. “We all would’ve liked to have moved off-campus senior year. We wanted to try and keep “The Nine” for our junior year. The closing of the dorm sped up the process. Since we couldn’t slay for our junior year, we dicided to move off a year ahead of schedule.” The off-campus Hogs who, together with Grace, form the hub of Holy Cross activity, are very concerned with keeping Holy Cross identity alive. They organize events, invite Holy Cross alumni to stay with them on football weekends, and provide a place where guys can relate to one another. In fact, Andy Hilger, who now lives on Rex Street with three other Holy Cross men, hinted at plans for an off-campus hall formal. “It’s crucial that the Hogs still have a place to get together.”
While the Holy Cross guys have, on the whole, adjusted very well to an unfortunate situation, there is still a great deal of remorse apparent in their voices when they discuss the loss of their dormitory. Many described the sadness they felt while driving away from the hall at the end of last year, knowing they’d never see it again. When walking
past Holy Cross Hill now, one Hog asks that his companions observe a moment of silence in honor of what once was. While it is said in a jocular manner, a hint of seriousness pervades the request.
Most Holy Cross men admit that it was very difficult to walk past Holy Cross Hill for the first time this year. “Something is obviously missing. It looks wrong and it feels wrong,” Steve Perkins said. Perkins added that what’s most difficult for him is seeing the path that leads to where the dorm once stood. “Three years of my life were spent there; its like watching your house being torn down. It’s not a good feeling.” Many still expect to see the dorm there. Dave Geist explains, “It brings back a lot of memories. There’s a bit of disappointment and also a bit of happiness every time you walk past the hill. Il’s a difficult feeling to describe.”
Perkins agrees, “Unless you lived there, you can never understand the loss. Holy Cross really was a special place.” This sense of loss is echoed perfectly in the thoughts of one of the more sentimental Hogs, “It’s weird to know that in ten years I won’t be able to go back to my dorm. I’ll never be a plaid-clad
them to see a new building standing in the place of their dorm. Brett Schult, in his own words, would like to see the place done justice. “The Hall was there for a hundred years. It deserves some sort of respect.”
While no memorial could fully convey the sentiment of those who lived there, many Hogs would like to see a plaque acknowledging the fact that friendships were made there, good times had, the ups and downs of life shared. The Notre Dame community should never forget that Holy Cross Hall was home to three generations of students.
The Holy Cross spirit is amazing. It has j faced many struggles but has been well- , maintained. If it is true that the people are | far more important than a tangible structure,	i
Holy Cross Hall is alive and well at Notre Dame, and in the memories of the many men who experienced it over the years. When you’re sitting on the field singing along on Saturday afternoon, look up on the hill and remember what was once there. That’s all the men of Holy Cross ask. □
. by JoAnne Laffey
< 18
SCHOLASTIC
A Final Bow
After the production of 'The Good Woman of Setzuan/ Professor Syburg will retire after many years at Notre Dame
In less than a month, the Notre Dame
Communication and Theatre Department will bid farewell to one of its most productive professors, directors and scholars, Associate Professor Fredric Syburg. Syburg will conclude his 37 years of instruction at Notre Dame by directing “The Good Woman of Setzuan,’’ a play by Bertolt Brecht. Over the decades, Syburg’s contributions range from obvious to sublime.
Professor Syburg received a degree in English from Lbras College in Dcbuke, Iowa. Even as a young man, his inclinations toward the theatre were too strong to ignore. “By the time I started college after World War II, I had decided that I wanted to teach on the college level. I had gone into my education with the notion that I would teach English, but by the time I completed my undergraduate education I decided to shift into theatre work. In my college there was a very close relationship between English and theatre, more so than is found in many institutions. The differences between English education and theatre were pretty indistin
APRIL 18, 1991
guishable. Since I came to Notre Dame it’s been almost exclusively involvement in theatre work. The involvement with the English department has not been as intense.”
Professor Syburg never actually realized an attraction to drama: theatre had appeal to him from the beginning. “I really can’t rememberanytimethatlwasn’tinterestedin theatre. It goes back to my childhood. I think it was my work in plays in college that made me decide that I wanted to go into educational theatre.”
Although Professor Syburg focused his efforts on directing, he explained that directing, or any other position of creativity in the theatre requires acting. “I am an actor. It is the theatre work itself, whatever it is you do, whether directing, acting or designing. Actually, I started here as the technical director. You do theatre, that’s the main thing.”
Professor Syburg has realized a long and satisfying career filled with thrilling highs but also with times of little inspiration. “I think that the most satisfying thing is simply
watching students grow as participants in theatre. As actors and actresses, working backstage, becoming involved in theatre work and seeing its significance and its value and growing as people. The theatre provides that kind of experience for students. And I’ve also had the opportunity to watch some of our students go on and do interesting things after they’ve- left us.” Syburg humbly omitted praise he received from author Joseph Heller on a finely staged production of “We Bombed in New Haven.”
Professor Syburg chuckled at the thought of career low points. Although he later admitted that his time in military service yielded little, if any, inspiration.
One of the reasons Syburg originally became involved in the theatre is that, in his opinion, it has the ability to communicate emotion that no other media can. “I think theatre presents the human experience in its most direct form. Because there is a relationship between the actor on the stage and the audience in the theatre, the human actioncan be most effectively communicated in
19
Professor Syburg ends his 37-year career at Notre Dame after directing onefinal play.
that situation.”
Although Syburg feels that Brecht’s plays are some of the poorest examples of audience-actor interaction, Syburg’s directing deviates from this as he seeks to stir passion and emotion in his crowd.
Professor Syburg explained why he deviates from the author’s original intensions for the performance. “Well, it’s a rather complex answer. I really think that the effect Brecht wanted to achieve in the theatre can be achieved by involving the audience with direct emotional interplay. To deliberately try to distance the audience or to try to avoid involving the audience does not serve Brecht well. The play itself has in its structure (in the way it is written) these alienating, distancing devices. In love scenes or scenes . with emotion, you still try to get that audience to be involved. What I wanted to avoid was this hesitancy about appeals directly to the audience, as I have seen some Brecht productions attempt to do. I don’t think Brecht is well served by that.”
According to Syburg, Brecht did this because he wanted his audiences to think and to reflect. “He wanted them to act. He sees theatre as having some social effect. He felt that if the audiences got too much involved they would simply turn overand enjoy the play without gaining anything intellectual. He felt that as soon as the play was over the audience wouldn’t do anything about the
social problem that was presented. And so he insisted that the audience be distanced. He felt that if the audience was forced to make a decision or come to grips with a social problem presented on stage, they might do something about it later.”
In essence, Brecht saw the stage as a type of laboratory where the audience kept a distance in order to observe and make choices.
Syburg sees “The Good Woman of Setzuan” as an accurate example of the kind
Paul Webb
Thomas Williams, Tasha Gutting and Siiri Scott rehearse a scene in Brecht’s play, “The Good Woman of Setzuan.”
of laboratory that Brecht wanted to set up. The story deals with the conflict of good and evil in the actions of man. According to the play, a man cannot do good without doing evil at the same time. Syburg also feels this to be true. “ Given the present social system you can’t do only good. Thisisn’tasituation of a natural human condition. That’s why the world must be changed. Why the social system must be changed. In order for people to be able to do good without also doing evil.” As in many of his plays, Brecht sees a need for change in society. There must be a way to do only good.
“I would agree with Brecht that society must be changed. I’m not sure that the way in which society must be' changed is his prescription. His notion of how society must be changed is what I wouldn’t necessarily agree with. One of the things I like about this play is that he doesn’t offer a solution. Although Brecht is a Marxist he doesn’t offer a specifically Marxist solution in the play.
All he is saying is that the present economic structure must be changed.”
Syburg has given many years of talent to the Notre Dame stage and his influences will be felt long after his retirement. As for Syburg, he will still be taking part in the stage. “I think I shall be largely a spectator,” he finished.	□
By John Gorkowski
20
SCHOLASTIC

Paul Webb
Wylde Sects, one of two squads from Grace Hall, warm up on the Astroturf of Turner’s prior to their tournament game.
While most of Notre Dame is studying, asleep (or partying!), this small group of fanatics is playing soccer
By J. Bradley Keck
On Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday nights at one o’clock in the morning, about 20 guys from Notre Dame are out having a great time. These young men are not at The Commons, The Club, or The Linebacker. These diehard fun-seekers are at Turner’s.
Turner’s is not a new nightclub, but they do serve beer. Turner’s is an indoor soccer facility that hosts a late, late, late night soccer league every spring for college-age men. Undergrads, grads, and members of the South Bend community put together teams and play soccer far into the night.
Last Sunday night I had the pleasure of attending one of these contests. Ataboutl2 a.m., I was to meet a team from Grace Hall in the lobby of their dorm. Expecting at least ten players when I arrived, I was surprised to see an empty lobby with the game scheduled to begin in 25 minutes. Finally, two players from the Grace team showed up. Grace, which finished 3-2-2 in the
APRIL 18, 1991
regular season, was pumped for the tournament - both of them.
They asked if I wanted to play, but after a layoff of six years, I thought better of it. At about 12:10, they decided to call some other players. Within the next five minutes, five more players were lacing up their shoes and pulling on their green shirts. Mark “Monk” Malloy arrived wearing his favorite shirt- as habit, or superstition, he dons the same, unwashed shirt before every game. He must figure that the fans won’t mind — there aren’t any.
Finally, at 12:20 the team figured they should leave for Turner’s. Squeezed into two cars, they made the short trip up Ironwood Road to the indoor arena. Thepreviousgame was running a little late so they had a few minutes to relax before their scheduled 12:30 game.	.
There were about seven cars outside and the building was very dark. But once inside there was a heated game going on. Macri’s
was playing Club 23 in another tournament game. Grace watched closely, for they had a vested interest in the outcome: if they advanced, their second-round opponent would be the winner of this contest. Club 23 won easily.
Grace then took the field. Their-opponent was El. Led by Pedro Villegas, who moonlights as the head of SUFR, El was out for revenge. They had been dismissed easily by Grace 8-2 in a previous meeting.
Other than the teams’ benches, the official, myself and three fans, the arena was empty. As with all indoor soccer facilities, Turner’s is walled in and much smaller than a regular soccer field. But even though Turner’s has no stands to speak of for fans, it has a bar walled in behind Plexiglas to the right of the south goal. Rumor has it that many of the players sit and have a drink before the game rather than spend the time before games in the more traditional locker room. Many of the Grace players claim that
21
the bar affords a better view of the action on the field.
Ironically, above the bar is an advertisement for a physical therapist. Those players who sit behind the Plexiglas the longest are also the most prone toward injury and in need of that therapy.
race got off to a quick start. After a few Xj minutes, the score was 2-0. Grace netted one goal that slid in off the curved wall and another that came off the rocket foot of Bob “Bubba” Scheibol. El finally countered with a goal of their own. The action started to heat up as both sides began to take the contest extremely seriously. The teams were very vocal, very rough but extremely talented.
Toward the end of the half, one player from El was assessed a two minute penalty. They were forced to play one man down. Within seconds of this ejection, however, they attacked Grace’s goal and scored a short-handed goal. Grace countered with their third goal and at the end of the first half the score was 3-2, Grace on top.
In the second half the action was turned up another notch. In a game where no one was watching and the greatest reward is a wall
plaque, the fervor of the players was amazing. Attimesthecompetitivenessalmostgot out of hand. Two players were injured, another ejected, and there was more emotion than many interhall contests.
At one point, Brian Packard of Grace ripped his shoe in half on a blast downfield and it went flying. Villegas picked it up and held on to it while he played as Packard continued to chase the ball on the turf—less one shoe. The official finally stopped play when he feared that Packard’s shoe could be used as a weapon. I was asked to give up one of my shoes so that Packard could continue playing.
The players say this was not a rare occurrence.
After this brief comedic sideshow subsided, Grace took control. With only one sub, they took command of the pace and
22
ended up winning 7-3. The game was fun to watch, and I had to keep rem inding my self of two things; one, it was two in the morning and two, there were only two fans at this contest. The way these guys were going at it you might have thought this was the World Cup, or at least that the players were getting paid - neither of which was the case.
These guys just love to play soccer. Many of them pay up to S30 to participate in this league, and it is not for the timid or untalentcd. About 20 percent of the players have at least some varsity experience at Notre Dame, although no current varsity players can participate. Teams arc made up of every imaginable combination. There are
Paul Webb
Turner's bar behind the Plexiglas provides a pleasant hangout prior to the blood and sweat of actual competition.
in all eight teams; besides El, Grace, Macri’s, and Club 23, there are the Wylde Sects (another Grace Hall team), Limp, Stanford and the regular season champs, The Benders.
Dan Lyons and Mark Crowe are two members of Club 23’s team who combine for six years of varsity experience. Lyons is a standout goalie who officiates the contests when he isn ’ t minding the nets. Other standouts include Mark Keefe and Greg Butler of Wylde Sects; and Malloy, Packard and Pete Sanchez of Grace. Keefe and Butler are generally considered two of the better defenders in the league. Sanchez and Malloy are ex-varsity soccer players and Packard is the league’s leading scorer.
On the ride home, the players talked about the league and why they stay up all hours to kick around the ball at Turner’s. All agree
that this is some of the most intense soccer that they have played, and they don’t mind the late hours, the lack of fans or the craziness of the games.
“It’s just fun and much more competitive than you would think it would be,” says Malloy. “We don’t have a choice about the hours, but it is great to get out and play.”
“It’s a great tension breaker,” adds Packard. “I can get it all outat the end of theday.”
It also seems that there is more to this midnight madness than soccer; there is also a sense of adventure.
“Nothing ever has gotten completely out of control, but there is usually a fight a game,” said Malloy. “Last week I did have to go to the hospital. There are a lot of hacks.”
“What about that guy’s knee?” interjects Colin Fleming. “Remember that guy who blew out his knee -yeah, people get hurt all the time.”
Fleming is an interesting case. He is officially on the Grace roster but has failed to go to any of the games. “Hey, first they hound me to play so they can get my money. Then they want me to show up? I’ve got things to do at night,” said Fleming.
Not everyone is a diehard player. But when characters like Fleming don’t show, no one is really worried. Pack
ard gives the solution, “Wejustpickup some guys from the bar, like we did in the first game of the year.”
In the end, this late night soccer league is for the players. One o’clock in the morning is the best time for these guys to make memories and relive the past. When it comes right down to it, these guys could care less if anyone comes out to see them play. They are out there for the fun and the competition. They know that, around midnight, exciting things happen at Turner’s indoor soccer arena.
The tournament championship is tonight at 12:30 a.m., preceded by the consolation game at 11:30 p.m. Anyone who has not experienced indoor soccer in a while should come out to Turner’s on Ironwood. Admission is free, parking is everywhere and the action is always fast and furious. □
SCHOLASTIC
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Joe Binkiewicz: Binkiewicz, a junior from Wintersville, OH, led the Irish baseball team to a three-game sweep of Xavier this past weekend with two home runs. In Sunday's first game, he became the first man ever (high school, college or professional) to hit a home run over the Centerfield wall at Coveleski Stadium. On the season, he has seven home runs and a .923 slugging percentage.
Kathy Phares: Phares, a sophomore from East Moline, IL, led the women's golf team to victory this weekend at the Bradley Lady Braves Invitational in Peoria, IL. She topped the Irish with a 123 scorecard and finished second overall in the individual competition. Phare's score marks eighth time in 15 outings for Notre Dame that she has led the team in scoring.
ATTENTION^
STUDENT CLUBS and ORGANIZATIONS
Scholastic is again sending out a summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen.
Interested in advertising in this issue? Contact Dave Chmiel at 239-7569 or stop by Scholastic’s office, 303 LaFortune. Office hours are 2-5, Monday-Friday.
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
APRIL 18, 1991
23

Human Rights
In South Africa
South African student reflects on the roots of Apartheid
When speaking of future human rights in South Africa, a thorough understanding of the fibers that form the base of that society is essential, as any political, social or economic strategy that ignores the current historical trends and socio-economic realities of society runs the risk of being irrelevant. With this in mind, a brief reflection on the roots of Apartheid is important.
In the early 1900’s, at the formation of the Union of South Africa, the building blocks of Apartheid were laid in South African soil by a legislative scheme promoting the policy of segregation and creating a defensive bastion against black advancement while enshrining the “superior position” of whites. In 1948, segregation became official government policy under the glamorized name of “Separate Development.”
The Apartheid philosophy meant, firstly, that blacks had to be segregated in constitutional, political, social and other spheres. It also intended to divide blacks ethnically into different nations with the idea to establish each nation into its own homeland. New states were carved out of the body of South Africa and granted independence, and all black persons affiliated with these entities lost their South African citizenship.
The South African government embarked on a massive scheme of “social engineering” to restructure society according to the Apartheid dream. The government put into operation a system which aimed at bringing about the greatest possible division amongst the peoples of South Africa, including mass forced removals of societies from their traditional lands, disrupted family lives and
24
SCHOLASTIC
Liesl Fichardt received her L.L.B. at the University ofStellenbach, South Africa and is currently a candidate for an LL.M, at the University of Notre Dame.
the treating of human beings as pieces on a chessboard that could be moved in accordance with the masterplan. This assumption that ends justify means and that people were not individual, unique creations, but merely means to an end, was fundamental to Apartheid.
Basic civil and political rights, that men and women are created equal in law, that government rests upon the consent of the governed, that political participation and representation are available to all, were overturned by the architects of Apartheid and only granted to the white minority. Social and economic rights like housing, employment, medical care and welfare have been extended to the minority but denied to the majority. And the right to development and peace have been withheld from all.
At the break of a new decade, South Africa is faced with a mood for negotiation and reconciliation. The state of emergency that colored the ’80’s with mass detentions without trial, disappearing political assassinations and unlimited police powers, has been lifted. Apartheid legislation such as the Separate Amenities Act and the Group Access Act have been abolished. Political leaders have been released and exiles are returning home.
In the 1990’s, institutional changes alone cannotreshape the South African society. In addition it is necessary to develop a human rights culture or ethos. The Apartheid “whites only” signs have disappeared from the restaurants, parks and swimming pools, but the hearts and minds of the people can only change within a culture in which human dignity, human autonomy and human equality are recognized.
For the development of this culture, education will play a vital role. Furthermore, traditions within the South African society can foster the development of a human rights culture: The term “ubuntu” means a neighboring culture in African Society much like the Judeo-Christian tradition it would be translated as “loving thy neighbor as one loves oneself.” Also, the South African Common Law is rich in fundamental human rights sources -Roman and Roman-Dutch law systems were sensitive to and assiduous in their protection of many aspects of the human personaltity.
The development of this culture also goes hand in hand with the adoption of a Bill of Rights. But this cannot be a document enshrining the privileges of the white minority. It cannot be a document in which a group seeks to deny another group its right to participation, since both groups must function together in one community. Instead, the Bill of Rights should come from the people of South Africa, be tied together in mutual respect as the South African nation.
As South Africans, we form part of a diverse and divided society, a society that is in. need of constitutional political and economic restructuring, but also a society that should recognize human dignity. Only within this human rights culture can people live together in peaceful coexistence. □
by Liesl F. Fichardt
The Best
SAI»T MART'S COLLtCt
SO
■WVlV’Ji



000
College Spring
Festival
..Brins on...
THE FIREWORKS SHOW a 0 ’**’ THE CHARITY CARNIVAL
THE QUEST FOR THE CROWN THE BLIZZARD OF BUCKS THE AIR VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY THE MUD PITS / THE JELLO PITS THE GUESS WHO
SIUDI-NT UNION BOARD
LIVE FROM
NOTRE CAME IT’S
A BACKSTAGE HISTORY OF SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE DOUG HILL AND JEFF WEINGRAD PRESENT A LECTURE AND SPECIAL FILM CLIPS OF THE STARS WHO MADE IT HAPPEN!!!
S ri DHST UNION HOARD
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1991 8PM ATTHE CCE AUDATORIUM TIX: $3 at the info desk