
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 72, No. 1
September 23, 1938
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HOW WILL NOTRE DAME
FINISH?
A FOOTBALL EXPERT
IN THE SAME ISSUE
TELLS YOU IN THIS WEEK'S POST
WHO’LL WIN the big games this Fall?
What men from here will be in the headlines? Afootball expert makes some prophecies, and gives you a team-by-team appraisal of your competition. Tells how the new rules affect the game, whether 1938 football will be conservative or razzle-dazzle, and what the colleges think about the new legal athletic scholarship introduced in the Southeastern Conference. Here’s some lively dopeabout teams, trendsand players; read it in the Post this week.
DOES THE PUBLIC THINK COLLEGE A WASTE OF TIME? Last winter the Post invited Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, President of the University of Chicago, to write a series of articlesoneducation. He received 9M letters from readers. Now, in Hutchins Answers Hutchins, he gives you a peek at his mail, and shows you what people told him about education.
MR. GLENCANNON—THE YOGI OF WEST NINTH STREET. Fo> years, in barrooms throughout the world, Mr. Glencannon had studied the breath-control problem. Read what happens when he finds a book called “The Secrets of Hindu Yoga Breath Control,” and, aided by a quart or two, tries it out. A swell new story by Guy Gilpatric, wherein Mr. Glencannon steals a letter box.
A WOMAN SPY IN BERUN CAN’T TRUST ANYBODY! Not even her employers. Perhaps noteven herself. The Gestapo ordered Anna Kleerman to trap a “harmless, rather stupid” young Englishman. The records in File No. 36475 tell you what happened. A dramatic story by William C. White. ALSO: Soda Poppers Can Take It, by Jerome Barry..and Love is a Happenstance, by Dorothy Thomas..My Day in Court, in which Arthur Train, creator of “Mr. Tutt,” tells you of Abe Hummel and other celebrated shysters who once paraded before the criminal bar..How they catch your Friday’s Fish, as told and pictured in color by Bernard Breedlove ..Editorials, poetry, fun and cartoons.
Pigskin Preview of 1938 by FRANCIS WALLACE
|P f If you haven’t received your copy of “1938 Football Schedules,” showing new rule changes, this year’s games, ■ BW Ki Kb ■ >t»d 1937 scores of 359 leading colleges, ask at the business office of the paper publishing this advertisement.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter’at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
September 23, 1938
No. I
RELIGIOUS CEREMONIES OPEN SCHOOL YEAR
STUDENTS TAKE PART IN ANNUAL MISSION
•
The first of the annual Notre Dame student missions which inaugurate each schoolyear closes tomorrow morning with Mass and instruction at 6:30 in Sacred Heart Church.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, preached the first mission which opened last Sunday night. All students living in Cavanaugh, Zahm, Freshman, Carroll, Brownson, St. Edward’s, Badin and Off-Campus are making this retreat.
The second mission will begin Sunday night, Sept. 25, and continue until Oct. 1. All students who did not make the first mission are to attend the second which will also be conducted by Father O’Hara.
Topics for the sermons of both (Continued on Page 21)
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Second Mission Next Week.
First Sermon Given By Father Cavanaugh
By F. G. Barreda
Solemn and devotional ceremonies marked the opening of the 97th scholastic year at Notre Dame with the celebration of the annual votive Mass of the Holy Ghost and the commemoration of the fifteenth Sunday after Pentecost in the Sacred Heart Church last Sunday morning at 8:30 o’clock. As the 40-unit Moreau Seminary Choir under the direction of Reverend James Young, C.S.C., sang the liturgical Gregorian chant, the invocation of the Spirit of Truth was made for the new scholastic year.
Celebrant of the Mass was Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, with Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., assisting as deacon, and Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., assisting as sub-deacon. Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., served as master of ceremonies.
Prior to the Mass, members of the University faculty, dressed in caps and gowns, marched in an impressive procession from the Administration Building to the Sacred Heart Church.
More than 1,000 students listened attentively to the counseling words of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant provincialate of the Holy Cross Congregation, in his splendid opening sermon. Father Cavanaugh urged the students to heed the advice of the Eucharistic Calendar in living sacramentally, living unselfishly, for others.
“The Christian spirit of love and charity, if it is to be exemplified in Catholic men, must spring from the roots of unselfishness, from the bonds of brotherly love,” Father Cavanaugh told his listeners. “In Knute Rockne
(Continued on Page 21)
Applicants for the SCHOLASTIC staff and those desiring to submit writings for publications are invited to visit the SCHOLASTIC Editorial rooms evenings, Sundays through Fridays, between 7 and 8, or room 328 Main Building mornings between 9 and 11, or evenings between 8 and 9.
FATHER STEINER IS NEW PROVINCIAL
Many new appointments with respect to the priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross here at the Univei-sity of Notre Dame took place this summer, when the General Chapter of the Holy Cross Congregation met here in July.
Most prominent of all appointments
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C. A bigger job for him.
was the election of Rev. Thomas A-. Steiner, C.S.C., newly elected provincial of the United States for the Congregation of Holy Cross, succeeding Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., who became assistant general of the order.
Since his ordination into the priesthood by Bishop Chartrand of Indianapolis on May 14th, 1918, Father Steiner has been a member of the faculty of the school of engineering at Notre Dame and for a number of years has been dean of the school of engineering. Father Steiner received his college education at the University of Notre Dame graduating with his bachelor’s degree in civil engineering in 1899. From 1911 till 1914 he was on the faculty of the school of engineering (Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MANY NEW TEACHERS JOIN FACULTY
•
Notre Danie’s ever increasing international settlement of teachers is augmented this year by men from three countries: Eire, France, and Germany. Eire is represented by the Hon. Desmond Fitzgeralld, political philosopher and member of the Irish parliament, who will deliver a special course for advanced students in the department of politics.
From France comes Doctor Yves Simon, renowned philosopher and authority on ethics. Dr. Simon has been editor of the French Revue de Philosophe and a professor at the Catholic Institute of Paris and the University of Lille.
The distinguished Politics department adds another imposing name to its list, that of Dr. Ferdinand Aloys Karl Hermens, graduate of the University of Bonn, Germany. Dr. Hermens has also studied at the University of Berlin, the University of Rome, and at the School of Economics in London. He was sent to Europe in 1937 by the Guggenheim Foundation to make a study of proportional representation in national legislative bodies.
Domestic additions to the faculty include Dr. Ernest J. Wilhelm who joins the College of Engineeering, as assistant professor of chemical engineering; Dr. William H. Hamill, assistant professor of physical chemistry, and Dr. Paul M. Pepper, instructor in mathematics.
The new priest-professors of the Congregation of Holy Cross who will teach this year at Notre Dame include the Rev. James H, Gallagan, C.S.C., politics; Rev. Leo Ryan, C.S.C., religion; Rev. Charles A, Lee, C.S.C., English; Rev. Cornelius R. Laskowski, C.S.C., English; Rev. James A. Young, C.S.C., English, and the Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C., economics.
The College of Commerce has added two new instructors in finance: Mr. Raymond P. Kent and Mr. Herbert F. Klingman. Mr. Kent received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pittsburgh, and Mr. Klingman received his bachelor’s degree from the University of Wisconsin and the degree of Master of Business Administration from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.
The faculty of the College of Law will have a new member in James J. Kearney, J. D., who comes to Notre Dame from Loyola University, Chicago, where he has been an instructor in the school of law. A graduate of Notre Dame College of Law, Dr. Kearney received his LL.D. degree from Catholic University of Washington in 1935.
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
/nauguratio?i
There seems to be several different opinions as to what constitutes the actual beginning of the schoolyear. The sentimentalist says it is the first touching of his foot to Notre Dame sod, the freshman says it is the first sight of the stadium, the good Fathers tell us it is the inaugural sermon, the professors feel it is the first class, and a few of our acquaintances regard their first midnight as the official blowing-off of the lid. But we disagree with all these theories. For us the year definitely begins with the showing of “The Spirit of Notre Dame” to the freshmen. Consequently when we went to see the picture we had no qualms of conscience about intruding on a freshman show but felt that we were only carrying out our duty in covering the important events of the week. Although this was the fourth straight year we had seen the picture (yes, we saw it illegitimately during our Sophomore and Junior years and had qualms instead of alibis) we were still shocked at seeing a fellow come home at two in the morning and turn his lights on, at seeing a freshman look from a window of Freshman Hall and see the lake through Lyons arch, and at viewing open - eyed that unforgettable dining-hall scene in which the whole student body says “Amen” as if it means it, in which the soup is served in individual bowls, and in which football players are flashed on the screen attired not only in neck ties but in complete suits—coat matching trousers and everything.
Regimentation
On our first visit to the cafeteria we read with awe the boldly-printed sign, “Ladies are requested to refrain from smoking in cafeteria.” Then we read it again to make sure it said what we thought it said the first time we read it. It did. If it had read “No smoking in cafeteria” we would have been even less startled. But here was a subtle distinction drawn between male and female devotees of nicotine, a suggestion that public smoking by a woman is perhaps ungraceful. Why if the American Student Union heard of the “outrage,” it would see red (its favorite color) and would kick up a fuss about violation of women’s rights.
We looked around for further evidence of Fascism. The “Do Not Destroy” command on the cover of
the Student Manual sounded ominously suggestive. Then we noted the new library cards and new laundry cards that prevent us from putting anything over on the University even if (perish the thought) we wanted to. The crowning blow, however, was the discovery that all our airplanes (See Student Manual under the word “Airplanes”) are to be taken away from us. Life didn’t seem worth living without our airplanes. We waited submissively for the order that all students must don green-shirted uniforms. But we were given renewed confidence in the security of our position—we discovered that a student in Alumni Hall actually has been granted permission to have a private telephone installed in his room. Democracy still reigns supreme.
Consternation
While we were unsuccessfully searching the farthest reaches of the campus for something unusual, a Walsh senior living two doors away from us (who didn’t even know we were looking) reported that while he was taking a drink in the dining hall fountain the other day a slightly-used wad of chewing gum popped into his mouth. The fellow claims that he absent-mindedly chewed on it for five or ten minutes before he realized with a shock that it had sneaked into his mouth as a stowaway. We’re inclined to regard the latter portion of his story as a harmless bit of artificial coloring, but the story itself startles us. How could a wad of chewing gum sprout from a mere drinking fountain? The one philosophical maxim pounded and expounded until we have learned it is that every effect must have an adequate course. And that spontaneous generation fiddle faddle never was mean to apply to chewing gum anyhow. So we looked for the cause. We were finally despairing when some one made the simple suggestion that a previous fountain user probably had lost control of his gum while concentrating on filling his mouth with water, and had accidentally (it couldn’t have been deliberate, could it?) dropped the gum into the water spout. We have been drinking water all day in the hope of causing a recurrence of the incident or discovering something even more startling, but we haven’t even swallowed an empty wrapper. Jus the same we wonder now if there isn’t something in that “raining cats and dogs” thing after all.
SEPTEMBER 23. 1938
5
N. D. LINNETS SWING BACK INTO LINE
Five years ago the “Linnets of Notre Dame,” an organization composed entirely of students, provided entertainment for the student body and themselves. Last Sunday evening in the Cushing Hall of Engineering the Linnets were reorganized into a vocal and musical group under the auspices of the Freshmen class.
Mr. Orville Foster, new professor of music and radio at the University, is in charge of the group, and weekly rehearsals have been set for every Tuesday evening from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the campus radio studio. Professor Foster comes from Des Moines where he was music director for the Iowa Network. He also served as instructor for the Notre Dame Choral club during the 1938 summer session.
The first monthly series of programs presented by the Linnets is scheduled to be held the second week in Octobr in Washington Hall, where an entirely new and varied type of entertainment will be given. Applications are now being received for membership in the organization, and arrangements are under way to form a swing bang, glee club and other musical and vocal groups featuring only freshmen talent.
The University Seal
Although it is vividly familiar by sight to all Notre Dame students and is used to adorn many banners and articles of Notre Dame, the real meaning of the Notre Dame seal (See Cover) remains a mystery to even the embarrassed senior when asked by the inquisitive freshman what the various items in the shield represents.
Its color—blue and gold—are the colors of the Blessed Virgin to whom Notre Dame is dedicated. The star in the upper left-hand corner, reminiscent of the Star of the Sea, is Mary’s symbol in the shield. The wide, wavy lines of silver at the lower part of the coat-of-arms incorporate part of the official title of the institution, “Universitatis Dominae Nostrae a Lacu,” to represent water and thus express the latter half of the official name, “a Lacu,” or “by the lake.”
The white Cross, running through the middle of the shield, stands for the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the open book suspended on the Cross on the middle of the shield bears the inscription, “Vita, Dulcedo, Spes,” to mean an institution of learning and with the Latin words taken from an ancient prayer to the Virgin Mary meaning, “our life, our sweetness, our hope.”
ROCKNE'S DREAM COMES TRUE IN MEMORIAL; INTRA-MURAL CENTER READY BY SPRING
By Joseph Perkins
Knute Rockne had great dreams for his boys at Notre Dame. The late beloved scholar, educator, and coach planned and dreamed of ways and means to improve the minds and bodies of young men—young Notre Dame men. His
one great wish was to provide a
Knute K. Rockne In his honor—a memorial.
Veteran Missionary Buried on Campus
The Rev. Francis Boeres, C.S.C., 76, second oldest priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross and a foreign missionary for 40 years, died last week. Funeral services were held on the campus in Sacred Heart church last Friday morning.
Prior to his appointment as chaplain of Cathedral high school in Indianapolis, Father Boeres spent 40 years in foreign mission work. He was stationed at Dacca, India, for 22 years, and then spent 18 years ministering to religious wants in the Philippine Islands.
Father Boeres was born in Mar-nach, Luxembourg, on Feb. 17, 1862, professed as member of Holy Cross on July 22, 1883, and ordained May 3, 1886.
In 1936, the occasion of his Golden Jubilee, Father Boeres was feted by the Congregation of Holy Cross and by His Excellency the Most Rev. Joseph Ritter, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis.
Burial was made in the Community Cemetery on the Notre Dame campus.
where young men could improve themselves in all forms of recreation. Where they could build strong physical bodies capable of and necessary to carrying on active and healthful living, both in body and soul.
Knute Rockne’s dreams are becoming a reality. “Rock’s” one great dream is materializing in the form of a memorial — the Rockne Memorial, built and dedicated to the memory of America’s ideal sholar, educator and coach.
The Memorial was begun last spring and is gradually shaping itself into a massive beautiful structure covering nearly an acre of ground. It is located at the west end of the main quadrangle and is being constructed in semi-Gothic architectural style to correspond with the other buildings of the quadrangle. The facial brick are of the same color and texture as those of the surrounding buildings. The trimming is Indiana limestone.
The Loggia, or porch-like corridor forms the front of the building facing east. It is an embodiment of an Italian architectural form rarely found in the United States.
The main floor of the Memorial will embody the Memorial Foyer, Trophy room, Monogram room, faculty and student lounges and several visiting rooms. In the center are observation rooms from which one can see down to the swimming pool and handball courts on the ground floor. ■
The swimming pool is of regulation size, located in the center of the ground floor. Corridors separate the pool from twelve handball courts located around it.
Also on the ground or lower floor are the wrestling and boxing rooms, locker rooms and showers. The facilities for golf are to be in the southwest corner of the ground floor. There will be lockers, showers, driving range and an office.
An attractive feature of the third floor is a large sun porch which will face the south overlooking the golf course.	‘
The Rockne Memorial building is to be used exclusively for intra-mural activities. It is truly a materialization of Rockne’s great dream.
Concerning the probable completion of the Memorial, Father John J. Reddington, C.S.C., says, “We sincerely hope that it will be completed sufficiently to be put into use in early Spring.”
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I Our Daily Bread | \_____________________________/
Liturgy
In this column each week we shall present the calendar of feasts from Sunday to Saturday. The happily increasing use of the missal by the students and the desire to further encourage it prompts the Scholastic to introduce this service. The student may clip the calendar and place it in his missal. We shall also include some comment on the Liturgy. The mass is the central fact in the Liturgy, hence its importance in Catholic life. There is no Catholic life without the mass. It is the fundamental source of Catholic Action which The Holy Father has called the apple of his eye. He looks especially to youth as the hope of an overwrought world. Now that the altar has been desecrated in so many places we have a particular duty to rally round it, to pray for those who are deprived of its divine presence.
Calendar
' Week of Sept. 25 to Oct. 1
First Class, Double, Semi-double, indicates the quality of the feast. V,R, means that a votive or a requiem mass may be celebrated, easily recognizable by the color of the vestments. Ordinarily the requiem mass, except at a funeral, will be the one designated in the missal as, the “Daily Mass for the Departed.”
Sunday 25th—Sixteenth Sunday after Pentecost. Semi-double. 2nd Collect Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis) 3rd For the Pope or Against the Persecutors of the Church. (In section of the Missal “Additional Collects.”)	■
Monday 26th—The North American Martyrs, Sts. Isaac Jogues, John de Brebeuf and Companions. Double. 2d Collects of Sts. Cyprian and Justina, Martyrs.
Tuesday 27th— Sts. Cosmas and Damien, Martyrs. Semi-double. V.R.
Wednesday 28th — St. Wenceslaus Martyr. Semi-double. V.R.
Thursday 29th—Dedication of St. Michael the Archangel. Double of the First Class. Credo. St. Michael is the standard-bearer against the forces of evil in the world.
Friday 30th—St. Jerome. Priest, Confessor, Doctor. Double. Credo. St. Jerome wrote the Latin translation of the scriptures known as the “Vulgate.” It has been adopted by the Church as the official one.
September 1st—Simple. V.R. The votive mass, if said, will be that of the Blessed Virgin for Saturday between Pentecost and Advent. The month is dedicated to the Holy Rosary.
Mitchell Names Fosketti Fay Associate Editors;
Column Conductors for Year Announced
Headlines, by-lines, and deadlines resumed their annual preeminence today with the opening of the seventy-second publication year of The Scholastic, Notre Dame’s student weekly campus magazine. At last
Graham Starr Follows that man.
Friday’s initial meeting Editor-in-Chief Mark Mitchell of Chicago, and Managing Editor Vincent DeCourcey of Kansas City, Kansas, helm men who will assume pilot duty through the twenty-six issues of the magazine in 1938-39, issued instructions and assignments to the departmental editors appointed last semester.
Feature artist Bill Fay of Mt. Lebanon, Pa., steps into the bracket of News Editor with F. G. Barreda of Laredo, Texas, as his assistant. Don Foskett, who hails from East Weymouth, Mass., fills the Sports Editor’s shoes vacated last year by Editor Mitchell. Racine, Wisconsin’s, Bob Voelker takes up the capacity of assistant Sports Editor. The literary section will be in charge of Bill Mahoney, law student from Phoenix, Ariz.
In the lighter vein, “The Week,” the subtle commentating column which presents a weekly cross-section of campus activities, will unroll be-
Father Cousineau Makes Official Visit to Rome;
Superior General Will Meet Holy Father
Very Reverend Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., who was elected Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross at the General Chapter held at Notre Dame last July, sailed Wednesday for Rome and his first official visit to the Holy Father. He was accompanied by the Reverend George Sauvage, C.S.C., Procurator General of the Congregation, who resides at Rome. The Reverend Edward Hes
fore the witty pen of Bill Donnelly of Queens Village, N. Y. “Man About the Campus,” the “blow” column, is to be written by Graham Starr, a native of Concordia, Kansas. Fred Sisk of Trinidad, Colo., gets his clip sheets together for the plagiaristic task ahead of him in composing “College Parade,” a banner column carrying choice transcripts from college papers throughout the country.
Andy Wilson of Kew Gardens, N. Y., takes control of “Splinters From the Press Box,” one of the most popular sports columns in collegiate paper circles. “Introducing,” a four-star column presenting the
Fred Sisk Snaps shiny scissors.
outstanding athletic members of the Irish sport kingdom will be written by Eddie Huff of Pittsburgh.
“Music Notes,” an excellent column filled with classical comments on musical activities at Notre Dame, is under the direction of William Mooney of Waverly, Iowa.
Students desiring to try out for The Scholastic are asked to visit the editorial rooms in the Ave Maria Building Sundays through Fridays between 7 and 8 p.m.
ton, C.S.C., secretary to the former General, Father Donahue, the Reverend Regis Riter, C.S.C., of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, the Reverend Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., formerly Master of Novices at North Dartmouth, Mass., who will pursue advanced theological studies in Rome, and Mr. John Donnelly, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary, who will study in France, were also of the party.
SEPTEMBER 23, 1938
7
MANAGERS PREPARED
DISNEY'S PEN CHILD, MICKEY MOUSE. BECOMES
FOR BUSY SEASON
N. D. RODENT NO. 1 IN LIBRARY EXHIBIT
At this time of the year every student eagerly awaits the approach of the numerous athletic contests sponsored by the University. However, one group which fears this coming is the Managers. They are not fearful because of the labor which is necessitated, but because of the strain which will be placed on their charges. Exclusive of the coaches, the managers are very deeply concerned with the progress of the players. At every scene of practice one can find a manager hoping that his “boy” will out-plunge or run faster than the rest.
This organization not only performs much of the work concerning the stadium personnel and the equipment, but also serves as one of the chief encourageemnts to the players. It is their honored boast that they are the only campus organization which actively participates in every sport.
The first meeting of this club was held last Friday evening with the senior managers in charge. This select group includes Joseph F. Dray, head manager of football; Lucian Lacroix, assistant manager of the stadium; Daniel Sheedy, basketball; J. R. Gorman, track; Albert F. Van Huffel, baseball; Robert Kavatstk, golf and tennis; Robert C. Volz, fencing; and Andrew F. Wilson, stadium personnel. Joseph Dray addressed the freshmen aspirants and explained the methods of the organization. Under the present system, at the end of the year, the surviving freshmen receive a numeral sweater as is given in other sports. The number of managers is cut during the sophomore and junior years. Juniors are elected to the sports by the graduating senior managers, who have received their monograms. In addition certain managers accompany the varsity teams on all trips. With these rewards it is hoped that the number of freshman applicants will increase in the near future.
Manager Dray announced that all freshmen applications will be considered for the next few weeks.
Students Get Tickets
Gilberts, one of South Bend’s leading clothiers, is celebrating the opening of the schoolyear in conjunction with the opening of their new store at 813-15 South Michigan Street. To add zest to the celebration Gilbert’s will give away free passes to a local theater to the first 200 Notre Dame students visiting their new establishment.
By Dick Metzger
“Mickey Mouse,” the world’s most famous rodent, is nibbling around the Library corridors this week — a contented visitor of the University Art department which is presenting the first in a series of exhibitions of contemporary art work. Original Walt Disney drawings and a series of animated cartoons make up the exhibit.
John Walsh Calls For
Bookmen Members
John Walsh, president of the Bookmen, campus literary club, announced that two members will be admitted by the club at the next meeting, October 5. Those interested in joining the club, an association for the purposes of studying contemporary liter-
John Walsh
Wants some readers.
ature, are to see Frank Cunningham, chairman of the membership committee in room 206 Alumni Hall any evening from Sept. 24 to Oct. 2 between 5 and 6 p.m. or 6:30 and 7:30 p.m.
At the meeting of the club held last Wednesday in the Seminar room of the Law Building, plans for the ensuing semester were discussed and future meetings were arranged. New books were discussed and the final selection will take place at the next meeting. Also it was announced that members of the club will write reviews for The Scholastic of current books of interest.
The summer dwarfs the gay and witty,	•
In favor of the young and pretty.
Gals who aren’t bright, but pretty, Seldom wish that they were witty.
Gals zvho lead in all their classes, Are, many times, the unattractive lasses.	-
These drawings show the entire process involved in making a Disney cartoon — from the first preliminary sketches to the finished celluloid drawing. The usual Disney “short” requires from ten to fifteen thousand drawings. As indicated in the exhibit there is a gradual development of action until the desired motion is obtained. From these sketches a number of clean-cut drawings are made. These in turn serve as models for the final celluloid renderings.
The animators play the paramount role in a Disney production. In making drawings for a particular scene he must consider the nature of the scene, the effect desired, and the type and tempo of the music that is to accompany the action. He himself draws the most difficult action “shots” while his assistants follow in his penmarks.
The Disney exhibition is the first in a weekly series offered by the Art department. With the cooperation and assistance of the Emil Jacques Chapter of the American Artists’ Professional League the work of such men as Carl Hoermann and Tunis Ponsen will be brought to the University. Perhaps the most popular works to be shown will be those of Norman Rockwell and Donald Teague.
Norman Rockwell is probably best known for his Saturday Evening Post covers which are warm and humorous in their portrayal of humble, comical characters in typical American settings. Donald Teague is a noted illustrator whose work livens many current magazines—particularly The American.
Beloit Art Exhibit
By invitation of the Fine Arts department of Beloit college at Beloit, Wisconsin the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame had an exhibit of student work in design of ecclesiastical subjects for the exhibition held at Beloit during the first week in June. The exhibition was in conjunction with the general council of Christian and Congregational churches held at that time at which nearly 1,000 ministers of these denominations were present.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SUMMER GRADUATES HEAR MANION
Mr. Clarence E. Manion, professor of constitutional law and director of the National Emergency Council for the state of Indiana, speaking at the commencement exercises of the twenty-first annual summer session, attacked American teachers for failing to instruct students in the principles of American government. He further charged that Americans are usually duped by foreign propagandists who currently dominate the pages of our political science literature. He stated that the purpose of our government is to secure and protect certain Godgiven rights which are enunciated in the Declaration of Independence.
Mr. Manion decried the comparison of American democracy with foreign democracies and said that the Declaration of Independence was a much more important document than the constitution. Continuing, he said that while our government may be like that of France and England in form it is very different in that it is the only one which guarantees and protects the inherent rights of individuals.
Before the Manion address 61 advance and bachelor degrees were conferred by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. Five doctorates, 17 masters, and 39 bachelor degrees were awarded. The enrollment at the summer session this year was about 950 students of which 450 were nuns.
La Raza Plans Far Columbus Banquet
Boasting one of the largest membership totals in its history, the La Raza Club, Notre Dame’s organization of Latin-American and Spanish students, met Tuesday evening in Badin Rec to discuss early plans for the club’s annual Columbus Banquet in the Oliver hotel.
President Juan Cintron, of Porto Rico, opened the session with the welcoming of the new members. He stressed the fact that more activities will be included this year on the club’s calendar. Chief among these will be the soccer team under the direction of Captain Vince Gurucharri.
Some of the new members and their corresponding countries are the following: Alfonso Pasquel and Mario Pasuel of Mexico; Ramiro Perez, Sergio Perez, Lucas Cambo, and Juan Gabriel Batista, of Cuba; Joe Rodriguez, Frank Perez, and Jose Hernandez, bf Porto Rico; Angel Gonzalez of - Spain; and Armando Lopez of El Paso, Texas.
Man About the Campus
Modest, easy-going, Daniel O. Donovan, from New Hampton, la., is the first man about the campus this year. “Timber” to his friends — it seems that his dad owns a lumber company —he proved to be good political timber when he became tops in campus politics after his election to the presidency of the Student Activities Council at the end of last year.
Nevertheless two or three years from now (if his dreams come true)
when he becomes an associate lawyer with his brother Tim out in the tall corn country, he will no doubt have forgotten all about his office here on the Notre Dame campus. He does remember that he held an office in dear old Hampton Public High school long ago. “I might have been vice president of the senior class,” he dares to speculate. Such is the glory of fame and fortune!
“Timber” was bom of an Irish mother which, along with the “Donovan,” makes him 100 per cent Irish. He joined the ranks of voters in this country on June 27, 1938.
Dan has a pleasing personality, and, according to reports, made a speech accompanied by rafter-trembling applause at the Iowa club summer dance. He has been an active Iowa club member since he arrived here.
Most of his former school life remains a deep dark mystery, even to his roommate of last year, Frank Toyne. He attended St. Joe’s grade school, played both football and basketball in high school, and acted as life guard during one summer vacation. This past summer he worked
KNIGHTS REORGANIZE FOR COMING YEAR
•
The extra-curricular session has now unofficially opened — for the Knights of Columbus have commenced their annual program. With many years of active participation in the movement of Columbianism behind, the Notre Dame Council will be forced to strive earnestly in maintaining an enviable record for campus organizations.
The most recent step in this direction was the publishing of the summer issue of the Santa Maria. Seriously handicapped by the absence of an editorial staff, Editor Thomas Hogan should be congratulated for his efforts. This quarterly is the official publication of the Council. Possessing a circulation which embraces all the states of the Union and several possessions, it is one of the best advertising mediums of Columbianism in the Middle West.
The newly-elected officers of the council were installed in an impressive ceremony last Tuesday evening. The new officers are John J. Murphy, Grand Knight; J. James Bernard, Deputy Grand Knight; James J. Raaf, Chancellor; C. Edward Jacobs, Recorder; Frederick W. Honerkamp, Treasurer; Thomas L. Hammond, Advocate; Raymond Schnorr, Inside Guard; John W. Patterson, Outside Guard; and Adolph Kamm, Warden.
Grand Knight Murphy announced the appointment of J. William Costello of Dover, N. J. to the office of Worthy Lecturer, and Thomas Hogan to the editorship of the Santa Maria.
In these important positions it is vital to the success of the council to have men of high standing and great ability. The Council feels that these are the men to perform the tasks in a fashion befitting the name of Columbianism. “Other appointments will be made in the near future,” stated the Grand Knight, “any member desirous of a committeeship should make this intention known to the Grand Knight.”
Any student interested in the Knights of Columbus is requested to see Financial Secretary George Morris in the Council chambers.
for an undertaker for the first time. Asked how he liked the employment,' he said, “At first it was stiff work.” Now he is planning a “bigger and better” S. A. C. year, after finishing the task of answering 1001 questions from freshmen at the S.A.C. information booth.
Mr. Donovan is unattached, but is known to pal around with a sister of Dick Benedict, who is attending St. Mary’s. Dan’s campus address is (solicitors please note) 302 Sorin.
SEPTEMBER 23, 1938
9
MADDEN AND FENLON
VISIT HOLY FATHER
LAYDEN MEETS FROSH AT FIRST CONVOCATION CAPTAINS PARADE AT WASHINGTON HALL
A summer vacation trip of over two months duration, took English Professors Paul Fenlon and Thomas Madden on an extended tour of the cultural, historical, and pleasure regions of Central and Western Europe and allowed them to fulfill one of the fondest hopes of every Catholic—an audience with our Holy Father, the Pope.
In the middle of June, the two professors sailed from New York on the French luxury liner Normandie for Paris, where they spent a week visiting the various points of interest in that both very ancient and very modern city.
Boarding an express at Paris, the travelers were sped South and Westward across the border into the mountainous country of Switzerland to witness the silvery beauty of her lakes and glaciers.
Italy was next, with its beautiful northern lake country, its Naples, the art galleries of Florence, the gondolas of Venice, and its City of Seven Hills —Rome. It was while they were at Rome that the two professors secured their soul inspiring audience with His Holiness, Pope Pius. This was accomplished through the efforts of Father Ransing, C.S.C., head of the Holy Cross house of studies at Rome.
The Slavic regions succeeded Italy on the professors’ itinerary. Jugoslavia, Budapest, and finally Vienna with its quaint costumed peasants, sidewalk cafes, and Strauss waltzes, were visited.
Munich, Heidelberg, and other cities of southern Germany came next. The electrification of the German railroads and the efficiency with which they were operated made this one of the most easily traveled parts of the whole trip.
A slow journey up the Rhine to Cologne ensued and then The Hague, Brussles, Louvain, and Calais followed in quick succession.
From Calais the professors crossed the English Channel to Dover. Ten days were spent in England visiting London, Cambridge, Oxford and Stratford - on - the - Avon. At Shakespeare’s birthplace, the professors witnessed one of the Bard’s plays at the municipal theater.
A choppy crossing of the Irish Sea to Dublin brought the travelers to the last country of their tour. The singular charm of Killarney was absorbed and then the wayfarers proceeded to Cobh, where they took the liner Paris for New York.
“Welcome to Notre Dame, boys, and if I can ever be of assistance to you, please call upon me. The complete facilities of the University of Notre Dame, including the varsity equipment, are available for your use. Make use of it,” thus suggested Elmer Layden, head football coach and director of athletics at the enthusiastic Freshmen convocation at Washington Hall Monday evening.
Enrollment Figures Are Limited to 3100
•
Eight hundred and fifty freshmen entered the University with the resumption of classes for the ninetyseventh scholastic year Sept. 15.
This year’s entering class, which will be the graduating class during the University’s centennial commencement in 1942, is slightly smaller than
Registrar Riordan
Juggles the figures.
the 1937 group. The University’s total registration, however, remained unaffected, the student body being re-' stricted to 3,100, the necessary limit fixed by University authorities in order that all students may live in campust residence halls. A few day students who live with parents or relatives in the South Bend are are the only exceptions.
The class of 1942 carries the same international flavor as that borne by its predecessors, the new students coming from 44 states, the District of Columbia, Canada, Panama, Mexico, China, Puerto Rico, Cuba, and the Philippine Islands.
POSTAGE RATES
The rate of postage on the Scholastic alone is two cents. When the brown sheet or Collegiate Digest is added it is five cents. Srip costs three cents alone. With the Collegiate Digest the mailing fee is six cents. The Religious Bulletin is first class mail and should not be included with the Scholastic or Scrip unless the total postage is prepaid at the rate of three cents per ounce.
“We have thrown open the gates to our football practices so that you and other students may watch your team. If you cannot get out and practice with the team, help us by giving us your support at the practices and in the grandstand during games,” Layden added as he invited new students to attend practices.
The Notre Dame head coach discussed the coming schedule and displayed confidence that his varsity boys would come through by producing the usual Notre Dame spirit. He was especially confident that his team, with three weeks practice behind it to less than two weeks for the frosh, would “at least gain a-tie in the Varsity-Frosh game Saturday afternoon.”
On Oct. 1, the Notre Dave varsity meets Kansas in the inaugural tilt of the season. Coach Layden outlined the future schedule and announced that the Army game had been selected for the student trip.
Coach Layden introduced captains of various major sports at Notre Dame—Jim McGoldrick, Philadelphia, football; Earl Brown, Benton Harbor, Michigan, basketball; Joe Nardone, Youngstown, Ohio, baseball; and Greg Rice, Naples, Montana, who returned this week from an European trip with American track and field stars. Rice is track captain. Layden also praised the work of the managerial staff at Notre Dame as one of the most useful organizations in school.
Daniel Donovan, genial president of the Students’ Activities Council, was master of ceremonies.
The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, substituted for the Rev. John F. O’Hara, president of Notre Dame, and issued the official welcome. Robert McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, also was introduced.
Cheerleaders, led by John Celia, head cheerleader, directed the large crowd in a series of enthusiastic cheers before adjourning.
Sympathy on Death
The Scholastic extends the sympathy of the students to Mr. P. J. McGuinness on the recent death of his mother. Mr. McGuiness’ many kindnesses to The Scholastic in his position of supervisor of domestic maintenance make his loss keenly felt by every member of our staff.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
VINCENTIANS READY FOR BUSY SEASON
Music Notes
MEMORIAL SHORTENS GOLF COURSE PAR
“Just what is the St. Vincent de Paul Society?” Such a question some of you may have in mind very soon because if you have not already heard of the Society you will hear of it through the activities of the Notre Dame Conference.
In this column we will present the St. Vincent de Paul Society—its founder, its patron, its history, its outstanding personalities and its current work, especially that carried on by the campus conference.
It seems particularly appropriate for us to know something about the Society at this time. The schoolyear has been dedicated to others, and it is through the medium of the Society that men have done a great deal for others, and, in a stricter sense, for themselves.
Most people know that the St. Vincent de Paul Society helps the poor. The writer -first became familiar with its work by seeing the treasurer of the conference at home emptying the poor box. Many will think that this is as far as the work goes, that is, that money is collected from the poor box and distributed to the poor of the parish. However, important as the money is, it cannot compare with the good done for the poor by one who visits them and tries to cheer them up, and to direct them in their spiritual life. In studying the lives of those who have worked among the poor it is readily seen that they were men and women of exceptional character. They were no mere bill payers. They were willing to sacrifice themselves to help Christ’s poor, and in this denial of self they found a fuller life, so that we can say that when one works for the needy he is really working for himself.
Too many young fellows feel that the St. Vincent de Paul Society is one restricted to older men. This certainly is not true. Frederic Ozanam, the founder of the Society, was only 20 years old at its institution. Lacor-daire felt that the work in charity was a safeguard for the young men’s chastity. Ozanam, who was a college man at the time he organized the Society, is most interesting to us because of this. Next time we shall tell more about him.
Cool Weather Lingers
This recent cold spell that has brought the topcoats out of the bottom of the trunk has been typical of campus weather conditions throughout the summer. Believe it or not the mercury never quite reached 90 on the local thermometer during the whole month of July.
By William Mooney
“Music Notes” begins its second year. It would be well at the outset to outline the purpose for which this column has been created. Music Notes is intended primarily to be a campus guide to musical activity. Concerts, both on the campus and in South Bend, will be reviewed; all important radio programs will be listed and commented upon; and from time to time students who are outstanding
William Mooney He notes your music.
musicians will be introduced. Other miscellaneous notes on music and musicians will complete the column.
A list of concerts to be presented on the campus is not yet available. However, extensive plans are being made. Last year the University presented Richard Crooks, leading tenor of the Metropolitan Opera Company. The success of that concert will lead the way to the presentation of other great artists here on the campus.
The Civic Symphony Society of South Bend is making plans for a full year of varied musical entertainment. One of the most important events will be the appearance of the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Arthur Rodzinski.
Until recent years there has been a great difference between musical activity in Europe and in America. In Europe even the poorest peasants in the smallest villages were able to hear great music. Festivals and pageants were held everywhere and were attended by all classes. But in America music found its way only into the larger cities. Concerts were confined to those few who could afford to hear them Great music figured only slightly in the lives of the majority. This is no longer true.
Today we see on all sides a growing interest in music. The larger radio networks are assigning an ever
The erection of the Rockne Memorial which was begun last spring has necessitated several changes in the plan of the William J. Burke-Univer-sity golf course.
The site chosen for the Rockne Memorial necessitated the shortening of the 18th fairway. Its present length is 378 yards, having been made a par four instead of a par five hole.
With the planning of the new road to run back of the Memorial building there was also a change in the length of the number nine fairway. It also was changed from a par five to par four hole. This also necessitated a change in the location of the practice green. The new practice green is located east of the well house and directly back of the 18th green. With the change of the road plan it was also necessary to move number ten tee. The yardage has been changed to 386 yards, but the par remains the same.
These changes now make the course a par 70, two strokes having been cut from its parage.
A unique and very appropriate improvement has been made in the building of a concrete underpass from the golf room in the southwest corner of the Rockne Memorial Building to the golf course. It is approximately 80 feet long. The underpass emerges just behind number one tee. It will be used exclusively beginning next Spring when the golf course is offi-ciallly reopened.
increasing amount to their musical budgets. Grade schools, high schools, colleges, and universities everywhere are enlarging their music departments. The necessity for enlarging the music department here has been recognized. The success of any musical organization, such as the band or symphony orchestra, can only be insured by having a large number of students enrolled in the music department. For only in students -who are actually studying music can ability be found and interest maintained. To bring this about three vital steps are being taken: first, arrangements are being made to add to the faculty an internationally known musician and teacher; secondly, scholarships will be offered to outstanding high school musicians; thirdly, we will be given an opportunity this year to hear more great artists on the campus than ever before, proving that Notre Dame is aware of the importance of music, and is moving forward.
SEPTEMBER 23. 1938
College Parade \________________________________
By Frederick E. Sisk
Action
Curtain! Lights! Scissors! Armed with our newly sharpened shears and a pile of college newspapers that threatens to crowd us out of our “one-room apartment,” we are prepared for the year’s interesting notes from other college campi. In a certain sense with no dishonorable reflectiion on the name of Reader’s Digest by the comparison, it is our intention to make this weekly column a “College Digest.”
Maids Versus College Journalism
While we had ideas of starting the year off with the proverbial “bang” just as every other columnist is apt to think, our giant word dreams were swept away when we found we had at least one dissatisfied person before even beginning the column. She happens to be the maid who doesn’t like college journalism in any shape or form—and especially when it’s spread all over our room.
Newest Addition at Notre Dame: Guerin Hall
Between thumbing through the other college “rags” and listening to the Scholastic’s new editor shout and hound for early “copy,” we thought of a recent affair which hints that perhaps we 3,000 exiles from home are a little too harsh in calling only our Notre Dame professors “absentminded,” for the professors’ source of consolation might have been to have seen a letter last week addressed to Guerin Hall, Notre Dame. It developed that the epistle came from a fair young one who lives in a Guerin Hall at St. Mary’s. (No, no, you across - the - road; you haven’t any Guerin Hall, and besides it’s too early to be addressing envelopes this way, because the Sophomore Cotillion is more than a month away.) Note to Saint Mary-of-the-Woods: you’ll have to keep your Guerin Hall down there; we haven’t room for it on our campus.
“Floats” in the College Parade
Freshmen haze: It’s a green year at the University of California... 715 “dinks”— freshmen headwear — were sold the first day of registration.... at the same school, freshmen are allowed to “queen” only five minutes at a time.... “queening” is a different interpretation for “talking with a girl”.... at Loyola University in New Orleans, freshmen’s locks will not be cut this year by the soph barbers.
Other haze: The Irish World has
ARMY TRIP CHOSEN IN STUDENT POLL
The Notre Dame Student Special invades the Army at New York, Oct. 29! That’s the official decision of the Student Athletic Council following a campus wide poll which found popular sentiment overwhelmingly in fav-
John McAuliffe
S. A. C.’s Money-man.
or of an encore jaunt to Gotham— Army was the student trip in 1938.
Council President Dan Donovan deferred further discussion of the trip for a future date when the S.A.C. convened for its first meeting in the Library basement last Thursday evening. Fall elections held the spotlight'. Pat Gorman of Chicago was elected vice-president, Fred Digby of New Orleans was chosen secretary, and John McAuliffe of Syracuse was named treasurer for the coming year.
Before the meeting broke up tentative plans were made for the first pep meeting, Sept. 23. No definite decisions were made but the traditional torchlight parade, the band march through the campus, and the pregame talks in the gymnasium will probably comprise the bulk of the program.
had the name, “Corrigan,” plastered across its front pages so long that we bet the linotype machines can spell the name automatically by now.... someone should inform the same journal that the “Wrong Way California’s” name is not spelled, “Corrigan,” but “Nagirroc.” .... Father Hubbard, the famed glacier priest, is now on his way home from his eley* enth expedition and will give the students at the University of Santa Clara some “cold facts” in an address upon his return.... the same “univer-sitats” is now constructing a new law hall for “to be barristers” to strut around in.”
—o—
Worst “Fluke” in the Parade “Today’s Saturday, isn’t it?” “Yeah.”
“Goody. Funny papers tomorrow.”
—West Point Pointer.
Theatre
First Call
By Gerald Hogan
The Scholastic is happy to welcome the first installment of “Theatre.” The column will be conducted by the members of the Dramatic Club. Our thanks to Mr. Mills for his cooperation.
Many of the more conscientious among the freshmen will soon be asking themselves which of the extracurricular activities will be the most advantageous for their development at Notre Dame. If the next four years are to bear fruit they must be lived intensely. Activity, both in and out of the lecture room, must be full of interest and stimulation. Intellectual and spiritual advancement is swift under those conditions. There are many groups on the campus which offer opportunity for the exercise and development of the various talents. The Dramatic Club is one of these.
“Poise” is the usual prize which is calculated to entice the amateur actor. Impressive carriage has been proposed as a sort of Holy Grail for which we are all seeking. And it has its worth. But too frequently it is linked with a certain falseness which makes it a very cheap social grace. But acting has higher values and more admirable compensations. It completes, and satisfies, some of our prime spiritual needs. It is artistic expression. The labor involved in preparing a show for public presentation feeds our natural desire for the attainment of excellence. As we polish and perfect we experience the legitimate joys of the artist. We grow spiritually. The accurate portrayal of reality makes our self expression more fluent. Dramatics offers the chance for emotional release in a world of excessive and unnatural restraint. In the play the actor can live the buffoon, the neurotic, the timid, the braggart, the murderer or the saint and come to understand their joys and sorrows. Moreover, the spirit of cooperation and good fellowship which is essential to any theatrical group is a healthy influence in which to find oneself.
Director Mills is determined to give every aspirant a thoroughly fair and adequate audition. He needs talent. If you can act, even if you only suspect that you can, you will do wisely to respond to the call for try-outs when it is sounded. Watch the bulletin boards, and the best of luck to you all.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..—___Faculty Advisor MARK J. MITCHELL________________....Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY_________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney_______________________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly________________________________The Week
Frederick Sisk___________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr_____________________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney_____________________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff Introducing
News Staff William C. Fay________________________________News Editor
F. G. Barreda__________________________Assistant News Editor
John Kohn________________________________Harry Penrose
George Haithcock Joseph Perkins
George Neumann___________________________Stephen Smith
John Fern eding__________________________Thomas Marker
Edward Huston____________________________Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett___________________________________Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan John Quinn
James Newland John	White
Francis Kennedy________________________________________Frank	Aubrey
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the. school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72	September 23, 1938	No. I
a unique experience. For Notre Dame is herself unique. Not only in her organization is she unlike others; Notre Dame spirit is, we believe, something to be found nowhere else in the world.
You possibly do not see it now. You certainly cannot understand it, even though you may have already felt it. Few ever understand it, for any attempt to analyze it is likely to destroy its charm. Nevertheless it is here, and will, we feel, always be here.
At the risk of sounding pedantic, we would attempt briefly to point out wherein essentially spirit at Notre Dame is unique. From the moment you stepped on the campus as a student, you were inseparably linked with all Notre Dame men of the past and future. There, we believe, is the essence of the spiritual bond which exists between all Notre Dame men—there, in loyalty to one another through the recognition of a common means to a common end.
There must be no inference from this that Notre Dame spirits ends here. This alone would be a very selfish loyalty, certainly not laudable. We merely point out that this is what we see as the essence, the roots of the spirit. From it springs all the pleasant relationships that are Notre Dame.
As the weeks and months go by, you will, if you are fortunate, see this spirit working — in the classroom, on the athletic field, in your lives every moment that you spend here. And it will grow on you until- you take it for granted. Only when you leave will you appreciate it.
Notre Dame has a lot to give you, if you will let her. There are many names for it. “School spirit” suffers from an unpleasant connotation of naivete. Some would prefer to say “a heritage,” others tradition. We believe it is more than any of these. It is something deep and almost inexpressible. And though we have here tried to give it meaning, we realize, as you must, that it will inevitably rest in its fullness only in every individual one of you.—Mark J. Mitchell.
Volume LXXII
IN PRESENTING this, the first issue of the seventy-second volume of The Scholastic, the editors state simply that this volume will attempt primarily to present campus news to the student body adequately and readably. Your help in this will be indispensable. Your contributions, suggestions and criticisms, or the lack of them, will be the greatest factor in deciding the success or failure of our plans. It is your magazine, and your interests can best be served by your own participation in the work of publishing it. We are working for you, and if we can achieve in some measure the task we have set for ourselves, we shall feel that the 1938-1938 Scholastic has been a success.
For New Students Only
FOR ALMOST half of the student body, this is the first contact with any Notre Dame publication. Consequently, it is to them that we now turn. You, who are coming to Notre Dame for the first time, are undergoing
Better Than To "Get"
THOSE who listened to the sermon of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at the mass opening the school year were treated to a perfect illustration of what Notre Dame pledges itself to teach. The subject matter of the talk, inspiring though it certainly was, with its message of love of fellow man, fades into insignificance when we reflect on the principles underlying the words. Rooted deep in the heart of any institution that purposes to instill truth there must be a foundation of basic principles. And what principles could be more elemental, more simple than those of the Catholic school? Elemental is the concept of brotherly love and international peace gained through unselfishness. Yet, can we imagine anything that has the tremendous scope of the idea? An entire outlook, developed through long centuries of ceaseless “getting" would have to yield to a ceaseless “giving.” And it is that concept of “giving” that Notre Dame is most anxious to instill in its sons. Father Cavanaugh’s words should be long remembered, but the principles of which he speaks should be engraved in the memory of everyone who longs for true happiness.—Vincent DeCoursey.
SEPTEMBER 23. 1938
13
A Prophecy on Freedom
(A Revieiv)
By William P. Mahoney
Before pointing out the highlights in The Future of Freedom, a recent book on the state of the world, it might be wise to make a comment about its publishers. Nothing could be more proper as we pull the curtain on the parade of literature to appear in subsequent issues of the Scholastic. Sheed and Ward’s policy is to conquer the enemy through the written word, through simple, vital literature based upon sound Christian philosophy. The book reviewed here happens to be of an apologetic nature. But not all of Sheed and Ward’s products are apologetic. Nor are they pamphlets on this or that problem of morality. They may be plays, novels, or poetry. They are, however, Catholic plays, Catholic novels, and Catholic poetry. They stand out as good, healthy literature in opposition to the treacherous, un-Christian stuff that is often waved before us as the epitome of good literature. After all every piece of literature is a vehicle for the expression of some kind of belief, thought, philosophy, be it Christian or Atheism. Sheed and Ward literature is the Christian view.
Douglas Jerrold’s book is an enlightening view of the main issues in the battle now raging between Christianity and the various opposing experiments, Communism, Fascism, etc. Jerrold takes the role of both the historian and the prophet. As a historian, his interpretation of events is that a counter - revolution is now taking place—an awakening and rallying of Christianity’s forces against the revolutionary ideas started by Marx and the materialistic scientists of the last century. As a prophet, Jerrold predicts that if the present destruction of human freedom isn’t stopped, the whole Christian civilization will be at the mercy of various government experimentors, who make the State, not God, the ultimate judge. As Jerrold says, when a man’s freedom is Taken from him, his destiny is as putty in the hands of a Hitler or a Stalin. A Christian, therefore, can never regard man as any thing other than a free being. “Man’s claim to freedom rests, not on his intelligence, as fools believe, nor on his claims on the good nature of those more intelligent than himself, but on his first duty to serve God with his heart, mind, and soul.” The superiority of his duty and the fact that the State must limit its
powers in accordance with it are the bases of the Christian civilization. It is interesting to note that this basis has been provided for in our consti-
V
Warm Weather Blues
By Stephen Smith
Lay on, thick robe of choking heat
That gluts the summer of limp laziness
And paints delirium in daydreams; dizziness '
Swirls over us, as in our lethargy of time	■
Curl nebulous—in thin smoky ’round our brain
The twisted remnants of old hopes— a broken chain
Of scattered mem’ries—interludes in time
Bright spots, of brief ambitions, lost
Through sloth, the enervating foe of men,
All these unbosomed by regret; one truly can
Drift through dark zvaters, sad for things long lost.
At best a frenzied battle ’gainst the prince of hate
At ivorst a sinner’s damning, so we hesitate
To greet new actors entering the stage of life,
Who soon enough must join the combat, serve in strife.
A
tution, which recognizes “certain inalienable rights.”
One of the main arguments against the continued.existence of the Christian civilization is that evolved by the modem historians, mainly H. G. Wells. Jerrold discusses the argument in a chapter entitled, “Christianity and the New History.” According to the “new history,” the Christian era is one of an ever changing, ever im
proving succession of eras. It is now decaying, just as its predecessors decayed, and is going to be replaced by State Absolutism. Karl Marx first gave us this notion. But today certain historian-philosopher-anthropologists, such as Wells and Huxley, have made the picture much more colorful, but less realistic and plausible. Their story of man begins with his emergence from a sub-specie. From the day of that emergence, he goes through progressively better eras, or civilizations, up to the present mechanical age, which, in their materialistic minds, is the highest stage so far. They declare that another era is already supplanting the present one, that our Christian institutions are all part of an unstoppable evolution resolving itself toward perfection. The Christian civilization may be giving way to another civilization, but there is nothing to their story that it is all a part of a necessary evolution. Nor can we be assured that the one to come next will be better than the Christian civilization. Furthermore, a clear view of history reveals that these modem historians were fitting their interpretation to their end, using it as a means to the introduction of their crack-pot ideas as to how this world should be run. As Jerrold points out, anthropology proves the opposite. Instead of a series of ever changing, ever improving civilizations, one succeeded by another in an endless chain, there has been the birth, growth and decline of several well - constructed civilizations, all about on a par.
Those civilizations were the Babylonian, the Egyptian, the Greek, and the Roman. They did not follow each other in an evolutionary pattern. Nor was a later civilization necessarily an improvement over its predecessors. The evolutionary interpretation of history is the mere fiction of a group of men who are trying to justify the entrance of another order. Besides, as Douglas Jerrold so forcefully puts it, “It happens to be the destiny of man to have an immortal soul redeemed by Christ, not to be an inseparable member of an economic system devised by Mr. Wells.”
But let the leaders of the present civilization beware. History teaches, according to Jerrold, that there are several earmarks of a declining civilization. A civilization’s decline fol
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
lows a period of maximum wealth. A decline follows a growth of materialism and a concurrent decay of spirituality. A decline follows a departure from traditional moral standards^ particularly in regard to sexual morality. Are not these earmarks evident today?
In a remarkable chapter on “The Case for Revolution” Mr. Jerrold denies that a revolution overthrowing the present order is an inevitable step in an evolution of societies. He says that if a revolution comes about it will be a deliberate move on the part of the leftist experimenters. Before it may go forward, it must, according to Jerrold, satisfy two conditions: the present Christian order must have failed to such an extent that there is a need for a substitute; and the new system advocated must be workable. The writer would only destroy the force and brilliance of Jerrold’s argument if he tried to put it down here.
It is sufficient to say that Jerrold concludes that the present evils are
the result, ont of the workings of the Christian order, but of its lack of application and decay. There is, then, a need, not for replacement of Christianity, but for its reassertion. As to the workability of the new system, Jerrold says:
“The revolutionary experiment is not merely unnecessary, judged by prudential standards, it is not merely an unjustified confession of the impossibility of the Christian ideal of a world of free men, it is also an experiment which hold out no reasonable hope of yielding even the material benefits which are all that it claims to confer.”
Numerous chapters follow the ones reviewed, all of them worthy of discussion. But, like those sketched above, they are so meaty and full of important observations that it would take this reviewer a volume to reproduce even the essence of each. Some of the Chapter headings will give you an idea of what more there is in this book: “The Case for Secularism,”
“Christianity, Democracy, and Dictatorship,” “Contemporary Turope and the Future of Christianity,” “Christianity and Fascism,” and others.
Mr. Jerrold states the precise reaction a Catholic will get from reading The Future of Freedom at the end of the chapter on “The Case for Revolution”:
“This conclusion (that a new experiment would destroy man for God) is not one that can ease the consciences of Christian men and women. Rather it must make them doubly uneasy. It would be much easier for us to sit back and say: The world is evolving into a new pattern... As things are, there can be no peace in the modern world for those who wish to preserve for future generations the full estate of man. We have the double duty of defending what is left of the Christian order and of destroying that part of our present social order which is incompatible with the rights of Christians.”
Samaritan
By Gerald Fitz Gerald Saegert
Warfare in China differs from occidental warfare in that society does not concern itself with the individual. The unit is the group made up of those whose places, if they die, are taken by others. Single lives mean nothing. Foreign countries have taken humanitarian steps in an effort to put an end to this barbarism. Great Britain has been the leader in this field with modern hospitals established in the numerous Chinese Provinces.
In the tiny village of Paoting outside the City of Nanking, where a battle had been raging for weeks, lay the Wade Memorial Hospital. It was one of the few buildings that escaped the ravages of Japanese bombs. An endless stream of stretchers and limping, straggling human hulks poured into the welcoming doors of the hospital. The Jap airplane raid had been a great success.
Doctor Lawrence Stanton, a British army surgeon and veteran of many far Eastern conflicts, was in charge of Wade Memorial. He possessed the personality and perseverance of a country doctor. In his many years of experience he had never witnessed such horrible pictures of human suffering. Mangled, torn, and lifeless bodies passed in a bloody procession before him. The hospital was capable of accommodating a hundred but this number had been passed hours before. To meet such an unexpected
condition blankets were strewn on the floor, in an orderly fashion, ready to receive shell-torn bodies. The staff, under the direction of Doctor Stanton, worked feverishly to alleviate the agonies of the wounded. Doctors and nurses administered hypodermics to the more seriously wounded while other patients were bathed and comforted. Chinese orderlies carried covered bodies from the rear of the hospital where they were placed in wagons and carted off to hastily dug graves. Above the moans of the wounded could be heard the wailing of the women and children outside the hospital walls. They were anxious to discover whether any of the missing members of their family were listed among the victims of the bombing attack.
A line had been formed into the grounds of the hospital. Each visitor petitioned the orderly in charge to scan his lists and find if the names of their loved ones were on it. Mothers with half-starved, disease-ridden children clinging to them pleaded for information. Doctor Stanton was as patient and kind as a man could be under the existing circumstances. He did all he could to secure information to satisfy this weeping mass of peasantry.
To add to the disorder, typhoid fever had broken out amongst the people. A liimted supply of serum was on hand but not enough to cope
with present conditions. Messengers were sent to secure more, if it were possible. As the hours slipped by the efforts of the staff appeared to be in vain. They had finished caring for the bomb victims but now the menace of typhoid caused them to renew their dwindling vigor. Their cause was apparently hopeless but still there was work to be done.
From out of the crowd in front of Doctor Stanton’s desk appeared a shabbily dressed woman. In her arms was a baby no more than a year old. Despite her shabby dress and disarranged hair he recognized her as the wife of the town’s wealthiest citizen. With a lopk of despair and tears streaming down her face she approached the doctor and pleaded with him to take her baby, the only thing Japanese bombs had left her. The doctor naturally refused and tried to comfort the distraught woman. She knelt on the floor holding the baby with both arms extended in a sacrificial gesture. Doctor Stanton took the child tenderly in his arms and with a look of pity upon his face, promised to care for the child. An orderly nearby, surprised at the action of the doctor, inquired of him why he had taken the baby. He lowered his tired eyes and tears slid down his cheeks before he answered. Handing the child to the orderly, he said with trembling voice, “The baby is dead.”	■
SEPTEMBER 23. 1938
15
KANSAS MAY SURPRISE US, WARNS LAYDEN
PRACTICE OPENS FOR INTERHALL SPORTS
Notre Dame’s army of interhall athletes started to reassemble on last Monday afternoon when the annual call came from the Department of Physical Education for all those interested in such sports to report for the various practices.
As has been the custom in past year the department will conduct both a soccer league and a pass football league. Returning almost intact to the undergraduate wars will be the undefeated junior soccer team, coached as sophomores last fall by Norvall Hunthausen, varsity baseball pitcher. The team, one of the finest seen in interhall competition in some time, has lost only two men, and hence will be primed to meet its old foes from Cavanaugh, Brownson, Zahm, and other halls.
Practice will continue in both sports from now on, with sessions scheduled for Sunday morning at 10 o’clock in the form of practice games. Both leagues will open on Oct. 2.
Wallace Forecasts
Just what the nation may expect from collegiate football this year has been presented by Frank Wallace, Notre Dame, ’23, in the article “Pigskin Preview of 1938,” published in this weeek’s Saturday Evening Post. Written in typical Wallace style, it enables the football devotee to gain a fine perspective of the relative strengths of various elevens, as well as information on the more promising gridsters of 1938.
Of prime interest to men of Notre Dame is what Wallace has to say about Elmer Layden’s 1938 machine. He says: “Notre Dame, again facing one of the toughest schedules of the year, will have the same type of team as in 1937. The Irish have not been getting those outstanding backs, without which Notre Dame cannot function at its best.” As potential stars, Wallace picks from the Irish: Captain Jim McGoldrick, Joe DeFranco, Mario Tonelli, Harry Stevenson, Bob Saggau, and Ed Beinor.
Elmer Layden’s worries cannot have been lessened any after reading the article, for Wallace predicts that Minnesota, Illinois, Carnegie Tech, Northwestern, and Southern California will be among the best in the country.
Coach Elmer Layden He wotildn’t be surprised.
Distribute Kans. Tickets
Student tickets will be distributed next week, for the Kansas game, upon presentation of athletic books at the ticket office on the ground floor of the Main Building.
Seniors—Monday, 12:30-5:00 p.m.
Juniors—Tuesday, 12:30-5:00 p.m.
Sophomores — Wednesday, 12:305:00 p.m.
Freshmen — Thursday, 12:30-5:00 p.m.
1938 VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 1 Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 8 Georgia Tech at Atlanta Oct. 15 Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. .22 Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 29 Army at New York Nov. 5 Navy at Baltimore Nov. 12 Minnesota at Notre Dame Nov. 19 Northwestern at Evanston Dec. 3 Southern Cal. at Los Angeles
V
1938 “B” TEAM SCHEDULE
Oct. 2 Jordan College, at Menominee, Michigan
Oct. 8 Northwestern University “B” Team, at Evanston
Oct. 15 University of Illinois “B” Team, at Champaign
Oct. 29 Purdue University “B” Team, at Notre Dame
By Robert B. Voelker
Elmer Layden, smiling cautiously, feet propped on the edge of his desk, announced that every position was “wide open” and that “only heads up ball” would win a berth on the 1938 Notre Dame Varsity. “Every sophomore has a good chance to play ball this year. We will be more patient with an aggressive mistake than with any display of a lack of effort,” drawled Mr. Layden, between the squeaks of his tilted chair.
Layden pointed out that the opening game with the University of Kansas on October 1 would by no means be a warm-up session for the Irish. “The Jayhawkers,” he said, “were lacking in backfield material last year, but the ball carrying department has been decidedly strengthened by additional reserve material.”
At this point we were interrupted by a small boy of ten or twelve. He was one of the caddies from the local course who wanted to borrow a football for a backyard scrimmage with his buddies. In his best coaching style, Mr. Layden cautioned the boy that the ball was not to be kicked around with a mashie. As the lad hurried off Coach Layden shouted: “And that’s a ‘No-Fumble’ ball, so be careful with it.” Turning, he added seriously : “I wish we had one.”
Mr. Layden went on to say that the traditional pre-game pessimism displayed by so many coaches was due to the constant threat of minor injuries. “Some men,” he said, “are leaders, and if a minor mishap sends them to the sidelines it is often necessary to completely reorganize the team.” Tom Brennan and John Kelley, ends, have already been injured, but should be able to see action in the annual Frosh-Varsity game tomorrow. In addition, Gus Bossu, the only veteran right guard returning, has a sprained back, and Wally Borer, a reserve back, is suffering from a turned ankle.
Speaking of the rest of the schedule, Mr. Layden said that Georgia Tech would be a real threat, since the game will be played under the scorching Atlanta sun, which might ultimately slow the Irish ball carriers to a walk. He says Minnesota is strong this year, although they will feel the loss of DeMetro and Spaticini who played brilliantly last Fall. .
The shifts made last Spring and early this Fall seem to be satisfactory, according to Coach Layden. Lou Zontini, a blocking left halfback last year, has become a ball-carrying right half. Chuck Riffle, fullback, is at right guard, along with Joe Mc-Donaugh.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LAYDEN MEN CLASH WITH FROSH GRIDSTERS TOMORROW IN 1938 IRISH PREVIEW
GOLF, TENNIS TEAMS END SEASON WELL
By Pete Sheehan
Coach Elmer Layden and his squad of eight teams will unofficially launch the ’38 football season tomorrow at 2 p.m. (C.S.T.) when they meet a band of freshmen under the direction of “Jake” Kline in the annual Varsity-Frosh contest at the Stadium. This engagement will give the coaches an opportunity to test this year’s inexperienced varsity under fire and will also serve as a preview to the students and local
fans	Call For Trackmen
Jake Kune Faces long afternoon.
Nothing will be at stake. No tricks wall be let out of the bag. However, we can be sure that every member of the Varsity will be eager to gain a berth on the first team which, as yet, has not been decided upon. The Freshmen outfit — composed of Allstate selections, prep sensations and underrated high school players—will be anxious to make their first impression upon Elmer Layden a lasting one.
Earl Brown, a letterman and captain-elect of basketball, will start at the left flank with Bill Kerr in reserve. John Kelly and Tom Brennan are the most promising right end candidates with the former the likely choice.
The tackle positions will be held down by Joe Beinor and Paul Kell who will be working for their third monograms. Brew and Harvey from last years reserves are second choices.
Capt. Jim McGoldrick and Joe DeFranco are leading the parade at left guard while Aug Bossu and Chuck Biffle, reserve full back last year, are the most likely candidates for the wide open space at right guard.
Longhi is a certain starter at center with McIntyre a surprise second choice.
Sitko will call signals for the first team with Mario Tonnelli at fullback and Stevenson and Zontini running at the halves. Hofer, Sheridan, Corgan and Thesing will line up in the shock troop backfield.
By Nicholson
With the cool Fall wind whipping through the air and the first faint harbinger of the Autumn season here and there about the campus, Coach John Nicholson posted this week the first notices for the commencement of Fall track practice.
Cross country will have a light schedule, although this year’s schedule ontains two meets instead of one, as was the case last season. Just what the two meets are has not been announced. Leading candidates for this year’s team were virtually all members of Nick’s great cinder squad of last Spring. They probably will line up in this order: Captain Greg Rice, Joe Obres, Steve Szumachow-ski, Curt Hestor, Bill Donnelly, and John Martin. Included among the other candidates is Hank Halpin, varsity 440 man. The harriers engaged in one meet last year, a multiple-team affair, in which they finished behind the strong Indiana, Wisconsin, and Michigan teams.
Fall track practice will no doubt bring a headache or two to Nick, for the loss of stars such as Dan Gibbs, Bill Clifford, Hal Langton, and Johnny Francis cannot be taken too light ly. The ore of a powerful squad can be built, however, around Captain Rice, Leonis, Halpin, Coughlin, Lawrence, Deam, Beinor, and others. Several sophomores are reported to be very promising material.
Another of the Fighting Irish football alumni has joined the ranks of major college coaches. Hughie Devore, Notre Dame ’34, will take the grid team of Providence (R. I.) College in hand this fall in an attempt to put the Friars back up with the leaders in Eastern college football. Hughie was one of “Hunk” Anderson’s finest ends at Notre Dame, pairing with All - American Wayne Millner, now of the Washington Redskins. As his assistant at Providence Devore has chosen a former Notre Dame “B” team player, Ed Crotte.
Notre Dame’s tennis and golf activities in intercollegiate competition during the past summer months can be explained rather nicely in Julius Caesar’s ancient yet well known axiom, although somewhat revised, “They went, they saw, and they almost conquered.”
As a matter of fact they did conquer on one occasion and performed so well in other events that high recognition can rightfully be bestowed on them.
Last June, with nothing to bother them in the way of studies, the Irish racket wielders took a trip down to Greencastle, Ind., home of De Pauw University and gave a splendid performance in the annual Indiana State Tennis tournament.
Bill Fay and Charley Rodgers carried the Notre Dame standard in the final matches of tournament play, both performing superby as the score sheet indicates. After some gruelling matches with the best the state had to offer, Fay went to the finals in the singles. Here he dropped close sets to Ed Lindsay of De Pauw. The scores were 7-5, 1-6, 6-4 and 8-6.
Fay and Rodgers found new life when the doubles rolled around, to defeat Lindsay and Linn of the home school three out of four sets. Final scores read 9-7, 8-10, 6-4 and 6-4.
Notre Dame linksmen participated in a tournament the latter part of June, which undoubtedly was the toughest golf engagement they took part in during the entire year. By saying “toughest” we are using a mild term, considering the swinging ability of the numerous golf stars entered in competitive play.
The occasion was the annual Intercollegiate tournament held this year at Louisville, which attracted players from some of the largest schools in the United States.
The Irish swingers, led by Captain Tom Sheehan and Phil Donahue, finished sixth in the tournament with a total score of 620. But with such outstanding schools as Georgia Tech, Michigan, Dartmouth, Yale, Michigan State, Ohio State, Pittsburgh, Princeton, Southern California, Texas, and Minnesota finishing behind Notre Dame, sixth place can well be considered “a bit of all right.”
Stanford was the winner of the tournament with North Carolina, Oklahoma, Louisiana State and Georgetown University finishing in that order ahead of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame had seven entries in (Continued on Page 23)
SEPTEMBER 23, 1938
17
BASEBALLERS. NETMEN END FINE SEASONS
Notre Dame’s track and baseball teams brought their spring seasons to most successful conclusions with red letter victories.
The track team, boasting the best balance in years, put on fine exhibitions to take the state title and the C.I.C. Outdoor championship.
Down at Bloomington for the state get-together Notre Dame flashed to its best effort of the year in winning, scoring 66 points to lead Indiana’s 55 points, next in a field of six. The outstanding stars for the Blue and Gold were: Bill Clifford, tying the state record of 9.6 for the hundred; Johnny Francis winning the 880 in a new Notre Dame record of 1:52.7; Ted Leonas casting shadows of a great future in taking the high jump at 6 feet 5% inches; and Bill Fay-monville taking double honors in the shot and discus.
For the team as a whole, the C.I.C. affair at Milwaukee was the last meet. Winning but two firsts Nick’s well-balanced team picked up 37 points to beat out 22 other schools led by Michigan State with 28. Dan Gibbs and Captain-elect Rice were the two winners for the Irish. Gibbs brought his collegiate vaulting to a grand finish at 13 feet 9 inches, while Rice legged the two mile distance in the fast time of 9:16.6.
The last event of the year was the N.C.A.A. meet at Minneapolis. Coach Nicholson took a few of the year’s best men, and although they won no firsts the Blue and Gold put on their best showing in years. Clifford placed in the 100, and Faymonville in the discus. The two outstanding performances were given by Francis in the 880, who was beaten by only a step in a 1:51.3 race with the Olympic champion, Johnny Woodruff, and Greg Rice who pushed the two mile winner to a new national collegiate record.
The baseball team played its final two games before a commencement crowd and put on an appropriate display for the old and new grads with 4-3 and 5-3 wins over Wisconsin. This gave the Klinemen a won and lost record of 11-6 for the year.
Among the former Notre Dame stars who recently accepted football coaching jobs are: Harry Marr, University of Wichita; Johnny Murphy, Endicott (N.Y.) High School; Pat McCarty, Ursuline High, Youngstown, Ohio; Andy Puplis, Crystal Lake, HL; Ennio Arboit, Spaulding Institute, Peoria, HL; Joe Gleason, Central Catholic .High School, Hammond, Ind.; Fred Carideo, Visitation High, Detroit; and Joe Strand, South Bend Central High.
I Introducing J
The chesty-looking boy with the heating apparatus wrapped about his left ankle is James Joseph McGoldrick, captain of Notre Dame football for 1938. Jim is using the medical clinic in the field house following Saturday’s scrimmage. He volunteers his opinion that “Scrap” Young, attorney-masseur-trained, is the “. . . world’s greatest trainer.”
Jim is “chesty” only because he
packs the bulk of his 175 pounds in the upper-half of a 5-foot, 10-inch frame. This does not make Jim a “watch charm” guard, but it gives him less heft than Notre Dame guards are wont to boast.
Jim came to Notre Dame from West Catholic High in Philadelphia, and he followed a list of famous Fighting Irish that includes Joe Boland, Marty Brill, Tom Conley, Joe Maxwell, Vince McNally, Jim Leonard, John Levicki, and Babe Farshall.
When McGoldrick is awarded his degree next June with a major in accounting and a minor in philosophy, he will have paved the path for his “big brother,” Owen, a 195-pound tackle who enrolls in the fall term of ’39.
Our captain is the oldest of three children, one being a “Colleen;” and he is Irish “. . . on both sides,” which makes his “well-done.”
McGoldrick was “Mick” in Philadelphia, but his college mates have shifted his monicker from the Irish version to the Scotch, making it to read “Mac.” At West Catholic he won letters in ice - hockey, crew, swimming, and football. In the latter sport he was all-City guard after having been shifted from tackle.
Let’s listen to Coach Elmer Layden: “Jim is big enough to defend himself, yet shifty enough to match the speed of the lighter rivals. His fast, deep thinking makes him a great leader of interference and a spectac-(Continued on Page 22)
VARIETY OF SUMMER JOBS FOR GRIDMEN
By Francis Kennedy
Does your home need painting? If it does, ask Elmer Layden to send over a few of his football players, eight of whom spent the summer wielding paint - brushes instead of footballs. Besides these eight potential “da Vincis” the squad of 100 men also contains bank-tellers, bill collectors, bakers, and laborers, mentioning only a few.
Armand Lopez managed a general store in Fabens, Texas. Walt Krist-off was a salesman in Chicago. Dick Ames did seismograph work in the coastal swamps of Louisiana, and managed to get a touch of malaria. Harold Borer was a dockman for the New York ferry boats. Frank Brew saw the Great Lakes through a porthole, with a coal shovel in his hands.
Ed Beinor spent the latter part of the summer touring Lithuania with a team of American-Lithuanians who competed in track and basketball against the native team. Ed Fenlon and Bill McGannon worked in breweries, but maintained their football condition. Joe Harrington was a stevedore all summer in New Orleans. Al Mooney spent the summer as a caddy. Johnny Mortell had an unenviable job—he worked in a cemetery. Steve Rogenski was an assembler for a Moline harvester company.
Bob Saggau had the toughest summer of all—fishing, sleeping, eating, swimming, and loafing. Ed Simonich worked for his home-town gas company. Bob Sullivan was a night watchman for a gold dredging company in Helena, Montana. Frank Tuck spent his summer with the Marine Corps reserve, and ought to know the Navy’s signals. Jim Young did office work. Jim Petrillo leaned on a shovel for a Chicago tunnel construction company. Cliff Buckley ran copy for the New York Times, and Homer Ferguson did some cub reporting. Gene DeLay was a bank teHer in Norfolk, Neb. Louis Cacchioli worked in a fur-processing factory. Rube Marquardt enlarged his muscles in a foundry. Jim Barrett was a baker. Jim Essick worked as a slaughterer in a meat-packing house.
Among the laborers are Harry Stevenson, and Paul Morrison with a soap company in New Jersey; Carl Fricke, in a wholesale paper house, and Charles Theisen in an oil and grease warehouse. Johnny McMahon was with a line gang for the Indianapolis Power and Light company.
Stan Adamonis, Joe DeFranco, Joe Papa, and Chuck Riffle were employed in steel mills. Others who worked as laborers on construction jobs are: Sam Hauserman, and Frank Albert.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
For the first time since Elmer Layden became head coach of football in 1934, sports writers at large are wailing more pessimistically than he about the team’s prospects. The forebodings of the coach are never to be regarded too seriously, for we can never be sure whether he really thinks the team is as bad as he says, or whether he is prompted by notions of his own on team-psychology. And this year it seems the forebodings of the newspapermen are not to be taken too seriously either, simply because the out-of-town “experts” cannot and do not know the quality of the Irish squadmen coming up—last year’s reserves and freshmen, who got in few if any games, and rated no headlines.
The simple facts, issued by Publicity Director Joe Petritz, that there are but three men back from last year’s eleven, and altogether only ten monogram men, and a glance at the Notre Dame schedule do lead one to the conclusion that there will be all blue and no gold for the Irish this season. But an afternoon of observation out on Cartier Field should convince anyone that the Irish are just as talented as they usually are, that Coach Layden has just as' many to choose from as he usually has. The squad as a whole lacks only experience; and while experience is always important in such a shifting, fastbreaking game as football, lack of it is always compensated for by a certain nervous elan that a team of confident “old hands” does not possess.
V
This 1938 team of ours definitely possesses verve, and though the line is softer than last year’s on defense, and the backs are still terribly sloppy about breaking up passes, the attack is improving, blocking is getting better, and the passing, particularly with Stevenson at left half, is amazingly accurate. They tell us that right guard, right end, and quarterback are the doubtful positions; and lack of experience is given as the reason for the doubt. At guard, Senior Augie Bossu is quick and intelligent; Junior Chuck Riffle is big, strong, and learning fast. Both men are eager and earnest — and there are other eager, earnest men right behind them. At end, Juniors Johnny Kelly and Tom Brennan, Senior Ed Broscoe, and Sophomore Johnny O’Brien have been displaying efficiency at end. And at quarterback, Sitko, Hofer and Crowe are all blocking well, receiving punts and passes well, tackling and running well in the open field, and calling plays smartly. These men all have the will and the physical
ability to play their positions well; experience will come soon enough. It would be foolish to expect a superseason, but you may be sure that the team representing Notre Dame will be a good one.
V
This is hardly the season to be talking about track, but we must say something about the summer activities of Greg Rice, captain-elect of this year’s track squad. Little Greg competed in ten big meets since school ended last June, four in the United States and six in Europe, with an American team sponsored by the A.A.U.
In these meets, running against world record-holders, Greg entered twelve races, won seven, placed second in two, third in one, fourth in two. He lost to Fenske of Wisconsin in the mile but beat Mehl of Wisconsin in the two-mile at the Central Collegiate Conference at Milwaukee. Mehl then beat him at the NCAA meet at Minneapolis by a foot in 9:11. At the A.A.U. meet at Buffalo, July 4th, Greg trimmed the country’s best distance runners in the 5,000-meter run, doing 15:15 and earning for himself a place on one of the A.A.U. squads and headed for Europe. A few days before sailing, he ran third in an exhibition mile at New York, behind Archie San Romani and Blaine Rideout.
In Europe he first ran in the three mile run at White City Stadium, London, finishing fourth but beating Ward of England, the British Empire champion. Next he lost a 1500-meter handicap run to Sydney Wooderson, and two other English runners who started ahead of him. He then cleaned up in the remainder of his races, doing the 5,000 meters in 14:56 at Berlin, in 14:52.4 at Budapest, beating Miklos Szabo of Hungary, holder of the two-mile world record, and coasting in over a comparatively easy field at Athens. At Dresden he won the 3,000 meters in about 8:40, and at Athens, running on a lop-sided track where the back-stretch was one meter higher than the homestretch, and the turns went up and down hill, he won the 1500 meter in 4:03.4.
V
This is the finest record any American has ever made at the long distances against foreign competition, and marks Greg Rice not only as the greatest distance runner ever to compete for Notre Dame, but the greatest in the United States, and one of the greatest in the world.
LARGE FROSH SQUAD REPORTS TO KLINE
By Rank Aubrey
Field Marshal Jake Kline issued his annual call to arms last week. Which is another way of saying that Coach Kline has summoned another eager horde of Freshman grid candidates to the spacious reaches of Cartier Field. Starting with a meager 50 or more green-jerseyed frosh the roster has lengthened day by day until nearly 150 men were present for Tuesday’s workout.
You know what the cops do when they’re outnumbered. That’s what Coach Kline did — call out the reserves. Backing him up this year will be a staff of three of last year’s varsity squad—oddly enough, all of them guards. Joe Kuharich, as tough a guard as ever played in the Mid-west will endeavor to impart his working knowledge of line play to all the future “mules.” Joe won All-American mention last fall for his pile-driving defensive play against Minnesota and Carnegie Tech. Assisting him will be his former understudy at guard, Walt Marshall, who will be worth his weight in Army tickets if he can show the Freshies how to block like he used to. The third coach is Harvey Foster, letterman and former runner-up to Joe Ruetz and this year’s captain Jim McGoldrick at left guard. Harv will aid Jake Kline in drilling the backs.
With a wealth of material on hand Coaches Kline and company are busy • explaining the intricacies of the Notre Dame shift, split ends, and crossblocking in the line to some of the neophytes. As the conditioning process gets under way Jake will have his eye on a possible starting lineup for the coming game with the varsity. After that the squad will be divided into two groups, each learning the plays of different Notre Dame opponents. These teams equipped with Kansas, Illinois, and Georgia Tech plays, for instance, will then run them off against the Laydenmen the week preceding the respective games. This custom is a valuable one in aiding the varsity to gain a preview of enemy plays with a possible means to arrange a defense to meet each separate type of offense, which will be arrayed against them this year.
Just what kind of prospects Coach . Kline has on hand this year remains to be seen. But they will have to be mighty good to measure up to the many promising players developed last year. Kline’s ’37 alumni includes such varsity timber as Walt O’Meara, q.b., George Rassas, l.e., Bob Saggau, I.h., Rube Marquardt, r.h., Milt Pei-pul, f.b., Tom Gallagher, l.t., Pete Kelly, l.g., and Jack O’Brien, r.e.
SEPTEMBER 23, 1938
19
1WU TZT d TIFT 1? "fiF ^eil XI JL W O" W JLJLJX week’s events.
Verified! — Unbiased! — Illustrated! — Departmentalized! Special offer for students and professors for either personal use or as a supplement to formal studies in Economics, Politics, History, Sociology and Commerce.
CHECK OFFER DESIRED
20	weeks__$1.00	(I	semester)
40	weeks__$2.00	(2	semesters)
52	weeks__$2.25	(I	year)
Name______
Address___ City & State
Detach coupon and mail with remittance to LeRoy Carlson, c/o McCall Corporation 58 E. Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Waterman's
Other pent fraM
*5*250
REMEMBER—THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR WATERMAN’S INK

ONLY
MODERN STYLING...“Superstreamed”. Mod* ern colors. Grip fits your fingers.
CONSTANT INK CONTROL... One stroke fills pen. Fast-starting. Steady ink-flow. INK-WINDOW.
YOUR PENPOINT...Handcrafted, 14 kt., solid-gold, iridium-tipped points suit your writing.
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
FREE!
GILBERT’S
“One Student Tells Another”
To celebrate the 1938-39 school year and the opening of our new and beautiful South Bend store, Gilbert's will give to the first two hundred students visiting our store on Saturday afternoon, September 24,
Free Theatre Passes
Gilbert's features a complete line of clothes to suit the college wardrobe — including Dobbs and Mallory hats, Florsheim shoes, Arrow and Enro shirts (tab and button down models) and Society Brand suits and overcoats.
Each week in this same column Gilbert's will run a flash bulletin on the latest trends in university styles— priced to fit the college budget.
GILBERT’S
“One Student Tells Another”
813-815 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST.
FREE!
20;THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
A YEAR BEGINS....
• Another year of study and fun and sports and examinations. It will be a crowded year — too crowded to waste time. And that's where we come in. Just plan your trips via South Shore Line and you'll know what we mean. You save time starting (there's a South Shore Line train every hour during the day), and save time on the way — no traffic to delay you when you ride the South Shore Line. And it costs less than driving your own automobile!
THE FASTEST, SAFEST, MOST DEPENDABLE WAY TO CHICAGO
Spray From The Shower Room
Ed Beinor, known chiefly in this country as a fast left tackle, won a track laurel or two for himself in Europe with a Lithuanian-American squad. He got a glimpse of Scanda-navia, and won the shot put in Lithuania with a heave of 47 feet 11 inches in the rain. On request he put the iron ball on a dry day and beat 50 feet. It must be the Baltic sea-air or something, for Ed has never done much over 48 feet for Notre Dame. Coach “Nick” is anxious to hear all about it.
Emmett Crowe insists that it’s not brains but a good batch of blockers that make a good quarterback.
It was interesting during last Saturday’s big scrimmage to see the two midgets at left half, Ben Sheridan and Sweeney Tuck, swapping 50-yard kicks.
What Has
MRS. WASP Got Against the Noble Oak Tree?
We haven’t the foggiest notion. But we do know she bores into it to deposit her eggs. And the indignant oak develops a protective growth known as a gall, from which is obtained the tannin used in Penit, the superior new ink.by Sanford.
• You don’t care a hoot? We thought you wouldn’t. But you might care to know that Penit is a free-flowing, easy-writing, trouble-proof ... a brilliant, sure-fire ink for every make of fountain pen. Try it.
2-oz. bottle, 15c;4-oz. bottle with chamois akin penwiper 25c, at your college supply store.
Also on Saturday Johnny McMahon got caught hitch-hiking on a cut-back over guard; the defense snarled the play up a little and Johnny found himself straddling one of his inter-ferers for a five-yard free ride.
FALL GOLF TOURNEY GETS UNDERWAY
The annual Fall University Open Golf Championship play began last Saturday, Sept. 17, with more than 50 aspiring young golfers.
The tournament consists of 72 holes of stroke play to be played on four days, Sept. 17, 18, 24, and 25. Eighteen holes will be played each day.
The defending University champion is Tommy Sheehan who is also leading the field at the end of 36 holes , of play with a score of 142 strokes.
Trophies will be presented to the winner and runner-up by William A. Burke, son of William J. Burke, who inaugurated the University Golf Course.
The scores for the first 36 holes played by the remaining competitors follows:
1.	Sheehan. Thomas 69-73—142
2.	Nield, Sammy__________________70-76—146
3.	Malloy, Pat 74-73—147
4.	Bertsch, Bob__________________73-75—148
5.	Schaller, William_____________73-78—151
6.	Galbraith, William 79-72—151
7.	Smith, Bob--------------------72-80—152
8.	Bennett, Charles______________74-78—152
9.	Kastens, Oscar________________77-78—155
10.	Castleman. William___________72-84—156
11.	Costello, George_____________76-80—156
12.	Bransfield, Charles__________78-78—156
13	Hagen Walt __________.________77-80—157
14.	Centlivre, Bob_______________78-79—157
15.	Wilson, William______________73-82—155
16.	Wilson, Harry________________79-79—158
17.	Cody, Jack___________________83-76—159
18.	Stulb, Joe-------------------80-79—159
19.	Aubrey, Ed--------------------80-79—159
20.	Schreiber, George____________75-85—160
21.	Donahue Phil_________________78-83—161
22.	Fahrendorf, J._______________79-83—162
23.	Schleck, Ray-----------------82-81—163
24.	Carroll, Phil----------------80-84—164
25.	Cook, Joe--------------------80-85—165
26.	Anderson, William____________83-84—167
27.	Sheedy, Dan__________________82-86—168
28.	Anderson, Norm_______________81-87—168
29.	Cosgrove, Jerry______________81-90—171
30.	Bischoff, Bob________________90-82—172
Specialising in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
'	Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 48251
SEPTEMBER 23. 1938
21
STUDENT MISSIONS OPEN
(Continued from Page 3) missions are as follows: Sunday night, “Salvation”; Monday night, “Sin”; Tuesday night, “Death”; Wednesday night, “Judgment”; Thursday night, “Passion of Our Lord”; Friday night, “Perseverance.”
The intentions of the mission masses for the past week are: Monday, Leonard Casassa; Tuesday, Coleman Hails; Wednesday, next student to die; Thursday, Judge William
Cain; Friday, Notre Dame men who died in the past year; Saturday, for those who made the mission.
Facilities for confessions during the missions are: each morning and evening during services in Sacred Heart Church; mornings, 7:20 to 10:00 in Howard and Cavanaugh Chapels; after supper in Dillon and Basement Chapels; till noon in Dillon; after the mission, 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. in Dillon, Howard, and Cavanaugh.
SCHOOL YEAR OPENS
(Continued from Page 3)
the world found a man who was loved not only for his personal deeds but mainly for the love and charity he bestowed upon his fellow men.
“It is up to you as true Notre Dame men to follow the spirit of Christ in dedicatiing yourselves for others. Make this your sacramental year, your year of unselfishness, the year you have planned to give to Christ and to your fellow men.”
Start On Even Terms
with Any Other Student
by getting the Pen that Has What It Takes to help you rate marks that you can write home about

PENS
93J0,93J5,94,95
Held to the light it shows the ...... __
ENTIRE ink supply—shows when to refill. And it holds such a CO*	wuuuumia Mtauunuur mmr


You can SEE the level of ink at all times— see when to refill—so it won’t run dry in classes or tests
Naturally, your Parents want you to start the new term on a par with anyone else in your class. That’s why they’ll want you to back your brains with a Pen like the revolutionary new Parker Vacumatic.
Its Scratch-proof Point of Platinum and 14-K Gold writes like a breeze because it’s tipped with jewel-smooth Osmiridium, twice as costly as ordinary iridium.
And the Parker Vacumatic won’t let you down by running dry unexpectedly in classes or quizzes.
pious reserve of ink to begin with that you need fill it only 3 or 4 times from one term to the next.
Go to any good pen counter today and try this pedigreed Beauty of laminated Pearl and Jet—a wholly exclusive and original Style. And look for the smart ARROW clip. This identifies the genuine and distinguishes the owner.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
Makers of Parker Quink, the new pencleaning writing ink. 15c, 25c and up.
TELEVISION
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FATHER STEINER, PROVINCIAL
(Continued from Page 3) at Notre Dame. Father Steiner was formerly assistant provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation for the United States.
Members of Father Steiner’s provincial council include Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., who will also teach at the University; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who will also serve as assistant superior at Notre Dame; Brother William, C.S.C., also serving as supervisor of Brothers’ schools; and Brother Chrysostom, C.S.C., who will be in charge of the accounting office at Notre Dame.
At the University the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was reappointed as vice-president to serve as a member of the local council. Brother Albinus, C.S.C., was named University treasurer, and Brother Ewald, C.S.C., was named assistant treasurer. Brother Albinus replaces Brother Engelbert, C.S.C., whom illness has confined to the infimary for the past several months.
The Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C., was named prefect of religion at the University.
Rev. John Farley, for many years rector of Sorin Hall, has been transferred to the Community Infirmaiy.
Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C., was named purchasing agent and supervisor of maintenance at the University. Brother Constantine, C.S.C., former purchasing agent, becomes steward at the University of Portland, Portland, Ore.
Among the new priests assigned to the University this year are the following:
Rev. James Gallagan, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph Fiedler, C.S.C., who will also be assistant superior at Holy Cross Seminary and a member of the local council; Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., Rev. Charles A. Lee, C.S.C., Rev. John M. Dupuis, C.S.C., Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C., and Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
❖
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 17)
ular downfield blocker. He is everything that both a captain and a Notre Dame guard should be.”
Jim’s ex-roommate and pal, George O’Neil, cuts in with: “Mac is an aesthete— he prefers Bernie Cummins’ music and Connie Barlau’s vocals; Walter Donaldson writes his favorite music, and John McCormack sings it; but he thinks Stephen C. Foster was pretty good, too, at composing melody.”
Mac admits that he never dated the same “gel” more than three times and that "... I won’t marry for 15 years.”
“’Happy Birthday tomorrow, Mac!”
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
A Match for Any Man!
Arrow makes it easy for you to select ties, handkerchiefs, and shirts that team up in perfect accord. See the new Esquire Arrow features as well as the many Arrow whites and fancies in our fall showing.
Arrow Shirts are Mitoga-shaped and Sanforized-Sbrunk.
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana

SEPTEMBER 23, 1938
23
"Post" Photographer
Mr. Ivan Dmitri of the staff of the Saturday Evening Post spent yesterday on the campus, making color pictures for illustration of the article, “No Quarter for Quarterbacks,” by Elmer Layden and-D. C. Grant, which will appear in the Nov. 26 issue of the magazine.
Mr. Dmitri is one of the foremost color photographers in the country, having made many of the color photographs which appeared on the cover of the Post in the past months. A notable feature of his work is the fact that he uses a small Leica camera, and 35 mm. film, sometimes taking as many as 300 or 400 pictures for one assignment. In this way he gets a wide variety of shots. The ones se
BACK TO THE GRIM looking grand!
We’ve timed your arrival on campus •with everything that’s new in shirts. Stripes and checks you’ve never seen before—colors that are quiet—new collar models—all tailored with the Arrow touch — all streamlined Mitoga fit and Sanforized Shrunk. Auction off your die-hard Arrows and get a load of new ones. $2 to $5.
Arrow ties to harmonize $1. and $1.50
ARROW SHIRTS .
lected for use are then “blown up,” and the result is what you see in your Post.
News-Week Offer
On Monday, Sept. 26, McCall Corporation will pass out samples of News-Week.
News Week is an essential presentation of the previous week’s events. It is noted for its high degree of unbiasedness and for its accuracy in presenting facts clearly. It is commonly used as an aid in the formal studies of Commerce, Economics, History, Politics and Sociology or for personal use.
The special students’ offers are, one semester, 20 weeks at $1.00; two semesters, 40 weeks at $2.00; one year, 52 weeks at $2.25.

GOLF, TENNIS SEASONS
(Continued from Page 16) this annual highlight of intercollegiate galf, although only six players were eligible to participate.. Besides Capt. Sheehan and Donahue, Notre Dame was represented by Walt Hagen, Jr., Ed Wrape, Charley Bennett, Ed McCabe, and Ed Mannebach.
In finishing sixth the Irish used traditional Notre Dame methods. At the end of the first day they were ninth in the running. Then on the following day they played heads up golf to move up to sixth position and remain there. In previous years it will be recalled that the Irish always rallied to come from far back in the line to a high position.
Donahue and Sheehan met and played each other in the first round with Donahue defeating the Irish captan one up. Then Stanley Holditch of George Tech defeated Donahue 2 and 1 in the second round.
Stanford hung up a score of 601 with North Carolina and Oklahoma each scoring 609. Louisiana State had a score of 615 while Georgetown had 617.
Wichita Works Out
The University of Wichita football team en route to West Point where it will play the Army tomorrow, worked out on Cartier Field yesterday afternoon as guests of the University. Wichita is coached by Al J. “Bud” Gebert, a member of Rockne’s 1929 National Champions. As second string quarterback of that famous team he understudied All - American Frank Carideo, and has as running mates “Marchy” Schwartz, “Bucky” O’Connor, and “Moon” Mullins.
Football — the savage plunk of well kicked hides
Skinned knuckles, bruises, aching, elbowed sides.
The chill-numbed fingertips, sprained sivollen thumbs
(And all the time the “beating of press drums”).
“If it’s Musical — We have if'
MACK’S
MUSIC BOX
228 North Michigan South Bend, Ind.
Popular Standard Sheet Music. Records, Orchestrations, Band, and String Instruments, Drums, and Accessories.
>1
and more smokers every day find in Chesterfield’s refreshing mildness and better taste just what they want in a cigarette.
- It takes good things tp make a good
Eddie Dooley Football Highlights ■Every Thursday aud Saturday 52 LeddiugN. B. C. Steiiru
Paul Whiteman Every Weduesday Eveuiug George	Gracie
Burns	Allen
Every Friday Eveuiug AU C. B. S. Statieus



c^^-.withMORE pleasure j Tobacco Co.	formillioris
product. That’s why we use the best ingredients a cigarette can have ~ —mild,ripe tobaccos and pure _ cigarettepaper—to make Chester-Afield the cigarette that smokers say is milder and. better-tasting.