If you’ve been complaining about campus publications, now’s your chance to make them better. If you want to gain writing experience and see your words in print, it’s time to step forward. If you can take photos, manage a computer system, or draw graphics and cartoons, we’d like to meet you. If you want to work for Scholastic next year (and the remainder of this one), mark this date and location:
March 26
Montgoinery Theater
(On the first flow of TaTortune)
IBw©^©©© ^fh© mM© ft© w©rlk @8 ^©lhi©[l^^© ©[^©cjiUd]
O Even if you presently write or take photos for the magazine, you still need to come to this meeting.
/ If you have already applied for a position at Scholastic, please come and talk to us: Some 1991-92 editorial board positions are not yet filled, and many section editors have not yet selected assistant editors. If you are interested in any of these paid positions, you need to come to this meeting.
•'Working at other campus publications does not automatically disqualify you from working at Scholastic.
■A All majors and years are encouraged to come. If you've asked to work for us before, and were never contacted, we apologize and ask that you attend this meeting.
In other words, this is the big one: Get a leg up on next year's freshmen and join Scholastic now.
® If you want to work at Scholastic, we need to know about it. If for some reason you can't make this meeting but are still interested, call 239-7569 before March 27 and leave your name and number.
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Nick Spangler
COVER 10 Foodsales Reviews Which dorms satisfy the munchies?
Cover photo by Paul Webb
ENTERTAINMENT 7
Music
Dinosaur Jr. Motorhead
8 Movies
The Doors
SPORTS 18
Bookstore Hysteria
The annual Notre Dame rite of spring heats up
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor's Notes
4
On Other Campuses
5
Week In Distortion
6
Behavior Modification
12
Coming Distractions
24
Final Word
MARCH 21, 1991
SCHOLASTIC
NOIRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 18
March 21, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Oras Moriturus
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger
ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during exammat ion and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and prin led at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is S25.00jyear and back issues are available at $1.25 j copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represen I the opinions of the entire editorial boardofScholaslicorofthe University of NotreDame,ilsadministration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
Ch-ch-ch-changes...
Check out the changes in the 1 ist at left: Th is is the first issue of Scholastic produced by the the 1991-92 editorial board.
Another change is this column — formerly this was Scholastic's editorial space, and opinions written here represented the position of the magazine's editorial board. This is now "Editor's Notes" and represents only my own thoughts. Editorials, when they are printed, will run on the page opposite this one.
Also take a look at pages 12 and 13. "Coming Distractions" has been expanded to cover 11 days on two pages. The calendar is printed on the magazine's centerspread so you can pull it out and save it.
' More changes are in the works -- next week, due to Easter break, Scholastic is not published, and the volume after that is Sarcastic, our humor issue (more on that Jater). The next regular issue of the magazine will be distributed April 11, and we'll be using the extra time between now and then to plan for the future.
Your Input Please
If you have compliments, comments or complaints about the magazine, I’d like to hear them. Call me at 239-7569 with suggestions for future issues, news tips and story ideas.
Better yet, write a "letter to the editor." The letters policy is printed in tiny type at the bottom of this page. If you have a comment on an article or column, send it in.
If you have something to sa/ about a campus controversy or an issue affecting Notre Dame students, write a "Final Word." This one-page column runs on the last page of every Scholastic, and it's the reader's chance to speak to the campus community. Talk to Mike Owen, departments editor, if you'd like to get in the final word.
Work for Scholastic/Sarcastic
Check the inside front cover for details on Scholastic's spring organizational meeting. All majors and years arc cncourgacd to attend.
Our annual April Fool's issue is fast approaching - Editor in chief emeritus Mike Wieber is taking his last bow in this issue - take a look at the ad on page 23 for more information on writing for Sarcastic.
About this Issue
This week we present our biennial foodsalcs review. Staffers visited all 25 dorms to find Notre Dame's best place for late-night snacking.	.
We look some precautions: no critic was assigned his or her own dorm, and the foodsales employees weren't told they're being reviewed; at least not until the food, atmosphere and service were evaluated.
This year our writers faced asbestos, frostbite and spoiled food on their culinary quest for the holy grail of the finest in foodsales. One slight disclaimer: some of the foodsales were'out of some items because the reviews were conducted shortly before and after spring break.
Scholastic evaluated foodsales in 1975, but since the 1986-87 school year, we've reviewed them every two years. In 1986-87 we gave five stars to Stanford and Zahm, while in 1988-89 Keenan and Zahm got that ranking. What happened this year? Will Zahm "three-peat" with another five-star rating? How does your dorm stack up? Where's the best (and worst) dorm food? The article begins on page 10. Why not find out yourself?
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must-be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department, All letters must besigned. Nameswill bewiihheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the Ians of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfilting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space. Scholastic cannot print alt letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic laFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
Ticket Prices ~ ND/SMC Students: $10.00 ~ Public: $14.00
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY AT THESE LOCATIONS:
LaFortune Box Office St. Mary's O'Laughlin Track's Records (at information Desk) Auditorium Box Office 1931 Edison Road
Stanford Gives New Meaning to Alternative Scholarships
Call Stanford what you will, butdon’tcall itunoriginal. According to the Stanford Daily, a gay couple has established a $200,000 scholarship fund specifically for gay and lesbian students at Stanford University and two other Bay area colleges. Stanford denies that it is discriminating against heterosexual students by allowing the scholarship to be offered. In a related story at a well ; known Midwestern school, an $87 scholarship is in the works for Irish Catholic Pre-Mcds from the Chicago suburbs named Michael who like Billy Joel and order more than half of their wardrobe from J.Crew. So far the scholarship has been ruled “too general” as statistics suggest 2,032 students already qualify.
Killer Kitties in KC
Stay far away from Kansas City! According to the Daily Kansan, a man was working on a car in a repair shop when his cat shot him in the foot. Actually, the little furbag knocked the weapon off of a workbench, thus discharging a bullet. “Trigger,” as the tabby is known, offered the alibi at a press conference following massive surgery. In a heated response to the injury, the man immediately placed kilty in thcnearcstviceand proceeded lodismember her. The story further emphasizes the urgent need in this country for a National Feline Elimination policy so these lazy, moody, annoying little creatures don’t damage another auto-mechanic’s foot.
Southwest Missouri Gets a Crime Column
A ruling in federal court last week upheld a 1974 decision that a privacy-protection law should not keep colleges from publishing information about student-related crime accord ing to The Chron icle of Higher Eductation. Traci Bauer, editor of SWMU’s newspaper, brought the suit after the school refused to offer campus crime statistics. Bauer said, “It was my responsibility to get the information to students.” The paper now runs a “See Your Friends in Print” column of various campus crimes which include assaults, burglaries, and obscenely high poofy hairdos.
I Miss Mommy
Students at Graceland College in Iowa couldn’t be happier with the requirement of living on-campus for freshman and sophomore years according to the National On-Campus Report. Graceland operates on a 26 year-old “House System” where upperclassmen may move off-campus yet most do not choose to do so. One student defended the system by stating “At least we don’t have Frats!” The report neglects to mention that 72 percent of Graceland’s students end up living with their mothers for at least 15 years after graduation and that a rehab center is in the works for those who “can’t leave the nest.”
Pressure Mounts in Florida
Academic competitiveness has reached an aH-time high in the state of Florida as the Board of Regents has decided to allow a public university to be built in the Fort Myers area. The decision has some officials at theUniversity of Miami thinking (right!). Enrollment at the southern mecca of intelligence could decline if the Fort Myers school offers better versions of popular Cosmetology, Auto Theft, or Literacy majors.	□
by Michael Owen
4
SCHOLASTIC
NO PARTICULAR REASON
Hopefully this doesn't happen every time these guys have a couple beers...
I sat in a smoke filled dorm room with me friend Fred. We were chaining Marlboro Lights and drinking Meister Bran from large glass mugs stolen from Macri’s. Tchaikovsky’s First pounded angrily over the rain pelting window. After about three beers I get moody and philosophical. I was well into my sixth.
“Fred,” I said.
“Yeah,” he answered.
“What are you doing this weekend?” Fred thought for a moment.
“Nothing,” he replied. .
“How about a four state killing spree?”
A gust of cold Indiana wind blew the rain against the window fiercely. Fred weighed the merit of my suggestion in his mind.
... “Sure,” he said and took a pull on his beer. “Where?”
“I hadn’t really thought about it,” I told him.
We drank in silence for a moment.
“Guns or knives?” Fred asked.
“What?”	’
“Guns or knives?” he enunciated so I would, have no trouble. I stared at the wall and considered it.	.
“I hadn’t really thought about it,” I told him. “Axes maybe?”.
Fred grew angry and stood up. “Any schmuck can go on a four state killing spree with axes,” he said. “Hell, it’s almost cliche!. We’re supposed to be bright young college men. We can come up with something with a. little more class than axes... honestly!” and with a huff he sat back down. After a moment’s pause he asked again, “Guns or knives?”
“Well,” I said, “let’s weigh this rationally. On the one hand guns are fast and clean but loud and we’ll never get silencers. There’s fingerprints and ballistics and we’d have to get rid of them. Also, where arc we going to get guns?”
“Your roommate’s in ROTC, isn’t he?” Fred suggested.
“Sure,”, ! said, “if you want to use an M-16 with a grenade launcher.” Fred thought about this for a second.
“We could have fun with the grenade launcher,” he said.
I told him to shut up and we drank in silence once again. Then I continued, “On the other hand knives are messy but easy to conceal. We’ll need a good sharp knife anyway to cutup the bodies. Oh yeah, we’ll need a shovel. Make a note.”
“Noted,” he said. We both drank.
“So it’s knives?” I asked.
“Sounds good,” Fred replied then got up to change the disc. “Petty
MARCH 21, 1991
or Dylan?” he asked.
“Petty,” I said. “What else?”
“We’ll need a car. Where will we get a car?”
“I hadn’t really thought about it,” I told him.	•
“Your roommate has a car. Do you know where he leaves his keys?”
“Yup,” I said.
“Okay, that’s no problem. We’ll leave at six a.m.”
“Set your alarm.” I said.
Our words hung in the air with the smoke from our cigarettes. The rain continued to fall on the roof of our dorm like drums in thejungle. The natives were restless. A moment passed.
“Where?” Fred asked again.
“I hadn’t really thought about it,” I told him.
“We’ve established that,” he said. “Think about it.” I did.
“Well,” I said, “if we’re going to do it right it has to end in a dramatic run for the border with the federales in hot pursuit. So I guess if we’re going to make a run for the border there ought to be a border to run for. Do you prefer Canada or Mexico?”
“Oh, not Mexico,” Fred said.
“Alright; Canada then. Pick a spot in the North.”
We talked it over for a while and decided that New England would be good. The states were small and there were lots of people up there; that would make our job easier. We’d start in Vermont and make a loop up into Maine. That would hit four states. Our killing spree was taking shape. We knew when and where and how we were going to go about it We had thought of how to get rid of the bodies and how to get to Canada without getting caught. It was a plan and a half, we were feeling pretty good about ourselves having thought the whole thing out so well. But then, when we were at the peak of our demented brilliance, the pinnacle of post-adolescent homicial tendency, Fred asked the question that destroyed it all.
“Don?” he began. .
“Yeah?” I replied.
“Why do we want to do this?”
The trance exploded like a beer bubble breaching the surface.
“I hadn’t really thought about it,” I told him.	□
Don Modica is a sophomore Vermin who wants everyone to know that everything he writes actually happened to him personally and that writers never, ever make anything up.
5
IMMATURE TROLLS AND TIME LIMITS ON BRAS
Dear Mr. Manners:
A purely hypothetical question: Would it be rude to write you a letter.saying that you stink most egregiously in comparison to Dr. Head? Just wondering.
The Trolls, freshmen, Grace
Ah, another case of pansies too unsure of themselves to sign a letter with their own names. If you’re going to insult me, you can at least follow proper etiquette and insult me like a man—let me know who you are, you little freshmen losers. And what kind of a nickname is “The Trolls?” You must be really hard up for a social life to think up a name like that. Of course, you do live in Grace, so I suppose this is a reasonably accurate assumption. The only thing that impresses me in any way whatsoever about your little insult is the fact that you managed to use a five-dollar word like “egregiously” properly.
I know that I’m not quite as popular as Dr. Head, but then again, I didn’twantthis job. JustbecauseDr. Head mysteriously diappeared after referring to certain members of the administration as Nazis, I suddenly have to come out of retirement, where I was perfectly content to sit and ponder matters of etiquette, to answer the vain and uncouth questions of you dingleberry Notre Dame students. No, I am not omnipotent like Dr. Head, and I know that I’m not nearly as witty. I’m terribly sorry.
In answer to your question, though, yes, it is rude of you to insult me, but if you must insult me, I wish you would do it properly and let me know who you are.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have a serious problem—being a rather buxom young woman, I am forced to wear 18-hour support brassieres more often than I would like. My major problem is not that the fact that these brassieres are horribly uncomfortable, or unattractive, but that I often face major embarassment when the 18-hour time limit runs out and I am suddenly faced with, shall I say, a major loss
of support. What I am to do when this terribly embarassing trauma happens?
Kathleen, senior, Walsh
Wow. Being a man myself, I really have no idea what kind of trauma you must have when your support bra gives out, and I’m doing everything in my power to hold back from making lewd sexist comments, but being the nice and proper individual that l am, I’ll restrain myself.
After consulting with the female members of our fine staff here at Scholastic, I have been advised to tell you that you should first leave the room,and then seek an adequate supplyof duct tape. You should then proceed to use the duct tape to replace your lost support. Be advised that this may be somewhat painful to remove, but it should do the trick. Honestly, I have no idea if this will really work since I am not a woman myself, but I’ll take the word of my co-workers on this one.
I might also prescribe some preventive medicine — maybe you should check your watch a little more often to avoid this type of incident in the future. I know you don’t want to look like you have a “Cinderella complex,” always rushing out of places at the zero hour, but I think it might be advisable to avoid major embarassment. Sources tell me that materials engineers arc hard at work trying to develop a material which will hold up for more than 18 hours and give you a little bit of extra time. Good luck to them, and to you as well, Kathleen.
Remember, you can send your etiquette inquiries to Mr. Manners at the following address:
Mr. Manners, c/o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail Letters should be written in any color ink except red (I don’t like red, and I’d prefer not to disclose the reason why), or laser-printed (I will take dot-matrix but you’d best have a dam good excuse for using it.) Be sure to use gender-inclusive language where relevant, and don’t swear. Enclose your letter in a standard, business-sized envelope and make sure that you leave a little space unglued at the top so that I can easily use my letter opener (if you think this is some kind of sexual thing, stop it now).
□
SCHOLASTIC
6
New releases from Dinosaur Jr. and Motorhead are plenty loud and grungy
Dinosaur Jr. Green Mind
In the twisted and torrid world of alternative music, one of the rages sweeping the alternative conclaves of white suburbia these days is loud, grungy rock that mixes the power of seventies hard rock and metal with the attitudes of punk. Amidst the wreckage of Soundgarden wanna-bes and long-haired dirtbags arises the psychedelic wall of noise manifested in Dinosaur Jr. Their music can best be described as an acid trip of the ears, and their newest release, Green Mind, continues as a prime example of this legacy.
Green Mind, the fourth LP and major label debut by this Amherst, Mass, band, is the latest in a series of lineup changes and breakup rumors dating back to their last EP, Just Like Heaven. The new lineup includes the original J. Mascis on guitar and vocals, but splits the drumming duties between Dinosaur Jr. co-founder Murph and Jay Speigel of the Velvet Monkeys. Don Fleming, also of the Velvet Monkeys, plays bass and some guitars. The album is produced by Mascis and engineered by studio veterans Sean Slade and Paul Kolderie.
Green Mind rockets off with
its first track, “The Wagon,” a free-spirited psychedelic romp that screams “college radio hit.” ' The single was originally featured on a limited-edition 7” released by Seattle’s Sup Pop records this summer.
The rest of the album drifts through a blend of music that seems pleasantly smooth and wickedly caucophonous. “Puke and Cry,” “Water,” and “Thumb” are almost relaxing— quite unusual for Dinosaur Jr. “Puke and Cry” calms down the listener from the previous track, and the entices him/her into a distorted swirl of aural hallucinogens.
“How’d You Pin That One on Me” is probably the only song on the album that can be categorized as classic Dinosaur Jr. Il’s loud, warbling, distorted and rolls around one’s brain ata near-frantic pace. This song assures the listener that these guys won’t be playing stadiums with The Cure anytime soon.
The two best cuts on Green Mind are “Blowing It” and “I Live for that Day,” and they’re actually part of one song. By changing the guitar riff and vocal pitch a bit, Mascis and Co. are able to blend the two songs into a single, catchy masterpiece. This song (or songs, however one looks at it) peppers the usual Dinosaur Jr. psychedelic guitar jams with a bouncy stop-and-go rhythm. Basically, IT ROCKS (see Motdrhead).
Dinosaur Jr. is back with a vengenance, and their new album, Green Mind, attests to this. If loud, drug-induced psychedelia is what you’reafter, but you’d rather be caught lying combat bools instead of tie
dyes, then check out Dinosaur Jr. Besides, they’ve covered a Cure song, a Byrds song, and “Show Me the Way” by Peter Frampton. All within four years.______________________

Motorhead 1916
Motorhead. The word alone sends all those wholesome Billy Joel fans scurrying for their parents’ protective arms. In the great panthenon of heavy metal, no band evokes as much emotion as these veteran rockers. The College Music Journal went as far as to call for Motorhead’s Lemmy Kilmeister’s “mug up on Mt. Rushmore, or since he’s British, superimposed on the face of Big Ben.” Let’s face it: Motorhead is in a class by themselves when it comes to heavy metal. They arc the meanest, baddest and all-around most vicious of the metalheads, and to steal from our President, they kick more ass than anybody. 1916, the new Motorhead LP, finalizes Motdrhead’s glorious place in rock and roll history.
Ian “Lemmy” Kilmeister (bass/vocals), Phil “Wizzo” Campbell (guitar), Mick “Wiirzel” Burston (guitar) and Phil“Philthy Animal” Taylorall combine for a spectacular effort on 1916. The album is produced by veteran Ed Stasium, who has worked with the Ramones and
Living Color in the past. Their sound is more diversified, and — gulp — mature, but it is total Motorhead mania all the way through.
1916 launches out with “The One to Sing the Blues,” a nerve-racking blitzkreig of thunderous drums and guitar. In “I’m So Bad (Baby I Don’t Care),” Lemmy gives a twisted attempt at a bluesy-metal blend, still carrying his angst-strained voice. “Make My Day” and “Shut You Down” continue the persistent Motdrhead assault, waging a furious guitar attack that is guaranteed to melt eardrums. The album continues with “Ramones,” a fitting tribute to the most persistent punk band of all lime, and it will have you “Gabba-hcying” and banging your head all at the same time.
The most puzzling but eerily haunting track on 1916 is the title track. Motdrhcad actually resorts to cellos, and we sec a more sensitive side of Lemmy (I never knew he had one!). In “1916,” Lemmy creates a bizarre atmosphere that is more reminiscent of Pink Floyd’s The Wall than MotOrhcad’s classic, “Ace of Spades.”
Like Dinosaur Jr., Motorhead ROCKS. But harder. Faster. Louder. Meaner. Long live Lemmy. Long live Molbrhcad.
After a long hiatus, JeffJotz is back to irritate and entertain. He still is Music Director at WVFI and says "Censorship is Unamerican.” He hopes that lan Mitchell, his beloved Editor in Chief, keeps that in mind for the upcoming year.
MARCH 21, 1991
7
Morrison
Sex. Drugs. Music. Dionysius. Nietzsche. Art. Death... all of these things
blend together in a mindboggling psychedelic spiral in The Doors, Oliver Stone’s cinematic portrait of Jim Morrison and his band, in such a way that viewers are left to sort put for themselves what the reality of the Doors was. Thismoviedoesnotclearup anything about the man or the myth of Jim Morrison, but only provides the viewer with
enough authentic details and streams of incidents that the reality of what happened is made entirely a matter of perspective.
“I’m into chaos,” says Jim Morrison (or maybe that was Oliver Stone?), and chaos is
everything surrounding the Doors, and an especially psychedelic sequence in which the entire band trips on peyote in the desert provides a launching point for the real bulk of the film. All throughout The Doors, Stone
The Doors (played by Kyle Mac Lachlan, Vai Kilmer, Frank Whaley and Kevin
Dillon.)
definitely the method which Stone has chosen to address his topic. The Doors moves
in a stream-of-consciousness fashion from thebeginnings of the band, as Ray Manzarek (played by Kyle MacLachlan) and Morrison (in a truly exceptional performance by Vai Kilmer) meet on Venice Beach, up until the disintegration of the Doors and Morrison’s death in a Paris hotel. Trippy cinematography accentuates the drugged-out feel of
makes no smooth connections between the hedonistic frenzies of the band offstage and the equally Dionysian orgies onstage. Transitions are made by means of psychedelic dissolves, abrupt blackouts and flashes in and out of consciousness. In filming, Stone has spared no detail in his attempt to produce an authentic replication of the times, with everything from costumes and sets down to the most minute props making this psychedelic illusion seem more real.
Likewise, the characters are shown in such a way that everyone seems larger than life. The obvious focus of the film is Morrison,
and Vai Kilmer plays Morrison so convincingly that the film grows far beyond the somewhat underdone script. Kilmer even did his own vocals in the live sequences, giving them an added intesily and authenticity that helps make the film even more con
vincing. Kilmer’s supporting actors are outstanding as well, with band members Ray Manzarek (Kyle MacLachlan), Robby
Krieger (Frank Whaley) and John Densmore (Kevin Dillon) providing a balance for the character of Morrison which sometimes opposes him and sometimes supports him. Morrison’s two girlfriends also cause an interesting dynamic which isn’t exactly clear-cut between good and evil or life and death, but instead blurs these tensions and
contributes even more to Morrison’s decline. The naive and optimistic Pamela Courson (played by Meg Ryan, but a bit too much like some of her other characters) tries to save Jim from himself but eventually gets drawn into the same downward spiral. Morrison’s other girlfriend, Patricia Kcnne-aly (Kathleen Quinlan) is a drug-gorged, cultist freak who eggs him on in all of his debauchery but in the end shows just as much concern for him as does Meg Ryan’s character.	•
The main source of momentum for the film is the band’s music, which is presented most often .in extended, enthralling live sequences ranging from the band’s earliest gigs in Los Angeles to the concert in Miami at which Morrison was arrested for public' indecency. Kilmer’s performance really shines here, and the addition of his own vocals tQ.thejnusic definitely makes these scenes work better than any similar sequences in recent memory. These arc the
SCHOLASTIC
Billy Idol (believe It or not) portrays a roadie In
scenes which lend themselves to the creation of the Morrison myth, the Dionysian symbol of excess, the Lizard King, for which Morrsion has become known. Stone does
not pull these scenes off without seeming just as pretentious as what the Doors were trying to do with their music, though, and it is this pretentiousness which may be the movie’s single biggest flaw. Frequent references to Nietzsche and The Bacchae are probably wasted on most filmgoers, and the final scene, in which Morrison’s grave is shown in the midst of artists like Chopin, Balzac and Rossini, tries to bring in too much intellectuality to something which is almost entirely devoid of intellect, namely rock and roll. This same attempt to combine art and poetry with rock and roll is the reason that the Doors were simultaneously wonderful and awful — when it worked, it was incredible, but when it didn’t (which was more often that not), it was just a bunch of garbage masquerading as art. What Stone has done by placing his film in this same category is to make it all the more authentic at the risk of ending up as maudlin sentimen
tality and pretentious, overwrought crap. What the ultimate verdict will be is hard to tell — this movie, like Stone’s other movies Salvador and Platoon, doesn’t let itself be understood immediately. It’s very ironic that in one of the early sequences of the movie, Stone appears as himself as a professor at the UCLA film school
critiques
who
Morrison’s filmmaking as “very pretentious, very non-linear” but ends up using the same techniques himself.
What Stone has not done, however, is to intensify the myths which already surround Jim Morrison. Morrison is not portrayed as a god or The Doors. as a superhuman figure,
although there are some shameless and blatant Christ images used in various parts of the film. Instead, the major image which Stone wants the viewer to keep of Morrison is that of the shaman,
the tribal healer who, as Morrsion explains, “has a vision and heals the whole tribe.” The tribe is the tribe of young rock and roll
mer s performance as
orrison is truly exceptional, ana especially so
In live scenes like this one.
fans who were drawn to Morrison’s music— he becomes the shaman who heals them through his music. He is not a superhuman figure, merely a human with extraordinary talent, and a human who is painfully aware of his own mortality, with death providing another of the movie’s major themes. Morrison’s major temptation is always to die, and to give himself a release — the serene look on his face at the end is certainly no mistake on the part of the director. Death was always the biggest “temptation” to Morrison, and this movie leaves no doubt that this, and not anonymity or obscurity, was his way of dealing with fame and “success.”
In the end, there is no clear cut reality about Jim Morrison and the situation which lead to his death and the decline of the Doors. Slone gives no special bias in his film, and he only takes the approach of providing as much detail and as much intesnity as possible in' trying to play Morrison’s biographer. There is no question of authenticity in the film, but only a question of reality, and that question is thankfully left to the individual viewer. Whether Morrison was an artist or not, a god or a human being will be interpreted differently by each viewer. My advice is to see this movie only once and don’t try to force an understanding right away. Let the intensity die off and then sort out the perspectives which Stone has provided... there is no right
answer.
□
by Dave Holsinger
MARCH 21, 1991
9
Which Dorms Satisfy the Munchies
ALUMNI: We were not able to review Alumni’s foodsales because it was closed due to the asbestos removal in their basement	.
BADIN: AlthoughBadinmaybconeofthe smaller dorms on campus, their foodsales provides a variety of snacks for everyone. We were impressed by the variety of drinks offered: various sodas, six types of juices, flavored mineral water, Sundance Sparklers, and Evian water. Instead of pizza, they offered pizza bagels. They were plenty cheesy, but lacking in flavor. They also offered nachos with three different sauces, soft pretzels, bagels, and breadsticks. The breadsticks were great, but the pretzels and cheese sauce had to be microwaved on your own. Other interesting selections included Pop Tarts, instant soup, licorice and Fun Dip candy, and ramen noodles. The foodsales location, near a television lounge, provided entertainment while customers waited. The friendly help also added to the atmosphere. Seasonal specialties included Easter Reese’s peanut butler cups. We gave them three and one-half stars.
BREEN-PHILLIPS: Breen-Phillips, although sporting a reputation as “The Bay of Pigs,” has no foodsales. Instead, they have a tailor shop fully equipped to mend, hem and alter. Maybe an attempt to lose their reputation as pigs, maybe an attempt to have the best fitting clothes on campus, Breen-Phillips has clearly shifted its priorities.
10
CARROLL: Carrol) Hall is broke. Its hall government bought two hundred Haunted House T-Shirts al $8.50 apiece and they only sold a hundred. So while Carroll is eating the t-shirts, the hall has no money to even begin a foodsales. Carroll did haveafood sales last year but that lost money too. Maybe next year Carroll will recover from its financial, woes and start a foodsales. But for now, hungry Vermin will have to resort to Domino’s and Tuesday two dollar subs from Vic’s.
CAVANAUGH: After spending a few minutes winding through the maze that is Cavanaugh Hall, we found our way down to Black Matt’s Cafe (named for former rector Father Matthew Miceli—don’t ask us why). At $4.25 for a large pizza, Cavanaugh is right in line with average prices for pizza. The quality is about the same—cheap sausage, but crispy crust and tasty sauce to save the pie. They also offer a variety of other toppings including pepperoni, onions, mushrooms and green peppers.
Cavanaugh offers standard prices on soda ($0.50 for a 12 ounce can), and the same price on hot dogs and corn dogs (the latter a bit of a rarity to find al any food sales). Nachos cost a bit ($1.50 per plate), but have a wide choice of available toppings— jalepenoes, refried beans, and salsa—for $0.25 each but they might be worth a try. Most foodsales do not even offer a choice of loppings.
Finally, Cavanaugh offers a relaxing environment with lots of room, comfortable chairs, and nice tables to at least let you relax while you wail for your food.
With the excepiion of a fire alarm and a long (20 minute) wail, we found our overall experience at Black Malt’s to be pleasing. If you need a change of pace or your food sales is rotten, give it a look. We gave it 3-1/2 stars.
DILLON: In the November 3,1988issueof Scholastic it was reported that Dillon’s foodsales was terminated for that year due to conflicts between the management and the rector. We think that due to conflicts between the management and our stomachs, it should once again be terminated.
As far as my stomach is concerned, the food was below par... way below par. The Nachos ($1.00) were soggy and the cheese was Checz Whiz. They offered no loppings such as chili or peppers to spice il up. The Pizza Muffin ($0.50) was about as good as pizza muffins get. Their pizza did not live up to expectations although at least they threw out the firstpizza that had spoiled meat. The crust was pretty good but that is all. The sausage had little to no flavor but this was made up by the sauce which had a memorably bad taste.
Their sitting area had several couches where we could relax and a big-screen T.V. but don’t look up. If you do, you will seethe guts of the building hanging over your head including many brown splalchcs on the while paint. Off in the comer, however, there is a pool table, but two sides of the table arc almost completely blocked by the walls so that you cannot shoot. Also there are only 10 balls and one slick minus the lip. Not exactly the greatest conditions under which to attempt to play a gamc...trusl me we tried.
SCHOLASTIC
Overall, wc were not pleased with Dillon’s foodsales. Maybe it is too harsh to suggest that they be tenninated...but then again maybe NOT. Wc generously give it 1/2 of a
star,
FARLEY: Farley Hall’s close proximity to NDH could explain why itsloodsalcs are so disappointing. For the third and fourth floor residents, the walk to foodsales is considerably longer than that to the dining hall! Not only did we spend fifteen minutes waiting outside the door for any sign of human life to let us in, but once we finally got there, it was closed! (This was around 9:30 P.M.) We were fortunate enough however, to scan a menu. It included the standard fare: soda juice, candy bars, Little Debbie snacks, pretzels, granola bars and Combos. Aside from the meagre menu, dingy basement atmosphere and the odd hours, they do offer frozen cookie dough, ready to cat from the wrapper and brownie and cake mixes. (Maybe Farley should be called “The Bay of Pigs!”) Farley has its good points, but for the most part, it was very disappointing. We give it one star. .
P.S. We returned to sample the pizza and discovered that it was themicrowavc/toaster sort. Not bad, but a little soggy.
FISHER: The green wave on the wall of Fisher’s foodsales invites one to a clean and comfortable dining area- great for a chat or a relaxing study break. Their menu has a variety of items to satisfy anyone’s appetite lost at the dining hall. The prices were fair fora hamburger or chesseburgcr, calzone,or even breadsticks. They do have credit slips to charge your order if you forget to bring your wallet. We tried the pizza bagels, priced at $2.00. Though slightly undercooked, it was better than average with thick soft egg bagels. Also on hand were racks of small munchies- chips, brownies and candy- and an average selection of soft drinks. We compromised with an overall rating of three and a half stars. One reviewer was a bit unnerved by the shiftless guy behind the counter.
FLA NNER: The name is Club Flanner, and there is more to this name than one might think. The word “Club” reminds us of a
private country club, one with outrageous membership fees as well as sky high costs forgrccnsfecs, food, etc. In the pricy sense, Flanner is a club. No, it does not have any
membership fees, but all of their menu
items, and there is quite a variety, are a bit pricy for a foodsalcs.
If you and your roommate are up late studying and you get the desire to have a large cheese and sausage pizza you’d better get the 1 im it extended on your credit card or get a loan because it will cost over $7.00. The pizza was pretty good, loaded with lots of cheese, and a good crust. Its main downfall was its cheap sausage and extremely high price. But if you have the time (about 30 minutes) and the money it might be worth your while.
They also have a wide variety of sodas, both in bottles and on tap, for one to choose from, a 16 oz. bottle of soda sells for $0.75 which is an average price. They have a good selection of fruit juices but these sell for $0.95 each which is a bit much for the quantity you get. They also sell nachos ($1.85), Gatorade, and sub sandwiches (turkey, ham, or roast beef for between $2.50 and$2.75...cheese is extra of course).
The atmosphere and the hours are great. They are open from 7:45 - 12:00. There is
lost of room with couches, tables, and a bar.	0Ver to Sarge’s. Five stars.
One could play ping-pong or just sit back and watch the free movies they have playing. But if you ask me, they are not HOWARD: Two years ago Howards :	con ton page 14
free. The cost is just hidden in the prices of the food. Overall weenjoycd “Club” Flanner but could not afford to join so we gave it three stars.
GRACE: Surge’s is not a food sales, it’s more of a gamcroom/rcstaurant/groccry store. Never has the basement of a college dorm been put to better use than Sarge’s. Upon entering this establishment, one enters a spacious room with several pool tables (free of charge and the cue tips are actually intact), pinball and video machines, a big-screen television, and hardwood tables and benches good for eating, studying, or just hanging out. A large neon sign, “Surges”, greets customers to its grocery store and counter. The grocery store contains all the basic items found in the store at LaFortunc, such as chips, pop, cereal, and ding-dongs. At the counter, anyone can order a hot dog, burrito, sub, or pizza. Go for the pizza. Sarge’s piles on the cheese and toppings generously. It is as delicious as any found in a restaurant and a large at $4.25 is guaranteed to satisfy any appetite. For food and environment, every single student on campus, including South Quaders, should experience Grace foodsales at least once in their time at Notre Dame. Even Vermin from Carroll Hall should trek
MARCH21, 1991
Thursday
Coming Distractions
11 day calendar
Make sure your event gets listed -- send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call: 239-7569. The next Coming Distractions calendar will appear in the April 11 issue.
Sunday March 24 Palm Sunday Musical: Starlight Express. JACC, 1:30 & 7 pm., S13 stud, tickets. Music:
Voices of Faith Concert. Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m., SI. Notre Dame/Harvard Glee Club Vespers Concert, Sacred Heart, 7:15 p.m., free.
Monday
March 25
Dinner Theater: Same Time Next Year. Senior Bar, 6:30 p.m., S6 Film: "How Filmmakers Depict Women" series continues with My Brilliant Career.
Cushing, 7:30 pm. discussion follows. S2.50.
Tuesday________________ March 26
Snite Movies: Aguirre: The Wrath of God. 7:00 p.m. The Gospel According to St. Matthew. 9:45 p.m., each $2.
Scholastic Meeting. Montgomery Theater, 7:30 p.m.
’’Try to Top it" dining hall contest: most creative and nutritous topping of cereal wins their choice of breakfast meals named after them. We kid you not. 7:00-9:15 a.m.
Wednesday
March 27
Music: Notre Dame Orchestra Winter Concert. Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m., free. Snite Movies: The 400 Blows. 7:00 p.m.
Chicago Maternity Center Story . 9:45 p.m.. each S2.
"Try to Top it:" day two of this gala event in both dining halls. All entrants have a chance to win door prizes.
March 21	Marct
Movies: The Wall.	Musk: G]
Cushing, 8 & 10:30 p.m.,	Concert '
S2. ,	Hall, 8:15
White Palace. Carroll/	Movies; J
SMC, 9 & 11:15 p.m., S2	Little Lad
Music: Duo recital with	& 10:30 p
Violinist Carolyn Plummer	Jesus ofa
and cellist Karen	7:15 & 9j
Buranskas. Washington	Mass for
Hall, 8 p.m., free.	Heart,
	Musical:
	Express.'
	S13 stud.
March 28	Marc
Holy Thursday	Good
Holy Thursday Liturgy.	Celebrai
Sacred Heart, 5 p.m.	Lord's E
High School Basketball:	Heart, 3
South Bend Tribune Sunburst All-Star Game, JACC, S5.
Easter Break
(Begins 4 p.m. Until
Monday, April 1.)
March 31
Easter Sunday
Easter Buffet. South Dining Hall, 1-4 p.m.
Easter Break
(Continued)
For More Information Call
On Campus	Touch Four	Movie T
LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	Call 239-2500, then press:	100 Cent
Student Union Board: 239-7757	ext. 2101 for movie information	Scottsdal
Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext. 2114 for the music line	Town &
News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110	ext. 2112 for concert information	Universil
JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354	ext. 2117 for theatre information	Universil
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD	ext. 2525 for a list of college events	
Birthdays of Famous Dead Guys
March 21 - Johann Sebastian Bach was bom in 1685 at Eisenach, Germany. Ahh ... Bach ! Celebrate the birth of the master by attending one of the many musical events on campus: Faculty recitals, Glee club performances, Voices of Faith concerts and the Notre Dame Orchestra round out the week.
March 23 -- Schulyer Colfax was bom in 1823 in New York. Who was he, you ask? ("Who was he?") Good question. He was the seventeenth vice president of the United States. All right, so he’s not famous. With a name like Schulyer, he had to be good.
March 26 - Robert Frost was bom in 1874 in San Francisco. He’s dead. He’s a poet. He’s a dead poet. Speaking of which, Robin Williams taught that literature has one great purpose: "to woo women." So gel your ID, head for the library and ask for "Frost." '
Mi 15! wo wil eve sta Ob
, fan
12
SCHOLASTIC
Saturday
122 lee Club Spring Washington p.m., Free. 1 Men and a y. Cushing. 8 i.m., S2. fonlreal. Snite, 45 p.m., $2. Peace, Sacred 5 p.m. Starlight JACC, 8 p.m., • tickets.	March 23 St. Patrick’s Festivities: see list at right. Movies: 3 Men and a Little Lady. Cushing. 8 &. 10:30 p.m., $2. Jesus of Montreal. Snite, 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., $2. Musical: Starlight Express. JACC, 2 & 8 p.m., $13 stud, tickets. Windy City Shuttle: 9:30 a.m., $10. Mr. Stanford Contest, Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m., $2.
h29 Friday tion of the *assion. Sacred p.m.	March 30 Holy Saturday Paschal Vigil. Sacred Heart, 9 p.m. NCAA Final Four Men's Basketball semifinal round on CBS from Indianapolis. SUB Chicago Trip: See A Chorus Line, stay overnight at the Hilton, S35.		
	
Saturday
,	'	■/ C.;./ . ", --Xi'-'-
...Patrick's
Festivities
SWdaWJO
Free mugs to; first 650 peb
One-toriIceCreaniSundaeat2:00p.m
Band Schedule
heatres
er Cinema I & II: 259-0414
e Theatre: 291-4583
Country Theatre: 259-9090
ly Park Cinema East: 277-7336
ty Park Cinema West: 277-0441
XyZAFFAIRX. GoodQuestion Chisel •ice?nin^ Tartar Giin " IWWSO:
1:30 p.m
3:00p.m 3:45 p.m. ^:$0p.m
Iritasedfrairi;bahOa^
trch 30 -- Rene Descartes was bom in al LaHaye, Totiraine, France. His rks of philosophy have been playing h the minds of PLS and Philo majors Jr since. He is famous for the tement "I think, therefore I am." viously, it was pretty easy to become nous 400 years ago.
For tickets:
Tickets for most on-campus events are available at the door or at the LaFortune Information Desk.
Tickets to Starlight Express are sold at the gate 10 JACC ticket office from 10 a.m. - 5 p.m., or call 284-9190.
Tickets to Mr. Stanford are sold by Stanford residents.
13
MARCH 21, 1991
foodsales was nonexistent, with just a stationary exercise bike parked in front of the counter. Well, the bike is still there (though around the comer), needed even more to work off the calories from their reopening which is dominated by a wide-range of candy. All the popular sweets are available at prices a little better than the vending machines. We passed on the candy but went for a couple of their cookies- huge things with your choice of M & M, peanut butter (with peanut chunks), and chocolate chips. At $0.50 each, they were a good hot, chewy, concoction when microwaved. Unfortunately, on our review night, they were outof bagel pizzas (priced al $2.00) but we tried their nachos. It was a typical plate with mozzarella cheese priced al $0.90. We also got a special side cup of the spicy “B ucno” cheese for an extra $0.15. The rest bf their menu was small with few drink choices, though large pretzels were also available. They do havean account system, so if you’re short on cash you can pay up later. The atmosphere was fair with their adjoining lounge crammed with old desks and chairs. We gave them two stars.
KEENAN: North Dining Hall got you down? Try Keenan’s foodsales just across the grass. They’ve got a great inviting dining area. It’s clean and comfortable with a wide-screen TV to catch the movie of the night while munching down their freshpopped popcorn. It comes in a generous bag, a great deal at $0.25 a bag. Their pizza is average (the crust nor the cheese didn’t especially thrill us) with a 14" going for $4.50. You can also buy it by the slice, which is good if you can’t swallow a whole pie or have no one to share it with. Also offered arc pizza bagels at a great price of $0.75 for two halves or $0.50 for one. They’ve got a fair selection of munchies, including nachos with salsa. Dairy products are also offered for health conscious folks (milk, yogurt, and cream cheese- for the bagels). We were disappointed we didn’t gel a chance to try the buffalo wings — they arc so popular, Keenan was sold out. Overall, we gave them three and half stars.
KNOTT: Like all the female mod quad dorms, Knott’s food sales is assigned a tiny room near the hall lounge. The menu is typical—pizza, pizza bagles, soft pretzels (a
bargin at .25 cents) and nachos. There’s also a pretty good selection of soda, chips and cookies. The pizza wasn’t available for our review, but while thechoiceof toppings was good (mushrooms, green peppers, pepperoni and sausage), there was no pizza oven—any pizza Knott served would be strictly the frozen variety. All in all agood— not spectacular—food sales: fine if you live in the dorm, but definitely not worth a special visit We give them two and 1/2 stars.
LEWIS: Lewis, the dorm without a quad, is practically without a food sales, to boot. They’re convieniently open on Sunday both in the afternoon before dinner, and after dinner. Oddly enough, when we asked one of the residents where the food salse was
located, she informed us that it was located in a 24-hour parietal zone—no boys allowed. They offer a sparse menu including candy, soda, nachos and bagels. Although THERE IS NO PIZZA, they do offer a soggy pizza bagle substitute. Bagles also come with cream cheese, a definite bonus. Lewis food sales is very small and seems to be struggling to eke out a profit. It was shut down for several weeks in the beginning of the semester but seems to be making an attempt at a comeback. The Lewis Chickens get star points for effort, but they just can’t compare with the competition. We give them one star.
LYONS: Why wait ‘till 1.2:30 A.M. to appease your munchies when you can have an afternoon snack al Lyons’ foodsales? Allhough ihe menu is fairly conventional, much of the mcdiocraty can be overlooked due io the fact that Lyons is open for lunch— ycl another excuse lo aviod the dining hall. Although the pizza is the garden variety muffin sort, it has tasty sauce and is the perfect size for one person. M uch of the food items arc do-it-yourself: nachos, with a choice of spicy or mild cheese; soft pretzels; and microwave burritos. Other menu items include cereal, shakes, malts and icc cream. The workers are exceptionally friendly and because of the afternoon hours, the mini-restaurant becomes the place to meet and greet between classes. Lyons’ also offers juice, soda, granola bars and candy. A
definite highlight is the gourmet hot chocolate in mint and mocha flavors. The adjoining kilchen/silling room (where the microwave is located for the nachos, etc.) is large enough to accomodate all of your closest friends while also providing a relaxing place to cal.. The outstanding feature of Lyons’ food sales is its convenient hours. The more you can aviod the dining hall, the belter. Anothcrplus: thcpricesare extremely reasonable so even though you might cat there for lunch and dinner, the pinch to your pocket won’t be loo bad. We gave it four stars.
14
SCHOLASTIC
MORRISSEY: If you’re on South Quad and in the mood for a great pizza, Morrissey is the place to go. After first ending in the mailroom looking for the basement stairs, we followed our noses and found the place. The search was worth it. Their 12" pizza goes for $4.00 and a small for $2.50, with toppings $0.25 each. We tried a pepperoni and sausage combo. The sign on their door announced their new crust was gelling rave reviews. We agreed. The thick crust and spicy sauce pleased our palates. Another plus is their ‘zas arc made to order and can be phoned in. We also sampled their pizza calzone, another great cheesy concoction. Not in mood for “Italian” fast fare, Morrissey’s got a big selection with hot dogs, chili dogs, and sub’s. We really loved their 16 oz. sodas in the old-fashioned returnable bottles ($0.75)- not just Pcpsis and Cokes, but also Dr. Pepper, Mountain Dew and 7up. Though the dining area is roomy with a radio providing some entertainment, it’s noloverly clean (but their first floor lounge has com fy chairs and sofas, if a bit dark). Morrissey’s foodsalcs is open late and weekends with daily bargain specials-check the door as you walk in. We give them four stars.
PANGBORN: Pangbom foodsalcs was burglarized during spring break, but high demand still kept foodsales open when classes resumed. The foodsales is located in the basement with a pool table and chairs and tables for dining relaxation. Although the crust was a bit thin, the pizza was satisfying and it was ready immediately after order. The pretzels are a deal, three for a dollar. The nachos on the other hand were disappointing. Although the quantity was impressive, the cheese sause was cold and the chips were a bit stale, like someone left the chip bag open over spring break. The variety could improve also. Only about five different food items could be purchased. Pangborn foodsalcs is open only for an hour and a half but that’s probably good for them. With the break-in and Pangborn residents reportedly owing foodsalcs mucho dinero, Pangbom needs to save all the money they can in labor costs. Three and a half stars.
PASQUERILLAEAST: Wewcrcnotablc to review P.E.’s foodsalcs because they
were taking an extended spring break when we were doing our reviews. Sorry P.E. maybe next time!
PASQUERILLA WEST: Due to lack of patronage, terrible hours, and a negative cash flow P.W.’s foodsales sadly closed their doors for the last time just before spring break. We hope that before our next review some creative entrepreneurs will reopen it and be able to make it work.
ST. ED’S: We showed up at Santo Edwardo’s about forty minutes after our pizza was ready. But even after reheating, it slill lasted great. The crust is excellent and die pizza contains Cheddar cheese which is different, but it still works. A variety of toppings can be added such as sausage, pepperonni, or double sausage and double ‘roni (even pineapple for you tropical fruit pizza lopping fans.) Impressive is the variety of drinks here. These include pop, juice, milkshakes, orange julius, and “spittle”, all under the heading of “frosty libations”. The milkshakes arc outstanding. They arc extremely thick and you get a lot more for your money than you would at Azar’s. The service is friendly, they will even unscrew tough caps on the pop bottles for you. There is nowhere to sit at St. Edwardo’s but there is always the hall’s clean and parietal-free TV lounge. After
one of the reviewers let our cover slip as we were heading out, we were chased by the owner chastizing us for not getting our ‘za hot and fresh, nol ordering the medium size with their new thick crust, and not ordering their nachos (we heard its got a special hoi salsa). We’ll leave that io you. Overall we gave them four stars.
SIEGFRIED: Siegfried foodsalcs suffers from lack of a kitchen. Most of the goodies found here, such as cracker jacks, trail mix,-or pop-tarts, are packaged. There are other standard foodsalcs items such nachos, soft pretzels, and bagels. Bagels come in several forms such as plain, cream cheese, sandwich, and pizza. The pizza bagel is nothing exciting, just Ragu and shredded cheese smothered on top and thrown in the microwave. At $1.25, my stomach and wallet felt deprived. There are two treats in Ihc foodsalcs, though. First is the hot chocolate at only .25 cents a cup, the drink comes through on cold days. Second is Aunt Beth’s cookies, which come in peanut , butler, chocolate chip, or M&M. These morsels arc a treat. Siegfried foodsalcs isn’t bad, it’s just that the effort is minimal. We must admit though, it is the only place on campus we’ve seen where we can buy Clearly Canadian. Two stars.
SORIN: Father Sorin would be proud of the noble gents who slave over the hot oven in
MARCH 21, 1991
15
jl 'l
H Ji
•;!
I
the foodsalcs of his namesake dorm, ranging from $1.75 to $7.25). With a good Although the location is poor and the seating lopping selection they can be made to order
area nonexistent, the variety of menu items and the quality of the food makes this foodsales well worth the extra walk.
As an appetizer, one might try ihe breadsticks ($1.50) with pizza sauce or nacho cheese sauce (our personal favoriic). They warmed in the oven while you wail so that they are crispy on the outside and soft and warm oh the inside.
Next we would recommend the nachos. They are either served with nacho cheese sauce or for a completely new taste (and a total of $2.00) try pizza nachos. Covered with mozzarella cheese, pizza sauce and either pepperoni or sausage, they are a creative and new twist to nachos—a must-try.
Sodas arc reasonable ($0.60) and a wide variety is available. The pizza ($4.00) is good (for foodsales). The crust and sausage leave something to be desired (like a real crust and real sausage), but the sauce is spicy and the cheese is plentiful.
Because of their innovations in breadsticks and nachos, and their pizza, we give Sorin a whopping 4-1/2 stars.
STANFORD: Your Mother’s What? provides ample space with the poicntial for a good dining area but has only a pool tablc-with no cues. But don’t let that deter you. Stanford offers belter than average pizza in a range of 4 sizes from 7" to 16" (prices
and called in from your room. For something a little different, you’ve got your pick from an organized menu offering burritos, chimichangas, nachos, egg rolls, and “bun length” hot dogs. Despite the sparse atmosphere, Your Mother’s What? is
neat and clean and open until 12:30 (though pizza-making slops al midnight). We gave them three and a half stars.
WALSH: Walsh has the best popcorn on campus. Il’s better than Orville’s and it comes in. salled/unsaltcd, buttered/ unbuttered. Served in brown paper bags, the portions are very generous—our lips and fingers were shrivelled by the time we finished. If your appelitecalls for more than popcorn, (which is not only delicious, but cheap) Walsh also serves enormous helpings of hand-packed ice cream. (Cookies and Cream was the “flavor of the night” when we were there.) Even though the ice cream and the popcorn arc outstanding, the pizza is average at best. It is the do-ii-yourself-in-lhc-microwavc kind, and a little soggy. The nachos arc just O.K., too Although you arc served an
cnourmous mound of delicious chips, the cheese is pretty goopy and in need of reheating. Anothcrplus: Walsh has a health food menu including pickles, raisins, wheat crackers and granola bars. The basement of ihis dorm also wins points for atmosphere.
16
SCHOLASTIC
Walls painted in primary colors and curtains in red gingham create a cozy atmosphere for eating or for social izing. Walsh gets awards for wonderful snacks and congenial atmosphere. We give it four and 1/2 stars.
ZAHM: No doubt. If you’re in the mood for pizza, Zahm’s foodsales should be your destination. At S4.50 for a whole sausage or S0.85 a slice (1/6 of a pizza), not only is this pizza a good deal, but it is also the most tasty—with crisp crust, zesty sauce, flavorful (not the usual dog food style) sausage, and a large helping of mozzarella
cheese on top. Also, unless you arrive at a rare “off’ time, pizza is ready and waiting so. you can geta sliceand get right back to work.
Other than the pizza, this is your average foodsales. They have a fairly good selection of chips, candy, and soda ($0.60 for a 16 ounce bottle), and serve Nachos for SI .00 a plate (we think they were topped with CheezWhiz). There is ample room to sit while you eat, although the decor is less than extravagant.
Zahm foodsalcs, nonetheless, is worth a try. This, in fact, is the only place we liked so much we returned on our own later on during the week. The pizza gets four or five stars, but overall we give it four stars. .
Reviewed by Kristine DeGange, Patti Doyle, Mari Okuda, Jim Fitzgerald, Mike Wieber, Tony Porcelli, Paul Webb, Ian Mitchell, KateManuel
MABGH 21, 1991
17
Scholastic Photo Files
As the weather warms and "Domers" emerge from winter hibernation, Bookstore Basketball, the annual Notre Dame rite of spring, heats up
By Jon Paul Potts
Editor's Note: This article is a revised and edited version of a paper the author turned in for Dr. Barbara Allen in an American studies department class in folklore.
Bookstore.
For some, this is merely a building on the South Quad of the Notre Dame campus that charges exorbitant prices for textbooks. For others, however, the very word “Book
18
store” conjures up images of slamdunks and jumpshots, and dreams of glory on the Stepan basketball courts. What started as an add-on to the events of An Tostal, the annual spring festival at Notre Dame, has blossomed into the biggest basketball tournament anywhere in the world and a regular cultural phenomenon. What function does it serve here at Notre Dame? And why is it the whole student body suddenly goes basket
ball crazy for a period of five or six weeks every spring?
The first ever Bookstore Basketball tour-, nament was played in the spring of 1972, making 199l’s version BookstoreXX. The brainchild of Fritz Hoefer and Vince Me-coni, Bookstore has grown from the original 53 teams to an astounding 703 teams last spring. Hoefer and Meconi were student commissioners of An Tostal for 1971-1972
‘	SCHOLASTIC
and wanted to create a new event that would appeal to the more athletic students on campus, over and above the fun, but frivolous events such as the Keg Toss and Jello Wrestling that characterized most of the events of Notre Dame’s annual celebration of spring.
Dubbed “The Bookstore Hysteria Tournament” and governed by the first commissioner, Mcconi, Bookstore adopted its rules from the un-
ders tood rules of pickup basketball which are prevalent on so many courts in America, especially at sports-crazy Notre Dame. “Iron man fives” would compete— that is, no substitutions for the whole game. If there was an injury, the team played on with only four players. The games were to be played , in all weather, rain or even snow (which often falls in the early spring in the tropical paradise of South Bend), to a score of 21, win by two baskets. All baskets were worth one point and players called their own fouls. All of these rules are common on any court where pickup basketball is played, Meconi merely formalized the rules and adopted them to his tournament.
The first champion of Bookstore was a team who dubbed themselves “TheFamily.” They were four varsity basketball players, John Shumate, Dwight Clay, Gary Brokaw and Pete Crotty and Cliff Brown, the football quarterback. This squad so dominated the tournament, however, that Meconi cre
* Peter Loftus
Coming soon to a Bookstore court near you, "5 Guys Who Aren’t Afraid to Wear Tutus while Playing Basketball," a group of young men obviously in touch with their true selves (and their basketball ability!).
ated rules the next year limiting the number of varsity basketball players to one per team and total varsity athletes to three per team. The last major rule change occurred in 1979 when the NCAA ruled that varsity basketball players could not participate in Bookstore because it violated an obscure rule governing off-season tournament play by NCAA basketball players. Now those se
lect few who do play varsity hoops must wait until after their last season, senior year, to participate in this event. And so, since Bookstore VII, the rules have not changed, only the faces and ever-growing number of teams.
One of the most endearing aspects of Bookstore is the wonderfully wacky and descriptive names which the students come up with each year. The names reflect inside jokes or ideas of the people of Notre Dame. For instance, a fair amount of the names reflect the common gripes by Notre Dame men aboutNotre Dame women. Teams such
as “Meatless Cheeseburgers, ND Girls, and Three Other Slimy Things” and “Beer, Broads and Bookstore: Two Good Reasons to Go to Notre Dame,” team names from last spring, may not be theclassiestof names, but a person on the inside can get a chuckle or grimace in disgust (depending on their gender). The first team name, in fact, combines two problems at Notre Dame—dining hall
food, and male/female relations.
John Austin, a senior this year, played for “Monsters: Disciples of the Death Ball,” in Bookstore XIIX when he was a sophomore. The team had an odd-looking sphere which they kept in their room and they named their team after it, developing a full-blown legend to explain the “Death Ball.”
“It seems that the death ball originally came from a volcano. It’s been dated back to pre-man by scientists,” explained the philosophy major. “They hypothesize that it came from a certain volcano in Egypt... no India. It was a piece of volcanic rock that got
MARCH 21, 1991
19
i'; in
p	thrown into the air so high that when it came
jp down it got polished. And inside of it, there ■ J developed this toxic gas from the volcano, pi And thus, it appears to be a ball.
"Somehow, through the ages, a deadly-looking face has been inscribed on it. And pi	it’s spiritually inhabit	ited; there’s sort of a
■p	demon force that
dwells within it.
J	"So, before each
i;	game- and we played
four- we would ij	huddle together and
1	have a little seance
.	with a star, an upside-
j	down star, in the
middle of us,” he continued. "Then j	we’d roll the Death-
J	B al 1 to the other team,
::	and invariably, the
team would be dis-
-j	traded by this, be-
>	cause they’d look into
the eyes. They’d just p	be distraught for the
• j	rest of the game, and
J	they didn’t know
Pi	why*
p	"The only time
p	that it failed was
P	against "Malicious
Prostitution”(the p	eventual champion).
P	They basically just
P	kicked the #@*% out
?!	of it, and blatantly
j	ignored it’s powers. I
!	don’t even know if
they noticed it, and they beat us 21-5 and p!	brokeoneof the guy’s
d	noses on our team,”
p	he remembered.
"When they ignored ”	the: Death-Ball, we
kinda’ knew that p	something was awry,
!	and from there, it was
ip	all downhill.”
d ; Last year, “Pre-
Pubescent Ectomor-P phic Zygotes” enter-tained the crowd playing their game wearing nothing but 20
shower caps, green safety glasses, rubber gloves and fluorescent green jockey briefs. Then to top it all off, they smeared the remainder of their mostly naked bodies with Crisco Cooking Grease. Obviously high concept! Probably none of them would
appear on campus like that alone, but Bookstore can bring out the best (or the worst!) of Notre Dame’s creative energies.
Mike Connor, a junior, played on a joke team in Bookstore XIX that featured a motley collection of hoopsters.

BookstoreBasketballXX's^
Straight from the home offices in I^Forlunc, Scholastic compiles its top eleven list of the bcslBpok-' ’■ h store team names for 1991: <:?>■.	' ■' ■ P k
(All team names i n vpl y ingthe words "Saddam" or "Digger” have been avoided in thpintcrmof good taste.)
11. Four Students and an American studies major: Since fam an American studies majors, I look
: |	particular offense at this name. When are the students at Noire Dame going to learn that AMST majors
( arejustasintelleclualasallthcengineersandphysicsgeeksoricampus.Infactwcmaybethebrighicst ofall because we chose this grea t major tpbegin with.. Anyhow, thhsc guys belter be good hoopsters,
; J;tiecau^^	■>.. y’ .• ppkk
10. Spicy P, Tasty B> and the three Bimbos: One would have to wonder what is so spicy about "P," why : N(:: this "B" character cdnsidcrsshimself:sp tasty, and why these two obvious studs are playing basketball
''kkk
:9. If/this whs Nin tendo^ we'd kick you r buttp Actually, if this were Ni n tendo and there were this many ■Nttedms id	would |>e the biggest col lection of.losers in the whole'
N; wdrId. C'mon guys, g	Xrbk ■ kXk ' - ( b' kb
S.Vioterit
Siiri,” and that Classic, 7Gqugh it Up.^ i	NV'NY
~7,|QhuckFreeby^^^
:r PppkstoreftitlQ:game;jbut th;e}Br	Collins is (Ihave proof:). kb
; ■■■■/ ■ f;■ p.a-f •.
?5.;Sexuaffrustriatioris rechanneled: TOS name is pretty; sclt'-cxpldnalory, although why choose sport 1 ikenaked lacrosse or sumo wrest!ing. tr?;;:i’N*
y fc'rh.etiye'guys.whb celebrated the Year oftlieWomp^	guys,; you probably were the only
.y d hyg guystwho .cejebratedihef^^^ ^slf^e^ere'anywbrsejjye^
y .thAquestipri.yd'frgotraV^
oo;iift^oubhands?N',y'y;o/?-.'.:;.)N^N;^	kbd-o
: £ Father Sor in, t^
NNtrah jtepulatibn ljas:gbt^ c<^	i.r,y .1;p kk'kb k, N
k”At’dj he best Bookstore team hickname omthe twentieth anniversary of the tournamerit i b kkibStbbkkbXI-;'bb-kb,■ (drumroll.please!) bI?;i:(bbh NFf^ariq^zi£hasagrfeatmdusta^e:.:RoilieFingershad;^
?	hc could go into show business as lite modermday Groucho Marx of the Middlc
/,	isgo&.to s^/aicam
out of this one, you must have no (sense of humor.	'kk kk
By JonPaul Potts
SCHOLASTIC
Mari Okuda
few. Well, we saw little Anita (Anita is a girl who stands all of 4’8”) standing there, and we thought, ‘Now wouldn’t that be funny if she were on a basketball team!”’ laughs Connor. “And we asked her, and she said Okay. And she thought it was funny because she was drunk also.
“So we got together the worst basketball players who’d ever been assembled in the history of man. Little Anita, big Joe (who is 6’3"), me, Jay and Andy! We wanted to go all the way! Seven games for five dollars! ”
These five friends knew that, they weren’t basketball players, but they wanted to participate. Given a few drinks, suddenly they were a team, albeit a motley squad, and they had fun with it. Many of the team names probably developed among friends after a few drinks got the creative juices flowing.
One of the great legends
The University president Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy leads a team into the tournament every year called "All the President's Men."
letic dreams. After all, 80 percent of all the undergraduates earned some type of varsity letter in high school. The student body as a whole is very competitive — whether in the classroom or on the basketball court -- and this great drive to win is evident in Bookstore games. They can get very competitive and some of the best stories people tell revolve around players who took this competitive nature one step loo far. Pat Kelly, a junior, tells of a game which football running back Ricky Wallers played in last spring.
“During one particularly physical Bookstore game last year, the score had been tight. the whole game, and the game was coming to a close,” he remembered. “Ricky Walters went up for a rebound against his opponent, but when his opponent came down with the ball, Watters tried to take a swipe at the ball. He slapped his opponent in the stomach, and
“We were all at Dancer’s party one	which surround Bookstore is that it is a place
night, drinkin’ some brews, and we’d had a for frustrated athletes to play out their ath-
then proceeded to punch him three limes in succession in the stomach and shoulder!
Mari Okuda
Lou Holtz dribbles through the rain in Bookstore XVII.
“His opponent complained to the ref, but nothing happened,” explained Kelly. “The rest of the game was wild, and Watters team lost -and the crowd cheered!”
It would seem that lost in this action are the women, but' they assert themselves in the toumamen. There is a separate tournament for the women but, oftentimes, women field teams in the men’s tournament. In attempting to break into a pretty tight-knit male activity, women also express themselves through their team names. “Five Lewis Girls with Attitude Problems,” “Amazons from Hell” and “Five PW Girls Who Like to Play with Boys,” (names from Bookstore XIX) are creative reproaches to names such as those mentioned earlier which men use to disparage the women.
After all these stories and anecdotes, one would have to
MARCH 21, 1991
21
wonder, why all the fuss about a basketball tournament? “Domers” are a select group. Notre Dame is a relatively small school when you consider some of the massive public institutions in the Midwest which
surround it. YetNotrc Dame hasa higher national profile than any of these. Why? Because of athletics. The football and basketball programs reflect a sports crazy student body that finds an almost cathartic release through the many athletic programs on campus — from interhall, full-contact football to the grandaddy of them all, the cherished Bookstore Basketball.
Domers participate in and watch sports constantly, it is vital to a true Notre Dame existence. Even the university president, Father Edward “Monk” Malloy participates annually in Bookstore as captain of “All the President’s Men.”
Another important value reflected in Bookstore is the great Notre Dame sense of community. Anyone affiliated with the school, from undergrads and dining hall workers, to 40-year old professors can participate. Yet, outsiders are excluded and the rules are very strict about this participation. A long-time participant and employee of the university recalls a humorous story from his Bookstore days.
“The funniest thing that ever happened to me in Bookstore happened a few years ago," recalled the person who preferred
not to be named. “I was playing with a friend of mine and his three sons, who could play, but were all still in high school. We played one game and won, and then we played our second game.
“The team was a team of five Asians, maybe Japanese or Chinese, and as the game
was going on they were running around and talking in some Oriental language. We couldn’t understand anything they were saying, and they were actually winning at halftime, something like 11-10. ... Now
these guys were all about this tall (about 5’6")!
“In the second half we got serious and
Mari Okuda
If you are a participant, an avid supporter of your favorite team, or just curious, check out the action and participate in a great Notre Dame tradition, Bookstore XX.
started playing some ball, and we ended up winning. Well, one of the kids went up to one of these Asian guys after the game and started running his mouth, saying, you know, *We beat you guys, you can’t even speak English! We’re not even Notre Dame student’s, we’re in high school!' He thought
that these guys didn’t understand any English!
“They looked at him, then they looked at each other and started to laugh because they knew what the deal was — the deal was we
were an il legal team,” he said. “So they went running over to the officials, and, sure enough, we had to forfeit. I couldn’t believe it!”
The outside has taken notice of Notre Dame’s little basketball tournament In 1981, the national sports cable network ESPN approached the tournament commissioner about televising the final game to a national audience. The commissioner Rob Simari turned this offer down. To accommodate their network schedule, ESPN requested that the championship be played on Tuesday night, instead of the customary final Sunday afternoon of An Tostal. The commissioner, in a bold move, rejected the offer on the grounds that it was not in the true spirit of Bookstore which frowns on reschcdul ing of games for any reason. To change the date of the championship for a national audience would be unthinkable. "Domers" were playing their tournament, and they would not change their plans for a paltry national television appearance.
Bookstore Basketball is a vital part of what Notre Dame is all about If you are a freshman, or if you’ve lived under a rock during your springs here at Notre Dame, check out the action. As the tournament hurtles toward the exciting championship game on April 28, take a walk out to Stepan, Lyons or the Bookstore courts and participate in or just watch the Notre Dame tradition that is Bookstore.	□
22
SCHOLASTIC
So, you think you’re pretty funny, eh? Gotta gripe to get off your chest? Want to make enemies on campus really, really fast? Then contribute to this year’s Sarcastic issue. Ideas NOW being accepted for this journalistic bastion of aggression relief! Call Mike Wieber for further info’ at 239-7569 or 283-1663. Want to remain anonymous? Slide ideas under the door of 303 LaFortune.
STUDENT CLUBS and ORGANIZATIONS
Scholastic is again sending out a summer issue to all the new/ incoming freshmen.
Interested in advertising in this issue? Contact Dave Chmiel at 239-7569 or stop by Scholastic's office, 303 LaFortune. Office hours are 2-5, Monday-Friday.
nBudgeteer;
K^^dtbr innBa
$25«
SING
LE
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)

Next Year’s
GSU Agenda

Graduate Student Union President Kurt Mills shares his plans for the future
%$$$?.
First and foremost, Vice-President Karen Slawner and I would like to express our gratitude to the graduate student body for electing us to serve you next year. We hope we are able to live up to the confidence expressed in our abilities. There are several issues which we perceive as being important to graduate students as well as to the University as a whole which we plan to work on during our tenure in office.
First, the University is working towards developing Notre Dame as a major research university, and this includes developing the graduate school. Thus, we see this as a very opportune time to discuss and get action on several issues directly related to graduate academic life. This includes, first, the institution of a minimum level for all stipends throughout the University. The administration has made a commitment to this and we hope to see this implemented by the end of our term. Another concern for graduate students is that of summer funding. Many other universities have such funding, either in the form of fellowships or assistantships, and we feel that in order to be a competitive graduate institution, as well as to ensure that graduate students can make speedy progress toward their degrees, summer funding is vital. We are especially interested in seeing the opportunities for students to engage in research for professors over the summer increase.
In addition, an area where there is great potential for improvementis in support for professional development. To a large degree, this includes training for teaching. The administration has been very supportive this year of the GSU’s Professional Development Seminar, and we will work with them to develop a more institutionalized program of training, either in the form of departmental programs or a university teaching center, or both. This would help not only graduate students, but undergraduates as well who are taught by graduate students. We would also like to see more support for other professional development activities such as conference attendance.
Several other non-academic issues will be on the agenda for the next year. First, we will be making recommendations to the administration regarding changes in Du Lac which we feel are necessary to recognize the fact that graduate students have sole responsibility for their lives and are able to make intelligent, moral decisions regarding their personal lives on their own without University interference. Second, the issue of daycare is a perennial problem, and we hope to sec some sort of daycare system worked out. This might be in the form of a University-sponsored daycare center or a cooperative of students and faculty. Third, therehas been a need felt on the part of many women at the University for a center where women
can go for medical and other advice, and find a nonthreatening atmosphere for the discussion of their concerns. Most major colleges and universities have some sort of women’s center, and we will further explore the possibility of establishing one on campus.
Finally, while there have been many activities sponsored by the GSU Social Committee, there is still a need for a permanent social space for graduate students. There is a real possibility that Wilson Commons will be turned over to the GSU for this purpose. The GSU has sought University support to renovate Wilson Commons, possibly including a snack shop along the lines of what the Law School has, and make it a more permanent place where graduate students can gather. Over the next year we will work to implement this proposal.
We feel that there are many possibilities for graduate students to participate in the ongoing development of their overall graduate experience. Our agenda shows the possibilities we see for responding to graduate student needs. At the same time, we will be open to other suggestions from students and hope to include more graduate students in thedccision-makingprocess. Onceagain, we thank the graduate students for their expression of support and look forward to a fruitful year.	□
By Graduate Student Union President Kurt Mills
24
SCHOLASTIC
j-Whitt • CokAl’Cock.- Bi
esso
Qv.aU
PIP I
Retailed - Spook* Spade -Whttey- Kraut -Nigg^-Kike-Hymi "Desi anddumb-Famot • CYieer - Uotro • Dyke- Gey- plainer • Gripped- SaMn^v’-‘D'': - ' ^ liT,r'- ~ Looney
Wetback:-
Jigaboo • Wai5^
Pickaway •■
Chink • DD-' Spic-Tmep..
Kick • YeW Jap - LK-fer. Pago •
SAX YOU
COULDLOOK
Limey - Cong^^'" Frog' - Grea&n'" Yank- ^rcL'^
Camel Joiji'
Dinner Theater presented by The Alpha-Omega Players
Featuring an Evening of Fun, Wit, and Comedy!
Same ‘Time, y&Ct ^ar
Monday, March 25 Alumni-Senior Club
Tickets: $6 at LaFortune
Dinner: 6:30 pm
Show: 8:00 pm
The dinner will be catered by Spaghetti Works.
STUDENT UNION BOARD