j
SOME THINGS YOU _ ;Z
SHOULD KNOW ABOUT
AV I ATI w
BET
TRAINING
Here, in question and answer form, are some facts on the U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet program. They cover details you may have been
wondering about —and will be useful to you if you want to learn to fly and begin a career in one of today’s fastest-moving fields.
!• Who is eligible for appointment to the Cadets?
You, if you’re physically fit, single, between 20 and 26^4 years old, and have completed at least one-half the requirements for a college degree from an ‘ accredited institution — or pass an equivalent examination.
2o How long does the training last — and what does it cover?
serve Corps, and assigned to pilot duty with the U. S. Air Force at a starting monthly salary of $336 (including flight pay). You will serve on active duty for three years unless sooner relieved, and be eligible for $500 a year bonus for each year of active duty as a Reserve Officer. If you're interested in a Regular Air Force commission, you’ll be given a chance to qualify.
What are the civilian career opportunities?
That’s one you can answer for yourself by taking into consideration these facts: Contrary to what some people think, aviation is not overcrowded — for pilots or anyone else. No field is expanding more rapidly or offering more profitable openings to qualified men. After Aviation Cadet training, you can compete on an equal basis with any flier in the world.
You receive approximately 52 weeks’ training — worth $35,000 — in primary, basic and advanced flying, along with other related courses designed to give you the finest background in your specialty.
What's the story on duty after graduation?
After successful completion of the course, you will be commissioned a Second Lieutenant, Officers Rc-
These are only a few of the advantages. Why not stop in today at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station and get all the details?
I. S. Army and I. S. Air Force Recruiting Service
Soy SSob cUierhile
TOP OF THE WEEK
“Pete” Ashbaugh: “I thought you said your girl’s legs were without equal.”
TOO MANY COMPLIMENTS
Congratulations rolled in from all directions. Everyone wanted to well-wish the Irish eleven before and after their Tussle with the Army last Saturday. Celebrities from Hollywood, New York, Washington and Chicago penned off telegrams to the lads. Telephone
calls came through at all times day and night. John was from a sound sleep to hear Sinatra say, “Wish I could see action Saturday, John.” Later
of the roused Frank you in Toots
Shor called from New York. Wailed he: “Good luck, Jawnny.” Slowly, unassuming, number-calling John crawled back into his Sorin sack; mumbled he: “Why don’t they call during working hours?”
INSIDE ON OUTSIDE READING
Next Monday the history department will grill N. D. students to find out whether or not they read the required books. It is hard to tell what they will find out. We must give the department credit, though. There is nothing as stim-Jalating as a good book (the Ages of Hate, Enterprise, Materialism, and Jack-son excluded). I might have gone through life without knowing that Andy Jackson’s mother-in-law died at the age of 51. Forbid even the thought of it. But I can never thank the history department enough for introducing outside reading. No longer do I have to worry about vacations, week ends and holidays. I can always trip over to the library and lightly open a copy of Mediaeval Feudal
ism. Since Father McAvoy first introduced these dust-gathering books, there has been a great change in local economic activity. Travel on the South Shore has declined 65 per cent; local cinemas are so vacant they may be forced to introduce bank nights; Wal green’s
IF YOU LIKE SCOTCH
and who doesn’t?
Medium weight, warm and rugged, these smartly styled sports shirts come in 12 different dazzling plaids.
looks just like any drug store on week -ends; and St. Mary’s girls have taken up knitting. I can’t wait to get started on my copy of the Age of Hate.
THE LAST WORD
The Notre Dame speech department cleared its throat last week. It had concluded a survey. Said the survey: “the ten most unpleasant words in the English language are: flatulent, phlegmatic, cacophony, gripe, plutocrat, jazz, sap, crunch, plump and treachery.”
To this list, “The Week” would like to add the word “flunk.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Ziggy Czarobski: “No, I said they were without parallel!”
PLAID, LAD
Button-down flap pockets and smooth fitting Arrow collars on every shirt!
Have a look at Arrow’s bonny new assortment of TARTAN SPORTS SHIRTS.
POST-GAME DANCES
Students attending the Northwestern game are invited to attend a dance sponsored by the Off-Campus Women's Organization of Northwestern University in Room 300, Scott Hall, beginning at 4:30 tomorrow.
A victory dance, sponsored by the Student Council, will be held at the Drill Hall here, tomorrow evening beginning at 8:30.
See your favorite Arrow dealer for Arrow sports shirts
P. S. Send for your FREE copy of "The What, When & Wear of Men’s Clothing" today—a handy guide for men who like to dress wisely and well. Address: College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES » --------------------------------------► UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
3
LETTERS
WILCOX BE PRAISED
Dear Editor-.
This is in answer to Mr. S.A.M. (name withheld) and J. B. McCarthy who last week shook their letter-writing fingers at “Naughty” Joe Wilcox and his “liberal utterings.”
Mr. Wilcox’s crime seems to be that he dares to question the perfection of our rugged, individualistic capitalism. Of course in Pius Xi’s Divini Remptoris we find words like, “. . . under the salary system . . . individual employers are helpless to ensure justice unless . . . they organize institutions the object of which is to PREVENT COMPETITION incompatible with the fair treatment of workers.”
Leo XIII’s words are as relevant today as they were fifty years ago. “... it has come to pass that working men have been given over, isolated and defenseless, to the callousness of employers and the greed of unrestrained competition. The evil has been increased by rapacious usury, which, although more than once less, under a different form but with the condemned by the Church, is neverthe-same guilt, still practiced by avaricious and grasping men. And to this must be added the custom of working by contract, and the concentration of so many branches of trade in the hands of a few individuals, so that a small number of very rich men have been able to lay upon the masses of the poor a yoke little better than slavery itself.”
What little gains labor unions have been able to make are infinitesimal compared to what needs to be done. Male office workers in South Bend are still being hired at $140 a month, the big milk plant in Galien, Mich., pays seventy to ninety cents an hour, and of course the national minimum wage is still a tiny forty cents an hour. Studebaker Corporations with their $1.71 an hour are plenty rare. This latter is possible because of the seller’s market in cars (labor costs are passed on to the purchaser) and the strength of Local No. 5, UAW.
Joe Wilcox’s words are those of an enlightened Christian. If men of his kind had been listened to in the last 100 years we Catholics would not have had the initiative for the cause of social justice taken from us by the Communists.
To timid S.A.M., whoever you are, there are some things you evidently skipped over in the Our Sunday Visitor.
In the Action, Inc. column these words have appeared: On July 6, “Free competition, though good within certain limits, cannot be the guiding principle of the world”; On August 24, “. . . we will find paganism, materialism — under- all the names you can find, Capitalism, Communism—replaced by Christianity.”
Of course if you two gentlemen are going to keep your noses buried in the Chicago Tribune and Pegler’s column you will be in darkness the rest of your days. Their facts may be correct but they don’t have the Truth.
Sincerely,
James Cunningham, Box 117, Notre Dame
That’s telling ’em.—Editor
THANKS DEPT.
Dear Editor:
We wish to thank you sincerely for sending us the Scholastic.
Naturally the boys appreciate the sports articles the most, perhaps the only part they have a common interest with Notre Dame students.
Having spent several years at Notre Dame and with the C.S.C. myself (the early years of 1940) I find all N. D. dope very interesting.
In the October 10 edition, on page 22 in the article “Future N. D. Players Gain Experience Fast” we find Boys Town’s N. D. newcomer, Len Kroll mentioned. We mention this because it hurt our family pride to see Len’s last name misspelled (Croll). But we’re sure it will soon become more familiar to you in use and spelling as time goes on. Our best to you, Len . . .
From the city of little men to the city of big men (how about it, Len), goodbye and thanks much.
BLDG. IV BOYS
L. J. Dreifuerst, Counselor, Boys Town, Nebr.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
Dear Editor:
I would like to take this opportunity to tell you how much I think of your wonderful University.
Since grade school days Notre Dame has been a sort of symbol to me. It has such high standards, as do all colleges, yet it seems Notre Dame lives up to her standards to a higher degree than do most other universities. The name Notre Dame alone means a great deal.
This summer I had the opportunity to see Notre Dame and it was an experience I shall never forget. The beautiful church, the great dome, and the grotto are scenes that will long be remembered.
The football game between Notre Dame and Navy was truly a great one, played by two great teams.
This letter may be a bit unusual, but
then its hard to express in writing all FjL really like to say about Notre Dame, w
In closing I would like to say my only . real disappointment is that I was bora > a girl, and cannot attend Notre Dame . myself.
Dolores Nime,	|
753 Commins St., Akron 7, Ohio
Unfortunately Miss Nime, some folks are not as lucky as you.—Editor
AT LAST HE'S HAPPY
Dear Editor:
My father, who has been a coal miner for the last 35 years, related to me once on a time an unusual fact. He said in effect that it seemed to him in the days before mines were mechanized and mules provided motive power for hauling coal therefrom that the most intractible of. these beasts seemed to be those wit^ bobbed tails. In fact, when a miner was provoked more than usually by the forwardness of any mule, he would begin his string of expletives by saying, “Why you bobtailed, etc.!
The purpose of this letter, however, is not to acquaint Scholastic readers with Pennsylvania folklore. It is rather to compliment the ticket office on its distribution of tickets for the army game to married men. This time instead of two men to handle the distribution, only one was employed. However, by dint of cutting a class and getting there early, I waited in line only two hours instead of four. Orchids should be heaved in tons upon the very capable ticket officers.
Edward Dixon, Box 444, Notre Dame
Scholastic is happy that Mr. Dixon is finally happy.—Editor
&
f
Cavanaugh Concerts
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17
Symphony No. 4......Brahms
Selections from Aida...Verdi Selections from Pagliacci..
............ Leoncavallo
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18
Concerto in A Minor. Symphony Espagnole
Grieg ...Lalo
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19
Swan Lake Ballet.Tschaikowsky Selections from Madame Butterfly ................   Puccini
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21
Concerto in E.......Gershwin
Roumanian Rhapsody   Enesco
All students and faculty are invited to the Noon Hour Concerts in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room from 12:30 to 1:30.
A
•COLLEGE IAIAIE
by JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
PENNSYLVANIA, HERE WE COME
In an editorial entitled “Not Enough Boys,” The Crown, printed by King’s College, decries the “sad occurrence” of a recent after-game dance at which there was a dearth of males, of all things! It seems that girls were invited from several nursing schools and a college, only to be faced with girls, girls, and more girls. For more information concerning admission to King’s College, write Ming’s College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
POEM OF THE WEEK
Study by day could bring you an “A”— H^tudy by night — a campus outright!
Moral:
Use your time wisely . . .
—from FAGGOTS (St. Mary-of-the-Woods)
TB OR NOT TB ...
Two Minneapolis doctors are searching for the unidentified student from the University of Minnesota, who placed the inscription “This is TB,” followed by an arrow and a dot, all in tinfoil, on his chest, before taking an X-ray examination last spring. The doctors merely want to interview the prankster in connection with a national magazine article which they are writing.
P. U!!
Feudin’ and fightin’ again—. Under the eerie light of the full moon a band of conspirators was surprised in an act ^f sabotage a few days ago. It all happened down at Indiana U. The “Cow College” (Purdue) saboteurs were busily painting “P. U.” over the letters “I. U.” on the Student Building, when their enthusiasm attracted several alert P. U., er . . . that is I. U. students. The long arm of the law intervened before they could finish a gorgeous “Purdue,” in yellow letters on the Library steps!
If I’m studying when you come in, wake me up.
—The Spartan
THE PEAR FACTS ...
We were distressed to learn of the recent misfortune of the editor of Southern Cal’s Daily Trojan. It seems that he was sitting in the wrong place at the right time during the Southern Cal-California game and it was his honor to be hit in the eye with a well-aimed pear ^vhile voicing his encouragement to the . trojan gridders. Three other S. C. rooters suffered similar “accidents” during
the contest ... Go west, young man. There they hit you not with pop bottles, not with beer bottles, but with fresh fruit!
BEAR-LY POSSIBLE
According to the Michigan State News, a group of amateur archers were out on a hunting expedition in Wisconsin when they came within sight of what they thought was a baby bear. They fired the arrows only to discover that they were shooting at the small part of a 350-pound monster. A wild chase ensued, neither party knowing who was chasing whom, until one of the hunters crept up behind the bear and retrived an arrow from the bear’s hide with which he was able to end everything.
The Varsity Nezes of the University of Detroit tells us that the Radio Club of that school has set up a “ham” station and will soon go into operation with its own radio station. World-wide contacts will be established and the transmitter will run on a continuous wave.
California Tech ran a picture recently which should have gotten national publicity. It was a picture of a juicy Hoganburger, which is like a hamburger in appearance, but has a diameter greater than even Sydney Greenstreet. It was the prize in a contest, but before the lucky winner could bite into it, it disappeared. Perhaps it was better that way.
NO SPICKA DA ENGUS
The Kitty Kat, a publication of the University of Arizona, has discovered a joke which they report is currently rolling them in the aisles in Moscow:
Puervi: Kto buila dama, c kotoroi ya videl bac, vchera yecherom?
torui: One net dama, ona moya zhenya.
We, too, think it must be funny—one way or another. (And please don’t . think we’re going Communistic on you!)
The Ohio State Lantern reports that “spooks” of an unknown quality visited the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority house on Halloween night while the girls were out at a dance, and brought all the upstairs furniture downstairs and vice-versa. This should be taken as merely another proof that the powers a female has over a male are fantastically great. Remember, this was in absentia, too.
Seal
bq, floe Wilcox,
IN MEMORIAM
Notre Dame lost a great teacher and a great man last Saturday when Brother Justin Dwyer, c.s.c., until last year Professor of English, died after a long illness. Brother Justin was an able rector, a fascinating teacher, and a brilliant and witty conversationalist. It was my privilege to know him well. He had been ill for the past year or more, but despite his illness he managed to keep his spirits unimpaired. When confined to the Community Infirmary last June, he chafed at the bit, waiting until he could get back to the campus and the classroom again. Unfortunately, he never made it. Notre Dame students and alumni will deeply feel the loss of this cosmopolite from Newfoundland.
THE OFFENSE IS RANK ...
The back of my hand to the Colfax theatre for showing “Forever Amber,” and at upped prices at that. Miss Winsor, who wrote the thing to begin with, must have had a mind like the bottom of a bird cage. She wrote the book, in my opinion, with the sole idea of selling it to Hollywood. She made enough out of the amours and mistresses of the decadent Charles II with the book without making more out of a picture based, more subtly, perhaps, but still based, on the same amours and mistresses. Anybody who goes overboard with a buck or so for a flicker like that deserves no life raft thrown to him. Leave him to the Hollywood sharks.	-
WHEREIN I RECANT
The behavior of the Cadets from West Point, after the disastrous defeat administered to them by the Irish last week, shows that they are real gentlemen. They are sorry that Notre Dame and Army are breaking relations, and so am I. The enthusiasm of the crowd Saturday proves that if a home-and-home series were begun, there would be no lack of interest in it in South Bend. It was a clean, hard game. Army has a good team and I would like to see them play here again.
• To the reinstatement of the series, SKOAL!
SAME SONG. SAME VERSE DEFT.:
Returned, like a castaway cat, to make my life miserable is this chanteur McCarthy, with an Apologia pro Pegler Suo. He challenges me. I can prove what I said, but it will take me until next week to do it. I advise McCarthy not to wait with baited breath, although if he did, the consequences might not be
5
as tragic as one might think at first thought. I will simply remind McCarthy that this Pegler is the same man who recently repeated the old saw that the church has no business talking about such mundane things as economics. I refer, of course, to Pegler’s inane tirade about the N.C. W.C.’s condemnation of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Incidentally, I bow to McCarthy on one point. When I typed the first letter he wrote, as it was writ by hand, I apparently mistyped (a feat at which I have a considerable facility) the words “Not amusing” instead of “most amusing.”
THE FLY SWATTER AGAIN, WATSON. PLEASE .. .
For a refutation of this anonymous S.A.M. character, see Jim Cunningham’s letter in this issue. Blow: read the YCS column “Action, Inc.” in Our Sunday Visitor every week. To S.A.M.: you might read that esteemed publication a little more closely.
Just one more thing. The Chicago Tribune may have pointed out some Communistic propaganda in the series on text books, but they also included with so-called Communist propaganda some statements which were merely a reiteration of what the Popes have been saying all along. If it is Communistic to say that some of the people in this country are ill-housed and ill-fed, I am as Red as Earl Browder. And it is a historical fact, Tribune to the contrary notwithstanding, that the Republican administrations in the late nineteenth century were anything but unfriendly to the trusts and monopolies. I invite Mr. S.A.M.’s attention to the Pope’s remarks in “Quadragesimo Anno” anent monopolies and trusts.
APRES MOL LE DELUGE
Something in the nature of a major catastrophe descended on the Law School last week. They had prepared hopefully for about 300 guests at then-annual open house, but about 1200 strong poured into the gothic halls of the Law Building like the Assyrians coming down like wolves on the fold.
HAIL, WJVA
South Bend is to have a new radio station soon, WJVA. I hope that it presents its public with what it promises ... all day music. The present South Bend stations manage to avoid some of the better programs their nets present. WHOT, for instance, airs neither the Boston nor Detroit orchestras, while WSBT ignores the very fine Sunday show, “As Others See Us,” which is a very well-done review of the foreign press on America. If WJVA joins a network, I trust it will give South Bend tops in network shows.
A

’ Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
73
BEOWULF TO SUPERMAN
The Bookmen’s Club, campus literary organization, though paying scant attention to such works as Superman, indulges in most any kind of literature. It has been rumored that some of the club members spend week ends in the library. Prexy John Hart tells us that his men enjoy books, but they do not go to such extremes. They eat and sleep just like other human beings. They hold meetings and elect officers just as other clubs do. At the first meeting this year the Bookmen elected John Hart as president and chief bookworm. Vice-president Tom Gorman will turn the pages for him, Secretary Frank Heber will record the number of pages eaten. Prof. Willis Nutting of the History Department is the club moderator. The book boys meet every other Thursday. A club member gives a report on a book he has been assigned to read. An informal discussion on the book and the report follows. The club also has an occasional guest speaker. Dr. A. R. Caponigri, Philosophy Professor, talked on the new school of “Historicism” at a recent meeting. The next Bookmen Club meeting wil be held Nov. 27 in the Law Building.
BLUE GRASS BLUES
The gentlemen from Kentucky and environs met at the Kentucky Club meeting last week. They not only discussed who would win the Derby this year but why their horse didn’t win last year. Movies were shown.
The Youngstown Club is now preparing for its annual Christmas dance to be held in the “steel city.” Mike Lyden is the dance chairman, and John Mayo is his assistant. With Mike and John in there handling matters, it will be a bang-up affair. The newly elected officers for the Youngstown Club this year are George Walsh, president; Chuck Woods, vice-president; Jim Rodgers, treasurer, and Bill Lyden, secretary.
The Milwaukee Club will hold a meeting tonight in the Law Building. Committeemen Jim Ott and Stan Pearson will present plans for a Christmas dance.
The club will hold a stag party on November 24. The club, on the comeback trail after seven years in a coma, would appreciate all the lads from Milwaukee being present at this meeting.
CABLEGRAM	'
The Italian Club sent a cablegram to Premier DeGasperi in Italy, congratulating him on his fight against Communism. The Italian outfit has a full season planned. Peter Lusardi is rounding up a bowling team. Al Santangelo and Gene Rossi, entertainment committee-men, are making plans for a dance to be held in Mishawaka December 5. A music committee is out digging up an old Italian folk song that will be learned by all club members and sung at the meetings. At the last meeting Professor Hanley gave an interesting talk on “Italian Culture.” Prexy John Panelli presented the new club constitution.
The Central New York Club is planning a Christmas Dance. At the last meeting collection of a deposit for the dance was proposed to “prevent further debt.”
The Chicago Club will hold a victory dance after the Northwestern game in the Gold Room of the Congress Hotel. Movies of the ’46 Army game were shewn at the last meeting.
Word has reached this column that the Villagers have announced the following men as their officers: Norm Kapes, president; Beve Leibig, vice-president, and Ed Chartier, treasurer. Thus far, the town men have restricted themselves to a social affair at the St. Joseph’s hall featuring dancin’ and dunkin’ (sinkers j and cider that is). Undei- Ernie Zaleski, the boys are also sharpening their eyes in hopes of capturing an interhall basketball trophy.
At a meeting held on October 29, the Indianapolis Club turned in a report on its Christmas Dance. Bill Shine is the chairman of the proposed affair. Communion Breakfast is also being plan- S ned for sometime in December.	a
oThe Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN-----------------------------------Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK------------------------Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL-------------------------- Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian
ROBERT KOPF ____________Circulation
JOHN CLARK-------------------------------------Circulation
M. E. VARGA---------------------------Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.

Meet the Editor
Robert Thomas Stock is the associate news editor of the
Scholastic, which is a combination news hustler and rumor chaser. He’s from Cleveland, is 19, and will major in journalism if he ever climbs out
of his present sophomore status.
Bob has a wild mop of hair, rock-thick glasses, and a sharp noggin. He has worked for the Cleveland Plain Dealer and the Catholic Universe Btilletin. He had a field day at his native Cleveland recently, running a date bureau that completely ruined him with his friends.
' He is broke and recently misplaced a red lumberjack.
Bob Stock
CALENDAR
■ — ——
Nov. 14 RIVER PARK, Destry Rides Again and When the Daltons Rode. Nifty western fare. The former is one you’ll remember. Dietrich sings “See What the Boys in the Backroom Will Have,” and forever establishes herself as the throatiest warbler in the industry. A little brandy could clear up her rattle. Jimmy Stewart handles his role well. The second film is not up to the first.
PALACE, They Wouldn’t Believe Me. You won’t either.
POETRY READINGS. Karl Shapiro, winner of the Pulitzer prize for poetry, offers a series of readings from his poems: 4:15 p. m. in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Nov. 15 NOTRE DAME vs. NORTHWESTERN. Big weekend in Chicago. Irish linemen will be picking Wildcat meat out of their teeth after 30 minutes. But the Purple are always tough, so 20 points ought to do it.
ON THE RADIO: Metropolitan Opera matinee from the N. Y. Met. Texaco brings the Met to your sack-side from now till March. Premiere features Lawrence Tibbett and Jan Peerce in Verdi’s “Tosca.”
VICTORY DANCE. For those not in on the Chicago invasion the Drill Hall will again be the scene of post-game festivities on the campus.
Nov. 16 RIVER PARK, Suddenly It’s Spring. There are moments in this when Fred MacMurray is funny as a crutch. He’s best as a wise operator, but it takes a little time to warm up. Too much emphasis on Goddard, though. She’s not that attractive.
Nov. 18 PALACE, Lawrence Welk and his champagne music on stage, one day only. On the screen, Seven Keys to Baldpate, an old Earl Derr Biggers thriller about eight guys checkin’ in and only seven checkin’ out.
Nov. 19 PALACE, Possessed. This is the picture that brought its makers a lawsuit over observing mental patients at too close range. Joan Crawford (age undisclosed) is reported to have done a' credible job in her booby role.
RIVER PARK, Secret of the Whistler. We’ve always wondered what it was. Now we’ll know. Oh bliss! When they get around to it they ought to do one entitled the Secret of the Script Writer, or How to Bamboozle the Producers.
Nov. 20 GRANADA, Great Expectations. Here is the best picture to come to South Bend since Henry V. An English film, it is the Dickens period piece extremely well done by capable English performers. Some of the photography is masterful. Some of the sets are superb. It has atmosphere, suspense, and a good yarn. It restores one’s faith in the medium of the motion picture.
STUDENT OPEN FORUM, to discuss and report on the.NSA (National Student Association), 7:30 P. M. in the Engineering Auditorium. Important, as plans for Notre Dame’s official affiliation with NSA will be drawn up.
7
the. Cdifofc	.
Hall Masses on Sunday
This is a suggestion: how about Sunday morning Masses in the hall chapels?
The conduct in Sacred Heart church after 9 a. m. on Sundays is not very edifying. Masses are overcrowded to the point of abusing the privilege. Students clog the aisles near the doors, hang over the choir loft, and plug up the vestibules. Women and children, parents and friends, displace students at the later Masses.
The result is that those seated any distance from the altar fail to get the full devotional benefit of the Mass.
You can’t appreciate the Supreme Sacrifice in an atmosphere of scurrying late-comers, turning heads, and crashing kneeling-benches.
You can’t hear the sermons for the bronchial roar and raspy hacking. You can’t follow the priest on the altar for somebody’s overcoat sleeve in your face. You can’t pay attention to your prayers for the constant confessional distractions.
A saint couldn’t concentrate under these conditions.
Maybe now that the home footoaii season is winding up things will improve. Maybe a P. A. system could alleviate the sermon-situation. But we doubt it. The present enroll, ment is bursting the seams.
Hall Masses on Sunday could give the Mass back to the students.
One Strong Impression
One very strong, and very satisfying impression remains with the Scholastic following last week’s extremely colorful Army-Notre Dame week end. This concerns the relations which existed between the approximately 300 West Point Cadets and the 4,500-odd Notre Dame students. In a word they were exemplary. It is no secret that pre-game bullsessions at Notre Dame abounded with highly unflattering references to the Corps of Cadets—influenced, no doubt, by the scores of the 1944 and ’45 Army-ND games. Conversely, what Cadets thought of and spoke about Notre Dame previously, although not definitely known, can be garnered from this typical remark of the visiting Kaydet, “It [the visit] certainly changes my opinion of this place.”
However, personal contacts have a remarkable way of changing distant impressions and misconceptions. Such was the case last week, as Scholastic’s feature story today so interestingly points out. Notre Dame men found West Point Cadets to be fine gentlemen, especially in defeat, and not the personal automatons which their precise, uniformed appearance might lead one to believe. On the other hand, the 300 First Classmen discovered the hospitality of Notre Dame and of Notre Dame men to be warm and sincere.
It seems strange and not a little unfortunate that this firm basis of mutual respect and friendship, founded on personal relationships, should have taken so long to develop. But the fault lies in the fact that the Army-Notre Dame series
$
has been conducted almost entirely away from the respective schools, where little or no person-to-person contact was possible.
May the Scholastic be so bold as to suggest that this termination of football relations between West Point and
Notre Dame (even though it prove only temporary) might have very heartening results? Does it make sense, may we ask, to allow a promising friendship to dwindle into nothing
ness through lack of attention? Do Notre Dame relations with West Point have to be limited to football? Both insti
tutions carry a very diversified and extensive program of extra-curricular activities, conducted along inter-collegiate lines. Baseball, track, cross-country, tennis, debating, fencing, etc. are excellent fields wherein Army-Notre Dame rela
tions can be solidified and developed. And should football relations again be resumed the foundations on which success
ful intercourse must be built will be firmly in place.
The Scholastic fervently echoes, for all concerned to hear, the words of one Cadet, “When we marched into the Stadium and got a hand from the N. D. student section we felt a lot better about coming. I only hope some day the Corps can pay you back.”
Notre Dame men and West Point men have too much in common that is good and necessary to allow even a temporary severance of relations.
Deprivation
The announcement that next year’s Southern California game would be played in Los Angeles left many football fans hereabouts scratching their heads. “Is this not,” they asked, “a home-and-home series?” The last time that Southern Cal put in an appearance here was in 1946; in the usual course of things they would play here again in 1948. But the game is to be in Los Angeles. Why?
&
It is probably no secret that next year’s home games will draw no great enthusiasm. There will be no game with the emotional appeal of Army’s last game this year; none of the epic battles between great teams that the Stadium has seen in the past. Most of the teams to play here will be mediocre organizations, typical of the teams that unfortunately seem to want to play Notre Dame. Southern Cal, a strong team, seems certain to be strong again next year. It is their year to play here. But the game will be played in Los Angeles, a city not notorious for its proximity to South Bend.
And so, for the second consecutive year, the students of Notre Dame will be deprived of what well may be the closest and hardest fought game on the schedule. They will have to content themselves with games in which the only question will be the size of the score. The students of Southern California, lucky enough to see the game this year, will have the pleasure of seeing it again in 1948. This is carrying charity i too far.
Next year’s Southern Cal game is Notre Dame’s home game. It ought to be played in the Notre Dame Stadium, not in the Los Angeles Coliseum. Pressure from Los Angeles and others with no interest in Notre Dame outside of the gate receipts and the prestige involved should not have prec-0H edence over the students from whose ranks the Notre Dame g team is drawn.	i
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 8
NOVEMBER 14, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Campus-Wide Relief Program Planned
BENEFITS GO TO EUROPE'S STUDENTS
By SHAUN McDERMOTT
£ With all campus organizations banding together for the biggest high-pres-sured campaign ever seen here, students of the University of Notre Dame will get an opportunity to put into practice the principles of a Christian life by participating in the Student Relief Campaign, which is being sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
The purpose of the drive, which will be held in conjunction with othei- Catholic colleges throughout the country, will be to give assistance to the “forgotten man” in foreign relief measures—the college student. Prime consideration in granting aid to foreign peoples has been shown to the very young and the old.
In announcing Notre Dame’s participation, Lou Burns of Dillon Hall and Washington, D. C., campus chairman of the NFCCS, stated, “It is our aim to help out these people before the Commu-nists ‘help’ them.”
The plan for the NFCCS Student Relief Campaign is divided into two phases, the first of which will consist of raising funds. This will continue until Christmas, with the second phase from February through May having as its object the collection of clothing, books, etc. Among the proposed money-making plans are numerous dances, raffles, mite boxes, personal subscriptions and interhall sports competitions.
Purchase and distribution of the relief supplies will be under the direction of the War Relief Services of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, which has been engaged in this work for some time and has field representatives in the nations needing aid.
The Student Relief Campaign originated last spring at the National Congress of the NFCCS when Martin McLaughlin of Notre Dame made a proposal to aid distressed foreign students. The plan was approved by the Administrative Board of the NCWC under the
Student Council Moves to Replace Resigned
Officers; Hears Report on Homicide Highway
Legislative gears of the Student Council were meshed and legal cogs began grinding this week as a result of the recent resignation of two officers and
LOU BURNS
Assistance to the "forgotten man"
chairmanship of Archbishop John T. Mc-Nicholas of Cincinnati, and by Archbishop Richard J. Cushing of Boston, the Episcopal Moderator of the NFCCS.
While this will be an NFCCS function and will use their structural machinery, it will transcend that group on the campus level. In the Fort Wayne region of the NFCCS, Dorothy McFarland of St. Mary’s will act as chairman. At Notre Dame, in addition to Burns, the committee will be composed of Martin McLaughlin, Frank Keenan, Bob Uhl, Bill Ball, Jack Murphy, Vince Hogan, Pat Haggerty, George Sullivan, Bob Lanz, Cliff Blum and Bill Meehan.
members of the Stay Council. Both Lawrence Turner and John McCormick gave up their respective positions on the Council as president and secretary. In his letter of resignation McCormick regretfully announced that other heavy obligations prevented him from doing full justice to his office as secretary and representative of Sorin Hall. His successor to the latter position is John Con-very.
This turn of events called for immediate action, since the constitution, as written, does not provide for the emergency succession of officers. A succession amendment, drawn up this week, will be presented to the Council at its next meeting for ratification. Meanwhile the Council passed a motion that Vice-President Ralph Thorson act as interim president and appoint a temporary secretary. Thorson accordingly appointed Jack Guion.
The St. Mary’s crossing bogey popped up once more this week when a councilman asked if any precautions had been taken on the Dixie highway during the Aimy-Notre Dame Victory Dance. President Thorson replied that three policemen were stationed at the crossing last Saturday night.
He also stated that, after making a survey, the State Road Commission has informed the University that the quantity of traffic does not warrant the installment of a traffic light, but that it (the Road Commission) will put up Scotch light warning signs on the approaches to the scene if the two schools will agree to install floodlights at the entrance to St. Mary’s. Thorson added, however, that Father Barry, Director of Student Activities, had declared that the installation of some warning light at that point is very necessary.
—Bill Bradley
9
Notre Dame's Claude Julien Represents YCS At UNESCO Conference in Mexico City
By TOM MURRAY
At the second annual conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) now being held in the Palace of Fine Arts in Mexico City is Notre Dame’s Claude Julien, graduate student in political science and lecturer in French literature.
Julien, whose home is in Paris, is representing the Young Christian Students (YCS) movement of the world, being selected as the delegate at a recent meeting of the YCS International Commission in Paris. The YCS is the only international student organization being represented as such, all the others—including Pax Romana, International Union of Students, and the world Student Federation—being represented together by one delegate.
When asked by a Scholastic reporter why the YCS was singled out to have its own delegate, Julien replied that “YCS is the only movement of students which has a group on every campus and which can give a complete picture of student needs from a cultural viewpoint.” He pointed out further that the experiences of the YCS International, which has successfully trained students in various countries, have proved that deep understanding can be brought about on an international plane. Consequently, UNESCO wants to know all about the YCS International, so it can profit from its experiences, hoping to become equally successful in promoting international understanding.
Amiable, continental Claude Julien is the National Leader of the Young Christian Students in France, largest Catholic Action Organization of its kind in that country. He came to Notre Dame in January upon the invitation of the University.
One of 11 children, he was educated in his native southern France at Toulouse College, later at the Sorbonne. In 1942 he joined a resistance movement of university students operating throughout France. Espionage, the acquisition of information for the R.A.F. and American bombers, and destruction of transportation lines were the order of the day. His work was primarily concerned with writing for and helping to edit the resistance Cahiers du Temoignage Chretien, now the most significant Catholic newspaper
10
in France, with a circulation of almost a third of a million.
In the summer of 1946 he met Father Louis Putz, c.s.c., when the latter was in France. Father Putz suggested that he come to Notre Dame, and Claude jumped at the chance. He crossed on the Ile-de-France and arrived here prior to the start of the spring semester. After he has received his degree he will return to his war-torn country, which he hopes to help rebuild. He also hopes to join Georges Bidault’s MRP, significant and extensive French Christian party.
Other Catholics present at the conference include Monsignor Frederick G. Hochwelt, representing the American Catholics; Jacques Maritain, French ambassador to the Vatican; a delegation from the Vatican; and George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College and a Notre Dame alumnus.
Badinites Recrowned Decoration Champs
The artists of Badin hall borrowed from Al Capp last week and came up with the best hall display on the campus. Old Man Mose, the aged cynic of the hills, was viewed distastefully dropping the Army mule into a vat of Kick-apoo joy juice, while a host of Dog-patchers looked on. Notably absent from the group was Miss Jones, the gal with the stupefying figure. However, the look on the mule’s face was an indication that he had felt her presence nearby.
In a week end which saw numerous precedents shattered, the Badinites stood firm in repeating the victory they garnered last year. The three judges, Mr. LeClair Eells of the Commerce school, Father Healy of Corby hall, and Father Doll of Moreau Seminary, awarded the decision unanimously to Badin. They awarded honorable mention places to Sorin and Walsh halls.
In view of the biting wind and rain, the judges felt a special commendation should be granted the decorating help in each of the halls. Evidences of hard work and originality were noted in each of the decorations.
A hall banquet will be granted the Badin residents as their prize. The time and place for the affair will be announced later.—Lawrence S. Connor
MAN
About the Campus
By J. P. O'NEILL
Announcer: “Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, from the sidewalk here in front of the Post Office, radio station WND brings you another in the series of weekly, on the spot, ‘Man About the Campus’ interviews.
“You, sir, would you mind telling us your name, class and residence hall?”
Student: “Not at all. My name is Noel Digby. I’m a Senior, Journalism major, graduating in January, and I live^. off campus with my wife and two yeai' — old son, Mike.”
Announcer: “How do you do. Noel; Journalism major, eh? What are your ambitions along that line?”
Digby: “Well, I would like to write radio scripts, preferably for a progressive station not too hampered by its advertisers, and also produce and direct radio shows. I’m very much interested in television, which I hope to see bringing good drama to more people.”
Announcer: “Have you had any directing experience?”
Digby: “Yes, I’ve directed several shows, including last semester’s ‘Meet the Missus.’ Right now I’m directing a play for the St. Joseph’s Little Theatre here in South Bend. It’s called ‘The Far-Off Hills.’ ”
Announcer: “You seem quite inter-^ ested in dramatics. Have you done much^ acting?”
Digby: “Well, I gained my first real acting experience with ‘The Little Theatre’ in New Orleans, my home town. I’ve also played several seasons in summer stock and I’ve been in a couple of campus shows, including ‘Let’s Get Going’.”
Announcer: “That show was put on four or five years ago wasn’t it, Noel?”
Digby: “Yes, I started here at Notre Dame in the Fall of 1941 and left later to spend two and one-half years in the Navy. I returned last Fall.”
Announcer: “Do you belong to any campus clubs?”
i
Digby: “Yes, the Vet’s Club and I’m j President of the Press Club.	|
Announcer: “Well, I see that our | time is about up. Thank you Noel Dig-gH| by for being our ‘Man About the Cam-’^ pus’ for this week.”	g
>Thespians Rehearse "Pirates of Penzance;" Opening Performance Set for December 4
By HARRY MONAHAN
Announcement has been made that the lay faculty of the University will attend the opening performance of “The Pirates of Penzance” in Washington Hall on the evening of December 4. Attendance will follow the regular monthly Lay Faculty Dinner. It is estimated that some 200 instructors, wives and guests will be in this group.
While rehearsals of the cast are putting the final polish on this student production, the men who will keep things moving behind stage from the time of the overture until the final curtain call on the evening of December 8 are busy getting backstage problems ironed out. Mr. Cecil E. Birder, Head of the Speech Department, who is directing the production, has warm praise for the efficient manner in which his technical help is doing its part to make this presentation successful.
Robert Schmid will be at the switches to arrange the lighting. Handling the powder and paint for the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s thespians will be Miss Petrina Mitchell. The Architecture Department has undertaken to prepare the scenery. Mr. Frederick H. Ingersoll, assistant professor of music, has had the orchestra in rehearsal for several weeks now and will conduct the orchestra during the performances.
Pianist William Gibbons is one of Mr. Birder’s mainstays during the present rehearsal schedule. While the cast is able to work in shifts, Gibbons has been able £ to grab a little relief time away from the keyboard.
Others are equally active in handling the many details outside the sphere of actual production work. Frank Venner has been working on the advance radio publicity, while Edward Kempf is pushing the ticket distribution. Tickets will be ready for distribution to the student body on December 1, continuing through the 4, in the basement of the Dining Halls from 1:00 to 4:00 in the afternoons. Athletic books, not identification cards as stated in last week’s Scholastic, will be needed for students to secure tickets. Students will be permitted one ticket each, married students may secure two tickets.
Scholastic photographic editor James Ferstel has undertaken the assignment to prepare a cover for the program and Albert Grzelien is arranging the other details on the printing of ^the programs. John Quinlan is in charge of the sales promotion of the libretto, a small pamphlet which explains
the plot of the opera, which will go on sale on campus shortly.
“I feel that Gilbert and Sullivan operas are ample for university production. With these facilities it is not difficult to adhere to the original score,” was Mr. Birder’s statement when asked if any alterations had been found necessary to adapt “The Pirates of Penzance” for student production.
The schedule of performances is for evening shows on December 4, 5, 7, and 8 with curtain time at 8:15. A special afternoon matinee will be given on Sunday, December 7, at 2:00 p. m., for the religious on campus.
—Harry Monahan
Brother Justin Dies After Long Illness
It was a balmy Indian summer afternoon in early October of last year when a Notre Dame student strolled past the steps leading out of old Carroll hall in front of the Main Building. His thoughts turned to pre-war days when the old
BROTHER JUSTIN DWYER. c.s.c. It wasn't the same
C a r r o 1 1 freshman gang would be sprawled on the lawn by the side door of Sacred. Heart Church, laughing, singing, studying, talking or joking with the Brothers. To his astonishment there sitting on the steps now leading to locked doors was a saddened and rather lonely figure. The student smiled and said in passing, “Hello, Brother, doesn’t seem the same___you sitting here without the gang around you.” Brother Justin missed his freshmen, but now everyone who knew him will, indeed, miss this beloved campus figure.
Brother Justin Dwyer, C.S.C., who had been ill for some time, died Saturday night in the Community Infirmary of a heart attack. A Solemn Requiem Mass was held in Sacred Heart Church on Tuesday morning at 8 o’clock and the burial was in the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame.
Brother Justin was born James Dwyer on Oct. 29, 1894, at Tilting, Newfoundland, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Dwyer. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross on Jan. 23,1922, and received a bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame in 1932 and a master’s degree from Notre Dame in 1936. From 1925 to 1928 he served as principal of Cathedral High school in Indianapolis and in 1934 returned to Notre Dame as rector of Brownscn dormitory where he served until 1937. In 1939 he was principal of Central Catholic High school in Fort Wayne and from 1939 until 1944 he was rector of Carroll dormitory at Notre Dame. During this time at Notre Dame he was an associate professor of English.
Surviving Brother Justin are two brothers, Harry and Clarence Dwyer, and one sister, Winifred Dwyer, all of Newfoundland.—Phil Shea
Met Club to Dance At Waldorf-Astoria
Pikers and penny-pinchers are two adjectives that most certainly cannot be applied to the Met Club, considering the announcement that their annual Christmas formal is to be held at the swank Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria. Even though the dance will be held at such an exclusive hotel, bids will cost only $6, including tax.
The gala affair will be held on December 26, and all the hometown belles will be able to swish and swash in the plush bistro from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Bids will go on sale next week and will be available in halls on the campus.
Chicago has its Panther and Pump Room and L.A. has Ciro’s, but these are merely proletarian in comparison with the aristocratic New York ballroom. The Starlight Roof is in a class by itself, with its head literally in the clouds, atop the skyscraping Park Avenue hotel which was the topic of the movie, “Weekend at the Waldorf.”
Harry Arnold and his ten-piece cafe society orchestra will play for the formal holiday shindig. This baton-waver and his aggregation are well remembered from last year’s dance.
Parents and alumni are invited to attend, as well as any N.D. student who might find himself in the vicinity at that time. The theme will he “Campus Spirit in the Empire City.”
Phil Shea and Shaun McDermott are chairman and assistant chairman respectively. Roy Wendell is in charge of publicity with Vince O’Reilly taking care of entertainment. Jack Harrington and Tom Mulvey round out the committee heads as bids and music chairmen.
—Ken Thoren
11
A CHEERFUL HELLO . ..
Blue Circle's Jerry Hekker welcomes Regimental Commander Braswell.
N.D. Men Soothe Scars of Tardy Corps' Lost Battle With Kind Hospitality to End Rivalry on Happy Note
By GREG HALPIN and HARRY MONAHAN
“They came, they saw, they could not conquer ...”
The drought ended, tradition was broken and another notable first (and possibly last) was entered in the Notre Dame record book. Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish eleven ended a three-year famine of touchdowns scored against Army, getting their first taste of this nourishing fruit before the game was thirty seconds old. The Cadet tradition of entering the field promptly at 12:30 for its pre-game drill was shattered by the delayed arrival of their special train from West Point. Spectators who were veterans of many previous Notre Dame-Army conflicts swear that you could set
CADETS COME ...
your watch by the entry of the corps of Cadets into Yankee Stadium. Notre Dame Stadium played host to its first group of Cadets from the Military Academy ever to parade on its greensward. Saturday, November 8, 1947, set its own precedence, wrote its own story; a precedence and story, the sum total of which has led many to hope that it will be repeated soon with the early resumption of football relations between these two institutions.
The Administration, the Blue Circle and other organizations were able to set up the week-end schedule and insure its execution from the Notre Dame side, but the NYC apparently is beyond the sphere of campus influence because its schedule of arrivals for the specials failed to materialize. The extensive plan for the entertainment of the Cadets had to undergo correction and deletion until it was reduced to a shivering skeleton blown about by the Indiana gale. But it was a lively skeleton that extended the Irish hand of greeting to next year’s crop of second lieutenants.
A small group of greeters gathered at the St. Mary’s siding to escort the West Pointers to the official welcome to be extended in front of the Dining Hall. It was a distressed group of Academy officials *and University representatives which was forced to return to the
campus until later. The same group returned to the siding at noon as rumors of the Cadets’ arrival flew faster than reports of steak in the Dining Hall. The welcoming committee was augmented by relatives and friends of Cadets, each nervously keeping one eye on his watch and the other down the NYC right-of-way.
As the hour appointed for the Cadets to enter the Stadium came and passed, still without any sign of the Army caravan, Notre Dame Band Director H. Lee Hope began tearing pages out of his pre-game schedule. There was no mistaking the Cadet train as it pulled in with its chalked signs proclaiming Army’s intent to “Beat Notre Dame.” At 12:45 the fourteen Pullman cars of
“Operation Irish” hit the siding and the Invasion was on. Blue Circle representatives Gerard Hekker and Tom Green extended the welcome of the Notre Dame student body to Cadet Commander Arnold Braswell, acting for his Cadet unit. With scarcely time to say hello to the relatives and friends on hand to greet them, Uncle Sam’s future generals were lined up, and, to the sound of 300 voices chanting “On Brave Old Army Team,” were marched to the Stadium.
There was no need for a strong^ Scholastic editorial to warn our visitors about Homicide Highway, for one of the
CADET CHEERING SECTION AT WORK A throaty crew in defeat
CLASHMORE MIKE MEETS ARMY'S MULE A sassy hound in victory
12
CADET AND NEW-FOUND FRIENDS AT VICTORY DANCE False opinions were fast changing
FAREWELL TO NOTRE DAME "Everyone's been swell"
Dixie Demons put on a convincing demonstration of its lethal possibilities by lurching, skidding and weaving through the intersection to his own melody of screeching brakes as the head of the Cadet column reached the highway. Another uniformed, but apparently disinterested, group of witnesses to the incident was a unit of Indiana State Troopers.
Many in the Stadium did not realize how closely the pre-game ceremonies
BOTH
’ CONQUER...
were pushing the clock. In a hurried conference between Band Director Hope and an Army official held on the breezy St. Mary’s siding and in a speeding car enroute to the Stadium, all the plans made weeks ago and practiced by both the Cadets and the Notre Dame Band were discarded, and a substitute program was made up. The Notre Dame Band was poised at the tunnel and moved out on the turf as soon as the first Cadet footfall hit the concrete ramp at 1:10, Spectators witnessed a short drill by the unit while the Indiana winds played through the disciplined ranks to send grey caps scattering down the field. One cadet regained his cap through the serv-■ices of a quick-handed buddy, while another received succor from one of the legions of photographers on the field.
Others were beyond relief and had to swat it out minus their headgear.
While only 300 strong, the Cadets were in fine voice and let it be known that they were behind the dogged, but stunned, team which carried the Black and Gold into combat that afternoon. And it wasn’t the Notre Dame student body which swarmed ovei* the wall to escort a victorious Irish eleven to its dressing room, but a grey-caped wave which swept up a team that had just suffered its worst defeat in 35 starts.
When it was all over and Frank Leahy’s “lads” had given Kaydet heads much food for despondent thought, the Grey Wave moved from the scene of the crime to the Dining Hall. There was no special treatment of the soldiers or the food, and GI issue mixed with tweed and corduroy on the long lines that led to roast beef and mashed potatoes.
And so, after 33 years of glaring at each other across Yankee Stadium, of firing long range verbal salvos of highly uncomplimentary nature east to the Hudson and west to the St. Joe; after bitter and boastful letter exchanges between the literary groups of both schools, the “deadhead” and the “Irish Bum” sat down at a long walnut table over a tray of food and a cup of coffee and really got to know each other for the first time.
FALSE IDEAS

And what impression did the Kaydet carry to the East with him Saturday about these Notre Dame students, this new-found species? How did he compare the Point to that “Little Bit of Heaven just outside South Bend”? He thought a lot, and, for the most part, he told all.
The Kaydet. was very impressed with the Notre Danie ‘ campus. “Terrific!” “Really swell,” “Nice looking,” Some beautiful buildings,” and “Lots of room” were typical reactions as expressed by the Army to Scholastic reporters. As one guest put it, “I’m - going to feel crowded when I get back to the Point. There’s so much room around here.”
The Kaydet was surprised and overcome with the reception he got here.
(Continued on Page 21)
... A TENDER GOODBYE
The girls were wonderful (for complete picture see page 25)
13
Tomorrow’s Target .
By KEN THOREN
Chicagoland, Paradoxical Metropolis, Readies Itself For a Notre Dame Invasion
And a Wildcat Skinning
A mass hegira will take place tomorrow when hundreds of spick and span Notre Dame men make an exodus to Chicago to see the Northwestern game. For many it will be their first visit to the city which Sandburg describes as “under the smoke,.dust all over his mouth, laughing with white teeth,” while for others it will be just another week end at home.
For the former group it should prove to be a mighty interesting sojourn with lots of surprises. If there is any spot in America that could qualify for the title, City of Paradox, it is Chicago. It’s clean and it’s dirty; it’s rich and it’s poor; it’s ugly and it’s beautiful. Above all else, though, it is extremely exciting.
By El to Dyche Stadium
LOOKING NORTH ON MICHIGAN AVE. (WRIGLEY BLDG. AT LEFT) It's dean and it’s dirty; it’s rich and it's poor; .. .
Since it is only two hours away by train, few classes will have to be cut in order to get there in time for the pigskin clash. If you don’t have a car, the best way to get out to Evanston, which is about 20 miles north of the Loop, is by either the Evanston Express El or by the Northwestern Railroad. Both will deposit you within a few blocks of Dyche Stadium. The phony, pessimistic prognosticators say we have a good chance to eke through for another win. The bloody debacle is bound to serve up lots of thrills and grade A playing, so if only for the game, the week end will be worthwhile.
Following the final whistle things will really begin to pop. Immediately afterwards, the Off Campus Women’s Club of Northwestern is going to start their brawl in N. D.’s honor at Scott Hall, Room 3C0. The lakeside campus is about eight blocks from the Wildcats’ Stadium.

The Windy City
For those with gambling blood, this hepped-up version of a tea dance should be worth looking into.
For those, however, who let this “chance of a lifetime” slip by and return to Chicago it will be about time to refill those pear-shaped sacs at the end of the gullet. The Windy City is stuffed to the brim with restaurants to meet all appetites and pocketbooks. Most of the®-eateries are peppered throughout the Loop area. La Petite Gourmet and the Chuck Wagon are reasonable and highly recommended. For those with as yet uncashed GI checks there are the Pump Room and the Buttery, among a host of other excellent bean wagons. Don’t try the Pump Room, though, unless you’re adept at eating off a burning sword.
The main event of the evening will be the Chicago Club’s Victory Dance. It is to be held in the Gold Room at the Congress Hotel, starting at nine with $3.00 per couple being charged for the bids. Emmet O’Neill is chairman of the clambake and has announced that all Notre Dame men, as well as their friends, are invited.
Chicago's Night Life
Since the dance is to continue until the _ first rays of light break over frigid Lake Michigan, you might like to go some place earlier. Chicago ranks second only to New York in regard to night life. You’ll find all the latest movies at the Loop’s myriad show palaces. The Chicago and Oriental theatres feature stage shows along with their flickers. Although tickets for the legitimate productions will be scarce as a five-cent cup of coffee, there might possibly be a chance of getting some returned stubs at the box offices.
Right now the theatre season is in full swing with a fistful of good shows on the boards. The unbeatable Lunt and Fontanne duo are appearing in “O, Mistress Mine.” Frog-voiced Tallulah Bankhead is packing them in at “Private Lives” while Mary Martin is "Doin’ What Comes Nat’rully” in the smash musical, “Annie Get Your Gun.” Another musical is “The Chocolate Soldier” which is pure corn but good clean fun. French students and followers of
(Continued on Page 26)
14
•SCHOLASTIC SLCLTT
Luckless Wildcats Await Irish Tornado
Central Collegiate Harriers Next Goal
NORTHWESTERN HOLDS ONLY 3 WINS IN SERIES INAUGURATED WAY BACK IN '89
Tomorrow at Des Moines the Irish harriers will attempt to unseat Drake, three-year Central Collegiate title holder from the coveted top position of the nation’s distance teams. The Notre Dame squad, winner of six consecutive victories this fall, will be aiming at something bigger, something more difficult: an undefeated season and the national title on Monday, November 24 at East Lansing.
Last year the Irish bowed to Drake for the third straight year, and tomorrow’s battle promises to be one of the biggest in the annals of collegiate running. Added to the fact that Notre Dame has suffered humiliation for the past several seasons is the fact that in the Loyola University run a few weeks ago the N.D. group gave Drake its first thrashing in three years. There were a few incidents of boxing and roughing in the Loyola contest which the Notre Dame runners have not forgotten either.
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy will rely on the. seven strong cross-country men who have carried his team to victory in six duels to date. They are Jim
(Continued on Page 23)	.
By BOB LEANDER
Coach Bob Voigts can sit back with an air of confidence tomorrow as he watches his Wildcats tangle with Notre Dame’s undefeated, untied, championship aspirants. It isn’t that his Wildcats are likely to find a new way of losing. No matter which technique they choose, it won’t be the first time, for in his first semester as North western’s head coach, Voigts has seen his lukewarm balls of fire trounced by practically every device in the books, plus five plays last week which experts are still searching for.
Voigts may have sensed the hopelessness of his plight when, on opening day, Vanderbilt employed a third string sophomore to boot a field goal and clinch a 3-0 victory for the Commodores. If that wasn’t indication enough, surely the sight two weeks later of his stellar halfback, Tom Worthington, being dropped by Minnesota’s forward wall for a safety could have left little doubt as to what the season had in store for him. The most rabid Evanston rooter would be hard pressed to proclaim the ’47 season a successful one—thus far. There have been two undeniably bright spots. The
Wildcats squeaked by UCLA in a 27-26 upset, and shaded Bo McMillin’s Hoosiers 7-6 on a third-period pass interception. The ’Cats, it seems, demand to look spectacular in winning as well as losing, but they’ve proved much more consistent in the latter regard. Following Vanderbilt’s narrow victory, Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin went on to lick them by three touchdowns or more, before Ohio State settled for a tainted 7-6 margin last Saturday.
Notre Dame’s unmarred success combines with these Northwestern miseries to recall a similar situation that occurred a few years back. In 1935 the Irish, led by Andy Pilney, defeated Ohio State 18-13 in the waning seconds of their tussle, counting all three touchdowns in the last quarter. That gave Notre Dame six straight victories with NU on deck, and a sadly battered Northwestern it was. Not too sadly mauled, however, to rise up and hand the Irish their only defeat of the season, 14-7. Nor were the Wildcats to be tamed in 1901 when they inflicted a 2-0 beating on that year’s otherwise undefeated Notre Dame eleven. Of course, these are only two
(Continued on Page 18)
,	PRESENTING THE MEN WHO WILL SPEARHEAD NORTHWESTERN'S ATTACK
Quarterback Don Burson.	Center Alex Sarkisian	Halfback Frank Aschenbrenner
15
iBitiiiitiiiiuiiitimiiimiiiniutsiiiutMiiiiit'iiMimtmMimumtiiiaaiiitiiaaaaiiiuiiaaiiHUiitttiiiiiatiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiitmiaatmiiiHiiaaauimaiu]
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
With Pete
aiitaiitiitatiiititiiiiiitiiiiituiititiiitiiiittiitiiiiiiiaiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiatiiiiiaitttaiiiiiataiiiiiiiiiaiiuiatttitaiaaaitiiiiiaiaaitiiiiaiaatttiiiiaitaaaiaaaaaaiiiaiaaaaaia
It must have been a strange sight at West Point Sunday to see a battle-
worn mule scampering back home with tin cans tied on his long ears and his frayed tail between his legs. In fact it
is a wonder the animal arrived home with his tail still intact. Once again the mule that has been through peace and war came out second best to a small but d e t e r m i ned Irish terrier, who proved last Saturday that his bite is as big if not bigger than his
bark. Now the mule keepers at West Point know how we felt in 1944-45 when our underfed terrier came home looking like a refugee from the Texas City explosion. The only difference is that this mule was not underfed. He just met his match, and then some.
In 18 seconds the terrier in the person of Terry Brennan answered the critics of Notre Dame and himself in a fashion unfamiliar to followers of the now defunct Notre Dame-Army series.
1)	What’s wrong with Notre Dame? Nothing.
2)	Notre Dame has no running at-
WHAT A DIFFERENCE...
Sad Mr. Blaik and company
tack. You have rocks in your head.
3)	Terry Brennan can’t run. Those weren’t roller skates he used.
4)	Army is just as good as last year. You must be speaking of the Russian army.
Everything comes to him who waits. When it did come, the revenge was sweet, but not as sweet as it could have been if the Black Knights had played heads-up ball against Columbia. Some of us can still remember the beaten expressions on the faces of the players who came back from the 1944 humiliation in New York.
There were a few sour notes in the pressbox during and after the game. When “Rip” Rowan plowed through the Irish line for the first Army score against a Leahy coached team, the world beating journalists from the east coast let out a mighty cheer as if the touchdown had won the game. These are the same men who at the pep rally for the Army game last year said their hearts were with Notre Dame. The Army had a word for them—the civilian war-time army.
Also shortly after the game one of the transients commented that if Fold-berg and Poole were there it would have been a different story. That might be true, but if Notre Dame had had the depth and experience of the Army team of 1944-45, the outcome would have been entirely different. However, you have to take these characters for what they are worth.
The only two glimmers from Army’s once bright star were Rowan and Arnold Galiffa. Rowan, a fellow townsman of Joe Signaigo from Memphis, looked as good or better than his predecessor, Mr. Inside, did last year. His smacks at the Notre Dame line looked like Blanchard’s press clippings. Galiffa stepped into the shoes of one A. Tucker and did the old brogans justice. His delayed runs through the center had the Irish forwards confused all day.
The 39 men who’ romped on and off the field from the Irish bench proved that they are in a class by themselves. If the machine which has been improving from week to week has not hit its stride yet and is open to further improvement, Northwestern, Tulane and USC are in for a rough time on coming Saturdays.
Pickers Fear Five T.D. e 'Letdown' against NU
Fur will fly when the Irish meet the Wildcats at Dyche Stadium Saturday. Northwestern, after an unsuccessful season thus far, is putting forth everything to crash the winner’s column against N. D.
But when the dust settles, eleven tattered and tamer kittens will be heading for the showers. At least this is the opinion of the boys in the caf who claim to be experts at long range forecasting.
Rog O’Connor, Boot Hill, N. D., Morrissey Hall—ND, 67; NU, 6.
“Everybody will win monograms Saturday.”
Dan Finn, New York City, Farley— ND, 34; NU, 7.
“We should have things pretty much our own way all afternoon. Northwestern might be able to score against the '* reserves.”
Bill Brown, Myrtle Beach, S. C., Alumni—ND, 6; NU, 0.
“There will be an awful letdown.”
Emmett O’Neil, Chicago,' Ill., Cavanaugh—ND, 33; NU, 0.
“The team won’t want to tire themselves out and miss the Chicago Club Dance at the Congress Hotel from 9 to 1 Saturday night. Bids $3.00.”
Hanley Irish, Chicago, Ill., Sorin — ND, 19; NU, 12.
“Northwestern has been laying for ND all season — she will get us on the rebound after the tough Army game last week.”
Tom Clifford, Gary, Ind., Dillon — ND, 39; NU, 6.
“The first two teams should run up four touchdowns in the first half and let the other boys glide the rest of the way.”
Bob Murphy, Bloomington, Ill., Dillon —ND, 34; NU, 0.	?
“Leahy will hold down the score so he can hit S.C. with everything he’s got.”
Happy Mr. Leahy and company
16
•N.D. Legs Get New Look from Machines
Two new body-building apparatuses, a calf-developing, and a leg-pressing machine, are now available at Father Lange’s gymnasium to students interested in developing a fine pair of strong, well-defined legs. These machines, designed and constructed by Father Lange, are very efficient in building the leg muscles.
The leg-pressing machine has a rectangular wooden base mounted on wheels. Weights are supported on pegs inserted
FATHER LANGE AND CALF-DEVELOPER For N.D.- men. more muscles
in a small platform to which are attached two metal pipes. These pipes slide into two larger pipe sleeves, the sleeves being firmly attached to the sides of the base platform. Lying on the platform in a supine position with the knees flexed and placed vertically against the weight-laden platform, the next step is to straighten out the legs, thus pressing the weight upwards.
The calf-developing machine is constructed similarly to the leg-pressing machine, but with longer pipe sleeves and a slot in the weight-supporting platform to fit the shoulders. When in position with the weight resting on the shoulders, feet flat on the base, the weight is lifted by rising on the toes.
A complete assortment of weights is also at students’ disposal in aiding one to round out an afternoon workout.
DOME PICTURES
All January. June and August graduates who have not received an appointment for their DOME picture please report before November 21 at DOME office, Walsh Hall basement, between 1:30 and 5:30 p. m.
INTLLLALL TCCTLALL
By JOE ARCHIBALD and TOM ADAMS
Morrissey’s dogged, determined interhall gridders climbed out of the cellar momentarily this week to hold high-flying Lyons to a scoreless tie, and ruin an otherwise perfect league standing for- the Western Division pace-setters. Cavanaugh continued to lead the eastern half of the loop with a record of four victories against no defeats. In other interhall contests Dillon dropped Walsh, 7-0; Zahm tripped Breen-Phillips, 12-0, and Badin fought Alumni to a scoreless draw.
Dillon. 7; Walsh. 0
Dillon Hall became a serious conten-dei- for the western division championship last week by upsetting Walsh Hall, 7-0. The wet turf and strong forward walls prevented scoring threats on both sides as the two squads fought on even terms in the first half. In the third quarter, however, Dillon unveiled a potent passing attack to turn the tide of battle. Quarterback Jack McMahon completed two passes to Sam Solomon to advance the Dillonites from their own 25 yard line to the Walsh 10-yard stripe. Several plays later, Leo Eikmeyer, Dillon’s fleetfooted halfback, swept around end to score the only touchdown of the game. McMahon converted for the extra point.
Badin. 0; Alumni, 0
Badin Hall, hampered by a muddy field and strong winds, was held to a scoreless tie by an underdog Alumni eleven. The Badinites threatened late in the first half, but their attack was checked on the 2-yard line by a stubborn Alumni line.
Zahm, 12; Breen-Phillips, 0
Zahm Hall came through with its third victory of the season, this time over the light, inexperienced Breen-Phillips eleven by the score of 12-0. Bob Welch led the Zahmites by scoring both touchdowns in the first quarter. Bob scored on a sixty-yard punt return, and also on a fifteen-yard pass from Barrett, Zahm’s quarterback. Ray Loy missed both attempts for conversion. Little Don Powers stood out for the Breen-Phillips squad, but was unable to score against the strong Zahm defense.
Morrissey, 0; Lyons, 0
Morrissey Hall’s cellar-dwellers held in tow a highly favored Lyons squad in the upset of the season, as the two teams fought to a scoreless tie. The Ly-onites were unable to pile up appreciable yardage against the strong Morrissey line which was led by tackle Jim Ford. Morrissey drove to the Lyons 20-yard line late in the second quarter, but was prevented from scoring by the stalwart defensive efforts of end Tom Mus-catello and tackle “Boo” Fanning. Lyons was hampered by injuries to halfbacks
Paul Lane, Joe Fahey, and fullback Tom Hanifin.
STANDINGS Eastern Division				
Cavanaugh Zahm 			W 	 4 	 3	L 0 1	T 0 0	Pct. 1.000 .750
St. Ed’s --		 1	2	1	.333
Farley 			 1	2	1	.333
Off-Campus		 0	1	1	.000
Breen-Phillips 	 0 Western Division		3	0	.000
	W	L	T	Pct.
Lyons 			 3	0	1	1.000
Dillon 			 2	1	1	.667
Badin 		2	1	1	.667
Walsh 		2	2	o-	.500
Alumni 			 0	2	2	.000
Morrissey		 0	3	1	.000
7 Lettermen Back As Fencers Practice
With seven of nine lettermen returning, the fencing team under the direction of Coach Herb Melton has begun training for tis opening meet some time in January. Because of the war-time lapse most of the squad was inexperienced last year and so the team is hoping to improve upon their four won, three lost record of a year ago. Returning monogram winners include Captain-elect Lou Burns, Bob Bosler, Bob Schlosser, Mike Di Cicco, Pete Gross, Jim Jansen, and Ralph Witucki. About fifteen other men are trying to win a place on the varsity team.
A definite schedule has not as yet been arranged, but tentative plans call for meets with Chicago, Illinois, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Ohio State, Illinois Tech, Detroit, and Cincinnati. The squad’s performance in these meets will determine whether or not it will compete in the National Collegiates at Annapolis in April.
Assisting Coach Melton with the fencers is Lou Peck of the ’42 team who is unable to compete because of leg wounds suffered in Germany while serving with the paratroops.
Coach Melton has announced that a call for freshman candidates will be made in the near future.—Bill Kupfer
17
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Prior to the Army game Terry Brennan was always referred to as Notre Dame’s “dependable” back. Never- particularly spectacular, Brennan was the workhorse of the 1946 national cham
pions, carrying for 329 yards in 74 trips.
This year, too, he has carried more than any lad on the team. In all, Terry has toted 64 times for 265 yards and an average of 4.1 yards a crack.
In the 1946 Army game, as in this year’s battle, Terry was N o t r e Dame’s best offensive back. He pick
ed up 69 yards from scrimmage against
Blanchard, Davis, Tucker & Co., more than any other back on th'- fi»ld. His 7'/ yards in last week’s contest topped Mike
Swistowicz by one.
The thing that made newsmen drop the dependable tag on Brennan and affix such adjectives as “sensational, clever, speedy, shifty,” and a host of other praises was his 95 yard runback of Army’s opening kickoff. This is the first such kickoff runback in Notre Dame football records since George Melinko-vich rambled 98 yards on a similar play against Northwestern in 1932.
That Brennan’s brilliant gallop should come against Army and on the game’s opening play seems more bizarre than anything Hollywood could dream up.
One department in which Notre Dame has not been improving from week to week is that of the punt return. Against Pittsburgh, Purdue and Nebraska the Irish did not try too hard to block the opposition’s punts, but they were content to fall back and block so that McGee, Brennan or Gay could return 20 or 25 yards and nullify a fine kick. Against Iowa, Navy and Army, however, Leahy’s lads seem to have cast this method aside in favor of rushing the punter and trying to smother the boot. The results have not been too impressive.
Amid all the clamor for All-Americans Johnny Lu jack, George Connor, and Bill Fischer, one is likely to lose sight of perhaps the most dependable lineman in the Irish forward wall—one Zygmont Czarobski.
In 1943 Zig was overshadowed by Jim White; in 1946 it was George Connor who reaped all the praise for tackle play. But Mr. Czarobski was good enough to be a regular on both of those national championship clubs, and this year his performances have been better than either of those two previous years.
Far and away the most popular man on the team among the student body, Ziggy deserves a whale of a lot of credit for his tremendous job at right tackle this year.
Wildcats Await Irish
(Continued from Page 15)
of the three victories Northwestern has won in the 26 games they’ve played against the Irish. The other was a 20-0 clawing in 1940. Two battles in this series which began back in 1889 have also
ended in scoreless ties. Games were held-intermittently until 1929 when the series" became an annual affair played on a home-and-home basis. Notre Dame out-scoring the Wildcats 371-124 while piling up this impressive edge of 21 victories to 3, not forgetting the two ties.
Although the records are little short of hilarious, there isn’t anything comical about the Irish injury list which at midweek contained six inscriptions. Coy McGee has now acquired a sprained right ankle which gives him two and par- for the course. “Gaspipe” Urban had his nose flattened by a thoughtless Cadet, while Bed Sitko suffered a wrenched knee. The same villains fractured Larry Coutre’s rib, bruised Floyd Simmons’ shoulder and tore one of Marty Wendell’s hip muscles.
The Wildcats are reportedly in top-fettle despite their deplorable prone po-® sition in the Big Nine cellar. Alex Sarkisian has recovered sufficiently from a broken arm suffered shortly after practice opened this fall to resume his pivot post. Some rumors have the swarthy center many pounds overweight, but his presence will bolster the alumni’s morale if nothing else. Frank Aschen-brenner, formerly of Marquette; Art Murakowski, one of the conference’s leading scorers; Tom Worthington, of basketball and baseball fame, and Jim Farrar, who shares quarterback duties with Don Burson, give the home team a fair to middling backfield. Nonetheless, it’s still pretty difficult to score without a line, and the 23 touchdowns racked up by their opponents doesn’t say much for the Wildcat defenders. Still, it’s one of those tradition-laden clashes and a Northwestern victory would more than insure Bob Voigts of a very successful^— season.
PARAMOUNT QUESTION: WHICH WAY TO GO?
Larry Coutre deliberates over an opening while Bill Wightkin cuts an Army tackler down. Others in picture: Henry (63), Trent (80), Bryant (73), and Strohmeyer (60).
THAT BRENNAN GUY'S ON THE LOOSE AGAIN
Terry Brennan gallops around Army's end safe from the reach of Bob Lunn as Jim Martin moves Bill Yeoman out of the play. Others in picture: Henry (63), Walsh (46), 4 Steffy (61) and Lujack (32).
18
•INTRODUCING...
By TOM McNALLY
Last spring Sid Luckman looked over the assembled quarterback talent on Cartier Field and stated flatly that any one of the first four quarterbacks could be first string at practically any other college. Exactly what the ex-Columbia wizard had in mind was brought out to his own embarrassment in the All Star game when George Ratterman made him look like a doddering old man. But it was left to Frank Tripucka to put the clincher to Sid’s words by his outstanding quarterbacking this season.
In addition to flawless field generalship, statistics up to the Army game .showed that “Trip” had punted 16 times for an average of 37.3 per boot. But it was his passing that left the opponents goggle-eyed. In 29 tries he had completed 20 passes for 314 yards and a .690 percentage and had thrown for two touchdowns. All this from a man who tossed just five passes all last year!
Reference to “Trip’s” passing calls to mind that his first exploit at Notre Dame was in that department, when the B squad of 1945 met the Miami University varsity. The story of that fabulous game has grown with the years. “Trip” and his fellow B squadders had spent the first days of practice on the hamburger squad scrimmaging against the first two teams. On Wednesday they heard that the game had been scheduled: on Thursday the list of players making the trip was put up; and on Friday they left. Never had the team run an offensive play together so their running at-dack was stymied by confusion and disorganization. “Trip” took to the air and passed all during the first half. At halftime Coach Kline patted him on the back, told him he was doing fine and instructed him to “keep pitching.” Frank took him at his word! He doubts now if he threw more than 35 passes all afternoon, but wild-eyed unbelievers swear the number was closer to 75 which would establish some sort of record. The crowning blow, however, was that he had two touchdown passes called back, and the final score was 13-0 against them!
As might be expected, Coach Devore heard of the Miami proceedings and from that time on Frank went on every varsity trip. The policy paid off in the Tulane game when he threw a 21-yard touchdown pass to John Agnone, an incident which remained his greatest football thrill until this season.
At Bloomfield High in New Jersey ^‘Trip” was outstanding in three sports, nle won three letters apiece in football, basketball and baseball and was captain

of the baseball and basketball teams in his junior and senior years. “Trip” also won all-state selection for two years in baseball and one year in football. He received his schooling in “T” formation fundamentals while playing halfback in
FRANK TRIPUCKA
From cover tactics to cover charge
Bloomfield’s modified “T,” but the more intricate aspects he learned right here.
What makes a “T” formation quarterback? Frank believes it is a poise and timing which can only be gained through experience. “For instance, we must learn the habits and type of play of every back we work with. Some backs start quicker, some slower than others. To have a good exchange we must hand that ball off at exactly the right moment or our deception and timing are lost and a poorly executed play results.” A prime jfactor in this deception is the art of “following a man in” with the ball, giving every impression that the faking man has the ball before completing the handoff to a second man or fading to pass.
Perfect deception and timing were vital factors in a play which Coach Leahy (who should know) called one of the finest of last season. Iowa was the victim and the action took place in the fourth period. Tripucka took the ball and faked beautifully to Larry Coutre who completed the fake by driving hard
towards the center head down. Then, with the entire line converging on Coutre, “Trip” lateraled to Bill Gompers running wide around end. When the Iowa line unpiled off Coutre, they had just enough time to catch a last minute glimpse of Gompers scampering into the end zone 25 yards away. Not a man had touched him!
After graduation in 1949 Frank plans to play pro football, but only for two years. Then he will put his Business Administration degree to work. What kind of business? Well, there’s only one night club in Frank’s section of New Jersey, and Frank has always wanted to run a night club ever since he was a kid. So, look out Billy Rose! If Frank Tripucka runs a night club like he runs the “T” formation, you’re in for competition indeed!
Seek Candidates for Spots On N.D. Billiard Teams
On November 19, an Intercollegiate National Billiard and Pocket Billiard Championship will begin, sponsored and conducted by the National Billiard Association of America. At the invitation of Charlie Peterson, billiard champ, who visited Notre Dame last year as a guest of the Blue Circle, Notre Dame will have two eight-man teams, one for three cushion billiard and one for pocket billiard.
Colleges and universities from all sections of the country are divided into four groups. Eliminations are scheduled within each group. In March the finals will decide the national champ.
Competition within each group will be held on each campus. A referee ana score-keeper control the matches and relay the scores to the Association in Chicago.
Father Sheedy is the official referee for our team. He will conduct a series of matches this week to pick the 16 men for the team. All matches will be held in the Student Recreation Room under Washington Hall. Anyone who is inters ested may enter these matches by reporting to the desk in the rec room. The final matches are scheduled for Thursday and Friday.
LAST CHANCE!
The sale of bids for the Sophomore Cotillion will dose November ,19. That date is the last chance upperclassmen will have to assure themselves of attending Notre Dame's greatest post-war dance.
19
By JOE CHENEY
Inflation hit a new high last week end when the Notre Dame-Army football programs sold for 50 cents instead of the usual 35 cents. The old story of supply and demand pops up even here on the campus of Notre Dame.
Students have been heard to complain about the hotels jumping their prices on football week ends. Many parents arrived for the game with a limited budget and the soaring prices left their pocketbooks limp.
Another unfortunate problem arose in the caf. Some of the parents, old grads and their wives, and Notre Dame rooters arrived about 1:30 Friday afternoon. Instead of someone looking ahead and making arrangements to keep the caf dinner line open all afternoon so that people could get something to eat, the chain was clicked and the caf food line was closed until 5 o’clock. It would have been much simpler to feed a straggler’s line than to cause all that confusion Friday. Some of the people had nothing to eat except breakfast until Friday evening. They couldn’t even buy a cup of coffee.
ALL-AMERICANS
It won’t be long before some AllAmerican selections hit the sport pages of newspapers and magazines. As we have noticed in previous years, players who made the All-American teams the year before and are still playing football will again be named whether theii- brand of ball is as good or not the following year.
Advance publicity makes an All-American. Newspapermen have a tendency to write about well-known players for the simple reason that these names make good reading. Most writers are lazy. Why should they pound out columns on virtual unknowns when publicity directors send out weekly (and sometimes daily) releases concerning the better known players?
I personally believe that if Johnny Lujack had been injured in our first game and not played the rest of the year he still would be rated the number one quarterback in the country on the majority of the All-American polls. Lujack has played All-American ball all year but there are plenty of exceptions.
One of the most under-rated backs in
20
the country is Terry Brennan. He has been first-string for the past three years and the work-horse of the Notre Dame backfield this year as well as last. He’ll be lucky to receive even honorable mention. The same story applies to Ziggy Czarobski and “Moose” Fischer. Neither received any advance publicity and will probably be overlooked by the selectors.
Ziggy and “Moose” Fischer could play first-string with any professional team in the country. Captain George Connor, an unanimous All-American tackle last season, has been hampered with a bad ankle. He has played good ball all season but it hasn’t been as outstanding as last year, mainly because of his ankle.
What I’m driving at is this: Unless the selectors and press association voters take the time to think twice before they pick a name for each position, the AllAmerican selections will go to the players who received the most advance publicity during the early fall. If that’s all there is to it, being named an All-American is strictly for the early birds.
PREDICTION:
Notre Dame, 34; Northwestern, 0.
Irish Quintet Faces 24-Game Season
According to the 1947-48 basketball schedule released by Frank W. Leahy, Director of Athletics, the Irish courtmen will play twenty-four games, eight of which will be at home.
Five new teams have been added to . the schedule. They include: Denver, Kansas, Pennsylvania and Georgetown. The top attraction on the home card will probably be the Kentucky game. Coach Bupp and his Wildcats trounced the Irish at Louisville last year, but on the local floor the Krausemen are seldom beaten.
Assistant Coach Tom Brennan reports that this season should be much tougher than the one the Irish faced last winter. Indiana State lost only four games last season—one to St. John’s of New York by three points, and another to Purdue by four. Their entire team was made up of freshmen, and, of course, they all are back. DePaul, sparked by George Mi-kan’s “little” brother Eddie (6' 6"), consistently turns out fine squads, as does Illinois. With Churck Tourek back at Northwestern, the Wildcats are a cinch to be up when they meet Notre Dame in the Chicago Stadium. New York University and Marquette have always been a jinx to our hardwood five. It isn’t too
hard to understand Coach Brennan’s pessimism.	4
Kevin O’Shea has seen duty in the Varsity inter-squad scrimmages this week, and his knees have been holding up well. The team has been practicing for four weeks, and the men seem to be shaping up well.
Freshman Coach Tom Foley has begun tryouts for his squad this week. Coach Foley has been observing the men in groups of fifteen, in order to give each man the best chance to show his ability. By the end of the coming week, he hopes to have trimmed the squad down to normal size. The Frosh will practice in the Drill Hall as soon as arrangements are completed. A few of the outstanding players in this week’s workouts were Neil Feichtal, Marty O’Connor, Dan Bagley, and John Rohrbach.
Workmen have been revising the light% ing system of the gym during the past week, in hopes of adding to the efficiency of the netmen.
The 1947-48 schedule follows:
Dec. 6—Indiana State at Notre Dame 8—Notre Dame at Illinois
13—Notre Dame vs. Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
Jan. 1—Notre Dame vs. Indiana at Indianapolis
2—Notre Dame vs. Purdue at Indianapolis
5—Georgetown at Notre Dame
7—Butler University at Notre Dame
12—DePaul at Notre Dame
17—Notre Dame at St. Louis University
20—Notre Dame at Denver University
23—Notre Dame at Kansas University
24—Notre Dame vs. Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
Feb. 2—Kentucky at Notre Dame
4—Notre Dame at Butler University
5—Notre Dame at Detroit University
9—St. Louis University at Notre Dame *7.
14—Notre Dame vs. DePatd at Chicago Stadium
17—Notre Dame at Michigan State
24—Michigan State at Notre Dame
25—Marquette at Notre Dame
28—Notre Dame at Canisius
Mar. 1—Notre Dame vs. N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden
3—Notre Dame at Pennsylvania
6—Notre Dame at Marquette
Billfolders Beware: Spurious
Sawbucks Loose on Campus
Ah, lads, there’s bad news tonight!
Pull that solitary sawbuck out of your wallet, polish up youi‘ spectacles, and weep. Why? because it may be a phoney!
According to the American Trust Company in yonder metropolis, “a number of” counterfeit ten-dollar bills seem to have mysteriously found their way into the environs of South Bend and, vicinity amid the rush and hustle the recent Army game week end. It is
rumored that nine or more bogus bills Ihave been picked up, and that quite a few others are still at large.
But don’t lose your heads, men—that is, of course, unless your greenbacks happen to have serial numbers G5926-7442C or G04451735B (this last one is also marked E388), and the area in front of the Treasury Building on the reverse side appears to be too heavily shaded, and the numerals in the upper corners on the obverse side seem to be somewhat close to the margins, AND the lines of shading between the numerals and the margins in the same upper corners are indistinct! If not, you’ve got no worries.
Oh, by the way, in case your happy-paper DOES look like this, don’t get any funny ideas, bub! The FBI is on the case.—Bill Bradley
Cavanaugh Duo Wins Hall Debating Title
Tom Ninneman and Gregory Shinert, of Cavanaugh Hall, are the newly acclaimed campus debating champions, by virtue of a decision over Breen-Phillips’ representatives Tuesday night in the Law Auditorium on the topic of federal world government. As the winners of the interhall debate tournament, each received a Notre Dame blanket with his name inscribed upon it.
Ninneman is a sophomore transfer student from St. Norbert’s College, West De Pere, Wisconsin. He had four years experience on the debating team at Tomah, Wisconsin, where he was named Northwest argumentation champion in his senior year. Shinert, a junior from ^Pharleston, Arkansas, is a total newcomer to the field.
Breen-Phillips was represented in the final round by Lou Duerinck, of Riverside, Illinois, and Quintin Marlow, of San Antonio, Texas.
After the conclusion of the interhall tourney, Professor Leonard Sommer announced the tentative varsity team for the coming season. This season’s squad will probably be composed of Frank Finn, Tim Kelley and Jim Baymer, of last year’s national championship team, Tom Ninneman, University co-champ, and eight freshmen, including Joe Shelley, Will Dixon, Will Carey, Walton Collins, Lou Duerinck, Quintin Marlow, Joe Dukert and Larry Gilling.
First on the schedule of exhibition debates will be held next Monday at 2:30 p.m., before the Progress club in South Bend. Frank Finn and Quin Marlow Aill uphold the world government resolution against Will Carey and Will Dixon.—Joe Dukert
Noted Chemist to Lecture on Nieuwland
Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, of Berkeley, Calif., one of America’s foremost experts on nuclear energy, will deliver the 1947 Nieuwland Lectures in Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday,
Dr. Seaborg, recipient of the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry for 1947, is Director of Chemistry in the Radiation Laboratories at the University of California. He has achieved distinction as co-discoverer of three of the four known elements of atomic weight greater than uranium. One of the latter was plutonium which was used in the production of the atomic bomb. Dr. Seaborg has also discovered two new elements, americum and curium.
The Nieuwland Memorial Lecture Series was established to honor the memory of the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, c.s.c., Notre Dame’s world-famous priestscientist who conducted research at Notre Dame which led to the discovery of the basic formula for synthetic rubber.
The lectures, to be held nightly in the Law Building Auditorium on the Notre Dame campus, are open to Notre Dame students and members of the American Chemical Society in the South Bend area especially are invited to attend.
DaDamio Takes Frosh Cross Country Title
Tony DaDamio, who previously had won an intra-squad contest between the varsity B team and the freshman cross country squad last Wednesday, took the freshman harrier title covering the two-mile course which was swept by rain and stiff wind in 10:19.
Lou Lepry took second, Vai Muscato third, Voller fourth, McCarthy fifth, Maguire sixth, and Hausennauer seventh. Seven medals were awarded to the group which has been coached by John Lyons, ace Irish miler. The fledglings may have one more contest, a return match with the Varsity B squad, sometime during the next two weeks.
The other finishers in the title run were Prahinski, Komoner, Simpson and McDermott.
, Cadets Come .
(Continued from Page 13)
While not exactly choking with emotion and still able to speak, his thanks for the hospitality were sincere and high. As Cadet Hank Stelling of San Francisco put it: “We have received excellent treatment ever since we got off the train.
When we marched into the Stadium and got a hand from the N.D. student section we felt a lot better about coming. I only hope some day the corps can pay you back.”
“We’ve been treated fine,” said another.
But perhaps the finest compliment was paid by a Cadet who saw a Scholastic reporter asking questions, walked over and said: “You can be proud to be a part of this student body. They have been swell. It certainly changes my opinion of this place.”
The visitors thought there was a big difference between the studies here and at the Point and the way they are taught. One, who wouldn’t be named, went so far as to say the only thing the Academy lacked was “education”; others just thought the emphasis on the military studies at W. P. was the only basic difference. Another took violent exception to any mention of his school as a “glorified OCS.” “I don’t know how anyone can say that,” he said, “especially in the past few years when new cultural courses have been introduced. The Point turns out a man capable in almost any field.”
As more and more of the Kaydets were interviewed, it seemed apparent that marching maneuvers in the Stadium and N.D. cheers weren’t the only things the soldiers had been drilled on in preparation for the invasion of the West. Scholastic reporters received a stock, unsmiling “No comment” answer to any question or mention of the resumption of athletic relationships between the schools. There wasn’t one Cadet who would venture a word on the subject.
The big, round guy in front of the mike was telling the Kaydets that the buses were outside to bring their dates and themselves back to St. Mary’s and the siding. The train was leaiving at 11:40. The Drill Hall was jammed. It had been a great dance, a great tribute to a great victory, a great series. The Kay det had enjoyed himself. Cadet John J. Nuclen of Washington, D. C., put it into words. “It’s a very nice dance; the girls have been wonderful to us, as have all the N.D. students. Thanks for everything.”
And Cadet Rufus Halmon of Memphis, Tenn., said, “It’s a swell dance, a lot like our hops back at the Point, but they are formal. Everyone’s been swell.” So the dance had been fun for both sides, and, when they called up a guy named Brennan to the bandstand, the soldiers in grey were cheering with the rest of them. Later they were leaving with everyone giving them a nice hand and hoping to see them again, for it had been nice having them and nice knowing them.
21
Trailer Life Crammed, Crowded, Confused;
"Scholastic" Reporter Settles for Cavanaugh
Last week upon learning from a mutual friend that an old Navy buddy, Warren Liechty from Indianapolis, was suffering in AB and at present holed up in Pete’s Trailer Camp, we decided to hustle right out and renew old times. Following very vague instructions we rode the Michigan Street bus to the end of the line, shot the sun, walked seventenths of a mile south, counted three trailers west and two north, and knocked two long and one short on the slate grey door. The door opened to reveal our friend clad in dungarees.
“How are you, old man?” we said reservedly.
“Gory!” he screamed, vaulting through the door and carrying us to the ground.
Picking ourselves up we entered to find the 7x12 cave filled with bunK beds, an icebox, a cook stove, some storage shelves, and a card table with a radio blasting out jazz resting among a litter of papers. We took off our coat and went to hang it in the curtained closet.
“Be careful. It’s a little crowded,” we were warned, too late to stop several dirty shirts, an overcoat, and one galosh from exploding at us.
Having crammed everything back, reminisced sufficiently, and accepted a glass of milk, we decided to draw him out on life in a trailer.
“What are you doing here?” we subtle-ly queried.
Flopping in a chair he cracked wide open. “Oh, I’m here to beat the HCL. This way I about break even on the GI Bill.”
“Where did you get the trailer?” we slyly stuck in.
“I built it myself in my own back yard last fall,” he babbled on. “Only worked half a day and got done in four months.”
“How?” we ejaculated with that with-your-own-lily-white-hands smirk on our face.
“It wasn’t too bad after I got the lumber,” he responded oblivious to our smirking. “That was the hardest. I got the wheels and frame out of a junk yard. The whole thing cost about $600. Of course, I didn’t have all the right tools and managed to smash several thumbs in the deal, but—”
At this point there was much rapping on the door. Warren opened it and jumped back as five or six (they moved around so much) children streamed in shrilling, “Tell us a story. Tell us a story!”
By TOM GORMAN
“That’s just one of those things,” While the bears went through their trials and tribulations and Jack rescued the hen who laid golden eggs, we idly thought of the pitiful painful plight of the sardine. Then several weary parents showed up to announce bedtime for the little tikes, and once more we inhaled oxygen.
TRAILER-RESIDENT LIECHTY "... really not so bad"
“So that’s life in a trailer,” we snickered quaffing more milk.
“It’s really not so bad. Last winter I didn’t have the ice box and all the insulation wasn’t in. Boy, was it cold in here at six in the morning. But this summer I fixed that and next summer I am going to put screens in. I got some Venetian blinds on the way, too.”
Suddenly all the lights went out. A man thumped on the door and shouted, “We blew a fuse.”
Warren got a flash and checked his fuses which were still banging in there like mad. We piled out to see what the matter was. A stoutish man was swaying precariously on a step ladder and sticking a plug into several sockets slowly dimming the entire Camp. Finally after a little induction they decided that the plug was no good. A red haired woman brought up some fuses and after much fumbling (during which one man
almost electrocuted himself) we agairi^-had light.	•	‘
But Warren merely shrugged.
He offered us a ride so we climbed into the racy super-deluxe Ford convertible, circa ’28 which was stashed in front, of the trailer. As we headed for school Warren said, “How about helping me lay some linoleum Saturday.”
“We’ll think about it,” we answered while pondering that life in a trailermight be cheap but it was definitely hectic. Just a little too rich for our blood, we concluded, settling for our room in Cavanaugh.
Architects' Open House Attracts Many Visitors
As a part of the Notre Dame Homecoming festivities last Saturday the^. Architects’ club threw its doors open to' 2500 guests, who viewed the first of a series of student conducted exhibits. Included on the guest register, were names of visitors from 30 states of the Union, and the four foreign countries of Germany, Japan, China and Mexico. The entire display was work completed by students in local and national competitions, including those in conjunction with the Beaux-Arts Institute.
This unique function of the Architects’ Club was initiated by Chase Black, senior architectural engineer, and member of the University Band. He was assisted by Wayne Smith, club prexy, Lido Shiamanna, and Joe Kruyer. Soon to come as a part of the club’s cultural program for the current year will be an educational movie and a display on different methods of modern and contemporary construction in design.
Scott, Prominent L. A. Lawyer, To Lecture Here Nov. 24
Returning to Notre Dame on November 24, to address the student body in Washington Hall will be the Honorable Joseph Scott, K.S.G., prominent Los Angeles lawyer and recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1918. The subject of his address will be “The Road Ahead.”
Students who heard Scott last year will agree that this father of three Notre Dame alumni delights his audiences with the dynamic, inspirational qualities of his addresses. He thumps out his eloquence with such force, such homespun honesty and disregard for conventionalities that the first impression he gives is that of a breezy Westerner fresh from his gold diggings. But as the impact of his speech intensifies, the audienc^ realizes that here is really one of the ' great orators of all time. ’
22
Mus,c * Books > Rddio
APOLOGIA PRO BELA BARTOK .. .
Resemblances between Bela Bartok and Beethoven may be coincidental, yet they do exist. Both men wrote music that tended toward the radical, and both have suffered the scorn of hasty critics. In the early nineteenth century, Beethoven’s music, which we now accept so readily as great, was panned by authoritative critics in the following manner, “The overture (Leonore) displeases almost completely because of its incessant dissonances and overloaded whirring of the violins.” Or even worse, “. . . never has such incoherent, shrill, confused, earshocking music been written. The most cutting dissonances follow each other in really horrible harmony.” These quotes could easily have been said of Bartok in the early twentieth century, but like Beethoven, Bartok is at last being accepted as a conservative composer of merit. You cannot drink in his music as you would the facile flowing melodies of Brahms. But if you listen to Bartok more than once the dissonance will lose its harshness. You will perceive artful Hungarian folk - music and powerful, thrusting themes, which are perhaps a direct reflection of Beethoven himself.
To get acquainted with Bartok, do not start with his profound chamber music. (Rather, investigate his concertos for violin or piano. Vox has recently issued two twelve-inch recordings of Bartok’s piano music. They include tunes from his “Collection for Children,” “Evening in Transylvania,” and “Bear- Dance.” Record surface clear. Good performance by the composer.
NELLIE LUTCHER A LA HILLBILLY ...
I With her “giving-all-she’s-got” vocalizing, Nellie Lutcher has been riding high on the skyrocket of popularity via Capitol discs. Hei’ tinkling-style piano is unimpressive and perhaps sloppy, but her' vocal acrobatics and pure feeling may take you right with her. Her latest is the suggestive “You Better Watch Yourself, Bub,” backed by “My Mother’s Eyes,” but we still prefer her earlier vigorous “Hurry On Down” and ^1‘The Lady’s in Love with You.” The ^ast named is superior because it does not depend completely on novelty or wild
whoopee, but shows a touch of restraint— just a slight touch. Nellie Lutcher’ possesses an utter control of her voice that borders on the phenomenal and her phrasing is novel, to put it mildly. However, many will find too much repetition and will not become “real gone guys.” Perhaps it is heresy, but we note a tinge of “hillbilly” style in her j azzed-up offerings, especially when she employs long phrasing runs and a semi-nasal tone. Ever hear of a
folk-tune balladeer named Burl Ives?
. . . Anyway we like Nellie a lot.
T. D. GOOD: TUNE N. G....
Tommy Dorsey has had an enviable string of consistently well-done recordings, and on the Victor released “L L L A” the orchestra and vocalists again turn in a fine performance. But just what they are performing seems to escape us. It seems like a mumbojumbo of letters and names of cities in California, set to some unimpressive music which is supposedly a tribute to Los Angeles. You get some well-integrated musicianship working with some sub-normal material.
KOUSSEVITSKY REVIVES PAVANNE...
On a Victor Red Seal recording, Serge Koussevitsky and the Boston Symphony have restored Maurice Ravel’s “Pavanne for a Dead Princess” to its rightful status after it had suffered a few years back from being a short-lived pop tune called “The Lamp is Low.” The work is deep, fluid and melodic. Granted some may find it too mournful, but we contend the fine loveliness will overshadow all else. All else, that is, except the few scratchy spots on the record. The surface is fair; performance excellent.—Tom Hanifin
Burble Resurrected After Long Absence
Displaying an amazing amount of initiative and aggressiveness, students of the Aeronautical Department have heaped more work on their already burdened backs in assuming the task of reviving the Burble. Although the last appearance of the Aero monthly was two and one-half years ago, Ernest J. Tursich has started the paper anew and the sheet seems in full swing.
The aeronautical “new look” is the biggest feature of the Burble, but the staff also acts as a catalyst for the exchange of ideas between present-day students and those already employed in the aviation world.
In their policy editorial the editors state, “It is also our purpose to introduce present students to the alumni in an effort to help the coming graduates to find a place in the ever-expanding industry through their alumni brethren . . . it is the aim of the Burble to unite the Aero students now on campus with a common denominator outside of class, and to stimulate their aggressive participation in the activities of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences.”
The staff includes Gerald F. Gass, Jr., associate editor, Leo J. Vetter, feature editor. Walter M. Marut, circulation, John E. Cronin, Henry L. Kochman, William B. Sherman, Leonard E. Stitt, Harry M. Trausch, and William V. Turner. Mr. Frank N. M. Brown acts as a faculty sponsor.
Contributions may be mailed or delivered to the Burble, Dept, of Aeronautical Engineering, Notre Dame,. Indiana, or to The Editor, 342 Lyons Hall.
—Joe Herrington
Central Collegiate
(Continued from Page 15) Murphy, who last Saturday won the Indiana State Championship over a four-mile course at Bloomington, Cornie Styers, Jim Kittell, Jim Kelly, Bill Leonard, Lou Tracy and Bob Mitchell.
Notre Dame won its sixth consecutive victory last Saturday by taking the Indiana State intercollegiate title with 33 points. Indiana and Purdue fought a close battle for second, with the Hoosiers edging the Boilermakers, 60 to 61. Last week’s contest was the first this year in which the Irish hava not had their five scorers in the first eight positions. It required 14 places for N.D. scorers at Bloomington.—Jim Howard
23
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
JESSE HARPER AND COACH LEAHY A spectator — not a speaker
Visitors of Distinction
Last Saturday afternoon the greatest sports attraction of the current football season, the grand finale of the glorious series of Army-Notre Dame football games, drew nearly sixty thousand people to the Notre Dame Stadium to witness the much ballyhooed contest. Among the many celebrities who saw the Fighting Irish march triumphantly to a 27-7 victory over the West Pointers was the Honorable JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, of New York City, former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, and a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame. . . . PA.T O’BRIEN, the familiar motion picture star, who is
PAT O BRIEN AND GEN. KENNEY Screen stars and Silver stars
known on the Notre Dame campus for the very inspiring part he played in the Hollywood feature p i c t u r e, “Knute Rockne, All-American,” the story of the Rock’s life as player and coach at Notre Dame. Mr. O’Brien attended the game with MRS. BONNIE SKILES ROCKNE and BILL ROCKNE, wife and son of the great coach. . . . ; and GRANTLAND RICE, the venerable “Dean of American sports writers,” who is credited with bestowing upon Messrs. MILLER, CROWLEY, LAYDEN and STUHLDREHER the immortal name of the Four Horsemen which comes from his famous description of the Army-Notre Dame game back in 1924. Mr. Rice was one of the guest speakers at the Army game pep rally held Friday night in the field
house. . . . Among other notabes at “the game of the year” were General George C. Kenney, Commanding General of the Strategic Air Command, who was all for the resumption of the rivalry between the two teams as soon as possible; Mr. Thomas Braniff, president of Braniff International Airways, who would like to see Notre Dame play either Texas or SMU in the Cotton Bowl; Mr. Harvey Firestone; his host, Mr. H. S. Vance, Chairman of the board of Studebaker; and Bill Veeck, president of the Cleveland Indians. C. C. CARTER, roving reporter of the Scholastic labored industriously during the game Saturday to ’ obtain interviews with these prominent personages. . . .
Game guests of the REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., University president, were Maj Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, superintendent of West Point, and Brig. Gen. Burdett Fitch, assistant director of the Military Procurement Division of the War Department. Rumor has it that nothing was said about resumption of the Irish-Army grid series.
An unexpected speaker at the pep rally turned up in the person of silver-thatched JESSE HARPER, the Notre Dame coach under whom the Army series was inaugurated back in 1913. Called out of the immense audience by Coach Leahy, Harper quipped about the distance he had travelled to see a ball game and not to speak; he closed by jus-j*^ tifying downtown quarterbacks who, he ' said, keep modern collegiate coaches in the higher pay brackets.
GEN. FITCH. PRESIDENT CAVANAUGH AND GEN. TAYLOR No talk of resumption
Appointments & Opinions
Professor of Philosophy DR. YVES SIMON, of Notre Dame will participate in a panel discussion at the second session of the Institute for Religious and Social Studies to be held Tuesday (Nov. 18) at the Hotel Bismarck in Chicago. Dr. Simon, noted author and a native of Cherbourg, France will present the Catholic view on the subject of “Natural Law — Natural Rights.”
OLIVER SMALLEY, President of the Meehanite Metal Corporation in New .Rochelle, N. Y., and one of the
leading metal experts of the world, has
been named to the Advisory Council for^n Science and Engineering at the Univer- 51
sity of Notre Dame, it was announced
24
GRANTLAND RICE Sans Four Horsemen
recently by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame . . .
Help-Mates
For those of you who are addicted to the weekly Photoquiz spreads in Look magazine, here is an assist for the fifteenth question in the new issue which was released this past Tuesday. The gentleman in the familiar baseball cap is none other than FRANK LEAHY, our own inimitable head coach . . .
And in the current (November, 1947) ^issue of Sportfolio magazine there is an article by Tommy Devine of the Detroit Free Press concerning the so-called “little men” behind the Notre Dame championship football scene, Ticket Manager BOB CAHILL, Business Manager of Athletics HERB JONES, Equipment Manager JACK McALLISTER, and Trainer HUGHIE BURNS. Much of the material for the article was collected from information published in the Scholastic last year ...
It was learned recently that TOM O’GRADY of Zahm Hall and Stanford, Connecticut, had become engaged to Miss Bobbie Hickey, who also hails from the same town. A definite date for the marriage has not been decided upon. . . .
The Changing Tide
Typical of the swiftly changing emotions of the women in our lives are the following two telegrams just two hours
apart last Friday by HARRY J. QUINN, of Chicago, a student in the Department of Architecture:
Chicago 7Nov47	8:57 a.m.
“DEAR HARRY CHECK MAILED WEDNESDAY NO TICKETS YET.
NANCY” and then its counterpart:
Chicago 7Nov47
10:57 a.m.
“DARLING TICKETS ARRIVED OK THANKS LOADS LOVE NANCY”
St. Mary’s College, and its fashionable lady-like student body found the tables turned at week’s end. Instead of complaints and barbs, plaudits were showered upon the school for the sharp squad of women mustered to escort West Point Cadets to the victory dance. Said Cadet CHARLES MCGEE: (whose date was blonde, attractive MARGUERITE CHENAL) “I’ve never signed up on the blind date list before, but if my date tonight is any criterion of what is to come, my name will be on every list from here on.”
MISS CHENAL AND CADET McGEE Surprised?
Geographical Clubs
All geographical clubs should send a representative to the Dome office (in the basement of Walsh Hall) on Wednesday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p. m. The purpose of the meeting will be to set dates for the clubs to have their Dome pictures taken. A similar meeting was held last Wednesday. Not too many clubs showed up. We are informed that all clubs not represented at this meeting will be considered as not interested in having their club picture in this year’s Dome. A dollar deposit will be required to insure the club’s presence at the picture “sitting.”
The following clubs, considered as campus organizations, are al-
ready scheduled:
Nov. 17—N. D. Lawyer —. 12:30 Inter-American Affairs ................. 12:45
Nov. 18—Blue Circle ___ 12:30
Y. C . S....... 12:45
Nov. 19—NFCCS ........  12:30
Radio Club_______ 12:45
Nov. 20—Aesculapians .. 12:30
Flying Irish .. 12:45
Nov. 21—Law Club ______ 12:30
All pictures will be taken at the Rockne Memorial Building, rain or shine.
NSA Student Forum Next Thursday Night
The National Student Association will hold a student forum on Thursday, November 20, at 7:30 p. m. in the Engineering Auditorium, according to an announcement this week by Jack Murphy.
At the meeting there will be a detailed report on the Constitutional Convention which was held last summer at the University of Wisconsin, and plans will be made to affiliate officially with the association. All campus club presidents have been requested to attend with at least two members of their clubs.
Among other plans of the NSA is the conduct of study tours next summer both in this country and abroad.
Each tour in the United States will be composed of 20 students, 10 foreign and 10 American. Duration of the trips will vary between two and six weeks, depending upon the distance to be traveled. Arrangements will be made for the lodging of students and travel will be by either family car or school transportation wherever* possible. Regional chairmen and local NSA representatives are expected to draw up outlines of possible tours of their region, including stops at important industrial, mining, educational, farming and cosmopolitan centers.	.
25
Hermens Warns of Industrial Closings
Reminding his audience that “Europe is in the throes of a political crisis, and Russian intervention can make this crisis the beginning of a fateful conflict any time the masters of the Kremlin should :hoose to do so,” Dr. F. A. Hermens, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, in an address Nov. 6 before the International Relations Club, stated that the Marshall plan is our only countermove possible.
Dr. Hermens declared, “The Marshall plan can be made ineffective by sabotage as well as by insufficient or belated appropriations. Some branches of the English and American governments are proceeding as if the sabotage of the Marshall plan were indeed their objective. Six hundred and eighty-five plants are to be dismantled in the English and American zones of Germany, plus 170 plants in the French zone.”
The Notre Dame professor further stressed the fact that the factories being destroyed are the most modern. In addition to retarding European reconstruction, such sabotage gives Soviet demagogues a golden opportunity to turn the German workers against those who have given the orders.—Lawrence S. Connor.
The Windy City (Continued from Page 14) the double entendre shouldn’t miss the inimitable Maurice Chevalier in his one-man show at the Erlanger. "All Gaul Is Divided” is scrimmaging at the Civic, before braving the New York critics. This comedy received such an ovation, when it was tried at the Catholic University last year, that it has been given a professional production. As we said, ducats for these will be hard to find, but an attempt at it might prove successful.
These plays all break in plenty of time to get to the Victory Dance. If you decide to go to it still later, then there are many nightspots in which to pass away the interim. Chez Paree is nice (and expensive). The Empire Room at the Palmer House and the College Inn (the cradle of swing) and Panther Room are also good spots to visit. But be sure that that leather envelope in your back pocket is crammed with some counterfeiter’s samples before you start “clubbing.”
Even the haughtiest high brow knows that Chi was the foster father of jazz. Many jive joints are still open in the town, with special emphasis on the Jump Town, Ray Doll and the Club Silhouette. All those looking for some atmosphere and especially the sincere reet boys will enjoy and appreciate these spots.
26
There are so many hotels in town that there won’t be any sack-space problem for Saturday evening; and come Sunday a. m. Holy Name Cathedral, the largest church in Chicago, is at State and Chicago Streets.
If there’s still some change jingling in the pocket on Sunday then you have your choice of some sightseeing or a football game in the afternoon. The Chicago Bears are playing the Green Bay Packers at Wrigley Field while the Chicago Cardinals take on the Detroit Lions in Comiskey Park. Both games start at 1:30.
For those interested in seeing the sights there are, among many others, Lincoln and Grant Parks, the Newberry Library, the Museum of Science and Industry, Buckingham Fountain and Bug
“ Van Hensen shirts
All the right people want to go places writh you and your Van Hensen Shirt. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, the figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Van Heusen Shirts. §3.25, §3.95, §4.50. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
house Square. The last mentioned is Chicago’s meeting place of free speech:;^ London has its Marble Arch and New York' has Columbus Circle. Bughouse Square could hold its own with both of them. Just drop around and listen to the agitated anarchists, socialists, et al, and see if you don’t agree with us.
You could go on for days and days and still never see all of Chicago. It is a vast city made up of many foreign colonies, each adding its bright national thread to produce one of the most colorful tapestries in America.
All who go tomorrow are bound to have a top-notch time and from the looks of things, Chicago will receive such a coat of red paint that natives will think Mrs. O’Leary’s cow is on the prowl again.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
TAKING THE "B" COURSE
The Story of Ralph Rhudy
At General Electric, Ralph Rhudy will tell you, the ABC’s are not so simple.
They're the letters designating thc . intensive Advanced Engineering Program courses by which the company
provides young engineers with instruction on a graduate level.
Ralph, a graduate of the University of Tennessee and a veteran with 3^ years’ service, has completed G.E.’s "A” Course and has been selected for the electromechanical “B” Course. As a ”B” student he will study ever more deeply the problems of such fields . of interest as vector analysis, thermodynamics, mechanics, and fluid flow.
While he studies, Ralph is concerned with another, larger problem: to find the phase of engineering in which he wants to specialize. He has been helped in making this decision b*r his participation in the company’s Rotating Engineering Program—especially set up to enable veterans to ’’rotate” through a
Ralph feels sure that this practical work, plus his studies, is giving him the best possible background for his engineering career.
For your copy of “Careers in the Electrical Industry,” write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
Working while he studies at General Electric, Ralph Rhudy has been assigned to design an actuator for the 50 MEV Betatron.
In the Navy he was Engineer Officer on the U.S.S. Charles J. Kimmel, saw action in the initial invasion of Luzon.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
Orders are Now being accepted for The Scholastic’s
FOOTBALL ISSUE
■	which will be off the press December 12
This issue carries a resume of ALL Notre Dame Games . . Pictures of the Players and Coaches . . . Game Shots . . . Biographies
Mail 50 cents (no stamps please) to
FOOTBALL ISSUE -	-	118 Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY SmviER LIBRARY-N3TRE DAMS, LOCAL
WESTERFIELD
ARTHUR GODFREY TIME / CBS EVERY DAY, MON. THRU FR[.
"bHEMBYTHE CARTON;
"smart smokers smoke ’em ano uke ’em
/T,	CHESTERFIELD 0JPPER CLUB
.	NBC TUES. & JOURS. NIGHTS
Ams bit chesterfields-they satisfy
tVMr/) CHESTERFIELD SUPPER CLUB NBC MON. WED. & FRI. NIGHTS
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Mites Tobacco Co.
>ALw^ MILDER 0 BETTER TASTING COOEER SMOKING^^^
WORLDS TOBACCOS