'■ Cbc
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCeQVASI-SSITIPeR- VICTVRVS- • VIVS -9VASI- CRAS-IMORITVRVS*
Vol. XLIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 26, 1910. No. 21.
The Spirit of Washington.*
George J. Finnigan, ’10.
A land that erstwhile spanned her hundredth year, America entones to all the world
A song of freemen, chanted bold and clear, The throb of her young heart. Her flag unfurled Flings to the breeze the ensign of the free,
That shows her pure and brave and high-idealed, True to each trust and just in policy.
Upon her white brow, there in strength revealed, Gleams bright the honor of each act well done. This spirit is thy spirit, Washington.
W^HIN a nation’s heart, in love revered, The spirit of a sire is deep-impressed, Beneath whose God-like influence is reared
The state. 'Tis he who fashions on her breast
The parent-stamp. And if her heart be true, With love-awakened zeal she will aspire That his rare virtues course her being through, And image there the spirit of her sire.
And so unto this land, thy cherished one, ' We look to see thy virtues, Washington.
Her young right arm is raised aloft to guard Her blood-bought freedom and her fair white name.
Nor recks she toil too great nor task too hard To hold intact her rights. And this her aim:
'	That never shall this nation bend below
An alien yoke, though every treasured life Should taste a thousand deaths against her foe.
Right is her might. In even' toil and strife
.	Her fearlessness reveals through each brave son
Thy soul’s undaunted valor, Washington.
But she is first in peace, though first in war.
The gems of amity that deck her . crown
Her rarest treasures are. Her sons abhor
Such clash of arms as win a vain renown.
The ways of peace are theirs. With golden chains Of honest friendship nations she has_ bound
Unto herself, for in her spirit reigns
The calm of God. The world must ever sound Her name in praise for peaceful conquests won, And praising her, will praise thee, Washington.
Although each day thy gifted life she lives, This day she crowns anew thy hallowed name, And begs her sons to swell its praise. She gives To thee unfeigned devotion, proud to claim Thy ardent sireship, yearning still to be .
The true expression of thy dowered soul, When war and toil, when peace and liberty, Her portion are. Unto her destined goal She’ll ever struggle till that goal is won; And thou wilt lead her onward, Washington.
* Read in Washington Hall, Tuesday,' February 22, at the Presentation of the Flag.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Iago and Aaron: Comparative Study-
Leo C. McElroy, ’10.
REQUENTLY we read of Shakespeare’s character Iago; in the great tragedy “Othello,” as being an exemplification of all that is base in human nature, a fiend without soul or emotion, abso
lutely and entirely devoid of any redeeming traits,—in fact, to speak paradoxically, the exception which proves the truth of the old adage, “There is nothing so bad but what there is some good in it.” And often, too, we find “lachimo,” the mischief-maker in “Cymbeline,” characterized in various treatises and essays, as “the little Iago.” But very little has been written about the villainous Aaron, who, in Titus Andronicus, so fittingly describes his nature in the lines:
Even now, I curse the day—and yet, 1 think, Few come within the compass of my curse— Wherein I did not some notorious ill;
As kill a man or else devise his death;
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it;
Accuse some innocent and forswear myself;
Set deadly enmity between two friends;
Make poor men’s cattle break their necks;
Set fire on barns and haystacks in the night, And bid the owners quench them with their tears. Oft have I digged up dead men from their graves And set them upright at their dear friends’ doors, Even when their sorrows almost were forgot; And on their skins as on the bark of trees, Have with my knife carved in Roman letters, “Let not your sorrow die, though I am dead.’’
Thus I have done a thousand dreadful things As willingly as one would kill a fly;
And nothing grieves me heartily7 indeed, ' But that I can not do ten thousand more.
Can anything be more revolting than the pride which Aaron exhibits in recounting this shameful catalogue of crime and infamy? Can this blackamoor, whose soul and body are of a single hue, be considered as typical of any order of human beings ? Rather would we say that the author has in him personified all the wickedness of the universe.
Brandes declares that “Shakespeare met Iago in his own life, saw portions and aspects of him on every hand throughout his manhood, encountered him piecemeal, as it were, on his daily path, till one fine
day, when he thoroughly felt and understood what malignant cleverness and baseness can effect, he melted down all these fragments, and out of them, cast this figure.”
In not a few of his speeches throughout the play Iago seeks to attribute his foul conduct to some specific injury received at the hands of Othello, although in other speeches he plainly shows that he holds Othello guiltless of any wrong. And despite the fact that Coleridge designates this attempt at justification as “the motive hunting of a motiveless malignity,” Iago did really act under the influence of a powerful, though wholly unworthy motive. He was smarting for revenge.
Whether it was merely his vanity which was injured by the preference shown to Cassio in the selection of a first lieutenant to Othello, or whether he considered that he had a prior right to the position, is wholly a matter of conjecture. The fact remains that when the coveted office was awarded to Cassio, Iago started on his campaign of malicious evil,' hypocrisy and falsehood,—a campaign fraught with terrible results.	i
In the case of Aaron’s wanton wickedness and cruelty, there was no motive, however feeble. Ulrici attributes to Titus’ crime in slaying his son “the awakening of the fiend in Tamora and the brute in Aaron.” But a consideration of Aaron’s speech quoted above and a study of his words and actions elsewhere in the play, however superficial, ought to convince anyone that this idea is fundamentally weak. One so calloused to all suffering, so indifferent to the distinction between right and wrong, could hardly be moved to such an exhibition of subtle cruelty and malice as Aaron’s by an act, which, in comparison to his own deeds, seemed almost righteous.
As has been noted by Coleridge, Iago seems to seek out some justification for his terrible crimes. He tries to convince himself that Othello has dishonored him through Emilia, his wife. Thus, in his soliloquy in Act I., Scene III., he says:
.	I hate the Moor;
And it is thought abroad that ’twixt my sheets He has done my office; I know not iPt be true; But I, for mere suspicion in that kind,
- Will do as if for surety.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
33^
And yet .further on in the same speech, he contradicts himself, showing that he knows Othello to be beyond suspicion and beyond deceit:
The Moor is of a free and open nature, That thinks men honest that but seem to be so.
In Act II., Scene III., Iago shows in a still more convincing manner that Othello is beyond reproach, and tries to impute the trouble he is stirring up to love for Desdemona:
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not, Is of a constant, loving, noble nature, And I dare think he’ll prove to Desdemona, A most dear husband. Now I do love her too.
Coleridge says he suspects Emilia of every baseness. But though he voices such suspicions, does he really believe in them ? Does not his characterization of the Moor as “of a constant, loving, noble nature,” indicate that he knows his accusations of wrong-doing between Emilia and Othelleo to be the offspring of his brain, a brain poisoned by his own baseness and hatred of all that is noble and beautiful in life, and not implanted there by any external evidence? In truth this continual motive hunting on the part of Iago gives rise to the idea that lie had a conscience, not torpid and dormant, but fully aroused and struggling, a conscience that upbraided and reproved him for his unprovoked and flagrant wronging of innocent persons.
Was Aaron ever troubled by remorse? No. Did conscience ever make him pause and explain to himself why he was committing this or that crime? No. To quote Lloyd: “There is a certain devilish glee in Aaron’s crime that distinguishes it from that of all the other villains of Shakespere. He gloats over the enjoyment, and resorts to it with the propensity of an indulgence, not under the sting of fury or bitterness.”
Another comparison can be drawn from the manner in which the two scoundrels met exposure. Iago feared the disclosures which Emilia made. He tried to silence her. Finding that threats would not avail him anything he resorted to violence and stabbed her. But her disclosures were enough to discover his villainies, and he was apprehended.
Aaron when seized did not fear his punish
ment. He rather' gloried in it. And it is significant that at this time he reveals the onlyfhuman side of his character—his love for his infant son. And once the safety of the latter is assured he gives free rein to his tongue, boasting of his many atrocities and outrages rather than trying to conceal them as did Iago. His utter baseness of character is shown even in his last speech, when, after having been condemned to die a horrible, lingering death, and on the verge of execution, he says:
I am no baby, I, that with base prayers
I should repent the evils I have done: Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did Would I perform if I might have my will: If one good deed in all my life I did, I do repent it from my very soul.” ,
The Leader.
William Carey, ’ll.
A NATION groaned beneath a tyrant's laws, From burdens ill-imposed, and sought in vain By statesmen’s cralt to plead its people’s cause, That Justice might be meted them again.
But when the yoke was pressed with sterner hand, Their righteous cry demanded full redress:
In freedom's name, they gathered to withstand The ruthless king, and soften their distress.
A chieftain bold was summoned to command
This legion, loyal to its country's call:
Then rose a mighty star—a leader grand, Whose peerless genius broke that awful thrall.
From out the strife a nation free emerged, Led on by one in leadership well schooled.
For he- who led its hosts when war dins surged,
Its infant destinies, in Justice ruled.
Oh great-soul, d chieftain, leader true art thou
In war and peace; and hence thy lasting praise. Before thy wisdom king and prince must bow, Thy deeds of valor fill the world’s keen gaze.
Our people's hearts unite to honor thee, For battles bravely fought and nobly won.
On us thou didst bestow the title, “Free,”
We praise thee, noble leader, Washington.
332
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sea^Wraiths.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
pROM the deep I heard them calling.—
Voices of the restless sea
Calling from their coral caverns, Lifting ghostljr hands to me.
And the seaweed hung in clusters
From their grinning, fleshless skulls,
And their mournful tones were answered
By the crying of the gulls.
Through the mist they seemed to beckon,
And I saw a thousand graves;
Then I woke,—and all I heard was
But the moaning of the waves.
Teddy Isn’t Wise Yet.
Denis A. Morrison, Jr., ’10.
Teddy Bare was home to spend the holidays. You all know Teddy; know that a disposition as restless and energetic as his must have some excitement occasionally to keep it within proper bounds. He therefore proposed a lark to the friend whom he had brought with him.
“Buts,” he said, “I’m getting stale. Let’s start something.”
“It’s a go,” replied “Buts” Framer. “Name the victim.”
“There’s a dance at Armory Hall to-night. It’s the Firemen’s Ball, so it’s hot stuff. Let’s go out among ’em.”
“Do we have to fix up much?”
“Sure. It’s a masquerade. We can get the duds without any trouble. I’m going to dress up like the picture of Caruso in the phonograph ad.”
“ Good for you. I’ll be there, but I don’t know how I’ll rig up. Guess I’ll stroll downtown and see if I can pick up a few ideas. Coming?”
“ Haven’t time. I want to find the proper apparel for that Caruso stunt.”
“Buts” left Teddy to his own devices and sallied forth upon the street, “in search of ideas.” This was really unnecessary, for “Buts” already had an idea, but not knowing how it would work out, he didn’t care to divulge it as yet.
Still pursuing this idea of his, “ Buts ” bent
his steps towards the one and only drygoods store of Three Corners, Indiana. He remained in the store for what might be deemed a suspicious length of time, and when he departed his broad smile said as plainly as Pippa ever did, “All’s right with the world.” Which is only another method of saying, that we surmise “Buts” had got away with something that promised well.
He returned to Teddy’s home just in time for supper, leaving immediately afterwards. Teddy, who was in the midst of arraying himself for the ball, thought nothing of this till the time came to hie himself forth.
“Where’s Framer?” he asked his mother.
“Why, I don’t know, I’m sure. He left the house right after supper and told me to tell you he’d see you at the dance.”
“Oh, then it’s all right, ma, perfectly all right,” he replied reassuringly, as if to allay any possible suspicions. But he winked mentally as he said to himself: “The sly old thing has hooked up with some dame. Wonder who she can be.” Anc he thought no more of it.
Teddy was one prize kid at that masquerade. Rigged up in his flashing silk cloak, slashed doublet and hat with a feather three feet long in it, like the Caruso of “Don Juan,” he was the mainspring of the whole works and had all the girls “coming South.” He was in his element. There was a fair number , of spectators viewing the proceedings from the side-lines, and their verdict was unanimous that he was easily the most dashing , figure in the entire polychromatic multitude.
In the interim between the fourth and fifth dances, the entry of a tall and impressive looking young lady caused a momentary lull in the buzz of conversation. She was dressed in a most bewitching costume as the lovely daughter of the dwarf in “ Rigoletto.”
“Ah,” thought Teddy, “me for her. There’s real poetry in that costume. She stands ace high with me from this moment.”
After the dance he made his way to the corner where she was sitting alone, already having turned down numerous offers to waltz. Making a bow like a mule, Teddy commenced his conquest.
“May I have the honor of this dance?” he asked in that taking way of his.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
।	Saying nothing the maiden rose and placed
!	herself in an	affirmative	position.	Teddy
:	did likewise,	and ere long they	found
J	themselves in	the proper	juxtaposition to
:	prance the mazes.
;	“I just seemed to float into your arms
naturally,” said Teddy. His partner gave a coquettishly vigorous nod and squeezed ;	his arm. Teddy’s heart beat exultantly
"	and he went on with more confidence. “Do
i	you know,” he continued, “I knew I was
<	going to like you as soon as I saw you
■	come in. Your costume is beautiful.” Then,
>	after a pause: “Do you like mine?”
?	She replied with her head at that angle
;	. which one associates with dreamy eyes and
poetic fervor:
j	“It is simply grand. And so romantic.”
»	Then her big blue eyes caught his for a
moment and held them with a glance that made him lose his step.
“You’re stepping on my toes,” she |	announced.
“Oh — oh, I beg pardon—I’m awfully sorry.”	'
“You’re forgiven—naughty boy,” she . rejoined in such a playfully amorous tone that Teddy almost felt himself slipping. He leaned close to her and whispered:
“The last dance before unmasking is the twelfth. May I have it?”
And she answered “Yes.”
During the intervening numbers, Teddy was almost on his ear with eager curiosity. Although he hadn’t any idea who the.young lad ywas,- he knew he had cornered a pippin, and he had a large desire to investigate it
,	further. At last the weary time was past
j	and he found himself once more at the side
i	of his idol.
|	“ It’s terribly hot in here,” he said. “ What
j	do you say to the conservatory?”
I	For answer she laid her arm in his and
i	looked up with a trusting expression..
“Do you know you’re a mystery to me,” he said, when they were seated.
. She laughed a low silvery laugh that thrilled him to the very fibres of his being.
- “You’re no mystery to me,” she replied.
“Is that so? Who am I, then?”
“You’re one of those young men from college. . There are two of them, but I don’t know whether you’re the handsome one or
I	not. Do you play on the football team?”
333
“Why, sure. I—etc.” (Five minutes of monologue in which the words ‘I’ and ‘touchdown’ occur most frequently).
“I suppose all the girls are just crazy about you,” the fair one cooed on.
“Most of them,” confessed Teddy, unabashed, “ but L never met any that I thought I could love till—”,
“Oh, you mustn’t.”
Teddy had made a vicious dash for her hands and had almost corralled one of them.
“You are so impulsive,” said she, “that I—I sort of like you.”
“Won’t you tell me your name, at least before we unmask?” begged Teddy, thrilled again.	-
“Yes, I’ll do that. It’s—Claribel.” “Claribel—how I love that name!” “There you go again.”
“I’m sorry. But it’s nearly time to unmask.”	-
Teddy was genuinely surprised at the effect of his words.
“Oh,” she said, “I forgot. W’ill you excuse me a minute, while I fix my hair a little.”
“Certainly,” he said, rising.
“You’ll stay here till I get back and not run off with some other girl?”
“I’ll stay all night, if necessary,” was the gallant reply.
In a moment she was gone. Minutes flew by and she didn’t come back and didn’t come back and still didn’t, and the chances are she hasn’t got back yet. At least, that’s what “Buts” told the boys at Duckville when the boys returned to school. As for Teddy, sad to state, he isn’t wise yet.
The cycle of values of a cultivated mind is essentially different from that of a child or a savage. Greater intellectual power and wider knowledge not only transform our estimate of the relative worth of things, but they lead to a j uster appreciation of what has worth, while they reveal the vanity of much which the multitude consider valuable. As the man ceases to care for what the boy found delightful, so what one age considers essential to its welfare, another holds to be of less or no importance. Our whole being tends to adapt itself to our intellectual views, as life tends to set up and maintain a correspondence with its environment.—Spalding.
334
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
To Washington.
The Central Bank.
Thou master-builder who didst frame
A ship of state whose like the world
Had never seen, and then unfurled
Upon her highest mast the name ' Of Liberty; thou who didst guide Thy grandest work upon a tide
That threatened thee with wreck and death, Until she rode a calmer sea;
In spirit tend thy ship and be
Her guide through every tempest’s breath!
C. J. M. Unrest.
Where sounds the pulse of human feet Upon the public mart,
A spirit moves amid the throng Which stirs each throbbing heart.
With eager quest the crowds press on In search of fame or power,
Unmindful of the price they pay . For pleasure’s fleeting hour.
The singing breeze no message brings Unto their restless minds,
Forever changing as the waves o o
Beneath the veering winds.
•	F. C.
A Revery.
Darkness around me is folding her wings. Slowly above me the bright stars appear.
Sadly I’m thinking of thousand of things Far, far away, by their absence made dear.
Mother and Father and loved one I see: Visions appear of the dear cherished past;
Then to the scenes where I’m longing to be, Fancy transports me as night settles fast.
J. H.
. To a Tuberose.
In all this world no ejre hath ever seen Another flower so sensitive or keen, Discovered in this universe so vast With such a lovely fragrance as will last, As this fair flower whose sweetness doth portray The gift of virtue in its lowly way.
It grows up from a' stalk with stem so bare, Both humbleness and modesty doth share;
And when the blossom from the bud unfolds, And liberates the sweetness that it holds No quality minute, but doth dispose	-
Perfume and purity—My sweet Tuberose. J. Me.
AN OPERA IN THE U. S. SENATE.
Air.—“A Man who has Plenty of Good Peanuts.” Affirmative—Aldrich and the Stand-Patters.
Negative—La Follette and the Insurgents, o
Aldrich (Singing).
Our Currency Plan is the wofst afloat, The world stigmatizes it “Rank.”
But why bear this brunt, when we’d come to the front
If we had a Central Bank?
Stand-Patters’ Chorus.
If we had a Central Bank,
We would take our proper rank.
We’d govern the world with our flag unfurled If we had a Central Bank.
La Follette (Singing}.
The floor of our graft surely's large enough now, Why stick in another plank?
The factions would run for the Government’s
•	“ mon,”	’
If we had a Central Bank.
Insurgents’ Chorus.
If we had a Central Bank
We would loosen the safety crank.
The land would go daft from the terrible graft, If we had a Central Bank.
Aldrich (Singing).
No panics would ever depress the land, Nor stringencies come. We would thank
Our star of fate for our perfect state
If we had a Central Bank.
Stand-Patters’ Chorus.
If we had a Central Bank,
We would give ourselves a yank
To the front of creation, the foremost Nation,-If we had a Central Bank.
La Follette (Singing).
Our country’s too large to adopt this plan, ’Twould be a disastrous prank.
Our treasury’d bust and fall into the dust
If we had a Central Bank.
Insurgents’ Chorus.
If we had a Central Bank,
Our honor would be a blank.	.
The country would shrivel and go to the devil, If we had a Central Bank.	G. J. F.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Wordsworth’s “Theory” and the “Ars Poetica.”
Charles. C. Miltxer, ’ll.
Poets, like orators, are largely influenced by the social and political conditions and changes of the period in which they live. It was no mere accident that Wordsworth conceived his particular “theory of poetry,” nor Horace his “Ars Poetica.” For, in like manner as the machinations of Philip of Macedon inspired the orations and made the orator of Demosthenes, so did the almost universal reaction against eighteenth century classicism create in the English poet the desire to extend this reaction to literature, and so did the prevalent passion for poetry during the Augustan Age create in the sons of Piso an ambition to become poets—and it was to aid them in realizing this ambition that Horace produced his didactic poem. Eighteen centuries span the lapse of time between these two poets, and it may be interesting to compare their ideas on the subject which engrossed the lifelong attention of each.
Horace is famous as a lyric poet. It was by these poems that he hoped for and acheived immortality. But as a critic he had ideals and standards which governed the workings of his own genius and by which he. counselled others and judged of their productions. Some of these ideals he gives to us in the “Ars Poetica,” not that it is an exhaustive or complete statement of his theory of poetry, nor, indeed, that he is designedly taking this means of conveying to the public any part of it as such, but, pointing out to his pupils, as he does during the greater part of the poem, the mistakes made by various writers, in the proper arrangement of parts, in the choice of words and in matters of style, he but touches upon a few general principles, and these too, for the most part, only in a single branch of poetry, the drama, so that, instead of calling it a theory of poetry, it would be more consistent to call it a series of literary lessons. Horace was not . trying to introduce a new poetry; on the contrary, he insists again and again upon a close imitation of the Greek models both
335
in regard to lyric measures, the use of new words and the laws of the drama. He undoubtedly wrote according to a poetic theory, but it was rather the established principles than any independent ones of his own.
“Wordsworth’s distinctive work,” however, says Ruskin, “was a war with pomp and pretense,”—as it appeared to him in the works of the Elizabethan and later poets,—“and a display of the majesty of simple feelings and humble hearts, together with high reflective truths in his analysis of the causes of policies and ways of men.” He had a theory of poetry, separate and distinct from any other, and according to its principles he produced his lyrics. It is a complete and exhaustive statement of the fundamental principles which governed his work, and, that there might be no mistake about it, he makes it the basis of his justification against his critics. It is indeed a treatise on poetics as he conceived it, and instead of counselling imitation of classic writers it avowedly forbids imitation.
In the first part of his work, Horace, while not designating any special subjects as material for poetic diction, emphasizes the point, that whatever theme is chosen, it must be simple and uniform and treated in a natural way, for “neither a pleasing style, nor a perspicuous disposition, shall desert the man by whom the subject matter is wisely chosen.” Again, the manners of every period must be treated by the poet, and characters of every disposition and age represented, hence each must be allowed his natural language and natural qualities.
Over against this Wordsworth says: “If the poet’s subject be judiciously chosen it will naturally and upon fit occasions lead him to passions, the language of which, if selected truly and judiciously, must necessarily be dignified and variegated and alive with metaphors and figures;” suit the style to the character and let the language be natural. With Horace, ‘it is not sufficient that poems be beautiful,’ but they must contain sentiments which, being expressed, will arouse tender feelings:
Si vis me fle're, dolendum est Premum ipsi tibi.
With Wordsworth poetry must make “the feelings give importance to the action and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
336
situation, not the action and situation to the feelings.” “ A great poet,” he continues, “must be a great man; and a great man must be a good man, and a good man ought to be a happy man. He is a man speaking to men; a man endowed with more lively sensibility, more enthusiasm and tenderness, who has a greater knowledge of human nature, and a more comprehensive soul, than are supposed to be common among mankind.” He writes under one restriction only, namely, the necessity^ of giving immediate pleasure to a human being possessed of (Certain) information as a man.” He calls poetry the “breath and finer spirit of all knowledge; ” “the first and last of all knowledge—it is as immortal as the heart of man.”
“To have good sense is the first principle of writing well,” and likewise the first essential of a good poet, as conceived of by Horace. In addition he must be a man of sound character and intense patriotism, sensible to parental and fraternal affections, and he must have ideals for a mo lei senator or judge or general. He must have the broadest knowledge of human rature and “know how to give suitable attributes to every character.” Again, “mortal works must perish. We and our w orks are doomed to death.”
In his criticisms of the dramatic poetry he principally calls attention to Greek practice, and advises that it be the rule. One thing he can not grant, however, and that is mediocrity in poetry. Men may tolerate a mediocre lawyer, but mediocrity in poets “ neither gods nor men, nor even booksellers, have endured.” Poetry was “invented for the delight of our souls,” but if it is not perfect it fails utterly of its purpose. “ Poets wish either to delight or profit.”
Other precepts and advice the poet, gives, but enough has been said to show that he did not intend that the poem should inany way be considered a “theory of poetry” as was Wordsworth’s. In fact it may be consistently argued that the title “ Ars Poetica” is a misnomer, since it is known that such title was not given it by Horace himself.
These two poets have many things in common, but nothing more so than their love of nature, of the simple and commonplace and beautiful. Horace was never more
happy, nor did the expression of that happiness take on a more artistic form, than when-he was living among the shady groves and orchards and quiet retreats of his Sabine farm. He loved the streams, the fountains and the waterfalls and he delights in comparing their peaceful associations with the turmoil and excitement of the city. Of Wordsworth it is said he is the “poet of common life’’and the “poet of nature and of common ties.”
But if they were lovers of nature and of simple things, they were none the less practical philosophers, and the ethical lessons so beautifully yet. so pointedly taught in their unpretentious lyrics shall be always applicable, and men will ever be the better for having read them.
The Apostolate of Religious Reading at the University.
By the Director.
Every thoughtful person that has aught to do with the education of young men can not fail to realize the necessity of fostering in them a taste for religious reading. As an antidote to the unprofitable or hurtful reading in which they indulge so much, the frequent reading of Catholic authors will be found very beneficial. Without some reading of a religious nature the spiritual life will weaken and be in danger of extinction. Such considerations as these led the writer, who is rector of one of the halls of the University, to take practical steps toward forming a free religious library for the use of the students of Notre Dame.
He had himself, for a number of years, been lending his own and borrowed books to the students, and found that' many of them would read religious literature with interest. The inadequate means at his disposal made it. impossible for the writer to provide a sufficient number of books to distribute among the entire student body. This fact was not an insuperable obstacle, for the writer felt convinced that a considerable number of the students would gladly contribute to a fund for the purchase of books. Having obtained the approval of the Rev. President of the University, he began collecting money for the purpose of forming a
NOTRE DAME
circulating religious library. The students were asked individually to give what they ' would for this good work. A well-known and trustworthy young man did the collecting, which, with some additional donations from other sources, brought the sum of $97.70. With this amount the Director of the Apostolate purchased about 150 volumes.
The best method of distributing the books was found to be that of sending two young men with a number of books, carried in a satchel, to the rooms of the students, allowing each one to choose what he liked. Every second Sunday a visit was made to each room, and should any student wish a new
book in the meantime, he
from the Director of books were seldom
the lost
injured, each person that
could obtain it Apostolate. The or in any way received a book
being responsible for its safekeeping.
The results of the first year of the Apos-tolate’s work are most gratifying to the Director and the University officials. Many of the students are regular readers. Some, whose past records were not such as would lead one to suppose they would be at all interested in religious literature, discovered that such books are really interesting and became constant readers. Often a book would be read not only by the recipient but also by his friends, so that an exact record of the actual number of readers of any given book was not ascertained.
The character of the books, and those which are most popular, may be seen in the tabulated record of the first year’s work given below. Books reported as having but few readers were generally those that
were bought late in the year.
■	Authors
Spalding—Aphorisms and Reflections
C.
1
Religion, Agnosticism and Education 1
“	Opportunity and Other Essays
“	Things of the Mind
“	Education and the Higher Life
“	Means and Ends of Education
Vaughan—Thoughts for all Times .
“	Earth to Heaven
“	Faith and Folly
“	Dangers of the Day
“	Life after Death
Trahey — Brothers of Holy Cross Cavanaugh—Priests of Holy Cross Stoddard—The Wonder-Worker of Padua_ “	A Troubled Heart
“	The Lepers of Molokai
O’Meara—The Cure of Ars
SCHOLASTIC	337 r
Wiseman—Fabiola	6 55
Camm—A Day in the Cloister	1 10
Mannix—Chronicles of the “Little Sisters”	6 29
“	Tales Tim Told Us	4 21
“	As True as Gold	1	9
“	A Life’s Labyrinth	1	2
Alexander—A Missionary’s Notebook	10 96
Loyola—Jesus of Nazareth	1	4
Gibbons—Faith of Our Fathers	1	6
Tyrrell—External Religion	1	4
Sheehan—My- New Curate	3 19
“	Marne Corona	1 1
Reid—A Child of Mary	5 29
“	Philip’s Restitution	6 44
“	Fairy’ Gold	4 18
“	Vera’s Charge	5 21
“	Carmela	5 17
“	Heart of Steel	1 2
“	A Sin and Its Atonement	6 24
“	The Man of the Family	1	4
“	The Coin of Sacrifice	12 34
“	His Victory’	12 40
Hughes—Essentials and Non-Essentials of the	
Catholic Religion	1	6
Glimpses of the Supernatural	4 19
Once upon a Time	2 11
Knight of Bloemendale	1	5
Scenes and Sketches in an Irish Parish	4 15
Von Hiigel—A Roval Son and Mother	3 11
Newman—Dream of Gerontius	1	2
“	Sermons on Various Occasions	1	2
O’Reilly—Martyrs of the Colosseum	6 14
Wallace—Ben-Hur	1	2
Fairbanks—A Visit to Europe and the Holy Land	1	3
Boyhood of Patrick Lynch	1 - 3
The Mission Movement in America	1	3
The Washington Conference of Missionaries,	
1904	1 2
The Washington Congress of Missionaries,	
1909	'	1 1
Parsons—S.ome Lies and Errors of History	1 1
Stevenson—Father Damien	1 13
Azarias—Mary, Queen of May	1 1
Sienkiewicz—Peasants in Exile	2 4
Crawford—Sant’ Ilario	1 3
“	Saracinesca	1	2
Finn—That Football Game	1	7
Van Dyke—The Story of the Other Wise Man	2	5
The Ave Maria (Bound Volumes)	5 13
The Missionary (Bound Numbers)	2	6
Kennedy—Holy Mass	1- 1
Rivart—Views of Dante	1 1
Belord—Catechism	1 2
O’Neill—Between Whiles	1	3
St. Paul of the Cross	•	1	3
St. Paschal Babylon	1 2
Maturin—Self-knowledge	1	2
Azarias—Phases of Thought	1 3.
A Kempis—Imitation of Christ	1 3
The New Testament	1	3
St. Alphonsus Liguori	„	1 3
Hedley—The Holy Eucharist	1 2
“ The Christian Inheritance	,	1 2
“ The Light of Life	1 2
A Retreat	‘	1 2
R.
5
5
S
4
16
4
9
5
7
7
4
10
7
15
10
25
1
1
6
1
1
1
. 1
3
1
2
2
4
3
2
5
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Tenn at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIH. February 26, 1910 No. 21.
BOARD OF EDITORS
GEORGE J. PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10 MICHAEL A. MATHIS, ’10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ 11 FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll CHARLES MILTNER, ’ll
FREDERICK W.
FINNIGAN, ’10	’
LEO J. CLEARY, ’10
LEO C. MCELROY, ’10 JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll JOHN C. TULLY, ’ll ARTHUR J. HUGHES, ’ll THOMAS F. CLEARY, ’ll
CARROLL, ’12
—The presentation of the flag on Washington’s birthday is symbolical of the spirit that characterizes and has ever characterized the students and The Spirit of the Flag, faculty of Notre Dame.
And it is eminently fitting that this means should be made use of annually to manifest our inward devotion to the nation that nourishes and protects us. As the cross is a sign of religion, so is the flag a mark of patriotism. Prayer, good works and religious observances keep glow-ingthe spark of faith within us. The mental image and the mental conception, if they are to become permanent, must frequently be intensified by the co-operation of the outward act; the heart is educated by the hand. Likewise the love of country is vivified from time to time by the expression of this sentiment in patriotic exercises. The flag is emblematical of all that constitutes true patriotism, and this can be nothing less than a deep sense of civic righteousness, a staunch devotion to the principles of political purity and national equity, and lastly, a firm purpose not only to carry out those principles in our own lives, but also to muster to their aid all who come
within the range of our influence or the province of our teaching. The Stars and Stripes should bring ever before us the lofty motives, the high ideals that directed the activities and characterized the lives of our forefathers. It should image for us the magnanimity of Washington, the unselfish devotion of Webster and the rugged honesty of Lincoln. We should, in short, regard the flag of our country as typical of that amor patriae round which the orator and the poet well may wreathe the choicest thoughts that mind can form or mortal tongue can speak. The sentiment bears the impress of the cross, is in consonance with the teachings of the Master and wakes in men lofty impulse and stirs to high endeavor.
—The tenacity with which the Faculty sticks to the routine of classes and class periods is to be condoned even if one doesnot grow enthusiastic To be Commended, over the practice. Last Monday is a day among ever so many others one calls to mind at this moment to illustrate the point. Minister Egan gave a lecture in the afternoon; shortly after Sorin Hall and Old College struggled for indoor track honors, while in the evening the debaters waxed eloquent in the Law Room over bank issues. Yet with the regularity of a pendulum the students swung back and forth to classes all daylong. Extra recreation days are as rare as robins; and surely these are rare enough now. On the whole, perhaps, it is better so. It is so difficult to draw the line as to when and when not, the practice of not drawing the line at all is, without doubt, the most acceptable. A specific amount of work is scheduled for the school year, and frequent interruptions mean undue haste to make up time. Then, too, scarbely a week passes here that does not witness some event- worthy a measure of recognition. Were this recognition to take the form of suspension of classes, the actual work of the University would suffer. In view of this, we are disposed to be lenient in the matter of giving demerits to the Faculty for being close-fisted about holidays.
—The short article appearing in this issue of the Scholastic focuses attention on a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
work that deserves helpful encouragement. College students too gen-An Evidence of Zeal, erally read the lightest of light literature, and any effort to create a taste for religious subjects is to be commended with scarcely a single qualification. Catholic literature forms correct opinion, creates proper atmosphere, and the Catholic young man is in need of both. Too often the opportunities to get in touch with Catholic thought are not afforded him because of his surroundings and associations. Fortunately, this can never exist here, because everywhere he is reminded of the truth and splendor of his Catholic faith. The Apostolate of Religious Reading, however, not only turns the thought of the student on religious topics, but it furnishes him an object lesson in religious work for the benefit of others. Opportunities will be afforded him in his after-life of extending the Kingdom of God on earth in some such way as by the distribution of good literature. Without such an object lesson as this the opportunity might be allowed to slip by unnoticed. With such a lesson, the chances are he will be alive to its importance and will be disposed to do for others what has been done for him.
—In the reign of Tiglath Pileser III., the Egyptians and Assyrians held an international track meet in the roof gardens of -	the king. There was a sport-
Thus Did Pileser. ingfraternity in evidence that lived along the valley of the Tigris. These gentlemen, if they had any manners, left them at home; for they expectorated on the galleries much to the disgust and discomfort of all those people •present—and they were many—who never forget their manners. Some soldiers of the king were summoned and rushed the offenders before his serene royalty of the land of Assyria. “What shall w’e do with these vile men?” asked one of the soldiers bending low. “Hang them up by the ears from the highest tower in Nineveh, and lash them an hundred stripes,” roared the king. 0 good Pilezer, come to us again!
—At a recent meeting of the New York Electrical Society the principal subject of
discussion was “The Practical Applications of the Gyrostat.” An. exam-
The Gyroscope, ination of the ordinary theory of the use of the gyroscope involves - such a complication of mathematical formulae that few outside of the engineering profession have cared to interest themselves in this device. The gyroscope, or gyrostat, as it is called in its practical • application, in its elemental form is simply a flywheel provided with means for giving rapid rotation, and mounted in such a way that its axis can tip in any direction. When an attempt is made to alter its plane of rotation the device tends to resist the motion by a slow precession in a direction such that the gyroscope will finally rotate in the direction of the imparted motion. The gyrostat has been used with success in ccean steamships to prevent rolling motion; by its use the monorail car has become a fact; and it will not be long before the gyroscopic principles will be utilized in stabilizing aeroplanes in flight against wind disturbances. In this way aeroplane flights and ocean voyages can be made as pleasant. and safe as riding in Pullman cars; while the gyro-car, running on its single span, can cross the continent at the rate of two hundred miles an hour. The gyrostat might still further be utilized in automobiles to prevent their turning turtle during “joy” rides.
—The interhall track meets -with their high enthusiasm and excitement have passed into local athletic history. To Corby Hall goes the victory and with Ont Reason for Our it our unqualified con-Athletic Success.	gratulations; and to the
students generally our sincere commendation for their exceptional good nature and spirit of fair play. These interhall meets so judiciously conducted explain to a great extent our present high position in American intercollegiate athletics. Critics who go afield in search of professional burrows need not hope for any “find ” here. Manifestly, in a boarding school where students live for ten months, it is an easy matter for coaches to pick out those who give promise of noteworthy ability. Everybody so minded has the. opportunity to do his best work and he is assured his work will receive recognition. This is one reason for our success in athletics.
34°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Washington’s Birthday Exercises.
Last Tuesday morning the students of the University were assembled in Washington Hall to render fitting tribute to the “Father of His Country.” Formally there was no departure from the exercises of past years, but there was an especial note of sincerity manifested, particularly in the singing of the national airs by the audience. Appropriate and pleasing music was rendered by the University Orchestra. In pursuance of a long established custom, Mr. Dolan, as president and in behalf of the Senior class, made the speech for the presentation of the flag to the University. Sincerity and. earnestness marked his delivery, while loyalty to the cross and the flag was the import of his words. The text of Mr. Dolan?s address will appear in our next issue.
Mr. George Finnigan read an ode to Washington, which not only drew hearty applause from the audience, but merited special commendation from the speaker of the day. Mr. Parker, the orator of the day, made no pretense at delivering’ a formal oration, but rather confined himself to reflections upon the character of Washington, and then drew some practical conclusions. The one quality he remarked, which everybody could profitably emulate,in Washington’s character, was that of always being prepared. President Cavanaugh in his usual happy and eloquent manner accepted the flag in behalf of the University, and the exercises closed with the singing of “America.”
The Visit of Dr. Maurice Francis Egan.
We had the pleasure this week of a visit from a former Professor of the University, His Excellency Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States Government to Denmark. On Monday Dr. Egan lunched with the faculty and students in the east dining-room of the University and at 2:00 ‘P. M. he delivered an interesting and instructive lecture on Denmark and her people.
It is evident that the brilliant Dr. Egan has quite fallen under the charm of the Danish people. When he speaks of them it
is with a rare feeling of pride and devotion. His remarks were of great value to the students, and his account of how Dr. Cook came and went had a special value as	•
being told by the one man who best knew	*
the story.	|
The coming of Dr. Egan for even a dav	I
was a great gratification to his friends	I
at Notre Dame. Next year he will return	|
to the United States to give a course of	I
lectures in Johns Hopkins University and	|
the University of Notre Dame.	|
Father Smith Coming.
It will be joyous news to all at the University to know that the distinguished and beloved Father John T. Smith will be a member of the Faculty for a part of the present school year. His lectures will be delivered between April 4th and April 23d. His thesis is the Comparative Value of American Literary n ork to date. He will take as illustrations Poe and Longfellow, Emerson and Brownson, Hawthorne and Lowell, Cooper and Crawford, Bancroft and Fiske, McMaster and Partiin, Washington Irving and Henry James.
Father Smith adds: “Special address to small corporal bodies ad libitumy but also fixes the date of the Minstrel Show and Vaudeville for April 16th.
Robert O. Bowman, Impersonator.
In a number of character portrayals from life, Mr. Bowman, the clever impersonator, | rendered a delightful entertainment in | Washington Hall on Saturday night last. | This was his first appearance at Notre	|
Dame, and' judging from the enthusiastic	J
applause which greeted each number, he |' made a decided hit. Mr. Bowman is a born g entertainer and a story-teller of exceptional ' f merit. He was most natural as the Italian, | but was equally successful as the Norwegian	0
and the “Hoosier.” His portrayal of the	B
German may have been a little over-drawn, g but was the occasion of considerable amuse- B ment on the part of bis hearers. Mr.	g
Bowman is not an actor. His interpretation	B
of Shylock lacked expression and rather B detracted than otherwise from the evening’s B program. We hope to hear him again.	B
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
34i
The Preliminary Trials in Debate.
Personals.
The first tests for candidates for the University and Law debating teams were held on three nights this week, February 20, 21, 22. The establishment of a Central Bank in the United States was the question discussed. A knowledge of the question and a form superior to the average preliminary trials were shown by all those who entered. The decision of the judges leaves the following men to compete in the semi-final trials
which will be held in Washington Hall:
Thursday, March 3d. Affirmative.	.	Negative.
Otto Schmid	James Toole
Charles Miltner	Paul Donovan
William Carey	Charles Hagerty
Leo Buckley
Friday, March 4th.
Michael Mathis	John P. Murphy
George Finnigan	James Hope
George Sands	John O’Hara
From these contestants eight men will he chosen for the final trial to be held about ten davs later. •
Obituary.
Brother Benjamin.
On last Monday afternoon another figure familiar to the students of the University passed away from the scene of his labors in the person of Bro. Benjamin. For many years Bro. Benjamin held the important position of sacristan in the Sacred Heart Church. Punctual, devoted, exact in the important details of religious ceremonies, his death leaves a very responsible position to be filled. While the devoted religious had been ailing for some time, his death came as somewhat of a surprise to all at Notre Dame. His funeral took place last Wednesday morning at S o’clock in the church where he gave so many evidences of religious devotedness. May he rest in peace!
* ' * *
Hiram Bartlett Keeler.
The death is announced of Hiram Bartlett Keeler (B. S.. ’70,- M. S. ‘73), who passed away in Los Angeles, Cal., Feb. 15, after a brief illness. Old students of his period will remember him as a popular and prominent member of the University. He was greatly esteemed -by the community in which he lived, and his passing is lamented by a great circle of friends. The family has the prayerful sympathy of the University. R. I. P.
—Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, formerly professor of English Literature in the University, and now United States Minister, to Denmark, sails again for his post on March 3d.
—A. A. Heer (LL. B., 1893), who was formerly located at Los Angeles, sends the announcement that he has opened a law office at 220 Odd Fellows Temple, Reno, Nevada.
—John I. O’Phelan (LL. B., 1904) sends his annual report to the law library. The calendar of cases shows Mr. O’Phelan is as active and aggressive as ever. He certainly has a bright future.
—Keach & Sprenger, both 1908 law men, who have been rapidly forging ahead in Indianapolis, recently won a notable case. They declare, however, that “the primary cause of success is due to their Dean of Law, Colonel Hoynes.”
—It now appears that the recent news item referring to Mr. Frank Scanlan was based upon erroneous infromation which reached the Scholastic in the regular way through the mail, but was probably furnished by some sublimated idiot with a distorted sense of humor. In fact it is unjust to the idiots to class such a person with them. There is only one fit punishment for this particular kind of criminal. He ought to be thrashed to within an inch of his life on the public square.
—The Scholastic announces with pleasure that the Rev. Hugh O’Gara McShane, LL. D. ’95, has been appointed pastor of the Church of the Immaculate Conception. For years, Father McShane has been the zealous and beloved pastor of the Church of the Annunciation. His promotion to one of the most important charges in the great Archdiocese of Chicago is a fine recognition on the part of his superiors of the good work he has already done. The University, which owes a special debt of gratitude to Father McShane, offers cordial congratulations.
—The Inter-Ocean of last week contained the following notice about Dr. Michael R. Powers (Litt. B., 1898) who is said to have done more than anyone else to dignify the
342
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
profession of baseball by his personal conduct during his years with the Athletics:
Though Mike Powers is dead he is not forgotten. At the request of Manager Mack, June 30 in the East was left open in the American League schedule in order that he could arrange a “Powers Day” at Shibe park. The proposition met with the prompt indorsement of the owners of the clubs, all of whom expressed their willingness to help along such a worthy cause. Frank Farrell of the Highlanders, offered the service of his entire club, but in order to give variety to the game which will be played Mack thought it would be a good scheme to have representatives from all the Eastern teams of the American League, and President Taylor of Boston and President Noyes of Washington placed the pick of their teams at the disposal of Manager Mack. The gross receipts of the game will be turned over to the widow of the dead catcher.
Calendar.
Sunday, 27—Corby-Sorin basket-ball game. “	St. Joseph Literary Society.
“	Brownson Literary Society.
Monday, 28—Orchestra Practice. Wednesday, 2—Philopatrian Society.
11 Civil Engineering Society.
Thursday, 3—St. Joseph-Brownson basketball game.
“ Semi-finals in debate.
Friday, 4—Semi-finals in debate.
Saturday, 5—Varsity-Wabash basket-ball game.	. .
“ Freshman-Culver Track Meet at Culver.
Baseball practice, daily at 3 P. M.; Thursdays and Sundays, 9 A. M.; Track, daily at 3:45 P. M.; Basket-ball, daily at 4:30 P. M. Wrestling and boxing classes, daily at 7 P. M.
Local Items.
—Feb. 22.—First bluebirds arrived. Who will see the earliest robin?
—Lost.—A ten-inch slide rule by Prof. Benitz. Finder please return it to him at the shops or leave at room 119, Sorin Hall.
—Omitted by mistake from the list of Senior class on Washington’s Birthday program, Henry Francis McDonough, Law, Denis Aloysius O’Shea, Letters.
—Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C. S. C., of the Department of Chemistry and Botany, has accepted an invitation to address the Indiana
Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers of Indiana, at Richmond, Indiana, March 5, on “Methods of preparing Aquaria.”
—The ex-juniors easily defeated the Brownson first team last week, taking the lead from the start in the first half, ending with the score 29-13. In the second half Brownson proved the stronger. Final score, 41-36. Coach Roost of Brownson declares it was a “practice game.” The one-time Carrollites also defeated St. Joseph’s Hall, 21-20.
—Special Notice.—There is an opening for a physician, a Notre Dame graduate, in a thriving town in Northern Michigan. Besides the practice there is a drug store and dwelling attached to same, and the whole can be secured for $1200. Immediate action should be taken. There is also an opening for a printer, married preferred, in the same town. Persons interested should correspond with the President of the University.
—Students and alumni will be interested in knowing that Coach Frank Longman has received the silver loving cup which was secured as a token of appreciation of his services last fall. He has written Father Moloney as follows:
Mr Dear Father Moloney:—I received the cup to-day, and to say that T was pleased with it is putting it mildly. It is a token which I cherish both for the gift itself and the spirit in which it was given. Every one here thinks it is perfectly lovely, and I am certainly proud of it. No - matter xv hat the future has in store for me I will always have that feeling toward Notre Dame which makes one hate to leave the place and always wish to return.
Very truly yours,
Frank C. Longman.
—A special Lincoln program was rendered at the last regular meeting of the St. Joseph Literary Society. It consisted of an exceptionally well rendered selection from a speech of Henry Watterson’s by Mr. Savord; a very meritorious original essay on “Lincoln, an Ideal Man” by Mr. Milroy; Carr’s “Lincoln at Gettysburg” by R. E. Skelley; an impromptu address by Thos. Ford on “Lincoln the Lawyer and President,” and Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Address” by Patrick Barry. The program was followed by some timely remarks of the critic of the evening, Prof. Reis, after which the professor delighted the society with a humorous recitation. A committee was appointed to make arrange
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	343
ments for the St. Joseph Day entertainment.
—The regular meeting of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society was held last Sunday evening. The Rev. Father Carroll was present and assumed the duties of critic of the society, formerly held by Prof. Spiess. He accepted the honor graciously, and at the same time took occasion to point put the duties which must be performed, if the society wished to work together, harmoniously. The program for the evening was short but well rendered. “The Speech--of Vindication” was read by E. Jennings and “The Speech in the Virginia Convention in 1776 ” by P. O’Brien. The question of debate was: “Resolved, That the term of office of the President of the United States should be six years and he should not be re-elected.” Messrs. R. Clark, R. Honan and P. Byrne supported the affirmative, and Messrs. S. Caully, L. Kiley and W. O’Shea, the negative. After a lively and spirited discussion the decision was given to the affirmative.
—The famous trio Murphy, Ryan and Cooke with their variety troupe gave the initial performance of “The Track Meet” last Tuesday to the unqualified delight of the Minims and the general satisfaction ot the older heads. On account of the peculiar circumstances under which the company was laboring the part of the chorus was entrusted to the graphophone which appeared to be a little out of form probably because of overwork. The comedy is founded on College life, and in the third act Murphy gives a realistic exhibition of a pole-vault. The plot is simple. Sorin and Old College are competing and Sorin is doped to win. Nettled by the cold sneers of the Sorinites and spurred on by the entreaties of the Graphophone, Murphy, who is the mainstay of the Old-Collegians, carries away event after event amid tumultuous applause. Finally, in the 40-yard dash in which he comes within 3-16 seconds of breaking the world’s record, Murphy faints from exhaustion, and Cooke who has been bought up by the Sorinites under pretense of reviving his team-mate administers a potion of weak tea surreptitiously obtained from the diningroom. As may be expected Murphy is completely disabled and the Sorinites march on to victory. The company carries a complete line of varied and fantastic costumes as well
as a supply of up-to-date yells. Mr. Murphy announces that before the next performance the Graphophone will be granted two new records, and that Pete De Landero, the phenomenal acrobat and high-diver, will be added to the company.
—One phase of student activity that is overlooked by those outside of engineering courses, is the work done in the shops. Several years ago a movement towards reducing the amount of purely practice work and substituting instead, practical machine and apparatus building was begun. The idea proved to be good, and this year a large amount of work is carried on in practical machinery. The Juniors in the electrical and mechanical courses have nearly completed an eight H. P. gas engine. The engine differs frpm those formerly built in being four-cycle, and of the horizontal type. The largest engine previously constructed was three and one-half H. P. two cycle, vertical or marine type. The short course mechanical men are now constructing seven engines of this size. With the exception of the large castings for the base, which had to be secured from the foundry, every stroke of work done in turning and fitting the different pieces has been done .by the students. The eight H. P. engine will be used in the mechan-o	o
ical laboratory for different kinds of tests, such as prony brake experiments and indicator card work. It is required that those taking the short course in mechanical engineering build each a gas engine. With others this work is optional, and different students follow their own fancies in their choice of work. The short course E. E. men are now preparing to construct a specially-wound three H. P. motor for use in the electrical laboratory and also a generator for Chemistry Hall, while two other men are making a complete lathe which will have a 14-inch swing, 6-foot bed, back gear and all the accoutrements with which the best type of lathes is equipped. In the wood shop a testing tank, to be used in ascertaining the efficiencies of engines, is being built. The idea of the apparatus was evolved by Professors Benitz and Kelly. The engine under test is made to run a propellor blade, and the power developed by the engine is measured by the amount of water which the propellor forces over an inclined plane.
344	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Athletic Notes.
Basket-Ball.
Notre Dame, 35; Olivet, 15.
Olivet proved an easy victim for the Varsity Wednesday afternoon, and the difference between the scores might have been even greater if our quintet had played in their accustomed style. Although there were occasional periods of fast work the game as a whole was slow- and ragged. Alaloney as usual took the star-role in basket shooting, livening up the contest now and then by spectacular throws. Finnegan, Matthews and Walsh entered the game in the last part of the second half.
Field Goals—Martin 2, Naclitshein 3, Fish 2, Burke 1, Attley 1, Ulatowski 1, Freeze 2, Finnegan 1, Maloney S. Goals from Foul—Martin 5, Freeze 1, Maloney 2. Referee—Barrett.
* «■ *
Hope College defeated the Varsity at Holland, Michigan, 33—26.
The Inter-hall, basket-ball season was opened last week, Brownson being defeated by Corby 32-28.
* * * Track.
Sorin, 53; Old College, 42.
In the closely contested meet with Old College, Sorin succeeded in carrying away the victory, and thereby qualifying for the final triangular meet. Enthusiasm on both sides ran high, and almost every member of either hall tried his luck in some event. The number of athletic events to be recorded in this issue makes it impossible to do even partial justice to the men of Sorin and Old College. Let us, hope they will accept the will for the deed.
* ' * *
Corby, 46; Brownson, 40; Sorin, 9.
In the most closely contested and exciting interhall meet ever seen in the big gym Corby cinched the championship by defeating Brownson and Sorin. The relay, which decided the meet, was a nerve-racking affair from start to finish. Runners for Brownson, Sorin and Corby took the lead in turn and it appeared like anyone’s race. In the last lap Bergman entered the dash for the Corbyites, when both Campbell of Sorin and Duffy of Brownson were several yards in advance. Defeat for Corby seemed inevitable, but by a remarkable burst of speed Bergman cleared the intervening distance, catching up within a few feet of the line and passing over the white line only a few inches ahead of Duffy. Besides the prominent part displayed in winning the relay, the speedy little Corbyite took first in both hurdles as well
as in the 40-yard dash. Williams led for the Brownsonites with 16 points. Connell was a close second to Williams in the high jump and Regan pressed him hard in the leap. Foley with apparent ease won the mile in fairly good time. Brady won the half in fast time and by a large margin. Sippel established himself as the All-Hall quartermiler by annexing first place in the 440-yard dash. Huford, Rush, Dwyer, Campbell, Carrolon, O’Hara, McCarthy, -McGill, Jennings, Fish, McCann, Yund were also point winners.	'
The Summary.
40-yard dash—Bergman, C., 1st; Huford, Br., 2d; Fish, 3d. Time, 4 4-5.
High jump—Williams, Br. 1st; Connell, S., 2d; Regan. C-, 3d. Height, 5 feet 6 inches.
Mile run—Foley, C., 1st; Jennings, Br., 2d; O’Hara, S , 3d. Time, 5 minutes 2 seconds.
Shot put—Huford, 1st; Dwyer, S., 2d; Yund, C., 3d. Distance, 33 feet 916 inches.
440-yard dash—Sippel, Br., 1st; Fish, C.,2d; McCann, C., 3d. Time, 57 2-5.
40-yard low hnrdles—Bergman, 1st; Williams, 2d; Campbell, S., 3d. Time, 5 2-5.
Broad jump—Williams, 1st; Regan, 2d; McGill, 3d. Distance, 21.	-
40-yard high hurdles—Bergman, 1st; Williams, 2d; Campbell, 3d. Time, 5 4 5.	-
Pole vault—Rush, 1st; Daniels, Br.,2d; Carrolon, Br., 3d. Height, 9 feet.
Half-Mile—Brady, C., 1st; Jennings, Br., 2d; McCarthy, 3d. Time, 2:12 2-5.
Relay won bjr Corby.
' Baseball.
The position vacated by the resignation of Mr. Curtis has been accepted by Edward Smith, the well-known twirier of the South Bend “Bronchoes.” The new coach began work last Wednesday and will continue to direct the baseball practice until the opening of the Central League season.
The following schedule, which is complete save for 3 or 4 possible dates, has been prepared by Asst. Mgr. Lynch.
April 14—Kalazmazoo at Notre Dame
“	18—Michigan
“	21—Michigan Aggies
“	2S—Arkansas U.
“	29—Arkansas U.
May 4—Marquette
“	5—Wabash at
“	6—Wabash at
“	7—Beloit at
“	10—Olivet at
“	14—Rose “Poly” at
“	15-21—Trips
‘	‘	25—Cuban Stars at
“	26—Wabash at
June 1—U. of Virginia at
“	2—Michigan Aggies at Lansing
“	3—Michigan at	Ann Arbor
“	4—Michigan at	Ann Arbor
. Games may possibly be secured .with Minnesota and Columbia also. A series of practice games with the Grand Rapids Central League team will be held at Notre Dame and will begin April 9th.
cc	cc
U	CC
CC	cc
IC	cc
cc	cc
Crawfordsville Crawfordsville Notre Dame
CC	cc
cc	cc
Notre Dame <1	CC