i'his book is not to b-taken frost ths	/ /
.... ,
V
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
DECEMBER 9 1932
Here’s Where You
A REAL RETURN
from your
ADVERTISING DOLLARS
THE SCHOLASTIC is the official student news publication of the University of Notre Dame. Its readers come from every state in the Union and seventeen foreign countries.
Notre Dame’s three thousand students and their families, represent a prosperous and responsive market. Every student at Notre Dame reads THE SCHOLASTIC.
Through the influence of tradition, heredity and environment, Notre Dame men prefer to purchase from advertisers in their own publication.
IT’S A GOOD INVESTMENT TO
ADVERTISE IT
in the SCHOLASTIC
December 9, 1932
One
After College WHAT?
Put HEALTH
GOOD HEALTH means vitality. And it takes lots of energy to be a leader in the classroom, and in the social activities of college. So to succeed, you must make your health a required course.
Too often constipation is permitted to undermine health and sap vitality. It may cause headaches, loss of appetite and energy.
Try this pleasant “cereal way” to health. Two tablespoonfuls of Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN daily will promote regular, habits. It supplies “bulk,” vitamin B and iron. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat KrunMes, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
E. E. Wyman, Assistant to the President, Pan-American Airways System, says: "Aviation is sympathetic to the college graduate who has prepared himself. It demands, however, serious and thorough preparation: technical training, a natural aptitude for constant study of problems and conditions, and a natural enthusiasm for the tasks it develops.'
AVIATION requires a steady hand Zx for the pilot, a steady mind for the executive. And a good tobacco... like Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco... is mighty helpful in giving a man a steady hand, or a steady mind.
Only in Edgeworth will you find that indefinable distinctiveness that is brought about by a special blending of fine old hurleys. That’s why leading colleges have chosen it as their favorite tobacco.*
Want to try before you buy? Just drop a line to Larus SC Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., for your free sample pack. You’ll enjoy that cooling smoke that is so different.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
December S, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- 1	hk I	II	Entered as second-class
lished week’y at the Univers- I MA |V|OfFA I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I I IW I	W IxQlllv Wl UW LI W diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	,	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Lnsce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Monturus section 1103, October 3. 1917. cations Office, Main Building.	authorized June 25, 1918.
FOUNDED 1867
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY.........News	Editor
ROY SCHOLZ.......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN THOMAS PROCTOR JAMES BYRNE JOSEPH BUCCI.....ROBERT	ERVIN
JOHN McELLIGOTT •
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.....College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ .......Sports Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED .MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON
Features Staff -RAY WATERS....................Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY...Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH______Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager
HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
DECEMBER 9, 1932
No. 10
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Dec. 9.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., new“ Scholastic” offices; Ave Maria Building; news, sports and features staffs, 7:00 p. m., Adirondack Club meeting, 7:45 p. m., in Walsh Basement.
SATURDAY, Dec. 10.—Football: Varsity at Los Angeles with U. S. C.; Movie, “Symphony of Six Million,” with Ricardo Cortez and Irene Dunne, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 11.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, 10:30 a. m., Library.
MONDAY, Dec. 12.—Academy of Science mee'ting, Room 104, Science Hall; Band rehearsal, 4:15 p. m., Music Hall.
TUESDAY, Dec. 13.—Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, 6:30 p. m., Music Hall.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 14.—Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building; Patricians Meeting, 7:45 p. m., Law Building; Engineers Club meeting, 7:30 p. m., Engineering Building; Band rehearsal, 4:15 p. m., Music Hall.
THURSDAY, Dec. 15.—Spectators meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building; Concert, Symphony Orchestra, 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall.
SUMM ARY
NEWS
Thirteen Candidates Are Added to Mast Head of
The Scholastic_________________________5
U. S. C. Game Tomorrow Closes Football Season for
Notre Dame ........................... 5
New Editorial Quarters for Scholastic Staff Will Be
Officially Opened Tonight.......................... 6
Definite plans made for editing of K. C.’s Santa
Maria_______________________________________________7
Professor Kelley Supervises Survey of Students Interested in University Dramatics........................ 7
Talented Campus Journalists Contrbiute to 1932 Edition of “Football Review”..........................   8
V ’
FEATURES
Jack Jaeger, 321 Sorin Hall, Interviewed in “Man
About” ...................................... 8
A Reader Gives His Opinion on Interhall Football at
Notre Dame in “Voice of the Campus”.......... 9
A Study in the Beauty, Purpose, and Mode of Secular and Chant Music by John Sharpe, Music Student.-..12
Remembering the Twelfth Anniversary of the George Gipp Tragedy ....................................13
V
SPORTS
Basketball season opens in gym tonight as eagers
face Albion ...........................................18
Eighty candidates report for first indoor track practise..l8
Alumni beats Morrissey for Interhall football championship, 12 to 0......................................  20
1932 All-Interhall teams named___________________________20
Cagers to play Illinois Wesleyan Thursday................23
Splinters from the Press Box; Kearns says Notre Dame 14, U. S. C. 7...........................................25
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
ERY few students realized the significance of the Interhall game between Walsh and Alumni Halls for the championship of League II. The meeting of those two teams was the clashing of two famous athletic systems. Walsh Hall represented the Oxonian system, or football for the fun of playing. Alumni Hall represented the American system, or football played to win. This question has been debated in colleges for years but seldom has there been a chance to see the two theories work out in actuality. When you consider the personal pleasure gained by the Walsh Hall men in that game and then notice the closeness of the score, you realize that there might be something to this Oxonian system after all.
V
^X^ HE first comment of many people, upon reading of Father Nieuwland’s latest contribution to individual chemistry, SDO, was, “Isn’t science romantic!” They have the Tom Swift and Rover Boy idea of science. They never think of the disheartening hours away from the laboratory, the checking and rechecking of figures, the attempt to jockey equations that will not balance. They forget all the experiments before the right formula is discovered, the disappointment that comes when some test smashes a pet theory all to bits. Father Nieuwland is to be congratulated, not only on the success of his experiments with acetylene, but also on the patience that made SDO possible.
V
OOTBALL managers in the future should try to arrange for the team to leave some other time than seven-thirty in the morning, and especially Monday morning. It is not the hour so much as the day. Those who had their tomato juice and com flakes in the dining hall did gather at the post office to see the team leave, but the cheers were a little hollow. Bob Barret could have stolen the show by calling for a great big yawn for the team. That would have introduced something new into the science of silent cheering and in 1935 some irate alumnus could have written to the S. A. C. and opened his letter with: “Why I remember when the post office fairly trembled with the mighty yawn of a student body that knew the word FIGHT!”
V V ITH the Alumni - Morrissey game last Sunday, the Interhall football season ended. Alumni’s victory was not surprising. Credit must go to Coach Addonizio for putting out one of the best coached teams that interhall football has seen for years. The season is over but there are still many costly injuries to be accounted for. Interhall football has long been an institution around Notre Dame but this year many students refused to play because they could not risk the expense of possible injuries. If this fine tradition is to continue some system must be worked out where students, who like to play football but who cannot afford to take the risk, will be cared for in the event of accidents.
V
OTRE DAME opens its basketball season tonight. Last year the Irish were too busy moaning over the loss of the Army and Southern California football games to realize that they had one of the strongest cage teams in the country. The only one who realized it was Walter Winchell. In the middle of the 1931 football season he predicted that Notre Dame would have one of its greatest basketball teams. It did. Dropping two early-season tough games Notre Dame started out on a winning streak that lasted for sixteen games. In those sixteen games the Irish twice defeated each of their great basketball rivals, Pittsburgh and Northwestern. This year Coach Keogan must build a new team around Krause. It will mean a lot if they get off to a good start—and then the band probably has a couple of new pieces to offer.
V
X^HE senior class is worried. Professors reading this shouldn’t murmur, “It’s about time.” The worry is not caused by theses soon due or by approaching semester examinations. This sudden perturbation is occasioned by the disappearance of so many senior pins over the Thanksgiving holidays. It has usually been the custom to wait until Christmas before “losing” your pin. The saddest story we’ve heard so far was the story about the senior who asked to have his returned and the girl sent him somebody else’s Sigma Chi pin by mistake.
December 9, 1932
Five
13 CANDIDATES ADDED TO “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF
SEASON ENOS AS NOTRE DAME MEETS U. S. C. IN LOS ANGELES TOMORROW
Sophomores Predominate In New Selections.
The addition of 13 men to the staff of The Scholastic was announced this week by the editorial board with the approval of the Faculty Board of Publications.
Four of the men named to staff positions were assigned to sports work. James F.‘ McKeon, a sophomore in the Arts and Letters college, John Carbine, also an A. B. sophomore, Nick Connor, a freshman in the same college, and Howard Waldron, an A. B. junior, make up the group added to the sports staff.
Places Still Open.
J. D. Porterfield, a junior in the College of Science, Louis Giragi, an Arts and Letters freshman, and Paul Doyle, a sophomore in the A.B. college were named to place on the features staff.
The remaining six appointments were made to the news staff. This group included Edward Mansfield, Arts and Letters junior, Richard Tobin, Science junior, Thomas Proctor, James Byrne and Joseph Bucci, all sophomores in Arts and Letters, and Robert Ervin a sophomore in Science.
The new staff members have been working on regular assignments for about two months and have become well familiarized with the routine work of The Scholastic.
A large number of candidates still remain and a further selection will be made at a later date.
Patricians to Hold Next
Meeting Wednesday, Dec. 14
According to Robert Flint, President, the Patricians will meet Wednesday, December 14, at 7:45 p. m., in the classics room of the Law Building. David Powers, a major in the department of classics, will deliver a paper on, “The Women In Greek Literature.”
This will be the first of a series of three papers that will be delivered by seniors majoring in the classics. All members of the Patricians, as well as all students of the classics, are most cordially invited.
N. D. Debaters Out-Talk Purdue Team in Meet at
Lafayette Saturday A. M. ■
Superior speaking ability, more logical arguments, and well sustained evidence brought the initial victory of the debating season to the Notre Dame varsity team which met Purdue Unversity at Lafayette, Ind., Saturday morning before the Conference of the Indiana High School Debaters.
Decision Close
Professor Weiss of Albion College rendered the exceptionally close decision in favor of Notre Dame. William Kirby; who has been the backbone of the University debating teams for the past few years, insured the Notre Dame cause by his polished speech and analytical rebuttal.
Joseph Becek, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was the other man on the local team and assisted Kirby in matching arguments with their Purdue opponents, T. B. Speaker and R. F. Young.
The question was stated as follows: “Resolved, that the government should own and operate all hydroelectric power plants.” Notre Dame upheld the affirmative side of the question, while Purdue presented arguments in favor of the negative.
Stress Lower Rates
Joseph Becek, the first speaker of the affirmative, stressed the evils of the present system of private ownership not under government control. He succeeded well in laying the ground-work for further discussions. William Kirby, in pointed arguments, propounded the fact that government ownership would be practical and also showed it would benefit the people in the form of lower rates for electricity.
The Purdue men strongly opposed these statements and contended that our present system is not a failure; that our rates are lower at the present time under private ownership than they are in municipally owned plants. The argument in reference to rates was the strongest one presented by the negative side.
Kirby, who spoke unusually well, presented a rebuttal that swept aside many of the important points of the (Continued on Page 10)
IRISH OUT FOR REVENGE
Injuries Balk Victory Chances As Five Men Leave Hospital To Make Western Trip.
■ By Leslie Raddatz
Tomorrow afternoon Captain Paul Host leads his Notre Dame team in the final game of the season. Southern California is the last of the teams against whom Notre Dame is looking
Captain Paul Host Tomorrozv Will Tell
for revenge this year. Northwestern has been defeated after last year’s tie, and Army has been beaten after last year’s victory.- Now Southern California waits with the strongest team in the west and one of the strongest in the country.
Eighteen Straight
Since the first game defeat by St. Mary’s last year, the Pacific Coast team has been undefeated — eighteen straight games. With a national championship and two Pacific Coast championships to. its credit, Southern California is the favorite in tomorrow’s game.
The Southern California record to date stands: U. S. C. 35, Utah 0; U. S. C. 20, Washington State 0; U. S. C. 10, Oregon State 0; U. S. C. 6, Loyola (Los Angeles) 0; U. S. C. 13, Stanford 0; U. S. C. 27, California (Continued on Page 28)
Six
The-Scholastic
New Editorial Rooms For
“Scholastic” In Use Tonight
N.D.TO BE REPRESENTED AT PHILOSOPHY MEET
MEETING AT SEVEN
Board of Publications Equips Part of “Ave” Building
For General Offices.
Tonight will mark an advance in facilities for the student publications. The Scholastic staff will meet for the first time in its new quarters. Located in the same building as the printing establishment are a general assembly room, Scholastic editorial room, and studio for the Dome.
Entrance is through the archway f at the center of the building. In theZ^ future, all Scholastic copy should be deposited in the box if the outer door of the editorial room is not open.
Arrange Celebration
Facilities are also provided for the distribution of the Juggler and Scrip. Arrangements for an appropriate celebration of the opening will be made at the meeting tonight.
All staff members will meet in the new quarters at 7 o’clock tonight rather than in Room 222, Main building.
Knights Hold Communion Breakfast Last Sunday
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., addressed the Knights of Columbus at their Communion breakfast last Sunday in the lay faculty dining room on the subject of shared experience. Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., Chaplain, also spoke to the members.
Father Miltner stated that an experience that is shared is incomparably more enjoyable than a solitary experience. He pointed out that this statement is true because men everywhere love to do things in common. They seem in this to be imitating the action of the Creator Himself.
Father Reynolds, in a brief address, urged the members to continue in their fine work shown thus far this year. Grand Knight Cahill stressed the importance of cooperation among the knights.
The next meeting is scheduled for Monday, evening, December 12.
Wranglers Are Presented With Interhall Debating Cup By Victor Lemmer
Victor F. Lemmer, ’26, has presented the Wranglers’ society with a splendid trophy, to be awarded to the winner of the interhall debating competition.
Lemmer, while at Notre Dame was a member of the Wranglers, and at one time held the position of secretary of that organization. The donation served as his expression of interest in forensic activities at the University, and he offered it, stating that the trophy was to become a permanent award to be given each year to the team which won the championship.
24-inch Trophy
The trophy itself is an expertly designed piece, standing 24 inches high, including the base. Four graceful pillars support the conventional goddess of Victory, as she extends the laurel wreath above her head.
“The Wranglers are indeed grateful to Victor F. Lemmer for the beautiful trophy which he has presented. It is a worthy reward to the team that has successfully gone through the interhall debating elimination,” said James Boyle, president of the society, when the donation was received.
Arrangements for the final debate with Dillon meeting Howard, are nearing completion, and both teams are preparing their constructive speeches, it was announced by Arthur Sandusky, chairman of the debating committee of the Wranglers.
Dan Loomis’ Orchestra Will
Play for Detroit Club Dance
Final plans for the Christmas dance of the Detroit club were announced this week by Edmund L. Moriarity, chairman of the dance committee.
Dan Loomis and his orchestra have been engaged for the affair which will be held on Wednesday evening, Dec. 28, at the Book-Cadillac hotel in Detroit.
Tickets purchased on the campus will be $3.50.
Fr. Miltner, Prof. O’Grady Will Go to Detroit.
Notre Dame will be represented at the annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Society in Detroit, December 28th and 29th by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Professor Daniel C. O’Grady. Father Miltner, head of the Department of Philosophy, is vice-president of the Philosophical Society.
The meeting for 1932 will take place at the Sacred Heart Seminary' ' * in Detroit. It includes discussions of _ . “Present Scholastic Problems of Re- ~ alism,” “Realism and the New Physical Theories,” Psychological Aspects -of Current Realism” and “The Organic Realism of Whitehead,” etc.
Professor O’Grady will discuss the	•
subject of realism under the heading - i of “Anti-Realistic Tendencies.” In ad- _ dition to the formal papers presented there will be round table discussions - • on such subjects as ethical probems arising from “Modern Nationalism,” “Truth in the New Realism,” and • “The Present Status of the Vitalism- -Mechanism.”
It is probable that several members of the Notre Dame Department of Philosophy will be in attendance, while not actively representing the University. The meeting will be open • to the public.
Pre-Law Club in Session in Law Building Tuesday
The Pre-Law Club held its third meeting of the year in the Court Room of the Law Building last Tuesday night.
An informal discussion was held under the direction of President James Jennings in which the business matters of the club were brought up for settlement. Suggestions for the club’s activities during the next semester, including plans for a banquet of the members, was outlined by Vice-President Art Korzenski.
Arrangements are being made to acquire a speaker for every other meeting from the different colleges of the University. The next meeting will be held on the first Tuesday after the Christmas holidays.
December 9, 1932
THEATRE SURVEY IS
CONDUCTED BY KELLEY

Fifty Present at Meeting of University Players.
The University Theater held its first assemblage in Washington Hall Wednesday afternoon at 12:30. Fifty students were present at the session. Professor Frank Kelley, head of the Department of Speech and Drama, and director of University productions, presided.
' The purpose of the meeting was to determine the dramatic qualities and abilities of the applicants. In a brief introductory speech, Prof Kelley outlined the schedule of the University Theater for the ensuing year.
New Try-out System
“A copy of the play,” remarked Professor Kelley, to be presented will be given to any of the applicants to be read through. Then the applicant will enable himself to determine whether or not he is suitable for the part.”
If the applicant feels that his ability meastires up to the requirements of the characters in the tentative play, he may present himself for a trial. In this manner weak, wearisome tests that bring no results will be eliminated.
Through this plan Prof. Kelley believes that he will be enabled to get in touch with a wider variety of talent. If the results are favorable, Director Kelley expects to be able to present plays with two or three complete casts, alternating in presenting the same play.
, Seminar In Dramatics?
On the questionnaire filled out by the students, is a question proposing the establishment of a seminar in dramatics. The project is not intended to be of an academic nature. The purpose of the seminar will be to foster the interests of the person who is interested in drama, as well as to develop this interest so that he will be able to intelligently criticize plays seen outside the realm of the University.	’
Anyone interested in scenery effects, or stage work, is also asked to report to Director Kelley. There will be another meeting of those interested in dramatics before the Christmas holidays.
~	Sevens
Definite Plans Made For Editing of “Santa Maria”
Blessing At Christmas Novena Dependant Upon 700 Student Signatures
If Notre Dame students wish to avail themselves of the blessings of the Christmas Novena of Devotion, seven hundred of them must sign cards issued for that purpose, promising to spend a certain half hour before the altar. Without this guaranty the special permission of the Most Reverend Bishop of Fort Wayne to conduct the Novena will not be utilized. The Novena will start Sunday night and come to a close Monday, Dec. 19, the Blessed Sacrament being exposed ten hours daily. These adoration cards, with a definite half hour set on them, when signed will insure five men before the tabernacle at all times.
Engineer’s Club Meeting
The assistant superintendent of the technical data department, Ernest Farrell, of the General Motors proving grounds will address the members of the Engineer’s club Wednesday night, Dec. 14, at 7:45 p. m. in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
• Mr. Farrell’s talk on the tests made at the proving grounds and their effects on automobiles should prove of interest to all engineers.
NOTICE ENGLISH MAJORS!
The University of Notre Dame English Department has recently issued a bulletin of importance to English majors. Beginning the second semester of the current scholastic year, English 4M will be discontinued as a course in the curriculum. Furthermore a one hour course of lectures dealing with the writing of the theses will be available to junior English majors every Tuesday at 4:00 p. m. in Room 2 of the Administration Building.
APPROPRIATE $350
Local Magazine Goes on Nation-wide Circulation Basis; Becklenberg Happy.
At a meeting of a special committee yesterday in the K. C. offices, a fund of $350 was appropriated for the publication of The Santa Maria, official news-organ of the Notre Dame coun-
Fred Becklenberg “Everything is all set.”
cil, Knights of Columbus. The committee was composed of the trustees of the local council, Grand Knight Cahill, Editor-in-Chief Fred Becklenberg and the staff membeers of The Santa Maria.	■
2-500 Circulation
Although the appropriation was the first definite action taken this year in behalf of the publication, preliminary steps have been in order since September. Contact has already been made with the printers, and the size and content of the magazine have been determined.
While The Santa Maria has, in the past, been distributed only among members of the local council, Becklenberg intends to increase circulation to nation-wide proportions so that a copy will find its way into every one of the 2,500 councils throughout the United States.
»
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
FOOTBALL REVIEW WILL BE ON SALE DEC. 19TH
By J. D. Porterfield
The typewriter had rounded the far turn and was just coming into the stretch as we knocked at 321 Sorin. There are times when no man should be interrupted, but Jack Jaeger bid us come in as cheerily as though we were the -mailman with material for the next round. We entered, tripped over the bed and sat down, noting happily that Jack ends his letters in conventional Notre Dame style. A man’s education in the Journalism course is not complete unless he can satisfactorily end a letter, be it addressed ever so near, and Monsieur Jaeger has made the most of his four years in the school of writing.
Brill Is The Best
A native of Chicago, Jack went to DePaul Academy where he presided over the senior class and played football. Jack is as rabid and dyed-in-the wool fan as ever threw a pop bottle, and will take on any and all bets at any odds that the Irish (New York papers please copy) will win any game. He is ready on all occasions to take off his coat and go down on the field to protest a point, and has the sorest throat on campus after a pep meeting. He thinks Marty Brill is the best football player he has ever seen, and he has seen many. The only time he bothers to sit down at a football game is between halves or when the lady next to him faints and requires an aspirin. (Don’t you guys read Joe Kurth’s column?)
Press Club Prexy
Majoring in Journalism, Jack is President of the Press club, a member of the Knights of Columbus and, naturally an active member of the Chicago club. You cannot conceive of Jaeger being a member without being an active one. That’s the kind of a fellow he is. After completing his course this June, he intends to continue his studies at Harvard Graduate schools. (Jack lives in a single, so we are unable to put in the usual roommate wisecrack at this juncture.)
An exclusive patron of the Gold Coast element, Jack traces his residences 'from Howard, Morrissey and Alumni to Sorin.. And of them all, he claims Sorin as the best, not only the best he has lived in but the best on campus. And this despite the fact that this year he is deprived of a
receptacle for old razor blades. He claims he. uses them anyway.
Last year Jack was intimately connected, like his friend, Jim Munn,
Jack Jaeger
A fainting lady called for an aspirin.
with the campaign of the Mystery Man for class president. He swears he’ll never forget shinnying up ten feet of the telephone pole near Dillon to tack up a campaign promise, and hearing a heart-rending rip from behind him. Neither will he forget walking from the gym to Alumni in a tuxedo and all the fixings, including a wing collar one (1) size too small.
* Despite the fact that all his friends swear he’s never been on time for an appointment, and that only a half hour late is good running time for him, we have statistics to prove he has been the third man into the dining hall every evening since September.
Father Brennan’s Pal
This summer Jack held down the position of quarterback on Father Brennan’s Four Horsemen. But the going became too rough, when Empiricism was introduced as the topic of the moment.
Altogether a hail fellow well met, he even offered us a cigarette before the evening was half over. And offering a cigarette in this day and age is a sure sign of a man’s character. Therefore we say he is of the best. A man of violent likes and no dislikes, and a true Notre Dame man, we give you Jack Jaeger.
Petritz Announces Outstanding Contributor List.
Boasting one of the greatest collections of journalistic talent that it has ever presented, the Official Football Review neared completion this week, according to Editor-in-Chief Joseph S. Petritz who stated that the gridiron annual will appear Dec. 19.
The cover for this year’s Revieiv has been done by Arthur N. Becvar, art editor of the Juggler. Other camp us contributors to the book include William Flynn, Walter Kennedy, Leslie Raddatz, J. A. McElligott, Edmund Moriarity, Edmund Stephan and James S. Kearns.
Rice To Contribute
Editor Petritz has secured exclusive material from many of the country’s outstanding writers, as well as reprints of the best write-ups following each of the Irish games.
Included in the list of notable writers are Grantland Rice, George Trevor, Christy Walsh, Lawrence Perry, Bert McGrane, Arch Ward, Warren Brown, Pat Flanagan, and Ted Husing.
In addition to Becvar’s cover, art work in the Review is to include special drawings by Feg Murray of the Metropolitan Newspaper Service and Werner Laufer of N. E. A. One of Fontaine Fox’s famous cartoons will also appear.
New Make-up Scheme
The editor and his assistants have worked out many new layouts for the page arrangements. As in former years, the book will present a complete photo section of the Irish varsity players as well as action pictures, and feature shots of all kinds.
Among the many written features are the stories of Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Trioune, Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, Ed Bang of the Cleveland News, Mark Kelly, sports editor of the Los Angeles Times, Jimmy Corcoran, of the Chicago Evening American, and;Pat Flanagan and Ted Husing, prominent sports announcers. *	:
Stories of the Irish games have been reprinted from the writeups of Jack Ledden, Harry MscNamara,
(Continued on Page 21)
December 9, 1932
Nine
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO PLAY NEXT WEEK
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
First Concert To Be Given Thursday Evening.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials u-ill be used upon request.
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will present its first concert of the scholastic year Thursday evening at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Professor Richard Siedel, of the Department of Music, who directs the Symphony was a member of the Chicago Symphony orchestra for 30 years. He organized a string ensemble at Notre Dame which was replaced by the Symphony last year. Appearing twice last year the orchestra presented well executed programs which merited much praise.
The response to this years call for musicians resulted in a noticeable improvement in the entire organization.
The program is as follows:
Part I.
Overture. “The Masic Flute”...W. A. Mozart Symphony in G major, (Surprise) . .J. Haydn Adagio cantabile, vivace assae—andante Minu-etto, allegro molto—allegrodi molto.
Pait II.
Andante rostenuto
Allegro non troppo
from Ballet Egyptian..
............A. Luigini
“Sleeping Beauty” Valse. —P. Tachasikowsky “French Military March” from Suite Al-
gerienne ..................C.	Saint-Saens
The personnel of the 1932-33 symphony orchestra is as follows:
First Violin—Joseph S. Petritz, concertmaster ; Robert J. Klaiber, Thomas F. Paradise, Brother Bernadine, C.S.C.. George W. Barber, James C. Fesler, William Klima Nicholas P. Romanko.
Second Violin—Michael J. Yriberry, John J. Desmond. Lloyd Teske, Donald M. Draper, Joseph A. Bucci, Francis Donovan. Otto Reymer, Martin A. Hendele.
Viola—John Ben Beyrer, Prof. W. L. Groom.
Cello—Brother Paul, C.S.C., Prof. F. H. Ingersoll.
Bass—Francis M. Joyce.
Flute—Philip W. Ott.
Clarinet—Edward J. Zimmers, Paul R. Locher, John Locher, Jr., John P. Youngen. Paul Halbert.
Trumpet—John F. Murphy, Roy O. Scholz, Edward F. Theis.
Trombone—Charles N. Fiore.
French Horn—Prof. LeClair H. Eels.
Saxophone—Alfied J. Hiegel, Theodore J. Hiegel, Edward H. Kilmurry, Charles Dohn-alek.
Piano—John Sharpe.
VANISHING ART
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
During the past few weeks there has been much criticism concerning the attitude of the student body towards the Varsity. Various graduates, still full of youthful pep and enthusiasm, it seems, have spoken of past glories, and have aroused the spirit of our impressionable freshmen to a fever pitch. While our upper classmen have seemed a bit jaded, blase, or whatever one wishes to term it, I feel that there is a still more serious problem to be faced, one that is real, not merely in the minds of our youthful graduates, but in the minds of all of us. That is—the passing of Interhall Football.
The interhall game problem has been an institution at this school. In the old days the hall teams would almost make a second varsity. Brownson Hall and the others produced many star players who finally graduated to the varsity. It has been the boast of our Publicity Department as to just how many of the students engage in some form of football every Fall. Altogether it has been a great institution, a useful one, one that really did give the average student a chance to engage in a great game.
However, something is happening to this institution, something that threatens its very existence. When I came here as a freshman the sport was taken seriously. We had a large squad, and the practice hours were long and hard. Each year there has been a little let-up .until this year has brought a serious situation. In one of the two leagues two teams dropped out for want of players; in the other, one team, which had been meeting with reverses, had to be coaxed into remaining in the league. Each team, except for the Freshmen Halls, has hardly enough players out to enable their coaches to put a full team on the field. The upper-classmen, it is true, show up for the games, and thus they play and have their practice at one and the same time.
If this situation continues it can lead to only one end, the abolition of
Interhall Football at Notre Dame. This would constitute a serious loss, and something would be gone from Notre Dame which could never be replaced. In the past it has been a clean, hard, and exciting sport, one that the students liked to play and to watch. Let us hope that it will resume its former position of power in our school life in the coming years.
P. F.
Vacation Rules Announced By Director of Studies
According to the announcement of Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, the Christmas vacation is to begin at 4:05 p. m. on •Tuesday, the 20th of December, and classes are to be resumed at 8:00 a. m. on Wednesday, the 4th of January. The students’ attention is called to the fact that absence from the first class after the Christmas, or the Easter recess, or from the first class at the beginning of the second semester, counts as three absences. The student is further warned that absences from class on account of illness are counted in the number of absences permitted.
Interrupted Plans
Therefore, the student should be careful to save his permissible absences for cases of necessity, so that he may not lose credit for his courses From this it seems that those who had high hopes of starting their vacation December 17, holiday time being advanced on account of the Southern California victory, better -stick to the grindstone ’til the 20th rolls around.
Finally the announcement advises those students who were deficient at the midsemester to ask their teachers for suggestions in regard to the improvement of their work to make more sure of passing in their courses at the end of the semester.
Not a dollar in the United States Treasury is so sacred that it must stay there when we have men walking the streets in search of work they cannot find.—Senator Borah.
Ten
The Scholastic
“CHRISTMAS” JUGGLER ON SALE NEXT WEEK
TWO EXCELLENT PAPERS PRESENTED AT ACADEMY OF SCIENCE MEET
NEW DIRECTOR NAMED FOR ART GALLERIES
Anonymous Funny Man Sends Play to “Scholastic.”
Scene: The drawing-room of the Girl’s home.
Time: The night before Christmas.
He: (put yourself in his place) enters, glowing with health and vigor and other contributing circumstances. He carries a package.
He: I—uh—got a little somethin’ for you here . . .
She: Oh, you Dear! I’ll bet it’s a Juggler!
He: (shamefacedly) Well, no dear, it isn’t exactly. It’s a - Christmas present.
She: Not a Juggler?
He: No, dear, its that necklace of Kobinoor diamonds you were talking about.
She: Yes, but where’s the Juggler I wrote you for? You said you’d surely-bring one ...
He: ((embarrassed) Well, to tell the truth, dear—I forgot it . . .
She: You mean you left it at home?
He: Well ...
She: Oh, I’m so glad you brought one! I think the’re worth twice what they ask for them, don’t you?
He: Well, I meant to, honest, but—
She: (crying inconsolably) And . . .
I . . . thought you were different than those other Notre Dame men I knew . . .
Enter, the Girl’s Mother and Father.
Father: Here, here what’s the matter with my little girl?
She: (sobbing) He . . . He . . . Forgot to bring the Juggler . . .
Father and Mother: (together, indignantly) What! Forgot the Juggler!
There is a silences of several moments, while the Father and Mother glare balefully at the youth.
Father: (sternly) Young man, I’m afraid I’ve been a little too lenient in my appraisal of you. You’re not the kind of fellow that I want calling on my daughter. Go!
Mother and Daughter (in chorus) : And never darken our threshold again!
CURTAIN
Well, there you are. Just a typical case, boys—the kind of thing that
Henry Gannon and Robert Lesage addressed the members of the Academy of Science at a meeting held last week.
Gannon, a junior in the College of Science, read a paper entitled “The Voyage of the Challenger.” This voyage was undertaken primarily to study the ocean and secondarily to gather data in the sciences of zoology, chemiestry, botany and physics.
Some of the instruments used in _ collecting the data were illustrated and explained during the talk. The “Challenger” sailed in December 1872 and remains today the greatest scien- -tific cruise ever attempted.
Fr. Wenninger Speaks
Robert T. Lesage, also a junior in the College of Science, presented “Some Facts on the History of the Circulatory System.” He traced the history through the ages in which the explanations offered were such as “the heart is the center of the system and its boiling causes the blood to flow through the body,” through the time of Vesalius and Galen up to 1628 when William Harvey published his disquisition on the circulation of the blood.
Francis A. Dineen and Francis E. Ehret, sophomore members of the Academy were the critics of the respective papers.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science and moderator of the Academy, addressed the meeting following the presentation of the papers. He commended the participants in the program and stated that he is highly pleased with the work being accomplished by the Academy this year.
might happen to you. And if you ■ haven’t a girl, why your own folks might pull the same act on you. It’s not worth the gamble, men. You never can tell what will happen when people don’t get their Jugglers. So go home with the assurance that you’ll please the girl and the folks and us too, though we are very shy about mentioning it. Save your pennies for the big CHRISTMAS JUGGLER ON SALE DECEMBER 15th!
Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, Chicago Expert, Appointed Tuesday.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced Tuesday that Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, prominent art authority of Chicago, has been appointed director of the Wightman Memorial art galleries at Notre Dame.
Dr. Goldblatt has been associated with various recovery projects in the field of painting for many years. At one time he was commissioned by Edouard Herriot, director of the National Art Galleries of France, to search for works of Jean Parreal which had apparently been lost. Dr. Goldblatt succeeded in finding six of the missing originals.
Authority On da Vinci
Previous to that time he had uncovered approximately 50 paintings by Andreas Salaino that had been lost for years. More recently he has been working in Chicago, his home city. He has found nearly 150 old masters there in private collections and in private homes. A Corot painting, valued at $100,000 was found and identified by him.
Doctor Goldblatt is recognized especially as an authority on Leonardo da Vinci, having devoted years of study and research to da Vinci’s paintings.
(Continued on Page 30)
DEBATERS WIN
(Continued from Page 5)
negative with such an air that Speaker and Young had little opportunity to offer objections.
The audience, one of about 500, was composed of Indiana high school students and their debating coaches. The purpose of this debate was to familiarize the high school students with the subject and offer them an insight into the manner in which they should conduct their own debates on the subject.
After the debate, Professor William Coyne, member of the University Speech Department and coach of the Notre Dame team, explained the strategy of the affirmative side, while Professor Winch of Purdue spoke on the presentation of the negative argument.
December 9, 1932
Eleven
BIG TICKET DEMAND FOR CHICAGO CLUB FORMAL
Chairman Woods Forced To Rent More Space. %
As the result of the unforeseen rush the Chicago Club has been forced to engage the Pompeian, in addition to the Joseph Urban Room,
Tighe Woods
Keeps his favors a secret.
in the Congress Hotel, for its Christmas party. A second orchestra will be announced in the near future.
Those who wish to make their reservations in the Joseph Urban Room should see Tighe Woods in 325 Walsh Hall at once, as there are only seventy-five reservations now available in that room. At a meeting of the officers and executive board it was decided that favors would be given at this dance, as in former years. The favor, especially designed for the Chicago Club by the A. G. Balfour Company of Attleboro, Massachusetts, will be kept a secret until the night of the dance.
REQUIESCAT IN PACE
Early Sunday morning, December 4, James Manion, sophomore in the College of Commerce, died in St. Joseph’s hospital, Omaha, Nebraska, on his way home to Creighton. He had been in the Infirmary a few days when his physician advised him to go home until after the holidays. He had almost reached there when he was stricken.
A Requiem Mass was offered in Sacred Heart Church on Tuesday morning for the repose of his soul.
The Scholastic, the faculty, and student body of Notre Dame join in extending sincerest sympathies to the bereaved parents and friends of the deceased.
W. J. CORBETT PRESENTS PHILOSOPHY FUND TO NOTRE DAME LIBRARY
The University library has recently received a gift of one thousand dollars from W. J. Corbett of Chicago; the money is to be used for the purchase of philosophical works. This addition to the library when completed will be called the W. J. Corbett Research Library in Philosophy.
Doctorate Soon Available
The majority of the works will pertain to Mediaeval Scholastic Philosophy. They are intended for use in graduate work. At present, Notre Dame offers no doctorate in the field of philosophy proper, although work is offered leading to the master’s degree. According to plans already maturing, the Department of Philosophy will offer doctoral work within the next few years.
Father Phillip Moore, C.S.C., who is an Enfield Scholar to Paris from the Catholic university in Washington, is now purchasing the books. He has already presented lists of the foremost works of the ages and from these lists several titles have been selected.
W. J. Corbett, Jr., was graduated from the university in 1927.
Commerce Forum Plans New Survey on Clothes
The Commerce Forum has prepared a new survey to be conducted among the students during the next few days.
This new survey is being made in an effort to ascertain the preferences of the students for the various brands of clothing and the reasons for their discrimination in the selection of their wardrobes.
The prices, styles, brands, and designs which appeal to the individual are sought in the questions of the survey.
The data received from this questionnaire will be compiled and presented to the members of the Forum for examination and study.
ATTENTION!
Preregistration for the second semester for juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters will be Dec. 12-17, inclusive, and Jan. 9-14, inclusive.
FATHER M’AYOY TRACES MISSIONARY HISTORY
University Archivist Shows Unbroken Line from 1685.
A paper on the early missionaries of the Notre Dame region, entitled “Father Badin Comes to Notre Dame,” will be delivered tonight before the Indiana Conference of History in general session at the Claypool hotel in Indianapolis by the Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., archivist of the University.
In his paper Father McAvoy will show that Notre Dame is- the heir to the St. Joseph mission, founded one hundred and fifty years before the coming of Father Sorin. In 1685, according to tradition, the first mission founded in this part of the country was located a few miles north of the present university grounds and was attended by French missionaries.
Original Log Chapel
In virtually an unbroken succession, missionaries succeeded one another, until the time of Father Stephen Theodore Badin who changed his residence from St. Joseph mission to a small cabin at St. Marie des Lac. That cabin was the original of the present log chapel located just west of the library.
Father Badin was succeeded by Father DeSeilie who also resided in the cabin and who died there in 1837. After that the mission was cared for by itinerant missionaries until the arrival of Father Sorin and the six Brothers of Holy Cross on November 26, 1842.
N. D. First A Mission
Father McAvoy’s paper traces this line of missionaries through the long span of years and, from the evidence compiled, concludes that the present Notre Dame is the direct heir of the first St. Joseph mission, founded in 1685.
The Indiana History Conference, at which the paper is to be presented, is being held today and tomorrow under the auspices of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, the Indiana Historical Society, and the State Historical Bureau. Prominent historians from all parts of the state are in attendance.
The degree of intelligence exercised by all of us certainly doesn’t seem to entitle us to much credit as wideawake men.—Melvin A. Traylor.
Tivelve
The Scholastic
Chant Vs. Secular Music;
Student Evaluates Both
SURVEY REVIEWS THESIS OF FATHER FOGARTY
By John Sharpe
A strange thing it is that in opera we have come to realize the necessity of the music’s illustrating and vitalizing the libretto, yet with regard to church music we are, most of us, blind to the fact that the “music must pray, the prayer must sing.” Such a scene as occurs in Puccini’s “La Bo-heme” wherein the consumptive Mimi bellows a death-bed aria that would tax the lungs of a jeweled and full-bosomed Wagnerian soprano and is now considered not an art form but an absurdity. It follows, then, that if in opera we adhere to the law of drama as the law of music, we must cling to prayer as the law of song in church.
Excesses
Too often is music in our churches treated as an attraction, a performance, rather than as a stimulus to communion with the unseen. We allow ourselves to be content with mere beauty of melody, preferring to the monodic simplicity of the Chant such dithyrambic drivel as Rossini’s “Sta-bat Mater” (a set of tunes reeking ■with the smell of sour ale and bad tobacco) and Gounod’s tinsel-trapped “Ave Maria” which not only distorts this beautiful prayer, but completely stifles the classic beauty of Bach’s “First Prelude.”
Spirit Of Church Music
Secular music with its involved structures, its colored harmonic beauties, its fixed measures and regular beats has the rhythm of poetry, and directs its appeal primarily to the emotions. For these reasons it is not suitable for church use. Can you imagine a priest singing the “Pater Noster” in waltz time, or a congregation standing five hours while the choir sings John Sebastian Bach’s “St. Matthew’s Passion”.? Chant, on the other hand, is simple, objective, unisonous, prosaic, and raises the heart to that which elevates and purifies. Because it assumes the selfsame shape of the words of the prayers, as a form of music for church it is incomparable.	.
Secular music has two modes; Chant has eight. The modal limitations of laic music are evident even in its highest form — the symphony. This form cannot intermingle a di
versity of moods: it must be joyous in the allegro, hypochondriac in the andante, coltish in the scherzo and impetuous in the finale. But out religion is not so obvious as secular music or the symphonic form. We are not sorrowful for ten minutes, frisky for fifteen and then passionate for five. Sad and happy thoughts are so interwoven in our liturgy (as they are in our daily lives) that it is impossible to unravel them. Even in the wild joyous Easter “Alleluias” there lurches remembrance of the rood and the tomb. This intermixing of moods finds adequate and full expression in the eight modes of the Chant.
Origin Of Chant
For the origin of the Chant we must go back to early Christianity. As we know from the records of the Apostles and other sources, the first Christians were Jews. As a nation, however, the Hebrews were none too spontaneous in their acceptance of Christ’s theories, and the Apostles soon set sail for Greece, a nation at that time so advanced in musical progress that a woman was not considered a virgin if she played “the soft complaining flute.” That the earliest Chant should be a combination of Greek and Hebrew airs seems only natural.	.
From generation to generation was this Chant transmitted by oral tradition, much in the manner of our earliest epics, until the conversion of Constantine and his subsequent establishment of singing schools. Realizing that oral tradition is, at best ,unreliable, St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, not only undertook the reduction of these melodies to a reliable, definite system, but also revived the four “authentic modes” of the ancient Greeks. Two hundred years later, Gregory the Great in his “Antipho-narium” collected and revised the Ambrosian themes, adding to these his own melodies. Not only did this celebrated work of' Gregory’s preserve the’ Chant from corruption, but it also perfected the whole system of plain-song by its introduction of the “plagal modes.” For centuries after the death of Gregory many corruptions crept into the Chant.
At the beginning of this century a (Continued on Page 29)
Dissertation on State Aid Receives Comment.
By Michael Wiedl
In the November mid-monthly of The Survey magazine, the Rev. James Fogerty, C. S. C., formerly of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., and now professor of Economics and Sociology here at the University of Notre Dames, was awarded high praise for his “doctor’s dissertation,” as The Survey styled it, on “State Aid in Several Forms of Public Relief.”
The following, entitled “The Wide Spread of State-Aid is the appraisal of his work as stated in The Survey.
Part Not An Isolated Unit
“The participation of the states in welfare activities, which, less than a generation ago, were considered the sole concern of local units of government, has progressed so rapidly that only when the whole picture is brought together is its extent realized. In his doctor’s dissertation, “State Aid in Several Forms of Public Relief,” the Rev. James Fogerty, C. S. C., of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., has surveyed the whole development and has reached the conclusion that the local unit can no longer be considered as an isolated unit in the treatment of any social question, but rather as an integral part of a larger composite entity—the state!
A Valuable Reference
“Father Fogerty explains the widely differing policies and functional relationships that have grown up in state-aid to education, to highway construction and to the care of dependents, from the beginning of nstii-tutional care of the insane to the present state for the unemployment relief. His chapter on The State and Emergency Programs should be carefully studied by anyone concerned problems of the winter. The volume will long be a valuable reference on the whole subject of the expanding social functions of government.”
Father Fogarty did all hi? research work in Washington, D. C., where he taught at the Catholic University of America. In September he was transferred to the faculty here and since then has been teaching Economics and Sociology.
-
December 9, 1932
Thirteen
FRESHMEN NOMINATE CLASS PRESIDENT TODAY
Primaries at Twelve - Thirty; Finals Dec. 13.
At a lively session Sunday, December 3, the Student’s Activities Council, with James Gerend presiding, discussed and made plans for the Freshman Class election. President Gerend expressed his satisfaction at the large number in attendance and described the meeting as the most satisfactory one of the current year.
Under the supervision of the S.A.C. officials the members of the Freshman Class met in the gymnasium today at 12:30 for the purpose of nominating two of their classmen for each of the following offices: president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer.
The names of the two men who received the largest number of votes for each of these offices will be printed on ballots and voted upon by the freshmen, Tuesday, December 13, between the hours of 12:30 and 5:00 o’clock in the Carroll Recreation Hall. Officials of the S.A.C. will conduct the election and make known the returns at the end of the day.
The President of the Student’s Activity Council requested the freshmen to vote as early as possible in order to avoid last minute confusion. The method of procedure in this election will be the same as that of past elections. Those qualified to vote will present themselves to the officials in charge, to be identified, will receive a ballot, and will vote for their respective candidates.
Deadline For Sullivan Scholarships Dec. 19th.
Students are reminded that December the 19th is the last day on which applications will be accepted for the Roger Sullivan Scholarship. All applications must be made in writing to Reverend W. H. Molony, C.S.C., Chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes.
“Catalyzer” Out Next Week
The Catalyzer, the monthly publication of the Chemistry Department, will not be out this week as previously planned, according to Frank Jenny, the editor. The holiday on Thursday will delay the appearance of the magazine until some time next week.
12 Years Next Tuesday— The Story of George Gipp
By Joe Degnan
Cynicism didn’t pay quite so well in the football sports write-ups of 1920 and a young fellow by the name of Pegler was still working hard.
George Gipp
“On Dec. 13, George Gipp Died.”
Late in November when Chicago was again the scene of rash prosperity bets and all cars were buzzing up to Evanston for another Notre DameNorthwestern clash, the Tribune carried no somber stories of invalids.
That Gipp, the Notre Dame threat might not play was a matter of fact. He had gone into the Indiana game a week before with a dislocated shoulder. Rock had given into his request that time. Now Gipp had a bad cold. It probably wouldn’t happen again. But the customers had heard of Gipp and the Stadium was well spotted an hour before game time.
They Demanded Him
People had heard that Gipp could do anything and as the game wore on and the threat remained wrapped in the ND blanket the crowd grew impatient, yelling hoarsely for “Gipp!” Gipp begged for a few minutes in the game. He got them and tossed a couple of telling passes at the right time. Thence to the show’ers. The crowd was satisfied but the cold was about the same.
Back on the wind cut campus eager groups listened to game reports. All these tobacco-spitting lads had a strange interest in this fellow Gipp. Not because he would do the right thing at the right time. He had been doing that since he was a Freshman.
But as a fellow they never could figure him out.
He did everything in the same whimsical, sporting way that he played football. Slouching around the campus with his casual, almost lazy stride he might stop and take a good natured poke at his friend Banna or turn suddenly into the “Rec” for a game of pool, nodding to Bill the barber as he strolled by.
Nonchalant
Not many fellows knew Gipp well. Not exactly the type who would run for a class office, George went pretty much his own way with a nod and a harmless habit of forgetting names.
Never did the young fellow waste much motion. About the campus he looked anything but an All-American —rather more like a marathon walker on his last 50 yards. 'Now and then he’d walk into another room for a game of cards. Taking tricks by the hour, he’d have a strange lack of enthusiasm—just a game.
In the class room he was anything but the hand-raising type, with that apparent laziness that tricked the Prof, into an attempt to cross him up. At that time George would come through with an off-hand burst of ingenuity.
Heralded By All
The best sports writers in the country used this young man’s name conspicuously. Rice called him a team in himself. McGeehan had to look for more superlatives. At that time Peg-lere wasn’t counting the number of flasks left in the stadiums after the games. Camp, then the All-American authority, looked right over the well-combed heads of his Big Three lads and named Gipp.
After that Northwestern game Rock was sorry he had complied with the request Gipp made. Three days after the game the star had a slight tickling in his throat—tonsilitis—then pneumonia. Of a sudden the fellows missed the tall ambling figure who always walked in a disinterested way. He was in the St. Joseph hospital.
On Dec. 13, 1920 George Gipp died. Messages of condolence and eulogy clicked through the wires. William Lyons Phelps of Yale sent his sympathies. The personality of Gipp had
(Continued on Page 14)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Shaun Rhue, IrishT errier, Is Active In New Position As Notre Dame’s Mascot
The newest member of the clan was slightly on his dignity until he discovered we were from The Scholastic office. Then his manner melted noticeably. We chatted affably on the sidelines, as the team went through last minute drill, with occasional interruptions as he applauded a tackle or spoke slightingly of an incomplete forward.
Green Jersey, Tilted Nose
You’ve seen him roaming about the grounds. Some of you saw him in Cleveland, and in New York, too; saw him on parade with his green jersey and his tilted nose.
At first, he found it slightly difficult to be amiable in such changed surroundings. Until he became accustomed to the give and take of campus life, he thought the best way to get along was a polite, formal greeting and a reserved amiability. But now he has become just one of the boys.
New Life For Him
This mascot business was new to him. He was brought up in the simple life, the constant companion of his forer master, Charlie Otis of Cleveland. In those days, there was no parading before thousands of yelling lunatics in an over-sized soup bowl, no growlings at plebeian mules, no forced companionship with an unshaven billy goat. Not as colorful,
perhaps, but it was quiet. But now he does not regret his change of living.
There was high indignation written on his face at mention of the rumors concerning his conduct at the Army game. He issued a statement in opposition to these whisperings and to explain his viewpoint. It was true, he admits, that he avoided the mule when they tried to bring them together, but it was not due to fright in the least. Our mascot comes from the best of stock, with reams and reams of affidavits attesting his lineage, and naturally is quite proud of blue blood. And this was the reason for his hesitation in fraternizing with a mule, who, from all reports, had only the day before been a common laborer on Governor’s Island.
Didn’t Bring Luck
The inception of the new member was somewhat embarrassing. He was presented to Hunk Anderson with the Notre Dame team on Navy’s two yard line. He was to be the Luck of Notre Dame. But Notre Dame was held from scoring on that attempt. His face might even have been red. at that moment, but it passed unnoticed in his general color motif. You know, I’m sure, that his name in ancient Gaelic means “Old Red,” -despite the suspicion that it (Continued on Page 26)
N.D. OBSERVES FEAST OF NARY IMMACULATE
Father O'Donnell Celebrant of Solemn High Mass.
A solemn high Mass, celebrated by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, assisted by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., deacon, and the Rev. William Molony, C.S.C., sub-deacon, marked Notre Dame’s annual observance of the feast of the Immaculate Conception in Sacred Heart Church Thursday. The Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., preached the sermon of the Mass.
America’s Patron
Father Dolan, in the course of his sermon, pointed out why Mary -Immaculate has been chosen as the special patron of America. Showing that it has long been the Church’s custom to select for various countries, certain saints who have been particularly identified with the devotion in that country, he traced the popular American devotion to Mary back to the early years of the continent when explorers and missionaries especially sought her aid.
Father Dolan also spoke of the popular fallacy of identifying the Immaculate Conception with the Virgin Birth. “The Immaculate Conception, is simply and only, Mary’s exemption from original sin,” he stated.
Urges Continued Devotion
Father Dolan continued, pointing out the high station that Mary occupied in the scheme of redemption —the source of the human nature of God’s divine Son.
Concluding the sermon, Father Dolan stressed the need for sustained, active devotion to Mary. “With the shield of our Catholic training, and the breast-plate of Notre Dame spirit, and the weapon of prayer to Mary, we shall remain strong, clean, real sons of Mary Immaculate, our Heavenly Mother.”
THE STORY OF GIPP
(Continued from Page 13)
stretched beyond football. The campus wasn’t quite the same without him.
His remains were taken to Laurium in Michigaxi. George was buried by the lake. And somehow the days seemed colder here.
December 9, 1932
Fifteen
LIST OF CHRISTMAS DANCES STILL CROWS
Pittsburgh Club Dance Tickets Obtainable From Martin.
Don Martin, president of the Pittsburgh club, has announced that the annual Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh’s Christmas dance will be held January 2, at the Pittsburgh Field Club. This dance, in previous years, has always been one of the outstanding activities in the Smoky City throughout the Christmas holidays and also one of the most successful sponsored by Notre Dame clubs.
Although the dance is under the direction of the Notre Dame alumni of Pittsburgh and vicinity, students may secure their tickets at reduced prices. These prices, however, will be accorded only to present students; the tickets must be obtained on the campus before the Christmas vacation. Those interested in obtaining the special rates should see Don Martin in Walsh hall.
Indianapolis Club Gets
“Tweet” Hogan Orchestra
The annual Christmas dance given by the Indianapolis club of the University of Notre Dame will be held this year at the Indianapolis Athletic Club on the night of December 27. The music will be furnished by “Tweet” Hogan and his Recording orchestra. The musicians are well known and are at the present time playing in Chicago. The date and the orchestra were chosen at a recent meeting of the Indianapolis students attending Notre Dame.
The officers of the club are Thomas Mahaffey, president; Michael Fox, vice-president; John Slattery, secretary; and Joseph Spalding, treasurer., The general chairman for the dance is Albert Smith.
NOTICE!
All students not returning to the University for the second semester— including those who finish their work at the end of the first semester—are requested to report to the Office of the Secretary as soon as possible.
Official Rings
Samples of the official University rings may be seen at 106 Howard hall. Orders for rings will be taken at any time.
N. D. Band of 82 Pieces Ends Field Season;
First Public Concert to be Given In Gym Tonight
Notre Dame’s marching band of 82 pieces has been transformed into the University concert band. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the musical group, has held tryouts for the band during the past week.
This year the Notre Dame bandsters have established for themselves an enviable reputation as a university band. The musicians have presented field shows and demonstrations at all of the home football games this year as well as at the Pittsburgh and Navy games at Pittsburgh and Cleveland respectively.
New Fiction Outstanding in Library Additions
A gripping, intensely human portrayal of the life of the late beloved Knute K. Rockne, Salesman from the Sidelines by McCready Huston leads a list of new books in the University Library otherwise dominated by fiction, according to Miss M. K. Lawrence of the Circulation Department.
Included in the list of the biography The Master Coach and of eight fine novels by contemporary authors is a select group of works covering many and various fields. Among the best of these are The Mass by Jead de Puniet, O.S.B., St. Augustine by Karl Adam, Red Russia by Theodor Seibert, and A Nezu Deal by Stuart Chase. Poetry lovers may find the Collected Poems of Elinor Wylie by the same. Students of science may get a glimpse of their futures in Jobs for the College Graduate in Science by Edward Mende.
The list follows:
Secret Sentence—by Vicki Baum.
A Woman of the Shoe and Other Stories—by Donn Byrne.
At several intervals during the season Professor Casasanta has received notes of commendation from different sections of the country lauding the work of the band. Especially deserving of praise is the excellent way in which the musicians have played the beautiful “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
Lovers of music on the campus are keenly looking forward to the opening of the concert season this evening in the gymnasium. The band will present tonight its first concert of the year during intervals of the basketball game.
Younger Sister—by Kathleen Norris.
Kitty—by Warwick Deeping.
These 13—by William Faulkner.
When the Gangs Came to London— by Edgar Wallace.
Farmvay—by John B. Priestly.
The Black Swan—by Rafael Sabatini.
The Craft of Writing—by Percy Marks.
Memories of a Southern Woman of Letters—by Grace E. King.
Salesman from the Sidelines—by McCready Huston.
Frank Norris—by Franklin Walker.
Sappho of Lesba—by Arthur E. P. Weigald.
A Nezv Deal—by Stuart Chase.
Murder Mysteries of New York— by Frank M. O’Brien.
The Mass—by Jean de Puniet, O.S.B.
Red Rzissia—by Theodor Seibert.
Jobs for the College Graduate in Science—by Edward J. von Komorowski Mende.
The Nation at War—by Peyton C. March.
St. Augustine—by Karl Adam.
(Continued on Page 30)
Sixteen
. The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
AN AID NOT AN INSURANCE
Statistics taken in the correct light often lead on to fortune; given the wrong interpretation these same statistics cause ruin and destruction. According to a recent statistical report of the Employment Stabilization Research Institute, only one percent of the unemployed in November, 1930, were college graduates. Nevertheless, this statement does not insure students against ever being unemployed. It does not even guarantee that the chances are 100 to *1.
In the same report was the fact that less than one-hundredth of one percent of the unemployed were shoe-makers. We hasten to say that in neither case is this an assurance that by belonging to a particular group one need not fear unemployment.
Education is merely a tool placed in the hands of a particular few by which these few may protect themselves against the wiles of misfortune. Exactly the same as a hammer and a few meagre tacks aid a cobbler in shoeing himself out of the clutches of un- employment.
Every day the group of college graduates is increasing and the various types of people who have enjoyed this honor have taken advantage of it to its fullest capabilities, as shown by the above statement from the statistical report. A report of this sort merely shows what has gone before and does not take upon itself any power or ability to predict what will come in the future. It is entirely up to the individual what he makes out of his education. Education is merely an aid in avoiding unemployment, not an insurance against it.	,
—Syracuse Daily Orange
V	-
UNDER TWO FLAGS	’
We discover that the origin of Georgetown’s colors dates back to the Civil War period. During the war, half the student body left for homes in the North and the other half for homes in the South. Upon their return, the Blue of the North and the Grey of the South were adopted as the official colors.
COLLEGIATE BRICKLAYERS!
Students and faculty members of the University of Southern California are spending their spare time laying brick sidewalks on the campus.
V
ART FOR ART’S SAKE!
For the first time in history waitresses are being employed in the Washington and Lee dining hall. This has been done, “for a change of atmosphere and scenery, and also to increase patronage.”
V
NEWS HASH!
According to the Institute of Family Relations, the college campus is rapidly replacing the church societies as a popular mating ground. One of every six average marriages ends in divorce ; one in 75 sown in college, crashes.
V
SUCCESS AT LAST
Gary Cooper, film star, who tried three times to get into Grinnell College’s dramatic club when he was in school there, has now been invited to join.
V
PATHOLOGICAL INTRODUCTION
A Lehigh debater interested in social service work attended a meeting of a negro congregation. After accepting an invitation to say a few words, he was introduced by the chairman thus, “Sistern and Brethren, it affords me great pleasure to present the next speaker. I want to explain that while his skin ain’t de same color as de odders heah, I assures you his soul is as black as any of yoUrn.”
V
ANOTHER SCOTCH STORY
A fine of six pence is imposed at the University of Edinburgh for cutting classes. The revenue from this is used to biiy the president a Christmas present. Last year’s present was a cigar.
V ;
OH YEAH!	:
Professor Greet, of Barnard college, has discovered that “yeah” is not a new expression, but dates back to at least 849 when it was used by King Alfred.
December 9, 1932
Seventeen
MINIMS
Editorials of reprimand are usually directed at the minority of a group. This one has to do with those childish individuals who acted in their habitually puerile vein at the pep meet last Friday evening and at the movie in Washington hall the following night.
When a college man, a supposed leader in intellectual life, whistles in moronic surprise when a speaker uses a four syllable word, it is high time to practice a bit of introspection and check up on his mental equipment. He would look more at home in a burlesque gallery than in a university audience.
We blush to think that some June afternoon individuals of this type will become bachelors of something or other. We feel that our own degree won’t mean much when its twin brother will be framed by a man who gets giddy when he sees a kimono or who suspects something naughty of Mickey Mouse.
V
VOICE CORRESPONDENCE
Countless letters addressed to the “Voice of the Campus” have landed in the waste-basket because the instructions printed at the head of the column have not been observed. Again—all correspondence must be signed in full. Initials will be used if it is so requested. Letters cannot be acknowledged. Because of space limitations only a few will be printed each issue. THE Scholas-\ TIC reserves the privilege of printing letters in ; whole or in part.
Correspondence published in the “Voice” may or not express The Scholastic’s view of the matter at hand. The column has been instituted that student criticism of campus activity may become articulate, and that requested information may be given the undergraduate body.
The success and readableness of the “Voice” will be entirely dependent upon the ingenuity of The Scholastic’s readers.
V
AND AMERICAN YOUTH?
Few movements in world finance directly affect the younger generation of today, but it seems that if the war debt problem takes a certain turn we will inevitably be drawn into it. Supposing that the United States government is moved by the frenzied beggings of our self-styled bankrupt debtors, the fact remains that there is an obligation at home that must be met whether the money comes from the allies or not. In the event of cancellation the American people must supply Washington with the funds to redeem outstanding bonds. Taxes will necessarily be spread over a period of years to raise the money needed for continuous interest payments and ultimate redemption.
We well understand that the case for cancellation has a leg to stand on, that even in private life if a man has no money a creditor cannot sit back and peremptorily demand payment. We realize, too, that Europe could, by shipping over all her gold, put us in the embarrassing position of having so much of something that it would be worth nothing. Nevertheless we see no reason why the college man of the day should feel particularly enthusiastic about launching a business career when a public debt of billions hovers portentously over him and his fellows. It is not stretching the point too far to see people who were romping around American back-yards in 1914 eventually paying for the war.
One of Germany’s most forceful arguments against reparation payment is that her youth should not finance a catastrophe in which it had no part. We like the argument so well that we see no reason why we should not use it ourselves.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Cagers To Open Season Tonight
Coach Keogan Starts Tenth Season; 80 CANDIDATES REPORT Team Is After Seventeenth Victory AS TRACK SEASON NEARS
Voegele at Center for Krause; Baldwin, Crowe, Keating and Alberts Complete Lineup.
By George R. Belting
When the Notre Dame cagers take the floor against Albion College this evening, and when the referee blows his whistle for the game to start, two important phases of basketball history at Notre Dame will be recorded.
With the opening of the 1932-’33 cage season Notre Dame inaugurates her thirty-second year of competition in this famous winter pastime. It ' was in the years 1897-1898 that the Blue and Gold placed its first group of nets wishers on a college floor. Martin O’Shaughnessy wTas captain of the outfit, and Frank E. Hering was the coach.
Fighting Irish of 1897
Let those who believe that Notre Dame hasn’t the right to be called the “Fighting Irish” take one look at the list of basketball monogram men of that year. Besides O’Shaughnessy, there were also, Burns, Donahue, Fen-nessey, McNichols, Naughton, Powers, and Steiner.
That year the local courtsters played three games, losing two of them. On Dec. 28, they bowed to the First Regiment five by a score of 35 to 8. On Jan. 11, they dropped their second game to Clyborne, 13-19. It appears that the Notre Dame team was just getting into the swing of things when the season was concluded, for it was on Feb. 9, 1898 that Notre Dame won its first basketball game, and that one from Rush Medical School, 16 to 13.
Now after 31 years of college competition, Notre Dame once again places on the hardwood a quintet of “Fighting Irish” which will endeavor
Probable Starting Lineup:
NOTRE DAME
ALBION
Alberts ...............F..... (Capt.) Risley
Keating ...............F............ Chapman
Voegle ................C............. Knapp
Baldwin (Capt.) ......G............ Ruttman
Crowe .................G............ Schuler
to uphold the standards of sportsmanship and fair* play established by those cage pioneers ’ way back in 1898.
The second historical event of special interest to Notre Dame and her basketball supporters, is the fact that this season marks Coach George Keo-gan’s Wooden Anniversary as headman of the Blue and Gold cagers. In other words, nine years have elapsed and the tenth has just begun, since Dr. Keogan took over the basketeer-ing reins at Notre Dame. That he has done a very good job of it will hardly be denied. All of the years which Coach Keogan has spent as mentor of the Notre Dame squad have been resplendent with success.
Has Good Record
During that time he has established for himself a record which has made every collegiate basketball coach in the country a bit envious. A record of 142 games won, and only 43 defeats will stand as a living memorial to this athletic genius. That is an average of less than five defeats per season, and that speaks for itself.
The fact that each year brings Dr. Keogan closer to turning out an undefeated team, can best be attested by the fact, that last season the Blue and Gold shorp-shooters lost only two games.
Albion College resumes court relations with Notre Dame this evening, after having been absent from the (Continued on Page 27)
Newcomers Outnumber Vets as Practice Session Begins.
By Fred MacBeth
The indoor track season had its official beginning Monday when Coach John Nicholson put a squad of 80 men through a light workout in the gym. All of the returning varsity men were on hand and their decimated ranks were augmented by a drove of ambitious freshmen. Before long the gym took on the appearance of a six day bicycle race, with runners, jumpers, hurdlers, and weightmen dashing around the track in the usual “first workout” display of energy. The cross-country men were more careful of their muscles than the remaining track men, "who turned on the power with determination. Sore legs will put a damper on enthusiasm for a week or so, but muscles will soon respond to the carefully-arranged practice sessions to follow.
Five Meets Scheduled
The schedule of meets includes dual meets with Marquette, Purdue, and Ohio State at home, and Illinois at Champaign. The Central Conference Indoor meet will be held in the Notre Dame gym, and the Irish will see action in the Armour Relays to be held in the University of Chicago fieldhouse. There is a possibility of a few men ' competing in the annual American Institute of Banking meet at Chicago late in March.
The schedule is very severe in view of the scarcity of returning lettermen. The team will be fortified by . the presence of Murphy, the sophomore high jump sensation; Bowdren, a strong quarter and half miler; and Sullivan, who turned in some fine performances with the freshman team as a hurdler. Clyde Roberts, junior mon-
(Continued on Page 22)
December 9, 1932
Nineteen
STARTS LAST SEASON TONIGHT
Students Discount
John Baldwin, captain of the 1932-1933 Notre Dame basketball team, who begins his final season tonight. After the first few games of last year’s schedule, he v:as forced out for the balance of the season zvith pneumonia. Tonight he will lead his team against Albion, without the services of Ed Krause, last year’s All-American center. His task is carrying on the great record set by the 1931 team.
20%
Applies on Xmas Gifts Purchased Here
Globes ..........85c	to §35.00
Portable Type-'writers ......$-9.75	to $65.00
Zipper portfolios leather..........$1.85 to $4.75
Brief Case leather .........$2.75 to $6.85
Leather key-tainers .... ......50c	to $1.75
Desk Thermos sets ...........$3.85	to $12.50
Drawing Instruments ...........$5.00	to $18.00
Fountain Pens.............$1.00	to $9.75
Duplicate Bridge
Boards........25c per board
Steel Bridge Tables...........$2.75 to S11.00
Zipper ring books— leather.............$2.75	to $6.00
Webster’s Dictionaries ...........85c	to $16.00
.Mechanical pencils..............10c to $1.75
Poker chips and
racks 			$1.50 to $6.00
Playing cards....		25c to $2.00
Five year Diaries and	
date book...		$1.35 to $3.00
Used Type^ writers...........$5.00 to $37.50
Smoking stand and ash trays............60c	to S16.00
Desk lamps..... 98c to $72.00
Radios: Philccs: Crosley Silver Marshall Kennedy...........$11.85 to $150.00
Notre Dame Stationery.............89c	to $1.45
Book ends—Notre Dame monogram and characters..........95c to $11.00
Cigarette boxes — ladies and mens............65c to $7.85
Busts of Knute Rockne ..............$1.35
LARGEST SELECTION Xmas Greeting Cards Down Town
.05 cards .35 doz. .10 cards—.75 doz.
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS, INC 116 South Mich- St.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Alumni Whips Morrissey
12 to 0 For Interhall Title
ALUMN1-M0RRISSEY GAME ENDS SEASON
DESERVE VICTORY
Superior Running Attack And Fast Charging Line Bring
Juniors* Sixth Triumph.
By James McKeon
Alumni Hall assumed the mantle of Interhall football champion of the school by defeating Morrissey Hall by the score of 12 to 0 in the Stadium Sunday. Thus Alumni succeeds St. Edwards, last years title winner.
A mere handful braved a biting cold wind to see the junior hall win its sixth straight game, at the same time stamping itself as one of the greatest teams to be put on the field in interhall competition. On the other hand it was the first defeat of the year for Morrissey.
Weather Hampers Play
Both teams were hampered considerably by the cold and slippery footing. Alumni with its brilliant blocking which has been in no small way responsible for its success throughout the campaign scored a touchdown in the first period and another in the final, Charley Finkel going over for both scores. In addition Bloemsma ran 55 yards for a score in the second period but it was disallowed and the ball brought back when an Alumni man was offside on the play.
Alumni with a number of plays in its repertoire from which to choose was by far the better team. It registered eight first downs to one by Morrissey. Alumni was penalized a total of 25 yards; Morrissey went through the fray without suffering a single penalty.	-
Sophs In Scoring Territory Once
Morrissey advanced into Alumni territory but once, reaching the 35 yard line on that occasion. However a pass was intercepted on the 25 yard line and with it went Morrissey’s only threat to score. Battling, against tremendous odds Morrissey did not go down without a struggle. Although outweighed considerably it fought back grimly. In the backfield Bintz with his able kicking kept Alumni at a distance.
The game opened with Morrissey
kicking to Alumni on the Alumni 30 yard line. Alumni was unable to gain and kicked to the Morrissey 25 yard line. Morrissey after two unsuccessful thrusts at the line returned the Alumni kick, the ball going to Luck-anitsch on his own 45. yard line from where he carried it to the Morrissey 35 yard stripe before he was stopped. Pahlman passed to Luckanitsch for a first down on the 12 yard line. On third down Finkel cut off tackle for seven yards, and a score. Bloemsma’s attempted dropkick was wide.
Morrissey Tries Passes
After this score Alumni kicked to Morrissey. The sophomores were unable to make any headway through the Alumni line and kicked, the ball going offside on the Alumni 43 yard line. Alumni marched into Morrissey territory and after missing a first down it kicked. The kick was partially blocked, and was recovered by Sheedy, Morrissey left end on his 45 yard; line as the period came to a close.
Morrissey took to the air and had a pass intercepted by Pahlman on his 45 yard stripe. Alumni kicked and again Pahlman’s kick was poor and it was Morrissey’s ball five yards inside Alumni territory. A five yard penalty helped Morrissey and then La-
(Continued on Page 22)
1932 ALL-INTERHALL FOOTBALL TEAMS
FIRST TEAM	SECOND TEAM
Sheedy (Morrissey)_____________LE________________Colnak (Badin)
Woods (Walsh) _________________LT_______________Favret (Alumni)
Aberle (Morrissey)_____________LG___________Goray (St. Edward’s)
Andrews (St. Edward’s)________C________________Blake (Morrissey)
Viviano (St. Edward’s)___________RG_______________________Kearns	(Carroll)
Standish (Morrissey)__________RT_______________De Vine (Lyons)
Pogue (Alumni)___________________RE_____________Sandura	(Howard)
Ackermann (Walsh)________________QB________________________Powell	(Alumni)
Ford (Freshman) _____________,_LH_________:_______Duffy (Walsh)
Lukanitsch (Alumni)___________RH_____________Dizanza (Freshman)
Pahlman (Alumni)_______________FB____________Gleason (Freshman)
Honorable Mention: Hollond (Alumni); Travers (Walsh); Emmer-ling (St. Edward’s); Hughes (Carroll); Loughrey (Walsh); Shultz (Dillon); Des Noyers (Badin) ; Leroux (Walsh); LaLonde (Morrissey); Mosele (Freshman); Brady (Corby); Bherman (Corby); Bloemsma (Alumni) ; Farrell (Badin); Delvin (Corby); Schmidt (Brownson); Cheviny (Brownson); Faherty, (Walsh); Felts (Morrissey); Whelan (Howard); C. Huisking (Alumni).
Group I Standings Were Close; Group II Less Colorful.
By Edward Van Huisseling
The interhall football festivities came to a close Sunday when Alumni triumphed over Morrissey in the championship bout in the stadium. It was a season of fascination from start to finish with a minimum of disappointments.
Unlike previous years, one section seemed to have a monopoly on the outstanding elevens. Group I was tangled in a most thrilling race with Alumni, Freshman, and Walsh showing up so well that for several weeks it was impossible to predict a winner among them.
Freshman Outstanding
Group II had a less colorful season, with Morrissey barely eking out a championship. St. Edward’s and Badin were close on their heels when hostilities ceased.
Probably the greatest surprise of the year was the splendid showing of Freshman. The speedy Frosh were in the thick of the fight until they were thoroughly trounced by the champions, 33 to 7 in a classic that had a direct bearing upon the ultimate outcome. Despite this defeat the rookies wound up in second place, the highest a freshman team has finished in some years.
Disappointments were in order
December 9, 1932
Twenty-one
CAN THEY DO IT AGAIN?
when Off-Campus and Carroll withdrew from competition. The former club had a legitimate excuse to dis
ters, including the very recent game with Morrissey, amassed a total of 104 points while having their goal
crossed but once. Freshman accomplished this feat on Nov. 13, when it scored a touchdown and converted the .extra point. The strength of the Juniors’ running game is convincing when it is considered that on only two of its touchdowns did forward passes figure directly, long runs bringing about the remaining scores.
In making eight of a possible twelve conversions after touchdowns, Alumni showed it was a team -well drilled in the finer points of the game.
With the playing of the scheduled games on October 23, the leading teams, as shown by the final standings, had definitely asserted their superiority. Morrissey led its field with three wins, and Alumni, Walsh, and Freshman were showing the way in Group II.
Morrissey clinched the title in Group I by trouncing Dillon on November 6, by the score of 13-to 6.
One week later Alumni had eliminated Freshman and had only Walsh to contend with. The Juniors romped through these stalwarts a week later to earn the right to meet Morrissey for the big prize.
Football Team Sees U. S. C.
Plays in Washington Hall
Coach Heartly Anderson introduced a new element into Notre Dame’s football practise last week. Twice the whole travelling squad went to Washington Hall, -where full length moving pictures of last year’s Southern Cali-fornia-Notre Dame game and the Southern California-Tulane Rose Bowl game were shown.
continue because of the scarcity of day dodgers this term. On the other hand, Carroll seems to be at a loss to explain its glaring failure to muster enough men to offer competition. The freshman stayed around long enough to have their ears pinned back by Alumni, 21 to 0.
An excellent example of the do or die spirit was illustrated by Lyons. From the start, this crew evidently had little chance to win a game but the boys stuck to their guns—Carroll please note—and went through with their assignments to claim some type of moral victory.
In the schedule of twenty-two conflicts, there were many that were packed to capacity with thrills typical of close struggles and as many were marked because they were so evidently one-sided.
Alumni, in winning its six encoun-
Break up that Cold ....
Take a Turkish Bath
To stop a Cold in the making . . .
Take a Steam Bath
For Constipation..........
Take a Colon Bath
LA SALLE ANNEX BATHS
115 LaSalle Ave.	Mr. Sundloff	Phone 3-9361
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
TRACK BEGINS
(Continued from Page 18)
ogram man, is recovering rapidly from a fractured ankle. Louis Vettel is back to resume his sparkling work of last season in the quarter mile. He remained out of football this fall and will be in great shape when the first meet rolls around. The mile seems to hold much promise. Ed King and Joe Young will be consistent point winners in that event. King
decided to let cross-country pass this season and have a rest after twelve solid months of track, including the Los Angeles Olympics.
Coach Nicholson is not at all optimistic over the season’s prospects. Each opponent has a well-rounded team and that is what Notre Dame lacks. ' If the Irish are fortunate enough to strike team with similar -weaknesses, there will be an even, chance for a successful season. Every available man is needed to pick up as’
many second and third places as possible. A team with a number of stars and plenty of reserve material will
• win 'over reputedly strong clubs. If “Nick” can find that reserve power, the showing of this year’s varsity track team will approach that of last year’s aggregation which was undefeated indoors.
ALUMNI - MORRISSEY
(Continued from Page 20)
shocs for men
The Wing’s the Thing for Winter
THE LONG LINES of the full wing tip lend a gracious slenderness to the foot. The swing to wing tipped shoes for Winter is on with a vengeance. You’ll find Bostonians’ wing tips in excellent good taste.
THE SPRUCE Imported
Black Calf
All Imported Leathers
THE DARBY All Brovn or Black Eternal Scotch Grain
Londe made it a first down on thel Alumni 35. Nockles lost five and . Pahlman intercepted another pass, this one on his own 25. Luckanitsch x-registered a first down on his own 35 as the half came to a close.	-
The third quarter found both teams attempting- to gain an advantage through kicking. Taking a punt on his own 26 yard line Pahlman added a first down on the 37. Bloemsma passed to Luckanitsch for another first down just over the middle of the field. Here however Alumni lost ground and it kicked, the ball being downed on the Morrissey nine yard line. Bintz kicked from close to his ' own goal line and Alumni came into possession of the ball on Morrissey’s 46 yard line as the third period ended.
Finkel Scores
McKiernan made a first down on the 35 yard line. Bloemsma added four and then made it a first down on the 20 yard line. Finkel carried the ball to the nine yard line and then he added three. Again he carried the ball and this time he placed it but one foot short of the goal line. Finally on the next down he plunged over. A forward pass for the extra point was incomplete.
Morrissey spent the rest of the time trying to advance via the air route but all of the passes were out of the reach of the intended receivers.
H o 11 o n d, Kiely and Bloemsma played outstanding football for the (Continued on Page 29)
OTHER BOSTONIANS <5 TO 88
Lost and Found
Students are advised that all books, notebooks, or articles of clothing left in class rooms are turned in to the Lost and Found department in Room 124 of the Main building. Students losing articles may call for them during the department’s office hours on any day.
$050
December 9, 1932
ILLINOIS WESLEYAN
HERE NEXT THURSDAY
Leaders of “Little 19” Play Keoganites in Second Game.
On Thursday night of next week, Bec. 15, Illinois Wesleyan’s baskethall squad will invade the home grounds of the Notre Dame five in an attempt to make the latter say uncle.
Very little can be learned about the prowess or deceptiveness of the aggregation from Bloomington, Illinois, but one thing is certain. This outfit, a member of the famous “Little 19” conference of Illinois, is expected to do plenty of damage to their opponents in their quest for the berth at the top of the championship ladder.
' Wesleyan Record Good
Wally Roettger, that eagle-eyed outfielder of the Cincinnati Reds, is the Wesleyan coach. Roettger has had wonderful success with his teams and groomed the quintet that won the Little 19 Conference Championship of 1929.
Some of the other teams that Coach Roettger’s men must face before they can lay claim to the 1933 Conference title, are: Bradley, one of the strongest teams in Illinois, Knox college, St. Viator, and Augustana.
Although the game Thursday night will have no bearing on the Conference championship, yet if Illinois Wesleyan can down Notre Dame, they will have earned the thanks and gratitude of every Blue and Gold opponent.
Auburn Club Establishes
First Scholarship Fund
At a meeting held Sunday morning in Walsh hall the members of the Auburn-Notre Dame club formulated their final plans for the establishment of a scholarship fund. James Mulvaney, class of 1930, was elected honorary president of the organization. Arrangements were also completed for the formal dance to be held during the Christmas vacation.
The Auburn-Notre Dame club scholarship will be awarded to one of three students having the highest grades in the Regents examination. This scholarship applies only to graduating high school seniors of Auburn, The award, which will consist of $1CO is to be applied to tuition at Notre Dame. The first award will be made in 1936.
Adirondack Club To Hold Important Meet Tonight
The Adirondack Club will hold a meeting this evening in the basement of Walsh Hall at 7:45 o’clock at which time the question of whether or not there will be a Christmas dance will be settled.
President Jim C. Munn requests that all members of the club be present as he has several important announcements to make.
Let Us Help You Select Your Christmas
Shop at Walgreen’s for your Christmas Gifts, where you can choose from a large assortment of personal gifts that please both men and women. There are also many amusing toys that make the children’s Christmas a happy one. Your money goes further at Walgreen’s. You will be amazed at the beautiful gifts you can purchase at so little cost. Shop at any hour that suits you, day or evening — it is easy, convenient and economical to shop at Walgreen’s.
SAVE AT
WALGREEN’S
208 North Michigan St.
Twenty-three
Chairman Begley Announces Plans For Cleveland Dance
Two orchestras will play for the Christmas dance of the Cleveland club to be held Dec. 26th in the Allerton hotel ballroom.
John Beljon, Notre Dame graduate and composer of “My Prom Sweetheart,” and his orchestra will provide the music from nine until one o’clock, and Emerson Gill’s musicians are engaged to play from one until three o’clock.
Tiventy-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Bill Pierce
By William Flynn
Handicapped by injuries William Clarkson Pierce, one of the Fighting Irish right guards who is in Los Angeles • waiting for the barrier to be sprung on the year’s football classic, has been the “hard luck” man in Notre Dame football circles for two years.
After making himself known as a bidder for the right guard position in 1930, Pierce was just getting up full steam and hitting his stride before the Southern California game of 1931. Several days before the game, he came out of a scrimmage with his right arm hanging limply at his side.
Injuries Stop Him
“Scrap Iron” Young, varsity trainer, looked it over, and sent Pierce to the doctor. The arm was broken. So that season was ended, just before the year’s greatest game. But, another year was coming, reasoned Pierce.
When September, 19 3 2 rolled around, Pierce reported with the rest of the candidates. And he came out of one of the season’s first scrimmages with a twisted knee. Out for a month or more.
The
Book Shop
XMAS Greeting Cards
Largest and Best Display in Indiana
DROP IN
,	.	r
The Book Shop
130 North Michigan
A less determined person would have probably discarded his suit for the-rest of the season. But not Pierce. He hobbled to practice, learning by
0 observation. When he was able to use the leg again, he began the fight once more for varsity recognition.
A native of Sherman, Texas, Pierce came North to school because he always wanted to see what “those Yankees” were like. He prepped at Sherman High school, played a little football, and was active in other in-terscholastie sports.
Intends To Coach
When he came to Notre Dame, he enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. After completing his first two years, he selected Economics for his major and will receive his Bachelor’s degree in June.
After that event, he intends to return to the South and make coaching his profession. Although, at the present time, he has nothing definitely lined up for a coaching berth, it is probable that he will be another Notre Dame man who will carry some Southern team to a higher level of football.
Down in the South, he says, football is usually played in rather a haphazard manner. The game is a popular one but it seems that it is not always taken too seriously when compared with the work and labor that is put into the job of moulding Northern football teams into the smooth functioning machines they are.
Pierce is 23 years old, weighs 185 pounds and is five feet, eight inches tall. Short, heavy for his height, he physically meets the requirements for a good guard. His aggressiveness, determination, ability to block, and defensive ability has also helped carry him to the position he holds on the varsity squad.
Built As A Guard Should Be
According to football precedent, a guard, especially in the Notre Dame system, must be fast enough to pull out of the line to lead interference for the ball carrier and still be heavy enought to withstand the shock of line play. If the guard is too heavy, his line stance sometimes tips opponents off where the play is to go for when he is leading the play he must line up a little behind his usual place on the scrimmage line in order to be able to get around quickly enough.
On the other hand, he must not be too light. The best type of guard is one that is short, heavy, squat, and hard to push over. And above all he must have the ability to block in the open. According to Pierce, guards, as blockers, haven’t been handicapped by the new rule prohibiting use of the flying block. ‘
Hews To The Line
Bill Pierce, roommate of “Little Brute” Joe Kurth in 105 Sorin, is carrying on the tradition of great Notre Dame guards. Sometimes he does a Metzger and submarines his opponents. Other times he goes over the top. And he leads the ball carrier toward the goal line.
Quiet, blue-eyed, speaking with a soft-slurring Southern accent, he is an unassuming individual. He seems to take things as a matter of course, but always “hews to the line and lets the chips fall where they may.”
William Clarkson Pierce, Southerner, guard, Economic major, coeditor of the Football Review, soon to be published, ends his career in Notre Dame football tomorrow against Southern California’s Trojans.. But he will carry on as coach and teacher.
December 9, 1932
Tzventy-five
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
NOTRE DAME 14, SO. CAL 7.
That’s our story and we’ll take all arguments. We’ve weighed almost everything we could think of, including the Seattle papers after the Trojan 9-6 win from Washington, David J. Walsh’s “bounden belief” that the Irish will lose, and the McGeehan-Gallico blurbs that they’re not Irish after all. And we still think that 14 to 7 for Notre Dame is a good guess.
The Seattle papers mentioned above were laden with cheerful messages about the “vaudeville team of Jones and Dana—performances every Saturday.” The northern boys bore no love for the Dana chap, who was. in case you’re interested, the referee— Herb Dana, of Nebraska. He’s working tomorrow’s game too, but no implication is intended. We haven’t a worry on that score.
“Spike” England, the ex-old man of the track business around here, wrote to Hunk that Southern California was tougher than ever before, that they had the greatest tackles in Smith and Tay Brown that he had ever seen, including Ted Twomey, the bone crusher.
Giving Spike full credit for an observing and an accurate eye, we could work up no mental state over his letter other than a feeling that it would be a very tough game. We’ll admit that we haven’t settled down from the Army game yet, but we feel that the Irish have. We also feel that they are going to approach very close to the perfection they reached that day in New York. If they do, our guess will be justified.
If they should fail to reach that perfection, however, yours truly will look like a bigger bum than he did when Bates tied Yale.
This bit on prediction gets us 'around to our pals at Yale. We’re considering a suit for damages. We picked the Bulldogs over Bates in a walk and they tied. We favored them over Brown and they
lost. We picked them to lose to Dartmouth and they up and didn’t. Finally we said they didn’t rate a 10 to 1 chance with Harvard, and Harvard promptly collapsed. Anyway Army beat Yale, and we did guess that. Next year we’re going to bar Yale from this column.
Back to Southern California. We can’t help believing that they are at the end of their two-year winning streak. Hunk’s boys looked right against Army. Despite Mr. Walsh’s analysis, we believe it possible to keep a team at its peak or very nearly at its peak for two games in a row — especially when two weeks intervene between games. A bad rehearsal means a good play and they tell us that the rehearsal last Saturday was bad. Since it was a very exclusive affair, we didn’t get an invitation. (We should have disclosed that the “S” in the by-line is for “O’Sullivan”; we could contribute a lot of atmosphere.)
We’ll stick to Notre Dame 14, Southern Cal 7.
BASKETBALL
They’re chasing each other off the sport stage this year as Coach Keo-gan presents his first night before Hunk’s cast is off-stage. We’ve been pretty much wrapped up in the gridiron business all these weeks, but we have had time to get a look at Coach George and his squad in a few workouts.	"
BUY YOUR KODAK FILMS at the N. D. CAFETERIA
They’ll be green for the first game or so, but we’re taking it on faith that they’ll be plenty good before very long—faith in Keogan. Football has robbed him of some mighty fine material for the first three games but when Krause and McGuff and Costello and the others come back, he’ll be in fine shape.
Not too much should be expected, however. Ray DeCook, Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold, Tommy Burns, Clay Johnson, and Al Schumacher- are gone, and that’s a loss that would leave most mentors on the rocks. Keogan will have a fine team this year, but before the grandstand wolves start grumbling about not preserving that 16-game winning streak — in the event that it is snapped — they should remember the situation as one of the toughest a coach has been called upon to face.
Sam’s Barber
Shop
A First Class Shop That Solicits Your Patronage
On Michigan Street Under Claffey’s Cigar Store
PHOTOSTAT SERVICE
PLANOGRAPH PRINTS
KODAK FINISHING
SCHILLINGS INC.
329 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Buffalo Club Meets and Announces Dance Plans
At a meeting held Monday evening at 6:30 in the Law Building, members of the Buffalo club were informed by James Doyle, president, that the group is being exempted from the federal tax on organizations because of the Scholarship Fund of the club. Other clubs not sponsoring such a fund are being taxed by the government.
Following this announcement, final
GREAT NEWS FOR THE HOLIDAYS!
Effective Dec. 15th to Jan. 1st... Return Limit Jan. 15th
Greyhound’s famous low fares are cut almost half for year-end trips. That Means first class travel, cozy Tropic-Aire heat—schedule convenience unequaled.
ROUND TRIP		EXCURSIONS	
DETROIT	$5.00	TOLEDO	$4.95
CLEVELAND	7.85	LOUISVILLE	9.75
PITTSBURGH	10.45	CINCINNATI	10.15
ST. LOUIS	7.20	BUFFALO	11.75
FORT WAYNE	4.50	NEW YORK	20.35
PHILADELPHIA	18.35	ALBANY	19.25
SYRACUSE	16.00	WASHINGTON	14.75
BALTIMORE	16.70	BOSTON	21.75
FLINT	5.40	BATTLE CREEK	3.60
LANSING	4.05	LIMA	5.15
Union Bus Depot, 133 South Lafayette Blvd., Phone: 3-8283 CAMPUS AGENT
Louis Alaman, Book Store, Bob Chenal, 349 Alumni Hall
GREYHOUND
plans were made for the annual Christmas dance. The ballroom of the Hotel Statler has been engaged for the 29th of December, and Sleepy Hall and his orchestra will furnish music according to the joint contract made by him with four New York clubs, Utica, Buffalo, Capitol District, and Auburn.
Joe Stancook, ex-’34, substitute full back on the Army team in this year’s game, was a member of Brownson Hall in 1920-31.
Introducing Shaun Rhue
(Continued from Page 14)
has some connection with a Greek fraternity. Such embarrassment did not last long, however. No longer, in fact, than the Army game when his presence on the bench lent color to the scene and fire to the Irish attack.
He’s in California now. And at the moment of his leaving he was somewhat worried about the reputed Wooden Horse mascot of the Trojans. But he’ll carry on. He has Irish blood, and the Irish fight. And already he has love of the Irish team. May we present the Notre Dame mascot, Shaun Rhue.
LAW SCHOOL NOTES.
Approximately 200 law teachers will assemble at the thirtieth annual meeting of the Association of American Law Schools to be held at the Stevens hotel in Chicago on December 28, 29 and 30.,
The Notre Dame College of Law is a member of the Association which consists of 75 of the most prominent university law schools in the country. All of the professors in the College of Law plan to attend this meeting.
The mid-winter meeting of the Indiana Bar Association will be held on Saturday. December 17 at the Claypool hotel in Indianapolis.
The committee of the Bar Association meets a day earlier, on Friday, December 16, to prepare their reports for the general meeting.
Dean Konop, who plans to attend, is a member of the committee on education.
Mr. Aaron H. Huguenard, a member of the bar in South Bend, will deliver a lecture to law students on Saturday evening, December 17 at 9:00 o’clock, in the Law building. Mr. Huguenard, who has been a former lecturer of the College of Law here, will speak on “The Foundation of A Corporation.”
Prepares For Priesthood
Bernard J. Doris, Sophomore, ’31-32, has entered the Belmont Abbey college, North Carolina, to prepare for entrance to the Benedictine mon- ' astery. His intention is to become a priest of the Benedictine Order.
The greatest lack in the modern age, the principal source of evils we all deplore, is the lack of reflection. —Pope Pius XI. s
December 9, 1932
Tzventy-seven
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 18)
cage schedule since 1928. Albion does not forget things quickly, and will be out to avenge that 15 to 8 defeat which the Keoganites handed them at that time.
Although the Albion mentor, R. R. “Bud” Daughtery, had only one veteran, Captain Carl Risley, forward, around which to build his present quintet, he has done very nicely. The - Michigan aggregation have played .. four games so far, and the results indicate that this team will go far in their attempt to annex the Michigan Conference championship.
—	Risley Is Star
Captain Risley is an outstanding floor man, and has a regular eagle eye when it comes to sinking the long ' ones. Last season he was selected for a forward post on the All-Michi-gan Conference team. Little is known " about the other players, but the team _ as a whole are exceptionally deceptive and extremely fast on the hardwood.
Coach Keogan announced that he has made a change in the personnel of his probable varsity five. Joe Voegle has been shifted to center. Voegele’s regular position is at forward, and he no doubt will resume that post when Big Ed Krause, AllWestern tackle on several mythical football teams, returns from the coast, and forsakes the football wardrobe for the much lighter basketball togs.
A regular band platform is being erected in the north-eastern comer of the gymnasium. The band will play at all home contests and Professor Joseph A. Casasanta has several surprises in store for the patrons of the varsity games.
We have ’em!
Elk Sport MOCCASIN OXFORDS $2.75
For Campus Wear, heavy Elk upper with double sole and leather heels I	that will stand hard wear, also Black
।	and Brown.
BOSTON SHOE STORE
124 So. Michigan St.
Faculty Volley Ball Team is Easy Victor Over Walsh Hall
The faculty set the Walsh hall students back on their heels Tuesday night, but it was oh the volley ball court, and not the classroom this time. The seniors, who had expected an easy game, were overcome by the smooth-working profs who set them down six games in a row. The Walsh
We Suggest that
You Suggest to Dad...
an
Extension Telephone for Mother’s Christmas Gift!
That will surely please Mother —and make a real hit with the entire family.
The Economical
Noice of Millions
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
haliers had never played together before, and their lack of team work made them easy prey for the experienced faculty team. The students, however, showed noticeable improvement as the game went on, and were playing the profs on almost even terms at the close of the contest. Scannell, Bender and Janiskewski starred for the faculty, while Travers and Loughrey played well for the losers.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
U. S. C. GAME
(Continued from Page 5)
7; U. S. C. 33, Oregon 0; U. S. C 9, Washington 6. All of which sums up to Southern California 153, opponents 13—no mean record.
The Notre Dame record, with the exception of the loss to Pittsburgh, is nearly as impressive. The victory over Army two weeks ago raised Notre Dame’s stock considerably all over the country. The old bugbear— injuries—has, however, again attacked the Irish. In the past two weeks Melinkovich, Banas, Robinson, Kurth, Devore, and Kosky have been unable to attend practise because of illness. Since Southern California’s plays and formations are the most varied that the Notre Dame team has been up against all season, this may be a deciding factor in the game tomorrow.
Coach “Hunk” Anderson was pessimistic about his team’s chances early this week. Injuries had practically nullified his extensive study of Southern
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD"
114 N. Michigan □
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet" Open 24 Hours.
California plays and the good influence of movies of the U. S. C. games with Notre Dame and Tulane last year.
Past Games Close
Whatever the past records of the teams or the injuries, however, Notre Dame - Southern California games have a way of surprising people. The series began in 1926 when Notre Dame won 13 to 12. In 1927 Notre Dame won 7 to 6. In 1928 Southern California won 27 to 14. In 1929 at Soldier’s Field the national championship team of that year won 13 to 12. In 1930, despite the loss of Joe Sa-voldi and heavy odds on the western team, Notre Dame won 27 to 0. Last year Southern California broke the long Notre Dame winning streak by winning 16 to 14 in the last minutes of play. With the exception of the games of 1928 and 1930, every Notre Dame-Southern California game has been won or lost by a margin of only one or two points—by the point after touchdown three times and by a field goal once.
Tomorrow’s game will complicate the national championship situation if it should be a Notre Dame victory. Pittsburgh is due to play Southern California in the Rose Bowl on January 2 for national honors. If Notre Dame, after losing to Pitt, should beat Southern California tomorrow and if Southern California should beat Pitt on January 2, the national championship would become a puzzle. If this does happen, Notre Dame’s
SUNDAY, DECEMBER, 18 Americas Waltz King WAYNE KING
IN PERSON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Advance $1.00 Door $1.25 We Pay the Tax
SATURDAY, DEC. 17
SCOTCH HIGHLANDERS Americas Most Unique Dance Orchestra 50c FOR MEN	25c FOR LADIES
Dance Free
PALAIS ROY ALE
place in the national rankings will be higher than it will be otherwise.
Game Like Last Year’s
The Notre Dame team (those members that were able to attend practise) was prodded on last week by a letter that Coach Anderson received from “Spike” England, freshman track coach here last year. England said that he had seen all of Southern California’s home games this season and that the western school has the “best line in years, the tackle are big and tough, the guards are fast and aggressive, and the ends smash in on defense relentlessly.” England, who has seen Notre Dame’s great lines in the past years, concluded his letter by saying that the Trojans line is “the fastest charging outfit I have ever seen.”
The game tomorrow resembles in many ways the Notre Dame-Southern California game of last year. At that time Southern California came east to break a long winning streak and Notre Dame’s chances for a national championship. This year the Notre Dame team has gone west to break a long Southern California winning streak and to stop Southern California from getting a second national championship. Last year Southern California succeeded. Tomorrow will tell whether Notre Dame will.
4
Business conducted solely with a view to gain something is of a rather low order.—Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler.
1
December 9, 1932
Twenty-nine
LITURGICAL CHANT
(Continued from Page 12)
movement was inaugurated by Pope Pius X to restore it to its primordial glory. In his “Motu Proprio,” Pius sets forth Chant as the most sublime expression of music considered as a religious art. Perhaps no single group has done so much for the plainsong as the Benedictines of Solesmes, who have pored over musty and age-eaten manuscripts for years, separating the genuine chant melodies from the counterfeit, and endeavoring to find the true interpretation intended the works by their original composers.
Interpretation
Two qualifications are necessary for the proper rendition of Gregorian Chant. Art is the first. There is prevailing a false notion that the chant melodies, because of their simplicity need no study, no artistic interpretation, no expressive rendering. The truth is that they require not only contemplation and art, but genuine inspiration. If Chopin’s “Etude in C-sharp Minor” can be ruined by a poor and inartistic performance, how much more easily can a simple unaccompanied Gregorian tune be butchered!
The second qualification for proper rendition is a mind sanctified by meditation and prayer. This does not mean that in order to be a member of a Gregorian choir one’s head must, be continually scraping the clouds. It does mean, however, that the words of the liturgy must be sung with a devout and fervent expressiveness, otherwise the rendition is too cold and worldly.
This is the first of a series of articles on liturgical chant by John Sharpe. The second ivill appear next issue.
FOOTBALL REVIEW
(Continued from Page 8)
Edward Burns, Edward J. Neil, Ernest Mehl, Robert F. Kelley, Francis Wallace and Grantland Rice.
Statements from the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, Coach Anderson and Captain Host will appear in the first pages. Individual writeups of all the coaches and all the members of the varsity squad have been completed.
The frontispiece of the Review is taken from the Cleveland Mid-Week Revieiv and is a composite picture of
the “fighting face of Notre Dame,” made by superimposing the pictures of the first eleven men on the Irish team.
James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame alumni secretary, and Professor Charles Phillips of the University . English department complete the long list of prominent contributors.
MORRISSEY VS. ALUMNI
(Continued from Page 22)
winners while LaLonde, Blake and Bintz did the best work for Morrissey.
The Lineups: ALUMNI	MORRISSEY
Dugan .............LE............. Sheedy
Favret ............LT..............Aberle
Quirk .............LG.............. Nolan
Hollond ...........C............... Blake
Kiely .............RG........... Molinari
Huisking ..........RT........... Standish
Reese..............RE.............. Felts
Bloesma ...........QB............. Powers
Pahlman ...........LH.............. Bintz
Luckanitseh .......RH............ LaLonde
Finkel ............FB...........Palmisani
Score hy periods: Morrissey ...... 0	0	0	0— 0
Alumni ....... 6	0	0	6—12
Alumni substitutions: Fromm. Byrne. Glennon, McKiernan. Cote.
Morrissey: Sagaartz. Nockles. Higgins. Deschamps. Purcell.
O. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresb Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL . . 50c lb.
FAMILY ASSORTMENT 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . 70c lb.
v
Special Attention to Mailing
Open Evenings and Sundays
V
Mrs. Thompson's Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Ho’el
Thirty
The Scholastic
Business Staff For Operetta Is Named by Prof. Casasanta
WALK ♦OVER’S
Aristocratic New "Belmont"
The General Business Committee for the Freshman operetta, “The Vagabonds,” to be presented in February, has been named. Joseph Cahill of Freshman hall is the General Business manager and Director of Publicity. His subordinates are as follows: James Burke, Brownson hall; Louis Lange, Freshman hall; James Foley, Carroll hall; and Thomas Hines, Dillon hall.
They will handle the sale of tickets, organization of publicity and other necessary work in producing the operetta. The mc-mbers were picked by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta.
NEW ART DIRECTOR
■ (Gontniued from Page 10)
In addition to his accomplishments as an art critic, Doctor Goldblatt is also a talented musician, having played first violin with the Chicago Symphony orchestra. He has done considerable research work in the field of violin manufacturing. His doctor’s degree was taken in music and in fine arts.
The Wightman Art Galleries of which Doctor Goldblatt will have charge, is considered one of the finest collections of old masters, including all of the principal schools, in the middle west. The largest share of the collection was presented to the University, by Dr. Charles A. Wightman, of Chicago, some years ago.
that promises to be a
best seller everywhere!
The
NEW BOOKS
(Continued from Page 15)
Belmont is made of the finest, smooth black calfskin— selected for clear-thru quality and durability that men expect (and will always get) from Walk-Overs. Its shapely, roomy toe and snug “pear-shaped” heel insure perfect fit—and it’s priced to fit your pocketbook. Practically all men’s Walk-Overs now Sb to $8.50.
WALK* OVER
Our Latvless Police—by Ernest J. Hopkins.
Collected Poems of Elinor Wylie.
The English Neivspaper—by Stanley Morison.
Lying and its Detection—by John A. Larson.
Revolt of the Masses—by Jose Or-tegay Gasset.
All of these books, which cover multifarious fields of literature and interest, are at the disposal of the student body at any time. By this list the library hopes to encourage more student reading.

The last mule-drawn street car in Mexico City has been retired, and the public conveyances /now are all busses.
December 9, 1932
Thirty-one
Freshmen Must Attend 2nd Show in Washington Hall
A new schedule for the Washington Hall movies was announced by the Prefect of Discipline this week for the residents of Brownson, Carroll, Freshman and Dillon Halls in order to comply with the state law regulating overcrowding of theatres. In the future, the residents of these halls are asked to attend the second show at 8:15 instead of the first performance.
The first show, for residents of the^ other halls, is to be at 6:35, the usual hour.
French Club Holds Bridge
Party and Awards Prize
A book of poems, “A Rime of the Rood and Other Poems,” by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, was presented by Professor Langwell as the favor of “Le Cercle Francais” bridge party which was held Wednesday eve
ning, Nov. 30 in Mr. Langwell’s rooms in Dillon Hall. Twenty members of the French Club were present. Charles E. Cuminskey was the recipient of the prize.
The papers which were to be presented by Salvatore ■ Ferrari, George Belting, Frank C. McMann, and Thomas Brobson, were postponed until the next morning. A definite date was not set for the next gathering but the members decided that another would be called before the Christmas holidays.
Home for the Holidays!
$3.42 ROUND TRIP (Christmas Vacation Rate)
SOUTH BEND to CHICAGO
Gifts
Gifts
Gifts Galore!
For dad brother, sister or sweetheart,
Here’s the speedy, comfortable and economical way to Chicago when you leave Notre Dame for Christmas vacation.
This low vacation rate is good on all trains leaving South Bend from Dec. 16 to Dec. 21 inclusive, and is good on all trains returning to South Bend to an including Jan. 6.
See James H. McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall, for details.
N. D. Jewelry Ladies compacts Rings-pins Brush sets
Dress sets
N. D. Pillows
Pennants
Bill folds
LIMITED TRAINS BETWEEN CHICAGO AND SOUTH BEND
“Every Hour on the Hour”
SOUTH SHORE LINE
TWO STORES Downtown and on the Campus
123 So. CZ Michigan
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MnrRpth
COACH ANDY KERR OF COLGATE summed up his season by remarking . . . “WE WERE UNBEATEN, UNTIED, UNSCORED ON . . . AND UNINVITED! (to the TOURNAMENT OF ROSES) . . . there will be NO FOOTBALL CAPTAIN AT NORTHWESTERN next year . . . the co-eds arranged too many affairs in honor of PUG RENT-NER to suit COACH HANLEY . . . the ARMY came back against the NAVY to prove that they are a great football team . . . and enhanced NOTRE DAME’S VICTORY . . . which certain writers were trying to call “HOLLOW.”
BABE DIDRIKSON, woman Olympic sensation, is ENDORSING A CERTAIN AUTOMOBILE THROUGH NEWSPAPER ADVERTISEMENTS . . . CHARLIE PADDOCK came to grief through capitalizing upon his athletic accomplishment . . . there are 43 greyhound tracks in LONDON, ENGLAND AND 120 UNLICENSED DOG TRACKS IN OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY . . . ROGERS HORNSBY IS BACK WITH ST. LOUIS AGAIN ... as a player . . . the AGA KHAN,
Indian potentate, has won more than $1,250,000 in first money in his ten years on the English turf .... his horses are bred at his SHEESHOON stud, KILDARE, IRELAND.
4
BAT BATTALINO has retired from the ring . . . and at the peak of his form . . . W. L. (YOUNG) STRIBLING will invade the ENGLISH rings after his tour of AUSTRALIA is completed . . . JOHN WHITE (age 90) died last week in SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK ... he played golf for 74 years and learned the game as a boy on the famous SAINT ANDREW’S course in SCOTLAND BABE RUTH made more home runs (60) in 1927 than the entire team of the CHICAGO CUBS made during the 1932 season . . . MICKEY BREEN, LOUISVILLE (Ky.) BOXER, was reading a newspaper while confined to his bed with the “flu” ... a headline informed him that he had been knocked out the previous night in a fight at PIQUA, OHIO . . . the promoter is being investigated.
TO-MORROW’S GAME IS THE LAST OF “THE DEBTS” CAPTAIN PAUL HOST promised to pay ... the game will be watched by the LARGEST CROWD of the season, 105,000 . . . U. S. C. possesses the greatest line the coast has seen in years . . . and a big, fast backfield . . . NOTRE DAME will enter the game on even
terms with the TROJANS, as far as newspaper comment is concerned . • * but “HUNK” ANDERSON CAME THROUGH WITH PLAYS THIS WEEK THAT THE EFFICIENT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SCOUTS WILL THINK THEY MISSED AT THE ARMY GAME ... a win for Notre Dame will create a dilemma and headaches for choosers of the NATIONAL CHAMPION.
IT DOESN’T COST MUCH TO GO HOME THIS CHRISTMAS
We’ve made it possible for you to go home this holiday vacation at unusually low cost. New reduced rates, good in coaches; also sleeping cars—space extra, will be in effect between practically all points on The Milwaukee Road, also connecting lines.
LEMQNTREES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
Before planning your trip it will pay you to get in touch with The Milwaukee Road travel specialist whose name and address are shown below. Let him arrange for tickets—attend to all the details. Every year thousands of students find this a. convenient and happy way to insure a pleasant and economical trip.
Every year more and more students. are showing their preference for The Milwaukee Road—its luxurious equipment and fast trains—attention and courtesy from attendants all, along the line.
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in .good eye-care.)	’
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
You’ll appreciate Milwaukee Road service and the help our representatives are glad to give you at any time.
Commwucatc with
A. Tansley -Traveling Passenger Agent
Phone Central 7600	.
100 West Monroe St.
Chicago
First Aid for unbroken joints
How to keep silt and sand from clogging telephone cable ducts was one problem put up to engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories. No known method of joining sections of vitrified clay conduit effected a seepage-tight joint. -
With scientific thoroughness, telephone men made many tests under service conditions. They devised a bandage of cheese-cloth, waterproof paper and mortar. Easily made and applied, this mortar bandage is tight against silt and sand. It prevents clogging, greatly simplifies the installation of new telephone cables and the removal of old ones.
Through solving such interesting problems, Bell System men work steadily nearer to their goal —telephone service of highest possible efficiency.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
•>
" Everywhere I go, I have to listen to the same thing. 'Try Chesterfields. Honestly, they are milder, and you simply must try them!9
THEY’RE MILDER— THEY TASTE BETTER
"Me...try Chesterfields! Why, I haven't smoked anything else. That’s how important mildness and better taste are to me!
"No wonder Chesterfield smokers are so enthusiastic.”
CHESTERFIELD RADIO'PROGRAM Every night except Sunday, Colombia Coast-to-Coast Network.
© 1932. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. .