
Bruno's Pizza ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 119 U.S. 31 {just north of campus} Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 273-3890 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  

Bai Jo's 
Noodle House / 
-·· •'. _______..... .­


Check out those issues you missed last year 
SCHOLASTIC ~ 

,/MAG.AZ~f 
... ., 
~~ . 
... 
~ 

www.nd.edu/ ~scholast 

MAGAZINE 

by Allison Fashek 
Years of coeducation at Notre Dame: 26. Female student body presidents: 0. Few women are running and those who are haven't been serious contenders. Scholastic examines the campus political 
· climate and how it's particularly chilling toward women. 
Swing Fever 
The'40s dance craze is making a huge comeback across the country, and Notre Dame students are joining in the turns, the pretzels, and the pull-throughs. With lessons available from RecSports and the Ballroom dance club, everyone has a chance to get into the swing of things. by Jen Coleman 

Fielding Dreams 
Even after losing to North Carolina and dropping to third in the national rankings, the womens' soccer team is still a contender for the national championship. 
by Joseph Malichio 
Answering the Call by Mike McCarthy 8 Changing of the Guard by Melissa Kalas 10 Making the Grade by Jim Pastore 12 Job Security by Patrick Downes 14 Speaking from the Heart by Joe Gallagher 25 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 ND Notebook 5 Man on the Street 7 Campus W_atch 20 Splinters 21 Out of Bounds 28 On Other Campuses 29 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME• SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 

~ 
0 
l­
o 
LU LU 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
~ 
LL. 
A Signof the Times 
Sitting through a 45-23 loss in East Lansing with some friends two weeks ago was painful enough. One Michi­gan State fan found a way to compound our pain. It happened in the third quarter of MSU' s touchdown avalanche. A 30-something woman, proudly donning Spartan green, turned in our general direction and com­menced taunting. But this was no typical taunt. She made the sign of the cross. Re­peatedly. Mockingly. Wearing a stupid grin. Needless to say, we were incredulous at this blatant display of religious prejudice. So, being the classy young Catholics we are, we responded with chants of "pagan," and reminded her of the eternity of hell that awaited her. Our rude riposte was only small consolation, though. This woman's unfortunate gesture left an offensive im­pression. Of course, our public school sisters and brothers don't hold a monopoly on harmful prejudices. For several reasons, prejudices not the least among them, Notre Dame has never elected a female student body presi­dent. Allison Fashek examines the reasons for this in our cover story, which begins on page 16. Prejudices may have also played a role in the cases of gender discrimination that have arisen from negative tenure deci­sions. That story begins on page 15. 

Also Inside 
Jen Coleman takes a swing at the latest dance trend on page 26, and on page 22 Joseph Malichio examines the women's soccer team as they try to build a dynasty. Baseball fans should check out the second installment of Scott Cullen's "Man on the Street" column on page 7. 
Irish Need Apply 
Scholastic is looking for writers, as usual, and we' re particular! yin needofmore sports and news writers. If you want to write, lay out pages, take photographs ordraw, please contact us at 1-7569 or pick up an applica­tion at our office in the bowels of South Dining Hall. 
Get Well Soon 
Our thoughts and prayers are with Keenan RA Brent Moberg as he recovers from an aneurysm. Get well soon, Brent. . 
Also, all our best to Walsh freshman Miranda Thomas, who was recently diag­nosed with a form ofleukemia and is under­going treatment at the Indiana University Cancer Center. 

Editor in Chief 
61 Years Ago: Enduring a "Suicide Schedule" 

Elmer Layden, head coach of the football team in 1937, had a difficult schedule to deal with that year, as reported in the September 24, 1937, issue of Scholastic Maga­zine: 
"A Question Mark," was Elmer Layden's characterization ofthe 1937 Notre Dame Varsity .... The head coach exuded his usual pessimism as he pointed out that all but three of last year's regulars would have to be re­placed. Besides that the Irish open against Drake which last Friday beat Central College, 47-0. 
Imagine if Layden had to face the pre­·vious year's national champions in his opening game. Fortunately, Davie and his squad don't have to face intimidat­ing Drake College this year. 
-BC 






Letters to the Editor: 
.. SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCTOBER 5 -OCTOBER 9 ''MOVEMENTS THAT MADE HISTORY/HERSTORY" 
FIRESIDE CHATS (FREE LUNCH) October 5 -9 12:00pm -1:00pm Reckers South Dining Hall 
Mon., Dr. Kathleen Weigert, "The Peace Movement" Tues., Women's Movement Weds., Fr. Ted Hesburgh, "The Civil Rights Movement: From the Beginning" Thurs., Alan Bigger, "The Greening of Notre Dame" Fri., Fr. Ken Maley, "Quantum Spirituality" 
CULTURE ON THE ENTERTAINMENT FREE 
QUAD -ONTHEQUAD
REFRESHMENTS 


October 5 -9 October 5 -9 
4:30pm -5:30pm 
Reckers 

South Dining Hall 
SEPTEMBER -24, 1998 


WHO CUT THE CHEESE? 


Raising a Stink 
Skunk sightings are on the rise 
The strange smell emanating from North Quad lately isn't the scent of Stanford and Keenan residents crawling home after a wild night. Along with students, Frisbees, alums and Zahm couches, skunks have become a common sight around the area in past weeks. Sophomore Elizabeth Barry was walking from Haggar Hall to Lafortune September 9 when she saw something "big and fat and black with a big white stripe. It was obvi­ously a skunk," she says. According to Barry, the skunk then =>--::=:~'?TT~ ran into the middle of North Quad and the passersby who stopped to watch it began to walk away cautiously. "[Then] all of a sudden it darted back into the bushes in front of Keenan," she says. Keenan RA Chris Naumann, along with some hallmates, found a dead skunk outside Keenan several weeks ago. "There was this 
... really bad stench in the windows every once in a while, a mix of skunk and roadkill," he says. "We figured it was a skunk spraying like crazy." Naumann and other Keenan residents in­ve.stigated. "There was a hole where a vent comes out," Naumann says. "We started 



li~li!!!ilii~;;;1i1~~~i~~fi;i!:!:~~1:
1~:1~:;ver·•;.. i• ,J,•··•• ~;);?,fef~oabounht•CllpOf,offie,detaii,ia tolnPrrow', .·j
· 

~;~I~t~:~ll~~-*~:il~~~il7t~l~i~1~~i¾;i!;I 
!Stop., Co·l·.ta.b.o-·.·..·•·.......·.·.·~........f.·12il...·.l.·.a.·.·.. ·Ic.·e. i$g···o~n.:g.··.·.·.o.·..n .. r·q·g·· .. ... ..··.!.·•.Go·•.a··.· ... .. }!D·h,.h.utwe

...·.t.•·. .. ·~.·.o.·.u ..ai·.n .....hea···.·.·d·'.··.l..a ..
irate ahd:Listerf ..• < kn9i1Mhoutthat tapem the backseatofyourqar. < ·.· 
t.. . . . ·.. •. . ... ······-•~-·-•···-·---· ___. . :.:,.. .. . .. . 
poking around and it smelled really bad." They pried off the vent and dug out the skunk. "It was dead," he says. "It was pretty disgusting." 
The skunks aren'tjust a North Quad prob­lem. Junior Dave Chamberlin had a run-in with a campus skunk last week on South Quad. While riding his bike between Dillon and Alumni, he saw a skunk dart in front of him. Chamberlin tried to swerve but couldn't. "Ithad been raining and my brakes weren't working," he says. "I missed it with my front wheel but I ran over it with my back wheel." When Chamberlin looked back, the skunk had already scurried off. "I didn't smell, so I guess the skunk was 
· OK," he says. 
Industrial hygienist 

Scott Knight at the Office of Risk Management says that he hasn 'treceived any complaints about skunks. The university has a few different animal control plans. "Ifthey're not causing a prob­lem, typically nothing is done," Knight says. 
But if an animal is reported dead or is causing serious disturbances, the university contracts with outside companies for re­moval. 
-Annie Ralph 

Q&A 
10uestions with 
911's go-to guy 

There are some people you tend to forget about until they save your life .Asafirefighter andEMT(EmergencyMedica!Technician), Keith Cramer has been one ofthose people for 32 years.And hisjob involves more than removing cats from trees. Cramer spent 23 years as a member of the South Bend Fire Department before coming to Notre Dame in December of1989. 
When people ask you what you do, what do you say? 
I protect property and people ... and then, well, if your car catches on fire I'll do the best I can to make sure there's as little damage as possible and that you're OK. 

What's one adjective you would use to describe your job? 
It's rewarding. It just does something for you to have someone come back and say, "Thanks for saving my life." That feels good. But you also have times when you bring someone back from a heart attack and make them a vegetable for their whole life. 
How do you deal with situations like that? 
It's one ofthose things you have to putin the back of your mind and realize that if God wants me to save them I save them, but ifHe don't want me to save them, well, then they ain't going to make it. 
What.have you teamed from fighting fires? Respect. Twenty years ago I looked forward to fighting fires, but now I don't care ifl see another one again -but ifl do I'll take care of it. 
What kind of hours do you work here? 
We work 24 hours at a time. I was here at 7 this morning and I will not· leave until 7 · continued on next page -. 
z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m 
tp 
0 0 
7' 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


~ 
0 0 
co 
w 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
tomorrow morning. 
Do you get many calls on football week­ends for excessive drinking, and if so, what do you do with the fan? Yes, we do get a lot of calls. So say that student is you. You 'rednmk. OK, I get there and I'd like to let you sit there and pass out and let you sleep it off, butas soon as I leave you there ... you vomit and die. Who's responsible? I am. 
What's the strangest call you've gotten? We got a call during one of your dorm dances you do around here .... I asked the student where the rector was, and he said "in a coffin." So what did we do? We got that rector out of that coffin and took care of the problem. 
Do you get to drive the fire truck? We switch around a lot ... so for three days I'll be in charge ofdriving a car and then the next three days I'll be driving the rig­that's the big one. 
Have you ever been stopped at the gate while trying to get the rig on campus? No, but I have gotten stopped in my plain vehicle before when I forgot my hang tag. 
Which has more entertainment value for you: ER or the Jerry Springer Show? I'd have to say ER. But sometimes it's not too realistic. The way those doctors do CPR wouldn't save anybody. 
-Zac Kulsrud 
1

·•···~<1~i~:b1ltf~Wf~~~;i:~lftf}~fut~i'*{T .·})·. c~i:~~3!11•.•.··. 
c-?.tJY>i/J~r6tf~::oaiiie':t':::. 
·. ,·:
··; ·,-~ . ~ . .., . 
·· ..?\:·r-· 
~_\:~; ::) :/ -.-:? .. -. 
,'.':<{\::, 
?t;F/ 

,second ·year in a row. Notre _Dame 'i~ h~s compileda7_1-~6-2i~cord thi,s,deca?e, >:,: 8.. :Aiab'ama ;'._:_. , :. '. ... joinedbyothertraditionalpow~rs_'--P~n.n ·· has onlythreet(?p.~10finis],1esii;i theA~poll · .' />:' .-..,._. / ·: -_-,,-. ··.. -. · ,/_ -:. ,._ .. _: /'.'/) · State, Mi¢higari;-J\:lab~a ~ tchnake-up ' i.n:$:e '90s;}_vith it~_Iasfo~~~~.oming'in 19_~·3: ·, , .<'\:.9.-..:;INeb~aska,.)... :-.: _.: ·; ··;>":· 
the 
list; ,which w_as 'co~piled i±~ a t~_l_e~ · . <?~~~ _ohio..,~t~~e;~~-s fe"!-~~-t~p .!.?.i~I),~~e~;:.,_ ... :. .,, :.;-;:.:: 10~~;'.fex~s-A&M<-'.·... ·. .-_-;",'-; 
... ,. · . ·. . .,. ,.. . •. ·'· /·: ,:-.:·."":-::.9.hns Ham1lt.OTJ. '; ...:.-'·"../;·;·., ·:·,::>: Oc.,."()"."·:';' :.':';.'\-:;,;cc:•.. _<··:.... ·;;.:,·.'"; 

WEBSITE REVIEW 


Star Wars Online 
The internet is abuzz with news about the first 
Star Wars prequel 
Millions of moviegoers plunked down money to see the "Special Edition" of Star Wars in the theater, and ended up seeing just five minutes of new clips. Now, another movie behemoth looms in the future as at least 120 minutes ofnew Star Wars footage will arrive in theaters this May as part of Star Wars: Episode I, the first ofthee planned prequels to the original films. 
This new movie begins years before the first "Star Wars," and features Anakin Skywalker as a child, Ben Kenobi as a teenageJediandtheEm-,---­peror as Senator Pal patine. The new Star Wars takes place in a world where the Jedi Knights rule supreme and the Old Republic has 
not yet fallen to the Em-E-:,:, i._''~0 •,,;; pire. Naturally, this new movie will eventually lead into the events of the Star Wars trilogy, but that shouldn't diminish the impact ofits charac­ters, special effects and story. 

According to this web site, the new Star 

Wars movie will begin playing in theaters on May 21, 1999. As if announcing the release date nine months early isn't enough, George Lucas has also declared that the 
movie will only open in state-of-the-art the­
aters that 1can handle its need for high­
quality sound· and detailed visuals. Better 
get in line now, or at least log onto http:// www.starwars.com/episode-i/ to keep up 
on the upcoming Star Wars frenzy. 
-Joe Gallagher 

-----· 
RETURN OF THE 
DROIDS. Much younger versions Qf R2-D2'and C3POwm· l 
. .•. ' • ,--1 

SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
MAGAZINE 
Why do Mark McGwire and SammySosa's home.runs mean so lllUChtopeople? 


' . 
','Because b~seball is the great Ameri­can pastirne,'and there is no singleact in American , sports a~ .defining, as powerful, as immediate a,s the home' · ruri. Not even a 99-yardtouchdown( .· 
The homemn is it." 
. "Somahy sportsintlle,past cbtiple .• ofyears have hacl disp~tes. People ,are tired of hearing pl<1yers whine . 
· about their contracts.These guys :•a;e giving ussomethi11g to root for 
•. and they're~eaUygn~atguy's,soifs.·.. · .. easyto rootforthem.'\ ·. ·. .. ·. 
'·· ., ' -. . . 
' ·c . ,,--,.Jtr 
e !hey?"· · · • ~8cirns ~YALUS6N FASHEK. ···• 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 


ITMIGHTBE, ITCOLILDBE, ITIS 
The home run race reminds us ofwhat was once good 
BY SCOTT CULLENThe camaraderie, freedom and poten­tialfor good conversation on a seem­ingly endless Indiana state road are what make the road trip a staple of the college experience. And when the eventual destination is some sort of sporting event, the trip assumes almost mythic proportions. So it was last week as four friends and I saddled up in D2 and set out for Wrigley Field. We had right field seats at Sammy Sosa's house on this day and as we relaxed in our s~ats, any one of us could have said, "It can't get much better than this." Sosa's race with Mark McGwire for the home run crown has made this year, and we got to hold a tiny piece of history that late summer afternoon. For so many reasons, baseball is back this season, resurrected from the depths of middle-aged disgust and youthful indif­ference. As we took it all in, I couldn't help but recognize that this resurgence has a meaning beyond the Sports Center highlights and Nike commercials. As James Earl Jones said in Field of Dreams, "The one constant through all the years has been baseball. This game is part of our past ... it reminds us of all that was once good, and could be again." In recent years, however, the grand old game has fallen on hard times. The romantic side of the sport has become difficult to reconcile with the greed and selfishness that now appear to overrun it. The knockout punch carrie in 1994, when a players' strike remained un­settled and the World Series was canceled, a sin which some longtime fans have yet to forgive. In a decade where instant gratifica­. tion reigns supreme, the fast pace ofMichael Jordan's NBA drew many fans away from 
the national pastime. Feeling that their de­votion and money were ill-spent on un­grateful baseball players, Americans took their apple pie and turned elsewhere for entertainment. 
Sadly, the greed and anger that sank the game in the early 1990s also robbed us of part ofour identity. Baseball is how Ameri­cans have spent their disposable hours and income for over a century. Old ballparks in old cities are intrinsically tied to the nation's experiences. Baseball has been the "one constant through all the years," providing a common diversion for a society dealing with depressions, world wars, political cri­ses and domestic tension. But most impor­tantly, it has offered the means to bridge generations through common experience. This summer my brothers and I sat in Yan­kee Stadium with our dad, just as he had with his. They watched Mickey Mantle. We watched Paul O'Neil. As I sat there, I couldn't help but feel a connection with the grandfather I never got to meet. No other game can do that. 
McGwire and Sosa now offer baseball a chance at redemption. For .the first time in a long while grade schoolers have baseball heroes again. 
By no means does this special summer cure all the problems ailing the game. It is still riddled with such evils as expansion, high ticket prices and the new Comiskey Park. But as people come back to the game, grow excited at its chases and invest their emotions in it, a central tradition continues. As I watched Sosa's 60th home run crash to earth on Waveland A venue amid a delirious throng ofCubs faithful, it was hard to deny all thatwas right with the game. It can't get 
much better than this.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  7  
MAGAZINE  

$ )> 
z 
0 
z 
-, I 
m 
(./)
-, 
iiO m 
-,m 
.....J 
(/) 



w a... ering the Call
::J 

~ 
Each year a handful ofstudents enter Moreau Seminary to determine 
<( 
u whether they have been called to a religious life 
nary are academic with a slant toward reli­flexible," Newton says. "It is important to BY Mnm McCARTHY 
gious intellectualism. "[They tend to] have remember that being apriest is a job." He 
fter putting together the events ofthe a history of and an ability to relate well with feels that living in Moreau is comparable to past weekend, who hasn't lain in bed members of the religious community and graduate school, a preparatory period dur­
n a Sunday morning and thought [are] probably active in the campus minis­ing which a student not only learns about a about joining the priesthood? While this try," Newton says. Most candidates have profession before entering it but decides line of thought usually fades by afternoon, been out of college one to two years and whether to enter it at all.° the issue is a serious one for many and went to Notre Dame or Holy Cross. Once he decides to enter Moreau, the perhaps has more relevance at Notre Dame Along with these characteristics, the candidates spends a year deciding if it is the than at other schools. Yet no matter how typical candidate also has some misgivings. right choice for life. This is called the can­calm and outwardly secure many seminary Some of the more pressing obstacles in­didate year and is a period of deep intro­candidates are, they also face many of the clude the commitment, celibacy and dis­spection. If a candidate gets past this year same doubts that keep so many away from agreement with some of the Vatican's ide­and is secure in his decision, he may go to the vocation. So what is it that keeps these als. Colorado''for the Novitiate year. This is thoughts at bay and makes someone enter Commitment can be a major concern. often a difficult time because the candidate the Moreau Seminary? Candidates face six years of seminary work is isolated from the Notre Dame commu­
According to Fr. Steve Newton, who has followed by a move to an unknown destina­nity. He will then take vows that are bind­counseled many men considering joining tion. :'The key is that the candidate under-. ing, one year at a time. After at least three the seminary, typical candidates for the semi-stands the meaning of being faithful but years, he will take final vows and be or­
SCHOlASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


seminary until after they've been out of school and have worked a few years, ac­cording to Duba. "Old College is a semi­nary house for those who are thinking about vocation," he says. "I'd been thinking of it and I didn't see a reason to wait since it was heavy on my heart." 
Graduate student Mike Floreth's experi­ence involved spending two years at Old College as an undergraduate, putting off a career as a chemical engineer. "[I wanted to] experience the positives of the voca­tional life," he says. During his time at Old College, Floreth became apprehensive about his upcoming decision because he liked living there so much. "I was afraid it would be the right thing," he says. Floreth's an­swer to the problem was to take things one step at a time and do whatever felt right until it felt wrong. 
Daily life at Moreau is focused on the balance between the intellectual and com­munal aspects ofreligious life. Seminarians attend morning prayers at 7:10 a.m. They then go to class until 5:00p.m., when evening Mass begins. This lasts until 5:45 p.m. when the seminarians get together for evening prayer. On Monday nights, or Pro­gram Nights, Moreau sponsors lectures. Thursday nights are community nights and Mass begins at 5:15 p.m. for lay persons and seminarians. They also partake in a ministry or. service project in addition to attending classes. 
Duba meets with a superior priest once a month to discuss what he likes and dislikes about the program. "[For me, it was] hard to be required to go to mass everyday," Duba reflects, since he feels he is more of an unstructured person. 
The socialization of those undergradu­ates at Old College and Moreau are also obviously different from those ofother Notre Dame students. One ofthe main differences was the smaller number of people at Old College. Although there were only about 14 men there, Duba says their fraternization somewhat resembled that ofother students. "[It was] like a dorm because we hung out, ordered pizza at night and hung out with other kids on campus," he says. At times, they would invite other students to pray with them at Old C::ollege. 
Life at Old Cqllege is not as strict as Moreau. Students in Old College are able to attend SYR.s and even date. The goal is to let undergraduates interested in the semi­nary explore this option without cutting off ties to college life, according to Floreth. 
"They encourage you to get involved on 

SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
· 


campus," Duba says. Ironically, one thing the seminary does not encourage is theol­. ogy majors. Duba says this is because most ofthe young men in the seminary eventual! y 
decide that the lifestyle is not for them. 
There are a few other differences. At 

Moreau, the men no longer join their class­
mates atSouth Dining Hallfor meals, eating 
together 'instead. Duba also lives with about 
25 other seminarians in addition to 10 to 15 
priest or brothers. And although the men 
have not taken any vows, they are no longer 
supposed to· date. Duba feels this candidate 
year will give him a chance to really become 
involved in religious life. "You get your feet 
wet and look at whether [you are] called to 
this kind of life," he says. 
Some of the issues Sebesta faced had to 

do with comparing his choice with those of 
his friends outside ofthe seminary. "[I] was 
able to calm myself through prayer and this 
period was over with fairly quickly," he 
says. 
Byviewing the time spent in the seminary 

as similar to time spent earning an MBA, he 
was able to deal with the comparison and 
began examining how to interpret the three 
oaths he would have to take: celibacy, obe­
dience and poverty. As Sebesta understands 
it, celibacy means that a family is not a wife 
and two kids, but the whole communicy. 
Although he will miss having_ the stereo­
typical family, he can claim afamily larger 
than any non-celibate. "Obedience is not 
submission to the church hierarchy but sub­mission to the will of the community," he says. Candidates share a common purse and learn how to live simply. 
Seminary life is still not for everyone. Although senior Alex Scheidler did not at­tend Moreau Seminary, he spent two years living a similar life. He was not disen­chanted with the life ofa seminarian, but the vow ofobedience and the isolation ofsemi­nary life were obstacles for him. "Your family and friends are essentially r~placed by the other seminarians for at least two years," he says. 
While the idea of never marrying both­ered Scheidler, it was not such a formidable obstacle when he thought ofthe community in which he would be living. "[The closest comparison] would be the military commu­nity with the focus on preparation for saving souls instead of waging war," Scheidler says. He stayed in the sem_inary, hoping to move past his doubts, but soon left. 
Ifthere is one thing that seminarians must have in order to succeed, it is a disciplined way of thinking about life. 
It means having the ability to say that being the father figure in the community is more important than getting married and having sex. It means having the mental focus to prepare for a sometimes daunting commitment. 
Seminarians can then move beyond the obstacles that make the vocation so chal­lenging. 0 Kate Jacques contributed to this report 
SCHOLASTIC 9 
MAGAZIN_E 


I 
! 
I 
i· 
Changing ofthe Guard 
Despite past incidents ofhazing, Irish Guard members argue that their organization resembles a fraternity only in the best ways 
BY MELISSA KALAS-ameralights flash. Lines oflittle girls 
C

in pigtails, middle-aged alumni and 
first-game freshmen weave their way through Gotl Quad anticipating their ar­rival. But not everyone will get to brush shoulders with them -they have a job to do. 
It's a football Saturday, and the Irish Guard is at attention. 
"It's not a position I'm used to being in," says Rick Sruren, a junior member of the guard, referring to his celebrity status. The 10 members that make up this autograph­hounded, heavily photographed contingent of the band are almost as popular as the football team itself. 
"It's always special before home games -little kids asking you for an autograph or having your picture taken with them. Once · there was a man who held up his three-year­old daughter and asked me ifI would marry _ her," guard captain Brian Hardy says. 
The treatment they receive in South Bend seems to follow the guard to enemy territo­ries as ·well. "Opposing fans are usually impressed," Hardy says. "They're curious about what it is that we do." 
On the surface, the Irish Guard fulfills its duties by securing the safety of the band from obnoxious fans in the crowd and, in some cases, other football teams. During ­last season's bout with Navy, the opposing players trampled the Irish marching band during its post-game performance to say a prayer in the middle ofthe field. The guards intervened, asking the Navy coaches to hold their traditional prayer elsewhere. 
The guards succeeded-but not without resistance. and profanity from the Navy the safety of the band, the guard believes there is more substance to their existence. "It's a presence. Our appearance makes the band look a little bitbetter," James Cochran, a junior guard member, says. 
He and other members agree that tradi­tion also plays an integral role since the guard has been around for 55 years. Hardy calls them "a visible symbol" of the many traditions associated with Notre Dame. 
Historically, the guard has always been able to buildits tradition with few problems. However, its past is not without contro­

"When you get 10 guys that" spend a lot of time together, there's a certain connection to the group. There is a 'good frat' aspect to it." 
-Guard captain Brian Hardy 

coaching staff. "We went over there with no intentionofharmingthem,andtheresponse · 
we got was kind of disappointing, espe­cially having it come from one of our ser­_vice academies," Hardy says. 
Althoughtheirmainpurposeistooversee 
LEFT, LEFT, LEFT RIGHT LEFT. Every girl on campus wants to know .what's under the kilts the guard wear on football Saturdays. 

versy. 
Some students argue that the men who form the Irish guard possess the qualities found among the members of fraternities. Stories ofhazing new members have spread throughout the Notre Dame community. "I think they're [more] like a frat than any dorm on campus," senior Sara Burke says. 
Butcutrentmembers claim that the stigma is a thing of the past. "Every year there's a meeting with the administration because several years ago there were a lot of prob­lems with hazing," Hardy says. "Everyone that's passed through the last six years has worked hard to clean up that image. We have a good standing with the administra­tion and hopefully with the students." 
Incidents dating back to 1987 and 1992 reveal unorthodox behavior by the Irish guard members, which included the initia­tion of new guardsmen. 
"Any initiation beyond the requirements for the guard is regarded as hazing," Father Randy Rentnor says. Rentnor meets with them every year to establish disciplinary guidelines. 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
that since 1992, the men who

"They do [ conduct initiations] but/don't 
have been se­

know about them. It's a secret to the guys lected to guard 
the marching

and the organization:' band have been 
reputable ones.

-Dr. Luther Snavely 
"We've heard 

"Once you've been accepted into the university or any of its organizations, you don't need to be initiated [into them]." As a result of straying outside of the rules high­lighted in du Lac, the guilty members ofthe insubordinate guard were dismissed from the organization. 
But there still whispers of possible "wel­coming" rituals still held within the Irish guard. 
"They do [conduct initiations] but I don't know about them. It's a secret to the guys and the organization," says Dr. Luther Snavely, director of the marching band. "They do certain things to welcome new members," he says. 
Snavely adds that the university monitors such behavior. Cochran, however, does not deny that these initiations occur. "I'm not at liberty to say that kind of thing," he says. 
Snavely believes that the guard members in fact embody some of the more positive qualities of a fraternity. "The fact that those guys are very close and constantly together makes them resemble a frat in that respect." 
Hardy agrees. "When you get 10 guys that spend a lot of time together, there's a certain connection in the group. There is a 'good frat' aspect to it. It is the result of having 10 guys together a lot." 
Saxen says that they eat in the dining halls together and often hang out in each others' dorms. 
He is also impressed with the respect that he is given from the older guards -some­thing that is hard to earn among new broth­ers in a fraternity. 
"They're eager to help us out ... they don't expect us to know everything and are will­ing to help us with the routine. They don't get frustrated with us," Saxen says. 
Despite the blemishes in their past, the guard is returning to the stature it had when it was first established over a half-century ago. At the beginning of the tryout every fall, each candidate's academic standing is screened by the Office of Student Affairs. 
"We want to make sure we don't have members who have disciplinary problems," Snavely says. "We don't want a student that would embarrass the university." He adds 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
nothing but good things from the guard over the past few years," Rentnor says. "That's the way we want to keep it." 
Notre Dame students seem to enjoy the presence of the guard. "I think the Irish Guard is one of the traditions of Notre Dame, and we as a student body take pride in them. They represent us well; they are a Notre Dame institution," sophomore Brian O'Donoghue says. "They help protect the integrity of Notre Dame and I respect them for that." 
Other members of the student body are even a little jealous of the guard. 
"They have the reputation ofbeing some of the coolest guys on campus," freshman Tim Dolezal says. "It's not fair -they get all the women." 
The Irish guard has riseri above the accu­sations and convictions that plagued them in recent years and continue to occupy a focal point on the field. 
In the shadow of controversy, they have preserved an unmatched tradition. Perhaps many Saturdays from now they '11 be back to see that their traditions have been main­tained. D 

V') 
~ 
UJ 
z 
EACH YEAR, NOTRE DAME ATTRACTS SOME OF THE MOST GIFTED AND INTELLIGENT 
students in the world. The rise in everything from the average SAT score to the class rank of incoming freshmen shows the increasing caliber of the student population. Yet, in the midst of this intellectual growth, Notre Dame finds itself in a struggle. When students apply to graduate schools and compete for post-baccalaureate fellowships, the success rate is far shortofthatatothercomparable universities across the country. Quite simply, Notre Dame graduates aren't ... 


The problem has become so pro­nounced that it prompted the forma­tion of an ad hoc committee on fellowships in 1994. Chaired by Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies, the committee's purpose was to consider why Notre Dame undergraduates have had so little success obtaining Rhodes and Marshall awards. The final report indicated a sense of alarm at Notre Dame students' inability to successfully employ their aca­demic talents. Committee members con­cluded that such failure reflected poorly not only on the student body, but also on the university itself. "The dearth ofRhodes and Marshall winners raises questions abouthow Notre Dame identifies, develops and en­courages its best students, about the quality of the academic atmosphere on campus and about the undergraduate curriculum," the report states. Simply put, because universi­ties are judged by the academic success of their undergraduates, the lack of scholar­ship winners compromises the prestige of the university. The report contains four recommenda­tions, including the creation of an office to 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


by James Pastore 

provide students with the necessary infor­mation concerning fellowships and merit scholarships open to undergraduates. "[The creation of the office] was the thing we thought most important," Dean Kolman says. The report envisions the office not only providing information to the students, but also helping students prepare applications for graduate schools and fellowships. With the appointment ofAssistant Provost Collin Meissner and the subsequent creation of a website containing information on fellow­ships and scholarships, the program has already begun to take shape. 
In addition to the administration's ef­forts, the problem has now gained the atten­tion of the Student Union. Recognizing the need for Notre Dame students to compete at a higher level after graduating, the Student Senate approved the topic for this semester's Report to the Board ofTrustees. Along with other recommendations, the main focus of the report will concern the establishment of an Undergraduate Scholarship Office and continued support for a campus-wide Writ­ing Center. 
Mark Massoud, a senior and a member of the Student Union's Board ofTrustees Com­mittee, feels this is a problem that needs to be solved. "Basically, Notre Dame has a pitiful, pitiful record with these post-under­graduate scholarships," Massoud says. "It's absolutely pitiful. We have had two Rhodes and one Marshall winner in the '90s." Last year alone Harvard students won a com­bined 14 Marshall and Rhodes Scholar­ships. 
Notre Dame students' lackluster perfor­mance seems to have a number of sources. "I think there are a couple of strains of thought on that," Kolman says. "It seems that students weren't thinking about it early enough." The competitive nature of these­lection process requires students to invest large amounts oftime in writing essays and applying for the scholarships. Kolman feels that students need to consider applying long before their senior year. Meissner agrees and envisions a center that provides infor­mation and guidance to st_udents from a centralized location. "Right now, I think that the process is still bewildering, it's disconnected," Meissner says. "I would like a high-traffic, neutral location. I'd like it to 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 


be a place of first awareness." 
Aside from the lack ofstudent awareness, ineffective writing constitutes one of the biggest obstacles to the post-graduate suc­cess of the Notre Dame student. "I think there has been concern for a long time, series of one-night workshops on a wide range of writing topics. Duffy, who as­sumed his position as director of the center at the beginning of this semester, comes with awealth of experience in writing in­struction. A winner of a Fulbright Fellow-

especially from the College of Arts and Letters, that there is not assistance for stu­dents in writing beyond the first year," Kolman says. 
The absence of such assistance can be seen in, among other things, poorly written personal statements for graduate school ap­plications. Because personal statements are so such an important part ofthe application process, many Notre Dame students suffer when competing for slots at prestigious graduate schools. "Writing the personal statement is kind oflike looking back at the chapter of college and writing the final paragraph," Massoud says. "Deans of law 
schools and medical schools are saying these students can't write ef­fective personal state­ments. It's· one of those things that Notre Dame is failing in." 
Concerns about the quality of student writ­ing have existed for a number of )'ears. "In looking at the history, there was a proposal 20 years ago to have a writ­ing center," Kolman says. 
ship himself, Duffy worked at the Univer­
sity of Wisconsin's writing center before 
coming to Notre Dame. 
Drawing on his experience at the Univer­

sity of Wisconsin, Duffy hopes to create a 
center open to all students and even faculty 
members. "A good writing center is. a vi­
brant, intellectual place where writers can 
bring in their work and talk to people who 
have been trained to listen to them and to ask 
them good questions," Duffy says. Eventu­
ally, the program would reach out to stu­
dents throughanumberofinitiatives. "There ·­
are a number of different models, but what · I see happening here is one-on-one tutoring by undergraduate students who have re­ceived specific training in tutoring writers. "It's envisioned that down the road we'll add adjuncts and graduate students," Duffy says. 
Students have met news ofthe center with 
enthusiasm. Sophomore Mark Donahey, also a member of the Student Union's Board of Trustees Committee, helped organize a number of fo­cus groups de~ 

signed to gauge student opinion. "[The students] thought the writing center was a fantastic idea," Donahey says. "I don't think anyone spoke up and said t}:J.at their writing skills are as great as they'd like them to be. The response was overwhelmingly positive." 
Massoud sees the center as a viable solu­tion to the lackluster performance of stu­dents in securing prestigious scholarships. He feels that such an improvement is neces­sary in order for Notre Dame to become a more nationally recognized academic insti­tution. "IfNotre Dame can get three or four Rhodes Scholars, our ranking will go up and we'll get an even higher level of appli-

With the hiring of John Duffy to act as director for a writing center, that proposal has finally become a reality. Current plans indicate that the writing cen­ter will be housed in a new building on the site of the Hammes' Bookstore. "The writ­ing center will be located_ on the second floor of the [new Coleman/Morse Center] along with the' First Year of Studies," Kolman says. 
Headed by Duffy, the center plans to begin operation later this semester with a 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
and workshops," Duffy explains. "[The tu­tors] will meet students in two different ways. There's going to be an actually physi­cal writing center .... The other thing we're 
-going to do is we're going to send tutors into the dorms." Duffy believes that sending tutors to the dorms will connect the social and academic lives ofstudents and create a climate where both thinking and writing is pervasive. Plans indicate that the center will initially bestaffed 
cants," Massoud says. "Theacademic struc­ture of the university will be enhanced." 
Kolman agrees and views both the estab­lishment of a writing center and the pro­posal for an Undergraduate Scholarship 
· Office as positive steps in the quest to find solutions to the problems facing Notr.eDame .students. "We would like our .... students very early on to be thinking about what they need to do to become really top-class, first­
rate students," she says.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  13 ·  
MAGAZINE  



; 
' V) 
~ 
UJ 
z 



Job Insecurity 
Several tenure decisions in recent years have led to 
charges of gender discrimination 

against the university 
by Patricl< Downes 

T:NURE IS A LIFETIME GUARANTEE OF EMPLOYMENT mtended to protect intellectual freedom. It is he single most important marker of a suc­cessful academic career and its denial can harm a person's earning potential -not to mention a person's ego -fora lifetime. The process ofbeing tenured, which varies from department to depart­
ment, consists of a year-long series of rec­ommendations and reviews, with the presi­dent of the university making a final deci­sion. It is a long and confidential process with numerous checks and balances, but some feel that it isn't always fair. 

Over the years, several significant cases ofsexual discrimination arising from tenure decisions have gone to court. In the 1980s, English professor Dolores Frese and cur­rent IUSB English professor Eileen Bender settled gender discrimination cases against the university. More recently, three major discrimination cases have brougµt the prob­lem back into focus. In 1997, former PLS professor Linda Austem settled her case against the university, and this past summer saw the resolution of two more· charges of gender discrimination. Early in the summer a jury found that the university did not discrimate against management professor Sonia Goltz. Also, Beth Kem, now a busi­ness and economics professor at IUSB, reached a settlement with Notre Dame. 
Though there seem to be many charges of discrimination arising from tenure, these cases are not unique to Notre Dame. Hun­dreds of universities have had to deal with such cases, with notable cases coming in the UniversityofCalifornia system and atNorth­westem. 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

But, "Notre Dame has had a r e a 1 1 y b a d record," says Annis Pratt, the coordinatorof the Academic Dis­crimination Task F o r c e w i t h the Nation a 1 
Women' s Studies Association (NWSA), an organization that has covered some of the legal cost of Bender's and Austem' s cases. "Notre Dame has been one of the worst in · that they are totally unrepentant," she adds, "It has gotten to the point where I can expect imagine going through a semester," says Austem, "without seeing a single grade, without receiving feedback from your pro­fessors about your tests, papers, class par­ticipation, homework, attendance or any­thing else, and then being told that you pass 
or fail ... you'll get the picture." Despite her experiences, Frese believes thattenure decisions should be confidential. 
"There are very good reasons for confiden­tiality," she says. "Ifthey [reviewers] know the person they are reviewing will have access to their review, it· will color their cando~." 
But Notre Dame philosophy professor Phil Quinn doesn't agree with this rationale. 


11Notre Dame has had a really bad record . ... Its gotten to· the point where I-can expect a telephone call every few years from a Notre 

Dame professor." 
a telephone call every few years from a Notre Dame professor." 
Some feel that the secretive nature of the tenure process is one reason why Pratt has had so many telephone calls. Throughout the tenure process, the university keeps all recommendations and comments confiden­tial. The professor in question receives no news ofhis or her status from the beginning ofthe process in October until the president makes the final decision in May. "If you 
-~ Annis Pratt 
He has evaluated tenure candidates in Cali­fornia, where the schools are often legally mandated to disclose such evaluations. "I've noticed that I haven't become any less hon­est or candid," Quinn says. He also believes that the lack of information can lead tenure candidates to conclusions that may not nec­essarily be true. "Since people don't know [why] they get a negative recommendation ... one of the things that will immediately pop into your mind ... is sex discrimina-
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 

tion." 
Though Frese believes in confidentiality, she admits that it can lead to real problems. "People in the past have introduced inap­propriate factors into the process because they felt they were covered by a cloak of secrecy," she says. 
Kem, whose case was precipitated by a series of lurid incidents, such as comments about her breasts, agrees. "There is no dis­closure at every level, so people are not held accountable for their decisions," she adds. 
Another matter that might have contrib­uted to these problems was the fact that the "Frese appeal" was not publicized until the fall of 1996. This appeal was instituted as a condition of the settlement of Frese's case in 1982, but was not printed in the faculty handbook. The appeal allowed women who have been denied tenure the opportunity to have their case reviewed by a panel that included at least one woman. Frese does not know why the appeal was not published in the faculty handbook until recently, but she thought that eligible women were informed verbally. "It was a sort of catch-as-catch­can matter.... The Provost's office would supposedly inform them," she says. The provost was unavailable for comment. 
Kem was not informed of the process until after her case had been concluded and she believes that the appeal might have made a difference in her case. 
Associate Dean of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher believes not publishing the appeal wasn't a conscious decision. "I think they really didn't think of it," she says. 
Some attribute the prevalence of these cases to a more basic cultural problem. Preacher strongly believes that Notre Dame has difficulty supporting female professors. "I do think that Notre Dame has problems with gender discrimination," she says. "We have a pretty poor record of tenuring and retaining women." 
Frese believes that the allegations and incidents brought to light by recent cases damages the cause. "Cases like the Beth Kem and the Linda Austem case hurts the recruitment of women," she says, "Rightly or wrongly, there's that impression." 
Quinri thinks Notre Dame's reputation adds to that impression. "For historical rea­sons, having to do with the patriarchal na­ture of the Roman Catholic Church and the institutional nature of Notre Dame ... Notre Dame really isn't a friendly and supportive place for women scholars," he says. "Given that atmosphere, it's easy for women to feel that they've been discriminated against." 
11lf you can imagine going through a semester without seeing a single grade, without receiving feedbacl< from your professors ... you'll get the picture." 
-Linda Austern 
For Preacher, the problem is not the result she says. "Those kind of remarks come off of an administration-wide bias. "The prob­the cuff, you know, when they're in the lems women have tend to be in the depart­weight room." mental arena," she says. Preacher feels that Kem thinks that awareness ofdiscrimina­the casual, everyday communication among tion might help curb the problem. "[There colleagues that might help prepare a profes­is] very littleproactivity involved," she says, s·or for tenure is better among male faculty "very little discussion about what consti­than among women. "Even though there tutes discrimination." But Kem has had may be mentoring, the mentoring is not of enough. "That's something for Notre Dame the same kind for women as it is for men," to think about," she says, "I'm done." D 



l$.~tt~i,,:9(f,r.····1...es~
... 
..•·.t,,,in:~T-.PL$••prolessqr•Linda·_._Austern•·.··acc~pteci·
:~~11·u1111sualseftl~rnentin•her: · ·. 
.. . .. distri111iit;,i:;or1 caie : .j · 

...­


NORE HAS-ALWJ\;; :iMPLIEDJ~IFET~ i:~-~~~nb~:~~t;~;ch~c~ :· ob s~~_uri_ty. }Ii_sf~ri~all~,. th~~e?~__ even· as .it retained his ten­. . . been a JOO, to gq with tije· secunty. ured_s~t~s. . . .. 
·:Bili: rtbrfqtt~aa'A.iiitft.ii: -•. .. .tiili1/~f~~; ::tct~::: ­
.·. Afterthe lengthy pi'ocess returhe:cln:~gaC: :, ( might hav'edahger6us c;ohsequences for_ :tiveresuitsJnher~Jdfort€nure,thif6rrrie{,_: i the·nieaning: of tenure:•··rthink tosome. 



;jltiitilll'.iilillieri!ii~
:.'t)?:rhe:uriusuanhiri;. 'aboutthissettlemerit•;.c::,visitiii · rofessor-atllie.Uriiversit· ·ofiowa: .: .· 
~ii~~ij6~~~;~iii\l~~1~i~l~~~tl~W~~i
:.the umvers1ty; ...... ·•· -.-, \,, ,,. ·< ,,. , ·.. :: ·-'< ,·_. •. ··.. -tionhl-Bndo\VmentfodheHumaruties and : 


il\fiiillllilifliiillll&tlfl 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
>­
0 ~. 
I­
(/) 
~ 
> UJ 0 
u 


A quarter century after going coed, the Notre Dame student body has yet to have a female president. 

....-iere's a certain club on cam­pus, maybe you've heard ofit. It's one of Notre Dame's old-· est and most well known. 
It is by far the most powerful club run by students, with the ability to make daily decisions that affect thousands. 
It spends your money and aims to represent you. But apparently, in order to lead it, you have to be male. 
16 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The club is none other than Notre Dame's own student body government and the excluding trend is that, in 26 years ofcoeducation, it has never been run by a woman. 
This.is. a glaring omission in light of the progress women have made in the push for equality between the sexes. The roles ofwomen have obviously changed since 1972, and this can be seen easily in the world of college education. Statistics from the1997 Fact Book on Higher Education show that the number ofwomen attending four-year colleges is estimated at 4.7 mil­lion, 54 percent of the entire student body. This number has increased by 17 percent since 1985. Notre Dame, for its part, has welcomed women onto campus by encouraging them to get involved, join campus clubs and play varsity sports. The perception is that Notre Dame women can do anything they want to. No doors are closed to them. The reality is a little different. One important door has not yet been opened in the school's history ofcoeducation -the position of student body president. · 
An obvious cause of this problem is that few women tend to run for the office. Since 1986, nine women have run for student body president, in con­,. trast to over 60 men. In a Scholastic essay in 1996, junior Gretchen Gusich wrote that she "chose not to run for president because she felt her campaign needed more planning. But, she hoped to have planted a seed in the mind of some underclass woman who 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 ,!. 
.,_ • _,.,.._ 1--. ... ·. ··:'-· ~­
. -. . -' ~ ,,.. 

_( 
[that] time next year, [ would] be on the brink of bringing Notre Dame into the era of equality of the sexes." 
It didn't work. Only one woman, senior Michelle Costello, has run in the past three elections. "Lots of women aren't running and losing," Costello says. "They're just not run­ning at all. They're not interested." But Notre Dame consistently ranks among. the top 25 U.S. universi­ties. The school attracts some of the most ambitious and successful students in the country, male and female. Why should a school of this description face such a low turnout, of felllales specifically, getting involved in any activity, running in any election? 
Associate Dean ofArts and Let­ter·s Ava Preacher has served as a faculty representative on the Cam­pus Life Council for the past three years, working closely with many members ofstudent government. She thinks that female students don.'t run because they don't 
/ 0think they can win. "Students pay attention to what other ;yq_ students say and women '<" tend to hear that they can't possibly win," Preacher says. "The women who are really good and suc­cessful naturally won't do things that are self­defeating." 
Senior RhondaMoor:e 
-·'·. ,._,, __ ,,. 
by Allison Fashek 
agrees. "I know a lot of females who really could have [been president],"shesays. "Butthey tried running for president in a _club or organization first and were rejected. They were dis­couraged early on." Perhaps that is why almost twice as many women have run for vice president in the past 12 years, meeting with far greater success. Eight women have held this po­sition overall, including newly elected junior Andrea Selak. Selak has been actively involved in class and student body government since her freshman year, but did not consider running for presi­dent because she was only a sophomore during the election. Costello ran as a soon-to-be senior, but many still encouraged her to run for the secondary position. "I have always been so involved in stud~nt govern­ment, in high school and at Notre Dame, that I didn't find run­ning intimidat­ing," Costello says. "But most people suggested 

BEHIND EVERY WOMAN. Presidential candidate Michelle Costello's running mate in the 1998 student body election was originally Adrian Cuellar. The other eight candidate pairs 
were all led by men.  ·  
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998  SCHOLASTIC  17  
MAGAZINE  

feminist political stance."
''Lots of women aren't running and 
When Costello ran in the 1998 spring election, she ex­
Losing. They're just not running at all. 
pected a tough race because she felt the candidates consisted 


They're not interested." 
of an evenly quali­fied group. But the voting returns did not 
-Michelle Costello 
reflect this. "I think 
a big part ofthe prob­I run for vice president. It would have been a good way to be lem is that women on the Notre Dame campus won't support other involved, but I wanted to change policy and set the agenda, and to woman tickets," Costello says. "They don't want to vote for a girl do that, you have to be at the head-of the ticket." just because she is a girl or a friend." 
Director ofStudent Activities Joe Cassidy is also puzzled by this Preacher agrees with this idea. "There is no culture of support trend of women running only for vice president. "Some of the among Notre Dame women and it's consistent with voting trends women vice presidents I've seen over the past couple of years across the country," she says. "It's part of the problem that women would have made great university administrative presidents," he says. "Itdoesn'treallymakesense 
''It's still an old boys' club, even 
why we haven't had a female stu­dent body president yet." Cassidy thinks that part of the 
though they let girls in." 
problem is due to student media calling attention to the few women who have chosen to run. "I think a 
-Rhonda Moore
lot of women haven't run in the past because they want people to focus on their merits, not their are more critical of their own sex than men." gender," Cassidy says. "Women don't want to have to take a Many students feel that the lack of a woman stu~ent body 
president is related to the school's traditionally conservative atmo­
'. :/> ''I sphere. "It's still an old boys' club, even though they let girls in," Moore says. Moore feels women only run for vice president because they know iftheywantto beinvolvedatahigher level of.student government, this is the only opportunity. She also thinks Notre Dame women often face dis­crimination in elections, in the form ·· of bad jokes about gender relations in male campaign ads and attention focused on their looks. "I knew of a past male candidate who felt his ticket didn't win because his female vice 
· presidential candidate wasn't pretty enough," Moore says. 
Senior Jason Lennon is another student who thinks thatNotreDame's gender relations are covered in cob­




)lillill!lfIfilif(ltlllllltlJ 
webs. "Notre Dame still has a lot ofl ·· ·stones' to 'nation,al leadership i:9les>')\yN,le.all o,f these figures [~Q'.(he stu~yl'.40 sh:oyt:; ; ',• ··. 
male-dominated opinions leftover f . a steady increase in'ihe nu11:1,bei; 9t\yomeii'i!'tak{~g_if,int9:ei~ctetfqffi~~s)Irro\iglfout:>, ~­from when it was an all-male school," he says. "I think the. problem is re­lated to the school's Catholic tradi­tion on a subconscious level because only males can serve as power fig­

i'~¥~f~,~~~~~~~~~~~~l~~~~w~~~~~~~,,~~~~~fr:\ 



ures in the Church." Lennon's point 

18 SCHOlASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
MAGAZINE 
is important because as long as women can't be priests in the Catholic Church, they can'tserve as president ofthe administration of Notre Dame. Candidates must be chosen from the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross order of priests. 
Other students feel that campus conservatism fosters a macho mentality among males, preventing girls from becoming campus leaders. "I don' tthink guys vote for [girls]," junior Mike Comaduram says. He feels that student body elections are often popularity contests, where the candidate who knows _the most people will win. In his opinion, males are more likely to go up to people in their dorms and convince other people to vote for them. Second year graduate student Yvonne Vanderburg agrees. "It seems like an incredibly social position based on popularity that mostly guys are attracted to," she says. "If you're president, you 're cool." 
Most students and faculty think that several changes need to take place within the university before a woman can make herself comfortable on the student body throne. Costello thinks that in order for history to stop repeating itself, more women have to get involved in the lower levels of student government, dorm and class elections. This will help them gain the experience and support ·necessary for winning a campus-wide election. 
In looking at the voting returns after the spring election, Costello says _she noticed that entire men's dorms tend to vote in blocks, with everyone in Keenan, for example, voting for the same candidate. Selak thinks this is a common trend. "It used to be that a lotofguys would be elected just because they lived in . Flanner or Grace because they could get the support of the whole dorm," she says. "With the break­down of these dorms, other people have more opportunities. Girls have never had a dorm that large to back them." In fact, Flanner and Grace, dorms that used tohouseover600men each, have also housed many· stu-. dent body presi­dents; a total ofsix in the past 18 
years. This could be due to the fact that their populations are almost 
twice the size of the largest women's dorm. The introduction of coed dorms is a step that many students feel would positively affect relationships between the sexes at Notre Dame. Lennon feels that getting rid of single-sex dorms and parietals will change attitudes faster than anything else. Preacher is an avid supporter of the move to coed dorms, but she points out a dangerous risk involved. "The thing about coed dorms that worries some people on campus is that if this trend continues, the dorm leadership positions might all go to male leaders," she says. "Women need those initial positions of presidency in the dorms to move up in student government. I'd like to think that coed dorms could change that, not cause more problems, but I'm not so sure." Whatever the case, Notre Dame is not likely to test the effects of coed dorms in the near future. For now, the future is in the hands of the women who choose to run. "The girl who wins will have to say exactly what she wants to do, 
and be very blunt about it," Comaduram says. After a l~ng semester of campaigning, Costello stresses the point that a candidate 
should not run just because she is female. "Don't dc:i it because you're a woman, because you won't win and you won't enjoy it," she says. "A male or fe­male should run because [he or she] 
is involved and has the tools to do thejob." · 
As for Selak, for now she will concentrate on her position as vice president, but she won't rule out the idea of running for a higher office in her senior year. 
Preacher is cautiously optimis­tic. "I don'tthink that it's going to happen in the near future, but I would love to see it. I can think of so many good female candidates," she says. "But it's really up to us. We need to encourage them." 0 
\ 
"T1 
;= 
m 
-a 
:c 
a 


NO PRESSURE. Student Body Vice President Andrea Selak is ~lready fielding questions about whether she will run for president in next year's election. She would be only the second woman to run in the past four years. 
19SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




>­
°' 
~ 
z 
w 
~ ~ 
u 

Gipper. l@nd.edu. Tipp the Gipp. Gipper. l@nd.edu. Tipp the 

The Gipp loves football season. It gi.ves him an opportunity to hear from all his friends who go to other schools­
when they call him to laugh after watching the Irish on TV. It's going to be another fun year, folks. 
Golf Cart Theft, Part MCMVII  
Notre Dame's football tradition may  
be slipping, but at least we still have  
our proud history ofstealing university  
golfcarts. The Gipp is starting to think  
people are stealing the things just to get  
mentioned in print. Well, guess what: it  ~  
works, at least until somebody does  [­ 
something funnier around here.  

Last weekend after the Keenan SYR, some intrepid (if not very original) Domer with a few Natty Lights under his belt took one of the carts for a spin. The innocent prank turned into public service ad fodder when our impaired friend drove his vehicle di­rectly into the side ofthe building, mangling a bike in the process. 
The thief does deserve originality points for his attempt to escape the lobby full of Keenan RAs who saw him stumble in just moments after the crash. "Hey," he ex­claimed. "Some guy just crashed a golf cart out there." 
Nice try, fella. 
Another Really Original Prank 
Here it comes, Gipp fans: another attempt by the Gipp to glorify someone who prob­
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
ably should have been expelled, or at least trapped in an underground cave. On the last day of senior week last year, some guys f~om North Quad sneaked into 
the condemned tunnels that run underneath' campus. Maybe it was an attempt to break into the secret library of porno mags Bill Kirk keeps in the basement of Hurley, but the exploration had to be aborted when some parents staying in a dorm heard noises coming from under the floor. They called the cops, who caught our heroes and dragged them back to the surface. 
Those crazy kids. Next thing you know they'll be trying to break into the fifth floor of the Dome, or maybe they'll even be stealing golf carts. 
Maybe We'll Go To The Absolut Bowl 
Speaking of Notre Dame traditions that can get you arrested, here's a funny story about alcoholism. 
A student who was unlucky enough to drive to East Lansing for the annual Michi­gan State massacre got thrown in jail for (surprise!) public drunkenness. 
The Gipp knows this probably doesn't sound so scandalous, given t11at so many Darners drink like there's a half-price sale on livers at K-Mart. The best part about this story, though, isthat this drunk student is a football manager. 
His pregame tailgating left him with a blood alcohol content of .25, which inci­dentally is about how many points the Irish scored in the first half. It also makes the Gipp wonder which other members of the team's staff were dangerously close to co­matose. Colletta, anyone? 
More Sad Results of Sexual Frustration 
Unless the Gipp starts getting some bet­ter tips from you people, he's going to print more stories like this one. You've been warned. 
It seems someone has been sneaking 
around.Badin in the wee hours ofthe mom­lng and folding people's laundry for them. The Gipp swearsheisn'tmak­ing this up. Ifhe was, it wouldn't be so lame. 
This depraved individual leaves the laundry neatly folded and in piles, so early that even the maids aren't up yet. 
She also leaves behind a note bear­ing a picture of an elf-like creature and the disturbing words "Abrownie was here." 
This is far too pathetic for even the Gipp to joke about. He recommends that the Brownie end her reign ofterror, and start drinking too much and stealing things like the rest of us. 
That's another Gipp column in the bag, loyal readers. Do the Gipp a favor and get into a lot of trouble in 
the next couple of weeks. 
Get drunk. Beat up a Purdue fan. Vandal­ize something. The Gipp doesn't want to encourage any illegal behavior, but do you all know the team with the World's Biggest Drum is going to be here on Saturday? How 

· does that make you feel? · 
Anyway, whatever you do, please re­member to tell your friend the Gipp about it. He could use a little entertainment. . 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 




.. .;.)\/ /:'.){'. ·. ..·.. ·.... ·: .•.·. (::\\·; .:,: )'\:;< .... ·..·Q~ittiiig Tiiii~t: .···-.): . . .. ·......... •·· .· ·.· ::.<-~ ...;I.:·... :-..·/ ' ·. ·. . .. < ·..... ,"lthnif)h6tillie'is;right,"commeitteti.B¢l(irn6ii:9riole_CalR1pken; b.a~eball) i(onmiu1,.. who topi tize riightofflastSunda)' .. ·.· agqinsl FiiiNel1/ York Yanke¢s, for th~Jirst)imfiri 16 years andeizded·°Ms confi~ittive games •sti'eak a/2;'632 gdnzes'.·..· 
:;-,.. :.·>.-·: .,-._:•.; :'-' ·'·:-\.' ·.-.··:.,.,·::,>:~:--:,··.. -:-~·-:·.. ---. .· ~:·.:>··->~..,.-·..··.· ·.=. •' ::\:)·_. ·'. ·: ···:-.«-· __:··.. .. : . _:, ..._=•'.:'_::-.i/'···_·> ::..\-: :: ·. .. .-, ,; \. ;-><:-:,_:·:,:-: :: ·.:. ··/ .-.<.-\~\:' ._: :.-;:,··· _.-.·_·.-. .....::,.;., .:/:·/_<~ ·.•-. •... ·'. ·.·.~,··::··, .. •. ,·.---' ,,'-: ·::, ·--.. :.;-...>::··:.~----_,./:_.':_,'\ . 
.·.•.:.. •·::.:.·:.,. ,-_ ..... __ , .•.-.:;.:.·.:-,·.· .... C<>:rey's.Q~Jf::,::J·;•{( .. >..............·...,., ... , .. <·.. ,>'.·.··, -····'.•··"''i,•.,.: 
•With;ft~ith~r:Jir1cOwireCnor.·Sosa taking:p~titJ..post~~ason.festiv.iti~~;';th¢" focus ofthe',atteritiqndn)a$'e1:,.ijn wj11 be:o.ffthe 'l'.t>:. 
This we.eke~·d":~otie ~ame will engag_e i~ a~~ffensive battle with·the_.B6ileimakers, winning 34-31..: .. : _ 
-... :·•f,.Z,:/ ·.-:. :... ·;;.;'',/.-. . , '.... ., . •. ·_ ,,,;_~ • -. . •, ­


SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Women's Soccer • 1998 Record 6-1 
Streaking: Junior All-American LaKeysia Beene has recorded five shutouts in the team's first seven games. Prime Time Performer: Sophomore Anne Makinen, who led the team in goals last season, scored two goals against Villanova last Sunday in the 5-0 win. Did You Know? Notre Dame is undefeated in Big East matches thus far, going 4-0. On the Horizon: The third-ranked Irish will participate in the Key Bank Classic this weekend at Alumni Field. They play Indiana at 
7:30 p.m. Friday and Wake Forest on Sunday at 1:00 p.m. 
Women's Volleyball • 1998 Record 3-5 
Streaking: The 24th-ranked Irish have lost five of their last six matches. Prime Time Performer: Team captain Lindsay Treadwell was named to the All-Tournament team at the Michigan State Invitational last weekend. Did You Know? The Irish have won 89 of 101 matches at home during Debbie Brown's tenure as head coach, which began in 1991. On the Horizon: On Friday, October 2, Notre Dame ]?egins Big East cqmpetition, hosting Seton Hall at 8:00 p.m. 

Men's Soccer• 1998 Record 4-1-1 
Streaking: The last three contests for Notre Dame have all gone to overtime, with the Irish going 1-1-1 during that span. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Shane Walton scored the game-winning goal in OT against Villanova to win 2-1. It was his sixth goal of the season. Did You Know? Under head coach Mike Berticelli, Notre Dame.has won three conference tournament championships. Pn the Horizon: The Irish play this Saturday at home against St. John's at 7:30 p.m. 

C/) 
""'C 
0 
iC 
-I 
C/) 
Sophomore Ryan Shay and Junior JoAnna Deeter finished first in the men's and women'.s race, respectively, last Weekend at the National Catholic Invitational. Deeter 
captured her third consecutive championship at the meet and Shay recorded his second, en route to helping Notre Dame win both the men's and women's overall meets. 

Football • 1998 Record 1-1 
Streaking: Purdue has lost its last 10 games at Notre Dame ·Stadium by an average of 26.6 points. Prime Time Performer: Against Michigan State, freshman quarterback Arnaz Battle led the Irish to a touchdown on his first drive ever, passing for 40 yards and rushing for 22. Did You Know? Purdue hasn't defeated Notre Dame in back-to-back years since 1984-85. On the Horizon: The 23rd-ranked Irish battle the Purdue Boilermakers this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


(/) 
I­
2 ~ 
22 SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
MAGAZINE 
Over the last five years the Irish boast a record of 116 wins, 10 losses and four ties 
of time to do it, so that's good. Yet in the next couple of weeks, we're going to learn something about this team." 
Apart from Notre Dame's battles with North Carolina, the Irish' s near-perfect play against the rest of the country in the '90s distinguishes the program from the peren­nial pack of contenders. Over the last five years the Irish boast a record of 116 wins, 10 losses and four ties. Their record at Alumni Field over the past five years is 55-1-1. The team has been to the NCAA Final Four each of the last four years, won the Big East Championship for the last three, won the National Championship in '95 and since the 1996 preseason Soccer America top 20 poll has been the only squad in the country ranked either first or second in every poll. Since 1994, Notre Dame has had more All­America Selections (17) than any other NCAA Division I women's soccer program. "There is definitely something special here. No doubt about it," Grubb says. "But pre­season rankings don't prove anything. Ev­ery year we feel we have to come out and prove ourselves all over again." 
With nine starters returning from last year's squad, the Irish are poised to once again prove themselves and battle for the NCAA championship. The team is solid at virtually every position. Up front, a potent attack includes Monica Gerardo, Jenny Streiffer, Meotis Erickson and Jenny Heft. Gerardo, one of three seniors on the team, already has four goals this season, needing only five more to become Notre Dame's all-· time leading goal scorer. She's looking to 
'fThe seniors want them to feel what we felt in '95. We want the whole team to be able to experience that." 

-Shannon Boxx 

Senior co-captain, Shannon Boxx returns to join Makinen at central midfielder. Boxx has played in all 78 games in her career, starting in 73 of them. A physical player who brings three years of experience to the field, Boxx's role has become even more 
· lead the Irish up front with some help from standouts Heft and Erickson, who shared the starting role last season. As a freshman last season, Erickson made an immediate impact. She finished 10th in the country in scoring, with 56 points, and goals, with 22. 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
Heft, a junior, scored six goals in the eight games she played against ranked teams and had five game-winning goals last season. She currently leads the team in goals this year with eight and points with 19. 
The nucleus of the midfield and the team is sophomore Anne Makinen, who is ca­pable of taking over any game. "Anne is the important this year. "I think I felt like I was a silent leader before. Now I'm a senior and a captain, which labels me in a way," Boxx says. "I know I have to step up on and offthe field and set a good example." Aside from Gerardo and Laura Vanderberg, she is the only member remaining from the national championship team of 1995. Boxx is deter­
"There is definitely something special here. No doubt about it:' 
best player in women's soccer," Petrucelli says. "She will lead the team this season." Last year, Makinen, along with Streiffer, led the Irish in scoring with 58 points. Soc­cer America's 1997 women's freshman player of the year and the only freshman midfielder named on NSCAA All-Ameri­can knows she is now the focal point of opposing defenses. "It's a bit more difficult to play when other teams mark you," Makinen says. "I just have to be better than last year. I must be one of the players who will step up and be a leader for this team." In addition to collegiate soccer, she is also the leaderofhernational team in Finland. "The national teams are faster and more physi­cal," she says. "Playing there gives me more confidence when I come back to school because I'm used to playing against those top level teams abroad." 

-Jen Grubb 

mined to help the team win another title. "The seniors want them to feel what we felt in '95. We want the whole team to be able to experience that," Boxx says. Gerardo agrees. "Freshman year was no cake walk," she says. We've been through it; we know what it takes to win it.· The girls will never know what it feels like until they have done it themselves." 
Sorely missed this season in the midfield will be Holly Manthei, a four-time All American and the NCAA assist record­holder in several categories. The loss of Manthei, coupled with Kara Brown's move to defender, has forced the Irish to replace both outside midfielders. A rich crop of forwards, however, will enable Petrucelli to move the versatile Streiffer between the midfield and forward positions. The junior, who has notched four goals and three assists so far in '98, is a tremendous dribbler who continues to create a substantial number of scoring opportunities for the Irish at what­ever position she takes on the field. 
For the majority of this season, however, the outside of the midfield will find senior Vanderberg and freshmen Lindsey Jones and Mia Sarkesian on the prowl. A key reserve midfielder over the last three years, Vanderberg has started in all six games this season, along with Jones. Sarkesian has seen significant playing time, coming off the bench in almost every contest so far. Rounding out the group are sophomores Kerri Bakker and Kristin Danielson, who, along with freshman Kelly Tulisiak, pro­vide depth to the Irish midfield. Bakker and 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Danielson both saw significant action as freshmen. 
Despite Notre Dame's consistent offense, the hallmark oflrish success in recent years has been its stingy defense. In 1995, for example, Notre Dame shut out every team in the tournament en route to the national lades have not put any added pressure on her performance. "Honestly, I just worry about what's going on in the net," Beene says. "It's great to have the awards, but I'd much rather have a National Championship." In 1997, playing every minute of the season, she allowed just nine goals in 25 games for 
"It's great to have the awards, but I'd much rather have a National 
"They like to play one on one and love to battle individually. We can do that, but it's not really our game." 
Gerardo h.as her own theory on how to dethrone the defending champs. "We didn't want it as bad as they did that day. End of story," she says. "Next time it will be a battle of hearts." Whatever the reason for the poor performance, it's likely that the intensity will be at a higher level when these two schools clash again. 
October 16 is another important date on the calendar, when Notre Dame looks to exact revenge on the Connecticut Huskies in Hartford. Last year's exit in the NCAA Semifinal at the hands ofUConn was a huge disappointment. 
"It drives us every day in practice and in the games," Grubb says. "I don't ever want to feel that way again." 
Boxx agrees. "That's the worst feeling we've ever had from a loss," she says. The Huskies will once again be Notre Dame's most formidable opponent in the Big East. 
Streiff er' s sentiments echo those of her teammates. "We could win 100 national championships and I'd still never forget about that." One hundred is unlikely, but snatching up one in Greensboro this De­cember seems quite possible. 


Championship.'' 
championship. Last year, the Fighting Irish shutout 18 teams. Junior All-America goal­keeper LaKeysia Beene had much to do with that amazing feat, but she only had to face an average of four shots per game. Notre Dame's dominant defense limited opponents to just 101 shots the entire year. They have followed suit early in '98 with five shutouts in their first seven contests. 
With the loss ofKate Sobrero, last season's Big East Defensive Player of the Year, the Irish are· 1ooking to Kara Brown to help stabilize the defensive backline. Brown, moved back from the midfield, will accom­pany All-American Grubb and sophomore Kelly Lindsey· -both returning starters from 1997 -in the backfield. Grubb will try to lead the defense and fill the void left by Sobrero's departure. "I know I have to take control of the game more," the co­captain says. "There's not that much added pressure this year, but I know I definitely have to be a leader." 
Sophomore Kelly Lindsey, a member of Soccer America's 1997 all-freshman team, also looks to make an impact by frustrating opponents with her speed and athletic abil­ity. Sophomore Liz Zanoni coritinues to serve as a valuable backup defender, and, if needed, Vanderberg can play in the back as well. 
Returning All-American Beene occupies the last line of defense for this year's Irish. The junior maintains that off-season acco­

·--LaKeysia Beene 
a 0.36 goals against average -the fourth best in the NCAA in the '90s. 

Depth in net is not a worry, as freshman Elizabeth Wagner, a member of the U.S. women's national under-20 team, joins Beene. Wagner comes to Notre Dame as a Parade and National Soccer Coaches' As­sociation ofAmerica high school All-Ameri­can. She was also one of Soccer America's top 25 high school seniors. 
The 1998 season has begun in typical fashion. The Irish have outscored their op­

"We have the talent to win the championship, but we have to make sure we're ... excited to play every game:' 
ponents 31-1 in theirsix victories so far. 

The one blemish on the Irish record is the loss at the hands of the rival Tar Heels, which came without Makinen in the lineup. With the Tar Heels collecting more Na­tional Championships than they. can keep track of2 the Irish must develop new strate­gies to dethrone the Carolina ladies. " 
We can beat them. We just have to play better as a team," explains Jenny Streiffer. 

-Chris Petrucelli 
"I'm trying to figure out how this team is going to come together," says Petrucelli. "We have the talent to win the champion­ship, but we have to make sure we're ready and excited to play every game." 
Maybe this will be the year. Maybe Connecticut won't be a problem this season. But one thing is for sure: the Irish are yearning to begin their dynasty in '98. D 

Carolina has. ~on every cha111pionship but one since the NCAA officially recognized 11Vo111eni soccer as a varsity sport. 
24 SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
MAGAZINE 

Songwriter and ND grad Anne Heaton brings her musical talents to Lula's Cafe 
BY JOE GALLAGHERIt's rare enough to find Notre Dame students who create original music, let alone alumni who have followed their musical aspirations beyond gradua­tion. Anne O'Meara Heaton, who gradu­ated in 1994, fits into this small group. She co-produced her first CD last February and recently began a musical tour of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. · the tour will take her to Lula's Cafe, her first performance at Notre Dame. Heaton's album, Spoke From the Heart, has received almost every positive descrip­tion that a compilation of music can attain. It's been called "a stream in spring thaw, crisp and overflowing" (The Chicago Reader), '.'alush, emotionally charged pack­age" (The Peekskill Herald), and "a mixed salad collection of life stories" (Rhythm and News Magazine). Her music has been co~pared to that of Tori Amos and Sarah MacLachlan. A more straightforward de­scription ofher CD might mention its ethe­real vocals, accomplished piano work, pro­voking lyrics or amazing background acous­tics. Despite her talent and lifelong love of music, she never really got into the music scene at Notre Dame. "[Notre Dame] is not a big haven for songwriters," Heaton says. Rather than feel­ing encouraged to develop her musical tal­ent, she often Jelt frustration at her inability to express her creativity. "I was kind of putting it down because·I was in a hyper­intellectual phase," shesays. "I'd go to a 10,000 Maniacs concert and be mad for no reason, • then I realized it was because I wanted to do it so badly. I've taken classi­cal piano lessons since the age of three, but I quit at Notre Dame because it got too regimented." Heaton did join the liturgical choir as a 
freshman and enjoyed listening to some campus bands, but never performed her own work. "As a PLS major I thought I'd want to do something intellectual, like a teacher's course," she says. ''I love philoso­phy and PLS, and I think I was hyper-rational." Having spent four years away from Notre Dame, Heaton wants to encour­age current creative students. "If you can't find what you 're looking for at Notre Dame, don't be afraid to pursue it outside of col­lege," she says. "When you start to do what you love, you get to know all these amazing people who are willing to help you." 
Despite the focus on her intellectual side in college, Heaton has always held a desire to uncover the "dark side" oflife. She draws a parallel between her work and Notre Dame. "For me, song writing is almost a metaphor for Notre Dame. It's something you want to love, but people don't acknowledge there's a dark side. For things to be healed you need to say the things that nobody talks about. My songs are more about saying things left unsaid." This desire to communicate her true feelings inspires her songs more than any single musical influence. 
Though she now loves creating her own songs, in 1994 she faced the perennial chal­lenge of finding a job after graduation. Be­fore embarking on a career in music, Heaton worked on welfare reform and health care in Washington, D.C. She later moved to Chi­cago to work at the Cabrini Green housing projects. Both experiences proved to be rewarding but not entirely fulfilling. "While in D.C. I realized that music was where my heart was so I better go back to it," she says. "In Chicago I was working with really cre­ative kids, but not doing what I really wanted. I was going at my dream in a roundabout way. Iwas working with kids in the arts but as a songwriter I'm so much more fulfilled." She eventually moved to New York when 
z 
~ ~ ~ 
z 
~ ~ 
Cl) 
w
Ir
6 
0 
~ 
:c 
[l. 


SEE YOU AT LULA'S. Heaton has studied music since the age of three, but didn't pursue it at Notre Dame. 
her husband got a job there and financed the 
production of her first CD through a series 
oftemporary jobs and performances in local 
cafes and clubs. 
Though the experience of independently 
financing a CD was daunting, it allowed 
Heaton to avoid the corporate pressure that 
some young musicians face. "I heard so 
many horror stories about the music busi­
ness but haven't experienced them first­
hand, since I haven't been courted by a 
major label," she says. Now that her first 
CD is out, she's just waiting to put out her 
next one. "As a songwriter, you kind ofhave 
all these melodies in your head you want to 
write down. The only thing that prevents me 
from releasing a new CD is money." 
Heaton now hopes to spread her fan base 
to Notre Dame. "We're starting to play on 
college campuses because they really share 
their music," she says. "I've been back to 
Notre Dame for football games, but never 
for a performance. I feel like it's where I 
come from, like people· will understand. I 
think it'll be pretty fun." As with any piece 
ofmusic, describing Heaton' s songs doesn't 
fully communicate their beauty. As Steve 
Martin said, "Talking about music is like 
dancing about architecture." Best to just get 
to Lula's Cafe at 8:30 p.m. tomorrow and 
hear her work for yourself. 0 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 



1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
w 
1­
z 
w 


No longer just a part offreshman social dance classes, swing music and all the moves that go with it have become popular among the _new generation 
BY JEN COLEMANUing on your couch this summer, flipping through the channels, you robably saw that GAP commercial and thought-whatgreat effects, fun music and look at all those stylish khakis! Maybe you kept channel surfing and lo and behold, Swingers was on your favorite movie chan­nel. Before you hit the part where Mikey has a breakdown on the phone, you decided to check out the latest videos on MTV. "Who's Brian Setzer?" you asked, just as you heard Big Bad Voodoo Daddy playing on a nearby radio. Sound familiar? Swing is suddenly everywhere. It's ines­capable. But does the idea of listening to a remake of grandma's favorite Louis Prima song "Jump, Jive An' Wail" sound a little scary? And does the idea of tossing a girl 
26 
over your head, or being tossed into the air yourself, sound intimidating? Most new­comers experience these worries, but the promise of fun usually outweighs any fear. Senior Erik Himan recently tested his skills at a local dance club. "I did it once at Heartland," he says. "I really had no clue what I was doing ... but it was fun." 
Co-presidentofthe Ballroom Dance Club Sal Hernandez believes that swing is popu-:­lar because it is upbeat, fun and everyone can have their own style. Greg Barlin, presi­dent ofthe Notre Dame Swing Club, agrees that swing's resurgence in popularity could be because people are dissatisfied with today's music and are looking for some­thing different. "Swing allows for a lot of creativity and personal expression,"hesays. "It is a basic pattern ofsteps and moves, but anyone can twist that pattern around to [his] taste or talent." 
Freshman Derek Kuprianov enjoyed learning swing at Notre Dame. "I'm from New Jersey, so I didn't get exposure to swing back home," he says. "I've been to a lot ofclubs, but [ swing] is more ofa change _from the usual club or party atmosphere. One of my friends told me about the swing dance club --yNe went,.and it was pretty cool." 
Other students learn swing from friends or in an informal setting, picking up their moves by imitating people on the dance floor. Freshman Dan Tonozzi learned swing when he was reading homework on South Quad and a group of people on the quad started practicing their swing moves. He feels that swing offers a welcome alterna­tive to the normal dance scene. "The whole thing is classy, not justjumping around," he 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 



says. Sophomore Beau Bonfanti also took , 
up swing after watching other students spin-l· · ~t;i::~~s~~!:rk;r;~~: i:;r:::~: 1~~: [STEPPl·NGtB~CK-\Al!Tpj·

..··.s\l\XlNG•··. people know how to do it right," he says. "I I i ·.. ·. ·• ·• .·.· ·.· .· ... •..· .· ...· • , . >...... > •··..·..·.·...·•. < ..··• ·.·.· ··...·..·..·•..· .. ·.·.. < , ·.. ·· ..·•.. · 
wenttooneoftheswingclubpractices,and ! Schoiastiqtakes'ir lookai.the.history of~wing·· ;~:n!~•-~, fun to be able to dance with a 1r. ·.· .. ·· ·.. · . .i:· > .. ·.• .. ·• •;·< <.>c i ····e !•>· / . .··.•... : 
Does this mean that there is a sort of decorum, formality or even (gasp) classi­ness entering our generation's social dance 
;:~~i/:n sf~~l~~~~;:~~sa ::n::;e~:~~~e~: 
;~:1:;;0~~~0 :~n!~~~~~:!:~1i:;~~:\:;: 
:::e0 ~i:::~~,,t~h~::~:· :Ii~~:~~::~~~~ dance at." 
Jan Effertz, a dancing supervisor at Dan 0 'Day's Dance Club in Mishawaka, says that swing has been around for a while, but 
it just hasn't been talked about until now. "[I think] older people like it because they grew up with it, and younger people like it because it's more fast and furious," she says. "It's got a more '90s sound than the swing ofthe, 50s and '60s."LikeBarlin, she 
feelsthatswingoffersvarietyonthedance floor. "It's to your advantage to know swing, whether you're at a nightclub, wedding re­ception, anywhere. You can swing to any fast tempo, so if you know swing and any 
slow dance you 're set." 
Though some see swing as a permanent fixture in dance clubs, others see its pres­ence in the '90s as a passing fad. In fact, swing's sudden popularity reminds many peo_£le of past dance trends like the macarena. Effertz points out that swing is not the first dance to be made popular by television or movies. "A couple of years ago mambo became popular when Dirty Dancing came out," she says. "A whole bunch of people came into the studio and said, 'We want to dance like that."' Nowadays, Dan O'Day's offers a"Swing Dance" night every W ednes­day, calling it "the latest dance sweeping the country." Senior Josh Gerloff, who plays guitar for a campus band named Jack-rabbit, also thinks swing may be a fad. "I think swing bands have talent," he says. "They have lots ofdifferent sounds, likethe brass, horns and drums, and it's fun to dance to. The only problem is that [ swing bands] run the risk of becoming a fad by becoming so popular so fast." Others see swing as too difficult, obnox­ious or space-consuming on a packed dance 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
' I ••• ' 
-'---------~----~----~ --~ 
I ·.~··< 6ukno\Vy6u've.heard.•ofit. In/: peopieaskt!dhi~whathewa~de>ing;h~ . r··...• < : ':fact;yo~'veprobablybeenbom~; respsnded,'Tmdoing·theLindy,":'····.· •. 1 •. · .. ·.···. ·.•.·· .· · -:barded:witkitin,ihe paS:i six : Jµe·personwho·inacle theLindYJ·fop· .. 
i ·rrionths:Jt'.sthe' swing craze. ]3ut ev~r.. famous was Franlc ''Musciehead'1 Man~: .. wonderwhatthosecrctZykids .areactu~uy·· nirig:.fle.adctecf tlie.·fifstairstepsJ9 the·.· ...... doing whell they .d~L that th.ing called .d~c~ in1935 arid tr~v-eled afo~nd. the ·swing? / · ··.•• ·.. ·. ·. ·· ....•.··.· • . ·.·.·. .. . . ..... · ... ·.. · cortntrfsho~mginen floW:t~,.flip tlleir: 
t·· . \Vell,.it aILstafted inNew Orl~ans and . Jernale:partners,makirigtheLiridyJfop_ a I th~t<>ui~iari~baybuswithragtime;Rag/' nationalsensati?n: . ·.·•· ...· .·...·.••.··.. ·>,.I'tim~ blei:ldedh6ms \vith,·a'niii2 o(Iri_sh These· airsteps hnpressed: crowds an • l, aridAfricaninflueI1Ct:!Sfor a more1,1pbeat oyei:Jhe U.S; and swing spre11clthrough::. . · f·.·.. •soup.d than traclitional fl~ssicalmll~k,. :: ·. out America up.der diffe~etit\1ames:Jit­: 1Soon••after ragtune·.appeared •·so·d1da··· t~rbug/,Sh~gj Push.and ·Jive.<La{er •it' .. I. :~ei-itsOr4~116es,1ikfth~foJ1c}iotitid)~e:;, ·~volvedjntotheWestCoastS\Vingand ;1·•••···•C::hll)'.l~sto11/~0~esayth~tsw111gact1.1ally/ ,Bqogie••\Vciogi~, ~ilf?nns· .. of•wha(We .. -~ Sfarted\VlththeTexasTomm.y, aCOIIlbi-, ,Jai9w as SY.,~llg)qdAy. . . l ,i1ati0119fkic)<s,ii6p(aridslides,inaddi> [I'herf is:a p_artkular.step caUed the.·· 
tion't?(~pcl. rfris,is::tiJ.etk:ey• part)O 11, ;L,lll<ly;IIop~hicpyou cai:ts~Hsee:insuch• .. .·•.· ... Preaka,way;section. _Here, the danc~.i~,:. m6vi¢sasHa(co/nzJ·cwhicJ1actuallyhad/, . 
.~·•·COUld d~'their owri thing (km.cl ofli.ke y6u(\ftahk Ivlarining·as a·c;ri;ultruit), Stomp-.•··· · 
1·,.·•••• >. :•··• . .-.. •·.,:.-,,,.. ,., .. . .-: .... ·, ·•·.. , ... ······O · ·.••··l· andyot1rlast ~YRdate); angJhe.-1:incty;)ng at'lhe:savoy-.andSwing .. Ricls. Bur t -Hop wa,s born. . . ' '. , ... ' .. 'Swinge,rs, ,as lllUCha.sjLbrougl:it swing
1. Rumor has it that wheri one man.at the _backirito the ~potlight; actually doesn't 
1··· · ·• ·.•·· · •· ·····:.. · .: • .. ··... • •.· ···, · •· •··. ·• • • .·.-·... ·..· · ··· •·:-: • • ·; . • • • -· ·. ••· •· ..· , • ·.·.. •·· , ·: •· . 
i ,s.avoyBaQi-6,oriiinHarlemMardthenews . ·haye a single pridy I-lop in it. Bet you [ :,ot~illd~ei;gji's ~ne~nmi,mg~( ov,er:the) ~ev~r)e#ed thatinP~xs Ed,<> ..• ii> .. 
i: Atlahtic;hestartedjumpirigforjoy,Wh_en/:0 /.' </.. /. •·• c ,' · .. · iJenjohnson .
[ . . • ~~-~~~~-~~~-~--~·~> ·L •·.: ·~···=·'~~~~-~~-~-~= 
DANCING CRAZE. Students have been 
floor. Whether they like it or not, they see turned away in large numbers as swing 
swing as a trend that will not be able to stand classes have become overpopulated on campus.
the test of time. 
Senior Amanda Bauer, although a lover of the swing craze, believes it will soon die. "It's fun and easy, but just like everything thing else it'll get old," she says. "You don't still see people doing the 'Cabbage Patch' or break dancing ... it's kind of the same thing. Something new will come along and replace swing." 
But chances are, for now, you won't be able to escape the swing invasion that has taken control of the entertainment world. Whether it's free swing lessons on the quad in front of Zahm, one· of the upcoming swing parties at Stepan over the next three months, a passing song over the airwaves of the campus radio station, or that crazy class­mate ofyours who keeps trying to convince you to leave your stool and jump on the 

Gl slippery dance floor, it seems like swing is 0 
:n here to stay. .0 m Well, at least for a little while. 0 ,­m CD 
,­
SCHOLASTIC 27 
MAGAZINE 

• • ~-~ ------::::::;:___.::..-=-..__~----------­


1­
z 
LU 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
LU 
1­
z 
LU 
. THE CENTURY CLUB 
W1y the f.mtu1y"s 100 Greatest Mm J\rm't 
he American Film Institute created 
T
its list of our natibn's 100 Greatest 
Movies knowing it would make head­
lines, pushing such trivial matte.rs as. 
African starvation and Asian financial 
" " 
crises to the back pages of the papers. 
Moreimportantly, they knew we'dtune 
in to the three-hour televised special, 
making advertisers toss dollar upon 
dollar to the AFI. 
Come on, people! Shouldn't 
fighting worldwide injustict': and 
understanding the global economy 
matter more than what's in local 
video store? . .· 
Actually, l too have com~ 
ments regarding the list .. You 
can read them, butifyou think• .. Cl,) 
" .IJ) 
I'mwrongyoucanhaveyour ,g 
" . " }.:. 
flesh engulfed in the fires of J! 
Hades for allI care. · · § 
First ofall, I must adniit j 
that AFI's list is coni~ [ posed of an impressive l · variety offilms, consid-/i ering that the search 8 
" 0 
was apparently limited . f2 to movies about j Anglo-Saxons. It GOD · 
comedies, while fairly accurate, could use some reordering. The Graduate, for ex­ample, is sometimes considered the ulti­mate film about the difficulties privileged white kids of the late 1960s had respecting their elders, discovering their place in the world and understanding The AFI ranked The Graduate 
#7, even th o ugh 
M*A*S*H, 
down at #56, is more crude, dis­respectful of au­thority, free­.· wheeling and fun­than The 
anyone think Ben~ j amin Braddock walking about in his father's scubasuitis as . iconoclastic or" comical as Hawkeye andTrapper 
John singing "Onward Christian Soldiers" to the idiotic Frank Bums? 
film criticism.Yet the AFI rewards him with one lowly ranked film. Hawks' slam-bang western Rio Bravo is less pretentious and more entertaining than 
_virtually all the serious westerns hon­ored, including The Searchers (#96), Dances With Wolves (#75) andHigh Noon (#33). His entry into the Humphrey Bogart detective genre, The Big Sleep, .towers over The Maltese Falcon (#23). . 
Four horror movies made the list, the most recent two. being Psycho (#16) and The Silence ofthe Lambs (#65). If the list was. truly intended to include. the greatest films, it's a shame no fright flicks created in.the 31 years between Hitchcock's .thriller and Demme's chill_er were selected: Space should have been set aside for George A. Romero's seminal_ Night ofthe Living Dead, fa­mous for its bloodletting, social com­mentary and low budget. A spot also 

··· could ha\Te been reserved for Oscar­nominated Carrie, which in one instant evokes terror . more effectively . than many.films on the Hst elicit over a full running time. .Some people I:ve encountered were .. 
features uplifting ?1ast::lt_7'Hcf:i. . Likewise, two <;>ther com­upset that th~ir favorite film received movies ( # 11: It's a !1st, and'/Jtece rank. 7'h e Or,· . edies on the list should haye no regards from the i~stitute. I am not 
·.. · · · .i2 the .ed th· 9tn I 
Wonde1ful Life) · · , ... .... sequel ,;'~don th: switched places, Bringing Up. above su~h sentimentMy all-time fa­
. alongside depress-.· . . · . n,shed at Baby barely even made thelist vorite movie, the.Robert Altman epic ing ones (#54: AU Quirt on the . . (#97) while Marilyn Monroe's Nashv,ille, found no room. at theinn. Western Front); simpletales (#49: Snow· · Some Like [t Hot, humorous but Astounding, considering that it consis­White and the Seven Dwarves) next to . no match for: the_ Hepbum-Grantmaster0 tently rated with The .Godfather as one . fucomprehensible ril~faphors ( #22: 2001: piece, reached #14. · of ~lie two greatest films ~f the '70s. ASpace Odyssey); and relentless cheer The general disrespect shown toward I could go on but _I have work to do, (#10: Singin' in the Rain) accompany­Baby's director Howard Hawks is espe~ deadlinesto meet and movies to watch. ing unmitigated drear (#32: The Godfa~ cially problematic. Thi_s dii:ector from And my OW~ m.ovie lists tomake. [] ther,Part JI). .. . . . . '.'Hollywood's Golden Age" made his mark . Checkouthttp://AFI.lOOmovies.;om/ . That being said, ifs timeto complain. injust about every movie genre, inspiring for th_e fa_ll lisrofAFI's Top American First of all, the AFI's selection. of 1960s French cinephiles to revolutionize 100 Mov·ies. · · 

28 SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 24, 1998
MAGAZINE 

. . •·· Rtiden,ts have,declaredwar 611 the.caIIJ.pus,of VilfaribVa univeishy. After gaining-•_control. oier.th_e•squirrelpopulatimi,:.u~iye~sityofficiaffhow.•feel····. 
•· ·• threateri_ed: !Jya.plagu:e.. of raccoons,' Fearfulthafthese,rasco.onsinight.be .··,._ •··' rabid, some valiant employees Arappefs~ven .of the crittefr_ outside·. ·of .·..·yma99va's Wels.h, Hall., an·upper;class d9rq1::Jheofficials' ar,e.· stillc~n:. •. > ceri1ed,•.,howeyer; that s9111estudents.·ihay ·,try'.tdJeep .tht!~e.•hydrophobic;.···_ · ··.fuzzyfiends as pets.· 0 ·•· .· •...·.•..·..•.•.·. < '< ··.•.·.·· •·· •·.· ..• •·.··> >·.·..·..·,·• .i i ·..·.• <···.·.·.· •/···-•· <Yid here ai OOdappfaud thosegoociSaniaritans \\'ho en1brace_their four--.• , ieg·ged,friends; regardleis ofht6ie~. These· students" set almosfas' fine an 
.< exaillpfo ~swe.do'hereat Notre Dame. poop~~ss kriows ..you'd ney(!rhear . a stu'de_nffrom Notre Dame complaining·aboutsomething as'siHy. as some . innocent, little rodents running. around oi.ir dorms;< ..· ­
.. '~-i ' ::. _.. , '. _'. ., . -. . . .. . . . .-, ·. , : : , ', :_ : ' -, ': '.:.: \.:.. '. •,: .. ',-: '.". . 



The·Coed ..S_uite 
Four students got a pleasant st1rpdse when they moved into Columbia University. Weli,'at least two of them thought it was pleasant. Due· to .. a computer glitch, a four-person; normally single-sex suite, was being shared by two guys and iwo girls.· Needless to say, tlle guyswere heartbroken. The university decided that the students shouldn'tbe forced to move merely because ofa computer problem, so the four will live together for 
. the year. . · ·• . . · . . •. •·•· .·· . , .· · ..._ Here at Notre Dame, we don't feel the need to instituteco~d · suitesin order tohelp c,ultivate a liberaleducatibn throughdorm life. After all, we'vealreadfgot dining halls whereboys and girls . actually share tables (sometimes), more-than-generous . visiting · hours which, foster great interaction. (and stalking) 
between genders, and the ever-popularDateWeek ( when people 
ofopposite sexesiare practically begged to spend quality time 
together). . . . . 

Beware the Bonnies 
Still reeling from the beating that the St. Bonaventure Bona Fanatic mascot took last year, the university has decided on a new representative for its teams: the wolf. 
After an incident in which the Bona Fanatic was attacked and battered by fellow Bonnies, many people figured it was time for a change. Among the front-runners in the mascot contest were the seraphim, the bear and the cardinal. An inside source says that for quite a while, the "Boring Bonnie" was also a leader in the race. However, the wolf prevailed, as student leaders and administration alike decided that their original mascot, St. Bonnie, was the main reason that their sports teams weren't getting much respect. 
Taking a cue from his fellow mascot, last year's Leprechaun is pleadfog·with Monk Malloy to change the mascot so that "future generations of mascots won't endure the heartache that I had to endure." He cites ridicule from toddlers and alums among the inhumane tortures that he has faced, and intends to appeal to Amnesty International should Malloy decline his request. OOC wishes him the best of luck. 

0 
z 
0 
-I 
I 

m 
;;;t:, 
() )> 
~ 
-0 
C 
(/) 
m 
(/) 
~\ 
Crashing for the Night 
Recently, Indiana University sophomore Ryan Osborne was found lying on the ground, unconscious and in his underwear, after a two-story plummet from his dorm room window. 
No, he didn 'tjump for some silly frat stunt or because a Math 101 exam got the best of him. He just rolled out of bed. Since his bed is right next to the window, all it took was a little restless sleeping to send him through the screen and down to the pavement. He is currently recovering from a broken leg, a few scrapes and a deflated ego, thanks to a whole bunch of tightie-whitie jokes. 
In response to this news, Patty O'Hara has announced a new rule for student housing: the maximum loft height allowed in dorm rooms has been decreased to two feet, three inches. 
by Mark Styczynski 

z 
0 
l­
o:::: 
0 
1­
(/) 
0 
z 
~ 
w 
w 
~ 
CAN'T CET THERE FROM HERE 
One student's traumatic journey through the new SDH 
BY JESSE KENTSouth Dining Hall: I don't get it. I knowlshouldconsidermyselflucky to be here, but I just don't get it. I'm not a chronic complainer by nature. I'mjust pointing out the obvious. And the obvious here is not the food. The food is good. Not great, but it sure beats the alternatives. It's better than North, which is always full of angry diners loathing those who migrate from South. And it's certainly better than the Great Styrofoam Buffet Fiasco of '97. I'm not complaining about the staff either. 
There are a lot of familiar faces out • there in Foodland and I've never had ', any unfortunate run-ins with the card 
little displays of fake food! They've got a meat-cutter man. They've even got oyster sauceforourstir-fry."Well,noteverything proved to be for the better. 
My outlook on South quickly changed when I ate there an hour later the next time. Since I was late getting back from class, it was nearly six before I arrived at the dining hall. Throngs of people were pushing and merging,justsearchingforsomesemblance of a line. Cast to the sea of anarchy and chaos,Ifoughtthetideandgrabbedontothe edge of the dining hall in front of Pan Americas. Holding on for dear life, I turned 
\ · 1

1 ~ 
I ~ 
crisscrossing like tracer fire in front of me, there was no hope. Apparently, everyone else got a map because I now found myself alone, lost and frightened. I justhad to get to those chicken fingers. I pushed offfrom my safety ledge and started to doggy-paddle my way across the food market. 
As I journeyed forward, I remained opti­mistic that I would reach those deep-fried nuggets, but some dreams are meant to be dashed. For in the middle of the "food market" is an area from which none has returned. The Valley of the Salad Bars. For once in the Valley, you are surrounded by 
islands and islands ofsalad bars. There 
are no reference points, just pillars 
and salad bars. 

swiper or the fruit gestapo. They're I tried to scream for help but it was good people. I don't quite understand futile. The salad bars had me sur­the whole function of the walkie­rounded. Two hours later, a janitor talkie headsets, but some things are found me on the dirty tile floor, curled meant to remain a mystery. up in the fetal position. I must have 
No, my problem lies in the archi­blacked out. tectural design of our new "food Aftet a year of remodeling, mil­market." Is it possible to design a lions ofdollars and thousands ofdead more complicated serving area? With construction workers, South Dining its bars, islands, buffets, steamer trays Hall is officially renovated. I know and dispensers, it. has more nooks the administration meant well with and crannies than an English muffin. the entire idea ofthe food market, but, I think I've found the Bermuda Tri­because of that one experience, I still angle. Every time I go to eat, I un­attend regular counseling sessions. 

wind a ball of string so I can find my way out. I have strong convictions that Amelia Earhart may have gone down in our food market, but I doubt we'll ever find her. 
My first trip to the new and improved Los Sur Dining Hall Complicados wasn't con­fusing at all. On the contrary, the first time was a truly magical experience. Of course, that'sbecauseitwasfiveo'clockandempty. After getting my card swiped, I walked into the tiled service area, waiting to be dazzled by its innovation and atmosphere; I started running around like a little school boy shout­ing to my roommate, "Look, Tyler! Neat 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
totakeasurveyofthescenebeforeme. With no lines to herd us through the dining hall like cattle to market, we were reduced ·to a scene from Lord ofthe Flies. At this point, I could have convinced any scholar that social darwinism not only exists, but thrives. Before my terror-filled eyes, "survival of the fittest" conquered everywhere from the drink dispensers to the Asian Rim. I didn't need this. I just wanted to be fed. 
Scrutinizing the situation, I decided that the chicken fingers in the Thrill of the Grill area would soothe my now upset stomach. But how would I get there? With the masses Through these small discussion groups I have come to several conclusions to help ease my problem. 
One: I know SDH will not make any changes onmy behalf. No, the large, churn­ing beast that is SDH stops for no one. 
Two: I need to eat as soon as they open the doors. If I miss that, I have to be satisfied with the brown-bag delights of Grab 'n Go. 
So if you feel as I do, please contact me .and attend our regular sessions held on Sundays entitled "Dealing with Dining Con­fusion." 
Ifnot here, get help somewhere. . 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 
•Softball Tourg<:!y:NotreDame vs.• 

. University ?fIJlinotf University o~ / Chicago and.DePaul~ _10:00 AM/12:00 PM, &4:00 PM, Ivy,1F1eld •/ , 
•Soccer: Notre Dime'women'vs: Wake 
-/ ,. • • I 
Forest, 1:00 rM, Alumni Field' •Spanish Mass(i:30 P¥;.K,eenan­Stanford Chapel·--__.f-. ,, · · 

·· •Sel~na, 7:00 PM, Carroll Auditorium, SMC. 
•• i_iJf;~µ)lx,;7jJ~8,by~i/cef~~J_A{ep{\_•_:\l [. . :·.. /. ;--:;<\-. ·r~~,,',z··._._..· 
.· 

: (q~teli8P~t~:30f,fof s~nts).·. ><· .•~en,eB_eto:ndni &T9ornas(Kni!i~,-~ui~,ar &; · •F9l~ D~p~e,,]:3~,P~,qujhg~ef.~Mf. .<' bass duo, 8:00 PM; Hesburghfab~ary / · . i ,~gg~cer,'T~fttt'.~fr7:JOf?:~O P\M,Sn1~r ;.Auditori~m ._·· ... /l/. ·'-;_--;· ./·_-.....
'.;~4tfi~,~l~~t~l'.T •;,, Q~b:~:.:.:;~_-''H
__o_t.e_t?a~~;}OO PM, 
' . 



j ;(;~;!~~~;~11y,,1 
'.'-;, 'l;JniversifyJ!ar}< Wesf. :_;
f27:f7336•·.: .. ·' _: ., ; ·....> , -.• 
cSilenFBrrch0\:'·•·.•/•·,.-'l-45:4·301}·00.•;9·3.0~11'50
:;µtB,.~i~ft~g)j11::t2:;{f&tf}6{~J5i{X0l1ffi3Jl:}.it~· 
,OreTrue-Tjg:•:•c··•>•it00,.,3.45..6.3Q;·9_20-•.._.,• .. • 

~ 


,-~--,:, . . · : f. sr1hll§9Jfil.er?-. ·->: :}-OJd--;\.-.. ,,<;, .-----.' 
-,.,,_Y1~-t(nl}'B;9sy~th~s1s: -The '· -..How SteU~ ~.o.t:Hen, .·:.. :-.7:30'•010:15 : :. ~-\, .:: · ,, : . 
xamp e;" Chaitan Kh' 1 -, ·::: ;G·" ·.. B•:·k·: .• ; ... ·;: .. ·:--;,-.. _-~,<-.' ·-r
·7 , 1 • osa, .· ,.,, roove. ac .... ,: .· ;·,·,,., -.-....•._ ...,, ...-·;, DrBa':J9{0 H;1J1, . . ) t' :.'. ':,ll~~y~~n::H29',_._::'~_i:, 2:2()' :4:2f;7:0Q'·9\o -f": i
....ay. <;tanmce-Darrow:~rimes '~ '. 1 'SnakeEy'ess. '. '<·.• }:··-· 2-15·:4-30,.t-10:9·:40 > ··
', ] ,l'a ses 1 . , ," .· .• ,_.,,_,,.., 1 -., , ,-.' _•.• _.. ,· •.• •.,,: 
00111) 7$0 M, Hesbdrgh ·.. i ::¥as~;ot~Z.9tf?... :~: <>::-Vis,:J15:;:Z}5J?i~?. ':/, , \ '--:..-/ / _....., .1. )V~Qn&fi!llti~ru~ed\ :~~:3Q}~;2\ .(;·:/-. -f.._,,'1-:· J ··-----'< . ,~/-,·.: · 1 .Ron' · /:,~'.!· ::-~, ·_.. ·,2:00 '3:30-:4:40 :_,Z:05":•7:30' 
L;. ~· •wcoNss.~A~;·tSc~j l.~i;, .. ··.· ~i11!1li~!~~¥i,i 


SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


...J 
~ 
z 
u.. 
I 
!­
ti 
I I 
Katie Keller is a senior and vice president ofthe LeCercle Franrais. She loves soccer and drinking tea. 
32 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
It Will Come 
by Katie Keller 

Ispent a month in France last May not only to research a history thesis, but to experience a summer in provincial France, to eat cheese, drink wine and live la bonne vie that I missed after my sophomore year in Angers. I was going to glory in the French lifestyle, the peace and relaxation that the typical, over-stressed Ameri­can never experiences. But the French had other things in mind. As soon as I arrived in Charles DeGaulle Airport it seemed that France was experiencing some kind of frenzied foreign invasion. They were hosting the World Cup Soccer tournament. I grumbled, knowing there would be no hotel rooms in Paris and even more tourists than usual clogging up the trains, not to mention countless boring soccer matches on TV. But I decided to feign interest and humor the French family I was stay­ing with. I asked some questions, . making sure they knew Americans thought soccer was, well, boring. "So who won it last year, Monsieur?" "They only play it every four years, like the Olympics." "Oh, so where did they play it last time?" "The United States." OK, so I was pretty ignorant about the whole thing. Against my will I sat through some of the opening matches. They bored me to death. Dur­ing phone calls home my dad sympathized with me but told me I would just have to suffer because I would never learn to like soccer. There was just not enough scoring in the game to hold my attention. Besides, there was no strategy. All they did was run up and down the field. Still grieving over this invasion ofmy beloved France, I visited Paris with some friends. Instead offinding Parisians sitting at cafes complaining about the government and the latest strike, they were talking about Brazil and Germany and how the French team was really lucky to be winning because, after all, they were not that good. The metro was packed with insane Scotsmen and Moroccans with huge flags tied to their backs and paint on their faces. I laughed at these people for coming from all over the world just to watch soccer games and hated them for ruining my vacation. 
Everywhere I went people would try to engage me in World Cup chat and I would respond, secure in the fact that as an American I knew better than to get involved in such a ridiculous spectacle, "Je ne suis pas tres foot" ­I don't like soccer. The French would then tell me that they knew soccer was not very popular in America right now. But it will come, they said. 
Then somehow I started to change my mind. The French team kept winning and the matches weren't so bad after all. I remember racing home to watch the French in a shootout with Italy and I knew I was hooked. I began denouncingthe Croatians as cheaters, putting down the Brazilians for being too arrogant, and calling the Brits poor losers. I mourned for Laurent Blanc when he got a red card in _the semi-final. I knew all the players on the French team and even got involved in discussions about the coaching. What was once an annoyance became my obsession. 
When the final match came I was visiting Cannes with friends. The entire city was anxious and excited for the game. After the unbelievable French victory we were caught up in a wave of people which poured into the streets, chanting and waving the tri-color flag. All over the country the French celebrated in a demonstration of patriotism that has not been seen since the liberation of Paris. Soccer gave me one of the most exciting nights of my life. 
Now that I'm back in the U.S. I try to explain to people that soccer really is an exciting game. Maybe the only reason it is not as popular as other pro sports is because it lacks breaks that can be filled with commercials. Maybe Americans just have too much arrogance or pride to be interested in a sport they don't dominate. Maybe we are just not interested in trying something new: Maybe in­stead of isolating ourselves we should open our minds and try the unfamiliar. 
As for me, I'm always trying to find soccer games on television. I want to explain to people that soccer may not be the most popular sport in the United States, but it will come. 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1998 

Maybe Americans iust have_ too much arrogance or pride to be interested in a sport they don't dominate. 
Fried Rice Fat Free Dishes 
El!!! .ill 
Vegetable Fried Rice 3.69 5.69 Vegetable Deluxe 6.66 Chicken Fried Rice 3,99 5.99 Stir-Fry Broccoli in Brown Sauce 6.66 Shrimp Fried Rice 4.99 6.99 Steamed Broccoli 6.66 Beef Fried Rice 3,99 5.99 Steamed Cauliflower 6.66 Ham Fried Rice 3.99 5.99 Steamed Cabbage 3.98 
•curry Fried Rice · 3.99 5.99 Combination Fried Rice 5.49 7.49 
House Specials
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable *Szechuan Fried Rice 5.49 7.49 Noodles with Sauce Pint Qt. 
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable Vegetable Sauteed Noodles 3.69 5.69 Chicken Sauteed Noodles 3.99 5.99 Beef Sauteed Noodles 4.69 6.69
Soup Shrimp Sauteed Noodles 4.69 6.69 *Hot and Sour Soup 1.49 Combination Sauteed Noodles Wanton Soup 2.49 Chicken-Shrimp-Veg 5.79 7.79 Egg Drop Soup 0.99 *Szechuan Sauteed Noodles 5.79 7.79 
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg 
Customer's Choices (served with steamed rice) Appetizers *Chicken in Hot Garlic Sauce 6.66 Egg Roll 0.99 *Kung Pao Chicken 6.66 Cream Cheese Wonton (6) 2.29 Cashew Chicken 6.66 Pot Stickers (6) 2.49 
271-0125
Almond Chicken 6.66 • Hot and Spicy • •curry Chicken 6.66 Chicken Chop Suey 6.66 Sweet & Sour Chicken 6.66 Chicken with Broccoli 6.99 Chicken with Peapods 7.99 Orange-Flavored Chicken 7.99 Empress Chicken 7.99 Sesame Chicken 7.99 *General Tso's Chicken 7.99 *Hunan Beef 6.99 Mongolian Beef 6.99 ·Pepper Steak 6.99 Fresh Mushroom Beef 6.99 Beef Chop Suey 6.99 Beef with Broccoli 7.99 Beef with Peapods 7.99 
($8 minimum order) 


Subscribe to: 


r-----------~---------~
I

Please put me on your subscription list for 1998-1999 
Only $35 a year -regular bi­I 
Name:

weekly issues plus the annual I I I
Football Review Address:_·_____________ 
I You'll find: I 
I

• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment I 


I coverage 
Please send this form, with payment, to: •• 
• 
controversial campus issues Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine I LaFortune Student Center I

• 
what's happening on weekends 


I Notre Dame, IN-46556 I • off-the-wall humor I I 

. --------­
~---------­

' -. 
. 
. . . 
. ' -. . 
Thurs.day._ 
September 24 Acoustic Cafe 9 pm in the Huddle 
. 

. . 

Friday 
September 25 
·X-Files Movie 
·8:00 pni & 10:30 pm 
' 
-~-­
. . 


Saturday 
· September 26 X-Files Movie · 

8:00 pm & 10:30 prh 
24-7 let's get it on 





