bo ok
^T'y
is not io


The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15CTS.ACOPY $3.00 THE YEAR
Sept. 29
1933
PARKER’S REVOLUTIONARY PEN
INMM I02WM0M INK
iimnuKiwi mu
IMHB* rr aunn ucm
SaclessTraasimreatBarrel I -¥«■■■ Filled	\
No More
Running Dry At a Critical Moment
IOLBS 102% MOKE IRK
Now at only 35—a new model of this revolutionary Parker Vacumatic Filler. Has marvelous transparent non-break-able barrel—shows quantity of ink at all times—ends nuisance of running dry at the critical moment.
Invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin—developed by Parker, and guaranteed mechanically perfect.
Contains no rubber sac, no piston pump or valves—nothing to fail and render it useless later. Hence holds 102% more ink, with no increase in size.
Go and see it. See also Parker's laminated Vacumatic Filler at 37.50, with allpurpose reversible point that writes both sides. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.
Quint, New Ink Discovery, Ends Pan-Clogging
Parker Qurnk—the new nondogging writing ink with the secret solvent—deans a pen as it writes! Get QuM from any dealer, or send two 3c stamps to cover packing and postage for large trial size bottle.
IM«IW KMMD
er
VACVMATIC man
LRKMNKW	r9"f
Mst, 37.50,* Pencil to Match, &M. Jit or Hata Traataanat faa, 1-way Poiat, K/ Paml, 3340.
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS
116 South Michigan St.—next door to “Bullies”
PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS
Student Supplies at “Downtown Prices”
■ Keuffel and Esser Drawing Instruments and Supplies
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre'Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns.......................Editor-in-Chief
Mitchell C. Tackley....................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors	News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD....................JOHN CONLEY EDWARD F. MANSFIELD______________________________News Editor
EDWARD O’BRIEN..................JAMES	T. FITZPATRICK	THOMAS PROCTOR.____________________Assistant News Editor
j	JOSEPH BUCCI-----------------------Assistant News Editor
Departmental Editors	JAMES BYRNE.____________________________FRANK KELLY
THOMAS J. STRITCH—..........................The Week RICHARD TOBIN-------------------------------ROBERT ERVIN
RICHARD PREZEBEL----------------------------Staff Artist MICHAEL WIEDL.______.-------------------JOHN WALKER
WILLIAM KENNEDY________________________PAUL DOYLE
Sports Staff	GEORGE LEYES----------------------------LOUIS HRUBY
JOHN CARBINE.......................HOWARD WALDRON	„	.
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING	JOHN F. STOECKLEY---------------------Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
SEPTEMBER 29, 1933
No. 2
OBITUARY OF THE BLASE BOYS
There is an evident new spirit abroad at Notre Dame this fall. Whence it came is not nearly so important as its future. The student body seems to have regained its attitude of interest in Notre Dame life as well as its air of agressiveness. If that change is a by-product of hard times, then the “ill wind” platitude still is accurate. If the new condition is a permanent one, better days have arrived for us.
Prior to last year it was not characteristic of this campus to harbor a pose of disinterest. Students here were alive to the activity of their own world and were not ashamed of that mental vitality.
A year ago, however, a noticeable change was wrought. It became the popular thing in certain undergraduate circles to be bored. School life and functions were tiring to our brothers who had been places, had seen and done things. They were thrill proof and invulnerable to enthusiasm. Being consistently superior, they scoffed at the uninitiated who persisted in finding enjoyment in doing normal things.
For the benefits of those misguided individuals as well as for the well-being of the student body, it is to be hoped that the day of the blase boys at Notre Dame is over.
NOTRE DAME AND THE NRA
With the Blue Eagle nesting in practically every available industrial and commercial eave in the country, politically minded campusites have been inquiring in considerable numbers the past week or two about the status of Notre Dame under the NRA and the effect that the act is to have on educational institutions in general.
From the executive offices of the NRA has come this ruling: “That schools, colleges, universities, churches, and charitable institutions supported by public subscription, not operated for profit, except in so far as they may be engaged in the operation of trade or industry, need not come under the provisions of the National Recovery Act.”
By way of further explanation, a letter from the
Sept. 29, 1933
American Council on Education, to whom the ruling was given, elaborates:
“This ruling means that non-profit making institutions under private control have the same status as have state and municipal institutions with regard to the NRA. They are exempt from the provisions of codes. . .”
The Council added a further note urging voluntary cooperation with the provisions of the act as far as possible in educational institutions. Notre Dame has done that. The shops operated and tradesmen employed by the University, while not technically under the NRA, are actually under the spirit of the act in the matter of wages, and, wherever possible, in the matter of working hours.
ETIQUETTE FOR GOLFERS
The continuation of favorable weather conditions has been bringing unusually large golfing crowds to the University course during the first weeks of school. The Scholastic, always a staunch supporter of golf at Notre Dame, enjoys the display of obvious enthusiasm by the student body.
In the interest of preserving that enthusiasm, immediate correction of a few undesirable conditions should be effected. The first of these is a matter of individual thoughtfulness. A slow-moving group of golfers can ruin a day’s play for those following who must sit on each tee while the slow ones take many minutes for each shot or spend long periods looking for lost balls. A voluntary offer of permission to play through when the course ahead is open is only a matter of ordinary golf etiquette and should be employed by the dilatory groups in favor of their faster moving brethren.
The second solution lies with those in charge of the starting house. On Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or at anytime when the crowded condition of the course makes it obviously necessary, players should be compelled to play in foursomes. It will put the game on the basis it was intended to have: a foursome is the recognized unit of golf play. It will eliminate such incidents, as occurred last week when one foursome could play only thirteen holes in three hours and forty minutes.
One
THE WEEK
Music Groups Prepare For Current Season
By Thomas J. Stritch
Roundup
There will be dissenters, but we are firm in the belief that the apocalypse of one Torn1 Allen, soldier, statesman, miner, lover, and all-round good, folksy boy (though a great kidder, mind) which shone forth in glory from the screen of Washington Hall Saturday evening was presented that the boys might have an ideal of perfect manhood to last throughout the year. You will go far before you find another so versatile, so truehearted as bonny Tom Allen; and it is fitting, we think, that you carry his image with you in your hearts for the coming year. It will make a convenient starting point from which to measure things. Thus the lawyers can declaim “Tom Allen, my beau ideal of a man . . . ”; and harassed professors will be able to quiet recalcitrant classes with a reproving “Tom Allen wouldn’t have done that, boys.” And if the boys have kept the image of Tom Allen undefiled in their hearts they will immediately subside. Of course, even Tom Allen failed lamentably in the common human debility of getting married; but we prefer to forget that. We want to remember Tom as he was in the days before the war—clean, generous, unspoiled.
But who is this chubby upstart, Tom Keene? Where are Richard Talmadge, William S. Hart, Buck Jones and all that gallant crew that we must watch the infantile caperings of this Keene? But take heart, men. Personally, we’re looking forward to something really fine in the near future, with enough episodes to last until Christmas.
Hello Men!	.
For a while it looked as though nobody was going to welcome the Freshmen until the S. A. C., its ill Chairman restored to us, came through with a convocation. For the first time since the mind of man runneth not to the contrary it seemed •as though the Freshmen were going to get by without being pressed to anybody’s bosom. They can slip in as though they belonged, and not be even mildly surprised at anything. The four bleak days which graced the opening of the academic year raised a great mourning; but it is better that
Two
the boys know straight off the hardships and the vicissitudes of an Indiana Indian summer. That’s something in their favor—they didn’t get a false impression.
Signs of Recovery
The symphony orchestra has bravely announced that they have solved their difficulties with the government and are now operating under the blue eagle; the handball courts have been repainted, without adding the squash lines; Fathers Brennan and Ryan, it is rumored, have been defeated in handball doubles competition; the Church clock went fifteen minutes slow Sunday afternoon; Kresge’s reports increased volume of sales in household goods department.
Halliburtons
The bicycling rage, which has recently swept the nation, has touched us here in these quiet halls. Already three bikes have blossomed in Sorin Hall, and eager devotees of the joys of the open road expect more deliveries this wee. This, we think, is an entirely forward-looking development; to see the quadrangle thronged with sedate cyclists will be a brave November sight, we trow.
But somebody should bestir themselves and work up a little traffic code for the cyclists. This thing of barging in wherever one pleases cannot be tolerated. We suggest that Dore road be considered an arterial highway, and that cyclists stop there on any and all occasions. Traffic on the Main Quadrangle will keep to the right at all times. The taxi-stand will be considered as the border, and cyclists will stop there to be searched for contraband. In time, of course, there will have to be a brake-inspection, which will be pursued with rigor. (Hints to cyclists: We understand that the pre-eminence of the New Departure brake has been superseded by the new Bendix brake. However, we find this hard to believe.) Those who desire information on road etiquette and the correct bicycling costume, write to Dept. One O, Cat, care of tnis paper.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta is busy rehearsing the various musical units of the Department of Music. Final tryouts and eliminations are
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta Leads University Music Groups.
being made in preparation for the fall season.
Glee Club tryouts will continue to Tuesday, October 3, it was announced this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of that organization. Tests will be held daily from 1:15 to 3:15, and all candidates must report to Prof. Casasanta within that time.
Of the 150 new men who reported for trials two weeks ago, the following have been permanently added to the personnel of the Glee Club: First tenori: Daniel J. Vogt; Second ten-ori: T. Hines, E. Phillips, J. Mc-Neill, E. Cohn, J. Torribio, R. O’Byrne, V. Gorman, R. Ducey; First Bassi: C. Sconfietti, J. French, W. M. McNich-ols, M. Finnochiaro, F. Reidy, J. Ross, L. Brugger, N. Schenkel, R. E. Byrne, W. Thurm; Second Bassi: E. Prapp, W. Hughes, G. A. Miller, J. Reeves, Terry Austin, and Wm. F. Lewis.
“Jugglers” Revamped
Last year’s University Theatre Orchestra will comprise in part the Jugglers of 1933-34, it was learned recently. Through graduation the Jugglers, campus dance band, lost five of its nine members, and is being totally reorganized into a 13-piece group under the personal supervision of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music. The four remaining members of the Jugglers and part of the Theatre orchestra will form the new group.
(Continued on Page 4)
The Scholastic
Calendar
CAMPUS CLUBS, OFFERING WIDE RANGE OF ACTIVITY, ORGANIZE
Friday, Sept. 29
Upperclass mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m., Sermon, “Perseverance” by Father Flynn; Scholastic meeting, editorial board and staff members, Ave Maria Building, 8:30 p. m.; Freshman pep meeting, Washington Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Saturday, Sept. 30
Closing of upperclass mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m.; Football, Varsity vs. Freshmen, Notre Dame Stadium, 2:00 a. m.; Movie, “The Man Who Dared.” Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, Oct. 1
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Saint Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Meeting of Science seniors, room 208 of Science Hall, 1:00 p. m.
Monday, Oct. 2
Distribution of Kansas game tickets to seniors, Stadium ticket office, 3:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m.; Glee Club tryouts, Washington Hall, 1:15 p. m. to 3:15 p. m.; Knights of Columbus meeting; American Institute of Electric Engineers, Room 22, Engineering Building, 8:00 p. m.; Band tryouts Chemistry Hall Field, 4:30 p. m.; Academy of Science meeting, room 104, Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Tuesday, Oct. 3
Distribution of Kansas game tickets to juniors, Stadium ticket office, 3:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m.; Glee Club tryouts, Washington Hall, 1:15 p. m. to 3:15 p. m.; Band tryouts, Chemistry Hall Field, 4:30 p. m.; Fres'h-man pep meeting, Washington Hall, 6:30 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra Practice, Washington Hall, 7:00 p. m.; Wrangler meeting, Law Building, 7:00 p. m.
Wednesday, Oct. 4
Distribution of Kansas game tickets to sophomores, Stadium ticket office, 3:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m.
Thursday, Oct. 5
Distribution of Kansas game tickets to freshmen, Stadium ticket office, 3:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m.
Shields Returns to School
George Shields, President of the S. A. C., returned to the campus last week after several weeks confinement due to an attack of pneumonia. He has recovered and is ready to resume activities once more.
Sept. 2 9, 1 933
Kansas Tickets —
Clyde Lewis, senior manager of football, and Edward Fisher, manager of stadium personnel, have announced the following schedule for the distribution of football tickets: Monday, seniors; Tuesday, juniors; Wednesday, sophomores; and Thursday, freshmen. The same procedure will be followed as last year, that is: all classes must present their athletic books at the stadium ticket office on the assigned days to receive their admittance tickets. All students must present their own athletic books.
Lewis has made a few minor changes this year. The ticket office will remain open until 5:00 for the benefit of the engineering students. At the time of the game, all students will enter the stadium through the Main gate, number 14. Bulletins will be posted on the campus announcing this schedule.
Football Shorts At Campus
Movie Tomorrow Evening
Tomorrow night in addition to the feature picture “The Man Who Dared” there will be shown at the second show in Washington Hall, a film of all the touchdown plays of last year. The second show is given especially for freshmen. Every Saturday night at the second show there will be movie shorts of interest particularly ones about Rockne.
French Club To Meet
The French Club will hold its initial meeting of the year Monday night, October 2, in Carroll recreation room. President George M. Menard will call the meeting to order promptly at 7:45.
CONTENTS
Editorials .................... 1
“The Week" .................... 2
Campus Clubs Organize ......... 3
Calendar ...........-........   3
Ring Lardner Dies ...........   5
“News Of The Week" ............ 6
October “Alumnus” ............. 7
“Man About the Campus"......... 8
N. D. Grad in Washington....... 9
“Voice Of The Campus" ......... 9
Varsity Football ............. 10
Interhall Football ........... 10
Fall Golf Tournament ......... 11
“Introducing” ................ 12
“Splinters From The Press-box”.... 13
PURPOSES ARE OUTLINED
Notre Dame students are offered a wide choice of campus' societies for furtherance of knowledge, for entertainment, for friendships based upon common interests, or whatever their reasons for seeking membership in organizations of these types. Here we have a list of some of Notre name’s campus organizations, the requirements for membership, and the name of each 1933-34 presiding officer, if such officer has been chosen:
Student Activities Council—George Shields, president; composed of nineteen members—ten seniors, five juniors, three sophomores, one freshman. All class presidents automatically become members upon election to office; others elected by their classes. Men participating in athletic activity (major or minor sports) are not eligible under present University regulations. The organization provides contact between University authorities and the student body, and offers general supervision of undergraduate activity in general.	’	’
Science, Engineering, Etc.
Academy of Science—Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator; honorary scholastic society composed of students in the College of Science, of at least sophomore rating, with a minimum scholastic average of 85 per cent.	•
Chemists’ Club—publishers of the Catalyzer, official publication of the department of chemistry; composed of faculty members and majors in the College of Science, and students in chemical engineering.
Pharmacy Club—William Kenny, president; membership open to majors in pharmacy in the College of Science.
Engineers’ Club—all engineering students eligible, upon registration with officers and payment of dues.
American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Notre Dame branch—William Fromm, chairman; open to students in electrical engineering; part of national organization.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers—students in department of mechanical engineering eligible for membership; division of national group.
American Society of Steel Treaters —Robert Hughes, chairman; also affiliated with national body; membership available to students in metal-urgy.
(Continued on Page 15)
T h r e e
A.B. College Leads In Registration Figures
The College of Arts and Letters once again proved to be the most popular with incoming freshmen. Of the 646 freshmen, 211 showed their
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C. His College Leads.
preference for this course, 12 more than the number of students registered this fall in the Commerce School; Engineering, with 107, ranked third in the College enrollment, and the Science School was next with 95. The Physical Education department, a part of the A.B. school, drew 34 additional men.
An enrollment of 1,060 students has been recorded in the College of Arts and Letters this year, according to figures given out by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean. Of this number, 124 are enrolled from the Community, and 121 are in the department of Physical Education. The remaining 815 are distributed among the different classes as follows: 188 seniors, 223 juniors, 193 sophomores, and 211 freshmen.
Thirty-five Musicians Form
New Symphony Orchestra
Approximately 35 members of the Notre Dame symphony orchestra reported for the initial practice of the the year held this week in Washington hall. As in the past Professor Richard Seidel will direct the symphony, which will probably give its first concert early in December.
The officers for the year were announced as follows: President, Joseph J. Petritz; Vice-president, Edward Zimmers; Secretary, John Sharpe; Librarian, Donald Draper; Business Manager, Miguel Yriberry.
Campus A. I. E. E. To Open Year’s Activity Monday
On Monday night, October 2, the first meeting of the school year of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Room 22 of the Engineering Building. Introduction of faculty, officers, and new members, as well as the naming of committees, will occupy the greater part of the meeting. Refreshments and smokes will be on tap. All sophomore, junior, and senior electricals are strongly urged to attend. Dr. Caparo, head of the electrical engineering department, will speak.
A comprehensive program of lecturers for the regular bi-weekly meetings has been arranged, the list including prominent speakers from many large electrical companies. The officers of the organization this year are as follows: Wm. H. Fromm, Jr., chairman; Mitchell E. Saleh, vicechairman; John B. Land, secretary; Charles W. Mueller, treasurer.
MUSIC GROUPS
(Continued from Page 2)
Tryouts for positions in this new organization will be held until Tuesday, October. Rehearsals will be held every Monday and Wednesday evening at 6:30 in the music room of Washington hall. The new orchestra’s activities will include all theatre work on campus as well as playing for various dances.
Band tryouts will continue daily at 4:30 p. m. on Chemistry hall field until Tuesday, Oct. 3. A gradual elimination of the contestants is being made by Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, director, and the final list of 80 members will be posted within the next week or so.
Information concerning the band trips this fall will be revealed by the University next week.
N. D. Academy of Science Will Meet Next Monday
The Notre Dame Academy of Science will hold its first meeting of the year on Monday evening, Oct. 2, at 8 o’clock in room 104 of Science hall.
The principal business of the meeting will be the election of officers for the coming year.
Ushers Club to Meet
A meeting of the football Ushers Club in charge of Edward J. Fisher, manager of stadium personnel, will be held tomorrow at one o’clock in the gym. Jesse Harper, “Hunk” Anderson, and J. Arthur Haley will speak to the 200 gatemen who com-. prise the club.
Work Is Completed On Church Transepts
Upperclassmen this week noticed the removal of the scaffolding from the transepts of the Sacred Heart Church. The work of redecoration will continue in the apse.
Under the new decorative scheme, the nave of the church, once rather gioomy, now assumes a surprisingly bright appearance. The false marble of the walls has given way to a modified sandstone color. A striking improvement has been made in the appearance of the pillars. The dark marble stain, and the circle of lights which formerly surrounded them, served to make them appear squat. With the removal of these fixtures, and the addition of paint of a caen stone shade, these same pillars appear taller and more graceful in design.
The maze of scaffolding having been taken out from the transepts, visitors are able to get a better idea of the effects that will be presented when these prime improvements have been completed.
All Campus Clubs Must Use “Rec” Rooms for Meetings
The Prefect of Discipline has issued a new regulation this year for campus club meetings. Hereafter, all the campus clubs are to hold their meetings in the Carroll and Brownson “rec” rooms.
The clubs must first arrange the date of their meeting with Father Dolan so that there will be no conflicts. No meetings are to be held until after night prayers, and there are to be no meetings held at places other than the two “rec” rooms.
Football Dances Will Be Held During Fall Season
Four Notre Dame football dances will be held this' fall at the K. of C. ballroom in South Bend on the nights of home games, it was announced this week by George Shields, S. A. C. president.
The sophomore, junior, and senior classes, and the Student’s Activities .Council will sponsor the Kansas, Pittsburgh, Purdue, and Southern California dances respectively. Music will be furnished by the revamped Notre Dame Jugglers.
Little Flower Novena On
Reverend Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., is conducting the Novena to the Little Flower this week. Services are held in Sorin hall chapel every evening at five and six-thirty.
Four
The Scholastic
First Issue Of 1933 ‘Juggler’ Under Way
DEATH OF RING LARDNER COSTS NOTRE DAME STAUNCH SUPPORTER
The first issue of the Juggler is now well along in its formation. Something very unconventional in the way of covers is now complete and the layout and art work in the magazine follow up the strange scheme of the cover in ingenuity. Generous contributions have made for more variety in the copy, though the inexperience of the staff is an early handicap.
Gerald Doyle, who contributed the clever art work in last year’s Dome, has been working on the general layout of the new Juggler and those who have seen his work report a marked contrast to all former Juggler styles. Dick Prezebel and a promising group of under class artists have been helping Doyle considerably.
In the way of written material the Juggler has had a wealth of contributions, many of which have come from new but very able campus scribblers. Tom Stritch, Harry Burchell, Bob Cahill, Bill Kennedy, Clyde Craine, Larry Gross and John Sharpe are some of the old hands to brighten things.
Several special columns done by capable men will brighten the magazine. There’ll be a direct Chicago letter done by one of the former Jugglers. And a sports column will be handled flippantly yet accurately by one on the inside. An attractive personal column will add a real tang. Reprints from some of the best college comics in the country will also be featured. As yet no definite opinions of the new Juggler can be gathered. But one more week will see it worked into shape. From all reports, it will be somethting new and interesting to watch.
S. A. C, To Meet Sunday To Plan First Pep Meeting
George Shields, President of the S. A. C., has announced that the members of the council will meet this Sunday to lay plans for the first pep-meeting of the year, which will take place before the Kansas game.
Arrangements will also be made for a freshman smoker in the early part of October. At this smoker the S. A. C. will make the award of §25 to the sophomore in each college who attained the highest average last year.
Clark Trains Cheer Leaders
Jim Clark, Senior and Head Cheerleader for 1933-34, has been drilling the candidates for cheer leading in the various routines and yells. The squad of candidates has not been cut yet. Several novelties will be introduced this season, according to Clark.
Sept. 2 9, 19 3 3
Vacation----
“Doctor, I have been having an awful lot of trouble with my stomach,” said Leo Brias, senior in Electrical Engineering, to Dr. Powers at the infirmary a few days ago. Dr. Powers listened to the ailing student and subjected him to a thorough examination.
After the examination was completed, the University physician looked at Brias through the corner of his glasses and said, “Well, my boy, you have the symptoms of a serious liver disorder. I am afraid that I will have to ask you to go home for three weeks.”
Leo gulped. He was calculating on how long it would take for him to go home. He is a resident of Manila, Philippine Islands.
Miniature Egyptian Relics Displayed in Library
The University Library has just placed on exhibit in the card index room a collection of miniature Egyptian mummies, statues, vases, rings, and other rare trinkets from that country.
The collection was made by the famous English historian, Henry Thomas Buckle. Every piece is guaranteed to be genuine, for the collection was made before bogus Egyptian antiques were manufactured. Buckle kept no record of where he found the objects, and therefore the exact place of their discovery cannot be determined. Inasmuch as he traveled about Cairo an.i up the Nile as far as Thebes, it may be assumed that his collection was made in that region.
The articles are for the most part in perfect condition, and are for sale, but are interesting nevertheless.
Froehlich And Jaynes Move; Morrissey Now
Too late for inclusion in last week’s “Man About The Campus” was the latest change of domicile of Dave Froehlich and Bob Jaynes. Wednesday afternoon of this week they forsook St. Edward’s for more familiar ground of Morrissey sub. This is stop No. 8 in their odyssey.
Practically the only damage done on the campus by the heavy wind and rain storm of Tuesday afternoon was to the scaffolding around the Main Building dome. The planks were blown out of position but did not fall.
WAS ALWAYS HELPFUL
With the death last Monday of Ring Lardner, sports writer, columnist, writer of fiction, and humorist extraordinary, Notre Dame lost a friend of long standing and a neighbor of constant loyalty.
Lardner, a native of Niles, Michigan, and for some time a journalist in South Bend, knew Notre Dame directly. He was enthusiastic in his support of projects of the University, and unfailing in his willingness to be helpful.
Especially was this time during the dark ages of Notre Dame athletic endeavor. In those times very few doors were open to Notre Dame in the business of seeking athletic competition.
Made Valuable Contacts
Before one season Notre Dame had only one game scheduled and there was serious question of dropping intercollegiate sports here. Lardner, through his support of Notre Dame, worked hard to open the way for new connections and new opponents.
Later, in 1911, making its first bid for intersectional fame, Notre Dame brought St. Bonaventure’s college eleven here for a game. The University was growing to a place of importance in the world of college athletics. But notice was slow in coming from the metropolitan sports editors.
It was again Ring Lardner who helped. As conductor of “The Wake of the News” column in the Chicago Tribune, he urged the cause of Notre Dame at all times. He placed the Fighting Irish on a par with the then all-powerful western conference and made no secret of that judgment.
His frequent, unusual slogans and notices were familiar to all followers of the sports pages. Such bits as the following one were typical:
“I can kick I can rush I can pass I can block Ei-chen-laub Big Ten teams take notice!”
That particular offering was in recognition of the prowess of Ray Eichenlaub, outstanding Notre Dame fullback.
Lardner was the leader in a movement that gradually swung popular support and sports writers’ recogni-t;on to Notre Dame.
In 1914 a game was scheduled with the Carlisle Indians in Chicago. It was impossible to get a field on which to play until Charles Comiskey, pres-(Continued on Page 7)
Five
Wranglers Open Year With Brief Sessions
“Wranglers,” honorary forensic society, initiated an active year’s program with two business meetings, one on Thursday, Septembei- 21st,
Arthur A. Sandusky Wranglers' new president
the other on Tuesday, September 26th. The group is beginning the new school year witn sixteen members, four short of the quota allotted by the club constitution.
It was decided by the society that the time given for presentation of a topic or plan on any subject by one member and the discussion of that topic or plan by the members should be limited, and that furthermore, individual discussion should be purely optional. Meeting time was set for Tuesday evening each week at 7 o’clock. New membership and the annual interhall debating program were discussed briefly.
Father John F. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. is chaplain of the organization. Arthur Sandusky, senior, is the president.
Attend Funeral in Madison
Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., and Reverend Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., attended the funeral of Doctor Deno F. O’Connor’s mother in Madison, Wisconsin, last Tuesday morning. Doctor O’Connor, of Chicago, is one of the physicians attending Father O’Donnell.
Bookmen Notice
:	The Bookmen announce that they
:	are receiving applications for mem-
•	bership to fill a limited number of
i	vacancies. Application blanks may
be obtained from Edward Murphy, i	207 Sorin, or Gene Healy, 302
।	Corby.
!	Six
News of the Week
Ry George T^yes
Mayors of cities throughout the country were railing Secretary Ickes because public works money was not allotted to them more rapidly. The same type of persons would be demanding his ouster if he were to deal it out as fast as they desire. His efforts to eliminate all possible graft in the distribution, and his zealous caution in the selection of projects should be given more grateful consideration — even by urban demagogues.
This week’s government in Cuba, headed by San Martin, will not be lasting. When Cubans once more come back to normal, and demand a stable and efficient government, the change will come. Just how and when no one seem to know.
A hurricane of tremendous force struck mercilessly at the Mexican oil port, Tampico. Indications were that a total of 75 had been killed, and over 1,500 injured. Property damage was tremendous. ■
President Roosevelt has shown this week that he does not want to resort to inflation. He is, however, expected to peg the value of the dollar within a short time. A declaration of his policy in this regard is considered sufficient to start the flow of credit, which has dried up because of fears concerning the future value of the dollar. Loosening up the capital loan market would serve to revive the national recovery program.
The Austrian Nazi continue to vie with Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, tiny, (4 feet, 11 % inches tall) but capable master of Austrian affairs. Their latest quip, “Dollfuss is so worried that he walks all night under his bed.”
Roscoe Turner, in a Wasp powered plane, flew from Los Angeles to New York in 10 hours, 5% minutes, for a new record. . . . The League of Nations assembled at Geneva, Switzerland, with disarmament the major topic. . . . Additional loans for lowcost housing projects were issued last week. ... Of the $35,000,000 so far allotted, 33% has gone to the efficient Notre Dame graduate, Mayor Miller of Cleveland.
Notice
The Scholastic staff meeting will be held tonight in the editorial office immediately following the Mission exercise.
“Big Football Man” Is New Sylvester Novel
Big Football Man, a novel dedicated to Coaches H. W. Anderson and J. P. Nicholson, has just been published by Farrar & Rinehart of New York. Harry Sylvester, the author of this book, graduated from the School of Journalism at Notre Dame in 1930. In this volume, he has used some Notre Dame football traditions as a background for the plot.
Sylvester’s first story was published in the Columbia magazine before he graduated from the University. Since that time, he has written for the New York Herald-Tribune, The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, and The New York Evening Post. Three magazines, Cosmopolitan, Columbia and Midland, have also accepted his writings.
At present, Sylvester is working on another book, The Color of the Sky, a newspaper story.
Frosh Get N. D. “Spirit” In Pep Meet Series
The freshmen have turned out almost one hundred percent for the pep meetings which are being held to acquaint them with the Notre Dame songs, cheers, traditions, and spirit. These meetings are at 6:30 every Tuesday and Friday night in Washington hall until the first football game, October 7.
“The freshmen are getting the Notre Dame spirit quickly,” said Father Dolan, “and that is a good sign of a continuation of such spirit.”
Bill The Barber Changes Hours To Fit Grid Card
“Bill, the Barber,” announced this week that the Barber Shop, during the nine weeks of the football campaign, will be closed Saturday afternoons while the games are in progress. Those in need of his tonsorial art work will be accommodated after the game up until 8 p. m. “Loyalty to the team,” was the reason expressed by Bill for the change in schedule.	x
Prefect of Religion in Sorin Hall Office
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. now has his office as Prefect of Religion in room 141 Sorin hall. Father O’Hara is in the office every evening from 6:30 on. The office in Dillon hall will continue to be used as such by the Assistant Prefect of Religion.
The Scholastic
Patricians Plan Study Of Classical Subjects
The Patrician Club of the University met Wednesday evening, at 6:30 o’clock, in the Classics Room of the Law Building. This was the first meeting of the year. Richard J. Ballman, president of the club, announced plans of action for the coming year which were presented for the approval of the members. The Club will meet every second Wednesday evening at 7:45 o’clock.
“Emphasis will be placed upon the philosophical and literary features of both the ancient and modern classics, although the social and economic and political aspects will not be neglected. Such topics as the following will be considered: the literary technique and influence of Greek and Latin writers, Greek and Roman history, Roman law, modern literature and its classical background, and ancient and modem art,” said Ray Brett, secretary of the Club.
Sixty Staff Candidates
Attend First Dome Meeting
Sixty men attended the Dome meeting last Friday night in response to Editor Louis Hruby’s call for candidates to aid him in producing the Notre Dame annual. Hruby was well satisfied both with the number and apparent ability of the group which included several men with previous Dome experience. Also present were a large number of freshmen who were editors of their high school year books.
Plans for this year’s Dome are going forward at a rapid pace. Hruby was here during the summer with a photographer and took pictures’ of the campus. These are unique both in setting and in treatment. He is, at present, at work composing a staff of associate and departmental editors.
Definite announcement of the time and place of junior portrait sittings will be made in the next issue of the Scholastic. It is expected that the taking of these pictures will begin sometime in the middle of October.
Father Wenninger To Meet Science Seniors Sunday
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, will meet all seniors of the College of Science at 1:00 o’clock in the afternoon of Oct. 2, in room 208 of Science Hall.
The subject matter of the meeting will be the senior theses and the aptitude examination for pre-medical students.
K. of C. News
Ed. note: This column of official Knights of Columbus news is conducted by a member of the Notre Dame Council.
By Ray Martin
Plans have progressed speedily for the Columbus Day celebration. It seems that everything suggested at the last meeting will be used, excepting the dinner-dance. There will be a smoker in the chambers of South Bend Council, boxing bouts in charge of Brother McLaughlin, a two-act play written by Brother Frazier, who won honorable mention with it in a recent Massachusetts contest, and refreshments.
The exact date of the celebration will be announced at the next meeting. Only members and those candidates who have signed application blanks are invited. The open meeting will also be announced at some later date.
Perhaps many at the meeting Monday wondered at the almost unprecedented fact that refreshments were served at the first meeting of the year. You can thank the house committee for that very acceptable favor. Chairman Lannon and Brothers Stinger and Lovely are responsible.
The response to the announcement of the bowling tournament is very encouraging. Over thirty have signified to Brother Church their intention of entering, and his efforts to stimulate intrest in the pian ought to bring out many more.
Speaking of responses, the membership drive chairman happily offers the information that about thirty candidates have already signed, and he hopes to have a few more for the first initiation.
Remember the meeting Monday night.
RING LARDNER
(Continued from Page 5)
ident of the Chicago White Sox, offered his baseball park. The game was piayed there and Notre Dame won 48 to 6.
Following the game a testimonial banquet was tendered the players. Ring Lardner presided at that banquet at which Comiskey spoke and Ban Johnson, president of the American League, went into his favorite field of elocution to recite Barbara Frietchie in honor of the Fighting Irish team.
It is with sincere regret that Notre Dame marks the passing of Ring Lardner, who never forgot to be a loyal neighbor.
Spirit of NRA Shown In October ‘Alumnus’
By James A. Byrne, Jr.
In keeping with the national spirit of the NRA, James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, proudly announces an increase of eight pages in the
James E. Armstrong
In keeping with the NRA
alumni publication, The Alumnus, which makes its bow for the academic year 1933-34, Monday. “In spite of the economic stress that will follow at some later date, unless dues keep pace with activity and interest, the pages have been added because the men who wrote them are so willing to inconvenience themselves and to co-operate with the editor — for your benefit—that for them, as well as for you, omission or condensation would have been unfair,” explains Mr. Armstrong.
In this October number of The Alumnus, the editor briefly enumerates the many efforts of the administrators of the University to nurture the “Blue Eagle” on the campus. “No decrease in the faculty or the faculty salaries marks the new year. The faculty of the University has increased during the depression. Also worthy of note is the building program which the University has carried out during the years of the depression just past. Five million dollars has been spent during the depression years by the University for expansion purposes,” Secretary Armstrong points out.
“St. Thomas And The Torch Song,” a brilliant address delivered by Professor Daniel O’Grady, Ph.D., at the Fifteenth Annual Summer. School Commencement of the University, is printed in its entirety in the current issue of The Alumnus.
“ ‘Singing Irish’ Sensation of Sum-(Continued on Page 9)
Sept. 2 9, 1 933
Seven
Upperclass Mission Closes Tomorrow
By John W. Walker
The Student Mission for upperclassmen ends tomorrow morning in the Sacred Heart Church with Mass and the Papal Blessing. This evening there will be benediction and a sermon on “Perseverance.” Though the attendance at the upperclass mission was not much greater than last week’s mission for all freshmen and two sophomore halls, the attendance at Communion was.
The freshman mission, which was conducted by Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., ended last Saturday morning, Sept. 23, with the Papal Blessing. The Keverend Charles Flynn, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission band, conducted the second mission giving ad the sermons in the evening and all the morning instructions. The sermons were given at 7:30 in the evening and were followed by Benediction. After 6:30 Mass in the morning, instructions were given. The sermons and instructions were on the same topics as those for the first mission.
The subjects of these sermons were: Sunday night, “Salvation”; Monday night, “Sin”; Tuesday night, “Death”; Wednesday night, “Judgment”; Thursday night, “Passion of Our Lord”; Friday night, “Perseverance.” The morning instructions were: Monday, “Confession”; Tuesday, “Temptation” ;W j d n e s d a y , “Prayer”; Thursday, “Study”; and Friday, “Parents.”
Freshman Learns N. D.
Friendliness On First Day
!
5
r

Jack (and this is the real name of a real student) a freshman, had become a bit bewildered at registration time. He appeared in the lower corridor of the Administration Building and knew not whither to direct his steps. Mike (not a true name), a member of the senior class, asked him if he could be of any assistance. Jack gladly accepted the proffered help and was kindly directed through the process of registration by the upper classman. Then it was an invitation to lunch which Jack attended as Mike’s guest.
Jack was at a loss for words to express his gratitude. “Cut it, old man,” said the senior. “My name is Mike. I have a room in Sorin Hall. Any time you need help, call on me.”
Of course Jack has written home and told Dad and Mother all about it, and Dad and Mother are telling the neighbors about the spirit of Notre Dame.
Eight
In Clyde A. Lewis, the “A” is for Augustine, but it might better have been for Ambition. It fits him better.
Three years ago this fall, Lewis left South Bend, traveled more than 2,500 miles and landed in South Bend. It wasn’t a circle— the first South Bend is in Washington.
Nor has he travelled in any circles since that entrance to Notre Dame. He decided in freshman year that he wanted to be senior manager of football in 1933. He looked over the situation, selected the plan of attack and stuck to it. Now he is senior manager of football.
The keystone of his structure of managerial progress has been work. Not the blind sort that is principally fanning the air, but a calculated, steady drive toward tne one thing he was aiming at. He knew all the right steps, picked the winners every year, adjusted his plans to fit new contingencies, and moved himself into line for succession so securely that he couldn’t miss.
Of course he’s worked at other things too. Last year and again this fall he held the head waiter’s position in the faculty dining hall. More in a managerial line: he kept statistical charts of every game Notre Dame played last year. He has guided the interhall sports system for the better part of three years, either as manager of that branch or as assistant to to someone else.
Essentially Clyde Lewis is a serious sort. He has sympathy for, but no part in displays of campus humor. Most of the time he is working at something.
He should be judged a successful fellow for he achieved a goal through working hard. He is a competent manager in every phase from carrying headgears to keeping his information to himself.
Many Books Added To Library Supply
Many world-famous authors are included in the list of books recently received at the University Library. Foremost among these is John Galsworthy, with his Flowering Wilderness. The mystery writers are represented by such notables as Edgar Wallace, Edward Phillips Oppenheim, and Joseph S. Fletcher. Religion, Philosophy, and the Sciences are also the subjects of new publications. The list is as follows:
Fiction—Prison Doctor, by Louis Berg; Sinister Cargo, by Stanley Hart Page; The Album, by Mary Roberts Rinehart; Clerical Error, by Colwyn Edward Vulliamy; Friday’s Business, by Hon. Maurice Baring; Murder of the Lawyer’s Clerk, by Joseph Smith Fletcher; Crooks in the Sunshine, by Edward Phillips Oppenheim; The Mystery of the Frightened Lady, by Edgar Wallace; Flowering Wilderness, by John Galsworthy; A Watch in the Night, by Helen Constance White, and The Best Short Stories of 1932.
Religious Subjects
Religion—Authority and Reason in the Early Middle Ages, by Allan J. S. MacDonald; The Gospel in Action, by Paul Revere Martin; A Century of Faith, by Charles Lincoln White; What Will We Do With It? by Frank E. Wilson; Enquiries Into Religion and Culture, by Christopher H. Dawson; Christianity and Civilization, by James Martin Gillis, C.S.P.; The Religious and Educational Philosophy of the Y. W. C. A., by Grace H. Wilson; The Inner Life of the Catholic, by Alban Goodier, S.J.; Meditation Manual For Each Day of the Year; St. Joseph in the Life of Christianity and of the Church, by Moritz Meschler, S.J.; The Call of the Time, by Anna Maria Roos; Moral Principles and Practice; Theonas, by Jacques Mari-tain.
Miscellaneous—The Story of Scientific Psychology, by Adelbert Ford; The Church and Spiritualism, by Herbert Thurston, S.J.; The Negro in America, by Alain Le Roy Locke; New Spain and the Anglo-American West; The Internal Debts of the United States, by Evans Clark; Job Insurance* by John B. Ewing; Economy and Technique of Learning, by William F. Book; The Teacher and Secondary-School Administration, by William F. Book; The Teacher and Secondary-School Administration, by Weston W. Carpenter; Principles of Secondary Education, by Philip W. L. Cox.;Assembly and Auditorium Activ-(Continued on Page 15)
The Scholastic
Pat Malloy, 07, Now In Dept, of Justice
Mallov has
Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division, Pat
Malloy, LL.B., ’07, Oklahoma lawyer and oil man, was the first of the general staff assisting the Attorney General to be selected. In his new post Mr. criminal cases
generally, except those arising under the prohibition laws, and generally directs district attorneys with respect to the conduct of criminal cases.
Born in Iowa in 1885, Pat Malloy was made an orphan at the age of 14 by a cyclone that killed his father, mother, two brothers and a sister.
Mr. Malloy was educated in Salix, in his native state and received his legal training at Notre Dame University, graduating at the head of his law class in 1907. He was one of the three orators of that year’s commencement and was a member of the debating team that won over Oberlin College and Georgetown University.
Mr. Malloy has been a well known figure in the oil industry for nearly 20 years, having been identified as an executive with all branches of that business. He also has been active in the associational effort of the petroleum industry. He was for two terms president of the Western Petroleum Refiners’ Association, a member of the war service committee for refining and export, a charter member of the Mid Continent Oil & Gas Association, and the American Petroleum Institute. He was selected chairman of the Oklkahoma delegation to the national petroleum conference called by President Hoover at Colorado Springs in 1929. He is also a director of the Independent Petroleum Association of America. Ue served two years as County Attorney for Tulsa County, Oklahoma, and was conceded to have been one of the most fearless and effective prosecutors in the southwest. One of the most telling tributes to his ability was paid by the court setting aside the conviction of Laura Reuter for the death of her husband, in 1913, on the sole grounds that the young prosecutor’s closing arguments was so eloquent as to have carried the jury beyond justice.
His marriage to Mrs. Malloy, who was then Lenore Marie Harrington of Sioux City, Iowa, took place in 1910. They have three children, Jack 19 years old, now a student at Princeton university; Pat, 17 years old, attending Notre Dame university and Paul, 11 years old.
Voice of the Campus
All letters should be mailed to the editor of THE SCHOLASTIC, 119 Sorin Hall, and signed with full name of writer. Initials will be used in print if requested.
Bouquet
Editor of the New Scholastic:
This is just another complaint of an upper-classman who believes that the principal university publication should be more than the cramped form you published last week. The Scholastic in this thin body was a disappointment. A few over-loaded pages of reduced column, cut news and misproportioned advertisements is no more a Notre Dame weekly than the Livingston summer publication is the work of a university staff.
Why should the Scholastic be thinned to the point where you are forced to pound everythting down to an ugly make-up point. You mention economic conditions and on the same page you give the encouraging enrollment figures. Does the registration or non registration of 300 students mean the difference between having a magazine which we can send home and one we can throw behind the locker? Are they going to mimeograph the Juggler for the same reason?
I wish you could publish this short note but I realize you are suffering “space agony” now and so I can stop complaining and wish you luck with your New (and much reduced) Scholastic.
Sincerelv,
T. M.
The Other Side
Editor of The Scholastic:
Accept my thanks for your new approach to the “Man About Campus problem. It brought me immense pleasure to find no history of high school achievements, no record of heart-breaking activities in this year’s column.
Please continue to make the stories sketches of activities on this campus, not a biography starting with grade school vears.
J. S.
Eat and Run
Editor of The Scholastic:
To my mind one of the best new features at Notre Dame is the arrangement whereby we can leave breakfast when we are finished eating.
No longer must I, a coffee-and-roll eater, wait for my neighbors to go through grapefruit, com flakes, bacon, etc.
T. P.
Father Nieuwland
Awarded Medal
Presentation of the Morehead medal to the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., Sc.D., by its donor, the Honorable John M. Morehead, of New York and North Carolina, took place Wednesday night, Sept. 27, at the Goodman Theatre in Chicago. Professor Henry Froning, head of the Chemistry department of the University, Professor Thomas Vaughn and Mr. Richard Vogt, of the same department, represented Notre Dame at the ceremony, part of the thirtyfourth annual convention program of the International Acetylene Association.
For Outstanding Work
The 1932 medal was awarded to Father Nieuwland for his outstanding work in the field of calcium carbide production and utilization. He is the eleventh scientist to be so signally honored by the association, which chooses the recipient of the medal each year.
Father Nieuwland presented a report on “Basic Research Possibilities in Acetylene and Calcium Carbide” to the Thursday morning session of the Association in the Congress Hotel.
The Sept. 25th Time magazine in a report of the convention of the American Chemical Society in Chicago last week, quoted Dr. Wallace H. Carothers, research chemist for the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, as follows in regard to the company’s synthetic rubber, Duprene:
Aids du Pont
“Starting with vinylacetylene, a compound made available through the discoveries of Dr. J(ulius) A(rthur) Nieuwland of Notre Dame University, du Pont chemists have synthesized a large number of new compounds closely related to isoprene. At least two of them, chloroprene and bromoprene, are enormously superior to any other materials as starting points for the synthesis of rubber.”
“ALUMNUS”
(Continued from Page 7)
mer Stage,” a resume of the summer activities of the Glee Club, by Bob Cahill, 34; Jim Kearns, “Campus,” a page devoted to odd- bits of local news; Father O’Hara’s “Religious Page”; “Athletics,” an article in which Joseph Petritz makes known the fact that, in spite of all the ballyhoo surrounding the sophomore backfield, Notre Dame will have a senior team; and, “Alumni Clubs” are some of the outstanding features of the Fall number of The Alumnus.
Sept. 2 9, 19 3 3
Nine
ATHLETICS
VARSITY-FRESHMAN GAME TO BE PLAYED TOMORROW
Interhall Football
Opens October 8th
KICKOFF AT 2:00 P. M.
By Howard Waldron
“How does the team look?” Each year when school opens at Notre Dame that question becomes the campus topic of conversation. Varsity men are questioned by interested classmates and asked their opinion of the team’s progress. These answers, however, do not completely O. K. the curiosity of the football fans. They want to see for themselves; to watch the intricacies of the attack unfold as of old and to pass their own sage judgment thereon. Each football season, before the regular schedule starts, a game is played between the Freshmen and the Varsity. This contest enables the coaches to make a final decision on their material and offers the students a preview for speculation.
Admission Is Ten Cents
Tomorrow afternoon at two o’clock on the famous sod of the new Notre Dame stadium, the freshmen will receive their first taste of football against the Varsity. A nominal fee of ten cents will be charged at the gate for the benefit of the Monogram Club.
Freshmen football is the formative stage for the future varsity stars and a part in their development for their later battle with the world. If they can stand up against the hard knocks of the Varsity, they can take the blows they may receive later with a smile. Big freshmen and little freshmen, all-state stars and obscure high school players are a part of this freshmen team and all have the same chance. The varsity plays no favorites in the game, but goes out determined to win.
Wunsch Stops Opposition
Last June a big gap was left in the Notre Dame line by the graduation of regular guards, Norman Greeney and Jim Harris, and many began to worry over this loss. If last Saturday’s scrimmage is a criterion, this gap has been amply filled. Harry Wunsch, who shed much of his excess waistline, did a fine job at left guard. His blocking on passes was Grade A and his defensive tackling stopped
Ten
the opposition whenever they attempted a gain through guard. Rocco Schirrali, however, gave Coach Anderson due notice with his play that he aims at this first string berth too. At right guard, Joe Pivarnik spilled the opposition whenever his signal was called to lead the interference. Paul Schrenker, Pivarnik’s understudy, also played a fine offensive game.
Pilney Scores Three Times
The real stai* of the Saturday skirmish was fleet Andy Pilney, the black-thatched little left halfback who romped through the third team for three touchdowns. Pilney made gains every time he carried the ball and it didn’t matter to him whether his interference had opened a hole or not. If the hole was there, he darted through it like a jackrabbit, pivoting and twisting his way through the opposing secondary until he was brought down or scored. If there was no opening, he made his own split with his driving power.
Nick Lukats, first team left half, played a fine defensive game, but didn’t get much blocking support when he ran with the ball. Billy Shakespeare was the outstanding kicker of the day. His high arching punts were placed to the side-lines and coffin corners which prevented the opposing safety man from returning them for much yardage.	.
Mazziotti Plays Well
Quarterback, which was left open by the graduation of three regulars, seems to be in capable hands. Tony Mazziotti played well with the second team backfield, and Frank Gaul was a big aid to the first team’s attack. Another sophomore, Wally Fromhart, is still in the running for the signal-calling post. Fromhart is a savage blocker and a mighty tough defensive man.
Saturday afternoon will bring out the good and bad points of the varsity when they engage in their pre-seasonal scrimage with the freshmen. The marked improvement in the play of regulars and the flashy form displayed by the sophomore hopefuls will all be displayed in this contest. It should be a tough afternoon for the freshmen, but a very interesting one for the fans.
By Nick Connor
Can Alumni repeat? That is the question that all the interhall coaches are asking themselves at the present time. Last year the Alumni hall grid team went through the entire season undefeated. The junior hall defeated the sophomores from Morrissey in the final game in the stadium 20 to 7.
The formal opening of the interhall season will be Sunday, Oct. 8. One of the teams that was in the league last season, Off-Campus has dropped out. The league will be divided into two groups the same as last year and after the season has been completed the winners of each division will hold their annual game in the stadium to determine the school champion.
Jake Kline, head freshman coach and a member of the faculty, will act as the faculty advisor to all the teams and young coaches. Equipment was issued to all the players this week, but should some aspiring gridsters have failed to get uniforms, the athletic office in the Physical Education building will be open to supply their demands.
Coaches Are Picked
The teams that will comprise Group I this year will be the following: Freshman, Corby, Morrissey, Alumni, Howard and Carroll. Group 2 will be composed of Walsh, St. Edward’s, Badin, Lyons, Dillon, and Brownson.
The coaches for the various halls are as follows: (1. denotes the senior coach and 2. the junior coach.) Freshman, 1. Van Allen, 2. Shea; Corby, 1. Kennedy, 2. Carter; Morrissey, 1. Blaine, 2. Palkovic and Gioe; Alumni, 1. Morrissey, 2. Pillars; Howard, 1. Wietig, 2. Novak; Carroll, 1. O’Dea, 2. Pettingill.
Walsh, 1. O’Connor, 2. Cullen; St. Edward’s, 1. French, 2. O’Hara; Badin, 1. Dugan, 2. Gafney; Lyons, 1. Novak, 2. Maxwell; Dillon, 1. Kelleher, 2. Connors and Smith; Brownson, 1. O’Neill, 2. Cuhna.
The schedules for the season will soon be arranged and placed in the various halls. Some of the teams will play their games in the morning and some in the afternoon. The hours will be arranged the same as last year.
The Scholastic
Fall Golf Tournament To Commence Sunday
Win Day will defend his fall golf championship in the fourth annual medal play tournament which will get under way next Sunday, Oct. 1. Play will be concluded on Sunday, Oct. 8.
The tourney is to be of 72 holes, 36 being played this Sunday and the remaining 36 holes on the following Sunday. Play is scheduled to get under -way at 8:30 in the morning. Eighteen holes will be run off before noon and the last 18 will begin at 1:30. Father Holderith, C.S.C., faculty adviser, has requested those not entered in the meet to refrain from play until all the participants have teed off. Those wishing to play may start off on the last nine and finish up on the first nine holes. This request concerns afternoon play as well as for the morning.
No Entries After Friday
All participants will start out from the first tee in foursome. Each quartet will have their choice of partners, and will tee off within five minutes of the preceding foursome. In registering at the clubhouse each entrant should give his name, residence on the campus, and standing in school. The deadline for all entries is on Friday evening at five o’clock. Entries should be turned in at the club house.
This tournament has no reference to positions on the golf team next spring, but it will merely determine
the fall golf champ. There are no restrictions as to entrance in the tourney as it is open to all students of the university.
Many golfers of note here on the campus have already turned in their names. Among them are the defending champion Win Day, Vince Fehlig, captain-elect of the Notre Dame golf team, John Montedonico, last year’s captain, John Banks, co-medalist in the recent National Collegiate tourney, Bill Cole, Bill Veeneman, Stewart Green, Pat Maloy, Jack Cannon, Ray Martin, and Bob Alberts.
Former winners of the fall tournament are Larry Moller in 1930, Joseph Switzer in 1931, and Win Day in 1932.
Notre Dame Soccer Teams Lose Two Games Sunday
In the opening soccer games of the season held last Sunday at Notre Dame the Hibernians of Notre Dame lost to the Conquerors Club of South Bend, 1-0, and the La Raza club, also of Notre Dame, lost to Mishawaka, 4-0. Both games were exceptionally hard fought, all of the teams being equally handicapped by lack of practice.
Soccer, a comparatively new game at Notre Dame, gained considerable popularity on the campus last year. Games will be played every Sunday morning at 10 o’clock on the soccer field behind Freshman Hall. The student body is cordially invited to attend.
Cross Country Team Faces Hard Schedule
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
With two weeks of consistent drill behind it, the cross country squad is rapidly rounding into shape for its opening engagement, tentatively set for next Wednesday. At this time, if arrangements are concluded, Northwestern, Illinois, and Wisconsin will send their delegates here to face Notre Dame.
If the quadrangular affair goes up in smoke, the first opponent for Nick’s squad will be Carnegie Tech. The Irish will travel to Pittsburgh to run against Tech on October 21st, while the football elevens will be battling on the same soil at the same time. Coach Nicholson, reasserting the fact that this year’s crew will be composed of a number of good runners, figures to take Tech into camp unless the hills along the running course prove too much for the harriers who are accustomed to the plains of the midWest.
Pittsburgh will send its cross country team here to compete with the Irish runners on the same afternoon as the gridiron machines of the two schools swing into action in the stadium. The Panther invasion of the lair of the cross country squad on October 28th should provide the Blue and Gold with one of the anticipated victories.
The trip to East Lansing on November* 4th promises to be tragic (Continued on Pa^e 12)
One Eleven of the 1933 Fighting Irish
L. E. Vairo; L. T. Krause; L. G. Wunsch: C. Gorman: R. G. PivarnxkjR. T. Roach; R. E. Devore: Q. B. Mazziotti: R. H. Brancheau: L. H. . Lukats: F. B. Banas.
Sept. 2 9, 1933
Eleven
All Classes Partake In Fall Tennis Meet
Departing from the custom of former years, Frederick R. Sullivan, manager of minor sports, announced that the annual fall tennis tournament of the University will be open to all classes including freshmen. This tourney, which will start on Oct. 5, aims to bring out the tennis talent of the school in order that an approximation may be made concerning the relative strength of the team for the spring season.
The Athletic Association will offer three cups to the winners of the singles and the doubles play. As the University has no freshman tennis team and because the spring tournament is for eligible varsity players only, Manager Sullivan has opened the play to all students. Formerly, only the three higher classes could enter.
Play Begins Monday
The pairings for the matches, which will start on Monday, will be posted on the bulletin board in the front of the gymnasium. All matches must be played at the scheduled times or the players forfeit. If neither contestant appears, both will lose by default. The entries will close this afternoon at 6 o’clock. Those desiring to enter the competition may do so at the Manager’s Office or at Room 107, Sorin Hall, between the hours of 2:30 to 6:00 p. m.
Banks Shoots Seventy-two To Equal Course Record
For the second time in two years, John L. Banks, varsity golf star, unofficially tied the existing record on the William J. Burke University golf course last Sunday afternoon when he carded a par 72. Banks’ previous record-equalling round was made on October 16, last year.
Except for a bad break on the ninth hole where he put his drive close to a tree in the rough, Banks probably would have lowered the record by one stroke. A brilliant iron shot recovery brought him a par on the hole but a birdie would have given him a 71.
On the out nine Banks had five pars, birdies on the fifth and sixth holes, and was one over par on the first and fourth to reach the turn in par 37. Coming in he had seven pars, went one over on the 12th but birdied the 18th to total a 35.
Three other varsity members, John Montedonico, Vince Fehlig, and Bill Veeneman were playing in the foursome with Banks.
Twelve
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
In the fall of 1931, Notre Dame apparently had four great tackles lined up for the season. Joe Kurth, Al Culver, George Kozak, and Ed Krause were in excellent condition
Edward W. Krause
Hardly needs an introduction
and anxiously awaiting the chance to slash huge holes in opposing lines for Irish backs to slide through. Slated for the first team because of their greater experience were Kurth and Culver. Kozac and Krause were expected to play with the shock troops.
Culver, however, suffered a recurrence of an old knee injury in the Indiana game, the first contest of the season, and that injury brought Big Ed Krause into the picture. Krause went in when Culver was helped off the field and so impressed Coach Anderson with his brilliant performance that he played in every game of the. season.
“Moose” did his best to help the Irish win that famous “battle of mud” with Northwestern at Soldier Field in 1931 when he recovered a blocked Purple punt on the Wildcats’ nineteen-yard line. The Irish, however, just could not go to town that day.
At the end of the season, Krause was selected as tackle on the AllWestern team by a member of the All-American Board of Football.
Last year Moose got the call for the left tackle position in the opening game against Haskell and was never demoted from his varsity job. His brilliance was a bit overshadowed by his running mate, the unanimous All-American choice, Joe Kurth, but even with this dimming effect he showed up well enough to be selected on several All-American teams.
Such honors are, however, no nov
elty to Big Ed. He made Les Gage’s All-American basketball team on the basis of his 1932 performance with Notre Dame’s quintet. Yast year, despite the fact that he was the nucleus oi the strong Irish attack, Gage demoted' Krause to his second team.
Big Ed, not content with basketball and football as varsity sports, throws the javelin for Coach Nicholson’s track team and has played first base for the Irish baseball team.
Krause prepped at De La Salle in Chicago where Norm Barry’s coaching helped develop him into the great athlete that he is today. While at De La Salle, Moose played football, basketball, baseball, and track. But he more than played these sports — he was a star in each of them. Here are a few of the honors his play brought him: captain of football, All-Ulinois tackle for two years, guard for two years on the All-American interscholastic basketball team, first baseman on the All-Chicago baseball team.
Two sectional football championships and two national basketball titles were added to De La Salle’s record when Ed was playing for the Chicago school. While at De La Salle, Moose played against Nick Lukats, Don Elser, Kitty Gorman, Johnny Jordan, and Al McGuff, all of whom were later to become his teammates at Notre Dame.
CROSS COUNTRY
(Continued from Page 11)
from the standpoint of a Notre Dame victory. Michigan State should show its heels to the Irish jaunters for they have some of the outstanding runners in the country.
A question mark hangs over the outcome of the engagement with the Indiana Hoosiers who will travel from Bloomington to match strides with Nick’s charges on Armistice Day. This will be the last home appearance of the local crew which winds up the schedule two weeks later at Milwaukee with the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet.
The training routine for the past two weeks has consisted of a five-mile jaunt daily for all the candidates. Nick has been bringing them into top form and plans to test the squad tomorrow. The schedule.
Oct. 4—Quadrangular meet with Northwestern, Illinois, and Wisconsin, here. (Tentative)
Oct. 21—Carnegie Tech, at Pittsburgh.
Oct. 28—Pittsburgh, here.
Nov. 4—Michigan State, at East Lansing.
Nov. 11—Indiana, here.
Nov. 24—C e n t r a 1 Intercollegiate Conference at E. Lansing.
The Scholastic
‘Pantheon of War’ At Fair Draws Students
Few attractions at A Century of Progress in Chicago are of as much interest to the advanced student as the Pantheon de la Guerre, the famous world war panorama, which was brought from Paris by American patrons of art at great expense for exhibit at the international exposition. The appeal of this gigantic canvas to college men and women was noted in the survey of attendance at the Pantheon building made by World’s Fair officials.
The panorama is the work of 128 noted French artists who toiled in their Paris studios, often under shell fire, from the opening of hostilities in 1914 to the signing of the armistice in 1918, to complete the masterpiece. The supervising artists were Pierre Carrier-Belleuse and Auguste-Francois Gorguet, both of whom passed away a year* ago. All of the artists were members of the Beaux Arts and were selected because of their adeptness in various fields of art—landscaping, portraiture, etc.
Has 6;000 Figures
The Pantheon is 402 feet long and 50 feet high. It depicts the battlefields of France and Belgium with 6,000 life-size figures, in the foreground, of heroes, statesmen and leaders of the twenty-four nations who fought on the side of the allies. All of these figures are easily identifiable.
Shown among the leading personages who constitute the living symbols of the four-year struggle are President Wilson of the United States, King George and the Prince of Wales of England, King Albert and Cardinal Mercier of Belgium, King Emmanuel III, Joffre, Foch, Clemenceau, the Tiger of France; Petain, Haig, Kitchener, Balfour, Tardieu, Pershing and many others.
It is notable that in the American segment of the mammoth canvas, there are five figures who have occupied the presidential chair—Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson, Herbert Hoover, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. The latter was assistant secretary of the navy unaer President Wilson during the worm war, and Herbert Hoover was in charge of Belgium relief and acted as food administrator during that period.
The specially built box in which the painting was brought to America, with the picture encased, weighed 12% tons. The canvas contains 20,000 square feet of painted surface and has been pronounced one of the finest compositions ever made. It is heralded as “teaching the value of peace while describing the costs of war.”
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
OPENING DAYS
The opening game of the season with Kansas next Saturday will be the 45th season opener that Notre Dame has played. Every year since the introduction of football here in 1887 with the exceptions of ’90 and ’91, the Fighting Irish have played at least one football game.
Statistics of the 44 previous first games show that Notre Dame has won 38 of the tilts, lost four and tied two. Since 1902, when the Irish beat Michigan Agriculture 33 to 0, they have won 31 consecutitve openers.
In 1901 the SouthBendA. C. played a scoreless tie with the Irish and in 1897 the Rush Medical eleven accomplished the same feat.
Of the four defeats encountered in the series of openers, Michigan meted out two. In 1887, the first game played by Notre Dame resulted in an 8-0 triumph for Michigan. The next year, 1888, the Wolverines again toppled the Irish, this time 26 to 6.
The third of the defeats came in 1894 when Chicago marked up an 8 to 0 victory. In 1896 the fourth opening game defeat was administered by the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons, 4 to 0.
The game of 1912, in which St. Viator college offered the opposition, produced the highest scoring record of any Notre Dame opener with a final count of 116 to 7.
Notre Dame’s Football Brain Trust
Head Coach “Hunk" Anderson, ’22; Tom Conley, *31; “Ike” Voedisch, '28; Nordy Hoffman, ’32, and Marchy Schwartz, ’32.
Outstanding in modem day first games were the terrific. battles of 1928 and 1930 when two teams from the South almost broke the string of victories. In ’28 Loyola of New Orleans, then coached by Clark Shaugh-nessey, went down 12 to 6, and in 1930, Ray Morrison’s Southern Methodist Mustangs challenged the reigning National Champions before going under in the last minutes 20 to 14.
SCORECASTS
A year ago we guessed scores on 21 opening day games. Of those guesses we picked 17 winners, were upset three times, and one battle ended in a tie. Two of the winning gueses hit the scores exactly.
This year we are taking a chance on 20 games. We’ll be more than happy if the average is up to last fall’s first attempt.
Northwestern 19, Iowa 7.
Michigan State 20, Grinnell 0.
Army 33, Mercer 0.
Georgia Tech 27, Clemson 6.
Kansas 14, Creighton 0.
Dartmouth 40, Norwich 0.
Fordham 34, Albright 0.
Oregon 13, Gonzaga 0.
Louisiana State 7, Rice 0.
Marquette 20, Lawrence 0.
Indiana 20, Miami 0.
Navy 13, William and Mary 7.
Oregon State 34, Montana 0.
St. Mary’s 14, San Francisco 0.
Stanford 12, U. C. L. A. 6.
Southern Meth. 13, Texas Tech 7.
Tulane 19, Texas A. & M. 7.
Southern Calif. 20, Loyola 0.
Vanderbilt 13, Oklahoma 0.
Pittsburgh 19, Wash, and Jeff. 0.
Sept. 2 9, 19,33
Thirteen
Red Cross to Stage New ‘Roll Call’ Drive
Today, as never before, the nation needs the enlightenment and direction that the college-trained man and woman can give. Leadership is the legitimate heritage of education; the power of knowledge is incalculable. But knowledge, unillumined by idealism, may be only the means of filling the dreary vacuus of self with materialistic and trivial absorptions. Hope of solution of world-wide problems must come through spiritual awareness and ardor. And in the bright realms of youth these qualities are spontaneous and abundant.
Opportunities for expressing idealism abound in the service of our national disastei- relief organization. During the last year the willing hands of thousands of young men and women sped on the nation-ivide task, committed to the jxed Cross by Congress, of distributing among the families of 6,000,000 unemployed citizens such stores of food and clothing as have never before been appropriated for our own people. Flour milled from 85,000,000 bushels of wheat; garments to the number of 104,000,000 converted from the 844,000 bales of raw cotton,—both being the surplus of the Federal Farm Board,—made life supportable for some 25,000,000 individuals.
Graduates Assist
Throughout the depression graduates of former years, involuntarily idle, but undespoiled of their vocational enthusiasm, offered their service in leisure-time programs carried on by various relief committees to keep up the morale of the jobless. Among these were many who had qualified themselves by the Red Cross instruction in first aid and life-saving, to teach others these courses. Young women who had majored in home economics and domestic science devoted, themselves to volunteer work in Red Cross Chapters where budgetplanning, food selection and nutrition were subjects acutely needed in order to stretch relief funds to their utmost capacity. Graduates with social service equipment were particularly in demand as volunteers to ease the heavy burdens imposed upon Red Cross workers by the abnormal demands of the depression.
In the months that lie ahead responsibilities of varying kind and degree await the continuing ministrations of the Red Cross. Due to drastic changes in legislation affecting Federal benefits to veterans, it is inevitable that the organization which by the terms of its charter is charged with the duty of serving those who wear or have worn the uniform of Uncle Sam should find its tasks great
Fourteen
ly augmented. Disaster relief is the foremost obligation of the American Red Cross. Last year, it took the helm in 96 disasters ranging the breadth of the country.
The Volunteer Service of the Red Cross offers a wide scope of opportunities for helpfulness in its production, surgical dressings, canteen and motor corps divisions. Those who have served apprenticeship in any of these fields of usefulness find a ready place in time of major disasters when every resource in the stricken area is channeled through the Red Cross. For those who desire to qualify by special preparation for work rich in human appeal, there is Braille transcribing for the blind, hospital service, staff assistance, and duty as health aides.
With every contact made by those who labor under the red and white emblem of the Greatest Mother far more than material succor is made possible. Not only are the physical necessities of life supplied to those who have been broken by disaster, disease or despair, but values intangible beyond estimate in their revitalizing potency are contributed. Stamina of soul is strengthened, morale restored; the Good Samaritan offices of the Red Cross have rekindled the will to survive and the spiritual optimism that makes survival an accomplished fact.
Such is the service of the Red Cross, in which the youth of the college world are invited to participate, for in announcing its annual Roll Call to the colleges of the country, the American Red Cross is assured of a cooperation not limited to the contribution of funds for the continuance of its activities, but inclusive of a self-dedication as well.
Many Students Attracted To New Drinking Fountain
Noticeable in the improvements made during the summer in the Main Building is the installation of a drinking fountain on the ground floor, next to the office of the Director of Athletics.
Consistently after each hour, a long line of students await their turn at the fountain. However, for the convenience of those students who can not wait for their turn, the drinking fountains in Brownson and Carroll study halls offer oasis.
Students Attend Guild Play
Several students were in attendance at a performance of the South Bend Theater Guild held at the Blackbox in South Bend this week. The play presented was “The Fan,” an eighteenth century Italian play.
Rockwell Diagnoses Campus Radio Ills
By Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr.
Most Notre Dame men fail to take advantage of the full enjoyment offered them in the medium of then’ radios. Fully sixty-five per cent of the sets in use on the campus are improperly installed. A certain amount of care in erecting a good aerial will repay the listener with many hours of the finest entertainment.
There are many men on the campus who, with quite satisfactory results, are connecting the water pipe or steam pipe to the aerial post of the receiver. The reason this works is due to the fact that they are, for the most part unknowingly, using the electric light wires for an aerial. Because of the fact, however, that the set is not designed for this connection, condenser trouble frequently results. Many of the men who have done this in the old halls have asked us why it will not work in one of the new halls with the same set. The reason is that in the new halls, notably Alumni and Dillon, the electric light wires are led through metal shields, and thus the radio waves are never allowed to reach the light wires.
Materials Listed
The fundamental principle in proper installation is to have a good aerial and a good ground. The materials needed for this are:
1.	No. 1 solid enameled copper wire.
2.	A pair of strain insulators.
3.	No. 18 rubber insulated lead-in wire.
4.	A good ground clamp.
5.	A lightning arrester.
These materials may be had at a very reasonable figure. Each item has its part to play in furnishing satisfactory reception, and will be discussed in turn. It might be well at this point to consider the function of an aerial.
The transmitting station sends out a series of electrical impulses or waves which travel through space with the speed of light. If properly designed, our aerial, acting as a collector, picks up a small fraction of the transmitted wave which is led to the receiver. Here it is transformed from electrical energy into sound waves for our entertainment.
By correct aerial design, we mean: first, the system, including the leadin, should have proper length (from 40 to 60 feet); second, the aerial itself should be horizontal; third, it should be as far from the ground as possible; fourth, it should be insul-(Ccntinued on Page 20)
' The Scholastic
Many Books Added To Library Supply
(Continued from Page 8)
ities, by Harry C. McKown; High School Curriculum Reorganization; The Preparation and Work of Alabama High School Teachers, by Henry C. Pannell; Secondary Education in the United States, by Wm. A. Smith; Greek Art, by Arthur Fairbanks; Earth’s Generation Pass, by Wm. D. Foulke; Identity and Reality, by Emile Meyerson; Life’s Reality, ' by Carl Rosley; Manchoukus, Child of Conflict, by Karl Kiyoshi Kawakami; Stabilization of Money, by James G. Hodgson; Compulsory Arbitration of International Disputes, by Helen May Cory; John Marshall in Diplomacy and in Laiv, by Thomas S. Craigmyle; My Brother, by Bev. John F. McShane; Marie Antoinette, the Portrait of an Average Woman, by Stefan Zweig: Making a Watercolor, by George P. Ennis; Handbnch der Spritzausstechnik der Metalleg-ierungen Einschliesslich der Warm-pressgussverfahrens (Engineering), by Leopold Frommer; An Introduction to Human Problems, by Harold Benjamin; Statistical Procedure of Public Employment Offices, bv Mrs. Annabel (Murray) Stewart; The Society of Nations, by Felix Morley; Stimulation of Educational Undertakings, by Jacob W. Wrightstone; Literatura Espanols, bv Cesar Burja; Forestry, by Arthur N. Pack; Intelligence, by Paul L. Boynton; Prejudice and Impartiality, by Guv Cromwell Field: Cosmology, a Text for Colleges, by James A. McWilliams, • S. J.; History of the State of New
York; Readings in the History of Economic Thought, by Samuel H. Patterson; The Administration of Endowments, by Charles F. Drenst: A Bibliography of Mental Tests and Rating Scales, by Gertrude H. Hildreth ; Comparative Education, by Isaac Leon Kandell; Teacher Absence and Leave Regulations, by Wm. P. Kuhlmann; The Importance of Reading for Achieving in Grades four, five and six, by Mrs. D. M. Lee; The Geometry of Repeating Design and Geometry of Design for High Schools, by Amos D. Bradley; Iron and Steel, by Hugh P. Tiemann; Great Inventions, by Charles G. Abbott; Circulation Work in College and University Libraries, by Charles H. Erown; White Man and Black, by James M. Gillis, C.S.P.; Far Eastern International Relations, by Hosea Ballou Morse; The Mercurio Volante of Don Carlos de Siguenza y Gongora; The Indians of Manhattan Island and Vicinity, by Alanson Muck Skinner; A History of Tapestry From the Earliest Times Until the Present Day, by Wm. G. Thompson; The Drama of
Sept. 2 9, 193 3
the Medieval Church, by Karl Young; A Brief Sketch of the Life and Works of Agustin Gattinger, by Henry N. Oakes; The Holy Land Under Mandate, by Mrs. Fannie F. Andrews; The Odyssey of Cabenza de Vaca, by Morris Bishop; Neto York in the Confederation, by Thomas C. Cochran; China in Revolution, by Harley F. MacNair; The Great Crusade and After, 1914-1928, by Preston W. Slos-son; The Age of the Gods, by Christopher H. Dawson; Economic Rivalries in China, by Grover Clark; Unemployment Insurance in Wisconsin, by Roger S. Hoar; Federal Regulation of Banking, by James G. Hodgson; Interviews; The World Court, by Manley 0. Hudson; Ten Years of World Co-operation, by League of Nations, Secretariat; Scientific Disarmament, by Victor Lefebure; Education for Citizenship, by George A. Coe; Shakespeare Under Elizabeth, by George B. Harrison; The Work of the Little Theatres, by Clarence A. Perry; The Education of Shakespeare, by George A. Plimpton; All I Survey, by Gilbert K. Chesterton; Andrew Jackson, the Border Captain, by Marquis James; The Long Road Home, by John Moody; Upton Sinclair Presents William Fox, by Upton B. Sinclair; Radioactivity and Radioactive ..Substances, by James Chadwick; Backgrounds of Biology, by John Giesen; Qualitative Organic Analysis, by Oliver Kamm; The Geological History and Evolution of the Horse, by Elmer S. Riggs; Advanced Electrical Measurements, by Wm. R. Smythe; Vocational Education in Agriculture in Federally-aided Second-aary Schools, by G. A. Schmidt; An Analytical Bibliography of Modern Language Teaching, 1927-1932, by Algernon Coleman; Soccer for Junior and Senior High Schools, by John E. Caswell; Volley Ball, by Robert E. Laveaga; Measures to Alleviate Unemployment in Connecticut; Napoleon, by Jacques Bainville; Francis Thompson, by Agnes de la Goree; The Neiv Backyard of Science, by Sir James H. Jeans; A Survey of the Medical Facilities of the State of Vermont, by Allon Peebles; Famous First Facts, by James N. Kane; On the Power of God, by St. Thomas Aquinas; Fundamentals in Physical Education, by Ruth Bertha Glasgow; I Find My Vocation, by Harry D. Kitson; Crime, Law and Social Science, by Jerome Michael; The Educational Frontier, by Wm. H. Kilpatrick; The History of the Novel in England, by Robert M. Lovett; E. W. Scripps, by Negley D. Cochran; St. Jerome, by Paul Monceaux; Aristophanes, by Gilbert Murray; Doctors and Specialists, by Morris Fishbein; Industrial Engineering and Management, by Ralph M. Barnes; Dramatic Bibliographies, by Mrs. Blanch M. Baker.
CAMPUS CLUBS
(Continued from Page 3)
Architects’ Club—open to sophomore, junior and senior students in the department of architecture.
Commerce Forum — membership composed of students in the College of Commerce who have registered with officers.
Accountants-’ Club—open only to majors in accounting (juniors and seniors) and students in managerial accounting.
Foreign Commerce club—students majoring in foreign commerce may join.
Law Club—membership composed of students enrolled in the College of Law.
Wranglers — Arthur Sandusky, president; open only to students who have been engaged in forensic activities on the campus; members vote on candidates.
Patricians — Richard L. Ballman, president; membership open to students enrolled in classical courses, and a few who manifest interest in the classics and associated studies.
Press Club—majors in journalism eligible for membership.
Bookmen—limited group, meeting informally, for study of best in contemporary literature; membership by vote of club.
Knights of Columbus—Lawrence Sexton, Grand Knight; Catholic students eligible; names proposed by members, voted upon; largest university council in U. S.
Monogram Club—Tom Gorman, president; open to holders of major monograms.
La Raza Club—membership composed of students from Mexico, Latin American countries, Philippines; sponsors soccer team.
ATTENTION!
Free Examination
Is Your Hair Falling?
Bothered With Dandruff? Itching Scalp. Etc.?
Try Us For Satisfactory Results.
Let Us Restore Your Natural Growth Of Hair
RELIANCE HAIR GROWING SHOPPE 230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
Fifteen
French Club—George M. Menard, president; open to those students interested in French, and in the culture and literature of France; activities both social and cultural.
Irish Club — John J. O’Connor, president; membership open to students sincerely interested in Celtic history and traditions, culture and language.
Cracow Club—Arthur Korzeneski, president; open to students of Polish extraction interested in Poland’s history, language, traditions, culture.
Italian Club—Emilio J. Gervasio, president; new members approved by vote of club, and manifest interest in Italian history, literature, art, culture.
Partial Roster of Irish Squad Given by Positions
Following is the Notre Dame varsity squad according to positions:
Left ends: Vairo, Millner, Ream, Canale, Thernes.
Left tackles: Krause, Stilley, Sullivan, Esser, Katz.
Left guards: Wunsch, Schiralli, Leonard, Shamla, McMahon, Church.
Centers: Gorman, Solari, T. Dunn, E. Dunn, Pojman.
Right guards: Pivarnik, Schrenker, Weidner, Fulnecky, Martin, Smith.
Right tackles: Roach, Michuta, Becker, Kopczak, Cronin.
Right ends: Devore, Davis, Rasch-er, Peters, Allen, Scafati.
Quarterbacks: Mazziotti, Gaul, Bonar, Fromhart, Caldwell, Moriarty, Harper, McFadden, Alworth.
Left halfbacks: Lukats, Pilney, La-Borne, Young, Shakespeare.
Right halfbacks: Brancheau, Tobin, Layden, Costello, Beach.
Fullbacks: Banas, Elser, Carideo, Hagan, Hanley, Miller.
DUAL RANGE SUPERHETERODYNE
DAVIDSON SALES CO.
107 E. MONROE OPEN EVENINGS
See and hear this Radio JIM BAKER, 105 Sorin Hall
Only $23-95
COMPLETE WITH TUBES
Here is a Crosley 1934 new 5 tube radio that will make you sit up and take notice. It’s just about 5 years ahead of the times. It gets what you want the way you want it.
Sixteen
On Down The Line
By John D. Carbine
The NOTRE DAME - SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA game will be played on November 25 which is HUGH DEVORE’S BIRTHDAY ... For the first time in a decade, DARTMOUTH will have SECRET FOOTBALL PRACTICE this fall ... The first four DARTMOUTH TEAMS will be housed in the Davis Field House to avoid the DISTRACTIONS OF FRATERNITY LIFE . . . BABE RUTH will PITCH New York’s final game of the season against the RED SOX . . . GENE SARAZEN says it cost him 21,000 DOLLARS to win the BRITISH OPEN PURSE OF 100 POUNDS . . . INTERCOLLEGIATE POLO is played at TWENTY - TWO AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES ... A MOUSE RACING CRAZE is current in BALTIMORE.
DARK SECRET, one of the countries greatest HANDICAP HORSES has changed his color from BAY TO ROAN . . . HORSEMEN predict he will be SNOW-WHITE before he dies . . . ELLSWORTH VINES claims that the members of the United States DAVIS CUP TEAM were treated like BABIES in PARIS . . . HENRI COCHET, French tennis star, had a HARD TIME defeating BRUCE BARNES in his PROFESSIONAL DEBUT . . . ART FELSCH of Milwaukee is SITTING outside the BLEACHER entrance of the POLO GROUNDS for ELEVEN DAYS so be may have the distinction of being the FIRST IN LINE for the opening game . . . The word from the EAST is to WATCH PRINCETON AND FRITZ CRISLER . . . FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT, JR., son of the Presi- i dent, has REPORTED for FOOT- | BALL at HARVARD . . . ROOSE- J VELT STARRED at tackle for GRO- | TON SCHOOL last year . . . PAUL 3 HOST, last year’s IRISH FOOTBALL ] CAPTAIN, has joined the PUBLIC!- 1 TY STAFF of the CATHOLIC 1 YOUTH ORGANIZATION in CHICAGO.	5
NEBRASKA’S GRID TEAM will i wear SATIN PANTS this fall ...	■
The GUARD WHEEL FORMATION will be used by MICHIGAN ... In | this formation the GUARDS WHEEL 1 ABOUT, face their own backfield. ; and COME OUT of the line to LEAD THE INTERFERENCE ... A CHEY- ; ENNE SCHOOL has discarded FOOT- -BALL for RODEO SPORTS ... because there is LESS DANGER IN RODEO . . . 2,500 PEOPLE saw SING SING’S FOOTBALL TEAM \ win its opening game from the HOLY i NAME SOCIETY team of WIL- i LIAMS BRIDGE, New York . . . AL- ‘ ABAMA PITTS led the PRISION • ATTACK with FOUR TOUCHDOWNS . . . GOOSE GOSLIN, the | veteran Washington outfielder, HIT 1 THREE HOMERS for the SENA- I TORS against the GIANTS in 1924	1
. . . And HIT THREE MORE against ‘ the PIRATES in 1925.	i
LACROSSE and MINIATURE AU- ! TOMOBILE RACING a ' introduced in the CHICAGt STADIUM j this winter . . . The RACIN	~*RS 1
will carry but one man	x-	J
pected to average SIX . .1LES i PER HOUR . . . FORDHAM lost only j ONE REGULAR from LAST 1 YEAR’S TEAM . . . Seven YALE 1 FOOTBALL MEN were in the HOS- j PIT AL last week with STOMACH } TROUBLE . . . SIX EASTERN COL- ■; LEGES take part in the INTERCOL-LEG1ATE YACHTING RACES held every June ... A GOLF COURSE J in Victoria, British Columbia has a PERISCOPE to' aid players on a j. BLIND HOLE.	*
---------------- ii
“Hunk” Celebrates 35th Birthday September 23	■
Head football coach Heartley W. Anderson celebrated his 35th birthday last Saturday, Sept. 23. His present to the squad was a three-hour scrimmage. On Tuesday, at the noon football meeting, the squad presented Coach Anderson with a travelling bag. Tom Roach, varsity right tackle, made the presentation on behalf of the Irish.	-

. “Babe” Ruth is scheduled to play in two exhibition games in Honolulu	i
following the	World Series.	|
The Scholastic	§
-	V
^fie^lasses
ACQUAINTED
COME IN
e have just the right
pipe for you in our large selection.
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
. v
Come visit our consulting rooms and laboratory. Let us doctor your sick radio and test its ailing tubes. Further, our consultations are free and we are noted for the expert advice given without charge.
A complete line of TOBACCOS, CIGARS CANDIES, COOKIES BEVERAGES
CIGARETTES at Popular Prices FREE PAPER MATCHES!
Serving You Is Our ‘Pleasure
Notre Dame Candy Store
“Just East of Washington Hall”
An N. D. Blanket FREE!
ALL STEAK 10c HAMBURG
Sign ...............
For chance on N. D. Blanket with each 10c purchase.
510 N. Michigan Street
Stop in and fill out a ticket like the one below—
Visit— The All Steak Hamburg Hut
Owned' and operated by Notre Dame men.
510 N. Michigan St.
(Next to the Packard Agency)
And if you are one of the unfortunate few who have not yet invested in that boon of modern science—your own radio— come in and let us explain how inexpensive such ownership really is. We boast that we have just the set to fit your room and purse.
V
The Address Is
155 ALUMNI HALL
The name, again:
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
Sept. 2 9, 19 8 3
Seventeen
Notes on the Fair
Student interest in A Century of Progress, the Chicago World’s Fair has demonstrated by the thousands of college students who have entered the gates to see this remarkable portrayal of mankind’s achievements in the past hundred years.
This interest is based not on the amusement attractions the Fair offers, but on the fundamental theory that knowledge is power. They have come prepared to giean all the knowledge they can from the many interesting exhibits. True, they will mix theii- business with pleasure; the many amusement concessions on the Midway give them this outlet. But all in all, it is the more educational displays and exhibits that attract most students.
The huge Hall of Science is without a doubt, the center of student interest on the grounds. Here is the first and last place they visit, with many trips between times. With its exhibits of the basic sciences it has given them a groundwork of understanding of the achievements of science and how scientists work that they will forever keep. For exhibition purposes a classification of the basic sciences has been made into: geology, biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, and medicine. To see the exhibits in the Hall of Science would take over one week of thorough investigation, well worth the time spent.
Probably rating next to the Hall of Science in popularity with the students is “Wings of a Century,” an historical pageane of transportation. This is staged in an outdoor theater with Lake Michigan forming an impressive backgn und, and uses the largest collection of historic vehicles ever brought together and shown in action under their own power. Realism is the keynote of the pageant, which has won critics’ approval as a fine work of dramatic art. It tells the story of the progress of transportation from early America to the present age of modern vehicles on land and sea and in the air. Action takes place on a stage of three levels. On eeither side is a curved white rostrum for use of the narrator, who explains the action as it goes on. This memorable spectacle is done with convincing sincerity.
A building frequently visited by students is the Hall of Social Science, which unfolds the drama of man—his complex relations with other human beings and his struggle to fit himself to an ever-changing world. Through its exhibits social life is shown from its beginnings through many stages of development. Here are presented a model community and government; schools, their evolution and what they may become. The display of growth and development of the American school includes vocational and recreational education and training for citizenship and professions as well as for leisure. The changing methods of teaching, changing curriculum, and school administration are shown in their relationship to the general so-sial structure as well as the government organization. The development of the Women’s colleges and the growth of universities are also among the significant exhibits that tell a continuous story of the advance in higher education.
The General Exhibits Group is another student favorite. One exhibit, quite popular, has on display many valuable jewels and famous crowns. Here, too, is an exact reproduction of a Kimberley diamond mine, into which the visitor actually descends.
In the huge General Motors Building students watch the complete assembly of Chevrolet cars, from the first operation until the finished automobile is driven off under its own power.
One student of an eastern college, asked what his favorite pastime at the Fair was, promptly replied, “Eating at the many odd places on the grounds.”
Another major display in this group is the interesting steel exhibit, which has been made into a realistic performance of the methods of a modern steel mill. In the various pavilions one may view the processes of modern industries. Students see shirts being made on a battery of machines, silk stockings woven at lightning speed, tooth paste being mechanically packed into tubes, and many other operations which help supply our daily needs.
Various other attractions bid for student popularity such as the Travel and Transport Building and the Air Show. The Hall of States in the Federal Building, with its attractive state exhibits and the Eelectacal Building with its story of the power that has revolutionized the world and has so completely changed the aspect of civilization. These and many other attractions have drawn the student magnetically to Chicago’s international exposition, its second World’s Fair.
Luckies sign of fine tobacco
Everyone knows that a long, firm, white ash results from perfect burning of fine tobaccos. Notice the ash on Luckj’ Strike. See how even, how firm, how white. That long, white ash is the unmistakable sign of Luckj’ Strike’s fine tobacco quality, fully packed—and no loose ends.
AlWAYS th earnest tobaccos
Always thefaest a
RADIO ILLS
(Continued from Page 15)

COMPLETE YOUR EDUCATION)
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost I No waits, no confusion. Hurry! Before the Fair closes!
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111, or write Mr. R. E. Jamieson, General Passenger Agent, 140 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago.
LOW COST ROUND TRIP
SOUTH BEND
CHICAGO JO-GO
with 9 day return limit
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SOUTH^HORE
Phone: Office 4-5661	X-RAY
Residence 3-4041
ated well; and fifth, it should be perfectly tight in order that it will not sway. It is not infrequently that we find the cause of excessive fading to be due to a bad aerial connection or to a swaying of the wires.
Now let us examine each of the materials mentioned above. We called for solid enameled wire. For many years, it has been the custom to use stranded wire, which has been found to conduct radio currents to the greatest advantage. However, one of the strands of such wire often breaks. This will cause intermittent signals which are most aggravating. The great efficiency of modern receivers more than compensates for any loss that might arise from the use of solid wire, and the solid is far less apt to break. Moreover, corrosion causes very poor reception; and we recommend enameled wire because it will not corrode or blacken in the weather. It is to be remembered with this wire that the ends must be scraped carefully for proper connection. Of course, both ends should be insulatea with strain insulators, which are most important since they prevent a serious loss in signal strength and serve to support the wire. From the active part of the aerial, that is, inside the insulators^ comes the lead-in, which must be rubber covered as a protection to the wire.
Aerials should be at right angles to the building and away from power lines whenever possible. Keeping the lead-in and ground wire as short as possible is very important since these have a tendency to take in man-made static. Remember both aerial and ground are important. Neither should be neglected.
The lightning arrester is important for it protects the receiver against the unexpected emergency. This simple device is but a trivial expense, and yet its -neglect may cause a set to be ruined if only a slight surge of lightning should strike the aerial. -Lightning in spite of its comparative rarity, may cause real damage. Only two years ago it struck the tower of Sacred Heart. Church.
In tfce style spotlight— Stetson
NEW or old, your Stetson hat has style written all over it. It has the lines of proud ancestry and good breeding. Its rich color is permanent. And whatever you pay for it you can depend on its being fine value for your money.
Why not look at the new Fall Stetsons now? Ask par* ticularly to see the attractive color mixtures and Stetson’s Suede Finish, which is quite new and exclusive.
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building ■ South Bend . Opposite Oliver Hotel Indiana'
Taking all these factors into consideration should give us a very satisfactory aerial, system for use on the broadcast wave lengths. Short wave reception, of course, presents a totally different problem whih must be discussed later.
> Ed note: This article was prompted by many questions which have been directed to the writer who will be ■ glad to discuss other questions in a later issue. -
at tfce Better etwee
. Jehei B. Stetsea
' Caatpaay .
Twenty
There’ll be no old gags like this in the New Juggler
—Which comes direct to your lucky digs
—On that very eventful night—October Sixteenth
•OMI *3WQ 3MXCH