Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce qriasl semper vic turns; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 24, 1881.
Number 16.
Our Stafi.
W. B. McGorrtsk.	J. P. O’Neill.
G. E. Clarke.	R. E. Fleming.
W. H. Arnold	E. C. Orrick.
T. F. Clarke.	M. F. Healy.
The Types of God. *
EDWARD HYDE.
I worked in my harvest field, And cradled the yellow grain. '
I thought of the plenteous yield, And counted the fold of gain.
• ’ In my palms I rubbed an ear, The chaff from the wheat I blew, • There were thirty kernels clear, Which from one kernel grew.
I threw them down at my feet, And thought, as I saw them lie, Except a kernel of wheat Fall into the earth and die,
It abideth ever alone.
But this one fell and died,
And these thirty from one seed sown, Were raised and glorified.
Then I said if a kernel of wheat A thought so great enfolds, Oh! what is that thought complete Which all creation holds ?
In the acorn hides the tree That shall lift its giant form: In the dew-drop hides the sea, With the tumult of its storm.
Thus nature hides, in germ, Her glory, power, and grace, Oh ! where is that lowly term, Which hides God’s holy face ?
Then weary, I sat me down, In the shade of a maple tree, Where the bare field I had sown, Was a waving wheaten sea.
Like Seraph tongues, I heard
• The leaves their anthem pour, And the wheaten sea was stirred With the sound of a far-off shore.
There the scales fell from my eyes, . And the veil fell from my heart,
* This poem was published in “The • Ave Maria’ ” in I860, and has attracted wide attention by its beauty and freshness.	-
And I saw. with glad surprise, The harvest’s counterpart;
The Son would not dwell alone, Therefore He fell and died:
Himself a seed was sown, Then raised and glorified.
He is that lowly term Which hides God’s holy face,
The Eucharistic germ ' Of glory, power and grace.
The miracle is great Whenever our daily food, Of water and flour of wheat, Is changed to flesh and blood.
Faith finds no greater test When the offered bread and wine To flesh and blood of Christ
Are changed by power divine.
Thus, bore of His bone are they, And flesh of the flesh of Christ, Who eat, from day to day, The Holy Eucharist.
And as He rose, so they, After their crucial strife, Shall rise and soar away In the power of an endless life.
I took my scythe again, But he-itatiug trod, For it almost gave me pain To cleave the types of God.
I saw, not a field of grain, With its swaying, bearded mist, But a harvest white with men Made white by the Eucharist
I heard, not the wind’s low song In the leaves above my head, But the voice of an angel throng, And of countless risen dead.
Geometry.
Geometry is a study which, on account of the number and greatness of its cultivators, has ever been one of the most interesting branches of science. The ancients called it Geometria, meaning the science of land measuring; we call it Geometry, and understand thereby the science which treats of the properties of magnitude. These definitions differ widely in meaning, yet not more so than the science as it was then from what it is at present. The former gives us an idea of the origin of Geometry and Herodotus confirms it. He says that it was first cultivated in Egypt, where Sesostris divided the land among the in
232
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
habitants. This is very probable, because measuring and dividing land involve many geometrical problems; and people then, as at the present, were undoubtedly very precise in running the dividing line. Hence, to avoid hard feelings, some knowledge of this subject was necessary. One could imagine with what zeal they studied to improve both their measuring instruments and their acquaintance with the relations of plain figures. At first a string cut from the hide of an ox served as a measuring line. In length it was about the same as an ordinary surveyor’s chain at present. They had no transit for a guide, but used stakes, trees etc., instead. In place of using pins the front chainman would probably make holers in the ground with his heel or his big-toe. Compasses they had none, nor did they wish for any; all these things of course rendered surveying quite easy, and a good student could learn it in half an hour. Making the calculations, too, required but little talent of the survey or. He could work his problems by experiment For instance, having a strip of land in the shape of a right-angled triangle, one side being 3 miles long the other 4, he could discover the length of the hyp'othenuse by placing together the ends of two sticks, one 3 the other 4 inches in length, at right angles to each other, then measuring the distance between the other ends, thus finding the distance in inches; then writing miles instead of inches would give the result sought for; or if he desired to know the relation of the diameter of a circle to its circumference he might roll a wheel a mile or so and count therevolutions, and also calculate the number of diameters contained in a mile. These results would be to each other as the diameter of a circle to its circumference. Such was Geometry, then simple and pleasant; but it was not destined long to remain so. There existed in those days, as the present, men of a philosophical turn of mind and peculiar disposition, who loved to sit on the ground, and, with closed eyes, rest their chins upon their knees and sink into vast gulfs of thought and bring to light facts unknown to their fellow-men and surprising even to themselves. I mean the Egyptian priests. Aristotle calls them the inventors of Geometry.
We have no reason for disagreeing with Aristotle, for the priests lived secluded from the world; and when weary of offering sacrifices they were wont to turn from grisly duties to the beautiful relations between lines and angles. How far they may have advanced in this science we know not. Judging, however, from the towers, bridges, temples, etc., but especially from the pyramids, we are led to infer that they were comparatively skilled. There were no geniuses, however, or if any, they were not appreciated enough to render them famous for many years. We hear of Thales as early as the seventh century B. C. Having become acquainted with the Egyptian priests, he transplanted the sciences into Greece and established a school. To him we attribute the discovery that all angles in a semicircle are right-angles. Some of his disciples made excellent discoveries. Anaxagoras, having been cast into prison on account of his opinions relating to astronomy, spent his time in trying to square the circle, but he failed; so have all others since his time. One of the pupils of Thales rendered himself famous forever by the discovery of the relations of the hypothenuse to the legs in a rightangled triangle; he also discovered many other facts of nearly equal importance Geometry then began to advance rapidly, and was taught in many schools.
Passing on a century, we come to Plato. Although gen
erally known as a philosopher, he was one of the most distinguished geometricians of his time; he travelled in Italy and Egypt, and on his return to Greece established a school for the promotion of mathematics. The first thing a man observed on approaching this school was an inscription over the door forbidding any one' to enter who did not understand geometry; on entering, there might be seen a crowd of pupils listening with admiration to the instructions of their broad-headed, all-wise tutor, or they might be engaged in solving difficult problems. Their master too was a hard student, and he would sit for hours lost in deep thought, for he had a godlike mind, and the gods geometrize continually. He was a giant in philosophy, science, and gymnastics. The problem of the duplication of a cube attracted much attention at that time, and Plato solved it, but the trisection of an angle was too much for him; genius though he was, and surpassing in talent all the other men of his age, he labored hard and long with the desire of solving this, his pet problem, but labored in vain. Nor has any man since been able to boast of surpassing him, for the problem remains to-day the same mystery that it was twenty-three centuries ago. There are many other similar problems which, having puzzled the minds of men for centuries, were at last solved by some lucky genius, favored by fate. Many there are, too, who have withstood the attempts of men for ages, and remain a secret still, so deeply is the truth hidden within them.
We have now taken a hasty glance at the growth of this science from about the fifteenth to the fourth century B. C. Here we shall leave it; it has become too extensivfe to be followed. Suffice it to say, that for the next thousand years it was cultivated in many schools, and by talented men; but during the thousand years following, geometry almost ceased to exist. All this time it was cultivated by the Arabs, and after the revival of learning the elements of Euclid were translated from the Arabic tongue and introduced into Europe. Geometry then began to hurry on its way to perfection. In the fifteenth century, Veta carried the ratio of the diameter of a circle to its circumference as far as ten decimal places. Van Ceulen, through curiosity, carried it to 35 decimal places; Dr. Clausen was ashamed of even this, and he extended it to 250 decimal places. The surface of a spherical was determined in the seventeenth century, but there was still much to be added to this science. It beheld a Kepler, and from him caught the idea of infinity; a Des Cartes appeared, and it was totally revolutionized by the application of algebra. A new study then sprang forth, called the Cartesian or General Geometry. In this can be traced the workings of two masters, Newton and Leibnitz, who reduced it almost to its present perfection. Geometry is now one of the most useful branches of science, and it is also one of the oldest. It has engaged talented men for more than thirty centuries, and for ages it has answered the cravings of geniuses, so great is the labor involved in the production of a science.
.	A. F. Z.
—The attacks made by the German authorities upon the Liberal press become more exasperating. The Bdersen Courier has been confiscated by the police without any reason whatever being given. The Liberal press in Germany is as sharply looked after and baited by the secret police as if it promulgated socialistic and revolutionary opinions instead of confining itself, as it generally does, to urging the cause of true liberalism and progress.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	233
College Gossip.
—The Inter-Ocean is publishing the histories of several of our colleges.—Volante. ■
—A Cornell man was recently injured by an accidental discharge of his duties.—Philosophian.'
—On account of the ill feeling arising from the elections, the faculty at Dartmouth has decided to abolish class-day exercises.
—It is rumored that Prof. Dunbar, Dean of the Harvard College faculty, has handed in his resignation, to take effect July 1,1882.	.
—With all the advantages of Amherst, the students are still unhappy. They protest against compulsory church attendance.—Philosophian Review.
—Two colleges in Canada only are thoroughly co-edu-cational, they are Dalhousie College, Nova Scotia, and Queen’s University, Kingston.—Heiddberg Journal.
—An editor, speaking of a large and fat contemporary, remarked, “ that if all flesh was grass, he must be a load of hay.” “ I expect I am,” said the fat man, “ from the way the donkeys are nibbling at me.”—College Message.
—A son of affluent parents may spend, at Harvard, from §1,000 to §1,800 without acquiring a reputation for extravagance, while at Oxford, England, a commoner has been known to spend £2.000, or even £3,00.0 a year without exciting comment.—Volante.
—The overseers of Harvard College, at a late meeting, confirmed the appointment of Serono Watson, Ph. D., curator of the herbarium and instructor in photography. A resolution that the statutes making attendance on morning prayers and other religious exercises compulsory should be repealed was defeated.
—Great interest has been aroused at Bowdoin College by the suit brought against eight students for §10,000 each for damages to ajfellow-student, whose eyesight was nearly destroyed by their wanton “ hazing-” The entire sophomore class, and probably the whole college, will be summoned as witnesses. The trial will be held in January by the Supreme Court of the county.
—The suit against certain Bowdoin College students recalls the fact that Dr. Cyrus Hamilton, now President of Middleburg College, was “ hazed ” when in college for being too popular with the faculty. While lying in bed two gallons of molasses were poured over him, and in the dark, thinking that he was weltering in blood, he ran out of doors, only to he put under the pump. Recognizing his assailants, he had them arrested next day, when they were glad to pay him a sum sufficient to carry him through college and the divinity school.
—The venerable Josiah Quincy, in an interesting account of “Harvard Sixty Years Ago,” referring to the decoration of college-rooms at that time, says: “My classmate Otis had ornamented his mantel-piece with two curious black stones, which excited great interest in his visitors. He had made a journey to Washington to see his father, who was a Senator, and had brought these varieties home as precious memorials of his travels. He had a strange tale to tell concerning them. It seemed that the people in Baltimore actually burned just such stones as these, and, wonderful to relate, there was no smoke in their chimneys. I believe that these singular minerals have become so popular in Harvard College and they are now brought there in considerable quantities. The only change is that they are no longer displayed on the mantelpiece, but just below it—in the grate. They will be recognized under the name of anthracite coal.”
—A most disgraceful outrage took place at the Toronto University a short time ago. Early in the evening a freshman named Hunter was crossing the lawn in front of the college when he was accosted by a fellow who told him he was wanted. He had followed his guide but a few steps when he was seized by a number of masked men, who handled him pretty roughly and then conveyed him to a third story college residence room, where they locked him up. The party next seized three other freshmen, named Holmes, Duff, and Henderson, and abused
them in a most shameful manner. Holmes was tied and gagged, after which he was kicked most unmercifully and thrown over a picket fence, his hand catching in a rail and being badly lacerated. The three were then locked up in a room. Meantime Hunter managed to escape by breaking the window and descending by means of a rope made from the bedclothes. The other three were then put upon trial, and it was decided to duck them in the creek. The victims were accordingly conducted to the creek, and were just about to be “ ducked ” when a deputation arrived with a reprieve and the prisoners were set free. It is thought that a Government inquiry will take place. Several of the older students who participated in the outrage are kn->wn, and will probably be dealt with in a summary manner.	.
—Thos. P. O’Connor, M. P. for Galway, now on a visit to this country, was educated chiefly at the Queen’s College, Galway, where he was highly distinguished, and graduated in due course in the Queen’s University, winning special honors, both with the R. A. and M A. degrees in modern languages and modern literature. His University career over, he became a reporter on Saunders's News-Letter, then one of the leading dailies in Dublin. After three years he went from Dublin to London, and obtained a place on the Daily Telegraph. “ How long he remained on the Telegraph," says the Dublin correspondent of the Boston Herald,, “I cannot say; but, whether as one of the writers for that journal or for other leading London journals, or as reporter in the gallery of the House ot Commons, he was always valued for his ability and, indeed, I might say for his brilliancy. While he worked for the press, he was rot an unfrequent attendant at the debating halls of the English metropolis, and his voice was always raised in those places in support of advanced liberal principles. Until last year, however, he was not known to the puplic at large. It was then that, at the request of Mr. Parnell, he issued an address to the electors of Galway on Home Rule and Land League principles, and that, after rather a stiff fight, he won the second seat for that borough. His election was certainly creditable to the Galway people, for he had nothing to recommend him to their favor but his principles and his ability, and here I may remark that, while Ireland sent to Parliament several such men at the last election, Great Britain did not send even one. In the House of Commons, Mr. O’Connor at once took place among the front rank of debaters. He generally aimed at answering some member of the ministry, and very few members of the ministry could deliver a better extempore speech. Once in the thick of the political flight, he seemed to take a pleasure in .his work, and, accordingly, for the last twelve months he has probably spoken oftener both in Parliament and public platforms, in England and Ireland, than any other Irish member.” Mr. O'Connor is only about thirty-three years of age.
• New Books.
Sanctuary-Boys’ Illustrated Manual. Embracing the ceremonies of the Inferior Ministers at Low Mass, High Mass, Solemn High Mass, Vespers, Asperges, Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, and Absolution for the Dead. By the Rev. James A. McCallen. S. S. Baltimore: John Murphy & Co., 182 Baltimore Street. 1881. 16S pp. 12 mo. JI.
The title-page alone, and the fact that the Manual is published with the approval of the Most Rev. Archbishop ot Baltimore, should be enough to convince anyone that the book is just what is needed. Rev. Father McCallen is a member of the Society or Congregation of St. Sulpice, one of the principal objects of which society is the prepa-rafion of students for the.priesthood; added to which,-the author’s long experience as master of ceremonies in the Cathedral of Baltimore would be supposed to eminently qualify him for the task of writing such a hand-book as he now presents the public. The style is clear, the language simple, and the text is illustrated by more than one hundred engravings. Should this work meet with the success which is anticipated for it, the author promises a second volume explaining the ceremonies of Holy Week.
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Life of the Angelic Doctor. St. Thomas Aquinas, of the Order of Friars Preachers. By a Father of the same Order. New York: D. & J. Sadlier & Co., 31 Barclay Street. 1881. 186 pp. 16 mo.
This brief life of the prince of Christian philosophers and theologians is written in a pleasing and simple style and is so replete with anecdotes that it cannot fail to prove attractive reading. Nowadays the generality of readers prefer brevity, and are oftentimes willing to sacrifice a rich intellectual feast to gratify this weakness; the author of this Life of St. Thomas has probably done well, therefore, in suiting his work to the popular demand. Scholars will read it, of course—to see what it contains, or to refresh their memories upon minor events in the life of the great author of the Summa Theologia and the Summa Contra Gentiles. St. Thomas was a poet as well as a philosopher and theologian, as is evident from the many gems with which he has adorned the Office for Corpus Christi and other liturgical offices. When it was objected at his canonization that he had worked no miracles (which was not true) Pope John XXII answered that he had “ worked as many miracles as he had written articles,”—alluding to the Summa; and Cardinal Besarion, one of the most illustrious ornaments of the Greek Church, has said that St. Thomas was the most learned of the saints and the most saintly of the learned. “ Take away Thomas,” said Bucer, “ and I will dissolve the Church,” and Luther, being unable to refute his arguments, heaped abuse upon him. So great an intellect did the Angelic Doctor possess that even in his most profound works he dictated to four secretaries at the same time, on widely different subjects. We regret that the author of the brief Life before us has allowed some blemishes to remain in his work. We hope the secoud edition will not be permitted to go without a careful revision.
Exchanges.
—Tine Illustrated Catholic American for Dec. 24 gives a fine portrait and sketch of Rev. P. F. Dealy, S. J., of New York, a graduate of Fordham, but whose scientific and theological studies were completed in Europe.
—The current number of The Philosophian Review has a fairly written sketch of the great Edmund Burke, who, strangely enough, is considered one of the greatest of English statesmen although he was an Irishman, and of Norman descent. The Philosophian's “ Educational Notes ” and the Exchange Department are ably edited.
—We wonder what kind of a genius presides at the printing-press on which The College Message is printed! He seems to have a spite against ink-makers or to be in league with the manufacturers of spectacles. This month the color is neat and regular; that there is so little of it is the great drawback—we may add that this is the only thing about the College Message that we can find fault with. The lines on “Sunset,” by “A,” in the December number, are pretty.
—The current number of McGee's Illustrated Weekly is replete with interesting matter. It contains a lengthy biographical sketch, with portrait, of the Honorable William E Robinson, M. C., Brooklyn; the “Holly Gatherers”; “Mixing the Christmas Pudding”; “Scenes on the Backwater, Ireland”; “ Map of Modern Russia, Showing its Resources of Civilizations ”; Sir Walter Ralegh in Ireland, by Sir John Pope Hennessy; “Madeleine,” from the French of Jules Sandeau, of the French Academy; editorials, poetry literature, etc. Altogether a most interesting number.
—Among a large number of applicants for an exchange is The Normal News, from the Michigan State Normal Schoo], Ypsilanti, Mich., a fairiy edited paper, but as it is not exactly on our plane we think an exchange would benefit neither. Academica (formerly Belatrasco—what an abominable name!—it was well to change it, and the new title is a becoming one; it is now the Targum's turn) fro -the University of Cincinnati, visits us for the first time; we hope it will not be the last. Academica is a neatly
prin'ed and well-edited paper; the exchange department evinces both senoiarship and good’ judgment.
—The Niagara Index issues a Supp'ement and Extra giving an account, of the Silver Jubilee of the Seminary of Our Lady of Angels. Most Rev. Archbishop Lynch, of Toronto, the founder of the College, delivered an address after the Pontifical High Mass, in which the history, vicissitudes,- and final success of this renowned seat of learning are recounted. Like the University of Notre Dame, Our Lady of Angels became a victim of the fire-fiend, and was reduced to ashes, only to rise in greater brilliancy. May she have a prosperous career, and live and flourish to celebrate in greater glory her Golden Ju-bilee!
—Donahoe's Magazine for December has the following table of contents: I, Portrait of Archbishop MacHale, with Biographical Sketch; II, Our Reasonable Faith; III, The Jesuits and their Persecutors; IV, The Opinions of Men; V, Yorktown; VI, Stories of Andrew Jackson; VII, New Yiar; VIII, Some of our Weak Points; IX, Ireland and Russia; X, jfolly Vaughan, Sequel of an Eviction; XI, A Christmas Voice, Moonlight; XII, Father Burke’s Eulogy on Archbishop MacHale; XIII, Tne British Empire; XIV, The Irish Bar; XV, Missionaries to Blacks, Sacrilege in a Church; XVI, Reaping the Whirlwind; XVII, The Charms ot Pleasant Manners; XVIII, State Nicknames, Ireland,s Extremity; XIX, Our Girls; XX, True to his Memory; XXI, Our Young Folks, The Festival of Christmas XXII, Ornaments for the Christmas Tree; XXIII, Useful Knowledge; XXIV, The Humorist; XXV, Talk with our Readers; XXVI, Personal; XXVII, Notices of Recent Publications; XXVIII, Obituary; XXIX, Irish National Convention at Chicago.
—The Universal Penman is the title of a sixteen-page octavo paper published monthly by Sawyer Bros., Ottawa, Canada, for §1 a year. Although unpretentious in appearance, much of the matter that it contains is really excellent. The editor evidently possesses ability and a dis-criminating judgment. It is true that this periodical is not so handsomely gotten up as The Penman's Art Journal of New York, but the matter is not so far inferior as one might be led to suppose from the appearance of the paper. It is not the first’time that true merit has presented itself in a homely costume. Among the longer articles of the October number is a sketch of “Platt R Spencer,” founder of the Spencerian System of Penmanship; an article on “Engrossing and Illuminating” ; another on “Flourishing,” with engravings; and a Phonographic department with an engraved lesson in Isaac Pitman Stenography. The article of Mr. J. May, a sketch of the history of the art of stenography, contains matter of uncommon excellence, and we hope to call further attention to it pi our next issue.
—The December number of The Catholic World is up to the usual high standard of literary excellence characteristic of the magazine. The following are the contents: I, Tne English Prisons of Dublin, R. F. Farrell; II, A. Christmas Play in the Pyrenees, M. P. Thompson; III, Who Shall Say ? Eliot Ryder; IV, Bishop John Dubois, L. W. Reilly: V. The Fall of Wolsey, S. Hubert Buike; VI, The Late War Between Chile and Pi ru, C. M. O’Keefe; VII, The End of the World, The Rev. George M. Searle; VIII, A Christmas Card, Edith W. Cook; IX, The Story of a Portionless Girl, (Continued;) X, A Christmas Legend, « Alice Wilmot Chetwode; XI, Tradition of the Church of Jerusalem Concerning Sacrament and Sacrafice, Part I, The Rev. A. F. Hewit; XII, A. Cnristmas Tale ot ’76, William Seton; XIII, A True Monk—The Venerable Bede, The Rev. James J. Dougherty; XIV, The Decay of the Celtic Languiges, T. O. Russell; XV, New Publications. St. Mary Magdalen—Sanctuary Boys’ Illustrated Manual —The History of the Primitive Yankees—The Criminal History of the British Empire—The Practice of Interior Recollection with God, drawn from the Psalms of David— Household Science—The Bloody Chasm.
—The Georgetown College Journal for December contains, among other good things, two pieces of unexceptionable poetry—“Ode on St. Cecilia’s Day,” and “After the Storm.” We learn from the editorial columns that two prizes for essays are offered for 1882—the subjects to

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
235
be written upon being, respectively, “ The Influence of Mahometanism on Modern Civilization,” and “ Carlyle and his Influence on English Literature.” Two better subjects could not be chosen; from the sentimental twaddle written upon Mahometanism for some of our Ameri-'can College papers and magazines of late, one would be led to suppose there was something admirable in it, whereas, on the contrary, it is one of the most damnable isms that ever cursed the face of the earth. The misconception is, of course, owing to the impressions made by men of the Mallock stripe—men of great natural ability, but I,	of poor judgment and loose principles. The exchange ed-
f	itor of the College Journal charaes the Dickinson Liberal
i	with plagiarizing an essay on “ Social Evils.” One ot the
J ,	social evils of the day is literary pilfering, and the editors
ft	of certain papers from which better should be expected
M	are often guilty of it. We see instances of this kind al-
«	most every week. Such editors would do well to take to
themselves the College Journal's suggestion to the Liberal: I	“If you don’t feel competent to give original advice, give
| credit for what you borrow, or omit it altogether.”
I	—By an oversight we failed to welcome our brilliant
■ little contemporary, The Spectator, from St. Laurent College, Montreal. The first number of the re-issue was an excellent one, but the second, now before us far outstrips its predecessor. “ Moonlight,” a sonnet, by G. W. B., is a poetic gem such as we rarely find in college papers. We ! cannot resist the desire to reproduce it.
'	“ What is more beautiful, ye angels tell,
Then when the moon of Summer’s lovely night
।	In silence silvers, with a steady light,
-	The many treetops in the lonely dell;
■	•	When not a sound, e’en of the evening bell,
|	Not e’en a break, disturbs the stillness bright,
i	Not e’en a cloud obscures in lonley flight
i	The stars unnumbered,—what a wondrous spell,
I	Oh, far more beauteous e’en than this fair scene
£	Is God’s own moonlight, casting o’er the soul
■	The mantling glory of His grace divine;
And leading high and low unto the Queen
Of men and angels, who will deck the goal
Of life with flow’rets cu’led for virtue’s shrine.”
“Joseph Addison,” by W. J. K., is a well-written essay on one of the founders of the original Spectator, from which our Montreal contemporary' takes the motto, “ Parva Magni nominis umbra." “ A New Race of Dogs— The Tailless Family,” and “A Trip Down the Narragan-sett,” are charmingly-written essays. The editorial on the benefits to a student of a knowledge of Latin and ■ Greek is strong and sensible, and the fact so happily explained, that in deep study we have presented to our minds the foundation on which the reflective power may build its fabric of new and mind-emiching thoughts is well calculated to lighten the burden of the student. The excerpta are choice and the local department all that could be wished. We extend our greetings to the editors
i of The Spectator and wish them bon voyage on the ocean of journalism.
—The American Art Journal for December the lO.h , opens with a short but excellent sketch of “ Franz Liszt in Weimar,” from the pen of Gustav Kobbe. Mr. Kobbe had, evidently, just the subject, that suited his taste, or else he possesses great versatility of genius, for his sketch of Liszt—or, rather, glimpses of Liszt’s wonderful career— is one of the most pleasingly-written word-pictures that L* we have seen. “There is a grand Duke in Weimar,” he says, “with his palace and his court; and there is also occasionally a grand musician in Weimar, without a palace, it is true, but with a court which pays him homage as great as that paid to any Grand Duke, or, indeed, to any European potentate, and certainly more sincere. When the Grand Duke of Weimar comes to his Residenzstadt there is a little stir; but when Liszt comes it is heralded all over Germany, and abroad too. Then the little town thrown off its dullness, and for the moment seems to reflect the brilliancy of a past generation, when it was called the North-'ern Athene.” (Goethe and Schiller lived here.) Explaining the fact that Liszt and not Wagner is the fundamental chord in German harmonic circles, Mr. Kobbe says:
" That Liszt is a/prince among musicians, anyone who has attended, his court at Weimar will affirm. ‘And yet,’some will ask, 1 why is not all this worship given to Wagner, for he is, af
ter all, the greater composer?’ The question is very pertinent, for Wagner is, undoubtedly, the greater compjser. But Liszt is singularly gifted. His art is reproductive as well as productive. Undoubtedly the greatest pianist that ever lived, he is also one of the greatest composers; add to this a most gracious address and winning manners, and withal a personality so magnetic that those who surround him move as in a charmed circle, and his influence is readily understood. . . . Indeed they say his personality is as fascinating as his playing; that he seems the incarnation of his art. and that he is always the same good-humored, courtous host.”
The Art Journal is publishing also a serial sketch entitled. “ A Day with Verdi at Sant’ Agato,” wiih some other pleasant sketches, editorials, musical and other art gossip, etc
—Last week’s Vidette Reporter had no exchange notes. We presume the “truly wise and timid” editor of that paper was so overcome bj' the effort of the previous week that he could not furnish any. It is an old saying that “ if fools hold their tongue they may be taken for wise men,” and in fact no sooner do some people, in a position and with surroundings that otherwise would entitle them to consideration, open their mouths or set their pen to paper than they show their weakness,—their vulgar ignorance crops out, and they can no longer command even a small measure of respect. As we said, last week’s Vidette Reporter had no exchange notes; this week, however, there is a column and a half anent our remarks on the Iowa “ Daniel come to judgment.” He wishes us to enter into a discussion with him; if he were a gentleman,— if be had not sunk to the low level of blackguardism that characterize his words in the current issue—we might enter into discussion with him, although we have neither the time nor inclination for it. Tnat the fellow is ignorant as well as vulgar—ignorance and vulgarity are generally found in company—is evident from the fact that he cannot quote eight words from Shakspeare gramatically—“Dammed behim,” he writes, “ who first says Hold, enough!” We fear we have so far lost respect for one who in his silence we considered the “ truly wise and timid ” exchange editor of the Vidette-Reporter, that we can never enter into a discussion with him, which is a pity, as he would probably learn a thing or two about Gavazzi in particular, and history in general, of which he seems wofully ignorant. The following excerpt from the exchange department of the current issue ot The Oberlin Review is worthy of consideration:
“ The exchange column of the college paper has alwyas been regarded by all outside of the particular locality where the paper is published as its most interesting part. Some of the ablest men who have ever been connected with a college paper have had charge of this department. It is the department where the peculiar views of each college have been set forth and their differences discussed. A college editor turns instinctively to t he exchange column first. It is important that for this department only men of good sense and fair judgment be chosen, for it represents, to a areat extent, the college, and upon its conduct depends the estimation in which the college is held abroad. We are happy to say that the majority of the exchange editors with whom we have to deal are men who are just and fail in their criticisms, and would scorn to indulge in abuse, no matter what the provocation. Now and then, however, we meet with a man like the exchange editor of the Vidette-Reporter, whose sole accomplishment seems to lie in the direction of usinir vulgar epithets, and who cannot fail to bring his paper if not his college into disrepute. We trust that the good sense of the students of Iowa State University will be sufficient to silence this man, and prevent another such outbreak as that in the last issue of the Reporter. At any rate there should be a sentiment among college papers that will not tolerate vulgarity and rowdyism in the exchange department of the college press.”
■ —The mucb-talked-of French treaty with England is very much like the Arabian mirage. Tie more you march after it, the further it recedes from you. England was consoled for a long time with the promises of what the regenerative republic would do for it. “Just wait until we get Gambetta in, and you shall see what a fine treaty we will have.” Gambetla has got in, and holds the guiding strings of Government, but when the expectant ambassadors turn up to know what he is going to do for them by reductions on cotton goods and the rest of it, they are bowed out with all the grace of which a Frenchman is master, and told to call another time.
236	-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 24=, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts'and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 per A-iiiium, ^Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Through the courtesy of Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., editor of The 'Ate Maria," we have ri ceived the esteemed favors of Mr. Isaac Pitman, of Bath, England, the great phonetic reformer and inventor of Phonography. These favors have been kindly forwarded to us by one of Mr. Pitman’s friends and disciples, the Rev. Lewis H. Drummond, 8. J., of St. Beuno’s College, St. Asaph, North Wales. The Rev. Father Drummond says in his letter: “ I have written Phonography in my notes and sermons for the last ten years, and find it—especially Isaac Pitman’s method, for I had tried several others—invaluable.” He says Mr. Pitman “ wishes to call the attention of the Scholastic to the great question of Spelling Reform,” adding that we may “ have already handled this topic, and if so that we probably have not been slow in discovering that the Phoneticians are no longer laughed at by serious men.” It is as he supposes. We have touched upon the subject of the Spelling Reform more than once, and a long article on this subject in one of our May numbers had the honor of being copied into one of the handsomest and best special periodicals in the United States—The Penman's Art Journal, of New York,—which having twenty or thirty thousand subscribers gives reason to hope that a large number of persons have had their attention called to the necessity of a reform.
—[We have remarked in the various Chicago papers favorable notices of the Household Library of Catholic Poets. We take the following from the Chicago Times. In our next issue we will give it a more extended notice, after we have glanced over it.]
Household Library, of Catholic Poets from Chaucer to the Present Day (1320-1881). Edited by Eliot Ryder. Notre Dame; Ind: Joseph A. Lyons. Special limited edition $5: Popular edition $2.00.
A handsome red-lined edition of poems compiled by Eliot Ryder under the title “ A Household Library of Catholic Poets,’’ is to form one of the holiday attractions. The advance sheets have already appeared, and the volume will, unquestionably be a welcome addition to the general home library. It is to’be regretted that in arranging a volume of this description it becomes necessary to select some special poems from the writings of each poet, instead of giving the entire collection. The volume at hand embraces the period from Cbaucer to the present day, characteristic and appropriate poems being chosen to represent each writer. Brief biographical sketches preface the poems quoted, giving important and entertaining facts in regard to each individual mentioned. This arrangement is a satisfactory one, as but little information can be obtained from other sources relative to some of the late living poets whose dainty verses are found in the pages of some magazine or other periodical. The collection includes poems by Chaucer, Sir Thomas More, Alexander Pope, Robert Southwell, John Dryden; Richard Crashaw, Thomas Moore, Rev. Francis Mahoney, Gerald Griffin, Rev. Frederick William Faber, Coventry Patmore, Adelaide Proctor, Dante Gabriel Rosetti, and many others. The appendix includes many names and poems familiar to readers of The Catholic World aud other publications of a similar nature. The volume will make an elegant gift.book, and will serve as a guide to Catholic‘literature in poetical form.
I
- ^In producing - ideas it is necessary for the artist to reflect as to whether the subject to be represented is joyful or tragical, or both-at the same time. In the first instance the thought must be expressed by objects representing pleasure, and amenity, in the second by sadness or sorrow or whatever might give a sad effect.
Choice of Subjects and Nobility of Ideas.
In order to .compose with lofty and well-disposed ideas, it is necesary to select a subject that will show forth good order and elevate the imagination. Once selected it must be treated with sublimity of style, always keeping the same character and always preserving the three unities: time, place, and action. Then one can introduce novelties that spring from nature, but they must be introduced in a certain manner to prevent looseness in the subject caused by foreign ideas. • Having selected the subject to be represented, the artist should meditate on the significant compositions of the celebrated masters who have so excellently expressed the truth in their works, never departing from grace, nobleness, and beauty, almost elevating nature above herself. Besides, he should study and ponder on the beautiful characteristics of nature to use them in his representations, and, at the same time, enlarge his fund of knowledge by reading books that treat of the subject he may wish to represent. The reading and study of the poets is. particularly necessary, as they, with their inventions, awake the mind to earnest fancies and lofty thought aud bring it to the highest point of idealism. The only difference between poetical composition and pictorial consists in the fact that, the first has the faculty of weaving with words a nobly-measured turn:of ^thought to introduce the-•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ’	237
moving effects of succession of time, and the latter depicts with colors the most beautiful ideas that can accompany any projected point. In truth poetry and painting both take their idea from the same source; painting being mute poetry, and poetry a speaking picture.
On Pantomime.
Pictorial pantomime is that which, through the motions of the body, expresses the feeling of the heart. It must be treated with boldness to properly apply it. If the artist would endeavor to touch the hearts of spectators, he must recall.to life, as it were, the dead; if he would quietly persuade and pleasurably touch the feelings of those before whom they are placed, he must set forth the feats with the same life like-expression with which they executed them. ;
Observation of the Visible.
AU that we can see in our mind’s eye or in reality, form objects of painting. It is, then, the imitation that shows the merit, and in that imitation is shown forth the mind of the artist. The following are rules by which, if adopted, one cannot fail to be greatly benefitted.
First, the artist as a philosopher, should not only view the external form of the objects, but also their conformation with others, their properties and their nature. Secondly, having necessarily to imitate all that is capable of imitation, it is necessary to keep to the simplicity of nature itself and observe it closely to avoid falling into fictitious appearances-
On the Actions of Man and Motions of Animals.
It has already been said that the use and depiction of action are most eloquent in reproducing the inner thoughts of man which are expressed in so great a variety of ways. Nature endowed man with more intellect than other animals that he might be able to express his various feelings and affections; hence it is that the more simply and naturally expressive the actions are, the more they increase the dignity of the subject. Such is acquired only in the the intimate and earnest study of the nature of man, which manifests the sentiments of the soul in an instant by some subitaneous action. Thus, the artist, with greatest acumen, must strive to master those thoughts and ideas which in their conception and fulness contain the beginning, the continuation and the end.
Of these successions the beginning is the most appropriate for painting, for that is the happy moment in which the mind contemplates acts in the first instance of their conception. It is then that are produced the spontaneous actions, so excellent and so necessary in vivacious expressions. The end is not so expressive, for the mind having ceased to operate, the body may remain in action without the animative spirit; it is, therefore, necessary not to select this instance, for it would be perceived that the actions were without real, natural spirit, and consequently they would appear cold and hard.
In giving motion to man, in order to represent the actions, it is necessary to reflect that the figures must give a certain positive of their actions, of the sta’e they were in before acting thus, and of the future by making the end of their actions known, which never could be expressed by representing the end alone.
With regard to brutes, those that are endowed with most intelligence show forth their passions almost similarly to man. A dog, for instance, moved by anger, shows his feelings by throwing himself against his enemy. In man’s
countenance are depicted, against those who offended him, at one time hatred, at another joy, sorrow, and the other inner workings of the mind.	.
There is an established general rule for brutes, and that is that in disposing them en masse to represent by their motions the actions of the moment. In making use of the motion of numbers to express symptoms, feelings or actions, one should not exaggerate, in expressing the same, more than is absolutely necessary, but should produce those thoughts alone which suflice for true expression, adding others without any particular-motion, in order that affec-* tation and stiffness may be avoided. In giving motion to man, the action should be decorous and not brought to immoderateness ; this immoderateness should be restrained, especially in violent actions and furious expressions which bring man, as it were, beside himself, in order that in representing beauty as triumphant it may not be transformed into too earnest passion. The Laocoon and Niobe may be cited as examples which, although on the point of passing under the power of Charon by violent death, nevertheless remain always beautiful. So also with regard to a tempest of passion there must be preserved in the actions a certain measure of pleasing appearances. '
The St. Cecilian. Entertainment
The St. Cecilian Entertainment given on the evening of the 17th was, as the exercises of this society always are, well attended. At precisely 4.45 the Band struck up the “ Bon Ton Regiment Quickstep,” which was.passably well rendered. Next came “ TheJGrand Duchess Waltz ” by the Orchestra which was certainly not “ carved a dainty morsel to the gods.” The curtain then rung up, and E. Fischel came forward as orator of the day, and delivered a well-written composition in a manner that merited the hearty applause it received. The duet by L Florman and G. Schaefer was well sung and applauded to encore. The Band retrieved its lost lanrels and gained additional ones in the rendition of “ Gems de 1’Opera.” L. Elorman concluded the first part of the programme with the solo “Welcome Pretty Primrose,” which he sang.with.much feeling.and taste.
Part II consisted of a comedy entitled “The Miser,” adapted from the French of Moliere, and another comedy, “ The Virginia Mummy.” In the former W. H. Johnson played the role of the miser, and performed his part very creditably, though we think he lacked at times a proper conception of his part. G. J. Rhodius, as Gleonte, seemed perfectly at home before his audience, but would appear to more advantage.had he been more familiar with his part. J. F. Grever, as Polyander played his part in an easy and graceful manner. J. W. Guthrie, as Lampiere made a good steward to the miser, but a more intimate acquaintance with his part would improve his playing. E. Fishel personated Anselm, a notary, in a very pleasing style and good voice. G. Castanedo, Maitre Jacques, cook and coachman to the miser, did his best, which was all that could be expected. T. Hurley, as valet to Cleonte,-might have spoken more.distinctly, though he made an excellent rogue. J. Heffernan, as Orontes, the miser’s needy neighbor, flattered and explained his wants most eloquently, though to no purpose. A. Browne, the commissary, acted with the earnestness and grace that characterize all his actions. W. Coghlin, Lamerluche, bore up bravely, despite his want of repairs. J. Kolars, was a model of an economicservant,	*
238,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Virginian Mummy, a very laughable affair, was presented by the following caste: C. Porter, as the Original Virginian, kept the house in roars. Charley, remember on like occasions in future that you must sustain your role to the end, and avoid profanity, and you will be our ideal of an Original Virginian. G. J. Rhodius, in the role of Captain ‘ Rifle, was almost faultless. C. Kolars, Dr. Galen, was the embodiment scientific research, and raised mummies to life with a despatch that surprised everybody. A. Coghlin, as O’Leary, made the best possible hand of a very contemptible character, while C. Echlin and G. Schaefer performed their parts with a natural and simple grace that charmed every one.
We do mt wish any one should infer that the performance was faulty to a serious degree; on the contrary, we consider it the best en'ertainment we attended this year, and if we have criticized any particular person or part it was not for any satisfaction we found in doing so, but in order that like mistakes might be avoided in future. When we consider that some of the members of the Society appeared for the first time on the stage, and the unavoidable disadvantages under which they labored, we are surprised that there was not more to complain of. It should be a subject of encouragement to the St. Cecilians to see that they are able to acquit themselves so well on their first appearance, and an incentive to greater efforts in future.
Persevere, then, boys; pay attention to the advice and instruction of your efficient President, and without doubt you will add glory to your time-honored society. Yes, we are firmly convinced from what we have seen, that with attention and industry the St. Cecilans of ’81-82 will reflect as much credit on the organization to which they are proud to belong, as did the members of any year from the present to th; time when they electrified their hearers under the spreading shade of “ the historic locust.”
The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association’s Oration.
Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen:
We come before you this evening in the character of old friends. It is true that many of us are young in years, but as members of a time-honored society, which, for not a few revolving cycles, has stood upon the stage of this Washington Hall and its predecessors, in the presence of just such generous and high toned audiences as we now have the honor to address, we feel the dignity of antiquity upon our shoulders, the patriarchal pallium adorns and glorifies us, and while the n tine and fame of those members who have gone before casts an aureole around, we feel ourselves the necessity of persevering, manful efforts to maintain for that name and fame its original lustre. Cast your eyes about you and behold this once handsome hall now in its decrepitude, and soon to be replaced by one more fitting and commodius. Observe these boards on which I now tread, worn by the feet of generation after generation of Cecilians, Philopatrians, Thespians, Columbians. Yet, when Washington Hall was new—when the first burst of its splendor flattered the blushing East, the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was already hallowed by age—already had her children, graduated at their Alma Mater, gone forth into the busy haunts of men, the marts of trade, the courts of law and equity, and the tented
field of patriotism. In those days their audiences assembled beneath the shade of the locust trees that then surrounded Notre Dame, and sat entranced at the mellifluous accents that made a temporary elysium of their surroundings. Three colleges have in succession appeared on the spot where now stands Notre Dame, and each of the three has witnessed the triumphs of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
When the first of these colleges, modest and retiring, as it would appear to us now, but magnificent for the times in which it was erected, was doomed to destruction to make room for a larger one, it was our S iciety that drummed it out, for we were mighty drummers in those days, and wore the Zouave uniform, as is evidenced by numerous photographs of the period,
The second college was built during the vacation of 1865. During the preceding year, this hall had been used as a dormitory, consequently no exhibitions had been given, and the commencement exercises were unenlivened by the customary drama. But in the fall of 1865, it was our Society that re-opened this hall, and re-dedicated it to the purposes for which it was built. This is one of the most glorious epochs in a career of grandeur; then flourished the elegant Graham, the graceful Flanagan, (both of Nashville, Tenn.,) the correct O’Connell, the melodious Freeman, with Braunstein, great in harmony, the soldierly Brothers, Langan, and the astute O’Reilly. Then did our Very Rev. Father General pay to our society the merited compliments of declaring that in his judgment, for the first time, an exhibition at Notre Dame had surpassed a similar undertaking at St. Mary’s Academy,—a compliment that was much thought of at the time and long remembered. The second College, with its glorious and fond remembrances, has passed away. Washington Hall is soon to go; but the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association has not passed away. Her flag still waves from the proud pinnacles of our new palatial home, and when the new exhibition hall is finished and dedicated, her children will burst with renewed enthusiasm upon the astonished gaze of the audience there assembled—an audience, Rev. Fathers, ladies and gentlemen, of which we trust you will form an honored portion.
In conclusion we call your attention to our programme of this evening. In “ The Miser ” you will find depicted ■ the comic woes of a covetous soul,—woes debarred from human sympathy. In the “Virginia Mummy,” science will receive its duly recognized position. Hoping that you will appreciate our efforts to instruct as well as to amuse, I will give place to the drama,—after wishing our Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President and Faculty of the University, and all our fellow-students, a merry Christmas when it comes, and also a happy New Year!
Minims’ Column.
The usual meeting of the" Minim Reportorial Corps for the Discussion of Matters and Things in General, took place on Sunday afternoon, immediately after Vespers. Master Francis I. Otis, U. 8. A., in the Chair.
The Chairman invited the members to discuss the possibility of ameliorating the tone of dramatic entertainments, as given by our Junior and Senior friends. It appeared to him that there could be no doubt about the need of reform. The more delicate question was how to introduce it without wounding the feelings of our fellow-students.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
239
Mister Donn Piatt suggested that perhaps if the Juniors had had the opportunity of witnessing the recent performance of New Arts by the Minims, they might have imbibed many useful suggestions. Dignity and composure were the first requisites to dramatic success. He hoped that arrangements would be made in future to enable all the students of the University to profit by the Minim Entertainments.
Master T. Norfolk of the Chicago Times, observed that nothing could be in worse taste than the self-laudatory address read by Ed. Fishel. The St. Cecilians assumed a great deal too much for their Society; and then that putting forward of the Nashville boys by one of their own number was perfectly nauseating. He had understood that those degraded creatures, the Seniors, kept up continual disputes in regard to the relative merits of the respective cities in whicn their parents happened to be, for the present time, residing. But that such a spirit of levity should have permeated among the Juniors, the next department to our own, was intolerable. We should hear of Minims next giving themselves airs. This sort of thing must be frowned down, and we look to the press to do it.
Master Aloysius Kelly said that he naturally shrank from criliciz ng the works of a brother artist, but if Ech-lin thought that he could produce such paintings as he exhibited Saturday evening to the discriminating gaze of an unbiased audience, he did them an injustice as well as himself. The first production—the “Rattlesnake,” was utterly devoid of technique; and the genre painting that followed showed either ignorance or neglect of the first principles of chiaro' scuro. Could such things pass unrebuked in a University which was the abode of a Gregori? —aye! and laying aside all false modesty, he might add, of a Kelly also.
Master W. J. Miller remarked that Florman’s singing was, on the whole, pretty good, although he might have attended a little more accurately to the pizzicato movements. His chest register, too, was defective, and his highest notes were not sufficiently sostenuto. If he sang the cadences un poco piu piano it would have produced a much finer effect. He thought that Schaefer need not have .wiggled his head so much while vocalizing, thereby causing the audience to tremble for his cervical vertebrae. But these were slight faults, which would doubtless be remedied at the next performance. He was quite pleased with the improvement he noticed in the Band and Orchestra.	.
Master Denny O’Connor said that perhaps for the benefit of the University they had better keep these things hushed up as much as possible. He would take care that they did not occur again. He would enter into correspondence with the Secretary of the St. Cecilian Society, and offer his services'to teach the members a thing or two before their next exhibition. He had no doubt that he would be successful, and that all would, in future, be well.
The Chairman said, with a sigh, that he sincerely hoped that Master O’Connor’s kindness would not be thrown away. But he had frequently labored himself among the St. Cecilians, and had been scoffed at—yes, gentlemen, absolutely scoffed at for his pains. But some people were so self-opinionated that you could not teach them anything.	.
The meeting was here interrupted by the arrival of a telegram from Jay Gould for Master Ryan Devereux,
who is connected-with the U. P. R. R. Master Devereux begged to be excused for a few moments, as the business would not admit of procrastination. He exhibited considerable uneasiness on retiring; but stated, in answer to anxious questions, that ha did mt feel authorizjd at present to divulge the purport of the telegram.
Master Willie Berthelet then begged to be informed if the new branch line lately started out, extending to the shores of our sylvan lakes, was to be under the control of that monster Gould.
The Chairman was sorry to hear such an epithet from the lips of any member. He called Master Berthelet to order; and meanwhile, he would inquire of Master Dwen-ger what steps, if any, had been taken at the Vatican in relation to the Minims’ new skating rink-.
Master Dwenger cautiously replied that he was not permitted to tell all that he knew in regard to the intentions of the Holy Father. Perhaps some persons, with whom they daily associated, were reserved in petto, and perhaps they were not. It was not for him to say. But in regard to the skating rink, he had opened correspondence with Cardinal Buonamici and several of the Auditors of the Rota, and he had m doubt that the business would be satisfactorily concluded berore the first of April next.
The Chairman thought that that would be too late to get any ice.
Master J. J. McGrath rep’ied, with a knowing smile, that perhaps it would not. It is generally understood that Master McGrath has influence at the North Pole. The meeting was suddenly dissolved on the appearance of lunch, and adjourned sine die.
A Zoological Excursion.
Thursday the 15th, being a day of unusual atmospheric placidity, the Zoology Class concluded to sally forth in quest of specimens, taking with them an escort of experienced gunners, warranted to shoot anything on sight. The necessary passports having been obtained, they first proceeded to examine a field to the north of St. Joseph’s Lake, where a member of the Faculty was said once to have seen a snipe (Gallinago Wilsonii), but on this occasion the locality appeared to be quite deserted by the whole family of Scolopacidae. A hen-hawk {Butes borealis), engaged the attention of the gunners, but managed to keep out of reach of their weapons. Beyond the ordinary snowbunting {Plectrophanes nivalis), nothing else of interest was found here, and the party entered the woods still further north, bordering on the famed water-course known in the Golden Age at Notre Dame as Cottin’s Creek, while on the County Map it appears as Sheffield’s and in the records of the M. C. R. R. as Ullery’s Creek. Here, that solitary bird the Ruffed Grouse {Bonasa UmbeUus), called “ partridge ” in Virginia and Kentucky, and “ pheasant ” in our own State, was startled from his cwert, but not secured, owing to some misunderstanding between the gunners and their guns. A delegation was then appointed to secureffiinner at one of the neighboring farms, which, after two futile attempts, was eminently successful, and the party again met at the sluice gates of the mill-dam where the creek aforesaid joins the St. Joseph River. The water being higher than had been ever remembered before, a boat ■vyas found necessary to effect the crossing of the mill-stream.
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
This exploit having been successfully performed, the party proceeded to dinner, which was enlivened by ingenious methods of securing supplementary pieces of pie. Then followed a mathematical discussion of the peculiarities of the number 18, which being halved and squared, presents itself again with digits reversed. The party concluded to square it. They then proceeded on their march, crossing the river by “ Proctor’s Bridge,” and subsequently securing fine specimens of Mdanerpes erytJirocephalus and Sitta Carolinensis, both remarkable for their curious development of tongue. Passing westward through fields and woods, towards Portage Prairie, they at length reached the Buchanan road, and turned their steps again northwards, leaving Indiana, and ascending the green hills of Michigan, from which extensive views of scenery are commanded. Descending one of these hills, the gunners being attracted by the charming vistas that stretched away in every direction, a fine specimen of Lepus Sylvaticus darted from his retreat, running down hill with great swiftness. He owed his ultimate escape, no doubt, to the preoccupation of the gunners. The party now neared the vicinity of the ancient city of Bertrand, once the Metropolis of these regions. The bridge which formerly spanned the river here, having been carried away by the floods of last February, it was concluded to cross it in boats, the party separating for that purpose. Two beautiful specimens of the SpizeUa monticola were secured after crossing the river, and the party again met in the streets of Bertrand, beneath the frowning battlements and castellated turrets of the De Clafli family. A trained animal, the Ingenius locomotivus, was seen approaching in the distance. This creature is remarkable for the peculiarities of its digestive and respiratory organs, consuming vast quantities of solid ligneous matters, and exhaling immense volumes of carbon. Professor Agassiz is said to have found traces of iron in the analysis of its tissues. Be this as it may, it has been sufficiently domesticated to be rendered serviceable for purposes of draft, and this one was engaged in drawing several coaches in the direction of Notre Dame, upon one of which the party secured the privilege of riding for a small compensation. The shades of evening were falling as they again reached the classic limits, and they again separated to prepare their specimens for class discussion. So ended a very satisfactory excursion.
Dederna D’Ornail.
Local Items.
—“A MERRY CHRISTMAS and HAPPY NEW YEAR to All! ”
—A Merry Christmas to each one on the light-hearted, happy Minims !
—The 24th Annual Exercises of the St. Cecilia Society gave universal satisfaction.
—The St. Cecilians return thanks to Profs. Edward, Paul and Ackerman for favors received.
—The St. Cecilia programme was very tastefully printed. It was one of the nicest we have ever seen.
—The St. Cecilians and Philopatrians had a grand reunion in Washington Hall, Monday, Dec 19th.
—Prof. Lvons has given Mr. Smith an order for an oil portrait of Very Rev. Father Granger, first Vice-President of Notre Dame.
■ —Prof. Gregori has nearly finished his large portrait of Christopher Columbus, which is to grace the vestibule of the main building.
—Twenty Minimshave gone home to spend the Christmas holidays, but the forty-three remaining here are able to make the place lively.
—Our artists have prepared a very beautiful representa-j tion of the stable of Bethlehem for the Church of Our j Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—The Preps, are under lasting obligations to Rev. Father Hudson for the large bundle of papers and magazines he sends them every week.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association return thanks to Messrs. Graham, Haithusen, Roberts, Snee, and Palmer for donations of-bonks and periodicals.
—Masters J. Ruppe, C. Murdock and J. Heffernan deserve credit for the manner in which they acquitted themselves as Censors at the 24th Entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
—Prof. Paul, of the Academy of Music, has the thanks of the students for the many favors he has conferred on them since the first of September. The Professor is one of the most accommodating and energetic of men.
—At the 15th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Phil-opatrian Society, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered De Witt Smith, of Adrian, Michigan, for a magnificent ffite champfitre enjoyed by them a few days ago.
—The Minims who are going home to spend Christmas are resolved to strain every7 nerve in order to bring back twelve Minims which, with their present number, will make the 75, to which number Very Rev. Father General’s Parisian dinner is promised.
—Very Rev. Father General and Rev. Father Walsh took dinner with the Minims in .their new refectory last Tue=-day. After dinner Father General distributed some handsome prizes to those who had the be=t record for lessons, duties and conduct since last September.
—At the 16th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, helo the 18th of Dec., a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Rev. President Walsh, Piofs. Edwards, Stace, Paul, Bros. Leander and Simon for favors extended to them on the occasion of their 24th annual holiday exercises.
—The Sorin Cadets had a very interesting drill Tuesday. A number of spectators witnessed the graceful performance. The Drill-Master, though prec’se and exacting, expresses himself very much pleased with the Sorin Cadets who, he says, are neither so stiff necked or stiff-limbed as the Notre Dame Cadets.
—The Columbian reunion in Washington Hail, last week, was one of the pleasantest social entertainments we have attended since we entered college. Among the distinguished guests present were the Rev. President and Vice President of the University, Signor Gregori, and several other members of the Faculty.
—The following names were omitted from the List of Excellence last week: Book-keeping—Jas Conway, J. J. Flynn, C. Kolars, A. Kuntsman, R. French, Del. Saviers, C. Fishburne, J. Zettler, E. Blackman, G. McErlain, C. Pierson, D. Corry, P. McGinne5, J. Drury, W. Comerford, J. Kindle, E. Bryant, C. C. Echlin.
—The 17th regular meeting of the S’. Cecilia Association took place on Friday Dec. 16th. Master H. P. Porter, was unanimously elected to membership. Public readers for the coming week and the holidays are: C. Rose, E. Fishel, J. Guthrie, J. Grevcr, A Browpe, W. Mahon, C. Kolars, A. Coghlin, C. F. Porter, T. Hurley, J. Heffernan, G. Castanedo, C. C. Echlin, W. Johnston, W. McCarthy, J. Ruppe, G. Schaefer, N. Ewing, P. Hoffman, F Johnson and J. M. Kelly. Thanks were tendered to C. Tinley, for performing his duties so well as prompter at the last exhibition.
—The Pennsylvania Company sends a Christmas and New Year greeting to its many patrons and the general public, with the information that cheap excursion tickets will be sold from and to all stations on its railways. December 23d, 24, and 25th, and December 30th and 31st, 1881, and January 1st, 1882, good to return until January 3d, 1882, inclusive. For time-tables and information, call on or address any agent of the Pennsylvania Company’s Lines. This will be an excellent opportunity to spend the
I
I
I
I
I'HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	241
Christmas Holidays with relatives and friends in adjoining towns or visit principal places of interest.
—The different classses of the Minim department were thoroughly examined ’ by Rev. President Walsh, last Saturday. Very Rev. Father General was invited to be present at the examination, but he was unexpectedly called away and sent word that he regretted he could not be present. In the course of the examination Father Walsh repeatedly told the Minims that he was very much pleased with the marked progress they had made during the four months they have been at the College, he also expressed his regret that Very Rev. Father General was not present to see what bright, intelligent boys his Minims were.
—The eleventh regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Wedensday, Dec. 21st. Declamations were given by the following members: Masters WilliamT. Bertfaelet. “Before Vicksburg’; Ryan Devereux, “ Light Brigade”; Edward P. Nash, “Casa-bianca,’ ; Willie Devine, “ Bingen on the Rhine ” ; Joseph A. Frain, “ Angels of Buena Vista" ; Paul P. John-, son, “ St. Agnes ” ; Charles H. McGordon, “ Lament of Mary Queen of Scotts”; Michael E. Devitt, “The Parrot"; A composition on the “ Minims’ New refectory ” was read by Master Rene Papin; Master Thomas Ellis read “ A Description of Colorado.” Compositions were assigned to several members. Certain important points were discussed, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Thespian Society was held on Dec. 17th; there was a full attendance. Orations, declamations and readings composed the programme. The oration of the evening was delivered by G. E. Clarke. Subject, “Liberty.” He dwelt most forcibly upon the wrongs inflicted by England on Ireland. The members have heard Mr. Clarke quite often on different subjects, but on this occasion he surpassed all their expectations by his keen sarcasm, ready eloquence and pleas ing gesture. Mr. E. Orrick presented, in a masterly manner, the 2d Act from the drama of Julius Caesar. Mr. M. Healy followed in a scene from Richard III, which he rendered with great elocutionary ability. Mr. J. P. O’Neill, “Editor’s Guests," was excellently given. Mr. W. Cleary gave a comic selection. W. McEniry’s “ Sword Presentation ” was forcibly drawn. The other speakers were Messrs. W. S. Bolton, M. Burns, F. Grever, T. F. Clarke, W. Arnold, D. Danahy and A. F. Zahm. An animated debate on credentials then took place, which was most amicably adjusted.
—The Pennsylvania Company has issued an advertisement announcing Christmas excursions between all stations on its vast system of railways. The hand-bill is embellished with a winter scene in the foreground of which appears a conspicious figure of Santa Claus standing in a sleigh attached to a locomotive, which he is driving, and under which is this legend: “ Old Kris-Kingle has adopted modern locomotion and takes the Fort Wayne Route,” Apropos of this effort to dispel the fondly- cherished, but old logy notion that reindeer continue to surpass in speed the steel-track flyers on the “ shortest routes.” A popular rhyme has been paraphrased as follows:
He was jolly and merry through all his work, The stockings filled, he turned with a jerk, And laying his finger aside of his nose, And giving a nod up the chimney he rose.
He sprang to his sleigh, to his deer gave a whistle, And away they all flew like the down of a thistle; But I heard him exclaim ere he drove out of sight, “A Merry Christmas to All, to all Good Night.”
Then raising his voice he cried with a shout,
“ Whenever you travel, take the Fort Wat ne Route! ”
The Pennsylvania Company always takes the lead in catering to the wants of the travelling public, and the Holiday Excursions will undoubtedly be liberally patronized. Excursion tickets will be sold to and from all stations on December 23d, 24lh and 25th, and December 30th and 31st, 1881, and January 1st, 1882. All tickets good for return passage until January 3d, 1882. Apply to agents for time-tables, tickets and general information.
—Wednesday evening, the 14th inst., Rev. Father Zahm gave his long-looked for art entertainment. To say that it
was greatly enjoyed by all, old and young,—that the hour and a half spent in the hall seemed like only half an hour —is to say that it was excellent in every respect, and fully met the expectations of every one present. Indeed we do not remember ever to have attended an art exhibition of the kind, and we have seen many, in which the views given were more select, or shown with better effect; and then the variety was so great as to make the entertainment doubly interesting. There were views of noted edifices in various parts of the world, views in Egypt, Syria, Greece, Italy, Germany, Holland, France, England, Scotland, Ireland and America; there were also views of masterpieces of sculpture which came out on the screen with astonishing relief, having all the appearance of solid marble itself, views of interesting objects of natural history, transparencies of comic subjects, etc., etc. Besides the views, of which Father Zahm has an unusually choice collection, having selected them with special care from the large stock of the famous photographer Levi of Paris, the apparatus used was of the most improved construction and designed to produce the most perfect stereoscopic effect. In looking at the treasures of the art galleries of Europe, and of the Paris Exposition, projected on the screen, one had little difficulty in believing the Rev. lecturer, when he stated that the views thus given were almost as perfect in every respect as the originals from which they were transferred by the photographer’s art. We used to think that we should like to travel for the sake of sight-seeing, but if we * had Father Zahm’s stereopticon, and his superb collection of views, we should prefer to sit in our easy chair and enjoy the beautiful things of nature and art .with less annoyance and fatigue than travelling entails. We trust Father Zahm will soon favor us with another of his interesting entertainments. If the applause he received the other night, and the pleasure he afforded all present can influence him in any way, we are sure of another treat at an early day.
—The Twenty-Fourth Annual Christmas Holiday Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, University of Notre Dame, Indiana, took place on Saturday, Dec. 17,1881. at 4 30 p. m. The programme was as follows:
PART FIRST.
Bon Ten Regiment Quickstep, (A. M. Schacht.) N. D. U. C. B. Grand Duchess Waltz, (F. Musgravi)...University Orchestra Duett—“ Waterfall ”...................... . j L. F. Florman
■	I C. C. Echlin
Oration of the Day..........................JEd.	Fischel
Solo—Welcome, Pretty Primrose................L. Florman
Prologue........................................C.	Rose
Pot pourri— Gems de L' Opera, (E. Brooks)..N. D. U. C. B.
PART SECOND.	-
THE MISER. (A Comedy in Three Acts—Translated and adapted from the ■	French of Molidre.)
Dramtis Persona.
Harpagon—Father of Cleonte and Polyandre,.. .W. H. Johnston Cleon te..................................G. J. Rhodius
Polyandre.............*......................J. F. Grever
Lapierre...................-..............J.	W. Guthrie
Anselm.......................................Ed Fischel
Maitre Jacqies—Cook and Coach-) man to Harpagon,	>•	G. Castanedo
Lafleche—Valet to Cleonte....................T. Hurley
Orontes—Citizen, Neighbor to 1
Harpagon, .	>-	J. Heffernan
Orville—A Commissary.........................A Browne
Lamerluche, 1	W. Coghlin
Brindavoine, > Attendants ■	J. M. Kelly
Antoine, J	C. Kolars
Song—(Siedler).............;..............■-	.G. Schaefer
PART THIRD.
THE VIRGINIAN.
A Comedy in One Act.
Original Virginian...........................C. Porter
Capt. Rifle..................................G. Rhodins
Dr. Galen....................................C. Kolars
242
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
O’Leary..............................•...I..A. Coghlin
Charles.....................................  C.	Echini
Lucius......................................G. Schaefer
Old reliable, (a Schoolmaster)..............S. Murdock
Mr. Patent..................................W. Coghlin
Cadaver Conditum	Secundum.................P. Hoffman
Epilogue......................................W. Mahon
Closing Remarks. Music, (Merry Christmas)..................N. D. U. C. B.
Ushers.
G. Rhodius,	C. Rose,	E. Fishcel,
G. Castanedo,	J. W. Guthrie,	C. Murdock,
J. Heffernan,	A. Coghlin,	J. Grever,
C. Echlin, . C. Porter,	W. Mahon,
J. H. Fendrick,	A. Browne,	G. Schaefer,
F. R. Johnson.
Committee of Arrangements.
T. Hurley,	N. H. Ewing,	W. H. Johnston,
S. Murdock,	D. Saviers,	W. Coghlin,
W. H. McCarty, J. Ruppe,	J. Kelly,
C. Kolars,	P.	Hoffman,	H. Sells,	.
H. Porter.
RoH of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, M. D. Anthony, J. C. Armijo, E. Blackman, F. M. Barron, W. H. Bailey, E. 0. Bryant, W. I. Browne, W. B. Berry, F. M. Bell, R. Becerra, J. Barry, T. Cullen, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, M; J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, W. A Connor, W. S. Cleary, C.'E. Cripe, G. Clarke, N. Commerford, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy, B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, J. Farrell, R. E. Fleming, T. F. Flynn, C. L. Fishburne, H. A Grambling, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. H. Grever, M. F. Healy, A. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, D. Kavanaugh, M.. Livingston, H. Letterhos, J. C. Larkin, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, W. B. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, T. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, S. 8. Perley, L. Proctor. J. P. Pfiefer, F. Quinn, E. Ryan, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, W. E. Smith, P. Shickey, H. Steis, A. C. Schiml, G. 8. Tracey, I. Treon, 8. B. Terry, C. B. Van Duzen, W. Vander Heyden.F. Wheatly,F. Ward, J. A. Weber, F. S. Weber, J. A White, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, A. F. Zahm, W. OConnor.
’	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. W. Ayers, A. A. Browne, W. J. Byrne, W. F. Bacon, E. Bailey, W. H. Barron, A. Brewster, G. B. Buchanan, B. B. Baca, G. L. Castillo, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, G. Cassell, A. M. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, A. M. Chirhart, C. Devoto, J. A Devine, G. L. Deschamp, M. Dolan. H. F. Devitt, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, E. F. Fenlon, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, W. Dare, R. French, F. C. Felix, J. Friedman, J. N. Flynn, H. Fisher, F. B. Farrelly, M. L. Foote,'H. G. Foote, L. G. Gibert, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach. J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, J. Halligan, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbler, T. J. Hurley, G. Haslam, W. T. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, W. E. Jeannot, J. P. Jones, W. H. Johnston, O. Kempf, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, 8. Katz, 8. Lipman, F. C. Lund, J. Livingston, J. T. McGordon, H. M. Metz, W. G. Muhike, T. E. McGrath, J. 8. McGrath, F. X. McPhillips, C. F. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy, 8. T. Murdock, W. P. Mahon, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell; J. V. O’Donnell, F. Grainger, W. 0. Pinkstaff, J. M. Powell, • H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter,.T. C. Ryan, F. T.Ryan, S. Rosenheim, A L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, H. C. Snee, G. H. Schaefer, H. G. Sells, E. J. Schmitt, D. G. Stuber, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Turtillotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, A. J. Vernier, J. A. Warner, C. C. Warner, A. J. Wendell, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, W. Warren, P. J Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. P. Dillon, E. P. Nash W. T. Berthelet, D. A O'Connor, J. H. Dwenger, W. J. Miller, D. L. McCawley, C. H. McGordon, B. B Powell, Ryan Devereux, J. J. McGrath, F. I. Otis, T. Norfolk, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, D. A. Piatt, J. A. Kelly, A J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, J. A. Frain, W. P. Devine, R. V.Papin, G. V. Gibson, P. P. Johnson, T. Ellis, J. S. Chaves, E. A Thomas,
J. S. Beall, C. D. Brandon, M. E. Devitt, C. Metz, W. Prindi-ville, D. Prindiville, L. J. Young, F. S. Scott W. Welch, W. Walsh, F. S. Whitney, F. J. Coad, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, V. A. Rebori, J. L. Rose, H. C. D;rksmeyer, J. Tong, P. S. Gibson, H. Hynes, C. Quinlan, A. J. Otis, G. King, E. A. Adams, T. E. Curran, W. M. Masi, H. J. Ackerman, M. T. Bvrne, E. 8. Chirhart, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, L. P. Graham, A. P. Roberts, C. Young, G. Price, F. J. Otis.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. Browne, E. Otis, E. Orrick, W. Arnold, J. N. Osher, W. Gray, J. Solon, F. Bell, A. Zahm, W. Schofield, F. E. Kuhn, E. McGorrisk, W. McGorrisk, M. Healy, T. D. Healy, C. McDermott, R. Fleming, J. McIntyre, W. McCarthy, T. Clarke, F Gallagher, W. O’Connor, W. Bailey, J. Walsh, T. Flynn, J. M. Falvey, S. Proctor, W. Cleary, R. Anderson, D. Danahey, S. P. Terry, G. Clarke, N. Ewing.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthelet, J. H. Dwenger, D. A. O’Connor, Ryan Devereux, D. Piatt, E. Nash, D. McCawley, C. MeGordon, W. Miller J. Nester, F. Nester, W. Prindiville, L. Young, C. Metz, P. Johnson, J. Kelly, A. Kelly, F. Otis, W. Devine, R. Papin, P. Gibson, T. Norfolk, M. E. Devitt W. Welch, W. Walsh, T. Ellis, O. P. Dillon, J. Frain, J. McGrath, J. S. Chaves. C. Campau, J. L. Rose, F. Whitney, C. Brandon, F. Coad, V. Rebori, H. Dirksmeyer, J. T. Kelly, E. Thomas, J. Beall, E. Chirhart H. J. Ackerman, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, D. Prindiville, M. Byrne, L. P. Graham, A. Roberts, B. Powell. H. Hynes, A. Otis, P. Gibson, J. Tong, W. Masi, C. Quinlan, E. Adams, G. Price, F. Scott, C. Campau, G. King.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
CGLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—J. Browne, J. McIntyre, W. McCarthy, N. Ewing, E. Otis, F. McPhillips, R. Fleming, T. Healy, F. Murphy; Greek— N. Ewing, F. Quinn, A. Zahm ; Moral Philosophy—W. Bailey, W, O'Connor, F. Quinn, A. Zahm, E.Orrick; English Composition, W. Cleary, J. Zettler, J. Farrell, A. Jackson; Rhetoric— F. Kuhn; English Literature—J. McIntyre, N. Ewing; Criticism—F. Quinn; Algebra—F.Dever; Geometry—W. Bailey, H. Porter, W. Johnson; Trigonometry—F. Bell, N. Ewing; Calculus—T. Healy, J. Osher; Mechanics—E. Orrick, W. McGorrisk; Astronomy----: Physiology-; Botany—M. Healy, T. Flynn, A. Zahm; Zoology—E. Otis, J. McIntyre; Physics --------------------------------; Chemistry-; History-.

One If He West of Notre Name University.
—The motto over the scenes when the Play “ New Arts” was performed by the young ladies was,
“ The dew drops mirror heaven’s fair light, And faultless manners grace divine.”
—On Friday, at five o’clock p. m., in the Junior’s recreation-room a very enjoyable little entertainment was given before kind friends who were much pleased with the good taste displayed. The tableaux were pronounced beautiful. Madame Gregori and daughter, Mrs. Col. Otis and Mrs. Chaves, honored the Juniors with their presence. The Misses Clara Ginz, Mamie Morgan, M. Rogers, A. Martin, C. Patterson, G. O’Neill, 0. Lancaster, E. Papin, L. Hene-berry, M. Otis, M. Paquette, A. Eager, C. Richmond, M. Chaves, M. Otero, took active parts. A very pretty duett was sung by Misses M. and C. Ducey.	'
THE NOTEE DAJtE SCHOLASTIC • -	243
H3S*S"
—We ire called upon to deplore the dangerous illness of one of St. Mary’s oldest, warmest and truest friends: Mrs. M. M. Phelan, the venerable mother of the late Pather H. N. Gillespie C. S. 0., of Mother Superior and of Mrs. Judge Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio. On'Wednesday she was attacked with pneumonia, and her extreme old age, as she has passed the three score and ten years allotted to man, gives cause for the strongest apprehensions. Her wide circle of devoted friends, all over the world, we may say, will feel keenly the sad loss which is impending. Of her with utmost sincerity we may declare,
“None knew her but to love her,
• None named her but to praise.”-
The poor, the friendless and the afflicted, will lose in her a never failing-friend. May it be the holy will of God that this great affliction be averted.
—At the regular Academic reunion reading, “ Rosa Mystica.” Editresses: the Misses Ellen Galen, Annie Cave-nor and Catherine Glaffey. At the close, Very Rev. Father General, commended the paper, and the reading, and took the occasion to offer some words of advice to the pupils who contemplate spending the Christmis holidays at their homes. He recommended them to prove their gratitude to their parents, by seeking every means to show that the advantages here afforded had been faithfully improved; that the money expended had not been thrown away upon them, and this could be best proved by their affectionate devotedness and obedience during their short stay with them.
Excellent Stereoscopic Views.
On Thursday evening, Rev. Father Zahm of the University gave a very useful as well as pleasing entertainment in the form of stereoscopic views. Very Rev. Father General, and the Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier were present. The exhibitor conveyed his audience, literally, on the wings of light, from Washington City past two splendid views of the Capitol, the Treasury Buildings, White House and Patent Office, to New York City. There he paused with them for a moment before the fine post-office of that great metropolis. Thence, they were swiftly conducted to the Quaker City and sat down for a moment before the empty Centennial building; then they were treated to views of articles on exhibition in different departments as they were shown at the exposition in 1876, these vivid pictures, annihilating time as well asspace.
Next, to render the beholders grateful for the progress of modern mechanical arts, two locomotives were exhibited : one, a clumsy piece of machinery made in the year 1835; the other, a light, graceful steam engine, manufactured in 1866. In another instant, without the trouble of embarking, the observers found themselves on the other side of the Atlantic, in the very heart of the European Continent, where they were afforded fourteen admirable Alpine views, including Mt. Blanc, (“The Monarch of Moun-’ tains;”) the Jungfrau; St. Bernard’s convent; the castle of Cbillon; Geneva, and Lucerne.
To change the bill of mental fare, magnified specimens from natural history were brought in. To amuse, by way of contrast, two baby-faces one bland and pleasant, the other ruffled by a cry that was all but audible, were pre sented.
Next the spectator was in London before Windsor castle; in a moment more at Balmoral Castle, far away in Scotland. Then the audience were brought back to St. Mary’s, and
views of the Academy, Convent and House of Loretto, were successively presented. At this point an excellent portrait of Very Rev. Father General was placed upon the screen, and, of course, was greeted with hearty applause.
Starting afresh, the spectators passed once more over the Atlantic to Ireland, where they enjoyed views of the far-famed Lakes of Killarney, of Dublin, and of Nelson’s Pillar; '	■= ’’	-
A. panorama’ of Paris, embracing twenty-three or more pictures, followed. There were the H6tel-de-Ville, Grand Opera House,. Fountain de Medici, Cathedral of Notre Dame (exterior and interior), and many other noted places, besides statues and selections from the Paris exposition.	’
Back again to our native land, all rested on the peaceful shores of Lake Saratoga and Lake George. The matchless Falls of Niagara were before us in several representations; then, swift as thought, we were in the mountains of the far West. The Yosemite Valley, the triple mountain, the Three Brothers, and Mirror Lake were presented in all their huge grandeur.
Now was presented Rome, its St. Peter’s and other wonderful temples; the ruins of Pompei and of Balbec. Beautiful statuary, among which was the master-piece of Michael Angelo, “ Moses destroying the tables of the law.” Mosques and Christian Cathedrals; the River Rhine, and the Falls of Minehaha; scenes, representing the “ transition period ” of Geology, and the “ coal period,” were given, and everyone present left the hall that evening, convinced that they had been afforded an opportunity of learning much that will prove valuable to them in the future.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Charm of Modesty.
A thousand charms are sought in the social world, and to acquire accomplishments is regarded by the majority as the crowning object cf a finished education. Why is this? Because the blossom discloses the nature of the plant. Accomplishments, the flowers of culture, carry with them their charms, nor is it vanity to desire them, for their uses are manifold.
A certain secret longing to command the esteem of others invests the character of him who is an adept in one or more of the arts, for they were given not to debase but to ennoble nature.
The gifts received from God, the treasures of mind, strengthened and improved by cultivation, draw hearts to the possessor, and on account of them he is respected and beloved.
We should ever seek to render ourselves pleasing to those around us, for if our hearts be true, which is pre supposed, we may thereby lead our associates to God, and viewed in this light charms are both laudably and lawfully desirable.
The musician, the poet, the painter, each has, a peculiar fascination to which the souls of men respond. The liberation of Saul by the harp of David, from the evil power which enchained him, proves the irresistible power
244	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of harmonious strains; and from .that day to the present, music has not ceased to soothe, refresh and invigorate the troubled and the weary.
Strong, indeed, was the affection which even the highest in the land bestowed upon the great -Raphael. When the Holy Father sent to inquire after his health on that sad Good Friday,
“ His last on earth, the first with his dear angels.” and which was alike the anniversary' of his birth and the day of his death, the messenger bore these memorable words from the Pope: “ Tell Raphael ■ that Rome will not be Rome without him.” The dying painter-exclaimed, with the prophetic instinct of genius: “ Rome shall never be without me.”
We know how universal the homage accorded to this great artist, and how enduring the sway he exerts over the minds of men. The same may be said of numberless others who have worn the Imperial crown of genius and who have wielded its sceptre to render mankind wiser and better. *
But other charms there are, more hidden, perhaps, and less sought after, yet, still more powerful than even those of art, because more closely interwoven with the very life of the soul. They are the charms and ornaments of virtue: as mildness, truthfulness, courage, and the like; each bears a winning grace, but the charms of modesty exceed them all.
This trait may be compared to a golden cord running through the pearly chain of the virtues, and binding them in graceful unity. Break this mystic cord, and the pearls are scattered and lost. ”
Modesty, the mirror of peace and holy recollection, finds a fitting symbol in the sweet but simple violet that loves the quiet peaceful dell, and shuns the glare of mid-day.
Modesty is to merit what shade is to a fine picture: it reveals and enhances each beautiful feature, and well does this trait become the brow of youth. There it stands as the seal of purity, and its guileless candor and winning reserve form a heavenly body-guard to ward off every threatened danger. To the bearing it imparts a grace that seems not of the earth, and times the very walk to the footfalls of the angels. Its gentlcsweetness invites the protection of Heaven and has won victories beyond the power of human ingenuity and even of human bravery, as in the case of Esther before Assuerus, and in that of Joan of Arc leading an army against her nation’s foe.
Modesty may not always cast a visibly dazzling veil of silvery brightness around the youthful form; as it did around the youthful St. Agnes, but it will never fail to prove the most effectual guard of innocence and the holiest shield of virtue.
Roll of Honor.
FOB POLITESESS, NBATNBSS, AMIABILITY, AND COBBECT DE-
F0BTMENT.
SENIOB DEPABTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, 8. Hanbury, L. Pool, 8. Walsh, M. Clark, A Dillon, M. Feehan, L. Fox, C. Bland, M. Beal, M. Campbell, E. Chrisehellls, C. Donnelly, L. French, R. Fishburne, J. Heneberry, L. Lancaster, A. Nash. A Price, A. Rasche, M. Simms, E. Shickey, M. Tanner, H. Van Patten, K. Wall, J. Barlow E. Call, M. Call,L. Coryell, N. Hackett, N. McGordon, A. Mowry, Ml Price, C. Pease, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, A Rulison, E. -Thompson, G. -Taylor, M. Wolfe L. English, K. Fenloh, M. Flemming, M. Metzger, K. Mulligan,
M. Newton, M. H. Ryan, M. Reutlinger, A. Watson, L. Wagner, M. Behler, B. English, A. Gavan, M. Green, H. Hicks, M. Mulvey, I Smith, M. Eldridge, A. Ives. 2d Tablet—Misses Mary Price, A. Waters. E. Wright, L. Williams, N. Hicks E. Todd, A. Glennon,, E. Nash, Maud Price, M. A Ryan, M. Casey. E. McCoy, 8. Papin, C. Rosing, J. Reilly, M. Richardson, A. McGordon.
JUNJOE DEPABTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, J. Spangler, 8. Semmes, M. Ducey, A. Eager, A. Clark, M. Chir-hart, E. Consdine, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, C. Ducey, L. Heneberry, M. Rogers, M. Morgan, G. O’Neill, M. Paquette, F. Robertson, A. Watrous, W. Mosher, P. Ewing, J. Krick, J. McGrath, M. Coyne, M. Chaves, M. Otero, C. Richmond, L. Robertson, M. Schmidt, D. Best, 8. King, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet— Misses M. Thomann, A. Martin, C. Patterson, I. Hackett, E.. Papin, E. Welch, A. Wright, M. Wilkins,
MINIM DEPABTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses N. Brown, E. Rigney, T. Haney, H. Castancdo, J. McGrath,M. Otis, M. Paul. 2d Tablet—S. Cam-pau, E. Mattis, A. Sawyer, E. Burtis.
List of Excellence.
[The following young ladies mentioned are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named according to the competitions held during the month.]
ACADEMIC COURSE.
French—Misses Edith Call, Maud Price, Lewis, Richmond; Geometry—Misses Clark, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley; Chemistry—Misses Edith Call, Campbell, Fendrick, French, Glennon, Lancaster, McKenna, A. Price, Maud Price, Ryan, Rasche, Simms, Slattery, Thompson, Todd, Wall, Wolfe; Philosophy— Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. Call, Etta Call, Coryell, Casey, English, M. Fishburne, R. Fishburne, Ginz, Hackett, Keenan, Legnard, Leyden, McCoy, Owens, Price, Papin, Pease, M. Richardson, A.Riehardson,V. Reilly, Semmes, Spanlger, Taylor, Waters ; Rhetoric—Misses Etta Call, Chrischellis, M. Campbell, K. Campbell, R. Fishburne, Fendrick, French, Glennon, Lancaster, McKenna, M. Price, A. Price, Rasche, Ryan, Simms, Shickey, Wall, Wolfe, Casey, Keenan, A McGordon, Pease, Mary Price, J. Reilly, N. Thompson; Grammar—Misses Casey, Legnard-Keenan, J. Reilly, Thompson, Waters; Botany—Misses Call, M. Campbel], K. Campbell, French, Fendrick,- R; Fishburne,- Lancaster, Ave Price, Rasche, M. Simms, Shickey, Wall; Arithmetic-Misses Ducey, Davenport, Eager, English, Fenlon, Metz, gar. Mulligan, Newton, Reutlinger, Ryan, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, M. Thomann.	.	,
The Scholastic Annual
For 1882.
OOJSTTEUSTTS.
Astronomical Calculations—Astrological Predictions— A Man (Poetry), T. E. Howard, A. M.—Abstinence Days —A Revision (Poetry), Mrs. Margaret F. Sullivan—Ballad of the Ute and the Crafty Cook (Poetry), A. J. S.—Calendars—The Church and Science, J. A. Z —Eclipses,—Evidences of the Stability of the Church, Right Rev. Bishop Ryan—Fasting Days—A Tribute to President Garfield, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.—Holy Days of Obligation— “The Lion of the Fold of Juda,”—Castel Rock—Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, The Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. 8. C.—Movable Feasts—Nuevo Mejico (Sonnet), Eliot Ryder—Notre Dame as Seen from the St. Joseph River (Poetry), Eliza Allen Starr—The Patron of Popular Education, William J. Onahan, LL. D.—Rates of Postage— The Spire of Candibec, Minot Ledge—The Strawberry Festival (Poetry), Arthur J. Stace, A. M—St. Cecilia’s Bridal, (Sonnet), Ethel Tane—Winged Words.
Price, 35 cents, j>ost free.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.