DINNER DANCE in Grand Ballroom, Saturday evening after the game. For reservations telephone 3-7171.
future officers of the
HELLO!
U. S. NAVY

WELCOME to the Notre Dame Campus and South Bend
-f
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently, served.

We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious victories will accrue to the LJ. S. NAVY.
OLIVER COFFEE SHOP
OLIVER EMERALD ROOM
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc
Corner Washington and Main Streets
o-.-
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
HORRORS OF WAR DEPT.
Mary had a little lamb;
Its fleece was khaki brown.
Rut everywhere that Mary went , Her lamb could not be found.
< ’ For Mary’s lamb was kinda stuck,
He couldn’t get a pass;
He spent his time in writing notes
To his adoring lass.
^z> And this went on for weeks and weeks, Till Mary got quite fed.
She wrote a note to her sweet lamb,
And this is what she said :
A
“Oh, Mary had a little lamb
Whose heart she so preferred;
_ 4 But she couldn’t wait and quickly wed A wolf who’s been deferred.”
-	—The Tower
" HEAD OF THE WEEK
“Woods of College Are Stop-Off for Birds.”
Marygrove Watch Tower
One of the Touhy Gang hide-outs, we suppose. Nice work if you can get it.
WATER HAZARD
In the cistern little Willie - v -Pushed his little sister Lily.
Mother couldn’t find her- daughter;
Now we sterilize our water.
—The Prospector
CAFE SOCIETY
WAAC: Colonel, where do we eat?
Col.: Why, you girls mess with the officers, of course.
WAAC: We knew that—but where do we eat?	—The Or ediff ger
THINGS ARE TOUGH DEPT.
The situation is tense at Boston Uni-* versity. Witness the following ad that appeared in a recent issue of the B.U. Netos.
Dear Girls:
We are afraid of being drafted. The hot breath of the draft boards is on our necks. Of course this war can be won ' quickly if we good men of the business staff of the B.U. Netos are drafted. Paid positions are available for women who
are willing to work on the business-staff of the Netos. Show your loyalty to B.U. by accepting these good paid positions now.
Mournfully,
The Business Staff.
THIS WAY OUT
A freshman believes: Mary is the sweetest little girl in his home town, whom he writes to every day.
A sophomore believes: Mary is the name of the sweetest little girl in his home town.
A junior believes: Mary is the name of a girl in his home town.
A senior believes: Mary is the name of a girl.	—The Record
We believe: Mary is the name of a girl at the Rock. Other specifications unknown ; we’ve met her only once.
♦
WESTWARD, HO
Travelling west across Canada last week were hundreds of college students from Quebec and Ontario, volunteer-workers for the Saskatchewan wheat harvest. Following the request of Humphrey Mitchell, Dominion Minister of Labor, eastern Canadian schools have granted harvest leaves to all students not in courses directly connected with war work.
From Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, has gone the entire class of Arts students, except those training for war work and those physically unfit. Leaves have been granted until November 9, and may be extended to November 15 if necessary. Wages are $4 and up each day worked, and board.
❖
COTILLION MEMO
Mae West uses powder;
Clark Gable uses lather;
My girl friend uses lipstick;
At least, that’s what I gather.
—The Torch
THUMBS UP
Hitch-hiking stations are the latest thing at Northwestern. The boys and the Evanston Police Department were mixing it up a little, so they settled the affair with the establishment of the stations. Goin’ my way?
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mariturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Don Heltzel, Editor
Robert D.	SE....Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey.___________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds____________Sports	Editor
Robert Dunne_____________Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan_____________Promotion
Ted Weber_________________Photo	Editor
Walter Krawiec______________Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGiS-Sta# photographer Gail Fitch, Jr. ____________Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for_ national advertising by National Advertising Service. Ine.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor. 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS	Page
Wildcat Homecoming ....------ 5
Interhall Debate Starts------ 5
Wash Deal Ironed-------------10
ADMINISTRATION
Cannons Donated ....—---------II
Archives History ----------  12
SPORTS
Face Sea hawks_____________  14
lllini Preview_____........—16
Basketeers Prospects____.".---16
FEATURES
College Parade  --------J----- 3
The Week _____________________ 4
Telescope---------------:----- 9
Man About Campus ___^...<--.—.10
Pressbox Splinters _....---——19
Short Shots ..._____i—-------—-21
Strictly Instrumental ________26
3
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
We finally hit our stride.
DEAREST BERTRAND:
I wanted to write you the minute I boarded the train but I ran into the most exasperating sailor. Honest, he was a scream—and I nearly had to. He had the cutest decoration on liis arm. It said, R.O.T.C. He said it stood for wounds Received On The Continent. But back to the,Sophomore Batallion. Oh Bertrand! it was simply the most superfluous dance I ever got locked in on. Your roomie was so sweet too. Why I could hardly tear myself away from him. The band was samooth, but really samooth, what I mean. Do you know what I meaan? Neither do I. I’ll never forget those intoxicating rhythms of Ready Coward. The cokes were real strong too weren’t they? I’m going to ask Bill to get Ready for State’s tea dance next Saturday. Of course State is having the brothers Dorsey for its Cotillion. Oh well. Those were mystery balls we had at that delightful little roadhouse in South Bend weren’t they? What was the name of that place? The Olive or something? Well Berty, I have to beep along cause Ted is booping outside. Isn’t that cute? I thought it up when I was out with Jerry last night. He has such a nice car, and there was such a nice moon. Oh yes, tell your roomie I got his note and that I’m sorry but I won’t be able to make it.
Lonesomely yours, Gerty'
DEAR GERTY:
Beep beep, Boop boop! Braaaaack— braaaaaaaack 1 Spzzzzzzt!
,	Berty
LA DE DA
Praise the Lord and pass the green bananas. ... If a pretty girl is like a melody all the lost chords must be over at the Rock..We told you about the butter taking a walk to say hello to the coffee and the coffee being too weak to answer. Well this week the coffee was too busy washing the dishes._____The good people of South Bend have nothing on us when it comes to blackouts. We have them seven nights a week at 11... Disc - Cussion is Dis - Gustin’._ The
Student Council’s idea- of encouraging-student spirit is handing out cardboard megaphones which, by the way, are swell for stopping a window rattle. We recommend more pep and less talk... . The cheer leaders think the ideal time to lead a cheer is when football scores are being announced over the p.a. system. Another good time to lead a cheer is after one has already started. .. Prize crack came from one of the faculty last week. While watching a few of the imported beauties strut their stuff down the quad, he singled one out and said: “She could go bear hunting with a whip.”. . . Said a St. Mary’s girl in a recent letter to one of our lads: “The Notre Dame line is about as smooth as
But it's two weeks late!!.
-P
a ride in a jeep and just as annoying.” Grrrr.... The sweethearts from S.M. are about as smooth as a five o’clock shadow; and twice as heavy too. .. . The chairman of the pep rallies should remember, before he invites his guest speakers, that most of the boys aren’t old enough to vote.... A big blow for George Bariscillo’s announcing at the Sophomore Cotillion. It was a novelty not to hear the roar of a gravel pit over the local station. . . . Naughty Annette Gruber grabbed herself a nice spot in Spot. We didn’t think the St. Mary’s girls had it in them.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“But I thought the mid - semesters counted only 3%.”


BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
For lowa-Navy tomorrow.
4
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
OCTOBER 16, 1942
No. 4
WILDCAT GAME TO BE "HOMECOMING";
BONFIRE RALLY FOR MICHIGAN FRAY
TOM V. DOUGHERTY
Student Council president Walt Jones O announced this week that the Northwestern game has been chosen as the y annual Homecoming day. Plans for the week-end are as yet in the formative stage, but they will closely parallel those of last year when Southern California was the honored guest. The celebration -<	will begin officially on Friday night,
'	Nov. 20, with a pep rally in the field
house.	•
- Originally the Homecoming was to have been opened by a bon-fire rally, *" but it was decided to have that feature
on the Friday night preceding the Mich-v igan game. In its stead will be an indoor affair that will have the best in the way of entertainment. Chairman ►- Jones has no definite program outlined as yet, but he promises some outstanding talent for the evening.
' The campus residence halls will be dressed up for the occasion in traditional Homecoming fashion. Decorating will be done by various hall committees under the direction of their Student Council representative. A prize in the form of a free smoker- will be awarded
»- the winning hall. It is hoped that this award will stimulate enough interest in the project to surpass the fine mark set
Saturday Night Movies
Tomorrow night Ioan Fontaine suspects George Brent of murder in the movie ’’Suspicion" scheduled for Washington Hall.
Also on the coming attraction list, according to Rev. , Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of Washington Hall entertainment, is ’’Larceny. Inc.” with cartoon and news for October 24, and ’’Bugle Sounds" for October 31.
A sports reel and news will be featured with "Suspicion" tomorrow night.
Dillonites won last year.
Everyone likes a fire.
last fall when every hall on the campus had representative decorations. Dillon Hall won the competition with a large Trojan Horse that was good enough to rate a picture in this fall’s issue of a national football pictorial magazine.
In selecting the Northwestern game for the Homecoming the committee picked a contest that should be one of the high spots of the season. The Wildcats have been long standing rivals of the Irish and will come to Notre Dame stadium ready to- even up last year’s defeat.
Wranglers Begin Annual
Interhall Debate League
The allied post-war policy will feature the clash of the local yes-men and the no-men this year. William Talbot, chairman of the Interhall Debates, announced Friday, Oct. 30 or Monday, Nov. 2 as the tentative date for the beginning of the contests. They will continue in the Law Building every Monday and Friday thereafter during the elimination period.
The Wranglers, who annually sponsor the debates, offer coaches to the disputants, and medals to their victors. Those assigned as hall mentors are: Mark Leis, Alumni; Jim O’Dea, Sorin; Ted Weber, Walsh; Bill Lawless, Cavanaugh; Joe Rud, Dillon; John Shannon, Brownson; John Utz, Breen - Phillips; Bernard O’Hora, Zahm; Jim Newman, assistant chairman, Carroll; and Bob LeMense, St. Edwards.
The coaches will post notices in their respective halls as to time and place of the team tryouts. These will consist of two or three minute speeches followed by extemporaneous talks, and will be held sometime after the quarterlies. Each team will comprise three men, and possibly an alternate. A loss of two discussions disqualifies the group.
The following proposition will be argued: Resolved—that the United Nations should establish a permanent federal union with power to tax: and regulate international commerce, to maintain a police force, to settle international disputes and to enforce such settlements, and to provide for admission of other nations which accept the principles of the union.
The schedule of the debates will be announced later.—F. J. Pequiyney .
There will be no SCHOLASTIC next Friday. The magazine will again appear on Oct. 30. Open dates in the SCHOLASTIC’S publication schedule are a result of the ten issues per warsemester plan.
5
All the Cotillionites Are Happy Now: Sophs Are Mild With Columnist King
The Sophomores provided the Palais Royale with birthday decorations, the Student Council the victory dance, and the football team the Stanford victory; but it took the Scholastic to provide that “final touch” for the Centennial Sophomore Cotillion.
Sophomore dance chairmen had no more than shown their guests to the campus when the Scholastic and a story by a senior music critic clouded their view of the Cotillion plans, for that critic told the Sophomores in blunt language that they “simply didn’t have a band.”
To the Sophomore officers and chairmen it appeared that the Scholastic was undermining the Cotillion in the eyes of the sophs and their guests. To the sophs, as revealed in a sample poll of Dillon Hall, the article was merely the opinion of a columnist concerning the merits of the band signed for the dance. Few of these sophomores attacked the Scholastic for printing the column, apparently seconding the Scholastic’s view of the whole affair; that the column was one man’s opinion.
Indeed the confusion created by the article was more apparent than real. Several of the Sophs when interviewed had neither read nor heard of the article to be able to give an immediate opinion.
General Chairman Jack Leahy said that he felt it Was poor policy on the part of the Scholastic to print the column and* pointed out that Columnist King may be a journalism major but is not a music critic.
Orchestra chairman Dick Murphy said that “One can’t use one man’s opinion to express that of the student body. He’s no critic in the first place.” Arrangement’s chairman Joe Long felt that King apparently had something against Howard and took it out on the sophs.
Bob Scott, a second-floor Dillonite, very logically pointed out that “Nobody should take the criticism too seriously because it is ‘merely in the opinion of the column a case of not having a band.’ ”
Brock Lynch: “No one who honestly calls himself a critic has a fight to malign a professional in the form of adverse publicity.”	.
Don Rigoni: “His ideas were a trifle radical. But it wasn’t a bad band for the price. We could have done a lot worse.”
Denny Aylward: “It (the article) wasn’t a very good thing to show the Cotillion guests. Eddy Howard has a darn good band for dancing.”
Joe Byrne: “I didn’t like all of Howard’s numbers, but I wasn’t disappointed in him. I don’t think he had any right to criticize the band. He should have given Howard and the sophs a break.”
Gene O’Toole: “I wouldn’t say King was talking about Eddy Howard’s band.”
Bob Gantner: “He seems to be misinformed about the whole thing.” *
The decorations, changed last week from the silhouette theme as first announced, featured the 100th birthday theme with a birthday cake entrance to the dance floor as the central decoration.
Howard and his band turned in a performance that apparently pleased all. The Radio Club broadcast, a 25-minute affair, featured Howard, the band, and George Bariscillo, junior from Walsh, as announcer.
The favors, kept secret until the evening of the Cotillion were probably the only really poor feature of the dance. The blue bill-folds with Centennial Cotillion 1842-1942, were at best a poor selection.
The Cotillion, the week-end, and the game are in the past now. Mr. King has retreated into Alumni to write more columns, and sophomores are almost at peace with the world.
Peterson, Billiard Champ, To Perform Wednesday
Charles C. Peterson, the world’s fancy pool shot champion, will give a lectureexhibition including a variety of trick shots and a demonstration of billiard fundamentals next Wednesday, Oct. 21, in the Washington Hall Recreation Room at 4:00 P. M. He will also demonstrate the favorite shots of Hoppe, present 3-cushion champ, and other stars.
This is Mr. Peterson’s eleventh tour of American colleges. He has been try-■ ing to build up a greater interest in bil-• liards in colleges and has been quite successful. The Association of College Unions and the Billiard Association of America are sponsoring Mr. Peterson.
Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C., director of entertainment, announced that there will not be much extra entertainment this fall due to the many football games. However, on Tuesday, Oct. 20, the Chicago Symphony Choir will be represented by fifty voices here. They will start at 8:30 P. M. Under the leadership of Walter Aschenbrenner, the choir has re-, ceived great praise from the critics.
regular meeting
OLLIE HUNTER
Ollie Hunter Elected
Prexy of Monogram Club
The Monogram Club, composed of the major monogram winners, held its first of the semester last Wednesday, Oct. 7. The following officers were elected: Ollie Hunter, president; Wally Ziemba, vicepresident; Bob Neff, secretary, and Owen “Dippy” Evans, treasurer. There are 53 members this year,
33 of them being new.
A committee was chosen to make plans for the initiation of the new members. All the “rough stuff” is to be eliminated according to Ollie Hunter. It is hinted that the new fellows will have to put on a show open to all the students.
A dance is also being planned although; they are -not certain whether it will be a post-football season dance or a Christmas dance.
Each member is to get a blue and gold pin and a scroll at admittance into the club.
Meetings will be held eveiy other Wednesday. All business, new and old, will be taken care of the next meeting. Some sort of penalty will be given to every member who cuts a meeting without a good excuse. “We are going to make the Monogram Club the finest club on the campus,” says President Hunter, “and we cannot do it if the members do not attend the meetings.”
Decent Literature Group Needs More Helpers
The Student Commission for Decent Literature here at the University, which is also the National Commission on Decent Literature of the National Federation of Catholic College Students is in need of help.
During the year the Scholastic is mailed'to the men in service and other requests for religious literature are answered. They also mail various pamphlets and the Chaplain’s Digest to the Catholic Chaplains in the armed forces.
The S.C.O.L. are in need of some new men to help with the program that they are attempting to carry on. The time necessary to help on this matter is about one hour a week. Those interested in this work are asked to contact the chairman of the Commission, Louis Kurtz, 345 Alumni Hall; Jack Terry, 159 Dillon Hall; or the Prefects of Religion.
6
Six Cheerwriting Winners;
Council Changes Awards
A five man board composed of student council seniors announced this week the
STUDENTS WERE GUARDED IN CLASS IN TROUBLED WORLD WAR I DAYS
DON MURPHY
results of the four month old cheerwrit
PAUL TOLAND
ing contest inaugurated last June. The board reported that, due to lack of response from students (only 18 entries were received) it was impossible to name a unanimous winner. Instead of awarding
a $15, a $5, and three $1 prizes as originally announced, the Student Council has decided to award $3 each to the six
students who submitted the best entries.
Winners of the six $3 prizes are Fred Funk, Cavanaugh; Paul Toland, Alumni; Dom Boetto, Walsh; James Cunningham, Walsh; Griff Allen, Cavanaugh, and Harry Mercer, Walsh. Of these, Paul Toland, a senior, and Griff Allen, a junior, are both on the Cheerleading squad. Except for Toland, all the winners are juniors.
Paul Toland’s entry consisted of two
cheers, one called “The IRI,” the other “The Hooray - ray - rah.” Both were looked upon by Cheerleader Joe Tracy as possible future cheers of Notre Dame.
James Cunningham’s idea was judged -rather impractical but drew an award for its originality (at least around Notre Dame). He asserted that our football
season needed more of the feminine
touch, and proceeded to suggest that for each of the five home games this year, we should have a football queen. The queen was to be chosen from photographs submitted by the student body.
The other winners all submitted
cheers, except Fred Funk, who suggested an idea already in practice, namely, having loud speakers at the top of the stands so that the students up there could hear the cheerleaders. Griff Allen submitted a cheer called “The Fight Locomotive,” and Harry Mercer came through with a chant.
Villagers' Victory Dance
The Iowa Pre-Flight Victory dance at the Indiana Club tomorrow night will be open to both Notre Dame students and V-7 Naval trainees. Sponsored by the Villagers Club, bids will be $1.10 for all except naval men. The latter will be admitted for half-price.
Veet Cappello and his “Cavaliers” will furnish the music. The dance begins at 8:30 and ends at 11:15.	.
General Chairman for the dance is Dallas Miller. Bill Strycker is ticket chairman; Jim Schubert, music, and Neil Snyder and Wayne Zeller, publicity.
Could you imagine an R.O.T.C. man marching to his math class followed by a naval officer candying a gun, and then seeing the guard standing outside the classroom while the prospective future officer learns his trigonometry? Well, that’s the way it was during the last war here.
Instead of the present set-up of the N.R.O.T.C. men and regular V-7 sailors, the Student Army Training Corps was in prominence during the fall of 1918. Every one involved, students, faculty, and officers, did theii- best to make it a success but since it was the first endeavor of the sort for both the government and the University, the results were somewhat confusing.
There were five men in charge of the recruits. One of these was Lieut. Dan Young, whose organizing and engineering genius latex- placed him among the best engineers of the country. After the war he returned to Notre Dame to finish his engineering course, but during the war he was second in command of the S.A.T.C.	•
The unit used Brownson, Corby and Sorin for their barracks. They never were fully outfitted or organized. There were always new ones coming in. They would report with one suit of civilian clothes and one pair of shoes and by the time they obtained their uniforms they would be nearly barefooted and their clothes would be the next thing worn out. Men reporting for class after the roll was called, would leave for K. P. duty or to drill or something else not in line with college training.
The S.A.T.C. came to pass at the beginning of the fall semester of 1918. At that time, each student and faculty member was somewhat enthusiastic over the idea of being able to help out in the victory effort by cooperating with the army officials. But it wasn’t long until most of them were tired of it all. The old timers who remember the last war’s impressions here on the campus say it was the most confused and disorganized thing ever undertaken at Notre Dame. But they also counter their first statement by saying that the fault did not belong to any one. The trouble was that it was the first time any such thing had been done here or even in the United States. More than 400 colleges and universities installed the Students Army Training Corps in their schools and each one was just as disappointing.
With all of this in the background, and looking at the present set-up now
under way here at Notre Dame, we can see that all the difficulties the students went through then were not in vain. It is very probable that the efficiency we find in the R.O.T.C. and V-7 is due largely to the experiences of the last program.
Anecdotes from the SA.T.C. in old Scholastics Nov. 16, 1918—The S. A. T. C., Co. 1 was ordered to post their class programs outside their rooms and -to be in their rooms studying except during the half hour recreation periods in the morning and after supper. — The students drilled with the S.A.T.C. last week. ... A general order prohibiting the S.A-T.C. recruits to smoke on the campus was issued by Capt. Murray. — John Culkin, Co. 2, Sorin Hall, had part of his thumb amputated because of an accident while doing K. P. duty. Nov. 23, 1918. Military authorities say too much cutting of classes is going on. Capt. Murray called a platoon of culprits up for an examination of the charges.
Nov. 30, 1918; The government issued orders this week that the S.A.T.C.’s will be disbanded as soon as possible. The officers should begin the process of disbanding immediately and the recruits would be released as soon as possible.
Rumor: Troopers Search
Kitchen for Roger Touhy
Workers in the Dining Hall last Saturday received the scare of their lives ■when all for a brief time were held in suspicion by federal agents and state troopers.
According to one of the students who works in the kitchen, twenty uniformed state policemen swarmed into the hall looking for the recently escaped Roger Touhy. They had been informed, it seems, that the dining hall had hired several unidentified men and that one of them was suspected of being Touhy.
A complete search was made, according to the student, of all the ante-rooms of the kitchen, and each worker interviewed personally by the troopers. After the intense search, it was definitely decided that Touhy and his pa^ Basil Banghart, weren’t among ihe chef’s roster.
And after every effort to substantiate this story at the dining hall, Scholastic gives it up as nothing more than a typical rumor. The troopers presence is probably explained by the football game: they come around every Saturday.
Berteili Gets War Bond;
Variety Program a Success
With enthusiasm high over the first victory of the season, the student-body turned out in full force after the game Saturday for the victory rally in Washington Hall.
Football scores of games throughout the nation were announced, and then the feature of the program, the announcement of the “Player of the Day” award was made. The “Player of the Day,” selected by the three-fold vote of the Rev. Jolin J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University, Coach Frank Leahy, and the attending students, was Angelo Berteili, star passer.
Under Dave Curtin, competent master of ceremonies, the program was received with even greater enthusiasm than previous rallies. After the singing of the Victory March, and cheers under the direction of the leaders, Veet Cappello’s Cavaliers took over the program with a number of renditions.
Steve Juzwik, in presenting the scroll, gave a short speech praising the play of Berteili and the team. Members of the team were introduced, and the program closed with the singing of the Victory March.
Revised “Scholastic" Publication Dates
Scholastic heard last week that a well known campus-residing English professor remarked to one of his classes that the failure of Scholastic to appear two weeks ago was due to the “laxity of its editors.”
In order to squelch such unfounded opinions Scholastic here presents the real reason why no issue appeared on the date in question. Due to the shortened semester and war curtailments, the Board of Publications is allowing for only ten issues of Scholastic each semester. Since there are l5 weeks in the present semester set-up, it is easily seen that there ■will he Fridays on which the news-magazine will not appear. Those particular dates were set aside as Oct. 2 and 23, Nov. 6 and 27. -
Scholastic wonders if this same English professor thought it due to the “laxity of its editors” when Scrip appeared only once last semester, and if he will feel the same when the December Dome arrives with scarcely more than. 200 pages when the annual formerly boasted 300. Perhaps the professor, is not conscious that there is a war going on.
B
K. of C. War Stamp Drive Flourishes;
Students' Motto "Bond by Christmas"
DAVE CONDON
After three weeks of hall to hall, room to room, canvassing, leaders of the Knights of Columbus sponsored war bond and stamp drive have declared that Notre Dame students are taking particular delight in helping- to kick the axis on their heels.
And according to the various hall chairmen, all of whom complimented the students on their cooperation in the drive, there is more sad news for the firm headed by the moustached paperhanger and his second violinists.
The sad news means that the total of Notre Dame stamp sales is mounting up and increasing week by week. It means that next Thursday, Oct. 22, has been designated as “One hundred per cent day,” when it is hoped that one hundred per cent of the Notre Dame student body will participate in the purchasing of stamps.
On Thursday, all students on the campus will be asked to purchase at least one war stamp. This will be his part toward reaching the one hundred per cent goal.
Already a large part of the student body has formed the habit of purchasing stamps each week, and many hall chairmen have standing orders for stamps. Several chairmen have already sold bonds. In connection with the drive ’ the Knights of Columbus sold a $75 bond to a popular campus figure, it has been revealed.
Cavanaugh Hall Notre Dame, Ind.
. October 12, 1942 Dear Editor:
If I recollect correctly, there hasn’t been a lake party at Notre Dame for three years. Perhaps, there hasn’t been any occasion for one. But now I think the time has come for the student body to return to that institution and turn the heat on a few seniors. Here’s why:
Last Friday evening the Notre Dame Glee Club presented a concert after the pep rally between Dillon and Alumni halls. During the course of the program several freshmen (disguised as , seniors inhabiting the senior hall) were throwing debris from the Alumni balconies while the club was singing “Notre Dame Our Mother.” Between that and hollering from their windows they afforded some pretty cheap competition for the singers.	:	’	.
The week before some of the playboys lurked in the balcony shadows till the singing was over and then threw a wastebasket full of water on the spectators. Besides one boy’s mother being-soaked, several band members had their new uniforms - sprayed and many other students were drenched. A pretty cheap trick. • ' . .	’	? . ? \
I think those fellows should be introduced to. a little water themselves down at the lake.	■	1	•
. An Anonymous Junior. .
With the “One hundred per cent day” scheduled for next Thursday, it was unofficially announced that totals of sales have been increasing each week, and many students have adopted a “Bond by Christmas” theme.
Formal Banquet Held
By Wranglers Last Night
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University, held their first formal banquet of the fall semester last night at the Hotel La Salle. The paper was given by the club president, Jack Ryan. It was entitled, “Political and Economic Aspects of Birth Control.” In his very through review of this subject, Mr. Ryan stressed the fact that a logical attack on the problem from these two angles will lead one to realize the nefarious activities of the Sangerite birth control racketeers.
Bill Talbot, interhall debate chairman, who succeeded Robert LeMense when the latter resigned that post at the preceding Wrangler meeting, announced a tentative assignment of coaches to the various halls on campus. Talbot promised quick action on the interhall scene with first round matches due within a few weeks.
Talbot "will be the guest speaker at the meeting next Thursday. His paper will be on “Production and the War.”

* <

I
b
Variety Show to be Held Thursday;
Cavaliers, Other Acts Provide Fun
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
A variety Show, somewhat along the line of the annual K. of C. Vaudeville, will be presented in Washington Hall next Thursday night at 8 o’clock. The entire program will be staged and produced by Reggie Flynn.
The show will feature the music of “Veet” Cappello and his Cavaliers, with Dave Curtin as master of ceremonies. No prizes will be given to the outstanding performers, since it is not an amateur program for talent. It is to be put on by campus students merely for the entertainment of the student body.
■s
Golden Dome Cleaned;
Not to be Regilded
The • golden dome has been undergoing a “cleaning-up process” for the past few weeks, with the chipped leaf scraped away and the whole structure cleaned. In this condition it will remain for the duration, officials say.
The dome will not be regilded for the centennial year, or any other year in the near future, judging from the small amount of information available.
To gild the dome at present would cost in the neighborhood of $10,000 and such a venture does not appear feasible in lieu of the war, and the fact that a blackout might possibly be necessary. There has been no hint that a blackout will be necessary but University officials are considering all angles.
In the past, the dome was regilded every tenth year. It acts as a landmark for motorists, and airplanes flying over this sector. It has long been an object of admiration and inspiration for students and alumni. During the war,
ii
Announce that Fall Bengal Bouts Are Off
Scholastic promotion, manager, Robert “Red” Lonergan, this week announced that the Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s fighting contribution to India’s Bengal Mission, have been side-tracked for the current semester. Lonergan pointed out that with the football season running almost to the semester examinations; and with pep-rallies, Wednesday evening football shows, dances, and the usual Saturday night flicker, it would be wise to put the annual event off until sometime in the next not-to-active semester. The Bengal’s will hold the activ-
Among those scheduled to appear on the stage are Phil “Ming Toy” Foote, extraordinary campus pianist; Joe Flynn, a freshman ventriloquist and imitator of famous personalities; Bill Scully, Glee Club tenor and winner of former Vaudeville prizes; Ed Dunigan, trumpeteer, also of Vaudeville fame; Leo Link, singer and ukelele player; and Kevin O’Toole’s octet.
Other acts will be added to these. Anyone interested in performing is urged to see Reggie Flynn or Lou Colleran of St. Edward’s Hall.
though, the memory will have to serve because of the now less perfect shimmer.
"Veet" Swings Sweet
At Second Victory Dance
The second Victory Dance of the current football season was held Saturday night in the Indiana Club under the auspices of the Student Council. With Notre Dame’s smashing 27-0 victory over Stan-forod behind them, the victory dancers filled the Indiana club to capacity, the presence of several hundred Cotillionites swelling the crowd considerably.
“Veet” Cappello and the Cavaliers, at their best, gave out with some torrid and mellow arrangements which had the spirited dancers on their toes all evening. The singing of Miss Lenore Fromhart, appearing with the Cavaliers for the first time, and the band’s arrangement of “Mood Indigo” were the musical highlights of the evening.
With the Notre Dame spirit fired by the team’s grand win, the evening’s dull moments were few and fai’ between. .
ity spotlight next February or March. •
“Red” reminds the freshmen, as well as all new-comers, that the weight divisions will remain as always; and that he hopes someone will, come up and offer the defending summer champions some stiff competition. The summer champs are: 120 pounds, Paul Malloy; 127 pounds, Joey Farrell; 135 pounds, Sam Atwater; 145 pounds, Walt Romito; 155 pounds, Tommy O’Connor; 165 pounds, Farrell Quinlan; 175 pounds, Harry Florence; and Heavyweight, Bill Huber.	.
FRIDAY, Oct. 16: Pep rally and another grand concert by the Glee Club in Dillon Court.
SATURDAY, Oct. 17: Notre Dame-Iowa Pre-Flight game at the stadium at 2:30; “Views and Previews” with Vail Pischke, and a special guest star, 12:30-12:45, WSBT; Downey vs. Cooney on the ND Quiz Show, 5-5:20, WSBT; Metropolitan Club “Player of the Day” program in Washington Hall immediately after the game; Another Victory Dance at the Indiana Club, 8:30; Campus movie in Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:30.
SUNDAY, Oct. 18: Notre Dame Forum of the-Air, 10:05-10:30, WSBT; An afternoon at St. Mary’s and an evening of cramming with the books.
MONDAY, Oct. 19: Mid-semester examinations; Sportscast, starring Raymond and Boss, 3:30-3:45, WSBT.
TUESDAY. Oct. 20: More exams; Government inspector arrives to analyze contents of mystery-balls as possible substitute for . synthetic rubber.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 21: Movies of the Iowa Pre-Flight game at 7:30 and 8:15 in Engineering Auditorium; “The Daniel H. Pedtke Musical - Show,” 3:30-3:45, WSBT; The Economists hold a round-table meeting.
THURSDAY, Oct. 22: Buy another war bond (or stamp) from Hie K. of C. representative in the room-to-room sale; The Wranglers hold a squaretable meeting.
Alumnus Killed in Action in Indian Air Battle
After serving the Allies in England, Gibraltar, and India, Pilot Officer Lionel V. O. Smith, ’33, of El Paso, Texas, was killed in action in India, Oct. 3.
Thirty years of age at the time of his death, Smith had been awarded his wings in the Canadian Flying School at Winnipeg, in 1941. He was graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame after attending St. Edward’s University, a Holy Cross institution in Austin, Texas.
Following his graduation here, Smith received a scholarship and attended Harvard University Business School.
According to the University Religious Bulletin, Smith’s mother received the announcement of his death three hours after receiving a letter from her son in which he said he was well and enjoying the fighting in India. .	.
9
&
Students Welcome Week's Wait for Wash;
New Deal Pledged in Laundry Situation
DAVE CONDON
Since the opening of the fall semester
there has been dirty work brewing at the Notre Dame laundry—that haven of refuge for odd socks and buttons that have lost their shirts.
This week, however, the old socks that are the powers-what-be came clean with the dirt and ironed out the situation more than somewhat. In going out on the line here is the way the laundry plan has washed out:
According to an official set of mysterious writings that have been posted on the bulletin boards, the laundry will be picked up once every two weeks. That system replaces the original method of weekly pick-up from all residence halls.
In plain English this edict means that henceforth the campus B. T. 0. will have to have two shirts in his wardrobe. The new plan also calls for the laundry being ready one week after it is dispatched. This is welcome news to the student body, -with whom the present system of “if you see it again this year you are lucky” was not entirely satisfactory.
The new set-up calls for the amount of laundry allowed each student to re-
Savoyard's Tryouts Are
Scheduled for Oct. 19, 20
Tryouts for the Notre Dame Savoyards next opera, Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Patience,” will be conducted in Room 2 of the music hall, Oct. 19, 20, from 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. All interested are urged to report at that time.
The opera will be held in Washington Hall, Nov. 30, and Dec. 1 through Dec. 4, under the direction of Professor Cecil Birder, head of the speech department. A cast of 40 will sing the score which will be accompanied by the University Symphony orchestra.
Former presentations of the Savoyards have included the “Gondoliers,” “H.M.S. Pinafore,” and “Trial by Jury,” all of which were works of Gilbert and
This semester’s selection is a two-act opera, and is a satire on Oscar Wilde’s aesthetic cult which flourished in, the late 1870’s. The extravagance of the aesthetic cult provided an admirable target for Gilbert’s wit. Soon the campus will be humming “When I Go Out Doors,”.“The Silver Churn,” and “Prithee Pretty Maiden.” Sullivan contrib-
10
main the same, on a weekly basis.
Thusly, if you were allowed one shirt a week under the old system, the new plan of bi-weekly pick-up allows you the disintegration of two shirts.
It was also officially announced that the laundry dispatched on March 27, 1843, will be ready next Wednesday, and school officials hope to make this example of modern efficiency the occasion of a gala celebration.
In the annals of Notre Dame the laundry has played a dramatic part. What history has been written on shirt sleeves (goes for all other exams, too)! What tears have been shed over friendly old socks that braved the' dangers of the laundry, most never- to return, others to come back mangled and crippled! ’
It may be truly said that the Notre . Dame laundry, from its startling scientific discovery that buttons are not a social necessity, to the establishment of the “extra roominess” feature in sport shirts, has led the field.
The Notre Dame laundry has set the pace in the world. It was a famous Notre Dame statesmen who uttered words now famous in history. Upon the return of his clothes he mounted the dome and thundered “Too little and too late!!!”
uted some of his most lilting music to this opera.
The performance schedule is as follows: Sunday, Nov. 30, will be for the University; Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 1, 2, are reserved for the Navy on campus; Wednesday and Thursday, Dec. 3, and 4 -will again be set aside for the University.	F
University Alumni
Listed by Architects
. The University is well represented in a list of officers of the Institute Chapters and State associations of Architects recently published in the Octagon, publication of the American Institute of Architects. This information was released by Professor F. W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture at Notre Dame.
James Maurice Ingram, ’28, is president of the Kentucky association, and Harold H. Munger, ’15, heads the chap-ter.of Toledo, O. Richard K. Zimmerly,
- ’29, is serving as secretary of the Indiana Society of Architects, while Austin. K. Hall, ’26, has the same capacity with the Tennessee chapter.
Dave Condon
Smiling, sincere Charles (huck) Kral-ovec, English' major from La Grange, Ill., took his first glimpse of college life from a classroom seat at the University of Michigan . . . spent a year working, and has claimed Notre Dame as a home since he entered here as a sophomore.
-Traditionally bound to N.D., Chuck’s enrollment at Michigan was an experiment ... he wanted to see if there could be any other school for him besides N.D.
. . . there wasn’t. ... So he vamoosed down Indiana way and has shaded himself under the dome for the past three years.
An athlete of. Culver Military Academy, Chuck won Wolverine numerals in . football and basketball . . . had scarcely parked his trunk -at N.D. when his brother, a senior, whispered something about Bengal Bouts. From then on the .blond bomber ambitioned to win the Bengal heavy title. ,
So great were Chuck’s ambitions that he came to summer school and started training . . . was rewarded in the finals when he defeated likeable. Bruce Heben-streit, who used to hit Jim Braddock’s -sparring partners just for the thrill of seeing them fall cold.
Enlisted in V-7, Chuck is president of the Economic Round Table . . . maintains a scholastic average of 91, . . . and rooms on the third floor of Alumni . . . shares two rooms and bath with four pre-meds and one- commerce man.
Chuck Kralovec hasn’t definitely decided upon his future, other than a few years with his rich Uncle Sammy, but. any man who can live amiably with five roommates should get along. ...	?
■ * " -	—— . — । — —— . — _	- ■	। — 'igQ
> ' > z > AatniMiifuiiiOH, Aeot4 > ✓ ✓ , ,
^>« ---- - '	■ - » .. ■ -	ii i - ■ _	— ■■■■_,_ . . . ■ _ .._ .._ ,_«KW
’ UNIVERSITY DONATION OF CANNONS . ADDS TEN TONS TO SCRAP DRIVE
JOHN BORKOWSKI
Notre Dame donated more than ten tons to the St. Joseph County scrap drive, when the two Civil War cannons located neai- the flag pole were hauled away last week, to scrap the Jap. The county drive totaled 4,270,000 pounds.
The cannons which were known to have been used in the Civil War, have figured in many Notre Dame commencement exercises. It was a custom of the class president, after a new flag had been presented to the University, to lead the class in a cheer from one of the cannons.
At a meeting of the Notre Dame Council, a decision was reached which proved that the cannons would serve a greater purpose in this war. . The two cannons weight totalled 21,380 pounds.
The cannons proved quite a problem in their removal, with the weight causing the trucks to make deep ruts in the ground. Elaborate hydraulic machinery had to be used to lift the cannons from their bearing on to the trucks. The memorable cannons were located on the West side of the Commerce Building adjoining the flag pole.
One cannon weighed 5,920 pounds while the other tipped the scales at •15,460 pounds. In the days of the Civil War the term “pounder” was a proper mode of identifying a cannon. Thus in six, nine, 12, 18, 24 and 32, pounders— six sizes in use at that time—each used
An ancient custom: looking on!
. a round cannon ball of nearly the weight in pounds corresponding to their pounder number.
The weight of the 32 pounder ball was 32.3 pounds, and the bore 6.4 inches, this was the caliber of the 15,460 pound cannon, donated by Notre Dame, while the other was known to be a 12 pounder. The cannons together with other material gathered for the scrap drive will go to the mills to be added to that used in making tanks, guns, bullets and all other similar war materials.
A plea was made at the Stanford-No-tre Dame game during the half by cheerleader Dave Curtin for further donations to the drive.
United Steel Officer
Speaks to Law School
Declaring that the effect of socialism and communism would involve the elimination of labor unions, Mr. George McDonald, secretary - treasurer of the United Steeb Workers of America, spoke under the auspices of the College of Law, Saturday, Oct. 10, in the law building.	-
The guest speaker was introduced by Mr. Francis Hoffman, ’33, graduate of Notre Dame’s law school, now an international representative of the United Steel Workers under the legal staff.
McDonald explained the objectives of organized labor in general, and of the United Steel workers in particular. He also discussed the legal effect of labor contracts, along with the force and effort of these contracts during, and after, the war. '
In the course of the open forum which followed the lecture, Mr. McDonald emphatically deplored the impressions that labor unions were socialistic or communistic in their purpose or tendencies. He added later that “for selfish reasons as well as for philosophical and economic reasons, labor leaders are vigorously opposed to socialism and communism.”
The faculty and students of the department of economics were guests of the law college at the lecture.
Professor Eugene Kormendi Designs New Statue
A new statue of the Blessed Virgin has been designed by Mr. Eugene Kormendi, and the University expects to erect it immediately following the present war. The statue, which will be sculptured from solid white marble, and standing about ten feet in height, will be placed on the campus of Notre Dame University.
Eugene Kormendi, professor of art at Notre Dame, has a small model of the statue already completed. His technique might be described as “beauty in simplicity.” Examples of his art work in sculpturing can be seen in the art gallery of the library.	-
Professor Kormendi was born in Budapest, and came to this country, with his family, about two and one-half’ years ago. He has studied under the famous Joseph Bernard in Paris, and he later worked for the Rodin Studio in the same city.
The Kormendi’s were living in Holland when the war broke out. After coming to this country they lived in Milwaukee, Wis., and recently they moved to South Bend. Mrs. Kormendi is also, well known as an artist, particularly as a painter and ceramic (form of clay modeling) artist.
Professor Kormendi recently did a placque of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, and his works have been shown by the Milwaukee Art Institute, and the Chicago Art Institute.
IL
History of Catholic Archives Reviewed
JACK RUMBACH
The University of Notre Dame, beginning the celebration of her centennial year, feels the need of some source of the history of the University. This need is realized in the “Catholic Archives of America,” located in the University library.
When Professor James Farnham Edwards conceived the idea of establishing a “Memorial Hall of Bishops” at Notre Dame about 60 years ago, he began the most complete collection of documents on the Catholic Church in America.
lt was the intention of Professor Edwards to institute a central memorial to American Prelates and also make the University the location of an American Catholic Archives. The story of how he conceived the idea is an interesting one.? While a boy in school he came across some old documents of Father Badin and Bishop Cretin among a litter of papers he was throwing away. It occurred to him that much valuable material, useful for future historians, was being carelessly destroyed. Wishing to save such documents and relics, he hit upon the idea of a central archives where valuable information could be preserved for later investigation. €
Mr. Edwards started immediately to gather portraits, miniatures, busts, documents and other relics of bishops and various outstanding members of the hierarchy. His search continued after his graduation from Notre Dame in 1875, and through his 30 years as professor and librarian at the University. Since the value of such articles was not universally apparent at that time he had no trouble in augmenting his collection, and received the, aid of many priests and laymen who shared his sense of the importance of such articles.
An active personage on the Notre Dame campus, Mr. Edwards did not confine himself and his efforts to the archives, but found time to pursue his
position as librarian of the Lemonnier library with a vigor that enabled him to make it an outstanding part of the University. Mr. Edwards, a native of Toledo, Ohio, also conceived the idea of the Laetare Medal, an award annually presented to the Catholic layman achieving noteworthy success in any field.
The portraits collected by Professor Edwards were hung in the corridors of the Administration Building while the other relics found'their way into the . cases and on the walls of the Lemonnier library which was also in the Main Building at that time. While the new li
brary was erected in 1917, however, the collections were stored -in large part to make room for new benefactions of the priceless works of art now on exhibition; the vestments and relics reposed in the sacristy. Most of the pictures of the American hierarchy were brought out in the last few years and now adorn the walls of the two large University dining halls, although a few of the more valuable ones are in the library’s art gallery.
While there is a priceless value attached to several of the vestments and chalices in the church, by far the most important parts of the collection are the documents. Today, no author can write a complete historical account of Catholicism in America without consulting the University.Archives at Notre Dame. The .collectidn^pfi documents from the years 1800 to 1879 stands unequalled.
After the death of Mr. Edwards in 1911, the collection continued to grow and now numbers over 400,000 pieces. For many years, however, the documents were left stored in boxes, and the tedious work of chronicling them was not begun until 1930. Although the job is a very slow one, there have already been about 40,000 pieces calendared. The work is being carried on under the direction of the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist.
Service Men Present
Opportunities to Students
With an 18-19 draft imminent for those not already subject to the Selec-tive Service Act, Notre Dame students were informed last week of the opportunities of the Army, Navy, and Marine reserve program by a five-man presentation board.
After a brief outline of each service at a convocation held Wednesday after
noon in Washington Hall, each member of the board was. assigned a campus office to receive students and their queries about the particular services. These conferences lasted from Wednesday after the convocation till Thursday afternoon. :
The purpose of this board, which has been visiting various colleges throughout the country, is to give students a clearer understanding of the opportunities .offered them by the various branches of the armed forces. Lieutenant Colonel B. F. Hoge, introduced by Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., coordinator ofwar activities, set forth the man power .com- . missions program regarding the use of
Belief in the Common Man. colleges in the present emergency. Col- Lobbying: Braisdell, D. C., Govern-
onel Hoge, chairman of the five-man ment Under Pressure.
board, was captain of the historical 1913 Army football team.
The Navy programs of V-l and V-7 were outlined by Lieutenant. R. L. Nipper, while Lieutenant D. E. Oren spoke on the Naval Air Corps or V-5 program. The Marines were represented by Lieu-' tenant E. F. Ziegler. Lieutenant. A. C. Dumont explained the policy of the Army Air Corps. Finally, Colonel Hoge pointed out the benefits of the Army Enlisted Reserve programs. He stressed the fact that while all the programs showed hope of some deferment for college students nothing definite could be promised due to the uncertain course of the war.
Columbus Day Observed
By Notre Dame Knights
The Knights of Columbus of Notre Dame celebrated Columbus Day with a corporate communion and breakfast in collaboration with the South Bend Council, Sunday, Oct. 11. Communion was received at St. Joseph’s church, followed by a breakfast. The main speakers at the breakfast were Rev. Wendel P. Corcoran, C.S.C., the pastor of St. Joseph church, Ed McKeever and Moose Krause, members of the football coaching staff.
Following the breakfast the Knights went to Michigan City and nine members received second and third degrees in a Columbus Day Class conducted by the Michigan City Council.
The following received their degrees: Ensign Vic Vedoni, Francis L. Brink-man, John R. Thumm, John K. Wolff, William Z. Murrin, Robert Hallein, Paul J. Toland, John Denney, Philip Stereo-poli.—Johnny Borkoivski
1
>4

Library Adds New Books
A total of 18 new books was received at the University Library Oct. 3 and 10. These books are available for students at the present time/ The books received with authors listed first were:
U. S. History: Warren, C., Odd Byways in American History; Wertenbaker, T. J., The Old South—-the Founding of ■American Civilization; Butter, D. B., The . Lost Peace.
Biography: Feuss, C. M., Calvin Coolidge; Putnam, G. P., Wide Margins; Maynard, T’, The Reed and the Rock.
Peace: Carr, E. H., Conditions of Peace. ■
Economics: Foulke, R. A., Credit Problems in War Economy; Ratnei*, S., American Taxation; Harwood, E. C., Current American Delusions.
Democracy: Friedrich, C. J., The Neiv
-1
A>
12
V®6
> Nguu. at Noble. ^bame y

(These pages are written by the Public Relations Office for the men in the Navy School. Some V-7 in the third and fourth battalions have generously devoted time and effort to send in contributions and we ivould appreciate any further assistance).
* * *
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
By Lieutenant (j.g.) E. C. Dollard
One of the largest and most unusual monuments we’ve ever seen is right in the middle of South Bend. There’s no plaque on it, and no one is buried under it, but it’s a finer monument than money can buy. The monument itself is a scrap heap. That’s right. A huge pile of twisted iron and steel. On the top is an old, broken axle, and near one corner is a twisted baby carriage. It is dedicated to a man who believed in Democracy and died for it.
He was a local fellow around fifty, who called up his office on Sunday and insisted he be assigned to a truck to help collect scrap. He got his wish. There was an accident and he was killed. In our tremendous production and war effort, men like Gordon Weaver are apt to be forgotten. They would be except for one thing. It takes men like Weavers to win wars. All the huge planes and ships we’re building wouldn’t be worth the scrap Weaver was collecting if we didn’t have men with courage like his to operate them.
Hitler and his gang would have hated and feared Gordon Weaver and that fact alone would make him worth knowing. They want men like him out of. the way and forgotten. But we won’t forget him. And we won’t wait until victory is ours to pay him tribute. He died for a great cause, and. his death has as much purpose as his life. His death makes him the living answer to Herr Hitler’s question, “what are you Americans going to do about it?” Weaver showed us all what • he was willing to do and we won’t forget it.
When this war is over, there will once again be beautiful monuments erected to the men who didn’t come back. Gordon Weaver wasn’t in uniform so his name won’t be on any of them. But his monument will match them all in our ‘ estimation. It’s a huge pile of twisted iron and steel with an old, broken axle on the top
and a twisted baby carriage near one corner. His name isn’t on or near the monument. It doesn’t have to be. It’s engraved in the hearts of all of us who honor the memory of a man we won’t forget. Gordon Weaver, of South Bend.
NOTES AND COMMENTS
Men who have had experience on newspapers and magazines are asked to try their hand on feature stories concerning activities here at the Midshipmen’s School. Please submit the stories to the Public Relations Department where they will be checked and submitted to newspapers. Your home town paper would be very interested in getting a personal story from you, and we’ll see that you get a by-line.
* *
In case you have a camera with you and take pictures, be sure you submit the pictures to the Public Relations Officer before sending them to any newspaper or publication. This is in compliance with a district order.
* _ * *
Plans are now under way to publish a midshipmen’s year book for the present class. It’s going to take a lot of work and responsibility and of course the book will be managed and produced by midshipmen. Officers will act only as advisors.
' * * *
Arrangements will be made to take group pictures from the same universities and fraternities. These will be available for you to buy and to send to your national chapter magazine.
* * *
You men, who are in training to become officers in the Navy, should be familiar with the type and kinds of training given to the men who will serve under you.
Many of these men are now being trained at the largest Naval training station in the world.
Let’s take a recruit, who arrives in a draft at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, and follow him through his course of training.
The recruit arrives in a large draft and is directed to Camp Barry, which is called “boot camp” because of the boots
or leggings which are worn while still in recruit training. The man, still a little lonesome and apprehensive, is directed to a large building to receive medical inspection and be equipped with his gear.
Each man is assigned to a square, marked out on the floor. He strips off his clothes, and everything but his watch, wallet, and a few personal possessions are packed in a box which is sent back to his home. His remaining personal effects are then stowed in his “ditty bag.”
The recruit is now ready for- medical inspection. First, he goes through a long series of showers where he is washed and scrubbed clean. Then he makes a quick trip through the barber shop where his hair is trimmed to the- standard Navy-inch and a half. After this come dental examination, X-rays, and general physical check-ups.
When the recruit gets by this ordeal, he is directed upstairs to receive his clothing and gear. Every piece of clothing is checked for fit and appearance, because the Navy is interested not only in comfort, but in the neat and military-appearance of its men.
Our recruits are then formed into companies and begin their “boot” training. While in Camp Barry, these men are drilled rigorously and fed well to replace their peace-time fat with wartime muscle. They are inoculated for tetanus, typhoid, smallpox, and yellow-fever. Special attention is paid during these three weeks to building up the strength and resistance of these recruits to meet the strain to which they will be subjected under battle conditions. In the Battle of Java our men were at their battle stations for 36 hours before sighting and engaging the enemy. You can imagine the stamina and strength necessary to withstand such strains. These men gain an average of six pounds in weight while at Great Lakes. The food must be good.
During their three weeks in detention these recruits begin their transition from land-locked farmers and office workers to seagoing sailors. They learn that floors are decks and walls are bulkheads; that when they go on or off the station they are either coming aboard or going ashore; they learn to sleep in hammocks; and even get used to the standard navy beans for breakfast on Wednesdays and Saturdays.
B
pOACH BERNIE BIERMAN and his Iowa Seahawks, with a streak of four straight wins, glide into the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow afternoon in an effort to crash the “T” party being given by the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
Having shoved Kansas, Northwestern, Minnesota, and Michigan off the undefeated pedestal, the “Hawk” loof as one of the gridiron powers of the country. The Flyers struck Kansas with a 61-0 blow to open the season and followed up by crushing the hopes of three of the nation’s traditional football powerhouses. On successive Saturdays Bernie Bierman’s cadets out-scored Northwestern 20-12, Minnesota 7-6, and Michigan 2614.
In view of the great record that Coach Bierman has emblazoned on the Minnesota gridiron, here are a few of the high spots of his career. Lieutenant Bierman’s coaching career began at Billings, Mont., high school but was interrupted by the last war when he enlisted in the Marine Corps. The coaching career was resumed at the University of Montana, and there followed positions as assistant football coach at Tulane, head coach at Mississippi A & M, head coach at Tulane, and finally head coach at Minnesota. After losing three out of eight games in 1932 his first year as Minnesota’s coach, Bierman’s Gopher teams proceeded through three straight seasons and a total of 28 games without defeat. Last year Minnesota completed its second straight season undefeated and untied. During his ten years at Minnesota his teams won five Big Ten championships and tied another. His lifetime coaching record shows a winning percentage of .792. Holder of a commission of Major in the Marine Corps Reserve, Bierman was recalled to active duty in December of 1941 and was assigned to assist in the organization of the physical training program for Naval aviation and was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel last May.
The present edition of the Pre-Flight-ers is expected to be the best balanced, highest powered team to invade the inner sanctum of Notre Dame stadium this year. Adding a colorful touch to the clash will be the return of Matt Bolger, top flight end of last year’s unbeatable squad. The tall Jerseyite is expected to turn in one of the greatest games of his career.
This time, Bolger (No. 51),
has and Bob and
American halfback last year and startled Coach Bierman with speed agility. Backing- up these men are Swisher, Bernie Mertes, Bob Heer, Jim Langhurst.
। ch
■.st:
Alternating with Cadet Bolger at left end for the Hawks will be Mal Kutner, All-American end of last year. Judd Ringer and Bob Daly, a couple of 200-pound six-footers, will handle the right end situation. At the tackles, two Minnesota graduates, Jack Kulbitski at left and Charles Schultz at right, have proven their ability to hold their own, but are being pressed by some startling play by Bill Kolens. Guards Fred Gage and Gene Flick have power and drive to burn. At the center spot the Hawks have two men either of whom is an impregnable forward wall by himself. George Svendsen and John Haman have both shown their stuff in professional football.
The Seahawks’ backfield reads like several pages from football’s “Who’s Who.” Forest Evashevski or Al Couppee will operate in the quarterback spot. Evashevski is still regarded as the man who “made” Tom Harmon with his terrific blocking and field generalship. Al -Couppee was the brilliant sophomore quarterback on Iowa’s 1939 “Iron Man” team. Pittsburgh’s John Michelosen and the Cleveland Rams’ Wayne Gift provide ample insurance in the quarterback spot.
At fullback the Flyers are blessed with a wealth of material. George Benson of Northwestern, Ed Jankowski of Wisconsin and the Green Bay Packers, and George Paskvan also of the Badgers and the Packers are just a few. These backs need no further introduction. They have everything.
Dick Fisher of Ohio State and Bill Schatzer of North Central are at present dividing the halfback duties. Fisher has been the “big gun” in the Hawk attack, punting and passing the Flyers to their four victories. Schatzer was a Little All-
Averaging the Irish and the Seahawks as they lined up last week, the Flyers have a definite edge in poundage. The Navy boys, as a team, average 203 pounds against 193 for the Irish; in the line, 208 to 201; and 194 to 179 in the backfield. This tremendous amount of
TO CONTIN E

Face Seahawks
-----	’k;
man power has been a great factor a^ the Hawks rolled up 114 points to thei1- i opponents 32.
Despite this obvious bulwark, Frank J Leahy’s charges have rapidly been priming themselves for this meeting. The 270 trouncing given the Stanford Indians last week is a fitting reminder to the (Continued on page 27)

14
«E ON VICTORY MARCH
Resounding with solid smack that sent shivers down the spines of Stanford Uni-^■.versity’s Indians, the Fighting Irish of “^Notre Dame shook the turf out of their .cleats last Saturday afternoon in the .stadium and thrashed the footballers from Palo Alto by a 27 to 0 margin to '■snap into the 1942 win column.
' Displaying a traditional Notre Dame
t be tackling for the Irish.
of the
the ice the the
ingstone.
Spirit oozed from every cog- in Notre Dame machine and after the was broken in the final minutes of second chapter by an Irish score,
got within striking distance
5'


spirit, the Gold and Blue swept aside the opposition to climb back on the glory trail staging a pigskin show, the likes of which has not been witnessed since the current season rolled around.
To Head Coach Frank Leahy the victory meant much as he lay in Mayo Clinic while another Notre Dame son, “Marchie” Schwartz, Stanford’s .grid leader, saw his dream of shattering the Irish, fade with the advent of the second quarter, for it was then that the dormant Notre Dame team came into sudden and inspiring life.
Approximately 30,000 were in the stadium and felt the revitalization of Notre Dame as Angelo Bertelli fired four scorching touchdown heaves to Bob Dove, Paul Limont, Captain George Murphy and a final chunk to Bob Liv-
scalps of the Indians were hung out to dry. Pounding and smashing their way every minute of the encounter, it was a merry sight to see a group of downright belligerent Irishmen outfight and outplay, the massive Indian line. Faced with a distinct lack of tonnage along the forward wall as compared to the enemy, the Irishers, led by Harry Wright, Herb Coleman, Captain Murphy, Tom Brock, Bob Dove, Lou Rymkus, Bob McBride, Ed Tobin, Bob Neff and all the rest, completely dominated play in that area.
Then the array of fine backs can’t be left out of the show. All of them, Ber-telli, Mello, Tommy and Creighton Miller, Livingstone, Earley, Creevey, Ashbaugh, Clatt, Cowhig and Piccone, were in victory shape and their prints as well as their smoke bore out that fact.
Ed McKeever’s “charges pro - tern” broke loose in the middle of the second quarter and from then on smashed in with sprints that laid the oval in position and each time Bertelli unlimbered his arm to crown the effort with touchdown reward.
Throughout the opening quarter a series of “feeling out” operations took place and both the Irish and the Indians
double stripe. Each defending eleven dug in when threatened and repulsed in fine style the scoring efforts of the other.
A series of penalties marred the opening of the second chapter but the relentless Irish closed in after an Indian punt was returned to their own 32 by Livingstone. Several short jabs at the forward wall by Clatt and Livingstone and a short heave, Bertelli to Livingstone put the ball on the Stanford 45, started Notre Dame’s scoring spree.
Clatt snatched a yard at the left side of the line and Angelo stepped back, a second later the ball was in the arms of Bob Dove who was unmolested in tallying. A true boot through the uprights gave the Irish a 7 to 0 lead.
Not content were the Notre Dame men for they plunged right back into the fray and barely a minute later got possession of the ball on the Stanford 45 following a fourth down fumble.
Russ Ashbaugh moved the ball deep into Indian territory with a sparkling 22 - yard gallop through the Stanford team. Again short thrusts pecked away yardage and from the 16-yard strip, Bert puffed another pass this time to Limont, dumping another six points into the victory jackpot. Again the kick clicked and the tally stood at 14 and 0. The half ended several seco nds. later.
Breaking into the last portion of the scrap with their intersectional rivals, the Irish allowed the foe to advance to the N.D. .-38 where the Indians fumbled the ball away.
Two plays failed to gain so Bert stepped into passing stance and slammed a hard pass to Bob Dove who scampered to the Stanford 26. On the following • play, a 26-yard pass with Captain George Murphy pulling in the ball, racked up the third touchdown of the typically Irish afternoon. The conversion attempt failed.
Stanford livened up the tilt by pushing their way down to the Irish 29. Just when the Indian threat seemed most dangerous, Bill Earley intercepted a pass by Hammett and ran back to the N. D. 28 before being downed.
Earley and Clatt combined for a first down on the Irish 38. After a loss, Bill Earley and Bertelli teamed up on a lateral play that went for 24 yards and laid the pigskin on the Stanford 46.
Bob Livingstone stepped up the tempo .
(Continued on page 27)
£
15
s
> x > x Ao/te	,	,	,	'	,
_ * . yal	1 ...■■ —— ■	■«■	- —^—I——^—■—— —— , ,kao
Strong lllini Are Next On the Irish Grid Card
Bill Boss
Cheers still curl high in heavy Illinois air around Champaign’s Memorial Stadium, the home base of the Fighting lllini, where last Saturday the unexpected happened — courageous Illinois beat the National grid champions, Minnesota. But through the din of resounding triumphant cries can be heard the broad chant of the Orange student body, “Beat Notre Dame, Beat Notre Dame.”
Eddie Anderson’s currently strong Iowa team is incidental in the plans of Ray Eliot’s lads. They’re not fretting too much about the contest with the Cornhuskers at Iowa City tomorrow but are stratting determinedly across the coarse grass of Memorial Stadium this week looking forward to the appearance of the Irish next Saturday, Oct. 24.
The Irish and Blini have opposed each othei- but five times in past years. Notre Dame has never lost to the Urbana unit but was once tied by a balky Zuppke coached eleven in ’37.
Impressive, to say the least, is Illinois present gridiron status. Shoving back a determined but noticeably weak, South Dakota eleven in their opening engagement the lllini then smashed through Butler with little trouble. Competition had not been seen and Minnesota’s Gophers were to have little trouble with the Eliot patrol but something unscheduled took place and the lllini throttled the weighted charge of Minnesota. Daley carried the ball for the surprised Gophers but six times during the afternoon; Alex Agase, an alert Assyrian guard, scored two lllini touchdowns in the tussle as Minnesota fainted before the magic Eliot wand, 20-13.
The entire Midwest is looking down Urbana highways with fear and wonderment. Can Ray Eliot’s first squad, seeded with sophomores, be a potential Big Nine championship aggregation? The old master, Bob Zuppke, made future football rivals shudder when his squads unexpectedly slashed a touted football power. It never failed to happen. Little. Illinois with but a handful of football talent would overthrow a football kingpin in the middle of the alley each season. Notre Dame was the saddened victim in 1937 when the deceptive lllini
16
eleven held all Irish thrusts away from the white posts to wrench a draw from Elmer Layden’s crew, 0-0.
This year’s Illinois team generally functions from a single-wing formation, operating most of the time behind a balanced line. Seldom is an unbalanced line employed. Varying from the old Zuppke system of attack Eliot has become more conservative with his formations abandoning many of the intricate football maneuvers his predecessor had used. As far as an aerial attack goes Illinois has none. Their best flingers Joe Astroth and Dick Good are second stringers. Don Griffin passes sporadically from left half as does Capt. Jimmy Smith and Tony Butkovich. Smith and
Unique Basketball Season on Deck this Year; All Cagemen are Enlisted in Reserve Forces
With the opening of preseason drills on last Monday the Centennial Year edition of the Notre Dame varsity basketball review embarked on the queerest schedule in Irish cage history. There will not be one season this winter, but two. In the month of December the boys will go into action five times. Then on Dec. 19, they hit the road for three weeks of home cooking, glowing fireplaces, and good books, returning on Jan. 10 for the second “season.”	.
* ’
The first round of play will see four games at home, viz., Ball State Teachers of Muncie, Ind., Western Michigan; Teachers of Kalamazoo, the .Badgers of the U. of Wisconsin, and lastly a long awaited contest with the cage power of the Big Ten, Purdue. The other December game and the only road game in the first season will be played against Northwestern in the Chicago stadium. This game will be part of double header basketball bargain, the other half of which will bring together De Paul U. of Chicago and Purdue. Incidentally, the N.D. team will make three other appearances in stadium double headers this winter.	~	.
After the mid-winter vacation a very, representative schedule includes home and home encounters with De Paul, Marquette, Michigan, Michigan State, and Butler, and single games with Northwestern, Great Lakes Naval Train-
_	3
Butkovich — both fullbacks, can’t very > | well match the bombardments of Notre 1 Dame’s Angelo.	f
The Illinois line is a barrier from | portside to starboard. Against Minnesota i five of the solid blocks played the en- | tire 60 minutes. And now there is an I immediate rebirth of the trite “iron men” phrase.	|
The lllini linemen that endured Sat- I urday’s battle for the duration slam- | ming and stalling the strong Minnesota | running attack, were: right guard, Alex I Agase; Sophomores Mike Kasap, tackle, I and Mac Wenskunas center; Elmer Engel, a rangy end, and Joe Pawlowski, a guard.	.
ing Station, Kentucky, N.Y.U., and Ca-nisius of Buffalo.
This is the toughest cage card in recent history. Aside from the caliber of the opposition, the long post-holiday layoff provides an additional handicap in that none of the opposing teams face such a layoff. Since basketball is a game that requires such terrific physical condition, the going will probably be pretty tough in the latter part of January. •
As the probable strength of this year’s ; varsity we quote veteran Coach George Keogan, “Under present conditions it is J hard to tell how good we will be this J year. However, if we can keep the squad that we have intact throughout the season we will have a good ball club.”
Gone from last season’s team are Captain Art Pope, Frank Quinn, Cy Singer, George Sobek, and “Buster” Hiller. Pope and Quinn are now stationed at the Navy V-7_ school here at Notre Dame; Singer is being trained as rear turret gunner at the bomber school at Camp Logan, Colo.; and Sobek and Hiller are stationed t at Great Lakes and will probably com- , pete against their old teammates in the i,| Notre Dame-Gfeat Lakes game.	J
Three of these men, Quinn, Singer and | Hiller, will be sorely missed. Quinn was | one of the finest defensive centers in the | country, and a good all around ball play- 3
1 3
I er. Singer was a good defensive man, a clever ball handler, and a guard who could score—and sometimes plenty. Hil-। ler was a fine offensive ball player, who i had probably the finest shooting eye on । the squad and a knack for being in the | right place at the right time.
I In spite of these losses, however, there are several fine men returning for this | season’s play. These include last year’s । sophomores and juniors who return with | one more year of experience under their | belt and last year’s freshmen, who, as I this year’s sophomores, will be taking their first crack at big time college bas-
4 ketball.	.
| In the first category we have forwards | Niemiera, Butler, Curran, and Vince-| guerra. Of this foursome the first named * three saw plenty of action last season, I and the fourth, Vinceguerra, was.out for i the entire season because of a knee in-
jury. He is all right now and will be fighting for a first string forward slot. The returning centers are Bob Faught, the leading scorer on last year’s team, and Tom Brennan, who did well in every department of play in the few brief appearances he made last season. At the guard posts Coach Keogan has Boni-celli, Kuka, Rensberger, and O’Leary, | all experienced campaigners.
In the second category, viz., the sophomores, there are several good prospects. These include Klier (a brother of Gene Klier, a star Notre Dame guard of not too long ago), Foley, Pavella, Sobek (a brother of George Sobek), Davis, Rutledge, and Newbold (the fourth of the Newbold brothers to play basketball for Notre Dame). Though these men have
yet to prove themselves in varhity competition at least three of them are capable of breaking into the lineup this year. These three are Klier, a forward, and Davis and Rutledge, both guards. Pavella, another forward, is an exceptionally good shot but is handicapped by his height, or rather the lack of it, for he stands only five feet, seven inches.
Although Coach Keogan says no one on the squad has any position cinched, the starting lineup will probably consist of forwards Niemiera and Butler, center, Faught, and guards, Rensberger and Kuka.	>
This year’s squad as well as its sched-i ule is unique. Every member is a service ) man enlisted in. the armed forces. They T are enlisted in . the Navy V-7, V-5, and V-l, in the Army Air Forces, in the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps, and in the Marine Officers’ Training Corps.
Aside from the winning of athletic contests this year’s basketball schedule here and all over* the country will do
much to condition the future officers and men of our aimed forces. Basketball is ideal for this purpose and is highly recommended by all branches of the services. It is a sport which requires fine physical condition, courage, stamina, and quick mental and physical reflexes.
Wrestling Being Added
To Interhall Program
With interhall football veiy much in the limelight at present, the late fall sports have taken a back seat; however, a well-rounded schedule of events has been planned for the latter part of the term.
John A. Scannell, director of interhall activities, expressed that this year’s fall schedule will be enlarged by the addition of wrestling, and a greater program in basketball.
A revival of this summer’s volley ball league will be resumed with, of course, the addition of the freshmen.
Besides the regularly enrolled interhall basketball teams, there will be an
other league sanctioned which will operate in the old gym. The primary purpose
of this added entertainment is to situate these. boys who do^not make the interhall teams because of ^ack of ability or some other obstacle. The league is to engross any and all organizations such
as clubs, hall floors, and other campus congregations that desire entry.
Wrestling, a newcomer/ to the interhall athletic set-up, is scheduled to get underway sometime in November. A training period of three weeks followed by a tournament of elimination for all weights has been suggested but nothing is definite yet. This sport, which is commonly termed “grappling” is of extreme importance because of the valuable training it affords in the present program of physical fitness. Hall teams will be formulated if participation merits them; otherwise, there will be individual events with various weight classes.
After football, which ends Nov. 22, the remaining interhall sports will begin immediate competition. However, the preliminary training period is labeled for a start sometime in the earlier days of November.	..
Squash, handball, and the swimming meets are part of the future indoor athletic plan, that is, when the students feel the cold wave approaching and will forgo their- outdoor- pastimes and begin to hibernate in search, of some indoor type of muscular activity.—Bill Waddington
Harriers Face Loyola
The Notre Dame Cross-Country team will meet Loyola in the first dual meet of the year tomorrow morning. Answering the gun for the Irish will be Ollie Hunter, Frank Conforti, Tony Maloney, Walt Brehmer, Don Currie and Bob Crawley. This veteran unit will face a tough opening foe in the Loyola harriers.
The race will be run over the Notre Dame course that starts at Cartier Field, passes the Biology Building, circles St. Joseph’s lake, twice, around St. Mary’s lake and then, coming up by the Log Chapel and the Library, cuts across the campus finishing at Cartier Field. The distance covered will be three and three-eights miles.
The team has been working out daily under Coach Handy at the Erskine Country Club Course. Running true to form the boys seem to be in fine shape for their first test.
It has been announced that the Illinois meet on Oct. 24 will be run between the halves of the football game at Champaign. At last the Notre Dame “hill and dalers” will get some of the public acclaim they richly deserve. At home, tomorrow, let’s turn out at 10:30 on Cartier Field, and cheer the Irish to their first track victory of the year.
Evert Defeats Faught In Fall Tennis Finals
Jumpin’ Jimmy Evert captured the Notre Dame fall tennis crown last Tuesday out-driving lanky Bob Faught, dazzling hardwood expert, 6-4, 6-2, in a brilliant exhibition of top flight tennis.
Bob started fast, winning three of the first four games and breaking through Jim’s serve at. love in one game. Evert’s forcing shots began to strike pay dirt and Jimmy climbed up to a 4-3 lead. Faught brought the games back to an even level with a 4-1 win in the eighth game. Jim put the clincher on the first set with two close wins for a 6-4 victory.
The second set saw Evert leap to a lead in the first two games only to be tied again by a couple of desperate wins by Faught; After Jim captured two drawn out deuce games, Faught made a last determined bid taking the seventh game, but the champ closed out the set 6-3.
Tim Kelley, carrot-topped tennis ace, captured the title in the annual freshmen tournament with a long, hard fought 4-6, 6-4, 6-2, victory over Tom Herbert. Both played fine tennis and can be. counted on as varsity material for next year.—Phil Keen
17
J
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
Notre Dame’s pivot position is well-manned by Walter John Ziemba, aggressive and determined senior ace from Hammond, Ind. Ziemba has yet to make a bad pass from center, since he was moved to the post from his sophomore right tackle station. In fact, his offensive and defensive feats have been a big factor in the Irish forward wall the last
two years.
Walt Ziemba
Walt was born July 19, 1919, and after preliminary education at Wallace and Maywood grammar schools, he entered Hammond High. Here he teamed with Herky Bereolos, ex-Notre Dame tackle; Bud Hasse, Northwestern end; George Benson, Iowa Pre-Flight fullback, whom Wally hopes to play against tomorrow—a leg injury permitting; Paul Kief ord, ex-Northwestern halfback; and Bay Frankowski, former Washington ace. Wally faced Dippy Evans, Tommy Harmon and Tom Kuzma in his prep days. He was selected All-State two years in football as a tackle and mentioned on All-State Basketball fives two years. Walt says playing with his pal, George Sobek, last year’s N.D. basketball and baseball terror, in the state basketball finals was his greatest thrill. He regretted losing the game to South Side Fort Wayne by two points, as it meant much to Coach Chet Kessler, who kept him in condition during his high school days. Ziemba earned 11 letters, and 32 college football offers (besides a Notre Dame offer) while at Hammond High.
During the summer Wally works before the open-hearth of the steel furnace. This summer he was joined by Ed Bein-or, Frank Patrick, and Gary Famigli-etti all pro league bruisers.
Polish sausage, and pigs and blankets
top his food menu, and other favorites are: dance band—Glenn Miller; hobbies —hunting and motoi' boating; and favorite professor — Dr. Kaczmarek. Walt’s roommate is husky Lou Rymkus, varsity tackle.
Ziemba attests that blocking the extra point in last year’s Northwestern game to give the Irish a coveted 7-6 victory was his biggest thrill. After the war the coaching game appeals to the husky 6 foot 3 inch, 225-pound offensive and defensive powerhouse. He has enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve and probably won’t be called until after graduation next May with a B.S. in Physical Education. Until then he will be harassing enemy ball carriers and centering an improved Irish forward wall.
It used to be Tommy Miller was Creighton Miller’s brother, but now it is this. . . . Tommy is not just Creigh-ty’s brother, but Tommy. As he told us: Creighton Miller is Tommy’s brother.
Tom Miller
“I sort of surprised myself in that Georgia Tech game. And that player of the week still has me staggering!” Tommy blames N.D.’s slow start on the newness of the shift. “After the novelty wears off and we get it down to a “T,” then we should, go to town. A loss and a tie is no reason to say we’ve had a bad season; it just takes time for the new shift to function properly,” said Philosophy major Miller.
Thomas Seeay Duff Miller was born July 11, 1921, in Cleveland, Ohio. After speedy sessions at St. Anne’s and Shaker Junior high school, Tom enrolled at Alexis I. Du Pont H. S. in Wilmington,
Del., where their coach, with only 60 boys in the high school, placed a formidable eleven on the field. Tommy, playing left half, right half, and fullback in three successive years, continually led underdog Du Pont High to successful campaigns. Playing schools with enrollments of close to 2,000 students, the light Du Pont outfits were forced to back up their small line, and forward pass their larger opponents to submission. Tom climaxed a brilliant high school career, scoring three touchdowns in his final (Continued on page 25)
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this . easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call C. W. VEACH Ticket Office	."
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
WELCOME, Navy Men! Ask about special furlough rates
18



-A
>- <
COMES THE REVOLUTION
That is what you might call it. Our team looked like a new outfit last Saturday with better blocking, tackling, and generally better choice of offensive and defensive measures. Even more pleasing was the untiring spirit of the players. They never thought of quitting and the few breaks that went the wrong way only served to make the boys tougher. The student body should get a big blow and so should the subs in cheering the boys to do their best. We were “all out.” Picking out one man, the purpose of the meeting in Washington Hall, as the star, is almost an injustice to the whole squad. The victory came because everybody was working, though one man in particular was really making up for lost time.
Dove, Tobin, Coleman, and all of the other linemen cannot be overlooked, or can we forget Clatt, Earley, and Livingstone. These are only a few of those who were in there fighting. Coach McKeever’s handling of- the team is important above all. He must have made Coach Leahy want to get out of bed and jump for pure joy over the success of the “T” formation. In case anyone thinks that our first two games were complete flops we want to suggest a look at the record.
Wisconsin has polished off Marquette without trouble and then given the pride and joy of the Wheat Country a licking. Missouri was pushed all over the field and no foolin’. We looked pretty good against Wisconsin. At present there does not seem to be much hope of making Elroy Hirsch slow down unless the National Coaches Association limits him to 35 m.p.h. pretty soon.
The Eamblin’ Wrecks managed to give Auburn a bruising so now they are safe till they bump intto the Crimson Tide and Sinkwich U. Notre Dame doesn’t have breathers.
WELCOME BACK!
Three of the men on last year’s undefeated team are back on campus as All-Americans in Uncle Sam’s Navy. They are Bernie Crimmins, Steve Juz-wik, and Bob Hargrave. Coach Leahy would undoubtedly be happy to have this trio go through calisthenics on Car-tier instead of the parking lot, but men
“RED" LONERGAN
like Harry Wright are showing that they can do the same job.
Tom Miller was the first “player of the day.” Angelo Bertelli was the second. So far as we know there has been little opinion to the contrary about these two devastating forces. We couldn’t keep from smiling when a sports writer working on the Tech game said that he had seen few tackles who could come up to Lou Rymkus. We figure that the writer knows his business because if “Tiny” keeps playing the same kind of ball as in his last three games he will be at least All Western.
We might as well give some credit to the fine showing made by the band and the cheer leaders. They deserve it. Many of the old timers were free with their praise of the band as they left the stadium. The fancy formations they’ve been going through in the past two games are as good as any put on by the well-known bands of Illinois, Michigan and that memorable S.M.U. bunch. The improvement is all due to the hard work of Mr. Hope, the new director. Old timers were also surprised by the twists of the cheerleaders. Something new has been added and it looks like the centennial is off to a great start.
THEY'RE AT IT AGAIN
Last summer it was baseball and now it’s football. Vince Commisa is again commissioner, this time in charge of interhall football, and he is doing the same fine job. Mr. Scannell will be at a loss to find someone to replace him. We all should give him a big vote of thanks, especially when we consider that injuries are down to a new low, even though it has taken a period of 25 minute calisthenics each day to do it. Most of the boys in Zahm last year are in Dillon this year so Bill Stewart, codirector of football, is warning everyone to dig in and get ready for a tough game. Zahm was league champ last year.
We are going to have a player of the week for inter-hall ball announced in this column, even though we will be a few days late in naming him. Directors Commisa and Stewart are going to be judges and they promise not to be partial. Saturday the Varsity started without its coach but came through anyhow. Sorin had the same trouble Sunday with the same result. Coach Dudley was un
able to be present when Sorin attacked Breen-Phillips and Sorin had lost one game already so things looked dark. Ed Callahan substituted for Dudley and doped out a quick way to win. The first play was a sleeper, Madden to Breska, worth exactly one touchdown.
This was the spark that set the game moving, for the Sorin Zephyrs kept moving and Kremer, Ryan, and Melton hit the line for all it was worth. Madden’s line bucks were nearly all successful and when on defense the line held like iron. The board of strategy has chosen Bob Madden as the player of the week. The final score was 26-0.
Now I’ll tell one: N. D. 20; Pre-Flight 19.
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY
WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
Special Prices to Students and V-7!
American Shoe Service
New, Modem Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend. Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D.
M. J. Thornton. M.D.
19
And Everything You'll Need to Complete Your Outfit
NAVY MEN!
AT GILBERT’S LOW PRICES
fydzMJ&uM B^andl^ at the Same. P^ice?
HICKEY FREEMAN NAVAL OFFICERS' UNIFORMS
DOBBS NAVAL OFFICERS1 CAPS
ARROW SHIRTS AND COLLARS
CALL US — WE'LL DELIVER
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S


20
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies-
Short Shots from Sport Spots
Bill Reynolds
King Football has finally taken the spotlight from baseball and now should be ready to settle down to business. The first two weeks of terrific upsets can be blamed on the change of the moon. Last Saturday’s underdog victories can be put in the records as the bad day that comes once a year for the big boys. There’s nothing left to blame future upsets on so if tomorrow brings the same kind of results as the previous three Saturdays have, the “big boys” will have to take a back seat for the remainder of the season. Of the 20 teams which were picked by the experts to be the tops for the season only three are still undefeated and untied: Georgia, Santa Clara, and Alabama. . '. . Three teams that were not reckoned with in the preseason forecasts, Georgia Tech, Illinois, Ohio State, and Wisconsin, are now leading the parade along with the three undefeated teams that were chosen to be among the top-flight. . . .
Notre Dame’s opponents have a composite season record of 21 wins,'11 losses, and two ties. . . . Only three hold perfect records: Illinois, Georgia Tech, and the Seahawks, who this department believes will go down to a 14-13 defeat in the stadium tomorrow. . . .
The All-American backs for 1942 were expected to be Evans, Hillenbrand, Kuzma, and Sinkwich. Sinkwich and Hillenbrand have certainly lived up to expectations. . . . Evans, and Kuzma, due to their injuries haven’t even had their names in the line-ups, let alone the headlines. ... On this basis it might be said that only half the power available in collegiate football ranks is usable.
The Courtrights, father and son, will be the dominating forces in Michigan wrestling this winter. . . . Son Bill, outstanding 165-pounder, is the wrestling team’s captain, and the father, Ray, who is the Wolverine’s golf coach, has been drafted to serve as coach of the grap-plers this season. . . . Bernie Crimmins changed from halfback to fullback to guard, Harry Wright made it from fullback, to quarter, to guard. Tom Burns, Duke senior, has made his changes in just the reverse. . . . An end as a sophomore, he was shifted to guard last season and is now quarterbacking the Blue Devils. . . . Burns did quite a bit of changing in high school, too, playing halfback, fullback, center and end. . . .
Michigan has scored six touchdowns in three games, each six-pointer was marked up by a different man. . . . Notre Dame’s six touchdowns have each been scored by a different player. . . .
PALAIS ROYALE
presents
to its regular Saturday evening patrons
LOUIS ARMSTRONG AND
HIS ORCHESTRA
85c per person (tax incl.) 9-1
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Business end social sue* c.ess depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp .••treat the real cause of receding hairline. Free examination. Treatments $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
k HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
413 City National Bank Bld?.
Buy with Confidence
South Bend's
Leading Jeweler
Why be tortured by uncomfortable binding shorts?
Arrow Shorts have no center seat to chafe you. Go to the
"Men's Corner"
for ARROW SHORTS AND UPPERS
MAIR AT COUIMLX
21
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
NAVAL MEN PREFER
ARROW SHIRTS
Official Arrow White Neckband Shirts with French Cuffs
All Sizes and Sleeve Lengths
$2.25
Official Arrow Duncan Collars
Official Arrow Black Ties
25c
$1
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
M‘X
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
------------SAVE TIME-------------------
Phone 3-1104, tell us your requirements, and your package will be held until you are ready to pay for it. Assure yourself of your requirements by phoning immediately.
FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR QUARTERS
M'X ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
Southeast Corner Across from Bus Terminal
Look for Our Sign When You Get Off the Bus
22
Music Quiz Sans Music Adds to Radio Program
An already hopeless situation hit a new low in the local Radio Studio last Saturday when the Notre Dame Quiz ♦ Show took up the policy of tormenting its contestants just as it has been doing '' its listeners for so long.
*• According to one of the three people who comprised the studio audience, a round of musical questions was being asked of a quartet of sufferers on the answering end of the show. The quizmaster at the time was Prof. Tom Cooney, who recently has been subbing for v Dave Curtin, master of. ceremonies at the Saturday “Player of the Day” show. Cooney quizzed each contestant on the title of a particular popular tune that was being played in the studio. The hitch came in the fact that the records were going over the air from inside the sound-proof engineering booth, so that no one in the outside studio could hear what was being played, though the radio audience could. Now how do Cooney and Downey, who share the job of asking the questions, expect'contestants to tell the names of songs they can’t even hear?
The funny part of the whole thing was that the contestants were able to guess the tunes! Guess the tunes? Sounds more like Cooney and Downey acquainted the contestants with the answers before going on the air!
Another queer angle of the Saturday frolic was the method used in enticing
innocent people to participate in the show At 4 minutes to 5 (the show goes on -the air- at. five o’clock) Downey was seen standing- outside the engineering-building soliciting- sophomores and their Cotillion dates as they passed by from the football game. Any and all pleas and promises are made to whomever will condescend to climb the three flights to the studio for the program. With one minute to go, two unsuspecting couples were ushered in and subjected to the humiliation of having their names connected with the program that day. Even the scheduled announcer did not show up.
Delicious and Refreshing,
“We’ve been ‘goin’ steady’ a long time, you and I. You see. I’m a symbol of the life-and sparkle of Coca-Cola. Therefore, I speak for Coke. I like your company. I offer something more than a thirst*
quenching drink. It’s refreshing. Yes siree...it’s got that extra something you can’t get this side of Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get together. Make it a Coke date.”
“How about I a Coke date
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE
COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING WORKS, 1107 Beyers Avenue Tel. 4-3186
So some fellow loitering around the studio was given the announcer’s script to prepare to read over the air 30 seconds before show time. Probably the first time he had ever laid eyes on the script. That’s what you call a well organized, planned program!
As a final fluke to cap the already pyramid of blunders piled high throughout the 20-minute program, one of the question-firers plugged the wrong sponsor. It seems the Palace Theatre supplies the program with free passes for the contestants and those who contribute
F
23
COMMUNICATIONS
... directing arm of combat
the questions used. Last week, however, the Palace finally smartened up and took a powder as far as the show was concerned. The Granada was evidently promptly hooked in its place as sponsor, and Saturday the two features playing there had been plugged on the quiz program. But, sure enough, as the two prodigies were going off the air, one of them shouted “Be sure and see those swell shows at the Palace!’’ Now, it is rumored the program has lost another sponsor.
Lost?
Borrowed?
Stolen?
1
and Western Electric equipment goes to every battle front
Army planes fly and fight with radio command sets. Radios ride in tanks to coordinate mechanized operations. Army commanders get reports and give orders over field telephones, wire and   switchboards. Naval vessels use announcing systems, telephones and radio.
A major source of this specialized equipment is Western Electric—for 60 years manufacturer he Bell System—dedicated today to meeting the need for equipment that delivers fighting words to fighting men.,
a
Since the beginning of the semester -several valuable reference books have disappeared from the Reference Room of the University Library. Others have been mutilated or torn from careless useage. As it is practically impossible to < replace these special books at any price the cooperation of all students is urged in handling books.if Notre Dame is to maintain a complete reference library.
It is believed that some students may have temporarily borrowed these books without going through the process of ' having them stamped out on their library cards. Following is a list of the missing books.
“Basic Works of Aristotle,” three copies missing.
“Works of Aristotle” vol. 8, “Meta- J physics.”
“Principles of Politics,” two copies missing.	;
“Encyclopaedia Britannica,” vol. 11 of 11 ed.	h
“Dictionary of National Biography,” 1 vol. missing.
If you know anyone who has any copy of the above, or where they may be found, please return them to the library. < No questions asked.
24
Western Electric
ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS
Location of Bertelli's
Photo Baffles Students j
The big question floating around the campus this week was “Where was the picture of Bertelli and the girl taken?”
Collier’s magazine ran a three-page j article on Bertelli last week written by William Cullen Fay, former managing ; editor of Scholastic. Decorating the : first page of the interesting article were two pictures, one with Bert posed in mid- i air for a long pass, the other showing ~ the football bombardier sharing a soda d with a feminine friend. Everyone knew । the picture of hijn passing was taken on Cartier field, but no one seemed to
u 1
4
recognize the background of the drugstore photo.
4 i( When Bert simplified things by telling an inquirer that the picture was taken
£ in the “Huddle,” the fellow laughed it off as a good joke but not a satisfactory . answer. With a little explanation things a turned out all right: Bert didn’t mean the Notre Dame huddle; he was refer-ring to the soda shop, also called the “Huddle,” across from John Adams high 1‘ school in South Bend. (The girl was Irene Baker of Washington high school.)
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 18) game. Two years on the track squad, and three years each on the basketball and baseball teams rounded out his busy athletic high school years. He, like Ziemba, received 11 monograms while at Du Pont.
“I could say “Notre Dame” before'^ “Mommy” or “Daddy,” attests Tommy. / “With my father and four uncles, all ex-Notre Dame football men, you can see why I am here today.”
Tom started as a right halfback on the Irish frosh squad, jumped to the left end station as a sophomore, back to right half last year, and he is finishing as a left halfback. He justified the coaches’ choice as Hering Medal winner for pass catching by snatching two passes for touchdowns last year.
Tom is a member of the Monogram club, and treasurer* of the Philadelphia club. He was vice-president of his sophomore class.
His idol is Jacques Maintain, famous French philosopher. His music department favorites are: Andre Kostelanetz, Alvino Rey, and Glenn Miller, in that order. But roomie, John Doerr, mentions some humming bird down at old Sweet Briar in Virginia that Tommy sings for. When he’s not pushing a golf ball around the Notre Dame course, or doing a little interhall swimming (he was 50-yard free style champion), Tom likes to go sailing, taking a volume of poems by T. S. Eliot.
Tom is looking for the Michigan outfit this year. Back in 1909, Harry Miller, Tom’s father, scored all 11 Notre Dame points — (In those days a touchdown counted only five points). — as the Irish surprised the highly touted Wolverines, 11-3. For 33 years Notre Dame and Michigan athletic relationships have lain dormant, but on the 14th of November they will be renewed, and Tommy vows he is going to carry on in the true Miller fashion.
It's Adlers tor Arrows!
Picture yourself in the authentically styled new Arrow White from Arrow-Headquarters. They’re tops for Fall . . . See them tomorrow.
If you’re “fit to be tied” with shorts that hitch and bind you, change to Arrow Shorts, with the patented seamless crotch construction . . . there’s no binding or chaf-ing, and there’s plenty of room! The Arrow Sanforized label is assurance that the garment will stay your correct size. (Fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Get Arrow Shorts -today!
Tops, 55c up Shorts, 75c up
★ WV U. i WAt iONDS AND STAMM >
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR . SPORT SHIRTS
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank A. King
When I read Aesop’s fable about the stupid goat who jumped into the pit and then couldn’t get out of it. I could never see how anyone could be so silly. Never did I realize that I should some day be in a like position. The trouble with Billy was that he leaped before he looked. Well, after a fashion, that seems to be exactly what happened to me.
Last Friday the Scholastic carried an item which roused wrath among various
The filly on the right says she’s casting off in a flurry because her date has borrowed a bus and they’re heading out to the drive-in for two Pepsi-Colas.
groups here on the campus. It seems that the sore spot was a column called disc-cussion. As any fool can plainly see, I have no connection with that column. However, to get on, the writer, one Frank A. King, made some very derogatory remarks about the orchestra chosen for the Sophomore Cotillion. These remarks were directed at no one but Eddy Howard. And, here is the way that the writer arrived at his conclusions.
One night, not so long ago he was sitting in his room listening to the radio when he was jarred out of his seat with
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you get $10. If we don’t, you get a rejection slip. Mail slang to College Department, Pepsi-Cola Company Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers from coast to coast.
the most awful discord heard since Guy Lombardo organized his band (?). He leaned over and put down his glass of b . . . er . . . uh . . . milk and listened to see who was responsible for such a nasty conglomeration of sound waves. Finally an announcer recovered his senses and blurted out between boos and hisses, “This is the music of Eddy Howard and his orchestra.”
From that time on Eddy has another fan . . . me. However, my fanaticism was one of disgust rather than admiration. The tempus fidgeted and here I was back at school. Then I heard the awful news: Eddy Howard for the Cotillion!
Immediately I sat down and said exactly what I thought of the aforementioned, arranged for the disposal of my remains and wrote out a will. I then decided to go to the Cotillion to get it over with quicker.
Comes the night of the Cotillion and Mr. Howard to the Palais Roi/ale, and Messrs. Murphy, Cusick and Leahy to my room. By some quip of fate I happened to be out and heard from those three worthies only indirectly until I went to the Palais. It was there that I heard not only Murphy and Leahy but also Mr. Howard.
What the first two said is not for this column; but what Mr. Howard did is.
Not to be a B.M.O.C. let it be said that I have been at a good share of the dances here at school since my freshman year. Eddy Howard, with the positive exception of Vaughn Monroe and Larry Clin-’ ton and the possible exception of Al Donahue, gave the finest evening’s entertainment of any of the visiting- maestros.
His music was very easy to dance to and pleasant to listen to. His arrangement of “In the Good Old Summertime” gave all the jive fans exactly what they . wanted and the sweet music lovers had many opportunities to sigh.
He featured many good “jump” tunes and many of the other type, and thus provided everybody with a good time. Over the radio he gave preference to sweet numbers as the great majority of people like that better but when he wasn’t playing for future jobs, he was quite fair to each kind of music lover.
During the interim between the first time that I heard him and the night of the Cotillion, Eddy Howard made a smart move indeed. He fired all those persons responsible for the first impression and hired a completely new outfit. I judged him on the first impression, not knowing that he had completely changed his personnel. The first band he had played either flat or sharp, the ride men were playing off the chord and they made a general mess of things. The second was on a par with Bob Chester or the Mac-Farland Twins and certainly a lot better than I gave them credit for.
. Yawn
26
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
LN A CLASS
By H/MSElf 4^
Da.CRABOW
I THE Pie	PIPE |
MADE BY M. LINKMAN A CO.
BREAKING IN NO BITE NO BITTER TASTE
FOR VICTORY
U S WAR BONDS I STAMPS
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine Pne-Smo/i»l every dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
"ONWARD TO VICTORY"
(Continued from page 14)
Flyers that they will he in for a busy afternoon.
At this writing, the result of head coach Frank Leahy’s visit to the Mayo Clinic is not known but, it is rumored, the coach’s health took a sharp turn upward Saturday as his squad battled with the thought of “one for Leahy” driving them on.
The Indian game did not sneak by without new additions to the Irish hospital list. Tom Miller and Jim Mello were forced to leave the game with ligament injuries, the extent of which were not known as this was written. On the brighter side, assistant coach Ed McKeever unveiled Ed Tobin, a guard, and Corwin Clatt, a fullback, two sophomores who look capable of taking up the slack created if Miller and Mello are unable to play tomorrow. Tobin replaced Harry Wright midway in the game and turned in a great performance backing up the left side of the five-man line. Fullback “Corny” Clatt gave the Irish some badly needed power in their ground attack. “Corny’s” drive and determination brought cries of “Moose” from the crowd as they saw the likeness of Milt Piepul cracking the line wide open.
Despite a decisive win over the West Coast squad, it must be remembered that Stanford has yet to win its first game
Parker - Winterrowd’s
4th ANNUAL FOOTBALL CONTEST
Taitored
FREE £65 ADLER-ROCHESTER SUIT
(or Navy Officer's Uniform or Coat)
Guess the total points scored by or against Notre Dame in ’42. Use the official ballot that has been distributed to you.
All entries must be in by October 23
PARKER-WINTERROWD
llSyz-liy^/z N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
Eddie Dore 238 Alumni
Captain George Murphy
238 Alumni
Bob Kuipers
114 Alumni
It Pays to Patronize "Scholastic" Advertisers
and can not be regarded as a true test. Tomorrow the Hawks come in with stars three deep in every position and just aching to knock the Irish off. Notre Dame is the underdog and, as in previous years, a general warning can be sent out — “Look out, you Hawks, or you’ll get your wings clipped!”
Probable lineups:
Notre Dame		Seahawks
Dove		T.K		 Bolger
Rymkus 			Xj.T.			Kulbitzki
McBride	.			L.G			Flick
Coleman 		n	Haman
Wright		-- 	T? ,m 				Gage
Neff				Schultz
Murphy		RR		 Ringer
Bertelli			QR	Evashevski
Livingstone -	T. FT	Schatzer
C. Miller	RTF	Paskvan
Cowhig		PR		 Benson
STANFORD BEATEN
and went to the Indian 16 after getting another of Bert’s accurate throws. One aerial was incomplete but another, Ber-telli to Murphy, gave Notre Dame a first down on the Stanford seven. Bob Livingstone crowned the afternoon’s scoring by taking a Bertelli heave for the touchdown. The score read 27 to 0 after Bert’s kick cleaved the goal posts.
As the last period came into being, Notre Dame drove down to the Stanford 13. There the Indians put up a defensive stand taking the ball away from the Irish on downs. The rest of the game was spent in Stanford territory.
27
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONISR LI3RARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
Copyright 19-42, Liccjtt & Mvaf Tobacco Co,
from Here
3
p /	to victory x
Its Chesterfield
the cooler, better-tasting, definitely milder cigarette
When there’s a job on hand a good cigarette is mighty comforting to have al0112:. .. and Chesterfields are on the beam idlh the one and only Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. It’s the combination that smokers quickly find to their liking and count on to give them everything it takes to Satisfy.
Make your next pack Chesterfield...enjoy more smoking pleasure ivith the full knowledge that regardless of price there is no better cigarette made today.
4
