... *0.
Volume 73
May 3, 1940
Number 24
THIS EVENING in Seniors Hold	the Rockne Memorial,
Ball Tonight	350 couples will swirl
gently through an old Havana setting, to the sweet strains of Larry Clinton and his band. Suave seniors and their charming ball guests will dance from nine o’clock in the evening until one o’clock tomorrow morning.
(See page 5) $
WEEKS of handshak-Students Go To ing and backslapping Polls Tuesday will pay dividends to the campus politicians when finals for all class elections are held next Tuesday in the basement of the dining halls. The Student Council, under President Jerry Donovan, will be in charge of the elections. (See page 6)
FRIENDS of Tom Lis-N.D. Senior Is ton, of Sorin and ChiBoard Member cago, send their regrets to The Collegiate Digest and Walter A. Scoville, Jr., University of Michigan Senior, but they must dispute the claim that Mr. Scoville is the youngest member of the Chicago Board of Trade; the honor rightfully belongs to Notre Dame’s Mr. Liston.
.	(See page 7)
NOTRE Dame’s track Trackmen Open team will open its out-Home Schedule door home season tomorrow afternoon, on the Cartier Field track, playing host to well-balanced squads from the University of Wisconsin and Northwestern University. Wisconsin is a slight premeet favorite.	(See page 12) . ..
Albert Spalding, celebrated concert violinist, who appears at the . ' . University Fieldhouse tonight. (See page 6)
A QUIET RETREAT. . . . WHEN APRIL SNOWS BRING MAY FLOWERS TO GROTTO.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
COLLEGE PARADE By JACK WILLMANN
He knows no virtue his sweetheart could lack.
In a croivd she's the leader, she 'rules like a lord
Into the Den
Of Northwestern’s Wildcats we went. It seems that our nine had a baseball date with the Purple nine. The total score was nine, but the distribution was poor. From oui- vantage point on the bench there was much to be seen. Packed stands, co-eds, convertibles, sunshine, a Yankee scout, a huge tent, and pop salesmen formed a background.
Aftei' escaping batting practice with the loss of nothing more than a comfortable perspiration, one of the little fellows who come out early sized us up for the softie that any columnist is. His line of conversation went something to the effect that his sister knows Rex Ellis’ girl friend, that he likes to see Notre Dame win.... especially against Northwestern...'. that he’s a Catholic... that his dad went to N.D.... that he expects to go there.... that his team needs a baseball.... that I could give him an old one. So another gray hair on the head of Mac.
On the Books
Desk Sergeant: “A college student, eh?” Prisoner: “Yes, sir.”
Patrolman: “It’s a stall. I searched his pockets and found money in them.”
News That Is News
Yearly does the Associated Press deem sufficiently newsworthy the choice of some Hollywood star as the companion that some group of college men • would like to be marooned with on a desert island. Sufficiently newsworthy to the Wisconsin Daily Cardinal was the result of a similar poll among all the men on that campus that the story rated page three. The Badger men did not choose Joan Bennett, Hedy LaMarr, Lana Turner, or Deanna Durbin—they want the individual girl friend—a Wisconsin co-ed in this story. And those boys have something in their choice, but what results would a Scholastic survey show on the same topic. This being Senior Ball weekend, you might get some unofficial returns if you look about you. BUT no staring.... for more than five minutes, anyway.
Off the Grape Vine
Walsh, 407: “Please, father, could I have a weekend?”
Rector: “Ah, yes, your grandmother, I suppose!”
407: “Exactly, father, she is making her first parachute jump this weekend.”
More Sociology
Helen: “Sometimes you seem so manly and rugged, yet on other occasions you act absurdly effeminate. What’s the story?”
Junior: “Heredity. You see, half of my ancestors were men and the other half women.”
Would that She Were Mine
It’s lovely to look at her sleek round shape
And when he is with her the fellows all gape .
He’s proud to be with her—“To say she’s all mine,”
For she’s just about perfect, she’s almost divine.
She goes where he tvants to and never talks back,
She’s his leather upholstered convertible Ford.	—Tatler
Runners—Social Animals
Glenn Cunningham ran his last mile, and now prepares to do lecture work. Most athletes regard track as the least personal and most individual of all major sports. But at Lehigh University, famous miler Gene Venzke addressed the Junior class on the theme—track, from the athletic and sociological points of view. What Gene said we don’t know. He made his speech last night, and we went to press last Sunday — on time. What he might have said we can only conjecture, and for yoxr sake we decline.
In Re—The Ball
A wall-flower these days is a girl who dances every dance.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
CAMPUS OPINION
Top of the Week
The old Dipsy Doodle.
Why Girls Refused Invitations
High School Prom on same night ......17
Can’t dance ...................  ...144
Working on a thesis ...............  23
Been to one before .................1-3
Don’t want to miss Bob Ripley.................. 0 “It’s a boys’ school” .................   1
Famous Last Words
My tenth steady was a real sweetheart and a good sport.... She couldn’t do enough for me._That’s why I left her—she couldn’t do enough for me.... The growing disregard for women is quite marked of late.... and if it continues there will be nobody left to like women except a few scattered men.... Joe Blow thinks we wnll never have a woman president because a president has to be over 35 years of age.
I now no longer squirm Remembering the worm Will get me in the end beyond all question
Yet I reserve the right To hope that every bite Will give the little beggar indigestion.
❖
Dots and Jots .
Aside to the Ball guests.... Don’t say that you saw Larry Clinton every night for a month at the College Inn.... and make your date take you to the caf for dinner so that you can look over and vice versa the gang that may invite you back next year.... rest assured that on Saturday you wnll have breakfast and dinner combined.... a custom that has now reached the status of tradition as well as economy.... And to the seniors ____don’t think your date is spoiled if she insists on going to the Oliver.... it may just be the perfume she’s using... Be helpful to your roommate.... when
he cleans up the floor clean up the floor with him.	•
News Flash ...
After prowling around the infirmary for days, an unidentified student was caught and immediately operated on for appendicitis.... The student is resting comfortably and it is now believed that he did have appendicitis.
Why Girls Accepted
Have aunts in Mishawaka ......... 3
Curiosity .....................   9
Paying an election bet...........21
Nomadic ...................   ...33
On their spring circuit .......  56
“It’s a boys’ school” ........  287
(Those few who had no reason for acceptance now, will have, one later, -no
doubt,)	’
Caf Smoke
Overheard in the caf: “West Point is farther up the river than Sing Sing and has much nicer uniforms” .... It seems that tails are not exactly approved in the dining halls.... a freshman ran off a test case for the seniors last week and ended up carrying a tray.... he walked out with a bodyguard of 255 whose knees were shaking so that plaster fell as they passed Badin.
Bottom of the Week
The males in all their gorgeous feathers Are not so comfy in warmish weathers.
Mr. Week (a caricature)
Question of the Week: Are you in favor of the change from streetcars to buses?
Carroll—Andy Cherney: “I am not entirely in favoi' of a change to busses because it would mean an increase in price. Then too, the fellows can readily see the old Notre Dame streetcar coming for two or three blocks. If they are on the other side of the street they can dash over and catch it. A bus, on the other hand, is not as visible at night as a streetcar, and you can’t see which bus it is until it’s right there. If buses were installed it would be an impediment to the present habits of the students in catching a streetcar.”
Brownson—Tom Richards: “With a small increase in cost the present system would be improved by 100%. A bus could probably cut off about five minutes between school and town and do away with the waiting around at the end of the line. Besides this, they would be far more comfortable for the students, even though the seating arrangement is a little different. The fellows would probably tend to be a little more orderly in the bus.”
Zahm—Robert Langenfeld: “I am definitely in favor of the proposed change from streetcars to buses. The old cars they had on this line felt as though they were going to leave the track or come apart any minute. Buses will introduce a certain additional element of -safety which the old streetcars lacked. A long waiting period will also be avoided by the fact that the buses will cut down the time between school and town.”
Breen-Phillips—George Morrow: “Although you won’t be able to hear and see them coming a mile away, as is the case with the streetcars, the new bus system will provide a quicker, safer and more comfortable means of transportation between school and South Bend. When the new system is innaugurated there will be no more throngs waiting around at the end of the line for ten minutes waiting for the car or cabs to come.”
Morrissey—Sam Garro: “In this day and age time is a big factor in our daily life. When we decide to go someplace we don’t want to wait around 15 minutes for a streetcar to come and then spend 15 more minutes in getting downtown. When the buses are put in next fall this unnecessary waiting will be eliminated. As soon as a bus comes, due to the rapidity of operation it will leave for town, thus doing away with a lot of waiting.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z188__________________________________________________________________________________________
Volume 73	May 3, 1940	Number 24
CORSAGE SALESMEN—POLITICIANS—JUST PLAIN SENIORS—BOW OUT TONIGHT
TONIGHT in the Rockne Memorial, 350 couples will swirl gently through an old Havana setting, to the sweet strains of Larry Clinton and his band. Suave seniors and their charming guests will dance from nine o’clock in the evening until one o’clock tomorrow morning. A candlelight supper in the west dining hall, and a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, at the Chain-o-Lakes country club, are other senior ball week-end activities.
The first candlelight supper in senior ball history will be served at 7:30 o’clock this evening. String ensemble music and individual waitress service feature this unusual departure from regular dining hall custom. The price of the dinner is included in the ten dollar charge for ball tickets, announces Paul Helmuth, chairman for dinner arrangements. No table reservations are made in advance, but parties may get together at the dining hall and engage a table. Wrap checking facilities will be available in the basement of the dining hall, and arrangements have also been made for transportation to the Memorial in case of rain..
The honorary title of Queen of the Ball will go this year to Miss Betty Desloge, St. Louis, Mo., guest of Walt Wueb- • bold, general chairman of the dance. President of the Class Harry Boisvert, will escort Miss Margaret Kotte of St.
LAMY CUNTON PLAYS TONIGHT AT ANNUAL
SENIOR BALL
❖
Mary’s College. Vice President Norv Hunthausen’s guest will be Miss Frances Nash of South Bend. Jack Pindar, class treasurer, will have Miss Jayne Bunch of South Bend as his partner.
The Rockne Memorial, scene of the ball, has once more undergone a change for a school dance. Decorators have been busy this past week trying to simulate a Latin American setting in the large gymnasium. A patio in Havana with decorative balconies, palm groves, sandy beach, Cuban moon, and blue sea surrounding it will provide a beautiful setting for the 1940 senior ball. This year’s ball is the second to be held in the Memorial since its completion less than a year ago. Jim Shiely, chairman of the favors committee, announces that the ladies will be given as favors gold mesh, satin lined evening bags on which will be the familiar emblem of the University. Students attending the ball must be in their residence halls at two o’clock, C.S.T.
Dan Hushek, chairman of the patrons committee, has announced a list of 20
couples of patrons for the dance. The names of patrons and patronesses follow:
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Liston: Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin W. Bernard; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Shiely; Mr. and Mrs. Louis W. Hunthausen; Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Sanford; Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Hushek; Mr. Fred L. Morris and Miss Marcella Boisvert; Mr. and Mrs. Andrew A. Hellmuth; Dr. and Mrs. Joseph C. O’Gorman; Dr. and Mrs. William A. Pindar; Mr. and Mrs. Chris J. Flanagan ; Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Goff: Mr. and Mrs. Victor Boisvert: Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Kessing; Mr. and Mrs. James B. Gavan; Mr. and Mrs. Fred A. Morris; Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wuehhold; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Biagi: Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Ciccolella; and Mr. and Mrs. Louis Desloge.
On Saturday afternoon from two till five o’clock a tea dance will be held at the Chain-o-Lakes country club. Pat Goff, tea dance chairman, has arranged to have Dick Anderson and his orchestra to play for the dance. Seniors must be back in their, residence halls at 12:15 o’clock, C.S.T., on Saturday night. A special Mass for the convenience^ of ball guests will be read at 10 o’clock Sunday morning in the Alumni hall chapel.
Ten committees have been working for the past several weeks in close cooperation with the general chairman, Walton Wuebbold, in order that this year’s senior ball may run as smoothly and beautifully as those of the past. The committees and the chairman of each are:
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BELLE OF ST. MARY'S
Miss Betty Des Loge, Ball Queen
Tea Dance: Kenneth Goff, chairman; Tom Hammond, Burley Johnson, Robert Connolly, Jim , Foley and Joe Gerwe. Music: Kevin O’Garman, chairman; Edward Hannan, Paul Hellmuth, Phil Carroll, Bob Beaudine. Decorations: Tom Liston, chairman; Jack Rogers, Mark Ertel, Jack DeMoss, Joe Thesing, Paul Chaput, Kenneth Ober-bruner. .Arrangements: Christy Flanagan, Anthony Bernard, co-chairmen; Jim Moore, Jim Donoghue, George Wallace, John Ward, Pete Sheehan, Steve Coughlin. Favors: Jim Shiely, chairman; Henry Dowd, George Ward, Thad Harvey, Tom Lloyd, Joe Lavery, Charles Zegiob. Publicity: Mize Morris, chairman; William G. Fay, Don Foskett, Pat Gorman, John Ferne-ding. and Tom Ferneding.
Tickets: John Gavan, chairman; William Kennedy, Cecil Jordan, Bill Small, Charles Barrack, John L. Crane, and Joe Smalley. Programs: John Ciccolella; chairman; Robert Frost, Edward Jacobs, John Dean, Rex Ellis, John A. Kotte, Edward Huston. Invitations: Albert Kessing, chairman; Bob Rothacker, Nick Pesut, Dave Bernard, Chuck Magner, Tom Moran, Dick Kelly. Patrons: Dan Hushek, chairman; Tom J. McKenna, Bernard Teah, Tony Gentle, Tom McCarthy, John Donohue, and William H. O’Brien.
Mrs. Henry B. Froning
Buried This Morning
The Scholastic extends sympathy to Professor Henry B. Froning, head of the departments of chemistry and chemical engineering, on the death of his wife, who died in Epworth hospital, Monday evening, following a ten day illness. The funeral mass for Mrs. Froning was of-- fered this morning in Sacred Heart Church, by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, celebrant.
' Mrs. Froning leaves her husband, Pro
fessor Froning, three sons, J. Fendall, Ned and Henry Froning, and two daughters, Mildred and Laura Froning, of South Bend; her mother Mrs. Joseph Fendall Cain, of Washington, D.C.; two sisters, Mrs. Thomas W. Green, of New York City, and Miss Margaret Cain, of Washington; and four brothers, Harvey Cain, J. Fendall Cain and H. Edward Cain, of Washington, and Paul Cain of New York City.
Mrs. Froning was born Mary Mildred Cain in Washington, Jan. 7, 1890, and came here 20 years ago from Detroit, Mich. She was educated in Washington by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and was married in 1915 in Washington to Prof. Froning. She was a member of the Schuyler Colfax chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, and of the Ladies of Notre Dame, an organization composed of wives of the University faculty.
Albert Spalding Concert
Tonight In Field House
Tonight at 8:00 o’clock in the University Fieldhouse, Albert Spalding, violinist, accompanied by the South Bend symphony orchestra, ■will close Music Week festivities. Mr. Spalding, one of the foremost violinists of America, will play three violin solos: “La Fontaine D’Are-thusa,” by Fzymanowski; “I Phalipti,” by Paganini; and “En Bateau,” by De-bussey. His accompanist, Andre Benist, accompanied by the symphony orchestra, will play one selection, Bruch’s G. Minor Concerto. The concert is free to all Notre Dame students.
The Fifth Annual Music Week had a busy and well-filled schedule. Wednesday evening, Ezio Pinza, basso of the Metropolitan Opera, presented a concert recital to a large and appreciative audience in the University Fieldhouse. On Tuesday evening the Notre Dame symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, presented a concert in Washington Hall. The program of classical music was arranged by Notre Dame students of orchestration classes. Washington Hall was filled to capacity Monday evening when the Notre Dame glee club officially inaugurated Music Week. The new choral number, “Men of Notre Dame,” built around the Victory March, and arranged by Mr. Pedtke, was well recieved by the audience. Other numbers presented by the glee club were selections from Gilbert and Sullivan light operas, and a special arrangement of “Liebestraum?’
—John Powers
Class Elections Tuesday
In Dining Hall Basement
Finals for all class elections will be held next Tuesday in the basement of the dining halls, it was announced today by the Student Council president, Jerry Donovan.
William E. Cotter, of New Rochelle, N. Y., and Charles E. Dillon, Butler, Pa., both from Dillon Hall, have announced their candidacy for the presidency of the class of 1941.
Ambrose F. Dudley, Philadelphia, Pa., and John J. McHale, of Detroit, Mich., both from Brownson Hall, are the leading candidates for the presidency of next year’s sophomore class.
In the race for vice president, Thomas S. Miller, Wilmington, Del., and Owen A. McGoldrick, Jr., of Philadelphia, from Cavanaugh and Brownson Hall respectively, were chosen in the primaries.
Charles J. Butler, Chicago, Ill., and Breen-Phillips hall, and Paul M. Malloy, Tulsa, Okla., and Cavanaugh Hall, are candidates for secretary.
Samuel McQuail, Manhassett, N. Y., and Breen-Phillips Hall, and Robert H. Owens, of Kansas City, Mo., and Brownson Hall, are up for treasurer.
Signs of election: Posters cover the campus.'The Huddle is impartial, papering its walls ■with candidates of every party. All kinds of blotters are free for the asking.—Tom Powers
LEADS SENIORS
Walton Wuebbold, Ball Chairman
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
"Dust Be My Destiny" Tomorrow's Film Fare
A series of sociological themes that run the gauntlet from “grapes” to “mice” is the new cycle of type entertainment that the movie producers have set before us. One of the starters in this new trend comes to the Washington Hall screen tomorrow night. “Dust Be My Destiny,” starring Priscilla Lane and John Garfield, is another plea for social recognition of the boys from Hell’s Kitchen.
The story is an old one. A tough guy from the gashouse section is forced into an eye-for-an-eye existence by the environment that society has created for him. His girl pleads with him to do what is right. He tries to, but that same cruel society won’t let him. A tasty bit of moral message in the script summarizes the purpose of the photoplay. When brought before a judge on a minor offense, Garfield is asked if he thinks the world owes him a living. The sharp reply is: “No, but the world owes me the right to make a living.”
The merit of the picture lies in its dialogue—real lines for real situations. Garfield was easy to take in this role when the show was marketed a few months ago. But now the capable Mr. Garfield has surpassed Rooney in being typed. At least the goo-goo-eyed Hardy boy is getting a few chances to break away from “typitis.” If tomorrow night’s seat-chaser wasn’t already prejudiced, however, he would probably say that this is the best thing that the former Theatre Guild player has done since he left the stage. Priscilla Lane overcomes the fact that she was miscast and turns in a good supporting performance.
If you’re not anti-Garfield in such roles by now—you’ll like it.
—Edmund Butler
Dr. Doan Of Lehigh To Address Metallurgists
Next Wednesday evening at 8:45 o’clock, Dr. Gilbert E. Doan of Lehigh University, will address the Notre Dame chapter of American Society for Metals in the Engineering auditorium. His subject will be, “The Metallurgy of Welding Processes.” A dinner in the faculty room of the dining hall will precede the lecture.
The address of Dr. Doan will briefly review the fundamental principles of the various welding process, the metallurgy involved, and the most recent advances in connection with these processes.
Liston Is Youngest on Chicago Boardl
Notre Dame Senior Refutes 'Collegiate Digest,' Shatters Claim of Scoville, Jr., Michigan '40
Friends of Tom Liston of Sorin and Chicago, send their regrets to The Collegiate Digest and Walter A. Scoville, Jr., University of Michigan senior, but they must dispute the claim that Mr. Scoville is the youngest member of the Chicago Board of Trade; the honor rightfully belongs to Notre Dame’s Mr. Liston.
New Boarder—Tom Liston
Last week The Digest carried a story and picture of Mr. Scoville, Jr., announcing that he was the youngest member. Someone on our campus detected the error and a little investigation disclosed that the youngest member of the Chicago Board was Mr. Liston who has the following claims to this distinction. Tom is 21 years old and has held a seat on the Board since Dec. 26, 1939, while the Michigan claimant is 22 and was made a member during the recent Easter holidays. In fact the Notre Dame accounting major is the youngest member ever admitted to the Board.
Membership on the Board does not solve all life’s problems but it is a good start. There are 1,750 seats on the exchange. Prices for seats have ranged from $2,500 to an all-time high of $65,000. They are sold to the highest bidder who, to be eligible, must have an unimpeachable character and credit record. Only one seat may be owned by each person.
In Tom’s case he will start out inde
pendently, acting as a broker for individuals and firms. But first he must establish himself as a reliable operator which he will do by concluding satisfactory transactions with his own capital before others are likely to entrust him with theirs. With Tom’s three summers’ experience this should not be too difficult. In addition grain-trading will come easier to Tom since his father is also an established broker and member of the Board.
Brokers’ profits are based on a straight brokerage fee and market trading. As with most June graduates, the returns will not be the greatest at the beginning but an established broker may expect a return of an average of about $8,000 per year. There are expenses connected with the privilege of operating which amount to about $750 per year in the form of dues, insurance, etc.
Work on the Board consists mostly in making fast decisions on which may hinge considerable sums of money. Clerical work and routine matters are taken care of by assistants who hope one day to be large operators. One such beginner who reached the top in phenomenal fashion was Jesse Livermore who had cleared $1,000,000 at the age of 22.
Other Notre Dame men who hold seats are: ex-gridders Jack McCarthy and Jack Sullivan, both of the class of ’38, and Walter Cahill of ’34. In fact Jack McCarthy’s father and Mr. Scoville, Sr., are partners in a brokerage firm of which Jack and Mr. Scoville, Jr. will be junior partners. Tom Liston and the younger Scoville are good friends and anticipate harmonious business relations.
The youngest board-member seems well fitted for his new position, having a good appearance, pleasant personality, and suitable education, plus other interests which favor success. He is a resident of Chicago and a graduate of Loyola Academy High school. Among other things adorning the walls of his room are a pair of silver skates he won as first prize in the Evanston Silver Skates tournament, of 1936. The same year he represented Notre Dame and took third place in the 440 yard event in the National Indoor Championship races held in Chicago. He won his B-team monogram as right end, and when interviewed still had vivid memories of the Oldtimers’ game.—John Dinges
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE STUDENT FORUM
Construction of a Glider
By Edward A. Pratt
One of the least known branches of the College of Engineering is the department of aeronautical engineering. Yet more practical and constructive work goes on there than in any other department. Take, for instance, the most recent product of the department, the design and construction of a glider by Mr.
Edward A. Pratt Robert Eikenberry, instructor. Probably only half the engineering students know that the glider has been designed and that the actual construction of the fuselage has been started in the University’s service machine shop. And of those who have seen the fuselage mount up on the jig, only a few could have visualized the tremendous amount of work that went into the design, and the number of hours spent before the final detail drawing could be made. It has been estimated that something like 10,000 man-hours are required to complete the design for a commercial airplane; and at least half this total is required to design a glider.
Before any paper work can be done at all, there must be an idea. One has to estimate the shape, size, and number of details which will be required, their tentative positions for greatest efficiency, and their relative simplicity for ease of construction. Cost, too, has a very decided effect on the design, since all engineering work is a compromise between structural efficiency and financial economy. If one works from another design, the labor is shortened a great deal, but in an original design, everything must be worked out laboriously and completely, and a copy of all work must be submitted to the Civil Aeronautics Authority before the “Approved Type” certificate can be issued. In addition to these drawings and the necessary stress analyses, either graphical or analytical, static load tests must be performed on certain full scale sections to substantiate the work. These tests are usually confined to wing ribs, wing and tail control surfaces, and control systems. If any other part or parts of the structure should be of a new design for which analytical method of stress analysis has either not
been discovered, or not yet accepted by the C. A. A., proof of the strength of the structure must be submitted in the form of data obtained in actual tests. Tests are required for the control surfaces and systems because of the extreme danger incurred through improper design of these parts. Since they are the most important factors in stability considerations, any failure in operation would mean certain loss of the aircraft. Failures in these parts were a common occurrence in the early days of aviation, but through the wise rulings of the C. A. A., accidents of this type have decreased considerably.
If a glider is to be properly designed, a specification list must .first be drawn up which will state the number of people to be seated, the amount of equipment to be included, the landing speed, the gliding speed, and the stability, among other things. Since the glider is to be designed according to stringent specifications, it must meet at least the minimum requirements of the Civil Air Regulations, instituted by the C. A. A. in order to make aviation as safe as possible. Rules and regulations covering everything imaginable in the design and use of aircraft and equipment have been established by this body, and every article from the smallest bolt or fitting to the entire wing must conform to their minimum requirements before it will be passed by them as fit for general use.
After preliminary specifications have been decided upon, a working drawing is made, placing all of the equipment, as well as the pilot and passenger, in their planned position and according to their approximate dimensions. Then a balance diagram is drawn, finding the center of gravity of the entire aircraft from the known weights and assumed positions of the various parts. This step is necessary in order to place the wing in its correct position, so that the lifting power will act directly opposite the gravitational pull. If one knows the weight of the glider and assumes certain essentials, the wing area can be determined and a suitable type of airfoil section (wing profile) may be selected.
This preliminary analysis continues until obstacles appear, and it is found that the plane designed will not meet the required specifications. The design is then altered and the entire procedure
is repeated until specifications are met. And it is these setbacks that require a designer to be patient, for when he reaches these impasses, he must backtrack and begin a sort of compromise process in which he sacrifices one thing in order to obtain another. If the landing speed should finally be too high, the wing area must be increased, and the top . speed of the craft consequently decreased. If the weight should finally turn out to be greater than expected, either something must be left out to make up for this increase, or the ship must be completely re-designed. All in all, this process is a great deal trial and error, and any experience which the designer may fall back upon is of immeasurable help.
At this point the problem of stress analysis enters the picture. The primary structure, or that part which takes the major stresses, which in the fuselage of the glider would be the welded chromemolybdenum steel tubing, must be analyzed for loads on the truss members, so that the size of the members may be determined. This analysis is performed for a number of different flight and landing conditions, and the member is designed in accordance with the largest stress or load which would be placed upon it. Detail design of all the individual and collective parts continues, and at this point actual construction may commence. Mr. Eikenberry has reached this stage and fuselage construction has been almost completed. The rudder and elevator tubing has been welded and fastened to the fuselage framework by means of hinges, so that the empennage can be folded in transportation.
The wing shape and design has finally been decided upon after static load tests of the type of spar to be used, plus the leading third section of the wing, in order to assure that the spar will stand up under torsion. And work has begun in forming the ribs of the 36 foot wing span preparatory to actual assembly. Perhaps it won’t be too long before the first flight is made. When you see the sleek craft wheeling through the air, perhaps you will appreciate the amount of work required to make that flight possible.
Physics Department
This afternoon at 4:30 o’clock in Room 108, Science Hall, Dr. Gerhart Groet-zinger of the University of Chicago discusses “Some Photo-electric Phenomena in Semi-conductors,” before a Physics Colloquium. His talk will be preceded by a tea.
Last Tuesday morning a departmental seminar was held in the Chemistry building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
END OF THE LINE — TROLLEYS ON WAY OUT
The Old Order Changeth;
Buses for Streetcars
The trolley will rattle down Notre Dame avenue for the last time in June. Progress marches on, and so the street car must go. When the students of Notre Dame return for classes next fall the familiar street car will have been replaced by a stream-lined bus.
In the way of finances the price per ride will be raised from seven cents to ten.
Holy Father Praises
Work of Local Student
A communication was recently received from the Vatican City by Mr. Clarence Finlayson regarding his philosophical work, Intuicion del Ser. Mr. Finlayson had been a professor of philosophy at Catholic University of Chile, until his enrollment at the University of Notre Dame as a graduate student in philosophy. The communication translated from Spanish said, “The Cardinal Luigi Maglione, Secretary of State of ‘His Holiness,’ fulfills the venerated request to manifest to Mr. Clarence Finlayson of the Catholic University of Chile that the Holy Father thanks him wholeheartedly for the copy of Intuicion del Ser that he had offered and at the same time sending the Apostolic blessing.”
In Chile and throughout South America, especially in Catholic reviews, there were favorable comments regarding the text of the Intuicion del Ser. Besides this work, Mr. Finlayson has had published many works on topics of philosophy and
literature and also a group of articles on numerous other subjects. M. Jacques Maritain, widely-known French Catholic philosopher of today, and the Portugese philosopher, Vieira, sent him enthusiastic criticism on his work, Analytics of the Contemplation. Mr. Finlayson is correspondent for various South American magazines. A series of studies of the poetical works of Pablo Neruda by Finlayson will be published by the Catholic University of Bolivariana in the Republic of Colombia. Pablo Neruda was one of the greatest Spanish poets. All of these works were read in the auditorium of the Catholic University of Chile.
Mr. Finlayson is a member of the Pe. E. N. Club, an International Society of writers, of which Mr. Jules Romain is president. He also has close contact with the writers’ society of his country.
Lederle Will Discuss
Business Publications
On Wednesday afternoon in the north basement of the Library, Mr. Frank A. Lederle of the Haire Publishing company, will discuss “The Place of Business and Professional Papers in the Publications Field. Mr. Lederle will be the guest of the department of journalism and his lecture will be for the benefit of the members of Professor Thomas J. Barry’s advertising class. However, the lecture is open to all other students and faculty members who wish to attend. More than 1,400 business papers are now being published for specialized groups in the United States, and the organization represented by Mr. Lederle is outstanding in this publishing field.
Prof. Reyniers Returns From Nation-Wide Tour
Professor James A. Reyniers, head of the bacteriology laboratories at the University returned recently from a several weeks’ tour of universities in western and southeastern states, where he lectured and consulted on various scientific research problems.
Prof Reynier’s work took him to the universities of Washington, Oregon, Southern California, California at Los Angeles, California at Berkeley, Stanford, New Mexico, Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota and North Dakota State. In addition to these stops the Notre Dame bacteriologist visited the spotted-fever laboratories in Hamilton, Mont.
The southeastern tour took him to the universities of North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and to Georgia Tech., Duke and Vanderbilt. On March 23 he was a guest at the Boston Bacteriological Club, where he spoke on “The Isolation Principle and its Instrumentation in Experimental Science.” The Boston Bacteriological Club is the oldest society of its kind in America. Its membership is comprised of bacteriologists from universities and research centers in and around Boston.
Natural Law Articles
Appear In "The Lawyer"
The natural law as a philosophy of law is the subject matter of three main articles in the recent issue of The Latv-yer, quarterly of the College of Law. The three articles are by the Very Rev. Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Judson Crane, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh. Bishop O’Hara’s article, “The Natural Law,” is on scholastic ideas in natural law and its place in the field of jurisprudence; Father Miltner’s article is entitled, “The Philosophical Background of American Democracy”; and Professor Crane’s article, “Natural Law in the United States,” is a discussion of how natural law has been used in the determination of cases.
Included in the issue are ten articles by students of the College of Law and six book reviews, one of which is by Professor Daniel O’Grady. Students contributing to the magazine are: Joseph Nigro, Frank Bright, Edward Grogan, James Graham, John O’Connor, William Mahoney, John Savord, Lawrence Petro-shius, William Meyers, and John Wilson.
—William Welch
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay. Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Bernard Longo Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Mrs. Henry B. Froning
NOTRE i)AME mourns Mrs. Henry B. Froning. Although unknown to most of the students, Mrs. Froning was perhaps the most beloved of the greater Notre Dame family—those not connected with administration or instruction but, nevertheless, a real and integral part of the vast organization that makes up a college conununity. Devoted to her family, she quietly and calmly performed the duties of the traditional wife and mother—in a larger sense, however, she extended her interest, devotion and kindliness to all the families of the University faculty.
Mrs. Froning possessed the rare gift of bestowing friendship. She loved life and people, especially children.
Keenly aware of the difficulties that face families when they come to a strange community, Mrs. Froning made it her task to welcome them to their new surroundings, and did so with such sincerity and cordiality that today we may say that the “oneness” of our group is in large measure her accomplishment. In times of rejoicing her joy was manifested. With the coming of every new baby, the happiness of the parents she shared sincerely. She knew by name the sons and daughters of every teacher— likewise their birthdays. Every year at Christmas time she was the leading spirit in the party given in their honor under the auspices of the Ladies of Notre Dame.
When sickness or sorrow made their inevitable appearance, again Mrs. Froning was the first to assist, advise and to
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
John Patterson Promotion
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
console. The beautiful Christian virtue of compassion—fellow-feeling—was exemplified daily in her relations with all her friends, and with such reserve and dignity that she may worthily be cited as the modem portrayer of Christian charity.
Today all of us at Notre Dame join together in extending to Professor Froning and his family the same sincere sympathy and prayers that have been given so wholeheartedly to others on similar occasions by her whom we mourn.
—Earl F. Langwell
Ergo—No Go!
THE TWO men in army uniform stepped into the tree shadows of Walsh.... someone sprawled on the Alumni lawn flicked a cigarette into the dusk and said:
I hear that a couple of the philosophy profs say we have a moral obligation to get into this war on the side of the French and English—seems that John Bull Incorporated is fighting against the anti-Christian philosophy of Nazism and so on—and therefore, or should I say ergo, we’re morally obligated to join up .... well, it’ll take more than a syllogism to get me into one of those khaki suits.
Know how I feel? If I do have to fight I won’t think I’m fighting for anything—I’ll think I’m fighting because some people — some newspaper editors and politicians—made mistakes. That’s why this moral obligation stuff rubs me the wrong way. If England is so morally good and stuffed with principles why didn’t she declare war when Germany
moved into Austria or Czechoslovakia? And if she’s so concerned with stamping out anti-Christian philosophies why did she try so hard to beat Ribbentrop to that Russian Alliance?
England’s fighting because she wants to control the Continent. That’s'why she has been playing off Germany and France against one another all these years—and you can’t blame her for that. After all, we’ve got our Monroe Doctrine over here.... And I don’t want to seem as though I’m all against England, either. These Pro-German propagandists who are always crying up England’s territorial possessions don’t impress me. Sure, I know the Ghandi’s didn’t invite England to move in on India, but we didn’t say please when we grabbed off Texas—and some of Andy Jackson’s real estate deals down in Florida don’t bear looking into.
This whole thing’s too big for a major and minor premise solution. You read that the German people aren’t behind Hitler—but who writes the stuff—war correspondents who have to pass Allied censors—and refugees who have escaped or been thrown out of Germany. Seems to me the Germans weren’t ready for the democracy the Allies forced onto them— and Hitler came out of the breakdown of the democracy. Until the Germans throw Hitler from power I’ll have to believe the majority of Germans want him and that they’re behind him in fighting the war.
And how about this charge that Hitler is trying to stamp out Christianity and is persecuting Catholics and Jews? You don’t have to go back too far to the time when England and France did the same thing—and they may do it again tomorrow if it becomes politically advantageous. There are a few priests on this campus who didn’t fare too well in France, and they tell me the Holy Cross Congregation hasn’t been indemnified for a chunk of property the French grabbed.
It’s just a pet theory of mine that Europe is and always will be a continent of strife—too many nations wanting too much. Now and again some nation gets the jump on the other. The Germans were on top—then the French—and now it’s the English. Maybe in a few years the Germans will be back up there. But that doesn’t worry me, and I don’t believe that Dorothy Thompson attitude— you know, that if England loses we’re next stuff. Seems to me, if Germany does win she’ll have a big enough job keeping the English and French in . hand— not to mention the Czechs and the Poles and the Belgians and the Danes and the Norwegians—to worry much about us.
And I’ve heard that economic argu-(Continued on page 18)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
King and Buckley Will Attend K. of C. Meet
Grand Knight Timothy R. King and Professor Louis F. Buckley, past grand knight, were elected last Tuesday evening to represent the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus at the 38th state convention, to be held in Logansport, Ind. The Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., will also attend. Important at the convention will be the election of state officers and reports of activities from various councils.
On Saturday, May 11, the entire council will leave for Christiana Lake, Mich., for the annual picnic. Buses, transporting the members, will leave the circle at 12:30 o’clock and return by 9 o’clock Joe McKeon is the chairman for this affair.
General council elections will be held on Tuesday, May 14.
The meeting last Tuesday was called for the purpose of welcoming 30 newly initiated members who received their major degrees at Laporte, Ind., last Sunday. The new members are: David Bagely, Robert Baker, Paul Brownfield, Joseph Casey, Robert Chamberlain, James Connolly, Michael Connelly, and Edward Dore. Also Raymond Dubriske, John Fisher, John Greene, William Hannan, Edward Hickey, William Hickey, Michael Hines, William Kelly, Jeremiah Killigrew, John Maloney, Roderick Maguire, Alan Mooney, John Morrison, Bartley McCullion, Edward Neagle, Joseph Nolan, Steven Puffer, William Riley, Charles Schieck, Augustus Stuhl-dreher, and Robert Wardell.
Dean Clarke Of De Paul
Speaks At Law Dinner
The annual testimonial dinner in tribute to the late Col. William James Hoynes, long-time dean of the College of Law, was held Monday evening in the Hotel LaSalle. Dr. William Francis Clarke, dean of the DePaul University • college of law, Chicago, was guest speaker at the dinner, which was sponsored by the Notre Dame Law club. William P. Mahoney, senior law student from Phoenix, Ariz., now assistant track coach at the University, was toastmaster; John J. Deane, president of the Law club gave the address of welcome, and John C. Hynes, a senior law student gave the students’ memorial to the late colonel. Judge John P. McGoorty, of Chicago, and Dean Thomas F. Konop, present dean of the College of Law, also spoke briefly.
Charles S. Reddy, senior law student was general chairman for the dinner which was attended by about 75 persons.
SCHOOLMEN
The Schoolmen, student philosophy club, will interview candidates for membership on Monday evening at 8 o’clock in the smoking room of the Law Building. Juniors majoring in philosophy are eligible for this examination before a group of Schoolmen.
Timothy R. King
Witchger Wins First
Prize in A.S.M.E. Contest
Robert W. Witchger of Saginaw, Mich., a junior in mechanical engineering, won first prize in a technical photo contest conducted at the Eighth Annual Midwest Students Conference of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held in Chicago on April 15-16. Witchger also won an honorable mention in the non-technical section, and a slide rule, special prize given for over-all proficiency.
Norbert Schickel also of the local chapter won a steel tape for his speech on “The Effect of Technological Advance on Employment.” Sixteen schools were entered in this division.
Twelve local A.S.M.E. members and Mr. Carl G. Wilcox of the mechanical engineering department attended the conference, which will be held at Detroit next year. Mr. Wilcox extended a formal invitation to the conferences delegates to hold the 1942 conference at Notre Dame.—Robert LeMense
Record Breaking Season
For Notre Dame Debaters
The Notre Dame debating team, under the direction of Professor William J. Coyne, concluded their season two weeks ago with a decisive victory over the orators from Stanford University. A final resume of the season’s schedule found the Notre Dame speakers in possession of an enviable record of 32 victories against only eight defeats.
The best effort of the team was in the Manchester tournament with a record of 20 wins in 22 contests. The “B” teams —affirmative and negative—led in the assault by winning all ten of their matches. At the Iowa City tournament, the “A” teams did not fare so well, but still managed to capture seven out of 12 debates.
On the Eastern trip, the debaters won two of their three matches, and competed in two radio debates, one with St. John’s and the other with Pennsylvania. The decision is still pending on the Pennsylvania contest. No decision was rendered in the debate with St. John’s.
In addition to the regularly scheduled debates, Fred Hall and John O’Loughlin engaged in a discussion with representatives from DePaul and Loyola universities over WBBM, Chicago, on Jan. 13. ‘ Two other Notre Dame speakers, John Burke and Bernard Lienhard spoke over WHD, Chicago, on March 2.
This year marked the end of the sensational three-year debating career of Albert Funk, who is president of the Wranglers Society and also the Bookmen. During those three years, Funk participated in 50 debates and was the winner of over 40, for an average of .800. Funk’s consistent victories have attracted attention from debaters all over the country, and it was with great pride that Professor Coyne said, “Whenever . debating coaches gather to talk shop, one of them invariably mentions ‘that redheaded fellow from Notre Dame’.”
The new men who won their debating keys this year are: Daniel Sullivan; John O’Loughlin; Bernie Lienhard; and James Burke. The other men on the teams are veterans who have won keys in previous years. Albert Funk and Daniel Sullivan are the only men to be graduated this June.
The members of the teams—by sections—are: Affirmative “A” Daniel Sullivan; Milton Williams. “B” John O’Loughlin; Bernard Lienhard. Negative “A” Albert Funk; Thomas Grady and William Meier, alternating. “B” James Burke; Thomas Grady and Williaim Meier, alternating.—Conway McDevitt
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE LAST MILE — AND “THEY’RE OFF” AT CARTIER
Badger Trackmen Are Slight Favorites Over Irish In Local Outdoor Opener
Notre Dame Relay Team Will Seek Mile Record
Northwestern University authorities announced late Wednesday that the Wildcat track team had also entered this meet. Jack Smith, Big Ten champion hurdler, is expected to lead his team in its bid for victory.
University of Wisconsin’s track team, one of the better units in the Big 10, battles Notre Dame in the initial outdoor test Saturday, beginning at 3 p.m. (CST) at Cartier field.
The track meet with Wisconsin is one the late John P. Nicholson of Notre Dame had anticipated for several years. Wisconsin is coached by “Nick’s” former mentor at Missouri, Tom Jones. Like Nicholson, Jones has developed an outstanding current distance ace, Chuck Fenske, mile ace of the indoor season with Notre Dame’s Greg Rice at two and three miles.
Last spring Wisconsin, Notre Dame and Missouri were to meet at the latter school but because of difficulty over a Badger competitor, the meet was cancelled.
Leading the favored invading Badgers are Captain Bill Malisch and George Paskavan in the weights, Ed Buxton in the middle distances, Ed Smith in the
hurdles, and Bill Williams and Bob Gardner in the pole vault.
In the Drake Relays, at Des Moines last week-end, Paskavan, who is Wisconsin’s ace fullback and Western Conference ground-gaining ace, finished second in the shot put, ahead of Notre Dame’s Cliff Brosey. The latter will be out to avenge the defeat on his home grounds.
Smith, Badger colored ace, has long been one of the outstanding hurdlers in the country. Notre Dame’s mile relay team, outstanding entrant in meets during the indoor season, will give the Irish an advantage in that event. George Schiewe, Ken Collins, Joe Halpin and Ray Roy are seeking a meet record.
Outstanding competitors for the Irish in individual events are: Bob Saggau, Frank Sheets, and Bill Buenger in the sprints; Dave Reidy, Bob Lawrence, George Schiewe and Joe Prokop in the hurdles; Ray Roy, Curtis Hester, John Mack, Joe Olbrys, in the middle distances and distances.
John Dean, improving during the outdoor season, heads the pole vault entries for the Irish. Tom Perry and Clyde Archer form the chief threats in the javelin.
The meet with Wisconsin’s Badgers and the battle with Michigan State here May 11 are the only outdoor tests at home for the Notre Dame team.
—Bill Scanlan
IRISH ON THE ROAD — BA
Seeking to add to their .500 per cent average thus far this season, the Notre Dame baseball squad will continue its wayward tour tomorrow when they journey to East Lansing to meet Michigan State. Monday, the Klinemen camp at Bloomington for a twin-bill with the Indiana Hoosiers.
It will be a veteran squad with ample , i replacements with which the Spartans la will welcome the Irish to the lower Mich- jl igan city. With 10 out of the last 13 J games played against Notre Dame to their credit, Michigan State, under the tutelage of Coach John Kobs, presents all the symptoms of another powerful squad. The team that last year swept the two-game Irish series is back at East Lansing practically intact.
On the mound, the Spartans have George Monroe, a senior who won 4 and lost one last year, and a sophomore, Frank Mekulas, who represents six feet two inches and 205 pounds of pitching finery.	,
At the catching spot, another physical giant, Leo Wolkowicz, stands out in Michigan State power. Leo was spectacular enough last year to merit Coach Kobs statement, the “best catching prospect in many seasons.” •
As regards hitting, Michigan State is no less prominent. Jim Fitzsimmons and
t
FORE! GOLFERS FACE BIG 1 i
After “lying in the rough” for two straight losses the Notre Dame golf team meets a strong Northwestern squad here this afternoon with a chance to swing over the .500 mark.
Following an auspicious opening vic- ft tory over Purdue the Irish golfers / dropped the next two matches to Michi- h gan and Illinois. The match at Cham- f paign was a repitition of the Michigan loss as Captain Hagen and team wasted fine games off the tee with poor putting. With Phil Donahue and “Wee Willie” Wilson leading the score, Notre Dame took an‘advantage in the singles but blew the lead as Illinois scored heavily in the doubles.
Northwestern comes here boasting an impressive array of titles, foremost of which are the Big Ten championship and runner-up in the National Collegiate -natches last year. Gone from 'the Wildcat’s squad is Sid Richardson, N.C.A.A. medalist but returning are lettermen, Captain Bland, O’Neall, and Chase Fan-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
ATTLE MICHIGAN, INDIANA
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
Paul Starck, outfielders, and Norman Duncan, shortstop, are the big cogs in the Spartan slam machine. The latter batted .341 last year and all three hitters averaged well over .500 per cent during competition along a recent southern training trip.
Indiana, while not as impressive on paper as the Spartans, will attempt to better their standings at the expense of Notre Dame. There is no superfluous veteran material on the Hoosier squad for only one regular of last year’s infield bears Indiana colors this year, Don Danielson, third baseman. Yet Coach Paul “Pooch” Harrell points with pride to his pitching staff which looms as the biggest aid to Hoosier victories. Captain Dale Gentil heads a host of able twirlers
but finds his equal in Don Dunker and Don Hundley. Bozidar Stoshitch, handles the signals for the Indiana hurlers and appears no less influential in Hoosier batting.
Irish Coach, Jake Kline, will let his two twirling hopefuls Rex Ellis and Norv Hunthausen, handle the pitching assignments. Ellis, who displayed remarkable control against Purdue last Monday, will face Michigan State. Then Hunthausen will be on the mound Mon
day, and, if Coach Kline does not rule it inadvisable Ellis will carry pitching burdens again Tuesday.—Tom Poivers
TEN CHAMPION WILDCATS
non, winner of the ’39 Big Ten Individual Title.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the links squad expects this meet to be as tough as any all year. “We’ll be . ready to go full strength against them; 1 we’ve made a shift in the pairings and it may turn the trick.” Asked about the 3 outcome of the meet, he continued, “If f we can improve our game on the green and pull those birdies when they’re needed, we can take this one.”
Results of the Illinois match follow:
Doubles
- Patton—72, Richart—76, 3 ; Donohue—76, Wilson—76, 0; Modjeska—77, Usinger—75, 1% ; Hagen—75, Schaller—75, 1% ; Holmstrom—73, Welsh —75; Neild—76; Wolf—78, 0. Doubles score: Illinois, 7% ; Notre Dame, 1%.
Singles
Donohue, 72—2% ; Richart, 74—% ; Neild, 75 —1; Patton, 74—2 ; Hagen, 73—% ; Holmstrom, 77—2% ; Schaller, 74—1; Welsh. 73—2; Wilson, 72 —1% : Modjeska, 72—1% ; Wolf, 73—3 ; Unsinger, 79—0. Singles score, Notre Dame, 9%; Illinois 8%.
Total meet score: Ill. 16; N. D. 11.
—John Quinn.
Baseball is a funny game! Last year Hymie Crane was regular second baseman. Although he was a weak hitter, he was a valuable man around the keystone position. This year George Sobek came along and, because of his ability at the plate, replaced Hymie. When Coach Kline shifted him to the outfield, local baseball fans believed that Crane would spend his senior year in the dugout. Outfielders must hit and the Hymer was strictly a defensive baseball player.
Today one of the chief offensive threats on the Irish nine is none other than Hubert Crane. And, oddly enough, his defensive ability in the outer areas is not as efficient as it was around second base bag. But Hymie is hitting hard and often and outfielders must hit.
Baseball has been his favorite sport since grammar school days. He played second base for St. Michael’s High, Northampton, Mass., in his freshman year and kept the position during the remainder of his time there.
However, Hymie is not a one sport man. He was also regular basketball forward during his high school career and in ’35 led the team to the New England Interscholastic Championship. The all-New England team of that year had him at left forward. He accounted for 43 points in the last three games of the New England tourney.
In the Fall of ’35 Hymie entered St. John’s Prep at Danver, Mass., where he competed in both basketball and baseball. After a year at prep school Crane entered Notre Dame and won his freshman numerals in both basketball and baseball. He was utility infielder in his sophomore year and last year he held down the second base position on the first team. This season, as we said before, he is the batting sensation of the team and we are sure that he will be up there among the first three when the season is over.
Hymie, Chet Sullivan and Tom Brennan, are Morrissey Sub’s contributions to the baseball team. These three, together with Monogram men Thesing and Harvey, make the “sub” a lively residential spot.
Crane is publicity director for the Hagen-Coughlin Monogram Show and judging from the publicity one of our campus song writers is receiving, he is doing a swell job.
During the summer Crane is night watchman at Smith College in his home town and if there are any ways of tricking these guardians Hymie should know them.
His younger brother is the sophomore
pitching sensation at William and Mary College and Hymie is glad that he doesn’t have to bat against him.
Sandlot baseball is Crane’s summertime amusement and he has played with and against some potential big league stars in these Sunday afternoon engagements. Eddie Moriarity, former Holy Cross star who played with the Bees, was one of his opponents and our leading hitter classes him as one of the best batsmen he has seen.
Statistics: Full name—Hubert Thomas Crane. Born April 8, 1917, at Northampton, Mass., his present home town. Height, 5 ft. 11 ins.; weight 170 pounds. A student in business administration, he will receive his degree in June and hopes to be a traveling salesman.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX By FRANK AUBREY
It’s hard to sit down to write at a time like this—a time that everybody’s been waiting for for months. The great event has been on everyone’s mind. They’ve talked about it, dreamed about it, schemed about it—some have even saved money for it. Prices have been bandied about since last winter. Practically every guy in the hall has his favorite who he’s been keeping tab on all spring. Now in this moment before the fulfilment of their dreams the boys are ready to sacrifice their all in one supreme moment. What chance takers! Money’s no object; the sky’s the limit! Rich man’s sons, poor man’s sons, everybody who can possibly make it will be there. There’ll be visitors from Maine to California. They’ll come by plane, by train, by motor—and undoubtedly some will come on foot. Wine will flow, money will flow, laughter will flow. Then finally the hour will arrive. A hush will settle over the crowd—an expectant, historymaking moment. The band will break into a familiar melody—the theme that is everybody’s favorite. Chills will run up and down the spines of the more emotional. Then — shortly afterwards, the crowd will move forward with an ecstatic surging.__“They’re off!” The 66th running of the Kentucky Derby will be under way.
Last Saturday the St. Edwards A.C. had their long-awaited blow-out, clam
Headquarters for '
HOUND AND HORN FLANNEL
a1**?*****^. Here's good news for flannel wearers . . . and college men who ought to wear them. Because-of the increasing demands for flannel suits this Spring, we've assembled a complete selection of the famous iu«. Adler-Rochester Tailored HOUND & HORN Flannels. You'll find a handsome variety of shades and patterns when you come in . . . each fashioned in casual models that add to the luxury of the beautifully textured fabric. Come in today and get comfortable in HOUND & HORN Flannel.
P. S. It costs no more to have a flannel suit Customed Tailored to your individual measurements.
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop)
'•I I5$4- 117^ N. Main Street
WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP OR CONSULT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES:
GEORGE L. HAITHCOCK—MAIN BLDG.	‘■TAD’" HARVEY—11 MORRISSEY
HARRY STEPHENSON—109 SORIN	JACK DEMOSS—309 SORIN
bake, or what-will-you. The program chairman with laudable ingenuity abandoned all efforts to secure Rosie’s, Rose Marie tea-room, or the Bucket-of-blood, and the big get-together was held in the spacious confines of the Stadium. All true members of the club bunched together between the 35 and 45 yard lines on the east side of the field, where the entertainment committee presided over by Jerry Flynn got things under way. Dispensing with the usual floor-show the committee secured the services of the school’s several football teams who put on a show which was thoroughly enjoyed by all members present. Inasmuch as the refreshment committee turned out to be very capable and providing, all the members were in good spirit, and in especially good voice.
The club was proud—very proud we should say—to have one of its own members starring in an entertainer’s role. “Snow-shoes” Vergara of Brownson Hall and St. Mary’s fame, provided the boys with some real high class acting. Vic was “acting” as a football player, and when he trotted out wearing the familiar colors of the St. Ed’s A.C. of blue and white on his broad back—he literally brought down the Stadium. Never will the oldest member forget the sight of “Snow-shoes” hot-footing out around right end as the star of the manin-motion play. When shortly after that
the A. C.’s team scored a touchdown principally through the tremendous efforts of their hero—the club went wild. Disregarding the scoffers who shouted that Vic was the only football player who put on a suit to save the price of admission! and other derogatory remarks of such caliber, the Club swarmed down on the field after the whistle and carried its Big-man out of the arena in triumph.
At the close of the entertainment part of the program the club gave a rising vote of thanks to the two teams for their fine efforts. Everyone was unanimous in their praise of Mr. Flynn for securing such a fine attraction for the first annual get-together. It was thought, too, that the club made many friends for itself by permitting the general public to share in the afternoon’s fun. After a short ‘business meeting’ during which the club song, was rendered, and the club cheer let loose, the meeting broke up in a hilarious mood.
❖ * *
Rex Ellis had his folks up to look over the Notre Dame team last Monday. Rex had the pitching assignment against Purdue, and he really wanted to turn in a good job and win the ball game. With a blustery south wind at his back, his side-arm stuff was working swell. He mowed down Purdue batters with ease. In the course of 12 well-pitched innings he fanned eight men, allowed seven hits —several being scratches, and walked only one man—and that one intentionally) He allowed not one earned run. Irish batsmen found Purdue pitching for 10 hits and benefitted by five walks. Three men reached base in the first inning, four more in the second, the leadoff man in the 10th, 11th, and 12th. Then about 5:30 Rex walked off the field with his folks—having finished a job that was well done.
SOFTBALL TOURNEY
Four teams have been entered in the Scholastic Club Softball tournaments during the past week. Blanks from the Detroit, St. Louis, and Law Clubs have been received. Editor Fay tells us that a mysterious group, the newly organized Campus Club, headed by Ed “Popup” Repetto, is practicing in secret for the tourney. To all delinquents we say again: send entry blanks to John Patterson, 204 Howard Hall. Entries must have the names of each team member (15 limit). Deadline is Sunday, May 5, two more days to go!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Q-N SHOE DEN
FOR MEN
Winning
you the good opinion of those who count your handsome Crosby Square Shoes for summer dress and sports wear, reflect the breeding and healthful, smart comfort of custom-made shoes from which they are reproduced.
$4.95
Others higher -
• Tan and white
• All white
• Two-tone tan and brown
120 So. Michigan
Irish Varsity Romps Over Oldtimers, 25-13
At two o’clock last Saturday afternoon, Elmer Layden’s streamlined, 1940 Fighting Irish gridiron machine, rolled onto the smooth, green turf of Notre Dame Stadium, and for the better part of three and a half hours, proceeded to demonstrate the finer points of the game, to a group of determined, but woefully outmanned, “Oldtimers.” The demonstration exhibited before a crowd of 5,000 fans, who braved chilling winds to be on hand for the spectacle, proved to be very successful as far as Coach Elmer Layden and his varsity were concerned, in as much as they romped off with the spoils on the long end of a 25 to 13 score.
Nor does the size of the score tell all the power that was packed into Layden’s six super-charged teams. Time and again the big forward walls, ripped gaping holes in the “Oldtimers” defense, and speedy halfbacks, behind great blocking, plowed through for substantial gains. The long touchdown run so characteristic of the ’38 team, but woefully lacking in last year’s offense was brought back into play in this family battle, not once, but four times. Bob Hargrave’s second period interception of an “Oldtimers” pass, and his 80 yard sideline sprint for pay-dirt; Owen “Dip” Evans, freshman halfback deluxe, who in the 30 minute between-the-halves scrimmage took a punt on his own 28 yard line, cut to his right, reversed his field, and then romped 72 yards for a score. In the same scrimmage, Evans’ teammate, Joe Prokop, a junior right half, gobbled in a punt on his own 35 and wiggled his way through a broken field some 65 yards to score. In the third period of the regular game, Steve Ba-garus, provided the biggest thrill of the day, when he slipped through an opening at left tackle, reversed his field twice, and dashed like a scared rabbit for a 64 yard touchdown jaunt.
All in all it was a great afternoon for Coach Layden and his staff—the running of Evans, Bagarus, Prokop, and Hargrave; the passing of Billy “Slug” McGannon and Jack Warner; the plunging of “Big Moose” Piepul, the old reliable; the splendid offensive charge of. the linemen, and their devastating tackling on defense; the all around play of Steve Juzwik, the boy who has “arrived” with a bang; and the knowledge that he has surplus reserve strength to back up his starting eleven—all will make beautiful day-dreaming during the drowsy summer days.
The “Oldtimers”? They put up a whale of a battle, and gave the varsity a scare in the second half, by driving
for two touchdowns, and threatening to do even more damage. Farris Saffa, a senior left halfback reserve, was a stick of dynamite on the offense, and last season’s starting eleven though a trifle heavy about the middle, still showed “that they may be old, but they could still give and take it with the best of them.”—Jim Clemens •
Netters Expect Victory
Over Indiana Tomorrow
After a disappointing 6-3 setback at the hands of Western State last week Notre Dame’s tennis forces will endeavor to regain their winning form when
N. D. CORSAGES
for the SENIOR BALL at
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan St.
Campus representative: Burley Johnston. Alumni Hall
COME
DOWN C. O. D.
and look over our large, complete selection of all that's new in
PALM BEACH
suits
slacks
formal jackets
Just take a cab and we will pay on arrival for any Notre Dame student — from school to GILBERT'S store. All other accessories to complete your outfit for any hour of the day — or night.
THE MODERH
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
they meet Indiana University here tomorrow.
If favorable weather conditions prevail, the clay courts south of the Engineering building will serve as the site of the matches. Should the elements rule otherwise, however, play will get under way on the asphalt courts east of Breen-Phillips at two o’clock.
In regard to past meetings with the Hoosiers the Irish netters have had things much their own way. “We expect to take care of the Indiana team in stride,” predicted Coach Langford. “Last year we defeated them 7-0 and apparently they are no stronger, while we are much improved.”
Thursday, the Langfordmen will meet competition of a different nature when they head west to engage the University of Chicago. The “Windy City racque-teers,” along with Northwestern, always represent the stiffest oppositiion of the year. In the past, all efforts on the part of the locals to score a triumph over the Big Ten champions have proved fruitless. However, from all indications the 1940 Chicago team is not quite so potent as in recent years. But nevertheless pre-game odds are quoted definitely in their favor.
Notre Dame’s first three men—Captain Bill Fay, Dan Canale, and Jack Joyce—will oppose Chicago’s outstanding trio of Schohstrum, Sayier, and Jorgensen.
The remaining Blue and Gold posts will be filled from a list which includes Bowler, Walsh, Hoeckler, Garvey, Nagel and Wolf.
Results of the Western State meet follow:
C. Y. O. DANCE SOUTH BEND DEANERY
The Spring Frolic of the Catholic Youth Organization will be held at the
Indiana Club, Friday, May 10
DEACON MOORE and His Orchestra
From 9 to 1, D.S.T. Advance, 55c per person; Door, 85c per person. Tickets available at Wal green’s and Clark’s Restaurant

For the "Tea-Fight"!
For the Ball!
Singles: Canale (N.D) defeated Russell, 6-3, 6-1; Fay (ND) defeated Crook, 10-8, 6-3; Vander-Meiden (WS) defeated Joyce, 1-6, 8-6, 6-3; Linder (WS) defeated Bowler, 6-0, 6-8, 6-2; Sims (WS) defeated Walsh, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 ; Heckler (ND) defeated Taylor, 0-6, 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles: Russel-Vander Meiden (WS) defeated Canale-Joyce, 6-4, 8-6; Linder-Taylor (WS) defeated Fay-Bowler, 6-4, 7-5 ; Crook-Sims (WS) defeated Heckler-Garvey, 6-3. 4-6, 6-0.
—Frank L. Kunkel
VARSITY LAST
wing tip . . All
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
124 s. micHicnn st.
124 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
sMi BEST FEET...FORWARD!
bl
"SARATOGA" in genuine
FASHION FOOTWEAR PROPERLY FITTED
white or brown and white . . .
buckskin . . or cap toe
SARATOGA LAST
"VARSITY" in calfskin . . . hand-rubbed brown or black . . . wing tip or cap toe . . .
$3.98
(Others to $6.50)
$4.98
(Others $3.98 to $6.50)
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT!
One look is all anyone needs to appreciate the unmatched smartness of 1940’s
PALM BEACH FORMALS
Single or double-breasted white jacket with shawl lapels—and black trousers. $18.50. At your favorite clothier—now. And while you’re there, see the new Palm Beach Suits...whites, blues, tans, greens and grays...$16.75. Slacks, $5. Washable, cool and wrinkle-repellent. Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Ti^xLch))^
14,000 Bulletins To Be Distributed This Month
The University Press will disgorge thousands of new Bulletins after May 15 for the schoolyear of 1940-41. Only minor changes have been made from last year’s gray catalogue. In the College of Arts and Letters the department of social work has been created. The College of Commerce added the department of accounting formerly under the department of finance.
The Bulletin for the Summer Session of 1940 was issued April .20. Principal change is in the College of Science, where the list of engineering and mechanical courses has been greatly enlarged
About 14,000 Bulletins will be printed. Every year approximately 5,000 are sent to prospective students and other interested parties. Each student of the University receives a copy besides the permanent mailing list of 2,500. This includes educational, scientific, business and commercial groups throughout the country.
Copies are sent to the Congressional Library, the Smithsonian Institute, and the U. S. Department of Education in Washington. All colleges and universities on the catalogue exchange list receive the Bulletin. They are sent to all high schools represented here and to other schools upon request. Newspapers, publishers, personnel departments of various concerns, bankers associations, bar associations, and vocational guidance groups. Several American counselors in foreign countries desire Bulletins for information. About 3,000 Bulletins for the Summer Session are printed.
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
Always look for this label
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
From the Ascension to Pentecost the Apostles remained in prayerful expectancy. Christ had promised not to leave them orphans. We can readily imagine their wonder at what form that promise would take. The reward of their trust was that they became new men, filled with the Holy Ghost.
Pentecost is not a feast in honor of the Holy Ghost. To guard against the danger of error from distinguishing the Divine Essence, the Church has never instituted a titular feast of any one of the Divine Persons. “This is the Catholic Faith that we should adore One God in Trinity and Trinity in Unity.” (Athana-sian Creed). Pentecost is the manifestation of the twofold mission of the Holy Ghost, his outward and visible mission in the Church and his secret indwelling in the souls of the just. On that day in the person of the Apostles the Church took form as the kingdom of God upon earth. It was both the community of the justified and the source of justification for all who believed. Its vital core and center is the Holy Ghost and on that day he began to manifest his gifts.
Pentecost, then is the fulfillment of prophecy, “I will pour out my spirit on all flesh” (Joel 2:28); and the fulfillment of promise, “I will ask the Father, and he shall give you another Paraclete, that he may abide with you forever.” (John 14:16)
Mass Calendar, May 5-11
Sunday, 5—Sunday within the Octave. Mass proper. 2d prayer, St. Pius V. Pope, Confessor, 3d, of the Octave.
Monday, 6—St. John Before the Latin Gate. 2d prayer, of the Octave.
Tuesday, 7—St. Stanislaus, Bishop, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common) 2d prayer, of the Octave.
Wednesday, 8—Apparition of Saint Michael, the Archangel. 2d prayer, of the Octave.
Thursday, 9—O c t a v e Day of the Ascension.-Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, St. Gregory Nazianzen, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor.
Friday, 10—St. Antoninus, Bishop, Confessor. 2d prayer, of preceding Sunday, 3d, Sts. Gordian and Epimachus, Martyrs.	.
Saturday, 11—V i g i 1 of Pentecost. (Fast and Abstinence) Mass proper; also Communicantes and Hane Igitur in Canon. At the solemn mass blessing of baptismal font, preceded by prophecies.
Ergo—No Go I
(Continued from page 10) ment, too—how much rubber, et cetera, we buy from England, and if Germany wins we’ll have to use synthetic rubber and automobile tires will cost $250 a set, and people won’t be able to buy automobiles, and all the automobile workers will have to go on relief and et cetera. And we’ll lose all our foreign investments, too.
Well, as far as that synthetic rubber argument goes, I read the other day that synthetic rubber in quantity production wouldn’t cost much more than the real English brand—and it seems to me we spent more money in the last war protecting our investments than we would have lost by just writing them off at profit and loss. They figure the last war cost us a hundred billion dollars—that’s just talking dollars not life—and I don’t think we’ve got enough at stake to take another flyer like the last one. I can ride the street car—a lot of people do.
Believe me, if we get into this war we’ll be doing without a lot more than automobile tires. We ought to know when we’re well off. Any fighting we do won’t help us — we’ll just help other people to something we already have.
Another voice interrupted: You’re right about the philosophy of the war— it’s purely pragmatic—but you’re wrong when you say we won’t be fighting for something if we join up with the Allies. Think what a Nazi victory would mean — maybe a German-Russian-Japanese alliance.
Do you have a picture of ’that? You’d see Russia walking right into Alaska— we haven’t any land defenses there and our big ships can’t maneuver up there. You’d see Japan taking over the Philip-ipines—and you might see Nazi bombers winging down from Newfoundland.
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST ' SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
-r-	■
HORSES AND
now it’s your turn!
Up to now, horses and women have had a corner on fun with hats.
But, gentlemen, it’s our turn now!
We have assembled the gayest, smartest, handsomest hats ever styled.
They are a treat to look at . . . and every one is a famous, long-wearing LEE WATER-BLOC*,
too.
THE GUARDS
Here’s the hat that has that trim military look—with a new wide brim you can wear up or down, as you wish..
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
♦Rag. U. S. Pat. Off.
Patronize our advertisers.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
And where’s our fleet—not four places at once. Probably they’d be hanging around the Panama Canal.... and don’t put too much stock in that argument
Stick to
ARROW SHIRTS
For superb collars, Mitoga cut, anchored buttons, and permanent fit! (Sanforized).
$2.00 up
Ellsworth's
that Germany will have enough trouble policing the English and French without bothering us. They won’t police-them— just paralyze them and move one.... and even if Germany and Russia and Japan didn’t attack us we’d be in a plenty precarious position with no British fleet to help us and South America wide open to foreign invasion—armed as well as financial—and most of our world markets gone.
Don’t worry, Mister, we have a big stake in this war and it rides with the Allies.... and each Nazi victory just brings you that much closer to one of those khaki suits you were talking about.
And then another voice asked: Any of you know where a six-footer can borrow some tails for the Ball?—W. C. F.
Monogram Absurdities
Steve Coughlin, president of the Monogram Club, stated this week that the exact date for this year’s “Absurdities” will be announced in the near future. Members of the club have been working on the show for some time and definite news is expected next week.
Realists
The Realists, a campus club composed of Sociology majors, will hold their annual banquet at the Rose Marie Tearoom, Monday, May 13, at 6:30 C.S.T.
Father Gallagher, eminent Catholic sociologist from Chicago, will address the meeting following the banquet. Daniel D. Dahill is general chairman of the affair.
Tickets for the banquet may be obtained from John Schmied, 347 Sorin Hall or Daniel D. Dahill, 381 Dillon Hall.
La Raza
Last week, members of the La Raza Club, composed of Spanish-speaking students, held their annual club elections. The newly elected officers are: President, Harold Graham of Puerto Rico; vice president, Eusebio Azpiazu of Havana, Cuba; Secretary, Carlos Dittbom of Chile; and treasurer, Ramiro Perez of Havan, Cuba.
My Friend, Joe Holmes, is now a horse
New Patterns at
ARROW Headquarters
JOE always said when he died he’d like to become a horse. One day Joe died.
Early this February I saw a horse that looked like Joe drawing a milk wagon. I sneaked up to him and whispered, “Is it you, Joe?”
He said, “Yes, and am I happy!” I said, “Why?” He said, “I am now wearing a comfortable collar for the first time in my life.. My shirt collars always used to shrink and irk me. In fact, one choked me to death. That is why I died!”
“Why didn’t you tell me about your shirts sooner?” I exclaimed. “I would have told you about Arrow shirts. They never shrink out of fit! ,Not even the oxfords.”
■ “Swell,” said Joe. “My boss needs a shirt like that. I’ll tell him about the button-down Gordon oxford. Maybe he’ll give me an extra quart of oats. And, gosh, do I love oats!”
ARROW SHIRTS
Sanforized-Shrunk
(fabric thrinbaga la** that* 1%—partaaaaM fit gaaraataat)
Here's Why College Men Like Arrows
I.	Superb -fitting Arrow collar.
2.	The Mitoga cut.
3.	Permanent fit because they're Sanforized-shrunk.
4.	Authentic styling.
Max ADLER
Michigan at Washington
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Scholastic Spreads News From Canada to Hawaii
Every week of the school year by train or ship the Scholastic is carried to readers in 25 states and ten foreign countries. It finds its way into homes and libraries around the world from faraway Dacca, Bengal to Rome, Italy; from New Brunswick, Canada to Buenos Aires, Argentina. Through subs and mines to Norway, France, and Ireland; in the Far East to the Philippines, Japan, India and Hawaii; north to Canada and south to Mexico goes the printed “spirit of Notre Dame!” The largest number of foreign subscribers is in East Bengal, India where the Congregation of Holy Cross has many of its missions. The Scholastic still goes through to Trisberg, Norway but there was a slight drop in circulation last September when Poland entered the Greater German Reich.
In the United States the Scholastic goes to loyal alumni in 25 states and the District of Columbia. Copies are mailed each week from the Ave Maria Press to points as widely separated as San Diego, Calif., and Hartford, Conn. The sub-„ scribers vary in social standing and occupation from Catholic high school libraries to the California State Prison at San Quentin, and the Southern Michi-
May 12th is
MOTHER'S DAY...
Of course you don't want to let this day go by without some word to your Mother from you. The Bookstore — right on the campus — has many suggestions in every price range for your gift to Mother.
Wall Plaques (Spiritual Bouquet enclosed with each)
25c and 50c
Cards — 5c and up
Religious articles, pens and pencils, stationery, Notre Dame souvenirs.
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
gan Prison at Jackson. The greatestnumber of outside subscriptions go to newspapers. Forty-eight sports editors and 154 city editors of metropolitan newspapers are readers. Almost every sports editor in Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan and Ohio subscribes. Seventy Catholic papers and 115 radio stations find the Scholastic newsworthy. Most important are the 3,000 plus copies delivered on the campus each week.
—John Considine and Jim Donohoe
Chicago Club
At elections held in the basement of the library on Tuesday evening, Gus Ryan was elected president; Eddie Riska, vice president; Emmett Necas, treasurer, and Don Hogan, secretary.
SPIRO'S
IN SOUTH BEND
feature the famous
MANHATTAN SHIRTS at $2
RADIO LOG
Tonight! Tonight! Tonight! It’s Radio Stage again at 9 o’clock. This week’s presentation, “Blood Over Erin,” was written especially for the program by prolific John Coppinger who authored last Friday’s “Stranger’s in Paris.” The Easter week revolt of 1916 provides the background for the show, which will provide all the blood and thunder that even Sorin Sub could want.
Here's the last word in creative originality and good taste in shirt design. Stripes, plain colors, whites in Manhattan's new interpretations. New collars and new colors that are the absolute in fashion perfection — adroitly tailored down to the last infinitesimal seam. • See them at your local store.
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
Delicious and refresn-
Drink
Delicious and Refreshinp
ing.” These are the reasons

Tonight also, St. Mary’s makes its debut on Radio* Stage in the person of Mary Irene Hartigan. We heard her give a reading of Schiller’s “Mary and Elizabeth” on one of the shows staged by the girls at the Rock to plug the work of the Confraternity. It was one of the finest pieces of work done in our studio in a long time. The girl is good and we are not going to miss hearing her again as the lead in tonight’s show.
Coppinger is showing the boys how to go places in radio. Time was when he was half of a crowd of peddler’s, muttering off-mike in the third act. Realizing that he was getting no place fast, working for other people, he took to writing his own plays with the result that he is co-starred tonight with Mary Irene. Another lead is Will Mulvey, the be-dimpled reason the feminine leads forget their cues. Mario Potetti, the Pierre Paquin of last week’s offering, becomes a British officer this evening and confirms our opinion regarding his versatility. The usual announcer for Radio Stage, Jack White, yields his post to Bill Foley to take a featured part in the show.
After Radio Stage has unfolded its wares, remain tuned to the South Bend Tribune station to hear Jerry Flynn bring a bit of the spirit of the Senior Ball to the boys back in the halls. Besides Jerry’s girl-by-girl description of the dance scene, Larry Clinton will entertain with some of the smooth music the Ball committeemen have been talking up the last few days.
Log
Tuesday, 7:00—Music of the Masters. Wednesday, 7:45—Sportscast.
Wednesday, 9:00—Faculty Talk. Thursday, 4:00—Periscope.
Friday, 9:00—Radio Stage.
—Ray Kelly
why the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is America’s favorite moment. Everybody welcomes the pleasing taste of Coca-Cola and the happy after-sense of complete refreshment.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
"It's
NOTRE DAME
, Headquarters"
For Finest Quality
•	Steaks — Chops
•	Resh Lake Fish
•	Ried Chicken
•	Spaghetti Dinners
HOWELL’S CAFE
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DISC-CUSSION
Benny Goodman takes top honors this week with a quartet of fine popular numbers: “Be Sure,” “Shake Down the Stars,” “The Sky Fell Down,” and “It Never Entered My Mind.” Benny seems somewhat restrained because the songs are dance tunes rather than instrumentals but nevertheless does a good job. Helen Forrest sings all four sides and she, too, does a good job. Arrangements are by Fletcher Henderson and George Sauter, two of swingdonfs best. Off and on throughout the tunes, tone qualities faintly reminiscent of Duke Ellington break through the more civilized dance style of Goodman.
The Duke himself is with us this week with his best record in months. Two good reasons Ellington is considered a great modern musician are “Solitude” and “Mood Indigo,” two of his more quiet compositions. .Fortunately, he’s finally put them on opposite sides for us. I can’t say much for The Duke’s “Dutchess of Swing,” Miss Ivy Anderson, but if you can ignore her vocals and few out of the mood jive breaks, this disc will be very welcome to most of you.
Glenn Miller’s “Tuxedo Junction” is unquestionably very good but I’ll take my life in my hands and say that Gene Krupa’s is better. For one thing Krupa uses a soft guitar in the background to give the number a little seasoning. For another, his arrangement throughout is a bit more original than Miller’s. I also like his brass better than that of the “Moonlight Serenader.” On the other side you’ll find Irene Daye doing a better than good vocal on a song that might be the answer to “What’s New?”: “So Long.” The record is mostly vocal so with Miss Daye doing the honors what more could you want?
The Les Paul Trio of Fred Waring’s troupe have made their first recording: Johnny Green’s swell “Out of Nowhere” and somebody-or-pther’s “Goodby, My Lover Goodby.” Jimmy Atkins on the lyrics sounds slightly like the Bing Crosby of Gus Arnheim’s day but not long enough to make this record more than just another one.
Tunes by Jerome Kern and Cole Porter on one record should be enough for most of you. Ted Streator, composer, arranger, and pianist extraordinary, and his orchestra, less extraordinary, have done “They Didn’t Believe Me” and “Just One of Those Things.” This pair isn’t up to Streator’s capabilities but, all in all, it’s a pretty nice record. Dorothy Rochelle does the lyrics on both sides
its ie/pfiftt# mi/tiMS
The familiar Telephone Directory is America’s No. 1 Reference Book—consulted millions of times a day by men, women and children in every walk of life.
Besides being "America’s Calling List,” it is also one of the most helpful buying guides. In the classified "Where to Buy It” section (yellow pages) you will find the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of dealers who sell what you want—many of them listed under the trade marks of scores of nationally advertised brands.
This idea is one of many pioneered by the Bell System to increase the value of your telephone service.
Why no* telephone home often? Rotes *c ^os* points ore lowest ony night of*e^ 7 p M c"c d o y Sunday.
The Notre Dame Scholastic .
23
and that is about all that can be said for her.
The nicest popular priced album in some time is Columbia’s of the eight most popular waltzes of—that’s right, Johaann Strauss. Among the tunes are “Blue Danube,” “Vienna Woods,” “Artist’s Life,” “Emperor Waltze,” “Wiener Blut,” “Voices of Spring” and “Wine, Women, and Song.” You seniors will have the women tonight; you should get
South Shore Trains Now Leave South Bend
30 MIN. phoJrhe
from 7:30 A. M. to II :30 P. M.
The two earliest morning trains leave at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M.
IMPORTANT:
DEPARTURES FROM CHICAGO REMAIN UNCHANGED
Daylight Saving Time
All South Shore trains to and from Chicago are operating on Daylight Saving Time.
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
For complete information phone
Ticket Agent 3-3111
the songs as soon as possible. The musical comedy orchestra of Al Goodman, who hasn’t even a spiritual kinship with the King of Swing, does excellent work on these recordings. They go through all eight numbers without once forgetting that they are playing the music of the original “Waltze King.” The packaging itself, with a formal program, is a masterpiece of salesmanship. If your looking for a nice, inexpensive gift for someone, let me suggest this album.
—Bill Geddes
Spring Finds 75 New
Elms on Golf Course
Spring brought more than bees and flowers to the golf course this year. Seventy-five new elms are running the wind competition, and don’t mistake the traps in front of the seventeenth green for divots extraordinary; they are new too. The elms, 20 feet tall, range from four to eight inches in diameter. They were moved during the winter. The dirt around their roots must be solid, so that their bases can be cut out like blocks of ice. Cold weather is the only answer. Frigid work, but all for the great god par.
April 2 was the opening date this year—a week later than last year, but then Spring was a little late too. The divot diggers must wait until the frost is out of the ground and the fairways can be rolled behind them before they can get in their dirty work. And a good thing it is they wait until the course can be repaired behind them, because an average of 200 hopefuls per day have used the course during the season thus far. When 336 turned in tickets a week ago, the management nearly had to put out the S. R. O. sign. Unless you start out on the first tee during meal time you have to hand in your name and wait your turn. Tuesday and Thursdays are the heaviest during the week because the Commerce students have the least classes then. Golf, of course, is the business man’s right hand. On Tuesday and Thursday afternoon, all day Saturday, and on Sunday morning, only foursomes are allowed off the tee. During the summer the course will be opened to a limited play and will be kept in condition for the fall season.
The Spalding Dot balls, retailing for 75 cents at the golf shop, are a new and interesting innovation. They are autographed with “Notre Dame University.” So if you can’t wear a monogram sweater, now you can still play golf with an “N.D.” ball. The Dot is used by the Notre Dame golf team in its match play.
—Bill Keenan.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Dr. O. Qrundij Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING phone 4-easa south bend. Indiana
Qmiiaaii8aaaaiaaiaaaaiiiaiaii8Biiiiii*iaamaeeaMaaaaaiaaaau>MauMeMe«|
OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
Dr.	^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
Drs. Drobst and Sinqler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
■	SOUTH BEND
I X-RAY LABORATORY
!	825 SHERLAND BUILDING
| L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
| M.D.	M.O.
4-----------------------------
ose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG., SOUTH BENO
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONIER LI3RARY-
NOTRE D
Amenta’s Busiest Corner Chicago’s Madison and State Streets, where Officers HARRY KLEPSTEEN and THOMAS McGINTY keep the traffic moving. And at every corner CHESTERFIELD is America’s busiest cigarette because smokers have found them Definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking and Better-Tasting.
AMERICAS BUSIEST CIGARETTE
...atevery comer it’s Chesterfield ... today's definitely milder.. • coolersmoking ... better-tasting cigarette
When you buy a pack of cigarettes, give it the smoker’s perfect quiz... Is it mild? Is it cool? Does it taste better? If you do that, you’ll turn by choice to Chesterfield because Chesterfield has all the answers.
Their blend of the best tobaccos grown, their size, shape and the way they bum, all help to make Chesterfield America's Busiest Cigarette.
Moire your next pock Chesterfield ••• You canft buy a butter Cigarette
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.