Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1882.	No. 3.
Fra Angelico.
FROM “ PRELUDES,” BY MAURICE F. EGAN.*
Art is true art when art to God is true, And only then: to copy Nature’s work
Without the chains that run the whole world through
Gives us the eye without the lights that lurk
In its clear depths: no soul, no truth is there.
Oh, praise your Rubens and his fleshly brush!
Oh, love your Titian and his carnal air!
Give me the trilling of a pure-toned thrush,
And take your crimson parrots. Artist—saint!
O Fra Angelico, your brush was dyed
In hues of opal, not in vulgar paint;
You showed to us pure joys for which you sighed.
Your heart was in your work, you never feigned:
You left us here the Paradise you gained!
■ * We have lately had the pleasure of reading a letter written by Mr. Longfellow some months before his lamented death, in the course of which he says, referring to “Preludes”: “I shall read this volume with much interest. Indeed, I have already read enough in it to see the elevated tone and spirit in which it is written; I recognize in these sonnets a certain freshness in the thought and manner of expression which is very attractive. Might I ask you to congratulate the author for me, both on the promise and the performance of his work#” —Ed. Schol.
Glass.
Among the many inventions and discoveries made by man, none, perhaps, are to be compared with glass in the service they have rendered. To its aid, applied in a thousand different forms, the sciences, particularly chemistry and astronomy, are essentially indebted for their advancement, and its uses in common life render it no less important to the daily wants of mankind. We are also indebted to glass for many of the powerful chemical reagents which we now possess; for without the aid of this material, which resists their action, they could probably never have been known or preserved.
The manufacture of glass dates from the earliest antiquity, and the honor of its discovery has been contested by several nations; as the oldest known specimens are Egyptian, its invention may, with great probability, be attributed to that people. It is mentioned in the annals of the Egyptians as
early as the 5th or 6th dynasty, and articles made of it are represented in the tombs of those periods, while its fabrication is depicted in sepulchres of the 12th dynasty, i. e., about 1800 B. C. As regards the manner in which glass was first discovered, little is. known. Pliny relates that it was first, discovered accidentally in Syria, at the mouth of the River Belus, by certain merchants, driven thither by a storm at sea, who, being obliged to dress their food, “ and finding no stones whereon to place their pots, they placed under them some masses of nitnim [soda, as is supposed], which, being fused by the heat with the sand of the river, produced a liquid and transparent stream,” which on cooling: turned into glass. This statement-though is not generally accepted as showing the true origin of glass, for a much stronger heat than could be obtained from an open fire would be required to effect this result.
Be this as it may, however, the first glass manufactories mentioned in history were erected in the city of Tyre, and it was this place which monopolized the art of glass-making for many centuries. The sand which lay on the shore about half, a mile round the mouth of the River Belus, being pure and glittering, was peculiarly adapted to its manufacture, and the wide range of Tyrian commerce gave an ample vent for the productions of the furnace. The first mention made of glass among the Romans was in the reign of Tiberius, when, Petronius Arbiter and some others relate, the emperor ordered an artist to be beheaded for his invention of this material. But the glass commonly made use of by them was of a very inferior quality, and, from the fragments which have been discovered in some of their old towns, appears to have consisted of a thick, sometimes white, but generally bluish green metal. The glass made by the Britons was much finer, al-, though glass windows were introduced sooner in Italy than in England.*
Venice for many years excelled all Europe in' the fineness of its glasses; and in the 13th century, the Venetians were the only people who had the' secret of making mirrors. The great glass works were at Muran or Murano, a village near the city, which furnished the whole continent with the .finest and largest glasses.
* About the 3d century in Italy, about the 7th in England.
34
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The manufacture of eclass was first beerun in England, in A. D., 1557, and continued with such industry that in a short time the English not only equalled but far surpassed the Venetian glass. The French paid still more attention to the making of this article; in fact so necessary and yet so difficult to make did the}7 consider it, that for a time none but nobles were allowed to work in its manufacture.
Among the many remarkable properties which ■ glass possesses the following might be mentioned: It is one of the most elastic bodies in nature. If the force with which glass balls strike each other be reckoned 16, that wherewith they recede, by virtue of their elasticity, will be nearly 15. When glass is suddenly cooled it becomes exceedingly brittle; and this brittleness is sometimes attended with very surprising phenomena. Hollow balls, with a small hole in them, made of unannealed glass, will fly to pieces by the heat of the hand only, if the hole by which the internal and external^iir communicate be stopped with a finger. Some vessels, however, made of such unannealed glass have been discovered, which have the remarkable property of resisting very hard strokes from without, though they shiver to pieces by the shocks received from the fall of very light and minute bodies dropped into their cavities. These glasses may be made of any shape whatever; all that needs be observed in making them is, that their bottom be thicker than their sides. The thicker the bottom is, the easier do the glasses break. One whose bottom is three fingers’ breadth in thickness flies to pieces with as much ease, at least, as the thinest glass. ; Some of these vessels have been tried with strokes of a mallet sufficient to drive, a nail into hard wood and have not broken. They have also resisted the shock of several heavy bodies, let fall into their cavities from the height of two or three feet, as musket balls, pieces of iron, etc.; but this is not surprising, as other glasses of the same shape and size will do the same, but the wonder is that, taking a piece of flint, the size of a small pea, and letting it fall into the glass from the height of three inches only, in about two seconds the glass flies to pieces, sometimes at the very moment of the shock; nay, it has been shown by experiment that a bit of flint, no larger than a grain, dropped into several glasses successively, though it did not immediately break them, yet when set by, they all flew to pieces in less than three quarters of an hour. Some other bodies produce the same effect as flint: as sapphire -diamond, porcelain, hard-tempered steel, also nlarbles, such as boys play with, and likewise pearls. These experiments were made before the Royal Society, and succeeded equally when the glasses were held in the hand, when they rested on a pillow, or were put in water, or filled with water. It is also remarkable, that the glasses broke upon having their bottoms slightly rubbed with the finger, though some of them did not break till half an hour after the rubbing. If the * glasses are of uniform extreme thinness they do not break under such conditions as above mentioned.
The only reason that can be given for these effects are, that they are occasioned by the putting in motion of some subtile fluid with which the substance of the glass is filled;-and that the motions of this fluid, when once excited in a particular part of the glass, soon propagate themselves through the whole, or greater part of it, by which means the cohesive power becomes at last too weak to resist them. There can be little doubt that the fluid just mentioned is that of electricity. It is known to exist in glass in very great quantity; and it is also known to' be capable of breaking glasses even when annealed with the greatest care, if put into too violent a motion. Probably the cooling of glass hastily may make it more electric than is consistent with its cohesive power, so that it is broken by the least increase of motion in the electric fluid by friction or otherwise. This is evidently the case when it is broken by rubbing with the finger; but why it should also break by the mere contact of flint and the other bodies above mentioned, has not yet been satisfactorily accounted for.
Glass is a chemical compound of variable ingredients; different substances of similar character replacing each other to produce varieties. Silicic acid or silica is its principal element, which combines with the potash, soda, oxide of lead, lime, alumina, and other substances that may be added, to produce silicates of these bases. By the manufacturer the bases are classed as fluxes. Boracic acid may take the place of silicic acid to produce vitreous borates or glass. The proportions of the bases named, admitting in their use of indefinite variations, a wide scope is given for the exercise of the skill of the manufacturer in producing any particular quality of glass. The metalic oxides also afford him abundant resources for imparting any desired hue to his product, according as these are judiciously selected and introduced. The important requisite in all the varieties of glass is a fusible compound, which solidifies on cooling into a transparent mass without assuming a crystaline structure. Such a substance is a product of the process of reducing metalic ores. Without reference, however, to substances used for imparting or removing colors, the essential materials of ordinary glass may be regarded as silica and boracic acid, the alkalies, lime, and oxide of lead.	"
The varieties of glass, as classified by Dr. Knapp,,are as follows: 1st, Bottle glass; 2d, Window glass; 3d, Plate glass; 4th, Flint glass (used for grinding, etc.); 5th, Crystal glass (used for optical purposes, table-ware etc.); 6th, Strass (or the paste used for imitations of precious stones); 7th, Enamel; and lastly, Soluble glass. These eight varieties include all the kinds of glass in use at present. In order to make the manufacture of glass successful, the first thing necessary to be done is to prepare carefully the melting-pots. For this purpose the clay, which must be as free as possible from lime and iron, is first dried and sifted, then mixed and kneaded very thoroughly (this last process is performed by men treading it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35
with naked feet); the clay is then ready to be moulded into the desired shape; this operation be-- ing completed, the pots are then sent to the furnace, where they are baked and hardened with ' great care. The pots are now finished, but they are not yet ready for use; they must first be laid away and allowed to dry for some time before they are able to endure the fierce heat of the furnace.
Suitable pots having been obtained, and the material out of which the glass is to be formed properly melted, the metal is now ready for the commencement of the “ journey,” as the process of working up the glass is called. When the furnaces are opened to give access to the melted material the skimmer begins the operation by removing the scum, making the way clear for the blower and moulder, who holds in readiness his blow-pipe of iron, six feet in length, the part held in the hand being guarded by a covering of wood and other non-conducting materials. The blower, aftei- heat-ing the end of the blow-pipe in the furnace mouth, dips this instrument into the pot, and, turning it round, gathers as much metal on the end as is sufficient to form a bottle of the size required. Usually, in bottle-making, one gathering suffices, but in larger operations, such as blowing windowglass, more gatherings have to be made. The operator then blows gently down the pipe, and having thus slightly distended the bulb of red-hot plastic glass, he takes it to a plate of polished iron, forming a low bench called the “ maver,” or “ ma-vering-table.” On this he turns it round, moulding the round lump of glass into a conical form. This operation, called “ mavering,” is performed in all cases where glass is blown; and as, it is nec-cessary that the glass should be prettyjfifm before mavering it, it is often cooled by sprinkling with water, and even, as in the case of window-glass and other large blowings, turning it in a cavity containing water, which is made by hollowing out a block of wood, usually, if attainable, that of the pear-tree, which is said to be best for the purpose. After being mavered the glass is held to the o	o
mouth of the furnace, and the operator again blows through the pipe, and further distends the glass. After this operation, the blower inserts the glass into an iron or brass mould, which is formed in two pieces, opening or closing by the pressure of the foot on a lever. When the mould is closed he blows down the pipe, and the bottle is completed, all but the neck, the ring of which has to be formed by the addition of a fresh piece of metak The bottles are then tempered, which is done by-heating the oven in which they are placed nearly to melting point, and then allowing the heat to subside gradually until the oven becomes cold. By this -process bottles are made -with wonderful rapidity and exactness. Other glass vessels are generally made in a similar manner; while window glass, mirrors, etc., are sometimes blown and then flattened out, and sometimes moulded.
- Brittleness is a quality that limits the alteration of the shape of glass, after it has cooled, within
narrow bounds; but when softened by heat no substance is.more easily moulded into form; it can be blown by the breath into hollow vessels, of which the substance is so thin that they may almost be said to float in air. It may be rapidly drawn into threads of several hundred feet in length; and even interwoven into fabrics of silk, producing a wonderful and beautiful effect.’
E. A. Otis, N. D. S. A.
[Toww the Dubuque Herald^
A Visit to Notre Dame, Ind.
IMAGINATION FONDLY STOPS TO TRACE THE PARLOR SPLENDORS OF THAT FESTIVE PLACE.
Few there are who have not read of this world-renowned University of Notre Dame, Ind., yet none who have not visited its enchanting precincts can ever obtain an adequate idea of the grandeur of its architectural magnificence or of the indescrib-able loveliness of its unparalleled landscape.
Notre Dame University, with its Gothic spires and stately dome towering heavenward, decorated as it is in all its artistic splendor, is unquestionably the most beautiful of its kind in America, and I would even venture to say in the world. Its ample pleasure grounds, its walks and alleys, its bright green swaths and silvery fountains, its stately pines and evergreens, together with its -well-proportioned statuary, interspersed throughout the various promenades, and its magnificent and stately dome, present to the visitor at first sight the appearance of an ornamental palace in all its glorious luxuriance.
The pleasure lakes on either side, reflecting from their crystal bosoms the surrounding -willows, the neighboring spires and the azure dome of heaven, are for the sophomore students a field of innocent mirth as they row along, and for the freshmen a soul-entrancing scene, a very stepping-stone whereby to mount from nature to nature’s God. “When God’s works are so charming and beautiful, oh, what must God Himself not be’” was the expression of a young student on the occasion of his first visit to this Alma Mater.
Happy, indeed, that young man favored by his parents with such a blessing! Truly, indeed, will he yet bless the day that his parents sent him to Notre Dame, where he will be guarded like a young flower, where city turmoil and evil ways will be far distant, where health-giving air will supplant city smoke, in short where the rosebud of health may be seen flowering on the cheek instead of the consumptive pallor and hectic flush of. the inmates of other colleges.
Over fifty acres have the students of Notre Dame for recreation grounds, gymnasiums, baseball games, ball alleys, etc., whilst a thousand acres more of that rich vale are set apart to raise fat mutton and beef for the students. Whole hecatombs which in early ages would threaten us
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with the extinction of the race, fall down daily to supply the wants of the inmates of that vast institution. When nothing less than eighty or a hundred legs of mutton, with half a dozen beeves, dare make their appearance at a Notre Dame dinner, I am not astonished that students there look strong. “Best of everything!” seems to be the motto of-that University. Best of colleges, best of professors, best of students and best of treatment. Then it is no wonder that we find in the books of Notre Dame the names of the children of oui' most prominent citizens of Dubuque; the Knights and Browns, the Ryans and Kavanaughs, with several others, are there conspicuous.
In Notre Dame is imparted a thorough Scientific, Classical and Commercial Course, together with Mathematics, Civil Engineering, Medicine, Law, Philosophy, Music, Painting and all the fine arts which ennoble the mind and distinguish in after-life the University students from the students'of small colleges, where astronomical instruments, physical cabinets, and the delicate touches of a Signor Gregori’s brush and pencil are not present as at Notre Dame. . .
The works there are become truly immense during the last three years. Over one hundred and fifty masons and laborers are constantly building new additions to the halls during vacations. So numerous are the students becoming that the College has to be enlarged yearly. The average amount of coal consumed on the . premises is ten tons a day.’ Such is Notre Dame, which looks like a city of palaces. Here is a department for the Minims, there for the Juniors, elsewhere for the Seniors and Graduates.
Within are the various richly-decorated reception halls, ladies toilette-rooms, etc. On either aisle are the refectories; up-stairs are the professors’ apartments, decorated with libraries of the various European languages, as become gentlemen who are graduates of Oxford, Cambridge, Paris, Lyons, Berlin, and Rome. Then appear the students’ class-halls, society-rooms and other ample apartments too various to mention.
Well may the colleges of Iowa be jealous of their learned and high-toned neighbor, Notre Dame, but still they must say: Idhommage Ven est du, O Grande Dame! Vous etes de tons les coeurs la certaine esperance. Et du bonheur public la seconde assurance.
About two miles on yonder hillock, beside the purling waters of the St. Joseph River, is seen the celebrated Academy of St. Mary’s at Notre Dame. I counted only one-hundred and fifty pianos in that Academy, and then blest my stars that I had still my hearing as I went forth to gaze on the various grape-arbors and summer-houses which shade the tender roses that seemed to grow on the cheeks of their healthful and blooming inmates. But as I saw in the register of Mount St. Mary’s the names of several Dubuque young ladies who graduated at that Academy, I shall, leave space for them to describe their Alma Mater with all its pianos and roses. Mrs. Connolly, or the Misses Brown, or any of the other young ladies, may fa
vor us with a description of their high-toned, and, I may add, musical Alma Mater.
A Visitor.
Tears.
Tears, ordinarily, are the expression of some inward sorrow preying upon the mind and destroying j its natural peace. Like the bearer of a flag of truce	’
who, amid a fierce battle comes forward from one side to the other to seek a cessation of hostilities, so the little tear comes forth to manifest the strife within and to plead for a stop to further struggle. How few there are who consider how appropriate it is that the eye should be the seat’ of our tears. For there, mingling and blending with the very beauty of the eye itself, it is impossible that our tears should escape unobserved; no, the very source must, or rather should command our sympathy and attention. Yet there are men whose hearts are so hardened by wickedness that they are incapable of being moved even by tears.	?
If we place a substance in a vessel already filled with water it will overflow; in like manner, when any additional burden is placed upon a heart already filled with sorrow, it will, so to speak, overflow, and this overflowing is effected through that silent yet eloquent utterer, the tear. Who of us has not at some time of our life shed tears? Christ Himself shed tears, aye, bitter, sacred tears of blood, and His holy Mother gave way to them more than once during her pious and sanctified life. In all states and conditions of life man is subject to them; from the cradle to the grave tears are shed.
See the fond mother seated beside her little one who in sleep dreams of some pleasure of which it has been deprived. Suddenly its face darkens, and a little tear comes forth from either eye and glides noiselessly down its cheek, and then, perhaps, is chased away by the sunshine of a smile which soon steals over its face. See that mother as she looks upon that little, babe and thinks of the life which is before it. She has brought before her mind all the difficulties which that child will have to encounter; and whilst wondering whether it will ever be able to surmount them she finds the outflow of a true mother’s heart in that silent tear gliding over her cheek. Some twenty years pass and the child has become a young man, enjoying all the gilded pleasures of life, too heedless now to drop a tear, I or rather1 too manly to weep. And the good	I
mother? Ah! the furrows upon her care-worn	1
cheek show that her babe has disappointed her ex-	■
pectations. Yet ten years later: the son’s coun-	■
tenance shows that the constant trickling of his	I
mother’s tears have worn away his hardness of	I
heart; and the mother’s face shows well what a	I
mother’s tears can accomplish.	I
Hard, hard indeed is the heart that can resist the	■
mighty eloquence of a tear, and hard is the heart	fi
that denies mercy at the pleading of. the modest	||
tear. Modest? yes; great because of its modesty,	j|
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ’	37
and almost sublime because of its simplicity. Yes, the simple tear stealing down the cheek of a face which to all appearances is calm can express more than all the words in the. world, and in a grander, greater and more sublime manner. That little drop of water coming from the eye is capable of all this, yet we probably do not think of it once in a thousand times. Since the time of creation tears enough have fallen to fill a large sea, simply on account of the cruel and perverse ways of men; in time of war the tears of the widows and orphans have been sufficient to wash the blood from the battle-field. Sins, like intemperance, have broken up happy homes, separated the most intimate of friends, and have been the cause of tears enough to constitute a mighty torrent; and in nearly every case the evils were and are of such a nature that did the doers but think before acting, or even seek to repair the wrong they had committed, it is almost impossible to imagine how great a tide of grief would have been checked.
Therefore, whenever we see the tears sparkling like jewels in the eyes of some poor unfortunate, let our kindest and deepest sympathy be awakened; let them always have a true claim upon all that is ours and which is capable of allaying the sufferings and Sorrows of those giving way to affliction, and and thus we will be aided in our determinations of never being the cause of another’s tears. Watch the eye, regard it as the beacon light of the mind, and when it indicates the coming tear, let the tear be the flag of truce against further grievances the solicitor of smiles, the sparkling jewel, which may attract our sympathy.	M. E. D.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from Murphy & Co., of Baltimore, a copy of “Kerney’s Compendium of Ancient and Modern History,” revised and enlarged, a notice of which will appear next week. Also, a notice of “Scott-Brown’s Text-Book of Phonography.”
Catholic Pioneers of America. By John O’Kane Murray, M. A., M. D. New York:P. J. Kenedy, 5 Barclay Street.
This volume gives a succinct history of the great Catholic laborers in America, beginning with the immortal Columbus and ending with the venerable Father Badin, the “Apostle of the West,” well-known to many yet living at Notre Dame. Altogether, these personages form a long list. Names are mentioned'which, it is safe to say, the great majority of Catholics never heard of, and yet they are the names of men who accomplished wonders in spreading the light of the Gospel and diffusing the truths of Christianity among the savages of the western wilds. We cheerfully recommend the work to our readers and bespeak for it an extensive circulation.
—The North American Review for September has for its leading article a very forcible present
ment, by Dorman B. Eaton, of the evils produced by the practice of levying “ Political Assessments.” The paper is noteworthy for its striking array of facts, but more so because it will be universally regarded as the ultimatum of the large and influential section of the Republican Party, addressed to the party leaders. “ Oaths in Legal Proceedings,” by Judge Edward A. Thomas, is a discussion of the question whether the interests of morality and of public justice would not be promoted by the abrogation of all laws requiring testimony to be given under the sanction of an oath. Thompson B. Maury, late of the Signal Office, contributes an article on “Tornadoes and their Causes,” which, in addition to its scientific interest, possesses the merit of suggesting many practical measures for averting disaster to life and property from wind-storms. “Architecture in America,” by Clarence Cook, is marked by a freedom of utterance that is refreshing. In this respect it deserves to rank with Commander Gor-ringe’s celebrated paper on the United States Navy. Augustus G. Cobb writes of “Earthburial and Cremation”; and J. F. Manning, in an article entitled “ The Geneva Award and the ShipOwners,” sets forth the justice of the claims of consignors of cargoes and owners of vessels to indemnification out of the Geneva Award fund, for losses from the acts of Confederate cruisers. The-. Review is sold by booksellers and newsdealers generally.
—The Century opens its September number with a sketch of Thomas Bewick, of Newcastle, the pioneer of English engravers, with fac-simile illustrations of some of his works. An article on “ Ocean Steamships,” by S. G. W. Benjamin, contains much information. “ The Original of Rebecca in Ivanhoe,” by Gratz Van Rensselaer, is accompanied with an engraving of Sunnyside, Irving’s home on the Hudson, by. Vanderhoof. The suggestion of this character, as we are here told, was given Scott by his friend Washington Irving, the original being a friend of Irving’s, an American Jewess, Miss Rebecca Gratz, of Philadelphia, Pa. “An Old Town with a History” is very well sketched by Mr. Noah Brooks. A little accurate knowledge, however, of the history and actual methods of the early Catholic missionaries of California would convince Mr. Brooks of the untruth of the statement “that they were accustomed to lasso their Indian wards, baptize them, and let them run”; Catholics do not believe in ramming faith down a man’s throat with the muzzle of a gun, and no one but a Puntan, who himself believes in such procedure, would attribute such a thing to them. “ The Academic Career of Ex-President Woolsey,” of Yale, by George P. Fisher, is a paper of special interest to collegians, and a record of one of the most remarkable men of the present age. There are two fine engravings of Ex-President Woolsey—one full-length, by Shussler, from a photograph of the statue by John F. Weir; the other from the bust by St. Gaudens. Edmund W, Gosse gives us' an interest-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
big sketch, with a portrait, of “ Dante Gabriel Ro-setti,” who, with Millais, Holman Hunt, and others, started what is called the “ Pre-Raphaelite School” of Art in England. “ Ningpo and the Buddhist Temples,” by Constance F. G. Cumming, is fairly illustrated by the writer and others. AV. D. Howells positively runs riot in the current chapters of “ A Modern Instance.” One. feels like remonstrating with him for putting people in such dire straits, but we presume he would answer as Thackeray did on a similar occasion, “ I didn’t do it; they did it themselves.” It is a sad fact that there-are Bartleys in real life, and weak Marcias to link their fate with theirs, but why should they be brought into novels to disgust the reader?—un-less, perhaps, it be Mr. Howells’s intention to disgust the other Bartleys with the reflection in the mirror, in which case we wish the author success. Bartley’s bearishness plays the Dickens with Howells’ novel, and spoils what would be otherwise pleasant reading. Among other interesting papers in this number of The Century is a sketch—with a splendid portrait by Cole—of Mark Twain (Samuel L. Clemens).
Scientific Notes.
—At St. Xavier’s Observatory, Calcutta, solar disturbances are not only observed but taken down by the electric pen, and thus made observable to all, and at all times.
—Austrian astronomers now claim to possess the largest refracting telescope in the world, that lately completed at Vienna. The length of this instrument is thirty-three feet and six inches.
—Dr. Siemens calculates that the present annual yield of all the coal mines of the earth would suffice to keep up the fire of the sun, at its present intensity of light and heat, for about the forty millionth part of a second.
—The Figaro learns that Mr. Van. Ryssel-berghe, who has found how to communicate at great distances telephonically on the ordinary telegraphic wires, is going to sell his discovery for $200,000 to the French Government. Mr. Coch-ery, the French Postmaster-General, is much impressed with its importance.
—An explosive has been invented by M. Petri, a Viennese engineer. The name given to, it is dynamogen, and it is likely to compete seriously with gunpowder. The inventor states that it contains neither sulphuric acid, nitric acid nor nitro-glycerine, and that it cannot injure in any way either gun or cartridge. The charge of dynamogen is in the form of a solid cylinder, which can be increased in quantity,' without being increased in size,'by compression. The manufacture of dynamogeh is very simple and without danger. It preserves its qualities in the coldest
or hottest weather, and can be made at 40 per cent, less cost than gunpowder.
—The new series of excavations commenced by Dr. Schliemann this year at Hissarlik, remained for many weeks unattended by any discoveries of moment. A communication, however, which has just been received from him by Prof. Virchow of Berlin, announces that he has once more been successful. He has brought to light architectural re-mains of the highest interest. In the lower portion of the hill of Hissarlik he has opened a series of halls, corridors, and vaults, which, according to his confident belief, are ruins of the citadel of ancient Pergamos. Dr. Schliemann adds that the researches he has recently been, prosecuting have convinced him that the views he has hitherto held respecting the site of Ilium, and of many of the relics he formerly discovered, will require much modification.
—The Nezv York World has been publishing interviews with scientists and physicians on the question whether it is possible to convey the germs	।
of disease in ice formed from impure water. Dr,	|
Carbally, associate editor of The Sanitary Magazine, says: “My conviction is so strong that it amounts to positive belief that if bacteria or any element of disease is in the water before it is frozen, it will remain in the ice undestroyed and will be liberated when the ice is thawed. We know that fish have remained frozen in ice for long periods without being killed. < We know that frost will not destroy the germs of yellow fever, scarlet fever, small-pox or any other contagious disease.” Dr. Vanderpool, formerly health officer, thinks that disease can be disseminated just as well by ice as by water. Many physicians are urging the importance of using pure ice, not only for drinking purposes, but also for packing meats, etc.
—It must be gratifying to Mr. St. George Mi-vart to know that the portion of Mr. Darwin’s theories which has been consistently opposed by the Catholic scientist as an unproved hypothesis, , : viz., the power of “ natural selection ” to produce a species, was at last practically disowned by Mr. ■ Darwin himself. In the last edition of his Descent of Man the great naturalist says:—“ I now admit, after reading the essay of Ntegeli on plants, and the remarks by various authors with respect to animals, that, in the earlier editions of my Origin of Species, I probably attributed too much to the action of Natural Selection or the Survival of the	<
Fittest. I had not formerly sufficiently consid-	J
ered the existence of many structures which ap-	I
pear to be, as far as we can judge, neither beneficial	I
nor injurious.” Nor is this all, for after describing	I
the wonderful mechanism employed in the fertili-	I
zation of certain orchids, he says it is inconceiv-	I
able that such organs should have been formed by	I
chance. These utterances are examples of the	h
fine intellectual honesty by which Mr. Darwin	h
was distinguished, and it is a pity ..that all his.fol-
lowers do not emulate his candor. .	. ; j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39
College Gossip.
—Cornell rejoices in a new baseball field, provided by the president of the college.
—President Eliot says it cost $2,000, even with the strictest economy, to keep a young man at Harvard four years.—Pa. Univ. Magazine.
—“ A College Series of Latin Authors,” edited by Prof. C. L. Smith, of Harvard, and Prof. Tracy Peck, of Yale, is being issued by Ginn & Heath.
—The Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College is to be removed from Baton Rouge to Rapides parish, near Alexandria.
—Ex-Secretary Fish declares himself opposed ' to co-education “ from the very fact that young men and young women are in the same classes.”— Harvard Herald.	'	.
—The Rev. John J. Murphy, S. J., formerly of Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., and latterly at Woodstock, Md., has been appointed to succeed the Very Rev. Father Fulton, S. J., as rector of St. Gonzaga’s College, Washington.
—The first scholarships of the Royal University of Ireland have been awarded. Among the competitors for these prizes of .£50 each for three years were a few women; but on this occasion all the six scholarships were earned off by men.	.
—It is said that the ladies of the Harvard annex declined an invitation to join the recently organized association of “ Collegiate Alumnae,” the object of which is to unite alumnae of different institutions for practical educational work.—Harvard Herald.
—Amherst College has been unfortunate. One or two of her finest buildings, including the Gymnasium, were entirely destroyed by fire, near the close of the last session. Entire loss amounted to $185,000, of which $72,000 will be covered by insurance.
—Some of the students at Harvard defray their expenses by tutoring. For tutoring a classmate, a tutor charges $1 per hour; for tutoring those in classes below him, $2 per hour. A graduate tutor usually gets $3 per hour.—Pennsylvania University Mag.
—Arrangements have been made by which some of the college lectures at Oxford will be thrown open to female students. Among the lectures thus opened will be those by the Master of University on English history, by Mr. Butcher, on Greek literature, and by Mr. Pelham on ancient history.
—Senator Joseph Brown, of Georgia, gave $50,000 to the State University at Athens, the interest on which is to be used for educating poor young men. Good for Senator Brown! We have not heard that any rich Catholics made a gift to any Catholic college. Bad for the rich Catholics!— Catholic Mirror,
—A valuable addition to the Amherst College art gallery has been recently received by Professor Mather, in the shape of two rare and costly casts. One is Michael Angelo’s “Il Penseroso,” and is the only cast of the statue in America. The other is the “ Sleeping Ariadne,” the original of which is • an antique in the Vatican.-—Cornell Sun.	t
—The academy catalogues of this year contain the usual number of poodle-dog names attached to alleged Christian children. Birdie, and' Tiny, and . Flossie, and Dorie, and Lou, figure extensively in the reports so far received, while baptismal names are scarce, indeed. Here is an abuse to be cor- -rected, not by children but by their teachers.
—Northwestern Chronicle.
—The athletic grounds at Yale cover thirty acres, with tennis, archery, cricket and football field, three baseball fields, and a rifle range. The college authorities bear half ..the’expense of the grounds.—Badger.	■
. The athletic grounds at Notre Dame University are about 20 acres in extent, and are kept in order entirely at the expense of the College authorities.
—The cause of Catholic education, in northern India has received a great impulse during the current year, by the establishment at the Mura Hills of the College of St. Thomas Aquinas, on the Knockrow estate, purchased last year for •_ the purpose by the Right Rev. Paul Tosi, O. S. F. C., Vicar-Apostolic of the Punjab. There was till now not a single Catholic college in the Vicariate.	"
—We learn from Les Annales Catholiques that the subscription opened for the establishment of Catholic free schools amounts to over six hundred thousand francs. The committee having the management of this fund is composed of MM. Chesne-long, Senator; Chesnier du Chesne, D. Cochin, Amedee Dufour, Vicomte de Gontaut Biron, E. Herve Baron de Makau, Deputy; F. Magnard, ' Abel Raimbau, Saint Genest.
—The Jesuit Fathers who, on the expulsion of the Society from France, opened a collegiate school at Hales Place, just outside Canterbury, have recently purchased another estate on the banks of the Stour. Their new college, of which the cost is estimated at a sum not. much below £90,000, will be one of. the largest scholastic establishments in England, in connection with the Society. The architect is Father Richard Vaughan, of St. Francis Xavier’s, Liverpool. •
—St. Cuthbert’s . College, Ushaw, has gained honorable distinction in the world of letters. A student of the College, Mr. John Wallis, son of Mr. Wallis, formerly of the London Tablet, and now British Consul at Port Said, not only passed the M. A. examination at the London University with marked honors, but obtained the Gold Medal, which has only been awarded twelve times during the last forty-six years. It was the second time that a Ushaw student had won this distinc- _ tion. _	- r
4°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
INotre Dame, September 23, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We are pleased to hear that a Band is about to be formed in the Junior department. It is a move in the right direction, and, we have no doubt, it will prove successful. For the past few years the Juniors have managed to maintain an Orchestra, which has at times delighted us with beautiful music; we have reason to expect that this year the Juniors, with their Band and Orchestra, will rival their larger brethren of the Seniors. In this connection we may also mention that there are various musical, associations, with which all who have the requisite taste anti ability—and these are by no means few, especially as regards vocal music—should connect themselves.
—Among the many opportunities afforded the student at Notre Dame to perfect his education, not the least may be found in the various societies existing in the College. They are of a triple character, corresponding to the threefold nature of man’s education, which, it is said, in order to be perfect, must be moral, intellectual and physical. For man, being composed of soul and body, the education which he receives' must tend to the development of the powers of both. The two
grand faculties of the human soul are the intellect and will, which depend upon each other, and require each its own training and direction in order to the proper perfection of the whole spiritual nature. But man is not wholly spiritual, he possesses also a body; and, in his present condition, the development of this forms an integral constituent of his perfection as a human being. The whole system of education at Notre Dame tends to the attainment of this perfect development, and, as we said before, one of the means provided therefor is to be found in the different societies. -
To illustrate—for the perfection of the student’s moral nature, the religious societies present special advantages which cannot be overlooked. It is true that these are not intended for non-Catholic students, and this leads us to remark that there are general means by which the moral training of all -is provided for; by precept, by example, by instruction, and various other means, the morals of all are disciplined and guarded. But the Catholic student cannot afford to neglect the advantages which the membership of these societies brings with it. They are called Confraternities, and exist one in each department; they meet regularly every week, are presided over by one of the Fathers, assisted by several others, one of whom at each meeting gives a short, practical instruction on some point of doctrine or morals; essays on religious subjects are written and read by members appointed for the purpose; the whole interspersed with devotional music, instrumental and vocal, all of which combines to make a pleasant and instructive reunion. Certainly, one who is devoted and in earnest must receive therefrom a lasting impression, and have implanted deeply within his heart principles of true morality, which will remain fixed, and in after-life serve as a guide and monitor amid the temptations and troubles of a busy world.
The literary societies assist, in no small degree, in the perfection of the student’s intellectual development. There are quite a number of these associations in the University, two in each department, and all are invited to avail themselves of the advantages which they offer. The benefits which a membership in these societies confer are too obvious to require any comment; their objects are fully specified, and, needless to say, the proper means are employed to carry out their ends. Essaywriting, debates, oratorical exercjses are among these means, and one can easily understand how they give to the student that facility and fluency in writing and speaking which must necessarily be of great service to him, no matter in what station of life he may be placed. Besides these—and they might be considered as adjuncts—there are dramatic and elocutionary associations, the members of which, being called upon to appear often in public, are enabled to acquire that freedom from restraint, and that self-control, which should be possessed by all following any public profession.
Finally, there are the associations whose object is physical culture; among these may be classed the Boat Club, Gymnastic Clubs, Baseball Clubs;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
etc. It is unnecessary to speak at length of them; they each furnish a means of physical culture which, in some way or another, must be attended to. The well-known principle, Mens sana in cor--pore sano, is but too true to be overlooked. If the student desires to succeed, he must not disregard physical exercise, and no better means to this end can be found than those furnished by the athletic associations which we have mentioned.
;	These few remarks are designed simply to call
attention to what many indeed fully appreciate, I	but which many more apparently do not observe.
. The membership of the various societies this year is larger than ever before, but we would wish to see it still larger; at least let it be in proportion to the great increase in numbers.
speedily admitted into the realms of everlastincr bliss!	'	°
Personal.
Obituary.
DANIEL E. MALONY, S. M., ’74.
It is our painful duty to chronicle the loss of another g-enial friend, and one of the most brilliant minds that evei* did credit to Notre Dame. Although his twenty-eighth year was barely completed, he had already made his mark in the world. Though born in the Green Mountain State, the early age at which his family sought a Western home has permanently associated his name among ।,	us with that of the great State of Illinois. From
the fall of 1871 to the spring of 1874, he was a well-known figure in our halls, his name being a synonym for excellence in all collegiate pursuits, athletic as well as intellectual. His education having commenced with a view to ecclesiastical life, he was already an advanced student in the learned languages when he arrived at Notre Dame, and although he pursued here the Scientific Course, he did not neglect his Latin and Greek, and could ;	have been graduated in the Classical Course, had
!	he so desired. As it was, he carried away the
honors of the great class of ’74, the largest ever graduated at Notre Dame. He was also Captain of the Hiawatha, the winning boat of his graduating year, as well as a prominent member of the Thespian, Philodemic and Scientific associations. After leaving the University, he devoted himself to the practice of law, with Judge Ran-stead, of Elgin, Illinois.. His love for his Alma Mater prompted frequent returns here, among the most interesting of which visits was that in the «	fall of 1879, during which his nuptials were cele-
brated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. His political career, though short, was
i brilliant. In 1880, during the Presidential' cam-■ paign, although a Democrat, he carried the Republican. city in which he resided, and ran ahead of S	his ticket in the county. Unhappily, his exertions
during this campaign occasioned the disorder i	which finally carried him off—consumption. He
died early on the morning of the 18th inst., after painful and prolonged sufferings, which he bore with Christian resignation. May. his soul be
—T. J. Byrnes, of ’77, is farming near Lima, N. Y.	•	.
—John Flaherty, of ’74, has a railway agency in St. Paul, Minn.
—Rev. James J. Quinn, ’79, is stationed at the Cathedral, Peoria, Ill.
—James Burns (Com’l), ’81 is keeping books for his father in Columbus, Ohio.-	.
—John Harrison, of ’79, has entered the Provincial Seminary at Troy, New' York.
—Thos. M. O’Leary, of ’72, is studying theology at St. Francis Seminary, Milwaukee.
—John J. Quinn, ’79, is continuing his theological studies at St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, Md.
—John Donavin, of ’72, is “Blue Ribbon” clerk at the Citizens’ Wharf, Vicksburg, Miss.
—Jesse Houck (Com’l), ’79, is a leading merchant in one of the principal cities of Oregon.
—P. H. Vogel, of ’78, is a member of the firm of Lind & Vogel, dry-goods merchants,' Columbus, Ohio.
—J. B. Zettler, of ’82, is in partnership with his father, in the wholesale grocery business, in Columbus, Ohio.	•
—John M. Gearin, ’69, at one time a member of the State Legislature of Oregon, and subsequently State Treasurer—is now sojourning-in California for the benefit of his health. Our best wishes attend him for a speedy restoration of his former vigor and activity.
—E. A. Milner, of ’70, has been elected Superintendent of Schools at Corvallis, Oregon. We congratulate Mr. Milner on this public recognition of his merits. Some of the “ old boys ” still survive at Notre Dame who remember Ed. and rejoice at the success which attends him.
—The beautiful little city of Miamisburg, Ohio, is the home of some of Notre Dame’s oldest and best students. There may be foiind located Dr. W. P. Weaver, of ’66, Dr. C. A. Hoff", of ’65, one or two lawyers and several merchants whose names we cannot recall,-also I. Treon, of ’82.
—Luke J. Evers, ’79, (a former editor of the Scholastic), who is finishing his theological studies at the Provincial Seminary at Troy, N. Y., writes to one of the boys that he is in excellent health and spirits. Luke received the first of the Major Orders at the last Trinity Sunday ordination, and it is not unreasonable to suppose that by next Christmas he will be elevated to the priesthood. Our best washes go with our old confrere. He says he has had .a letter from M. l’Abbe McGrath, ’80, who is . doing well in Paris, and likes the place first-rate.
42
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Chef!
—“Justice ”!
—And still they come.
—Is that meeting over yet?
—The Law Class is largely attended.
. —Our weather-prophet predicts a dry fall.
—We should have said Centennial Parisian Dinner.
—It is to be hoped that our friend John will keep the peace.
—It is said that “The Upstart” will be brought out on the 13th.
—Prof. Stace is engaged in making a plat of the College grounds.
'—The six Colorado Minims are among the best boys in the department.
—Class honors in the Preparatory Course will be published next week.
—We must request our correspondents not to write on both sides of the sheet. ,
—A grand celebration is taking place during the present-week at Chihuahua. •
—Work began last Monday morning on the removal'of tlie Minim play-hall.
—The length of the new Gymnasium is 165 ft., and not 145 as mentioned last week.
—Our “ Locals ” this week have crowded out other matter, which will appear in our next.
—In consequence of the large attendance, it has become necessary to provide extra dormitories.
—“ Muldoon ” is in training for the mile-race, on the 13th, and is certain to carry off the prize.
—The Juniors return thanks to Prof. Lyons for some beautiful hanging baskets for their studyhall.
—It is expected that his Excellency the Governor-General of Chihuahua will soon visit Notre Dame.
—The President of the University has secured for the Library an appropriation of $500 from the Board, of Trustees.	-
—All at Notre Dame were glad to learn that the reports in regard to the death of Dr. Philip Chaves were unfounded.
—The students who remained here during vacation tender a vote of thanks to Profs. Lyons and Edwards for favors received.
z —We are gratified to hear that Rev. Father 1/Delahunty has kindly promised to donate a valuable set of books to the library.
—We would suggest that the upper part of the Juniors’ Campus be levelled and cleared off, so that it may present a less unsightly appearance.
—The Minims’ Campus has been extended, and. thereby greatly improved. It now takes in about six acres and has an excellent bycicle course. .
■ —The Confraternities have been reorganized.
We have.no doubt .they will be as numerously attended, and as much profited by as in years past, j/—The Library now numbers some 16,000 volumes, and the number increases daily, thanks to the indefatigable zeal of the Librarian, Prof. J. F. Edwards.
—The tile flooring still continues to be the great attraction. Prof. Gregori says that the various tints harmonize most beautifully with the mural paintings.
—Improvements have been made in the culinary department. Our correspondent, however, disclaims any credit therefor. He has enough on his hands now.
—We think the Seniors have the finest college Campus in the United States. It is in better order this year than we have ever seen it before. The Campus takes in about seven or eight acres of level land.
—The Crescent Club Quartette is composed of the following gentlemen: Leader and First Violin, Frank Wheatley; Second Violin, Raphael Becerra; Bass, James Marlette; Cornet, Frank Quinn.
- —Some of the boys are busy burnishing the muskets in the armory, which had been neglected somewhat during vacation. With the Rockford Polish they will soon, we doubt not, make a “ right smart job ” of the musket-cleaning.
—Knight’s “ Life of Columbus ” is being read in the Seniors’ dining-room. It is not an easy task to fill the immense hall, but the leading Euglossians, whom the genial director appoints, manage to “fill the bill.”—(No! it’s not the bill of fare.')
—Does the weather change with the moon? Sir William Thomson tells the British Science Association that there is no connection between the two. things, as far as he can discover, and he has studied them.—Ex.
We call upon our weather-prophet for “judgment.”
—Prof. Lyons will celebrate the Silver Jubilee of his Professorial career sometime during the present session. We may well say that the Professor looks as young and hearty now, as when he first entered upon the work which, though arduous, has been to him a labor of love.
—Rev. President Walsh visited the Minims last week, and told them that their number would fun up to 100 before Christmas. No sooner were the words spoken than there' ensued a perfect stampede; a delegation repaired at once to Very Rev. Father General’s room to see if he had given any orders about the Parisian dinner.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm has been chosen Superintendant of the Geological, Mineral and Chemical Bureau of the Northern Indiana Fair, of which the well-known statesman, Aaron Jones, Esq., of South Bend, is the President. The fair will be held during the first week of October. It is said the Notre Dame exhibit will be the finest presented, and will constitute a leading feature of the occasion. ■	’	.
—The members of. the Lemonnier Boat Club
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
met Wednesday evening, Sept. 13th, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session. The election resulted as follows: Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director; Rev. J. M. Toohey, President; W. H. Arnold, Commodore; T. F. Clarke, Secretary; W. J. McCarthy, Treasurer. At the same meeting several new members were voted in. The Club is in a flourishing condition this year, financially considered.
—The Scientific Association will be reorganized in a short time. Since its establishment as a society, the members have been the principal contributors to the pages of the Scholastic. It is no small praise to say that their articles have been extensively copied by many journals-throughout the country. We have every reason to expect that this year they will fully sustain the reputation of the Association, and even surpass the record of former years. It is needless to say that the columns of the Scholastic will always be open to immortalize their effusions.
—At a meeting of the Athletic Association, held Thursday, Sept. 14th, for the purpose of reorganizing, the following officers were elected: Bro. Paul, Director; F. B. Devoto, President; M. T. Burns, Vice-President; F. E. Kuhn, Recording Secretary; R. E. Fleming, Corresponding Secretary; T. F. Clarke, Treasurer; F. Monaghan, W. Bolton, Property Managers. Jas. R. Marlette was elected Captain of the “ Star of the East,” and R. E. Fleming Captain of the “ University.” After several new members had been elected, the meeting adjourned.
—On Sunday, the 17th inst., the Very Rev. Father L’Etourneau, Master of Novices, celebrated the 25th anniversary of his ordination. Though the good Father kept rather quiet about his “ Silver Jubilee,” still his numerous friends were on the alert and assembled to congratulate him. The Band from the University was on hand and discoursed choice music; altogether, the occasion was made a joyous one. We beg leave to congratulate Father L’Etourneau upon this happy anniversary, and express the wish that his life may not be ended at least before the “ Golden Jubilee.”
—The clicking of half a dozen or more sounders as one passes the second story of the Rotunda shows that the Telegraphy Class is again in full operation. The wires in the class-room connect with the regular station wires in the telegrapher’s office, and, occasionally, messages are transmitted back and forth. No running up or down-stairs to call the telegrapher;—you step in and inquire for him,—a few clicks of the sounder from a member of the class and here he is, or you may be told that he is engaged just now in sending a message and will be up in a few moments. Truly, this lightning-slinging is a wonderful business.
—The first regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic Club was held Monday evening, Sept. 18th, for the purpose of. reorganizing and electing officers for the present term. The following were elected; Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director; Prof. J.
A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Honorary President; J. H. Browne, Vice-President; . R. Becerra, Treasurer; J. Marlette, Recording Secretary; T. P. Fenlon, Jr., Corresponding Secretary; H. Morse, First Censor; Joseph Farrell, Librarian; F. Wheatly, Second Censor ;„E. B. Blackman, Marshal; D. C. Saviers, Sergeant-at-Arms; W. Bailey, W. Ayers, Property Managers.	.
—South Bend not only beats the world in its facilities for turning out first-class wagons, carriages, cldver-hullers and plows, but also for its progressive manner of editing newspapers. The Tribune of that city has first-class editorials ground out at will, and to any length, by a Miller—a man that stands high in the profession; the Register’s editorials are drawn through a Fassett, and are up to . the mark every time. The Time's^ of course, is not lacking in facilities for (S)peed and general excellence, and has always on hand a plentiful supply of the raw material for its compositors and patrons. Who says South Bend is not a progress- " • ive city?	'	.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held Sept. 10th; twenty-four old ’ members were present. The following officers were elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Critic; W. H. Arnold, 1st Vice-President; T. F. Clarke, 2d Vice-President; M. E. Donohue, Historian; A. J. Zahm, Treas- -urer; W. M. Bailey, Recording Secretary; Jas. Solon, Corresponding Secretary; M. T. Bums, Librarian; F. Gallagher, 1st Censor; C. Tinley, ■ 2d Censor; F. E. Kuhn, 1st Charge d'Affaires/J. A. McIntyre, 2d Charge d’Affaires; R. Anderson, 3d Charge d'Affaires; W. Gray, Sergeant- ' at-Arms; J. P. O’Neill, Marshal; R. E. Fleming, Prompter.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Sept. 9th. The following- officers were elected for the coming session: Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant Director; J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President; A. J. Stace, A. M., Critic; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; ' A. A. Browne, 1st Vice-President; Dan G. Taylor, 2d Vice-President; W. Schott, President Or-phionic Branch; Jno. Fendrich, Recording Secretary; M. L. Foote, Treasurer; Jas. Courtney, Corresponding Secretary; W. Coghlin, Librarian; M. Dolan, 1st Censor; F. Johnson, 2d Censor; G. Schaefer, 1 st Monitor; J. Courtney, 2d Monitor; H. P. Dunn, Sergeant-at-Arms; W. Jeannot, Marshal; H. Foote, 1st Property Manager; C.Achoflj 2d Property Manager; E. Dillon, Prompter. .
—The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held on Sept. . 9th, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session. ' The election resulted as follows: ■_ Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. At Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. J..F. Edwards, LL. B., Honorary President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; L, Gibert, 1st Vice-President; F. Lund,
44
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2d Vice-President; F. Fishel, Recording Secretary; F. Kengel, Treasurer; H. Metz, Corresponding Secretary; A. Brewster, Librarian; W. Han-navin, ist Censor; P. Yrisarri, 2d Censor; E. Wile, Sergeant-at-Arms; J. Livingston, Marshal; J. Zaehnle, ist Property Manager; J. Goldsmith, 2d Property Manager; R. Devereux, T. Walsh, Prompters. Prof. A. J. Stace has kindly consented to act as Critic;-he also promises to write a historical drama for the members, which will surpass the other dramas that he has written heretofore.
—The first regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Sept. 9th. Officers were elected as follows: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, and Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Honorary Directors; Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, Director; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Prof. J. F. Edwards, President; Bro. Francis Regis, Promoter; J. J. McGrath, ist VicePresident; J. A. Hopkins, 2d Vice-President; P. P. Johnson, Secretary; F. Whitney, Treasurer; E. A. Thomas, Librarian; F. Otis, 1st Marshal; L. Young, 2d Marshal; W. P. Devine, ist Monitor; J. S. Chaves, 2d Monitor; R. V. Papin, ist Censor; A. Windsor, 2d Censor; J. M. Studebaker, 3d Censor; C. Metz, 4th Censor; C. McGordon, .Sergeant-at-Arms; W. Welch, Property Manager; W. Prindiville, Assistant Property Manager. At the close of the election a committee was appointed to wait on Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, and Rev. Father O’Connell, to notify them of their election. The Secre-
• tary of the Association was authorized to write to the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger. The meeting closed with some interesting remarks from the President, who congratulated the Association on having so many bright, promising members at the beginning of the session.	.
o o
—On Sept. 17th a match game of baseball was played on the College grounds between the “ Star of the East” and the“ University” Clubs, resulting in a victory for the former. The players appeared in uniform and the game was witnessed by numerous visitors. The following is the score:
- STAR OF THE EAST.	O.J	rJ	university.	0. | R.
J. Browne, s. s.	-	2	1 M. Donahue, 3d b.	2! 3
J. Marlette, c. 3.	3	1 F. Wheatly, p.	3! 1
C. Garrett, 1. f.	a	1 R. Fleming, 2d b.	.3- 0
W. Arnold, r. f.	3	0 H. Morse, ist b.	4! 1
J. Guthrie, c.-f.	2	1 H. Noble, s. s.	3 0
J. Carroll, p.	3	1 C. Tinley, c. f.	3. 0
F. Kuhn, 2d b. •	9	2 W. Ayers, c.	31 0
F- Gallagher, 3d b.	4	0 F. Clarke, 3d b.	3j 1
M. Burns, 1st b.	3	1 W. O’Connor, 1. f.	J 1
Total, •	24	8 Total,	27' 7
Umpire, H. Deehan; Scorers, G. Castenado, G.
Rhodius; Time of game, 2 hours.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. C. Armijo, T. Ashford, F..M. Ball, W. E. Bowers, J. J. Brady, J. F. Browne, M. T. Burns, W. H. Bailey, W. S. Bolton, R. Becerra, A. P. Coll, T. Carroll, C. E. Carroll, J. T. Carroll, S. Crawford, T. Coakley, E. Chelini, G. Castenado, G. Clements, J. Conway, A. Coghlin, T. F. Clarke, W. Cleary, J. Donohue, M. E. Donohue, H. Drover, A. Dorsey, Jas. Delaney, Jno. Delaney, J. Deinhart, N. H. Ewing, B. Eaton, F. Freese, J. Farrell, H. Fitzgerald, R. Fitzgerrell, R. Fleming, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, T. Flynn, E. Gall, J. Grever, C. A. Garrett, J. Guthrie, A. J. Golon-ski, W. Grange, F. W. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, G. Gordon, W. Hofstetter, J. Heffernan, A. Jones, W. H. Johnston, J. P. Keller, J. Kelly, C. C. Kolars, G. A. Kimmell, A. Koehler, F. E. Kuhn, L. Kavanaugh, E. L. Lease, J. C. Larkin, F. Monoghan, G. McErlaine, J. Marlett, W. McCarthy, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, J. Molloy, E. Mullen, J. McIntyre, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, H. W. Morse, H. Noble, J. Neeson, T. Noonan, W. Orchard, W. J. O’Connor, J. O’Neill, E. A. Otis, E. J. O’Brien, F. Paquette, L. Pour, R. Parrott, S. Pillars, A. Peery, F. Quinn, W. Ratterman, G. Rhodius, J. M. Rodgers, W. Ryan, W. Ruger, J. Sturla, J. Solon, F. Stover, C. L. Smith, T. E. Steele, C. M. Stull, E. W. Seitz, C. D. Saviers, B. Scholfield, P. Spencer, C. Tinley, A. Wendell, J. E. Walsh, W. Warren, F. G. Wagner, J. E. Warner, F. Wheatley, W. Whalen, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. L. Austin, C. F. Ackhoff, F. Brice, A. A. Browne, W. T. Berthelet, W. F. Bacon, J. H. Bush, A. S. Brewster, J. D. Crawford, W. E. Coover, T. J. Cassilly, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, C. E. Droste, F. M. Danielson, M. A. Dolan, S. J. Dickerson, J. R. Dorenburg, E. A. Dillon, G. W. De Haven, A. Donnersberger, H. P. Dunn, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, J. Fraine, F. Ferguson, J. H. Fendrich, F. Fishel, H. Goldsmith, J. M. Grathaus, E. B. Gerlach, J. Henry, C. Hornaday, H. D. Hibbeler, H. N. Hess, J. A. Herrmann, J. J. Halligan, J. C. Hellebush, W. D. Hetz, W. F. Hanavin, E. M. Holbrook, P. Hagen, F. R. Johnson, W. E. Jeannot, J. F. Kahman, C. Kerndt, S. H. Katz, ' F. H. Kengel, J. Livingston, F. C. Lund, C. N. Ludwig; D. L. McCawley, W. T. Mug, C. Mason, F. Miller, H. M. Metz, J. T. McGordon, J. McDonnell, J. P. O’Donnell, D. A. O’Connor, B. C. Ohnick, S. L. Peery, C. C. Peters, A. Pick, J. E. Roper, J. B. Rhodus, W. J. Schott, A. P. Schillo, J. J. Smith, G. F. Seegers, G. H. Schaefer, G. S. Smeeth, F. Sanford, J. J. Talbot, A. T. Taggart, J. C. Warren, T. D. Walsh, W. P. Worcester, J. C. Wagoner, A. Wilkinson, E. J. Wile, J. E. Zaehnle, C. Zeigler, W. L. Coghlin, D. G. Taylor, J. N. Hetz, W. Dare, P. C- Cava-roc, H. G. Sells, A. M. Chirhart, C. Duffin, J. A. Ruppe, E. A. Zeitler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. J. Ackerman, E. A. Adams, J. S. Beall, J. L. Bunker, T. Bannantine, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, J. S. Chaves, W. H. Colwell, M. Cummings, F. I. Coad, J. P. Devereux, H. C. Dirksmeyer, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, H. Dyer, C. Dyer, W. Devine, A. Devine, C. Harris, H. Hynes, G. Huestis, J. A. Hopkins, P. P. Johnson, F. Kellner, C. Kane, P. Keeffe, J. Kraus, J. Luther, G. Landwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, G. Lare, J. J. McGrath, W. R. Moss, R.'D. Morrison, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, W. M. Masi, C. A. McGordon, C. Metz, W. McPhee, W. McGuire, F. I. Otis, A. J. Otis, T. Otis, J. Pick, W. Prindiville, R. V. Papin, D. Prindiville, C. Quinlin, V. A. Rebori, W. Rea, T. Roper, A. Roberts, O. Sommer, W. Stange, C. H Spencer, J. M. Studebaker, C. Smith, H. Schmitz, E.- A Thomas, S. Unger, J. Warner, E. Walsh,- F. S. Whitney, W. Welch, L. Young, C. Young, A. Windsor, E. Chirhart, Eddie Walsh.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	45 .

One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Theoretical Music Classes already organized.
—A fourth new piano must soon be added to the others.
—The Minims are very happy. Riding on the patient donkey, they , form a picturesque group among the shady trees.
—The various societies are to be reorganized this week, officers .elected, etc., whose names shall be given after the final vote.
—We have not space to give the names of visitors, but they are registered in the Visitors’ Book, left in the parlor, and can be seen at any time.
—Among our many visitors, Mrs. Gavin, of Lafayette, Ind., is always welcomed. This year, besides her own daughter, Miss Alice, she has brought three more young ladies,—the Misses Hawkins (sisters) and Miss Fowler.
—The entrances mentioned are only those in the Music Department; it is impossible to give the full Academic list, “ for still they come,” and, if appearances do not deceive, their names will often grace the Roll of Honor.
—All the classes are in full operation. The Graduating, Senior, Intermediate, Junior, and the dear little Minim -class, who seem determined to practise Very Rev. Father’s advice—“to study well, sleep well, and play very well.”
—Little Girl :—« Will you, please, tell me what is a Stacefied Stew?”
Practical Cook:—“ It is a mixture of dried improbabilities,- simmered in ancient cobwebs. No doubt it was good food for those destined to become future mummies. Take this nice, large apple, and run to play, like a ducky dumpling, and don’t forget to give the donkey a bite! ”
—The Sisters of the Holy Cross, at St. Mary’s Academy, have received, and cordially recommend to small choirs, three pieces—«O Beautiful Dove of Paradise,” for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception,—“ The Light of Adoration,” for the Sacred Heart, and a new “ Veni Creator f These hymns are not placed in the music stores, but can be obtained only from the composer, Prof. C. T. Coeniel, 541 Myrtle Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.
—The Music classes have been reorganized. After the rest from laborious practice, and enjoyment of home pleasures, our young musicians and vocalists are desirous to please still more their dear parents, who have again deprived themselves of their children’s society to further the moral, intellectual and refined training which should characterize the educated lady. The musicteachers report greater anxiety to profit by instruction, which augurs of future success. Good will,
patience, and fidelity to practice is all that is required from the pupils, and no pains will be spared by the teachers to interest them. The course is strict, according to the method recognized, from which no departure is tolerated.
—How seldom do school-girls reflect on the golden opportunity afforded them to make others happy. This year, a large proportion of entrances are strangers from every part of the Union. A pleasant smile and cheering words go far to assuage the slight feeling of home-sickness, which passes away as soon as they become interested in their various class duties. The kind words spoken in the beginning are treasured, and often shine star- .. like amidst the scenes of future life, and are never forgotten. Words which often appear light are mighty, living things—everyone has its own spirit and mission for good or for evil, blighting in their ’tendency and dangerous in their influence. Kind words are echoed in heaven! Let them then prevail. •	’
*—On the Festival of the Seven Dolors, Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, assisted by Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier as deacon and subdeacon. After Mass, Father General preached on the subject suggested by the spirit of the festival, describing in most touching sentences that great mystery of Calvary, when the Woman far excellence was made the future mother of all Christians. No words of ours could give the burning eloquence of this true successor of the Apostles, who loves our Blessed Mother as they knew and loved her. But we may hope they were impressed on the hearts of those present, and that all will practise the sublime lesson of the triumph to be reached by suffering patiently the saving cross.	•
—A Charming Scene.—The evening being • warm,—too sultry to remain in the house,—the Pavilion at Mount Carmel was lit up, and the first Academic Reunion was held there. Very Rev. Father General presided—the Rev. chaplains in their usual place, and the visitors, Mother Superior, and the Faculty being present. After the reading, and the reception of the good points, Very Rev. Father General greeted the return of former pupils, congratulating them on their good example, which certainly must have been the reason others accompanied them to school. He expressed himself pleased at the prompt obedience to the bell, and the good order, which spoke well for the regular discipline. The promise of a grand Parisian dinner when 225 will grace the. dainty viands was renewed. A chef de cuisine is already engaged—nothing wanting, but the number of pupils. Rev. Father Shortis addressed the assembly in his own happy manner, and all retired well pleased with their new home and future bright prospects.
—The following are the entrances in the Conservatory of Music from the 1st to the 16th of September: Misses Mary Campbell, Kate Campbell, Henrietta Keenan, Lena Wallace, Mary
46
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Feehan, Bertha English, Louisa English, Mary-English, Jessie English, Agnes English, May Adderly, Clara Richmond, Winifred Mosher, Mary Otis, Martha Munger, Hepsey Ramsey, Mary Coyne, Caroline Pease, Felicia Castanedo, Kate Sawyer, Annie Coakley, Harriet Van Patten, Virginia Barlow, Jane Reilly, Veronica Reilly, Maude Richardson, Minnie Hughes, Effie Johnston, Fanny Hibhins, Margarita Otero, Lily Robinson, Manualita Chaves, Belle Snowhook, Edna Burtis, Ada Shephard, Maude Dickson, Lily Van Horn, Mabel Barry, Jane Duffield, Addie Gale, Matilda Grist, Catharine Morrison, Orpha Howlett, Addie Duffield, Jane Schull, Frances Keif er, Bridget Haney, Anna Edgerly, Eveline Bathrick, Belle Johnson, Mary Nevins, Kate Donahue, Dora Best, Minnie Schmidt, Loro Williams, Anna Hechard, May Stackerl, Nettie Danforth, Augusta Hinge, Alice Sawyer, May Sullivan, Martha Otis,' Josephine Spangler, Rosa Picks, Fannie Unger, - Catharine Fehr, Ellen Rettig, Elizabeth Drover, Charlotte Alexander, Margaret Rodgers, Mary Walsh, Harriet Hunt, Agnes Dillon, Mary Dillon, Honora Brown, Sarah Dunne, Clara Ginz, E. Costigan, Sarah Campau, Elizabeth Shickey, Harriet Eldridge, Hortense Hicks, Grace Taylor, Helen McCawley, Minnie Fisk, Maude Wiley, Mary Ducey, Catharine Ducey, Mary Hetz, Ella Harris, Alice Dolan, Stella Laffer, Anna Mooney, Mary Maginis, Belle Westfall, Marion Morgan, Alida Madole, Catharine Harrigan, Mary A. Ryan, Mary Clarke, Estelle Todd, Laura Fen-drich, Ella O’Connell, Catharine Donnelly, Mary O’Connor, Ellen Donnelly, Anna Kolb, Emma Slattery, Teresa Slattery, Mary Chirhart, Caroline Sullivan, Charlotte Vanamee, Mabel Newton, Agnes Gallagher, Julia Hagan, Martha Beal, Mary Knott, Mary Coogan, Bertha Legnard, Alberta Spencer, Emma Donnerberger, Genevieve King, Mary Bowman, Annie Leydon, Emelie Mohl, Anderson, Alice Gavan, Jennie Fowler, Minnie Hawkins, Elizabeth Hawkins.
A Little Blind Child’s Idea of Music.
Pettie was seated under the old vine-covered porch. Uncle Hugh, tilted back in his chair, was enjoying the lovely twilight, and a choice Havana.
•	At times Iris eye rested tenderly on the little dar-
ling nestled among the vines, close to an open ,	window, intently listening to the sounds from her
sister Lena’s harp,—stealing forth at first in tremulous, broken chords, and little rippling interludes that lost themselves in the deep bass tones, like the ■	echo of a requiem.’ But after a few moments the
.	unseen musician ruled the instrument like an auto-
crat, compelling it to do her bidding. It wailed
I	and struggled like a human heart in agony; it
;	spoke of the grandeur of supreme sorrow, and
I	lay softly down to die in one exquisite throb of
j	sweetest treble; fainter, fainter—gone; then burst
on the ear full harmonies of triumph and victory that no 'words could ever have embodied. The enraptured listeners sat spell-bound in silence which is far beyond applause.
At last, Pettie whispered to her uncle: “Do you think anyone ever, ever could see music?”
He replied, softly, “Never.”
“ Oh, I’m so sorry! I love it so much, and thought when God sends light to my eyes, after beholding Lena’s dear face, music would be the next thing I should see. Did no one ever see it?”
“ No one, Pettie.”
The poor little face darkened. After a minute of puzzled thought, she rushed to her uncle, crying out: “I know now! It must be the soul of the light, and we shall see it in heaven.”
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Wiley, Wright, Edgerly, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Laffer, Todd, Fendrich, Ryan, Walsh, Johnson, Shickey, Donnelly, Sullivan. Keenan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Ginz, Barlow, Dunne, Ramsey, Legnard, Slattery, Richardson, Mohl, Van Patten, Pease, O’Connor, Beal, Knott, King, Bathrick, Semmes, Duffield, English, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Hechard, Stackerl, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Myer, Pick, Madole, Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O'Connell, McCoy, Leydon, Harrigan, Black, Anderson, E. Hawkins, M. Hawkins, Fowler, Chirhart, Kolb, Slattery, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Hunter, .Rettig, Harris, McCawley, B. English, G. Legnard, Donahue, Hughes, A. Dolan, Donnerberger, McCarten, Gallagher, Schull, Hagan, Castenado, Newton, Drover, Pampell, A. Gavan, Eldridge, Hintz, Maginis, Maguire, Mooney.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Alexander, Best, Brown, Considine, Coogan. Coyne, Chaves, Donnelly, Duffield, M. Dillon, Ducey, C, Ducey, Dignan, English, Ewing, Fehr, Fisk, Gale, Grist, Hibben, Hetz, Howlett, B. Haney, T. Haney, Johnson, Keifer, Morgan, Mosher, Morrison, McGrath, Nevius, Otero, Otis, Robinson, Rodgers, Snowhook, Sullivan, Schmidt, Shephard, Spangler, Spencer, Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burtis, Barry, Campau, J. English, Lindsey, Otis, Paul, Sawyer, McGrath, McKennon.
During the shower yesterday a citizen, carrying a very wet umbrella, entered a hotel to pay a call to some one up-stairs. After placing his umbrella where it might drain, he wrote upon a piece of paper and pinned to it the sentence:
N. B.—This umbrella belongs, to a man who strikes a 250 pound blow—back in fifteen minutes.
He went his way up-stairs, and after an absence of fifteen minutes returned to find his umbrella gone, and in its place a note reading:
P. S.—Umbrella taken by a man -who walks ten miles an hour—won’t be back at all.—Ex.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	47
The Minim Department.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
This is a separate Department in the Institution or Notre Dame, for Boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive Instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	$1.00	-
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa*
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.	•• '
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5:00 p.m.
4.26 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t, Cleveland.
Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Rwy.
The Popular Pa.ssen.ger Route of America !
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant I! I
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.	’
Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis, 40 W. Washington St.	.
J. M. Hall, Gen’l. Eastern Agt., Toledo, O.
F. E. Snow, Gen’l. Agt, Detroit, Mich.
B. F. Tichnor, Gen’l. Agt., Pass. Dept, 85 Clarke St, Chicago.
H. C. Townsend, Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agt, Saint Louis, Mo.
Robt. Andrews, Gen’l. Supt
Jno. C. Grautt, ad Vice-Prest, St Louis, Mo.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDINGS
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of tliree great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore aud Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students. The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C.S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.