November 12,1954 |
New filter cigarette!
brings flavor back to filter smoking!
FINER
FILTER
Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should!
FI^ER FLAVOR
KING SIZE TOO!
■ Winston is the new, easy-drawing filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy! Winston brings you real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, you get Winston’s finer filter . .. it’s different, it’s unique, it works so effectively! Winstons are king-size, too, for extra filtering action.
Try a pack of good-tasting. Winstons!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
WINSTON
... the easy-drawing filter cigarette!
’Scholastic
Vol. 96 NOVEMBER 12, 1954 No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ...................News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE   ......... Copy
Charles McKendrick .................
.........	    Assistant	Copy DAVE COHEN      Features KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER  ..  Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT _______Photo Editor PAUL FITZGERALD ________...........
—..... Photography	Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT ____Faculty Moderator
The ARROW points to
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national (advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo. John Boyle. Joe Connolly. John Cusack. George Dailey. Frank Dasek. Buck Harriss. Jen old Hilton, Jack Hough. Ed Joyce. David Kubal. James Lenox. Jim Loeffler. James McDonald. James Murphy, Arthur Price. Thomas Quinn. Dick Rust. Glenn Sheldon. Paul Under-kofier. Ray Walsh. Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus. Dave Davin. Bob J£aily. Kit Eckl. Gary Gates. John Glavin. Jim Jboethals. Jack Gueguen. Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher. Joe Madigan. Bob McDonald. John Mullin. Joe Norton. Bob Parnell. Bob Ruhl, and Mack Stewart.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
John O'Brien—page 5.
Mike Thompson—pages 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 31.
Paul Fitzgerald—pages 20, 21.
This one’s on you
PAR
We mean the collar . . . and if you’re a really smart clothesman, you’ll keep several Arrow spread-collar shirts on hand. Pick Arrow Par. left (S3.95). Pick a smart Arrow Bi-way spread, right (S5.00). Pick any of the smooth spread styles. But be sure you pick an Arrow. For immaculate tailoring, and the "custom look,” Arrow’s the shirt by jar. Prices begin at S3.95.
Note the slotted collar for day-long neatness.
Our Cover: The twelfth man on the Notre Dame team? He’s there no matter where the team plays—even if it is only by the airways. Jim Cahill, John Ryan, Fred Whitfield, and Tom May: portrait of one of the many Saturday afternoon booster groups tuned to the away-game radio hookup. Cover by O’Brien.
^4ovember 12, 1954
yl/l//(yi l^SIHRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR
LETTERS
Genuine
BwektHhePIen Silvered-Tip REFILLS in Red • Greea • Blee .
<	. Block
BLUE


u [«w

49* \ JEM
each
Exclusive M 1 new Paper-Mate Yy
Silwred-Tip Refill means smoother, faster writing! Just 10 seconds to ' insert...never blots...dries instantly. Get Paper-
Mate Refills wherever ; ' pens are sold.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Basement
Badin Hall
How ’Bout It?
Editor:
Two weeks ago I forgave the student body for the poor showing at the pep rally before the Navy game. There were a lot of reasons why some of them could not make it. Some of the boys had already left for the game. Those who were making the Student Trip had some packing to take care of, etc. But last week at the rally for the Penn game, I was ashamed when I walked into the Fieldhouse. One of the men who has been working for the University since Knute Rockne was head coach asked me where all the boys were. I was at a loss for words. There wasn’t any plausible explanation.
Walt Cabral apologized for the showing of the team, but I believe the student body owes the team even more of an apology. Eleven players out of the 39 who made the trip were there. This is almost 30 per cent. There were about 300 students, including the band; this is about six per cent.
The attitude seems to be, “I’ll go to the rallies before the home games, but there is no sense in going to a rally on Thursday when the game won’t be played until Saturday and then several hundred miles away.” I don’t know how this started but it could have disastrous results. The Thursday night rally is the last contact the team has with the student body before the game, since they leave early on Friday morning. The student body has the duty to show them that they are behind them, even though they can’t be at the game.
Our next trip is to Iowa. This could prove to be the most difficult of all the games this season. The team needs the support of the students. Let’s get out and prove that we are behind them all the way.
Phil Stump 132 Fisher
Wanted: Triple Cuts or Reasons Editor:
A great amount of very elaborate criticism has resulted from the latest University announcement of the change in the “cut” system, little of which was favorable. I, myself, cannot see the slightest acceptable reason for this change. When the Easter vacation policy was announced, I was all for it. While as you pointed out, we no longer have any time to relax between semesters, we did gain a longer Easter vacation. And the “No Triple Cut” addition served its purpose in preventing abuses of this boon.
But pray tell, who has gained what
from this last modification? The stu-;. dents, minus the Dean’s list, have lost j the chance to have a little extra time: at home. The knowledge that would,ifs or rather, WILL be gained in class amounts to nothing. There is only one£ thought around the campus at that time,| “So many hours until I get out of here.”; The classes don’t have a chance, evens: the instructors realize that.	£ .
And for this last reason, the Univer-|' -sity doesn’t gain anything either. We are^. allowed so many cuts per semester. Doess^j the time chosen for these cuts make anyj^<> difference? Under the old system, the;^ student forfeited several cuts by taking^ the triple cuts, thereby being “forced”g;1 to attend more classes than the course®-minimum. If the infusing of knowledge^ in greater quantities is the University’s^? aim, it has missed by a mile.
If you are looking for positive action,^; I would suggest that either have it^g aimed at the return of the “old system, or at least a clear, and acceptable, state-gl ment to be put forth by the UniversitjSg concerning the reason for this change.
One last remark. . . . This “failure^ on account of absences” that is the result^® of too many cuts has a very sour noteW| about it. If a student can take his|fc absences and still maintain a passing^^ average, I believe he deserves to get higfe passing grade, not the “888” found noi^^ and then. . . . Earl H. Benser
355 Dillon
Editor’s Note: The University has leased a statement on the policy in tion. It appears on page 10.	Bia
Ex Libris
Editor:
There is a new deal' at the library— S an attempt to reach efficiency plus. I H hit a snag a week ago in my effort; g to withdraw four books for home study. S I had to fill out four withdrawal slips, B each demanding elaborate detail as g found in the card catalog. I had to g write my name and address in full on g each slip. And then—all four books B were out (or so I was told).	J
The ND student is confronted on en- g trance with the card catalog (very duU|^B reading), but nary a book in sight. Ataa the South Bend library more than^B 5,000 books are on open shelves, among which you may browse and choose up^a to half a dozen to take home—never eB a slip to fill out.	S
Why not accommodate the students B and be not over-solicitous to erect an n iron curtain between us and our li- H brary shelves.	John O’Connor S
Dillon Hall B The Scholasti^M
the week
by John O'Brien
On Restaurants
Top of the WEEK.-
Senior Trip to Iowa next WEEK . . .
Back to Work
The Scholastic and its most widely read column, the WEEK are back on the newsstands again, after a WEEK’S respite for the purpose of enjoying one of the greatest student trips in history. Yes, it’s back in the saddle again, with only memories and approaching bankruptcy as souvenirs of that last lost weekend.
Shown here is a picture we snapped of one of Washington’s finest as he escorted us on one of our many tours about the Capital, which in no small way added to the enjoyment of the sights. Note the happy smile on his face, and the one missing cartridge in his belt.
While the WEEK is on the topic of restaurants, I’d like to report that all is not as bad as it might seem to regular readers of this column. For example, Bonat’s, “A little bit of Paris three blocks from the White House” offers a charming backdrop for consuming filets. And at the Blue Room of the Shoreham ^lotel, we were lulled during dinner by a delightful harp quartet. And the service was very excellent ... of course we left some very healthy tips, which incidentally is a swell way to get service. So keep faith men, restaurants are here to stay.
A Costly Game
The WEEK certainly hopes that Dick Szymanski is speedily recovering from his injury in the Pennsylvania game, wbick had his spleen removed following the injury, and we hope that it won't keep him down too long. It’s tough to have a guy like Szymo out of there, even for a little while.
Indiana’s Weather
Did you notice the beeyooteeful weather we had last weekend to go with oui- . . . away game? After the mud and mire of the MSC game, and . the popl-like field for the Navy battle ^(replete with icy blasts) the troops get glorious sunshine for the Penn game . . . while we listen to the radio in the hall.
The World Front .
If anything drastic suddenly happens with Russia, you can blame it on a little group which visited the Russian Embassy while in Washington. Even though we were denied a formal reception, I’d like to tell Malenkov that we’re sorry we bothered his boys. On ap-^November 12, 1954
‘Finest’ and Trusty Steed
proaching the dark, grey building, we noticed but one light on, and that on the third floor. As we knocked at the door, a little peep-hole opened up, and an ugly face scowled through.
“Come back tomorrow at nine,” was the reply we received. Then another little window opened up, and another face showed through. This was enough. We could feel a thousand eyes peering at us through the partially opened shutters. We hurriedly left. Which leads us to one conclusion: Sightseeing is bush at the Russian Embassy.
In Reply
To colleague Jim O’Shea, regarding his comments on “That handsome picture:” Truly, Jim, your picture is very handsome, as a matter of fact it flatters you. Mine is equally handsome, but it doesn’t flatter me a bit.
(touche, Ohche)
Sandspurs . . .
To the St. Mary’s teacher who encouraged her students to go on the Student Trip, then popped a test first period Tuesday morning.
Flub of the WEEK . . .
The ND man who dated a friend of the family from Trinity College in Washington. Upon bidding a fond farewell later in the evening, he expressed his regrets that he would be leaving early the next morning for South Bend. The next night, as he was calling for another Trinity queen, guess ivho appeared on the scene!
A Man’s Drink
Talk about tough legislation! These laws are really getting rugged ... a guy I know went into a local establishment, asked for a bottle of Seven-Up, and had to show his ID card to get it! I’ll have to try some of that stuff. . . . I know a grocery store where I can get it, no questions asked. (Name furnished on request.)
A Star is Born. . . dead
If A Star is Bom is still playing downtown when you read this, and you have not yet had the opportunity to see it, be sure and miss it. But if you should get a pass to see it, here are some suggestions. Take a box lunch along with you, take plenty of No-Doz, and then stay in the lobby and read a magazine. Directed by one of Judy G’s husbands, Sid Luft, it is only slightly shorter than Gone With the Wind, and with no intermissions to stretch your legs. She must sing 40 songs, and if you can sit through that, you deserve a medal for sure.
The Fashion Trend
Been noticing a lot of hats around the campus lately, and it leads me to believe that the trend has definitely caught on. I can remember two or three years ago when only a very few students balked the “bare-headed majority” and had the courage to wear hats on other than blizzard days. Now the lads with lids are increasing in number, and soon they might even become a majority. But there are still some who like to feel the rain and snow tapping gently on theii' pates, so let them have their thrill, shortlived though it may be. Remember the ads that used to run in the SCHOLASTIC saying, “It’s healthy to wear a hat”? Evidently they gave up on the college men, but maybe they surrendered at the wrong time. They were just nearing victory, and they didn’t know it.
Bottom of the WEEK:
. . . Dry state.
5
cslendst
NOVEMBER 12
FIELDHOUSE (7:30 p.m.)—Irish boosters let off steam at the preTarheel tussle pep rally. Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and “Moose” Krause, athletic director, will be the speakers. Let’s all follow the band!
STUDENT CENTER. (9 to 1)—The Greek Gods of O’Shaughnessy will turn the Center into “Olympia”—their home—tonight as Hal McIntyre provides the melodies for the 1954 Arts and Letters Ball.
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE—The annual Sophomore Cotillion will provide a change of pace from 8 to 11:30 for the relatively few Dixie flyers who have made the more favorable impressions on the sedate second-year women. Melodies by Don Gels, of course.
SOUTH BEND COUNTRY CLUB—The Lawmen—fresh from Moot Court—will dine and dance their ladies from 7:30 to 1—to the music of Bobby Brown’s Spotlighters.
AVON (through Thursday)—Walt Disney brings the vast expanse of the Vanishing Prairie before your eyes in a true life adventure of the plains—the animal pattern of flight and pursuit, the struggle for survival and the miracle of rebirth. Well worth the time.
COLFAX (through Nov. 17)—Black Widow—“Real life drama—blackmail, murder, suspense.” Gene Tierney and Van Heflin fill in the leads. This will get toned down on the billboards.
GRANADA (through Nov. 20)—Successful drama, 1937, plus song and dance, 1954, equals A Star Is Born. Judy Garland makes a magnificent • comeback and a sound bid for top actress Oscar honors. James Mason, plays her husband, and gets laudatory comment for his part. Don’t miss this three hour hit.
NOVEMBER 13
ND STADIUM (1 p.m.)—The Fighting Irish tangle with the North Carolina Tarheels as Brennan’s lads try to jump a notch in the national polls.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:25 p.m.)—Barbara Stanwyck and George Sanders play Witness to Murder.
NAVY DRILL HALL (8:30 to 11:30)—“Carolina Moon” will beam down on second night AB Ballers and others of the troops at the usual Victory Dance.
NOVEMBER 14
PALACE (through Nov. 19)—Four Guns to the Border, a “revenge” thriller in Technicolor. Dragon’s Gold doesn’t add much. .
NOVEMBER 15
FIELDHOUSE (8 to 10 p.m.)—The Doodle Town Fifers themselves— Sauter and Finegan present a concert in jazz, man. Tickets will be available at the door.
NOVEMBER 17
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The University Theatre christens its new year with the popular and proven melodrama Detective Story. The Theatre’s new director, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, should have a hit. The show will run through Nov. 20.
AVON (through Thanksgiving)—Suddenly. Frank Sinatra proves his mettle as last year’s best supporting actor doing a turnabout as a killer. The picture has little otherwise.
STATE (through Nov. 18)—Charles Bickford, Jennifer Jones, Vincent Price and Lee Cobb are brought back with the memorable Song of Bernadette. The two and a half hour film wall run forever.
NOVEMBER 18
COLFAX—Last Time I Saw Paris. Van Johnson returns to reminisce at the scene of his first meeting with Liz Taylor in a V-E Day celebration in Paris after their mad courtship and marriage is capped with tragedy. A very good story.
by AL CAPP
STOP, ANYFACEJT-IFYOU SAW MEIN HALF, I'LL STARVE TO DEATH.1/ ONE CAN'T LIVE ON MY SALARY, MUCH LESS
TWO."
Copr. 1954 by United Feature Syndicate,
AMAiyy-NOW, YOU'LL P’ ONLY GIVE ME HAIFAS MUCH TROUBLE."
■ is
YOU MEAN TWICE AS MUCH// STICK’EM
RIGHT.1?
WUDKOT.
mut-oil UN* nKKj
WHEN
THEY
TOMORROW.
GOING TO APPLY
WILDROOT CREAM-
YrYOU'RE NOT GOING TO SAW ME IN HALF, ARE YOU, FOSDICKS? -ONLY AN INHUMAN BEAST WOULD’DO THAT/
OIL, CHARLIE—SO
YOUR HAIR WILL
LOOK NEAT, BUT NOT-LfeHf-GREASY/*
WEARE. MERELY-
HANG YOU,
“0w'ii«r«4a
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL! KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUTNOT U6H?~ GREASY. NONALCOHOLIC. CONTAINS LANOLIN. RELIEVES DRYNESS. REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFFlr
6
The Scholastic
Edifot's Page I
Another First: American Education Week Celebrated Here	j
I
The 1954 Festival of the Arts Week winds up tomorrow with the Notre Dame-North Carolina football game. This is the second year the	j
Festival was held. Monday it began; the theme, “The Glory That Was	|
Greece.” Monday was also the beginning of another type of program	I
here for the first time. This, American Education Week; its theme,	I
“Good Schools Are Your Responsibility.”	.	- j
The two have operated in conjunction this year. The people of this	I
area were welcomed to the display of Greek works in the Art Gallery, the	i
lectures and dramatic presentations as part of American Education Week.	I
In addition, the various colleges held open house for the visitors. Behind	I
this cooperative program lay the desire to give some greater knowledge of	<
Notre Dame and what it can do. The aim of AEW was undoubtedly	j
achieved here. That aim: to create interest in. understandings of. and	।
support for the school.	J
The University intends to make American Education Week, which was	i
begun in 1921, an annual observance here. Of course, there is much that	|
can never become evident to the random visitor—the daily life, work and	;
achievements of students, faculty and administration; the projects that are	|
built up in a year’s time, and the accomplishments of years past. This	I
would be impossible. But some little insight may be gained through such	j
a program as has been presented this year.	|
But the Festival week isn’t over yet. Tonight several hundred couples | will dance at the Arts and Letters Ball in the Student Center. To them, i we wish an enjoyable time tonight and tomorrow also.	‘
Congratulations to all who have made this week a success.	j
O	i
An Explanation Is Given
A University announcement of Oct. 8 eliminating triple cuts at Christmas as well as Easter, referred to in an editorial in the Oct. 15 issue, has been the subject of much discussion on campus. This discussion and the editorial resulted from consideration of the existing practical use of the cut system. A statement covering the reasons for the elimination appears oh page 10. We feel much of the acrimonious discussion would not have occurred if the statement had been made at the time of the announcement, although .it must be admitted that the administration assumed that the students were familiar with the basic reasons for the existence of the cut system and therefore could readily understand why the new ruling was put into effect. ’
The Main Bout: Central Standard vs. Eastern Standard
There’s quite a furor raging in South Bend these days. It seems there is a movement toward adoption of Eastern Standard Time. Fort Wayne	j
is another city in the Central Time Zone that wants to be out of step.	j
Though it has been decided not to start the new time—if adopted—• until after the Southern California game here Nov. 27, the change would j prove rather troublesome for the troops.	j
Some of the difficulties that would arise are concerned with transportation schedules; with South Bend on Eastern Time in the Central Time Zone, trains, planes and buses would arrive and depart an hour later than j their schedule calls for (besides traveling, this would affect mail service). | Someone is bound to get in late from Chicago on the South Shore. And | think of going to class at 8:30 a.m. when it’s really only 7:30.	|
Besides the many adjustments that the city would probably have to	j
make, there are undoubtedly a few that might be shifted here, like class	।
hours maybe. Who knows exactly what and how many problems would	!
arise.	I
The whole issue is somewhat confusing to follow, so it’s a good thing	j
that reports show the motion unlikely to pass. Let’s just sit back and	<
watch the battle for and against snafu.	j
Wonder if Mishawaka would follow South Bend if ... ?
7
^November 12, 1954
Your Name
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
LORD WEST
The first
the authentic University model tuxedo... now in brand new
JET
BLACK
lightweight year-round worsted
name in quality formal*
• fur name of nearest retailer and free formal dress chart. write—
LORD WEST

tailored by West Mill 01 West 21 St., New York 11, N.
natural shoulders.
narrow shawl lapel, flap pockets, center vent, non-pleated
trousers
A Favorite with College Men!
All white brushed leather in a smart plain toe blucher oxford. Thick red rubber sole and heel. Ideal for campus and plain or fancy loafing.
Your Address
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend
The Scholastic 9
scholastic
X	<	"""""""—i^—
Volume 96, Number 6	Notre Dome, Indiana	November 12, 1954
•’OLYMPIA’ ENHANCES EVENING’S AB BALL
Dance Tops Tribute To Immortal Greeks
“Olympia,” the high point of the week-long Festival of the Arts, will £>e presented tonight when 500 AB students and their dates dance to the music of Hal McIntyre’s orchestra at the annual Arts and Letters Ball in the LaFortune Student Center from 9 until 1.
Climaxing the evening will be the crowning of Miss Virginia Warnke, the date of dance chairman Jim O’Shea, as queen of the Ball. Miss Warnke, a 20-year-old dark-haired Mary Manse College junior, will wear the rhinestone ^tiara given to her by O’Shea and JeiTy ^Hughes, AB senator, proclaiming her reign over the week-end’s activities. Miss Warnke, whose home town is Toledo, Ohio, is an English major at Mary iManse where she also serves as an officer of her class.
Continuing to follow the Greek theme of the Festival of the Arts, the Ball will center around ancient Greece and “Olympia—home of the Greek Gods.” ^Hellenic scenes will dot the walls while ^statues of mythical deities surround the dance floor. Tunic dressed waiters, will add atmosphere to the affair. Decoration chairman is Bill Byrne.
The usual car permissions will begin at 12 noon Friday and continue through 12 noon Saturday. Residence • permissions for 2 a. m. have been granted.
Climaxing “Greece the Undying" _ The big week-end will continue Sat-Wurday morning with a box lunch at 11:30 in the student lounge of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Under Lunch Chairman George Vosmik, crews will serve dance-goers a chicken lunch.
Following the lunch, AB men and their dates will take in the Notre Dame-North Carolina game in the Stadium. Tickets to accommodate all guests were placed on reserve.
To continue the festive week-end, the AB’s will be able to attend a gigan
November 12, 1954
tic Victory Dance in the Drill Hall with Don Gels and orchestra playing.
The week-end will end Sunday morning when Arts and Letters students attend the 9:00 a. m. Mass in Sacred
VIRGINIA WARNKE
Goddess for “Olympia”
Heart Church. Following the Mass will be the Communion breakfast in the Gold Room of the LaSalle Hotel at 10:30. Breakfast Chairman Frank Lol-li has arranged for Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., to speak. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will also speak.
The second annual Festival of the Ai-ts which started last Monday will continue through Saturday. A new attendance record is in the process of toppling last year’s 18,000, said festival officials.
General chairman of the festival, Don Yeckel, and Father Sheedy, planned and organized the 1954 festival. Others helping in this operation were Tom Caplet, Blue Circle coordinator, Tom Wageman, publicity, and Charles Cush-wa, audio-visual effects.
The opening lecture, held last Monday
in the Student Center, was given by Dr. Rhys Carpenter, and was titled “Greece, the Undying.” Carpenter’s lecture served as a background for the other events that followed. Continuing lectures throughout the week and a series of dramatic readings by English actress Margaret Mowei- along with the performance of Christoph von Gluck’s opera, Orpheus, rounded out the major portions of the festival.
Thousands already have viewed the photo-murals and other authentic Greek works which have been on display in the O’Shaughnessy galleries.
Washington Hall Movies May Be Discontinued!
Washington Hall moviegoers will be put to the most rigid test they’ve ever faced tomorrow at the afternoon and evening features as Senate and Administration officials seek to determine if student conduct during the show merits continuance of the weekly movies.
Attention of the Student Senate and the Administration has been called to the “unbecoming and disgraceful” conduct of students attending the weekly flickers at Washington Hall. Cat calls, unappropriate comments and general rowdy behavior of the students has brought the issue of continuing or discontinuing the movies to a point requiring immediate decision.
Conduct at tomorrow’s features in the afternoon and evening will go before the careful scrutiny of Senate leaders and Administration heads. If student behavior doesn’t meet with standards of behavior deemed desirable, the movies will definitely be discontinued. Saturday’s judgment will be final.
“We know such behavior is due to just a few, but it now jeopardizes the welfare of all who attend Washington Hall movies,” replied Joe Daley, Student Senate president, in regard to the matter. Tomorrow’s feature will be Witness to Murder.
9
Father Moore Issues Statement Explaining Elimination of Triple Cuts at Christmastime
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs has issued a statement concerning the University’s regulations regarding class absences before and after the Christmas vacation.
Fr. Moore’s statement reads: “It is certainly desirable that college students assume ‘full responsibility for attendance at classes and for mastering the knowledge required to pass their courses and to reach successfully their educational objective of the bachelor’s degree. But the general experience of American educators is that college students have not been able nor willing to take on this responsibility, and almost every college has compulsory class attendance.
Principles of System Outlined
“On the other hand, there are times when a student for personal reasons or through negligence may miss a class for which an excused absence cannot be given. It was to provide for such absences, without loss of credit in a course, that the limited cut system was introduced at Notre Dame and elsewhere.
“The purpose behind the cut system was not to confer a right upon the students to a number of cuts which they could take at their discretion. Above all, it was not intended that students should prolong regular vacations by leaving the University before the vacation officially began or by returning after it officially ended.
“Such interpretation of the cut system is false and an abuse of its real purpose, and, hence, the University may further limit the cut system when such abuse is judged to be inimical to the common good of the University and the student body.
“This explains why the Academic Administration has decided to outlaw all cuts, except those permitted under Academic Regulations 39 and 40, on the last two days prior to or on the first two days after the officially scheduled vacation periods at Christmas and at Easter in the present school year.
“Also excepted are cuts by students on the Dean’s Honor List as explained on Page 37 of the current Student Manual. This exception of honor students from the cut system is Notre Dame’s experiment in throwing on the students full responsibility for their college education.
“It is further called to the attention of the student body that the school year at Notre Dame began a week later this
year than in previous years. This makes it imperative that classes be taught on all school days within the shortened year and that students be in attendance at the classes.”
Morrow Band Billed For Commerce Ball
Buddy Morrow and his orchestra will provide the music for the “business men” and their dates at the annual Commerce Ball to be held in the Student Center Nov. 26, from 9 to 1.
The week-end will get underway with the pep rally at the Fieldhouse Friday evening, after which the couples
BUDDY MORROW
Maestro for “Monte Carlo”
will attend the semi-formal dance at the Center, which will be decorated in the theme of “An Evening at Monte Carlo.”
The Notre Dame vs. Southern California football game will highlight Saturday afternoon’s activities, with the Victory Dance and parties filling in Saturday evening. Arrangements are being made by John Sennett for a Communion breakfast Sunday morning to close the week-end festivities for the
commerce men.
The “Big Beat” of Mr. Morrow, his trombone, and his orchestra will furnish the music for dancing, with song hits like “Night Train,” “I Don’t Know,” and “One Mint Julep.”
Morrow has played with Paul Whiteman, the late Eddie Duchin, Artie Shaw, and Tommy Dorsey prior to a
three-year hitch in the Navy during World War II. He then played a^; feature trombonist with Jimmy Dorset,' before starting his own orchestra in J ‘ 1946. This venture met with little sue-cess, however.	;
Not until 1950, when he reorganized i his orchestra and signed with RCA Victor, did he begin to meet with popu- # larity. Buddy endeavors to play “the ' type of music that the public wants i to hear.”
The faculty of the College of Con^ merce will act as chaperones for th^
Ball. Tickets for the annual dance have been on sale for the past week in the Commerce Building, and may still be
£
obtained from the dance chairman, Crean, in 142 Alumni Hall.
Lee

YCS Instructs Frosh In Pre-Election Forum
Pre-election forums were held in
,5
the Si
various freshman study lounges last gg-night by the YCS, sponsor of the meetings. The purpose of the forums was to give freshmen a general idea of the Student Senate, its structure, purposes, and functions.	if
Freshmen in the YCS originated the
plan, the first of its kind at the University.
Four main speakers, one for each hall, gave the major discourses of the eve ning. The student leaders who spoke were Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate; John O’Meara, chairman of the Blue Circle; Dick Burke, president of the Senior Class and vice-president of the Senate; and Tom Crehan, secretary of the Senate.
The talks dealt with the mechanics of the election itself. Topics included the duties of hall senator, president, and council and class officers, along wit their necessary qualifications. In addition they discussed the Senate and its services to the University.
Four Blue Circle men and four sophomore senators who were in politics last year also handled parts of the discussion. These men discussed the mechanics of campaigning and allied topics. The sophomores, being in the political race only last year, were able to divulge important current information on freshman election problems.
Nominations for hall and class officers opened last Tuesday and will continue through next Tuesday. The elections will then be held on Nov. 23.
Two nights before the elections the freshman YCS members will sponsor “meet your candidates” smokers. This will allow the candidates an adequate chance to outline their platforms. However, no final plans have been made for these events.
10
The Scholasti
WASHINGTON HALL STAGE ALIVE IN PRE-OPENING REHEARSALS
Weeks and weeks of practice . . . four nights of spotlight
'Detective Story' to Open Run Wednesday; Sadistic Cop Tale First 1954 Performance
The 1954 season of the University ^Theatre will open on Wednesday night with the presentation of Detective Story, a play taken from the Broadway hit of the same name by Sidney Kingsley. The drama will run through Saturday with curtain time each night set for 8:30.
Tickets for each of the four nights are available at the Washington Hall box office, which will be open daily ^from 2 to 5 p. m. and from 7 to 9 "p. m. All seats are reserved.
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., new director of the University Theatre and director of the play, commented that the board selected Detective Story because of its ease of production. Despite the bulk of a cast of 34, the show requires only one set—the police lieutenant’s office. Costumes for the play are contemporary. Stage, business crews, and ushers for the performance have ^been recruited from the newly-formed "Theatre Workshop.
Ticket prices for the perfonnances are as follows: students, orchestra, $.75, and balcony, $.50. For the faculty and staff, orchestra, $1.00, and balcony, $.75.
Detective Story, a smash hit on Broadway for over a year and also a .successful road show, centers around I the melodramatic action in a New York police department squad room.
Out of the hubbub and vice of the
B November 12, 1954
station emerges the tragic case of a young man who has robbed his employer. Despite the efforts of his girl friend and the forgiveness of his employer, the case is turned over to a fiendish detective named McLoud, who has a craze for sadistic punishment of all law offenders.
James F. O’Donoghue, a Korean veteran and freshman from Lindenhurst, Long Island, will take the role of McLoud. Gayle Baumer, a St. Mary’s College junior from New Orleans, will play opposite O’Donoghue. Miss Baumer has participated in theatrical presentations at the University before.
Ann Wainwright, another St. Mary’s student will play the role of Susan. Reginald Bain, a sophomore will take the part of Arthur. Catherine Caffinan from St. Mary’s will act the part of the shoplifter. James Luotto and Joseph Kelly will take the part of burglars. Gene Gorski and Dick Robinson have been chosen to play the juvenile leads. Hildegarde Vargyas plays the comic role of Miss Hatch.
The technical phases of the play are being handled by Mr. Fred Syburg. John Noland is stage manager, assisted by Mary Ann Miller. John Harrington is taking care of the stage carpentry. Ambrose Seitz is arranging the lighting and Patrick Casey is acting as property manager.
ND Debaters Do Well In Three-State Tour
The Notre Dame forensic squad traveled through Illinois, Wisconsin, and Indiana during the past three weeks, winning debate and discussion contests, putting on exhibitions, and appearing on a television program.
On Oct. 28 and 29, the Irish debaters placed five men in the top ten at a discussion tournament held at Butler University. In doing so, ND had the distinction of being the only college of the nine represented to place more than one man in the top ten. Freshman Jerry Brady was second, Junior Dick Schiller was fourth, Sophomore Pat Curran and Senior Chuck Doherty were tied for sixth, while Sophomore Al Riley came in tenth.
At the Tau Kappa Alpha sponsored event, Doherty, president of the Notre Dame Debate team, was elected regional representative to the national conference to be held in the spring.
Schiller, coach of the freshman debaters, was elected president of the eight-state midwest region for the 195556 year. Notre Dame and Wabash gave demonstration debates on Thursday, Oct. 28, for the benefit of the other participants in the tourney, with Doherty and Schiller representing the University.
Irish Take Three
On Thursday, Nov. 4, six men from Coach Leonard Sommers’ squad traveled to Chicago where they defeated Chicago University, Loyola, and Mundelein. Representing the victorious Irish were Junior Joe Scheibel, Sophomores Dick Allen and Jerry Garvey, and Freshmen Jack Martzell, Paul Coffey, and Jay Harris. The judges, who come from each of the home schools, gave ND all three contests.
Doherty and Riley represented ND in an exhibition debate with Marquette University at Milwaukee yesterday and today. They appeared in a one-and-a-half hour TV show marking the opening of Milwaukee’s new station, WMIL-TV.
Next weekend, Nov. 19 and 20, eight Irish debaters will be engaged in the Bradley invitational tournament which will see forty schools represented by about 80 teams. The tourney includes debates, discussions, oratory, extemporaneous speaking and after-dinner speaking, with Notre Dame being represented in each event. Each of ND’s eight men will take part in at least three of the events with some participating in more.
11
Kamal Hossain, a Notre Dame senior from Pakistan, termed the United States-Pakistan military assistance program the wrong approach to combating Communism in Asia in a paper, “Dulles, Diplomacy, and Balance of Power.” He delivered the paper before the International Relations Club Nov. 4.
“Any ultimate plan for peace must be based not on alliance between the United States and individual Asian nations, but on greater cooperation and unity among the Asian nations themselves,” Hossain explained.
The paper was the second study of the relations of the United 'States with the countries of Southeast Asia presented before the International Relations Club by Hossain. In the two papers, he analyzes the problems of modern Asia, criticizes present foreign policy, and outlines a policy for combating Communism in Asia.
A member of the executive commit-
^Military
the Stest Weapon
By PETER STURTEVANT
tee of the Pakistan Students’ Association in America, Hossain was born in Calcutta, India, and studied with the Jesuits at St. Xavier’s in Calcutta. In 1950 he moved to Dacca in newly-formed East Pakistan where he studied at St. Gregory’s High School and College run by the Holy Cross Fathers.
He came to the United States in the fall of 1953 to study economics at Notre Dame. In addition to his membership in the International Relations Club, Hossain is serving on the International Students’ Commission of the NS A and is a varsity debater. He will receive his AB degree in January.
According to Hossain, an understanding of the forces which have emerged in Asia in the past two decades is essential to an understanding of Asian problems. He enumerates these fundamental forces as: “first, the growth of nationalism with its corollary of vigorous anti-colonialism; second, a psy-
KAMAL HOSSAIN
Asian unity . . .
I
chological fear of the Western powers because of their unpleasant association ■with colonialism in the past; and third, I a strong desire for self development.” j
Hossain attributes the successes of Communism to its ability to understand® and exploit these forces. Thus Russia I attempts to identify itself with the I forces of nationalism—the Viet Minh I in Indo-China, for example—while iden- I tifying the cause of the West with | hated colonialism. In addition, Commu- | nism exploits the desire for self devel- ! opment by holding up the ideal of the Marxian Utopia in contrast to the form of capitalism familiar to the Asian i people, exploitive capitalism.	j
“To overcome one of Communism’s® strongest rallying calls,” Hossain said, I “capitalism must be shown to be ef- I ficient enough to solve Asia’s economic ! problems. Therefore Communism can- I not be fought with guns alone. The most potent weapon against Commu- I nism is raising the standard of living and bettering the condition of the masses."
E
After analyzing present United States^! foreign policy, Hossain concludes that^g it is an attempt to maintain the bal- I ance of power between the two power- I ful world forces struggling to influence | men to Communism or democracy. “The I United States must more strongly asso- I ciate itself with the aspirations of the | Asian people, rather than attempting I to bring Asia to Western ideas,” he said. I
As an alternative to the balance of I power approach which tends to create two hostile armed camps, Hossain ad-^ vocates “greater independence among the component powers of a bloc so that they could create smaller groups more closely tied together, which would be more representative.”
Applying this policy to southeast Asia, Hossain favors United States support of the Colombo plan under which
the nations of Southeast Asia, moti-
(Continued on Page 32)
The Scholastic Q
12
Israeli Students Glimpse U. S. Collegiate Life * In Month-Long Tour of University Campuses
By DICK RUST
“Do you have speed boat races on the Notre Dame lakes?” asked one of the four Israeli students who visited the campus last weekend. This question, the grave disappointment of learning _ that the football team was not playing in the home stadium that weekend, and many other experiences added to their visit to Notre Dame that was part of a tour aimed at creating good will between American and Israeli students.
The tour, sponsored by the Israel Student’s Organization in the United States, began Nov. 1 and is to last until Dec. 15. With the support of the United States National Student Association, the trip is to center around a number of metropolitan areas in which several colleges and universities are located.
The purpose of the tour is to obsei-ve universities typical of various modes of United States student life, and they chose Notre Dame as characteristic of a Catholic men’s college. They hope, also, to provide information on life in Israel and at the same time learn about American life.
The Israeli contingent, consisting of a three men and one girl, was met at the South Bend airport last Friday afternoon and initiated their tour here with the Harlem Globetrotters basketball game which they enjoyed a great deal.
Saturday morning the group engaged in a tape-recorded interview on campus, conducted by Walt Clemens, chairman of the NS A at Notre Dame. The International Commission was the tour’s official host on campus. The recording a was a transcribed program which was broadcast by WNDU Sunday afternoon, and this same transcription will be sent to Europe to be broadcast over the “Voice of America” to countries behind the Iron Curtain.
During the recording the students gave information on the Israel State along with some Israeli music. They related the history of the founding of the Israeli state, which was established in 1948, and gave the general economic and social problems that immigration into their country has caused since the founding of the state.
Didia Menusy, one of the three men in the group, gave a description of the community life on the collective farms in Israel. Menusy himself was born on one of these farms. He has been in the United States only six weeks and is presently doing graduate work at City College in New York. Still in his early 20’s, he has already written four books
based on philosophy and the new liturgy of the Hebrew religion. One of his books has been translated into the English language.
The student life of the Israeli was recounted by Jacob Saphir. He has been living in the United States for three years, working for his Ph.D. in political science at Columbia University. Saphir told of three universities in Israel being organized in one large federation, which participates in the same International Student Conference that the United States NS A helped to establish.
Most of the music on the recorded interview was supplied by Miss Rachel Hadas, the only girl in the Israeli contingent. She sang some Jewish folk songs while keeping rhythm on an Arab drum. During one of her melodies she was accompanied by Menusy, who played a shepherd’s flute. Miss Hadas came to America six weeks ago to continue her studies in music, dancing, and singing at the school of Martha Graham, the founder of the modern dance.
Mordecai Kreinin, the fourth in the Israeli group, was asked his impression of the United States. He marveled at the extremely large, physical size of this country. His impression of the people was that they are “nice on the whole,” and he cited as an example the aid given by the American people to the flood victims in the Netherlands. Kreinin has been in this country for three years
ISRAELI GRAD STUDENTS VISIT ND “Student attitudes the same . .
and will soon get his Ph.D. in economics at the University of Michigan.
All four of the students are in their early 20’s and had previously fought in the Israeli underground before that country became independent in 1948.
Menusy also told of the plight of the Israeli student at home. He said that from the time they were young children they had ingrained into their culture to live for nothing but the independence of their country. When they finally gained independence in 1948 the young people really had nothing more to live for, and as an escape from this sudden dilemma they entered the universities in Israel.
The facilities at the colleges proved to be extremely inadequate. For instance, the students would often have to rent a room which was from two to four hours walk from the university. Upon arriving at school they might hear one lecture, after which they would go off to find some work near the college for a few hours, then return for another lecture later in the day. After school there was always the long trudge back to their rooms. He stated that they completely lacked facilities for graduate work, and had to go abroad to obtain it.
Following their transcribed interview, the toui- embarked on a visit to St. Mary’s College, where they met with the faculty and students and sang some Jewish melodies for them. In the evening they completed the day by looking in on the Victory dance in the Drill Hall.
Sunday morning the four students culminated their tour around the campus, conducted by Senior Dave Cohen, after which they departed.
I
i i
i
November 12, 1954
13
Justice William Douglas Urges Law Students To Include Public Service as Part of Career
WOl) Mike Chattel
Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court William 0. Douglas in an address before students and faculty members of the Law School, Oct. 28, declared that “an almost complete lack of understanding between East and West” is hindering the advance of peace in the world today.
Mr. Justice Douglas remarked that, “The problems ahead of us are staggering in many, many ways. In international fields there is an absence of understanding and the gulf of cooperation between us is tremendous and getting wider.”
Giving examples of how the United States and England have resolved their difficulties he said, “The necessity for bridges of understanding in Asia is a thousandfold. We must reach the Asians, the colored races, and the world of Islam. Out of the many religions, races, and tongues, one people is made.”
Communists Promote Understanding
Noting that we are taking steps in the right direction by sending teachers abroad and accepting Asians for teaching as well as 35,000 foreign students, Douglas stated, “The communist press has long advocated world government. They have done what we should have done years ago, the single, most important thing, improving understanding between different peoples.”
Douglas asserted that the tremendous tax load imposed in recent years makes it extremely difficult for lawyers and other professional persons to set aside a period of their lives for public service.
Douglas warned that, “Government ■” must not fall into the hands of ad-" venturers or those who have inherited wealth. Although it is hard for you to carve some years of your careers for public life after you finish school, it’s something you must do. You are the leaders and the custodians. When you get frightened, the whole nation becomes frightened.”
Richness of Precedent
In concluding Douglas said, “This country has due process of law. It is rich in its history. It is rich in its precedence . . . keep it alive in the U. S. Have tolerance at home and we’re going to be able to manage this, I mean you are going to be able to manage this.”
Dean Joseph O’Meara, dean of the College of Law, introduced Justice Douglas. The lecture was sponsored by the Law School in cooperation with the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
Earlier in the day Justice Douglas was guest at the Morris Inn, where Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, welcomed him to Notre Dame. Other guests were: Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Judge Edwin Parkinson, federal judge of the district court; Joseph O’Meara, dean of the Law School, and members of the law faculty.
Colonel Letzelter Appointed Head of Campus Army Unit
Col. C. J. Letzelter has been appointed the new Professor of Military Science and Tactics of the Anny ROTC, the administration announced recently. Letzelter is a regular army officer and a graduate of West Point. Until 1942 he was an assistant football coach at West Point.
At the outbreak of World War II he was assigned to the 286th Infantry Regiment of the 70th Division for stateside duty. In 1943 he took command of the 1st Battalion of the 8th Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division. The battalion landed in Normandy and fought in the Central France and Rhineland campaigns.
After the war Col. Letzelter was sent to the Command General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. From there he was sent back to Germany where he served with the headquarters of the European Command. In July, 1954 he received his appointment for a three-year tour of duty at Notre Dame.
Col. Letzelter, his wife, and three children now reside in South Bend.
AROTC Publishes 'Guidon'; Paper Carries News, Jokes
Nov. 1 marked the publication date for a new Army ROTC publication, the Guidon. The Guidon carries news of all Army ROTC activities and is to be published once each month.
The paper is mimeographed and carries news articles on activities, feature articles on the Army officers serving at Notre Dame, cartoons, a joke column and a column which carries answers to questions about the Army ROTC sent in by cadets.
Editor-in-chief of the paper is William Tice, and Jerrold Hilton is the associate editor. Mickey Melvin is the cartoonist.
Recently the contemporary American sociological scene has been occupied

by a very strange creature labeled “animalibus diskjockianus” by the social scientists. This interesting crea- ? ture is found in his natural habitat ft located in the dense undergrowth of^ f your radio dial.	g:
However, WNDU offers up a sordid S assortment of disk jockies who they || feel will meet with somewhat of a re- ® action from their campus audience. If H experience is any key to the effect that they -will have, then it’s a half-safe K wager that the reaction that they in- K cur isn’t a sickening one.	E
The nucleus of the “chatter and plat-, E ter” (a well-worn phrase that should^® be retreaded) crew for the local nut- K work consists of four stalwarts who K have shows that cover the weekly gam- H bit from Monday through Friday. g
The first of this fabulous foursome ® is Mike McCormick who is the pro- 0 prietor of the very swank and exclu- || sive 12:30 Club. The membership of S this society is limited to those who g spend their time digesting the very g finest in campus cuisine during the J| 12:30 to 1:30 period.
For those who prefer the uncon- g ventional in radio entertainment, there’s g The Coffey Break from 2:30 to 3:30. E The Impresario of this time slot is one B Michelangelo Coffey. He features the g old songs along with some commentary || that quite often rivals that of embryo g Steve Allen. Likewise, he often refrains g from comment for periods of a half 8 hour in order to give vent to some un-^)g interrupted music.	g
Supplying the latest in popular music g is the engineer of the Daily Express, ■ one Bill Markley. Every afternoon from g 4:30 to 5:00 he serves up those records g which are just breaking around the I country. So if you want to avoid the | routine rut of the South Bend “Polka g Parade” and get a rather fresh view I on the moon-june school of thought, get | yourself a reservation on the Daily I Express.	w|
The final exponent of the WNDU I approach to popular music is Al Riley, I who is the host on the 7:30 to 8:30	1
Penthouse Pops show. He supplies the suave, svelte, sophisticated blend of music suited to evening entertainment.
With all things considered, WNDU’s approach to popular music programming is as fresh and varied as any offered around the country.—Bill Byrne.
14
The Scholastic
Student Sightseeing Jaunt to Nation's Capital ^Slated by Dr. Bartholomew for Jan. 28-Feb. 2
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, Department of Political Science, announced recently that the 14th annual, between-semesters trip to Washington is scheduled to leave Notre Dame Jan. 27 and return Feb. 2. As usual the excursion is open to both St. Mary’s girls and Notre Dame men who will be guided personally by Dr. Bartholomew.
Leaving on Thursday at 4:30 p. m. from the circle, the tourists will journey by bus to La Paz, Ind., to board a Baltimore and Ohio R.R. train to the nation’s capital. In Washington, points of interest to be visited Friday, Jan. 28, include the Supreme Court Building, the Library of Congress and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. If Congress is in session, the trip-» pers will see congressmen from both ™ houses in action.
An over-night steamer trip has been scheduled, which will include visits to Norfolk, Jamestown, Yorktown and historically-restored Williamsburg, Va.
Returning to Washington Sunday, Jan. 30, at 6:30 a. m., the travelers will go to the Franciscan Monastery for Mass and a tour of the grounds. Also on the agenda for Sunday are trips to Georgetown, Arlington Cemetery, and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
The Washington Monument, the Pentagon Building and the Smithsonian Institute are on the itinerary for Monday, Jan. 31. Tentative plans for a “Dutch treat” dance at the Shoreham Hotel are being set for Monday evening.
Before departure Tuesday, Feb. 1, at
Sir Livingston Will Lecture On Education Here Monday
Sil" Richard Livingston, former vicechancellor of Oxford University and president of Corpus Christi College in Oxford, will speak in the Law Auditorium Monday at 4:15 p. m. The title of his lecture will be “Liberal Education in a Scientific World.”
“Sir Richard is a distinguished classical scholar,” said Rev. Charles E. £ Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, “and has written many books on the culture of ancient Greece and its importance in modern history. During recent years he has devoted much thought and writing to broader problems of liberal and adult education.”
The lecture Monday is intended primarily for faculty members, but interested students may attend, space permitting.
5:40 p. m., a White House tour and a Congressional Committee healing have been scheduled and plans are being arranged for a reception at one of the embassies in the capital.
At 6:22 a. m. Tuesday, Feb. 2, the party will return to La Paz and will take special busses back to campus.
The cost of the entire trip is $124. It covers round-trip coach rail fare, steamer passage and stateroom, hotel accommodations in Washington at the Hotel Dupont Plaza. Also included will be tips for meal service, all sightseeing trips, guides and lectures as wrell as admission fees to grounds and buildings and taxes.
All interested in this trip may gain additional information by contacting Dr. Bartholomew, Room 346 O’Shaughnessy Hall or by phoning his home, 4-1472.
Preliminaries Open Nov. 24 For Breen Oratory Contest
The finals of the annual Breen Oratorical contest will be held on Monday evening, Dec. 6, announced Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics recently. The ten finalists will be chosen in the qualifying round Wednesday, Nov. 24 at 7 p. m. in the forensics room of the Student Center.
The gold medal, awarded on Class Day, may be competed for by any underclassman who has not previously taken first place. The speeches, seven to nine minutes in length, should be on topics of current interest. Quoted matter may not exceed two minutes. Contestants must register with Mr. Sommer in Room 344 O’Shaughnessy not later than Nov. 22.
Mr. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, will conduct an oratorical clinic prior to the elimination round. He will illustrate topics suitable for oration, along with the basic styles and techniques of good speech. All those who plan to compete are urged to contact Mr. Eisen, Room 309 O’Shaughnessy before Nov. 17.
DEVELOPMENTAL READING
Applicants for registration in the University’s Developmental Reading Program for the coming semester should contact R. D. Willemin, director, in Room 240 of the Main Building any afternoon during the coming week.
The program, open to any student of any level, is an elective of proven value. Applications must be in promptly to facilitate pre-registration.
Law Ball Inaugurates Barristers’ Weekend
The 1954 edition of the Law Ball takes place tonight at the elite South Bend Country Club. The ball, a combination dinner-dance, is being attended by 100 members of the Student Law Association and their dates. With dinners being served from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m., the dance will get under way at 9 p.m. and last until 1 a.m.
Miss Mary Manion, St. Louis, Mo., reigns ovei" tonight’s Law Ball. Miss Manion, a graduate of St. Mary’s College, is presently employed in the social service department of the St. Louis University Medical School clinic. Her escort, Andrew Walsh, is a senior in the College of Law and general chairman of the dinner-dance.
The queen will be crowned by Robert J. Maley, president of the Student LawAssociation.
Bob Brown’s Spotlighters, with their patented “Sophisticated Rhythm” are providing the musical background for this year’s Ball.
Tomorrow’s Notre Dame-North Carolina football game is included in the weekend plans of the ball-goers. Vincent Raymond, head of the football ticket committee, has arranged to provide tickets for the young ladies and their escorts.
On Sunday the Law men and their dates will attend Mass in the Dillon Hall Chapel at 9 a.m. Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of business affairs, will officiate at the Mass, which will be sung by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Joseph Baumie and Jerome Smith have made preparations for a breakfast at the Morris Inn. Rev. Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C., will speak at this breakfast.
MARY MANION
Reigns for Lawmen
£ November 12, 1954
15
GOP Setback Not Seen As Repudiation of Ike; Farm, Labor Blocs Swing Off-Year Elections
changes of chairmen of the Congressional investigating committees will |-serve as a basis for modifying certain government policies.	.A
By JOE CONNOLLY
Although the Republican Party lost control of both Houses of Congress in last week’s national elections, Prof. John J. Kennedy of the Department of Political Science believes that the results do not necessarily indicate a clear repudiation of the Eisenhower administration. In his opinion, the Democratic victory was indecisive because of the lack of a country-wide trend.
“Whenever a party has gained control in a presidential election it must anticipate losses in the next mid-term election. During this interim the voters apparently are less bound by ties of party loyalty. They seem to be more concerned with local issues than with the national administration,” Kennedy said.
When a President is elected by an overwhelming margin, Kennedy elaborated, he usually carries into office with him a large majority of congressmen from the ranks of his supporters. In such cases, his party can afford some losses in the following mid-term election without losing its control of Congress. However, President Eisenhower has had only a slim Republican majority for the past two years; so a Democratic gain at this time could not be tolerated.
Obviously the Republicans did lose ground in this election. “The important fact,” emphasized Mr. Kennedy, “is that they sustained lower than normal mid-term losses. We probably can’t forecast the 1956 presidential race in view of these results.”
Democrat Hopes, Republican Fears
He admits that the voting in certain critical areas does reveal some criticism of the present administration. He cited Detroit, Evansville, Ind., and towns in Massachusetts as specific examples to back his claim that “the labor vote unquestionably had an important influence in those industrial cities currently faced with mass-unemployment problems.” On the contrary, “the farmers didn’t change their support nearly as much as the Democrats had hoped, nor as much as the Republicans had feared.”
A careful, scientific analysis of the election cannot possibly be made until many important statistics are tabulated. Yet a preliminary study by several of Mr. Kennedy’s colleagues shows evidence of one influencing factor—the method of campaigning that the Republicans were forced to adopt this year.
Since, by tradition, the President sel
dom takes a leading role in mid-term campaigns, the major share of responsibility must be entrusted to other influential party leaders in Washington. This stresses the need for politically-strong persons in the Cabinet, men who are influential enough to get out the vote.
However, most of the members of Mr. Eisenhower’s Cabinet are either businessmen or experts in specialized fields; few are politicians. Remembering that a similar situation existed in former
PROF. KENNEDY
Demo Sweep . . . Undecisive
President Truman’s Cabinet when the Democrats lost the 1952 elections, Mr. Kennedy feels that this factor may have put the Republican administration at a disadvantage in the present race.
Also, because the Democrats so completely dominate the 'Southern states, they are automatically assured of approximately 100 seats in the House of Representatives and 20 or 25 in the Senate. So the Republicans must always work just that much harder to keep a majority. Mr. Kennedy denies any correlation between their failure and the popularity of the President.
“The President is still very popular,” but he adds, “the position of Vice-President Nixon is hard to estimate because he was the leading campaigner for a losing Republican cause.”
Now that the Democrats have regained much of their previous power, the American public is wondering what to expect when the new session begins Jan. 5. Mr. Kennedy predicts that
1954 Tax Law?	A
There may be a few changes in taxes, but they will be hindered be- i cause “nobody yet knows what is in W the recent 1954 tax law.” The Demo- | crats will oppose the plan to continue ( reductions on luxury items, they will :
vote to keep the present income tax law, a holdover from their 1951 ef- v
forts.
When
Representative Walter (D-Pa.)

takes over as chairman of the House Un-American Activities Committee, he will try to abolish it and transfer its functions to a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee. Mr. Kennedy pointed out that this move would be in keeping with the 1946 Legislative Reorganization Act.
S'.-gx:
Ss?
And he considers it likely that the Democrats will scrutinize the 83rd Con- K gress’s civil service record; Senator o Johnston (D-S.C.), new head of the R Civil Service Committee, has already IB indicated his desire to study the mat- ft ter.	'	|fc
Though Senator McClellan (D-Ark.) 8 will replace Senator McCarthy as head ® of the controversial Government Opera- E tions Committee and its Permanent Investigations subcommittee, its policy S should not be greatly altered.
Regarding two other top problems, K’ Mr. Kennedy had this comment: g “Speculators do not expect a change in |l our foreign policy; the lead of the E chief executive must be followed. And K no Congress, Democratic or Republi- K can, can hope to accomplish much by E opposing the executive budget.”	B
Fr. Laskowski Passes Away; j Was Famed Lecturer, Linguist |
Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., | chaplain of the Student Infirmary, died Oct. 29 in the Infirmary. Father Las- j kowski was one of the most brilliant < lecturers and teachers at the University. He was especially adept in the teaching of the Russian and English languages.
During 1946 and 1947 he was faculty moderator of the Scholastic. He was ' responsible for radical changes in the magazine, making it the type of news publication it is now.
In recent years he had twice been
paralyzed by cerebral hemorrhages which partially disabled his speech and brain. By a long process of relearning ' he was able to regain somewhat his , former abilities, finally attaining the position of chaplain of the Infirmary.	'
The Scholastic	y
16
1
The Student Center was packed with military uniforms instead of tuxedos ^last Friday night as 340 embryo officers of the campus ROTC units attended their annual Military Ball.
A military atmosphere reigned over the affair as the decorations symbolized the co-operation among our armed forces. Flags, flowers, and rifles were seen on the second floor of the Senate. There was a globe on the main floor and projecting from it were a tank, a plane and a ship.
9 Chuck Foster and his band, well-known in Chicago dance circles, provided the music for the ROTC officers-to-be and their dates.
The crowning of the dance queens took place during the intermission and was performed in military fashion. They were the dates of the co-chairmen, Cadet Major John Tokar, AROTC, Midshipman first class Lawrence Buckley, NROTC and Cadet Major Eugene Wagoner, AFROTC. They were “Queen of the Land,” Miss Rosemarie Bappert, “Queen of the Sea,” Miss Mary Virginia Kenny, and “Queen of the Air,” Miss Lois Matia.
The chairmen and their respective queens were escorted by a military honor guard to the commanders of the different units. The crowning was done by Col. C. J. Letzelter, USA, Captain F. P. Luongo, USN and Col. M. M. Towner, USAF.
At 1 a. m. the boys marched home and the uniforms were put away to be replaced by Notre Dame’s “civvies” sweatshirts and khakis.
“Smile ... uh
November 12, 1954
The Military Mambo
by Charles Gregory
sometime.”
“Even us officers like to rest
Sorin—Hall of Tradition
by Harry Niemann
Father Cady—Sorin Bossman
The Sunday morning
review from the porch.
The idea of a residence hall with individual rooms was unheard of in the early 1880’s. Most colleges at that time had study rooms and open-hall dormitories, where students studied and lived in barracks-fashion. A few private rooms housed students in the main building at Notre Dame but only because the space had been converted from old closets to house the many new students.
However, the demand for individual rooms soon increased and Notre Dame started thinking about building a hall with private rooms. The result was the ground-breaking for Collegiate Hall in 1888. Father Edward Sorin, the first president of Notre Dame, laid the cornerstone on May 27 of that year, the golden jubilee year of his ordination. The building was then renamed in his honor. ,
Construction on Sorin Hall continued through the fall months. When finished, it had a 144-foot frontage and a depth of about 40 feet, one-third its presentday size. The building was completed during the Christmas holidays in 1888, and was ready for the students when they returned on New Year’s Day.
Father Sorin blessed the Chapel of St. Thomas Aquinas and celebrated the first Mass in it ten days later.
Sorin Hall was a source of pride for Notre Dame. It boasted of being the first Catholic college residence hall in the country with private rooms. The 60 rooms were described by Father Sorin as being “large enough to encourage study and small enough to discourage visiting.”
Rooming System Tops
Educational experts and college heads from all over the nation came to see Sorin Hall’s rooming system. The private rooms were contained on the two-top floors. The chapel occupied the north end of the first floor. The rest of the first floor was used by Col. William Hoynes for the law school.
Admission to Sorin in those days was granted on a competitive basis, depending entirely on the merit of the applicant. He had to be one of the “elite.” Seriousness of purpose and good conduct were necessary to assure a student the honor of living there.
In 1897, Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame,
eased the room shortage due to creasing enrollment when he had
in-two
wings added to the hall. Running at right angles of 112 feet, the new three-story sections changed the building into its present boxed “C” form.
Another innovation, individual furnishings, were provided with each room. Desks, chairs, beds and bookcases were issued by the college. The remaining incidentals, as the student bulletin of the time indicates, were “left to the taste of the student.”
Disciplinary regulations in the early days of Sorin were severe. Visiting in the individual rooms was forbidden, lights had to be out at a certain time, and noises were forbidden.
Nevertheless, Sorin developed a clubhouse atmosphere where students roamed from room to room without the formality of a knock. By 1920, Sorin resembled a country club and its residents began addressing one another as “Sorinites,” a name they have kept to the present day. When the rest of the university was in bed Sorin’s recreation room bustled with activity. Sorin’s own orchestra played sweet music until the early hours of the morning while the students stayed up to play billiards, Old Maid and smoke cigarettes.
A favorite story about Sorin concerns Knute Rockne and Gus Dorais in the days they roomed together in the basement of Sorin. The campus curfew was too restrictive for many of Sorin’s “night owls” who preferred to stay out


£

&
18
The Scholastic
c’
late at night. A “window concession” was promptly opened by Rockne and Dorais. For a small fee the late comers were helped through the basement window, with Rockne and Dorias splitting the profits. The long lines of boisterous students waiting to get in at night finally forced Rockne and Dorais to close shop.
53 And Sorin Today
Sorin hasn’t changed much since those early days. The pale yellow brick building, with its four turret corners and conical towers, resembles an old French fortress. In spite of its appearance Notre Dame men like it and today they are still clamoring to live in it. Sorin’s claim as the most popu-i lar residence hall on campus arises V from the fact it is “covered with tradition.” Through the years the campus celebrities have made it their home and the pranksters have used it as their base of operations.
Although restrictions are more rigidly enforced Sorin’s residents still claim their hall is the most colorful- on the Notre Dame campus. One of its most envied features is the huge front porch. Weather permitting, the Sorinites drag their old piano from the basement and put it on the porch where they play for the passersby. Football week-ends will find them dressed up in their best clothes and sitting on the front porch watching the crowds walk by.
One of Sorin’s tidy basement rooms.
Built in ’88 ...
... Still Standing
“She’s got a friend—a big one.”
Rock Slept Here.
! November 12, 1954
The start of the trip ...	... the goodbyes at the end.
THE STUDENT TRIP
86 Hours of Gobs, Gals and Gaiety
Four hundred student trippers and band members left campus Friday at 4 p. m. Destination: Washington, Baltimore and 86 hours of student tripping. Approximately 5,000 other Notre Darners left the campus at the same time. Destination: Chicago, Detroit, Oshkosh and 86 hours of vacation.
Most of the card players and bull session men had just dozed off early Saturday morning when the band staged an impromptu pep rally at 2:30.
The student trippers made it to Martinsburg, W. Va., Saturday morning for Mass and breakfast.
By noon Saturday they were in Baltimore for the Navy game. The rain had stopped by then but the field looked like the Middies had been maneuvering on it—in battleships. The ND marching band was ready to march but at the last minute they were told to call off the formations. The band members didn’t get those pretty yellow spats sucked off their feet, anyway.
Sixty minutes and one touchdown
20
The Scholastic
Sightseeing in D.C.
Another one relaxing.
“What do you mean, $12.75?”
' later, the troops headed for downtown Baltimore and Washington, D. C., to celebrate an Irish win. Blind dates with Trinity College girls was part of the program Saturday night. The floorshow at the Shoreham was top notch.
Sunday morning the troops went to Mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Washington and then toured the nation’s capital. Trinity played hostess to to the Irish at a mixer Sunday afternoon. Then more sightseeing.
After Mass Monday, the trippers left Union Station in Washington for the return trip to campus.
A tired bunch of football fans struggled back to their halls Tuesday at 6 a. m. Just in time to shave and hit those 8:30 classes.
It was Baltimore in *54
I
i
“I’ll stay and raise you two matches.”	s
£ November 12, 1954
21

The Showcase
“Damascus of Pennsylvania”
By ART EGGERS
Now little bits of curiosity lit up her g. eyes, somewhat as if I was the first to stop during her generation. “I though^ you might be one of those state engineers that are supposed to come to sur- | vey the roads. They want to knock : down some houses for some reason, but ; our organization is fighting them.” I
She showed no signs of moving so I decided to make my stay as interesting f as possible. “What organization?” I : asked.	:
You’re apt to find anything driving around the hills of Pennsylvania.. It was a warm soft day when I came into a little cross-roads town. The usual general store stood on one corner of the intersection. I couldn’t pass up the opportunity to see if they had a cracker barrel.
A Civil War type old man sat, chair tipped back, on the porch. He was complete even to the corn cob.
“I noticed the sign back there said Damascus,” I said. “Were the founders of the town from around the East?”
The old guy thought that over -with closed eyes. “No, they were like the rest of the people around here. Mostly Quakers.”
“How’d this place get to be named Damascus?” I asked.
The chair came down on all four legs and he took the pipe out of his mouth. His eyes screwed up getting me in focus.
The Old Man’s Tale
“About fifty years ago,” he said, "“there was a boy who’d take his buggy and drive every weekend to see his girl. It took just two days to get there and back, with some time out for the girl. He went so often that soon everyone was calling this place Damascus and where the girl lived Bethlehem. You know the two day’s journey from Damascus to Bethlehem mentioned in the Bible. You’re familial* with it, probably,” he said, peering.
“I remember now,” I said, although I didn’t. “Do you have a cracker barrel here?” I asked.
“Sure. Right in there,” he said. He jabbed the pipe toward the back of the store.	’
I walked through the screen door to the back of the store. There was a barrel about half-full of crackers. I put a few in a bag I got from a pile on a little stool alongside the barrel. Then, I walked over to the counter and asked the man behind it how much I owed.
His face was round, bald and wellscrubbed. “Be a nickel,” he said. “How’s the traffic?” -
“Not bad. I just stopped in on the spur of the moment to see if you have a cracker barrel.”	,
22
He turned his head a little to the side, wiping his hands on the big white apron wrapped around him. “You wouldn’t be making fun of our town.” His thick neck got red.
“No. It just seemed funny to have a town called Damascus in the hills of Pennsylvania,” I said.
A Cracker Barrel Version
He put both hands on the counter leaned forward, and spoke slowly. “Not so funny. Back in the old days some pretty good steel was made here. In fact, that’s how the town got its name. A master blacksmith made his own steel here and people say that it could compare to the steel made in the first Damascus. He made some fine knives.”
“I guess those pieces are museum stuff now,” I offered, to reduce the redness, mostly. “Thanks for the crackers,” I said. I put them in my pocket and started for the door. About half-way down the aisle I encountered an ample portion of middle-aged womanhood.
“Excuse me,” I said with definite indications that I wanted to get around her. Either the woman was blind or had never seen a suit coat on a weekday. She didn’t move.
“You’re a stranger in town, aren’t you?”	t
“Yes ma’am, but not for long,” I said.
“Oh, are you going to stay for a while?” she asked. Her mind made visible calculations and reservations.
“No, ma’am, I’m just leaving,” I said.
The Damask Rose
“The Society Roses, all our
S.P.D.R., of course. That’s the for the Protection of Damask Why, those men want to tear up gardens!”
“That’s too bad,” I said, and made another effort to slide by.
“You’ve heard of our roses, haven’t you? That’s why this town is called Damascus. Those Damask roses originate in the Far East. The first settlers around here grew such beautiful roses
that they called these cross-roads mascus. After the roses, you see.”
“Yes. That’s very interesting, I have to go now,” I said and at same time made a lunge past.
Da-

e-
I
but the B She H
hadn’t expected that and was caught off balance. I got through.
Hunying toward the door I came to the conclusion that this little town had
more than a tourists.
The Youthful
I had just

cracker barrel to attract
Warrior
reached my car when a
small boy rounded the rear bumper ® with amazing speed and delivered a 1 mighty blow on my shin with a wooden I sword. At least it wasn’t Damascus | steel. Over a pair of blue jeans, he j wore what appeared to be a Roman toga, a f Snugly holding his ears to the side of g his head was a felt cap, turned up all g around and with a feather on the side. I To complete the costume he had a rope g tied around his middle, into which he | now inserted the wooden blade.	I
Obviously the boy came from a poor I family; no television. I thought that | space men had cornered the market. I “Who are you?” I asked.	’
“Damascus,” he said.
“And who was Damascus?” I asked.
“He was the first guy to settle here,” he said. “That’s what pop says anyway. He came from the East or some place.”
I drove down the road looking for the highway sign on the far side telling all that this was Damascus. It turned up a few hundred yards beyond the store. I pushed it over with the car. Perhaps if no one sees the sign, they’ll not stop.
The Scholastic
Prof. Debye to Deliver ^Chemistry Lectures
Prof. Peter J. W. Debye, winner of the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1936, delivered the first in a series of eight P. C. Reilly lectures at the University yesterday. His initial talk was entitled, “Properties of Polymer Coils.” Doctor Debye was head of the chemistry department at Cornell University from A1940-50 and continues to conduct research there.
, The annual lecture series is made possible by a gift of the late Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., industrialist. Mr. Reilly was a lay trustee of the University of Notre Dame from 1935 until his death in 1952.
The subjects and dates of Doctor Debye’s remaining lectures are as follows: “Molecular Forces and the Concept of w Cohesive Energy Density,” Nov. 23; “Light Scattering,” Nov. 26; “Interference Effects in Light Scattering,” Nov. 30; “Dielectric Properties of Polar Polymers,” Dec. 2; “Viscosity and Sedimentation,” Dec. 7; “Effects Induced by Inhomogeneous Electric Fields,” Dec. 9; and “Field-Induced-Capacity and Diffraction,” Dec. 14.
Each of the lectures is being given in Room 123, Nieuwland Science Hall on the dates indicated.
9 Professor Debye is a native of Maastricht, Holland, and an American citizen since 1946. He was educated at the University of Aachen and the University of Munich where he received his doctorate in physics in 1908. Prior to his association with Cornell, he was director of the Max Planck Research Institute in Berlin. In earlier years he was a professor of physics at Leipzig, Zurich, Goettingen and Utrecht.
" In addition to the Nobel chemistry award, Professor Debye has received medals from professional societies in four countries and honorary degrees from eight colleges and universities in this country and abroad.
Commandant Deichelmann Promoted to Major General
£ U. S. Air Force Headquarters has announced the promotion of Brigadier General M. K. Deichelmann, commandant of the Air Force ROTC, to the rank of major general. General Deichel-icnann was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Notre Dame at the June, 1953 commencement exercises. He assumed command of the Air Force ROTC program in August, 1952. His headquarters are at the Air University, Montgomery, Ala.
0 November 12, 1954
Independent Parasite Unable to Exist Alone, LOBUND Finds in Germ-Free Laboratory
A parasite previously regarded as the sole cause of amoebic dysentery cannot survive, much less produce disease in an animal that is otherwise germ-free, it was reported here recently at a meeting of the American Society of Parasitologists meeting jointly with the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.
Research conducted ovei- a period of three years at the University of Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute indicates that this parasite, an amoeba known to scientists as Endamoeba histolytica, requires help from at least one other micro-organism in order to produce dysentery. A report on the research was made here today by Brace P. Phillips, medical protozoologist of the National Microbiological Institute, a component of the National Institutes of Health.
Amoebic dysentery or amoebiasis, although classified as a tropical disease, affects people the world over. It has been estimated that between twelve and fifteen million Americans harbor the disease organism as carriers even though only a small percentage of this number are disabled by it.
Germ-free guinea pigs, available only at the LOBUND Institute, were inoculated with 300,000 of the organisms which usually produce a fatal amoebic dysentery in normally contaminated animals within 14 days, Phillips reported. However, within a few days every trace of the amobeic dysentery organisms had disappeared from the intestines of the germ-free animals, he said.
Phillips and his associates speculated that some bacterium normally found in the intestine must be present for the amoebic dysentery parasite to thrive and produce disease. While further research may indicate more than one organism that fulfills this function, the investigators have established that one of the bacteria most commonly found in the intestine, Escherichia coli, is entirely adequate to render the amoeba capable of producing dysentery.
In the next phase of their research, Phillips and his associates will seek additional information as to what extent amoebic dysentery is due to the amoeba itself or to the associated organisms normally found in the intestine. Future plans for research also include investigating the possibility that another organism, yet to be identified, may act as an antagonist to the amoeba. This might explain why some persons are carriers of the amoebic dysentery organism yet never show symptoms of the disease. This possibility has been sug
gested, Phillips said, since some of the newer antibiotics, which are prepared from a variety of microorganisms, have amoeba killing properties.
While Phillips’ findings are of great significance to scientists and public health officials engaged in the international fight against amoebic dysentery, the use of germ-free animals in microbiological investigations has even greater long-range importance in his opinion. The development of the germ-free animal as a unique tool in biological and medical research has attracted international attention to Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute. There, scientists have contradicted the theory that animals need microorganisms for survival. This research with amoeba reemphasizes that it is possible for scientists to introduce various disease organisms one at a time into germ-free animals, an entirely new research technique that may lead to a better understanding of many diseases and disease mechanisms.
Schoenherr to Preside Over Engineers' Board
Jerry Schoenherr has been elected president of the Engineering Advisory Board, it was announced recently by the administration. Ed Prein and Frank Florian will hold down the jobs of vice-president and secretary, respectively. Marty Kenehan was chosen treasurer.
Schoenherr is a senior in chemical engineering, co-editor of the Tech Review and vice-president of the American Institute of Chemical Engineering.
Last Tuesday the Advisory Board elected Berkley Cooke chairman of the annual Engineering Open House to be held next spring. Cooke, a junior in architecture, is public relations director of the American Institute of Architecture.
Engineers anticipate an even more successful Open House than the one held last year. The purpose of the Open House is to introduce the various facets of the College of Engineering to the nonengineers on campus and to high school students in the area.
The Advisory Board, in its fifth year, is planning to initiate a basketball league made up of. the various departments in the college. A course evaluation program is also being set up, along with a lecture series. The board will try to schedule speakers which will appeal to the entire college.
Purpose of the board is to coordinate the various activities of the engineering societies.
25
Student Center to Close
The Technical Review is one of the leading collegiate technical publications, having garnered several national awards for last year’s editions.
g;
It

§
I '1
“Tech Review”
The first issue of the Technical Reviezv will hit the stands next Monday.
Subscriptions for students not in the College of Engineering may be obtained by contacting Robert Moore, circulation manager, in 210 Walsh Hall. Subscription price for one year is §1.50.
Announcement of the closing of the Student Center from Nov. 14 to 22 for basement renovation work, and the appointment of a Senate Activities Committee to organize and teach students aspiring to positions in student government highlighted the Student Senate meeting Nov. 8.
The budget for the Charity Chest
Committee for the coming year, the formation of the Hall Council, and plans for the freshmen elections were als^ discussed in some detail.
£
$
Vetville Potluck
All married students living in South Bend are requested to call 3-1802 to make reservations for the Vetville potluck to be held Nov. 21. Everyone is welcome, but no reservations can be accepted later- than Monday. A square dance will follow the meal.
Bridge parties are set for Nov. 19, Dec. 3 and 17, and Jan. 14 and 29.
i-
£

I
I
S
Start your career with a company famous for Creative Engineering. Your knowledge might he a" natural” for the product engineering activity offered in these diversified lines at:
a
I
Bendix Products Division BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION South Bend, Indiana
AVIATION
GU|DED MISSILES
AUTOMOTIVE
Fuel Systems—Controls and fuel metering devices for jet and reciprocating engines.
Landing Gear — Shock absorbing struts, wheels, brakes and hydraulic controls.
Systems analysis, guidance, steering intelligence, propulsion, hydraulics, telemetering.
Brakes, power brakes, power steering, hydraulic controls for passenger cars, trucks and buses.

Talk over your career plans with the Bendix representative. Mechanical, aeronautical and electronic engineers should register with your Placement Director now.
Interviews — November 22
24
The Scholastic
• Scholastic Sports
TAR HEELS GUN FOR SECOND UPSET WIN
Revitalized North Carolina Ready for Irish After Teams Capture Big Wins Last Week
By BOB RUHL
North Carolina’s Tar Heels, reaching their zenith in a stunning 21-19 upset victoiy over South Carolina last week, will try to snip Notre Danie’s four-game winning streak tomorrow " afternoon at 1 p. m. in the Stadium.
But the Irish should be ready for Coach George Barclay’s boys after their workout against Pennsylvania last Saturday and hope to make it the sixth straight victory over the Tar Heels in the series that started in 1949.
A sidelight feature of the game will be half-time ceremonies honoring the 25 anniversary of combined Notre Dame 1929 and 1930 teams, both national champions and the last two elevens to be ‘9 coached by the late Knute Rockne. Frank Leahy, who was a tackle on the 1929 team, will be among those returning.
North Carolina has a mediocre 3-3-1 record to date, holding victories over North Carolina State, Wake Forest and
IRISH TOY WITH OFT-BEATEN PENN IN EASY 42-7 VICTORY
Tom Carey Twists Away and Drives for 13 Yards
South Carolina. The losses have been to Georgia, Maryland, and Tennessee. Tulane was the villain in the tie game.
The Irish, fresh from their most impressive win of the year, will be without the services of center Dick Szymanski. Jim Mense and Dick Frasor will fill in for Szymanski in the remaining four games.
Szymanski will not be the only player that Brennan will miss tomorrow. Paul Reynolds and Gene Kapish, who have been on the shelf off and on this season, will also probably be held out of the contest. Both are still suffering from recurrent leg injuries. Reynolds was hurt again in the Navy game and Kapish was bruised in the Penn tussle. Cocaptain Dan Shannon also suffered a shoulder injury against Penn, but he definitely will be ready for tomorrow’s battle.
Notre Dame’s offense meshed neatly for the first time this year against
Penn’s Quakers with Don Schaefer and Joe Heap moving well on the ground and Ralph Guglielmi hitting his receivers well through the air.
Jim Morse and Dean Studer continued to impress at right half and the
PROBABLE STARTING UNEUP
NORTH CAROLINA NOTRE DAME Frye ......... LE	..	(C)	Shannon
Maultsby ..... LT	___ Palumbo
Foti ......... LG	---------- Bisceglia
Kirkman ------ C	.............. Mense
Koman ........ RG	..............  Lee
Perdue ....... RT	....	Varrichione
Malone ................  RE	- (Q Matz
Bullock	-------------- QB	  Guglielmi
Parker ....... LH ...............  Heap
Gravitte	..... RH .............. Morse
Klochak	.............. FB	  Schaefer
Kickoff—1	p.m. (C.S.T.)
Tar Heels will have to concentrate on this well-rounded attack if they intend to pull another upset tomorrow.
Carolina, however, does have its bright spots. Sophomore halfback Ed Sutton has been a ball of fire with the pigskin, lugging the leather at a sensational 16.2 clip. Connie Gravitte, Tar Heel sparkplug, has scored two touchdowns and has been among the Atlantic Coast Conference top gainers all season with a 5.6 carrying average. He has netted 202 yards in 36 carries. Oddly enough, both are right halfbacks.
Halfback Ken Keller’s injuries at the start of the season have been a tough blow for the Tar Heels. Keller was Carolina’s top scorer last season with 37 points and a 5.2 running average. He has turned in only four points all year, all of them on extra point kicks.
The Tar Heel’s odd two-way split-T system—in which the second team plays as often as the first team—is run by quarterback Len Bullock. A surprise this season, Bullock has spearheaded an improved Carolina passing attack, completing 11 of 16 aerials before the South Carolina game and throwing the winning TD against the Gamecocks.
Sharing the signal-calling duties with
25
4^ November 12, 1954
KEN KELLER 1953 Carolina Leader
Bullock is Junior Marshall Newman, starting Tar Heel quarterback in last year’s Notre Dame game. Newman, though in his third year with the varsity, has never quite filled the bill offensively, especially on the split-T option plays. He is quite adept defensively
Halfback Larry Parker rounds out the potent Blue-White running corps. He is a fine broken field runner and has a 33-yard punting average this year.
Will Frye and Norm Lane, a pair of 190 lb. juniors, hold down the end posts. Frye is very fast and a skilled receiver. Lane was Carolina’s best pass receiver last season, spearing 7 tosses for 70 yards. He caught the winning pass in the South Carolina game. Doug Malone has alternated with Lane at right end.
The tackle slots are filled by Jack Maultsby and Roland Perdue. Maultsby is the anchor of the Tar Heel line and is able to go both ways effectively. Perdue is a converted guard and has been adequate.
The strongest department in the Carolina line is the guard slots where six lettermen have returned. Bill Koman, a converted center, has been outstanding all year. George Foti was out most of last season with injuries. He is an able blocker.
Bill Kirkman, a senior, is the TaiHeel center. He broke his wrist last fall before the season’s opener, but still saw duty before the end of the year.
26
Irish Take Two
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish fared quite well during their recent eastern jaunt, downing the Middies of Navy 6-0, at Baltimore, and routing the hapless Quakers of Pennsylvania, 42-7.
Against Navy, in Baltimore’s rain-soaked Memorial Stadium, the Irish scored early in the second period and hung onto their slim lead the rest of the way to register their third shutout of the ’54 season.
Ralph Guglielmi tossed a 46-yard touchdown pass to Jim Morse for the only tally of the afternoon. Morse gathered in the pigskin on the Navy 15, evaded two Middie tacklers, and went into the end zone standing up. The Irish threatened several other times during the game, but failed to score.
Navy had the ball deep in Irish territory on several occasions, but the Notre Dame defenses held. The Middies appeared to have the tying marker in
JACK MAULTSBY
Ex-Marine, Future All-American
the third quarter when Navy halfback Bob Craig drove to the ND goal, but he fumbled, and Guglielmi saved the victory by recovering the bobble in the end zone.
Penn Provides Little Opposition
Last Saturday 61,188 Franklin field fans saw a stubborn Irish squad overcome a spirited Penn first period to roll to a lopsided victory.
Pennsylvania received the opening kickoff, and the Quakers marched 68 yards down the field, until Guglielmi intercepted a Penn pass in the end zone.
On the last play of the opening period, however, Don Schaefer burst through to the Penn 26 on a 70-yard run. Joe Heap and Schaefer moved
the ball to the Quaker four, and Gug
lielmi sneaked across for the tally. Schaefer kicked the extra point.
. Al
A pass interception by Ray Lemek -set up the second Irish touchdown on ■ the Penn 37 in the second period. Gug- ; lielmi threw to Heap on the seven; a ( 15 yard penalty moved the ball back to | the 22, but Guglielmi tossed to Shannon | for the score. Schaefer’s conversion t gave the Irish a 14-0 halftime lead. .
Notre Dame took Walt Hynoski’s	t
kickoff at the start of the third quar-^ ter, and marched up the field in seven ' I plays. The drive was capped by a Gug- fe lielmi to Shannon pass for the tally. B Schaefer’s kick was good.	ff
Penn’s only tally came in the third R period when Stan Chaplin moved the B ball 45 yards to Notre Dame’s 17 R before Pat Bisceglia brought him down. After a two yard gain on a recovered | fumble, Hynoski dashed inside his right g tackle for the score. Jim Manley’s con- Bl, J
version made the score, 21-7.
Still in the third quarter, Guglielmi’s passes to Morse and Paul Matz gave the Irish a first down on the Penn seven, from where Heap scored. Paul Hornung kicked the extra point.
At the start of the fourth quarter Tom Carey pitched out to Dean Studer, who carried 20 yards across the goal. Hornung again added the extra point.
K

Carey recovered a Penn fumble on the Quaker 26 to give Notre Dame its 1 final scoring opportunity. Sherrill Sipes B and Carey moved the ball to the two, H and Hornung bulled over for the touch- g down. Hornung also added the extra E point to give the Irish a 42-7 victory. g
ED SUTTON
Sensational Southern Soph


The Scholastic
Four Remaining Opponents Capture Victories As North Carolina and Iowa Spring Surprises
Notre Dame’s four remaining opponents registered victories last Saturday in an afternoon that saw North Carolina pull an upset out of the hat and Southern California almost seal-up a Rose Bowl bid.
Down at Chapel Hill, the Tar Heels had to come from behind in the last W three minutes to beat their neighborstate rivals South Carolina, 21-19.
It was North Carolina’s third victory of the season. Although they have lost to Georgia, Maryland, and the Tennessee Volunteers, the Tarheels have also registered wins over North Carolina State and Wake Forest.
Last Saturday’s game saw North Carolina come from behind twice, once in the third period and again in the W waning minutes of the game. The payoff was an eleven yard pass from Tarheel quarterback Len Bullock to reserve end Norman Lane with three minutes remaining. Halfback Kenny Keller made all three conversions.
Iowa Holds Dawson for Half
Iowa’s Hawkeyes, assuming the role of championship spoiler, cut Purdue out of the Rose Bowl picture, 25-14. The host Hawkeyes did the same to Wisconsin on Oct. 30.
Iowa was able to contain the Purdue passing ace, Len Dawson, in the first half. And by the time he began to click in the second act, it was too late. The game was highlighted by Ed Vincent’s 96-yard jaunt and Earl
Smith’s 68-yard punt return. Smith’s run put the Hawkeyes ahead 6-0 with only 14 seconds elapsed in the first quarter.
Vincent’s run in the second period set a modem Big Ten single play rushing record from scrimmage. The old record was 88-yards, set by John Karras of Illinois in 1951. The sprint was off a reverse over Purdue’s right tackle with Vincent behind a host of blockers.
One Boilermaker touchdown was on a Dawson aerial to end John Kerr, covering 80 yards.
The win was Iowa’s fifth of the season and fourth in conference competition. They have lost to Michigan and Ohio State.
Out on the coast, once-beaten Southern California turned back Stanford 21-7. It was the Trojan’s seventh victory against a single loss to Texas Christian, 20-7. To date, the Californians have the best season record of Irish foes, seven wins against one defeat.
The first Trojan score came after a recovered fumble on the Stanford 35-yard stripe. From the 17, quarterback Jim Contratto lobbed a pass to halfback Aramis Dandoy for the TD.
Again in the third quarter an Indian bobble on their 17 gave Southern Cal an opportunity. Contratto passed to Dandoy who went to the one and the quarterback sneaked over.
The final Trojan score came on a 75-yard drive that took twelve plays. Halfback Ron Brown scooted the last
15-yards for the six points. Sam Tsgal-kis kicked all three points.
The final Irish opponent of the season, Southern Methodist, came from behind in the third quarter and slid by Texas A&M last week, 6-3.
It was the Mustang’s fourth victory, having only a tie with Texas to mar their conference record. They have lost once, to Georgia Tech, 10-7.
SMU overcame a three point deficit in the- third period and held the visiting Aggies for the remainder of the game. Duane Nutt climaxed the 59-yard drive with a one-yard pop to win.
SMU meets the Razorbacks tomorrow to decide the championship of the Southwestern conference.
Novice Boxers Start Work For Week-Long Tournament
Novice boxing workouts began last Monday in the Fieldhouse in preparation for the annual tourney.
The practice sessions and instructions will last for four or five weeks, followed at their completion by the tournament that lasts for one week. Last year’s tournament had 100 participants and produced some outstanding bouts in the finals. Mr. Dominic Napolitano, who is directing the drills, expressed his desire to see the same number of boys out this year; the less experience the better.
All members trying out must secure medical slips from the University’s physician before reporting for practice. No one is allowed to participate in the novice tournament if he has had more than three amateur bouts.
THE STURDY ND DEFENSE COUPLES WITH A FLUID OFFENSE TO STUN PENN
November 12, 1954
1

by Paul Fullmer
Mr. Dick Szymanski University Hospital Philadelphia, Pa.
Dear “Szysmo,”
Nov. 12
Schaefer Holds Lead / In Rushing Department |
Fullback Don Schaefer, with 410
yards in 70 carries for a 5.9-yard aver- • age, holds the rushing lead for the Irish | after six games. Dean Studer rates sec- | ond in this department after last week’s f game, carrying the ball 24 times for | 131 yards and an average of five and | a half yards.	t
DICK SZYMANSKI
In pass receiving, the honors are*» | taken by Joe Heap who has pulled ' down 13 tosses for a total of 267 yards, g
A lot of sportswriters have turned out copy this week on your injury and its effect on Notre Dame’s chances this year. We here at Notre Dame, would like to take a little different outlook on this serious injury.
We know the Irish will certainly miss you out there Saturday and in the following games, and one of the means that we have to gauge your worth is to notice how difficult it is foi* the coaches to find a center replacement. You led the Irish in playing time throughout the early part of the season and no reserve could get in enough time to gain valuable experience.
There aren’t too many Notre Dame football players who have earned four varsity letters during their time under the Dome. With freshman eligible in your freshman year of 1951, you earned a monogram as a linebacker on Frank Leahy’s tremendous defensive platoon. Back there in 1951 you teamed up with a few other fair-to-middling freshman players—Dan Shannon, Paul Matz, Frank Varrichione, Sam Pal
umbo, Jack Lee, Ralph Guglielmi, Joe Heap, and Tom Carey.
When the “fighting” NCAA outlawed the platoon system, you began concentrating on offense and gained needed experience behind Jim Schrader. When Terry Brennan took over the Irish coaching reins last spring, he did not look around for his center—for he had it in the person of a 6' 2", 220 lb. pivotman from Toledo, Ohio. And this confidence was well-founded in the Texas game when you paced the stout ND defense.
Michigan State has always been one of youi- favorite opponents if we can judge by the record. In the 1952 State contest, you led the defensive platoon as it held the national champions to a mere 169 yards. The Spartans replied by naming Szymanski on their all-opponent team for this fine individual effort. Again this year you played a smart two-way game against State and one of the Spartan linemen put his tongue in his cheek when he was asked to appraise Szymanski’s ability, “Well, he isn’t bad for his size!” Then the team flew down to Philadelphia for the Penn game and the Irish looked great after a shaky first quarter. A quick ND thrust put the ball on the four-yard line. Guglielmi, showing that he realized the worth of his big center, called the quarterback sneak and walked over behind your powerful blocking.
The radio announcer noted in the third quarter that you were slow getting up after a bruising tackle, but you stayed in. But that evening when you didn’t feel well, the hospital was the next stop. Brennan, “Moose” Krause, and Father Joyce, C.S.C., rushed to the hospital to stand guard with your teammates while the doctors operated on your ruptured spleen.
It might sound a little sentimental, but we think that you were probably mighty glad that you played with the Blue and Gold and under Our Lady’s Golden Dome when they rolled you into the operating room. You knew that you had the greatest student body in the world back here looting— and praying for you through those first few dangerous hours. The troops weren’t thinking of who would play center tomorrow, but how you were feeling and when you would be back on campus.
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish battle North Carolina in the first Notre Dame game in four years that you haven’t been suited for. It probably will feel a little funny listening to your teammates on the radio, but they will have that -winning game ball waiting for you after they wallop the Tar Heels, 27-7.
Dan Shannon, although not high in these statistics, has snagged six throws for 123 yards and three touchdowns.
Guglielmi has attempted 78 passes and completed 42, four of which went for touchdowns. Guglielmi also leads in scoring with 24 points and in pass interceptions with five for 51 yards.
RUSHING Times Carried Yds.
Schaefer _________________ 70	410
Studer  24	131
Heap  62	240
Morse  26	107
Hornung  12	66
PASSING Att. Comp. Yds.
Guglielmi _________ 78	42	739
Carey ______________ 9	5	68
Hornung ___________ 12	3	9
Heap _______________ 2	2	20
PASS RECEIVING
No. Caught Yds. TD Heap ______________________ 13	267	0
Shannon ____________________ 6	123	3
Morse  11	202	1
Matz  7	74	0
PUNTING
No Yds. Aug.
Hornung  5	188	38
Schaefer __________________ 8	217	27
Heap ______________________ 5	117	23
Raich  2	79	40
SCORING TP PAT FG Pts.
Guglielmi  4	0	0	24
Heap ------------------ 3	0	0	18
Shannon  3	0	0	18
Schaefer  1	10	0	16
Hornung  2	3	0	15
Aug.
5.9
5.5
3.9
4.1
5.5
Pct. .538 .555 .250 1.000
28
The Scholastic
Scouting North Carolina's Tar Heels
A veteran North Carolina backfield will bring a multiple-T and split-T offense into the Stadium tomorrow when the Tar Heels try to dump the Irish for their second straight upset win. The split-T option play that is diagrammed here is the key play off this setup. Ralph Guglielmi has run it to perfection this year- for the Irish and the Tar Heels utilize it in shaking their seatbacks past the defensive ends.
The quarterback, of course, is the key man on this play. He must fake both the
fclochok V3
left end and linebacker so his halfback can get a clear shot around the end. Once the end and halfback have concentrated on the quarterback, he pitches out wide to the left half, who circles the end behind the fullback who must move down and knock out the deep backer. The play derives its name from the possibility of the quarterback keeping the ball and ducking in for short gains.
On this particular play, Marshall Newman is running from the quarterback slot and Larry Parker is the eventual ball carrier from left half. Fullback Don Klochak has the important task of moving downfield before Parker and hitting the halfback.
So watch for the option play tomorrow when North Carolina needs that vital yardage.
Badin Edges Dillonites To Retain West Lead
Badin Hall, unscored upon in four games, continued to lead the West league in this fall’s interhall football race. In the fourth week of competition they edged Dillon, 2-0, and de-^feated Morrissey, 12-0.
In the Dillon game, Badin’s defense stood out. Joe Kurzeja, Jim Dowde, and Harry Lockwood paced the defense. Standouts in the game for the Dillonites were Gene Brennan, John Raub, and Joe Yeager.
Badin scored late in the fourth quarter when the Dillon kicker, attempting to punt deep in his own territory, stepped out of the end zone, giving the Badinites an automatic safety.
Badin threatened on several occasions and had two touchdowns called back because of penalties. Jerry Ryan ran both of these, one for 50 yards and the other for 35 yards.
Morrissey, with a 4-1 record, moved into second place by whipping Sorin, 6-0, and Alumni, 12-0.
In the Alumni win, the entire Morrissey backfield of Tommy Edwards, Ed Sullivan, Billy Thees and Ray Miller gained repeatedly through the big Alumni line. Thees’ 50-yard touchdown run highlighted this game. The blocking of Miller and Bing Carlin took out three Alumni tacklers, enabling Thees to go the distance.
The other Morrissey score came late in the first period on a pass from vated by common economic interests and (Continued on Page 32)
Notre Dame Sailors Capture Angston Trophy Eliminations
Notre Dame’s sailing team captured the Area C Invitational Elimination for the Timme Angston trophy last weekend at Diamond Lake. The win left the Irish sailors unbeaten with three wins.
The Irish edged out Purdue, 32-31, to gain first place in the regatta. The meet was decided in the last event when ND skipper Ray Nelson finished second to nose out Senn College.
Over the Thanksgiving week-end the Irish sailors will compete with twelve other teams for the Midwestern championships at the Chicago Yacht Club. A Notre Dame entry has competed in
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight 537 North St. Louis Five Minutes from the Campus
0 November 12, 1954
29

| Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—J ewelry
Irish Harriers End Seven-Year Drought As ND Captures State Title From Indiana
(ruaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
Glasses Fitted
Satisfactory Optical Sen-ice in South Bend for over 50 years.
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop
J. BURKE
Optometrist DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
”The House of Jazz" FOR RECORDS TRY
Complete Line Of JAZZ • DIXIELAND - POPULAR CLASSICAL - BLUES On All Three Speeds Mall ansuherc in the Country Free Catalogs
412 So. Mich. South Bend Ind.
Welcome Back, Notre Dame Students. Radios, Tape Recorders, Hi-Fi Phonographs.
Bonds Records Free with Phonographs.
We Welcome You to
THE TWINS RESTAURANT
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN
T-Bor e—STEAKS—Porterhouse
2
713 E. LaSALLE blocks east of Hill St.
Phone 3-0951
Notre Dame’s cross-country team finally ended Indiana university’s sevenyear reign as state champion by winning the 1954 state meet in an impressive showing last Friday at Indianapolis.
The Irish harriers outdistanced the second-place Hoosiers by a 27-47 margin to take top honors for the first time under Coach Alex Wilson. Ball State placed third with 65 points.
Last year’s state meet went to Indiana by a 20-65 margin over- the Irish runner-up.
Twelve teams, divided into two divisions, were on hand for the competition held at Butler University. Notre Dame was tops in the major college division, and Ball State placed first among the small colleges.
Indiana’s Jim Lambert won first-place laurels for the third straight year. The I. U. senior blazed across the finish line in 20:07.5, as compared with his winning time of 20:26 last year.
Notre Dame’s Bill Squires completed the four-mile course in 20:24 to pace his teammates. “Spike” Daly came in behind Squires with a time of 20:50.
The remainder of Notre Dame’s seven-man squad placed as follows: Jack Gits, fifth; Al Schoenig, eighth; Neil Wallace, ninth; John Linehan, eighteenth; and Al Porter, twenty-first.
In contrast with last season’s 1-4 record, this year’s .Irish squad has Avon three of its five dual meets. In the most recent contest Lambert led the Indiana thinclads to a narrow 28-29 victory over the Irish on Oct. 29 at Bloomington, but Notre Dame gained sweet revenge for this loss in the state meet.
After today’s Central Collegiate Conference meet in Chicago, only one more outing will remain on Notre Dame’s schedule, the NCAA meet at East Lansing, Mich., on Nov. 22.
Coach Wilson lists several factors in the improvement of this year’s team over last year’s. One of these is the addition of Bill Squires, a junior PE major, to the 1954 squad. Squires, distance ace on last season’s track squad, was ineligible to compete in cross-country last year.
Another big factor in this year’s success story is Jack Gits. “Gits has improved tremendously over last year and has developed very fast this season,” Coach Wilson said of his number three man, the only senior on the first string.
The coach is looking forward to an even better year in 1955, with six of his seven regulars returning. John
Michro, a sophomore, has shown promise this season, but has been troubled with a sore leg.
With these returnees and a few men to bolster the ranks next fall, Wilson expects his cross-country team to continue its improvement.
Intramural Wrestlers * Prep for Eight Meets
The Wrestling Club gets into full swing this week with the completion of the intramural wrestling meet today. The meet, which was open to all students, was divided into nine weight classes from 123 pounds to the unlimited weight class and medals will be awarded the winner of each division.	_
There are approximately 50 members in the club now and membership is open to all students. Joe Clark is president; John Gavin, treasurer; and Terry Crowley, secretary.
One of the biggest problems confronting the club at the present is getting boys for the lower weights. Mr. Fallon, faculty advisor to the wrestlers, says the club is “very interested in boys for the lower weight classes.” He believes that most boys have the mistaken idea that you have to be heavy to wrestle, and * therefore the lighter boys don’t try out. But there are brighter spots, too, such as the return of Joe Clark, this year’s captain, and two promising sophomores, Terry Crowley and Jack Mulligan.
The week before a match all the men of the club hold a tournament in each weight class with the winners wrestling in the match for that week.
The club started about five years ago when a group of boys interested in v wrestling decided to form a wrestling club. Mr. Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano was faculty advisor of the club until 1951 when Mr. Fallon came to Notre Dame. This was the first year the club wrestled other schools. They had two matches that year, dropping both of them. Last year’s record was one victory against the University of Chicago and a loss to Wheaton College.
The Schedule:
December 4—Illinois Tech (Here)
January 8—Findlay (There)
January 15—Miami of Ohio (There)
February 5—Northern Illinois
(There)
February 12—Western Illinois (Here)
February 19—University of Chicago (Here)
Date to be—Wheaton (Here)
Announced—Marquette (Here)
The Scholastic
30
Jordan Views Sophs *And 'Hardest' Card
“It al] depends on how well the sophomores develop,” Coach Johnny Jordan stated last week after viewing his cage •charges for the first time this year.
The sophomores Coach Jordan is counting on are: forwards, Lee Ayotte, and Joe Morelli, 6' 8" pivotman Jack Bedan, Gus Luepke 6’ 7”, who doubles •as a forward and center, and John Smyth.
Loss of Dick Rosenthal and Joe Bertrand, the two highest scorers in Notre Dame history, and Bill Sullivan leaves the Irish with three top men to replace.
JORDAN AND STEPHENS
All-American Coach and Guard
The return of Capt. Jack Stephens, number two scorer last year, Bill Weiman, and John Fannon leaves Coach Jordan a good nucleus to work with. These three plus juniors Lloyd Aubrey and Sophomore John Smyth make up the tentative starting five.	-
Other contenders are set shot artist Steve Rebora, Paul King, Bill Kearney, and Bob Jastrab.
Coach Jordan said, “We are playing our hardest schedule in history. The Big Ten teams, Holy Cross, Kansas State, Tulsa, and Bradley will be rugged, in fact all of them are tough. I can’t find any breathers on our schedule this year.”
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
A meeting for all the managers of hall and club basketball teams will be held in the Rockne Memorial Building on Nov. 15 at 7:30 p.m.
November 12, 1954
The Capitals tallest building offers
BEST VALUES in
T
CAIRO »nd S«v»
F	Slop «f th*	cimci c onnue
SINGLE ROOMS
hotel
Running wafer, from $2.75 with bath from $4.00
DOUBLE ROOMS
Running watar, from $4.50 With bath from $6.00
Largo, two-room suites: with bath, ideal for families of four people from $10.00 per day $2.00 per day for any additional person, up to 8 people
BEAUTIFUL DINING ROOM AND COFFEE SHOP MEALS AT POPULAR PRICES Liberal commission to Travel Agents on all
bookings.
loteyn
Cairo
Q Streetot 16th, N.W. JAMES C. VANSTORY, SR., MGR.
START PLANNING YOUR 1955 VACATION NOWI
Travel and study ABROAD
Earn full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the world via TWA—take up to 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan"!
See all the sights. Live in London, Paris, Geneva or Rome and study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited university. You do both during one trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. And you can take up to 20 months to pay with TWA’s new “Time Pay Plan.”
Choose a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages—visit the Orient or go around the world. Special arrangements for sabbatical-year travelers. See these trips in TWA’s film, “Air Adventure to Europe,” now available for adult-group presentation free of charge (except shipping costs). Mail the coupon, now!
Ftythe finest.
1 am also interested in:
Sabbatical-Year Travel □
TWA’s “Time Pay Plan” □
Film, “Air Adventure to Europe” □
runs unnuomuums
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours
Dept. CM, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours to be offered in 1955.
Name___________________________________________Position________________
Address__________________________________________1_____________________
City____________________________________________________Zone___________
State_________________________________Phone Nn
31
Interhall Football
(Continued from Page 29)
Edwards to right end Mike Storen. Both ■ *
tries for extra points were blocked. yl Also in the Western loop, Alumni V and Lyons played to a scoreless tie, and the game between Alumni and Howard was awarded to Alumni by forfeit.
In the Eastern circuit, St. Ed’s re- ft mained in first place by defeating Cavanaugh, 13-0, and playing a 0-0 tie with fe; Breen-Phillips. Bill Gerry and Jack^f Franks were the line standouts for B-P. Dave Crocco broke up the only St. Ed’s scoring threat with a pass fe interception deep in B-P’s territory. ® Farley beat Zahm, 16-0, and tied B Oif-Campus, 0-0. Late in the second ® quarter of the Off-Campus game, Frank g Leahy, Jr. of Farley, missed a 28-yard K field goal attempt, ending a sustained ® Farley march. In the only other scor- W ing threat of Off-Campus, Pete Billick^^ threw a 45-yard pass to Ed Zimmer-^g man, but their offense bogged down O and the threat ended. On defense, Wil- £ lie Hammer, John Rogers, and Bob ® Miller of the Off-Campus eleven ex- J celled, while Mike Caffarella, Donald g and Kevin Reilly, and Joe Ryan stood ® out for Farley.	||
Off-Campus defeated B-P the week H before, 12-0, but the game was pro- || tested and will be replayed at a later B date. ,	ft
Zahm won its first game of the sea-OB son, beating winless Cavanaugh, 6-0. 0 Zahm scored when Jack Bland of Cav- B anaugh had a pass knocked out of his n hands deep in his own territory, and g it was recovered in the end zone by ■ a Zahm end. Ronnie Kolady headed ® the Zahm line, while Mike Kiewel, Don 8 Hazelton, and Ron Blake led the Cav- II anaugh defense.	K
Asia: Military Aid w!
(Continued from Page 12)	■
vated by common economic interests and I the common aversion to colonialism, 8 would unite for economic and military 8 co-operation. “A Pakistan-India-Indo- H nesia-Burma-Ceylon military alliance 8 would certainly be more necessary and ■ more significant in view of Western I defense than a Pakistan-U. S. alliance g alone, which seeks to promote a polar- i ized super-state idea,” is his opinion. I Summarizing the position of Asia, O| Hossain said, “The post-war period found Asian nations independent, highly nationalistic, economically unstable, and without any strong ideology.” To win Asian friendship in the fight against Communism, he recommends that the West disassociate itself from colonialism, foster Asian nationalism, help the Asians toward a stable economy, and battle communist ideology with a positive democratic ideology.
The Scholastic w
32

Now you can get ballroom experience and confidence your very first lesson. Join an Arthur Murray Club Dance Class. You’ll love the gay informality of these classes and be amazed how quickly you learn all the latest steps. But you must act now before these three special classes are full.
Call 2-3339
Call 2-3339
To enter Your Name for CLASSES STARTING
so JOIN AN ARTHUR MURRAY
Tuesday, November 16..............4	P. M.
Wednesday, November 17 ___________.4 P. M.
Thursday, November 18 ____________.4 P. M.
CLUB DANCE CLASS
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men—An open letter to YOU!
Gentlemen,
In the past six years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students. “Mr. Murray” has given me permission to arrange the above three classes at reduced rates! Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gay, Mgr.
Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties!
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios.
We Teach All the Dances—You May Have Your Choice of:
•FOXTROT	• JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING ’SAMBA	’RUMBA
• WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO

Tuesday, November 16 4 P. M. Enroll 3-4 P. M.
Classes Starting
Wednesday, November 17 4 P. M. Enroll 3-4 P. M.
Thursday, November 18 4 P. M. Enroll 3-4 P. M.
P. S. If any six or more students want a class at a different Hour or on a different day—Our Women Instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
can 2-3339 Now Arthur Murray io a. m.-Xo p. m.	120 East Wayne St. Every Day	Above Copp Music Center	Call 2-3339 Now OPEN 10 A. M. —10:30 P. M. Every Day
November 12, 1954
the beck page
by Don Yeckel
During the past few weeks a foui--page questionnaire, “The Religious Survey For 1955,” was distributed to 2,000 Notre Dame students. I filled one out—perhaps you did too. The questions were so interesting, that I wondered how they were being answered by the other people that received them. You probably wondered too. Here are a few of the questions and some of the things that went through my mind when I read them.
Two Important Ones
The two questions that I thought longest about before answering were two in the section on social life. The first one was: “What is the principal external fault of Notre Dame students?” The other was: “What is the principal virtue of Notre Dame students?”
I suppose that there are three positions you could hold on these two questions. One position would be that the Notre Dame man is almost all virtue and hardly any fault; and another is that he is entirely faulty and not at all virtuous. The third position would be that he is a mixture of both. There are certainly people who hold each of the first two positions, but I suppose that the last position would be the most common and the strongest.
If you do think that the Notre Dame student is this kind of mixture, there still remains the problem of whether the virtue out-weighs the fault. It seems to me that it does.
The Virtue
It has always struck me that the best quality of the Notre Dame man is his almost complete lack of pretense. Everyone is what he is and claims to be nothing more. Despite all the talk in the past about “pseudos,” there is really very little false intellectual pretension on campus. I know I’ve met only one or two people I could call pseudo-intellectuals. There isn’t any big show of money either. The kids that are poor don’t try to hide it or play it up, and the ones that are rich don’t make any particular effort to make the fact known.
In this sense Notre Dame is a real democracy. A democracy is primarily a society in which the only claim to merit is membership in the society. Where merit is determined by descent you have a monarchy, where it is determined by power you have a tyranny, and where it is based on wealth or knowledge you have an aristocracy. In
a democracy, none of these things is of primary importance. I think this is the case at Notre Dame. Everyone is judged and judges others on value as a person, and not on these other things.
The Fault
But looked at in another way, this virtue can also be looked at as a fault. Under this other aspect, you could call it thoughtlessness. The point is that we can’t be ourselves all the time. By our very nature we live among other people, and when we act we have to think of them as well as ourselves. Cardinal Newman said that one could almost define a gentleman as one who never hurt another person as long as he could avoid it. Isn’t it very often the case that when we are so busy being ourselves we are being selfish in relation to other people?
And so maybe our principal virtue at Notre Dame is also our principal fault. Sometimes being ourselves is the same as being selfish.
Wait A Minute
I don’t want to be misunderstood here. I can say these things about Notre Dame students because I am a Notre Dame student myself. I believe what I have said mainly because I have looked at myself, not others. Perhaps your answer to these questions was different, because you too looked at yourself, and saw there a different fault than I found in myself.
Another Question	(
There are some other questions on the^ k form that are related to these. Anothei’* question is this one: “Generally speaking, have you found Notre Dame students uncouth in then- speech and (or) actions?” I had to say yes, because I take uncouth to mean the quality of being rough or unpolished, and that’s just what I mean by saying that the Notre Dame student is thoughtless. A person is uncouth or unpolished when he hasn’t had the rough corners of his. personality knocked off by living with’ other people (women), when he hasn’t learned that everything in his natural personality isn’t good and pleasing to everyone else.
Again I don’t want to be misunderstood. I’ve talked more about the fault than the virtue. That doesn’t mean that I think the fault outweighs the virtue. I just think that most people will accept the virtue for what it is, before they’ll accept the fault.	'

And Your Sons?
Still another question that ties up with what I’ve been talking about is one that appears in the first section of the survey: “Will you send your sons to Notre Dame?” This is a question we ordinarily wouldn’t think of before we actually had sons of high school or college age, but it is one worth thinking about now, before our real experiences'" are replaced by the mellowness of the old grad. Of course, the way you answer this question will be determined by your answers to the other questions I’ve been talking about.
There are a lot of other interesting and thought-provoking questions in the survey. The whole section on intellectual life deserves attention, and so do many of the other individual questions. ’ I couldn’t possibly go into them here. Even in the few questions I’ve touched on here, I’ve only tried to sketch some of my thoughts.
The important thing isn’t what I think about these things though—it is what you think about them that counts. And even more important right now is not so much what you think about them, but that you think about them at all.
1
Maybe More
These are some of my opinions on these questions. If you feel like agreeing or disagreeing, amplifying or clarifying, why don’t you drop me a letter at 201 Walsh. IF there’s enough interest in these problems, we could make use of this column to talk them over. It’s up to you. ’
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS

A Notre Dame Contribution
to American Culture
Acting Editor
THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.G.
Managing Editor
FRANK O’MALLEY_____
Contributors to This Issue
Ferreus—The pseudonym of one of the ablest students of American military and cultural problems.
j. B. Duroselle—Dean of the University of the Saar and visiting lec-" turcr in the University of Notre Dame.
Sydney D. Bailey—Editor for the Hansard Society, London, England.
Russell Kirk—Author of The Conservative Mind.
Karl A. Wittfogel—Director of the Chinese History Project sponsored by the University of Washington in cooperation with Columbia University.
E. K. Francis—Professor of Sociology in the University of Notre Dame.
Robert Strausz-Hupe — Chairman of the International Relations
| Group Committee, the University of Pennsylvania.
Book Reviews
William O. Shanahan N. S. Timasheff
Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
|	Frank O'Malley
I	Thomas Brodcn, Jr.
Stephen D. Kertesz B. Szczesniak Roger Paul Peters
■
The Review of Politics is a fine gift for a friend of Notre Dame.
|	For one year $4.00
* One issue $1.25: for students $1.00.
Foreign Subscription $4.40
THE
REVIEW OF POLITICS
Vol. 16	OCTOBER, 1954	No. 4
Ferreus:	Courage or Perdition? The Fourteen Fundamental
Facts of the Nuclear Age
J. B. Duroselle:	The Crisis in French Foreign Policy
Russell Kirk:	Social Justice and Mass Culture
Sydney D. Bailey:	The Revision of Marxism
Kari A. Wittfogel: The Historical Position of Communist China:
Doctrine and Reality
E. K. Francis: Sociological Concepts and the International Order
Robert Strausz-Hupe:	On War and Peace
•
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK
The Editors of the Review of Politics Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my subscription to the Review of Politics for	.year(s),
at $4.00 per year.
Name ...................................................
Street..................................................
0 Check enclosed City-----------------------------------------------------------
QJ Please send bill State-------------------------------------------------------
<5


JACK WEBB & BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award winning “Dragnet’ on TV and radio. They're now in movies too . . . 'Warner Bros, great new picture “Dragnet”.
King
UGGETTi
E
.'o: •rv ,
“GGtlTi
wins
PAIR 1
WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield King Size at the New Low Price and Chesterfield Regular
You’ll like Chesterfield regular —as Jack Webb does — or king-size, like Ben Alexander. Either way, you get the same satisfying mildness, die same wonderful taste, die same refreshing smoke every time. And you get the cigarette proved highest in quality — low in nicotine.
So change to Chesterfield. Enjoy America’s favorite two-way cigarette. They satisfy millions — they’ll satisfy you.
CO.
TODAY'S CHESTERFIELD IS THE BEST CIGARETTE EVER MADE
CHESTERFIELD Besrrofnm
©Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
