■ •
Hot re Dame Scholastic
• DI3CE• QUASI • 3EMPER-VICTVRUS- VIVE- QUASI• CRAS • MORITURVS• ,	-F-X-A-
Vol. XLL	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 6, 1908.	. No. 33.
An Ode for Decoration Day.
Harry
y^BOVE no rabid storm of fight A mournful bugle cries;
On other ears the echoes light
And faintly sink and strongly rise.
The bitter breath of powder smoke
Still lingers on the air, But by the blast no ranks are broke, No heaving chest the vapors choke, To droop in grim despair. No fierce delirium of war
Runs through each quiet breast, But far from all the strife of yore
They know the eternal rest.
Oh, bugle call whose pulsing song . Once stung each man as flame, You stir no more the armed throng As once when winged came The messengers of death; On every heated breath
From southern hills they shed their blood to claim!
A. Ledwidge, ’09.
No battle flashes sear the skies, Where floats the flag of old;
No heart is torn with dull surmise,
If tides of warfare fall or rise, Or if a breast is cold. -
It floats, it floats, o’er stream and hill, Where once the cannon roared;
Unmocked by any rival, still
It flutters now without a thrill Or touch of dread discord.
Ah, once around thee thick and fast The eager foemen fell;
No longer flames the rifle blast,
The riot of the charge is past, And gone the bursting shell!
But hearts of men are throbbing yet With all the mighty past has taught, And from the fabric of our debt, We never, never shall forget
The future web of fame was wrought,
Full forty springs have passed and more, Have bound earth’s brows with tender green, And all the ruddy autumns pour, Unceasing from their garnered store,
The treasured wealth of all our broad demense.
But better than the yellow gold, Or richer treasure of the field,
Is stainless honor never sold,	.
The glory that our soldiers hold, The hearts that never yield.
- All things of earth must pass away:	'	.
Dominions end. and empires fall;
But though we wander far astray From standards 'of an elder day, , Yet still we keep some sprigs of bay . To weave a soldier’s coronal.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
My Evening Star.
Charles C. Miltner, '11.
'PHERE’S a window in the distance, Far across the tranquil lake, Where a little cottage nestles
Half within a verdant brake.
I can see it in the evening; O	-
When the twilight shadows fall
And the mists come o’er the meadows Where the crickets loudly call.
For there shines from out this window Such a wondrous brilliant light, That it seems to be some beacon
Set to guide one through the night.
I have watched its lustrous glimmer Gazing at it from afar,
Till I’ve learned to love it fondly, And I call it evening star.
There’s a face behind that window • Peering back into the night, There’s a hand upon the casement
That has set the flaming light. .
There’s a heart that’s warmly beating With the love of youthful days, And at eve it sends a message To me o’er the crystal rays.
Christian Manhood. *
Francis J. Quinlan, M. D.
N one of the grand stairways that lead from the galleries of the senate chamber in the' beautiful Capitol at Washington, my dear young, friends, there is a magnificent painting represent
ing an officer of the United States navy accompanied by a mere handful of men crossing in an open boat in the very heat of battle, right under the enemies’. guns. You easily recognize in the central figure the. features of Commander Oliver H. Perry, the hero of Lake Erie, the pride of our infant navy; and the superscription to the picture carries even the most forgetful of
the glories of our. early history, back to firmin his determination to live up to duty the famous victory over the British in the even to the1 full; in a word, men that never war of eighteen hundred and twelve. “ give up the ship ”
It is a fascinating and inspiring scene: J And for such as you, my dear young
. T '	.	- tt - h xr- friends, .their is special heed of these strong
Lecture delivered before the University, May 19,	’ -	.	- c -	. °
by the Laitare Medalist of 1906. J '	/ ■ \	. and manly virtues; In the careers for which
the danger of the situation riveting our attention, while sentiments of wonder and approval arise spontaneously in the soul at the manifest bravery of the man, and of the deed. And yet as you look a little closer, a still greater enthusiasm creeps over you; something akin to a thrill of patriotism runs through your whole being; for on the pennant which beholds triumphantly in his hand you decipher the dying words of the gallant Lawrence—heroic words of a heroic leader—“Don’t give up the ship.” And it seems to me, my dear young friends, as I stand before you here to-night, young men of education and refinement, with a knowledge of the literature of the Old World and of the learning and science of the New, with ideals noble and lofty, with a measure and an appreciation of the relative values of worldly or heavenly things, of the need of a high ethical standard and of religious principles and sentiment which have been propounded to you so thoroughly and so earnestly by your devoted instructors and professors in this excellent institution here—it' seems to me I can offer to you nothing that can be of more practical moment in your career when you leave these maternal halls, crossing, I might say, the threshold of active life, than that you realize and put into daily practice in your lives the prin-. ciples of manly virtue that are so forcibly illustrated in this striking historic scene.
We need men of courage and bravery to-day. We need a Lawrence and a Perry in every avocation, in every profession, in every walk of life: men stanch in the performance of duty; men fearless in the defence of right; men, who, while they reck the danger and the possible consequences of an act, nevertheless, when there is question of duty to God or to fellowman, to Church or to State, stand unflinching in their determination, steadfast in their devotion, resolute in heart and head. And we need perhaps even more -the persevering man, the man not only brave and true but constant, fixed
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
by your education you are being superbly fitted, and to which by the very nature of things you are surely to be drawn; whether it be civic or commercial leadership, whether I it be a private or a professional life, you s will have battles like that of “Lake Erie;” battles that will wage fierce and strong;
.. and your flagship—even that of Perry—at । times will sink beneath your feet. There will be an open sea to cross. There will be ? enemies’ guns to be run; and, what is more '	to my point, you will survive and be vic-
r	torious as was the conqueror of the “Lake,”
’ only by standing true to your principles even as did he in the very heat of contest, in the very face of opposition, no matter how bitter or violent or lasting it may be.
. Take the young lawyer for instance. No j	sooner will he have his name fastened to
i	his door than the question will arise: Shall
h he take this dishonest case or not? In the '	midst of a fierce legal battle—and perhaps for
the right—shall he use a means that works < so quickly and well, often used too by able i though less scrupulous men, and yet one that in his intellect he knows is against the law and in his conscience that it is ethically wrong?	.
Take the future statesman just now beginning his political career. He learns that crooked work at the polling box is being contemplated; shall he stand for the integrity of the ballot? It will cost him dearly; it may make him many a foe.
And so I might go on, but ere I grow too wearisome, I want briefly to show that even in the profession to which it is my good fortune to belong, there must be a struggle । for principle ere lasting success can be achieved. Shall the young physician yield to I the enticement of quackery, which if duly advertised yields pecuniary profit, though it - robs him of his self-respect and of anything • like personal advancement or professional esteem? Shall he consent—and for money— when the operation he suggests or performs, though secret from the eyes of men, cries to heaven for vengeance—so heinous is it in the eyes of God ? And again, and more probable, is the conflict here; shall he rise to the height of the possibility for good that his profession creates for him ? Shall, he seek to realize, and at an expense at times of disposition • as well as of leisure and the comforts of -
family and friends—shall he seek to realize, I say, in his fellowman a nobler and a better race? To safeguard the youth by teaching those that come under his sway the awful truth, that any grave misuse of the natural powers that were given for the propagation ' of the species, will render the guilty one less capable of the physical and mental strain demanded by the ordinary contingencies of life, and will so affect the progeny— if there remains capability of reproduction at all—as to make them a humiliation to their parents, a source of inconvenience to their fellow-creatures, and a burden to themselves.
Will he stand up, and at a cost too; to point out to the patient individual, who* may not appreciate the danger and the horrors that come from the so-called social evil—the venereal diseases—that . these dangers can not be over-exaggerated, that these horrors can not be portrayed vividly enough; and that if something is not done within the next short part of a century -to check the appalling ravages of these foul diseases, the physical glory of our great country will begin to wane? And in this crusade, not only the clergyman and the physican but evexy earnest citizen should be enlisted.
And we need brave men to do all this; men, as I have said, fearless in the performance of duty, unflinching in the defence of right; men loyal to the high standard that their professional life demands of them; loyal to their country, to their Church and to their God.
And you, young men, schooled as you are here in virtue as well as science and arts, with your high aims and lofty ideals, you are the men on whom society, the Church and the State depend. Will you . be loyal and brave in the fight ? I feel confident you will, and that your victories will be exceeding great; that you will be real heroes in whatever line you may choose to follow, and that though your features may not adorn a symbolism of manly virtue on any canvas here on earth below, yet in the galleries above, by the assistance of God’s holy grace, your good deeds will ornament just as fascinating and inspiring a scene; for they will be writ, and writ large, in the “Golden Book of Life.” .	'
5^4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
NOTRE DAME AND THE EAST.
SAY, have you heard the late news, fans, The Kiner of the West, Notre Dame, Has taken the East on its wagon, • And won for itself pow’r and fame. The folks all awoke with a start, fans, Their stock of good sense has increased;
They never quite knew What a West team could do, Until N. D. invaded the East.
The old N. D. team is a beaut, fans, As loyal, as valiant, as true, As any that e’er tossed a baseball In the fight for the Gold and the Blue.
They’ve won for us honors out West, fans, And new lands and teams they have fleeced.
The world saw their light, - And the West looks more bright Since old N. D. invaded the East.
So, cheer them, yes, shout for the team, fans;
You ought to, they merit your praise.
They’re winners, they’re champions always, They’ve turned on N. D. the world’s gaze. Hurrah! for the Varsity squad, fans, And lower your shouts not the least.
We love the old team, ’	Cheer them, fans, they’re a dream,.
That old team that invaded the East.
.	George J. Finnigan, ’10.
why ?	'
Why do the first blooming buds ever bring . Joy to the sight?
Why do our souls on the first day of spring ' Thrill with delight ?
Why does the first robin’s song seem so fair, Heard from the street ?
Why are the first fruits of summer most rare, Lucious, and sweet?
Why are the lessons we first learn in life . '• ,	Deepest impressed?
Why are the triumphs first gained in the strife . Prized*as the best?
Why are life’s first recollections, in sooth, .	‘ Sweet to recall?	'	,	.
Why are the friendships first formed in our youth Truest of all?	...
" .	.	Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
'	WITHIN AND WITHOUT. - '	.
If every man’s internal care
V - Were written on his brow, - .	/
How many would our pity, share ..
, ~ ;	? Who raise our envy now.	'
- .	. The; fatal secret, when revealed, --A--
.	Of every aching breast, 5 •'	,
J Would prove that oftly while'concealed .
?	; Their lot appeared the best. . /	‘ -
' R. Sieber.
., ’10.
THE RIVER. .
I am far, far away from the voice of the river, But I hear in a dream its spirit cry;
And it pierces my soul till my heartstrings quiver:	■
’Tis a loving friend that can never die.	i
' *
O the yellow moon on that glorious stream, And the waters glistening bright,
They are calling to me in the voice of a dream, In the calm and tranquil night.
How its heart responds to my changing moods, As I lie on its pulsing breast,	'
And the echoes soft of its solitudes
Soothe "my troubled soul to rest.
I heax* the’croak of the bull-frog strong And deep from the further shore, While mv thoughts revert, as I -list to his song, To the happier days of yore.
The river’s mightv strength I feel, Sweeping on to the roaring ocean.
And the ceaseless throb of its heaving breast, The resistless roll of its motion.
And though far away it calls to me ' Through the wail of its desolate spirit. And happy again I can never be Till my. soul is resting neai' it.
’	Denis A. Morrison, Jr
. JOY.'	-
There’s not a joy that life can give, There’s not a cheer the world can show, Like that I feel when mother’s smile ' Dispels my sorrows, pain and woe.
Otto A. Schmid, ’09.
A REMEDY.
Said a millionaire’s wife: “Now be still
Till.I give him this dynamite pill;
It will work like a charm,
And, pray, what’s the harm	•
If dear Will- wills me all, and he will.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
:	- INCOGNITO.
L saw .a wondrous thing ;
Shoot through the clouded sky, . I. saw it leap through space,	.
- Then darken, vanish,, die.
I saw a. zigzag streak, J	.>
A momentary flash _
■ Of lightning through the storm Attended by a. crash.
< A gleam, from; void, to gloom, .	.
; .Mayhap a strange decree; .
, . Unkxidwn, with: life’-so short," .
What could - its message be ? ..	"
-	'	.4-.‘J.J4/ , J Otto ' A; Schmid, ’09.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Memorial Day Address.*
W. A. McInerny, LL. B., ’01.
In the calendar of .every people are days of celebration and of special observance; days which mark some special advancement or national achievement. Some recall deeds of daring and prowess of arms; others commemorate the victories of peace. All such observances are prompted by the gratitude of men and to inculcate the nobler sentiments which have inspired men to unusual effort in every plane of life. In our own land many such days have been designated for celebration, some in recognition of individual greatness, others to recall the securing of particular rights or privileges; but none appeals more strongly to * our people than this day devoted to grateful veneration of the nation’s heroes.
No trait of human nature is more marked, or more elevating, than the worship of heroes. In all times, poets, in their sublimest efforts, have sung the praises of the brave. The page of history glows with the story of their prowess. Orators have dwelt upon their actions, while stone, bronze and canvas, the sculptors’ and painters’ art, have illustrated their lives and tragic deaths. So have we come to-day to repeat the old, old story; to tell to succeeding generations that we too may boast of military greatness; to tell mankind that the American soldier, plucked untrained from the fields of industry, is worthy of a place among the martyrs and the heroes of other lands and other davs.
,We address ourselves in a particular manner to the veterans of our great Rebellion, through whose instrumentality this day has been dedicated to the memory of our soldier dead. In so doing'we are not unmindful of the sturdy colonists who died that liberty might live, and laid the foundations oDa nation’s greatness on the principles of equal' rights and self-government. Nor are we forgetful of those who met death to maintain our position at- a time when the government was young. Still less would we overlook those who Recently, or even now, have answered to the call of duty, and have gone manfully forth where the fortune
* Delivered before the University, May 30.	.	.
565
of war has taken them. America honors every man who has marched beneath her flag; she mourns for every son who sleeps within its folds.
But in these victors of our fiercest struggle we see a representative type of the American soldier, as a class. Every brave deed which has glorified the field of battle, every hardship, every suffering known to military -service, was reproduced on the battlefield of the Rebellion. By its veterans was experienced every agony, by them was displayed every valor, which the past has pictured 01* the horrors of the future can unfold to men. We honor the veterans of the Rebellion, fcr they fought in the noblest and most worthy cause. They bared their breasts to the shock of battle that the Union might be preserved; they laid down their lives that the cause of liberty should not suffer. The true glory of sacrifice or martyrdom is the cause for which one suffers, and “he does not die young wdio lives long enough to die for his country.”
The traditions of every land, the past glory of every people, centre about some band of patriotic heroes who fought for home and liberty. Of such as these the poets sing, and succeeding generations are pleased to call them great. The names of Bruce and Wallace, who fought for the land they loved, are written in imperishable glory; their deeds have been translated into many tongues, while those who fought against them are forgotten in the vastness . of the past. The Black Domingan, Toussaint L’Ouverture, fought for liberty, and his name is honored in every land. This unlettered negro fighting Tor a principle, was greater than a Caesar, and his praises are sung throughout the world, while those who sought to beat him down have received no word of praise. . So shall the. glory of our heroes shine forth for future generations, so shall their praises be sung, wherever liberty is prized.	.	'	„
By the middle of the last century America had attained a reputation as a peaceable and a peace-loving nation. It was. in the midst of its material development. Its sons . were occupied in the avenues of trade and industry. The people were chappy, prosperous and content, but the horizon was darkened with a great political and eco
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
nomic question. It stood out bold and black and repulsive. Officials feared and statesmen trembled for the future. Conciliation failed. The flag of the country was insulted, the authority of the government despised, its rightful allegiance set aside, when the manhood of the nation answered to the call to arms. All that Washington had accomplished, all that the nation held most dear, was in danger; the stability of the government was in question, when the soldiers of the North enlisted beneath the flag. From the farms, the stores and count-ingrrooms vouth and matured age, with untrained hands but willing hearts, went forth in defense of the Union.	♦
They went into the army without one feeling of personal hostility to the enemy; bound by ties of friendship and blood to many of those with whom they fought, hating none of them, anxious that they might return to their true allegiance, hopeful that theii- eyes would soon be opened to the true conditions of affairs. With unfaltering trust in the God of battles, filled with the holy purpose of restoring the unity of the republic, they took up arms only to lay them down when their purpose was accomplished.
We of the present generation know nothing of the scenes which followed. We, who boast of civil liberties, can never know' the fearful cost of preserving our political institutions. Our knowledge of war as gleaned from history is a story of brilliant charges and brave defense. We know nothing of the misery, the suffering and the death. Could we but see what these men have seen, could our minds .picture for a moment the scenes which flood the memory of each of them, could we but stand where brothers fell and grim death reigned supreme, then could we know of the heroic sacrifice they have made, then could we appreciate the liberties they have bought.
In every land throughout the world, arches, pillars and lofty towers are raised to perpetuate the glory of military greatness; but where in all. time would we find nobler deeds or more worthy motives than those we commemorate to-day?
In the. number of its victims this war stands the greatest civil conflict of all time; never were battles more fiercely fought,
never was victory more dearly purchased. Humanity shudders at the death of those who rode the fearful charge of Balaklava, where men rushed fearless into The jaws of death; but Balaklava’s scenes were surpassed in ferocity,, in numbers and in death upon our battlefields. At Shiloh, Cold Harbor, Fredericksburg, Gettysburg, in the East or in the West, wherever our troops were in action, men walked through blood to yet a bloodier death, and taught the world that valor was not dead. ’
It was in many ways a remarkable struggle, begun under unfavorable conditions, fought in the enemy’s country against foemen worthy of our steel. Our foe was not untrained, unarmed rabble, no servient race nor savage host. American manhood was arrayed against American manhood; bravery met bravery ; intelligence combated intelligence. It was war to the death; Greek against Greek, and the God of justice smiled upon the right. And when all was over, when the last chain of slavery had fallen, when the Union had been restored, the men came home again; the youth of yesterday was now a military veteran; boyhood was transformed into age, and when they marched in grand review 180,000 strong the world beheld a spectacle it had never seen before —180,000 seasoned warriors gladly returning to the life of toil and peace. The great work had been accomplished. The vast mechanism of industrial activity was again in motion: “The horses which charged against Lee in April walked in the furrows by the last of May.”
To have aided in the preservation of a nation is a distinction which all men honor, but to the survivors of that heroic band is given another and crowning glory. As the evening sun darts its slanting rays across the land enveloping the world in sunlight calmer and more beautiful than the brilliancy of noon, so are the declining days of your life resplendent with honors, no less glorious than the brilliancy of your military exploits.	.
From the day that the Union soldiers laid down their arms -to the present they have led in the work of patriotic education. These men know the value of the liberties we enjoy; and every sensible movement to inculcate patriotic thought, every effort to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
train the younger generation in the way of higher citizenship has been instituted or encouraged by the Grand Army of the Republic and its kindred organizations. The importance of this work can not be overestimated. Leaders of popular thought tell us that the great need of the present .is that Americans know less of stocks and bonds and more of the traditions and fundamental principles of our government. We must teach the youth of the land that the nation’s past is a record of heroic deeds and unselfish sacrifices; teach them that we have reached our present greatness through the blood of martyrs and the wisdom of patriotic sires; -teach them that every liberty we possess was purchased at the price of blood, that every glory of our flag' is signed with the seal of sacrifice; teach them that liberty thrives in the atmosphere of love and devotion, that it is dwarfed, stunted and deformed by selfishness and commercialism. To such a work has the Grand Army of the Republic been consecrated, and therein lies the crowning day of a soldier’s and citizen’s career. .
I have touched upon the life-work of our soldiers, not that these things were unknown to you, for the world knows their history by heart; I have recalled an important period of our history, because men of the present day are apt to under-estimate the enormity of the evils which threatened, and because no man can read the history of our struggles that he does not turn from its pages a better man, a truer patriot, a more thorouerh American. And as we recall the glories of the past what should be our sentiments toward those who have written ourhistorv in the blood of sacrifice? These men who assumed the dangers and hardships of war, had no greater interest in the result than others of their countrymen. They went forward without hope or thought of personal glory. The thousands of unmarked graves throughout the South, the bleached bones glistening in the summer sun, tell the common and expected end of martyrdom. These men were under no greater obligation than others to risk their lives for the common good, and it is the unselfish loyalty which prompts the nation’s gratitude. - .
In what better way can* we show our
appreciation of patriotic deeds than by emulating their example? Let us take up the great work of patriotic education which these men have begun. Let us learn that self-interest is secondary to the public good ; . that our duty to liberty and to country is second only to our duty to God.. Let these truths be the foundation of our national education; inculcate them into our daily lives, and the liberties which these men have preserved for us shall for airtime be secure.
We do homage to-day at the shrine of heroes’ tombs. Every grave that bears a flag to-day is the silent home of one who offered life itself to his country, and no man has lived who gave his country more. We are in the presence of those who have lived to teach us the virtue of patriotic example. What an occasion for serious reflection; what an inspiration to patriotic effort! Such an occasion is a tribute to our dead, and moves the living to a realization of duty. And let us pledge ourselves to these men that the observance of this day shall never be neglected; that the time shall never come when their glory shall be dimmed, , their memory forgotten; that with the annual recurrence of this season, the brightest flowers, the perfumed blossoms of the spring, shall be strewn by loving hands about their tombs.
The . Cry of a Weary Soul.
- R. T. Coffey, ’10	-
gENEATH the sullen crags of black despair, There lies a little world! a world so bare, Unlighted, gloomy, hateful, cold and mean, The only world that I have ever seen.
But far beyond these Alps, whose dreary mists Depress the world I know so 'well, exists Another world,—a world with amber hue, The appanage -of grandeur’s chosen few, That world in which assuming wealth disdains To view the other world, so full of pains. Do you, oh world, call this your mightiness, To play the sychopant to smug success?
’Tis sad, as down the aeons time has whirled, A hypocrite you’ve always acted, world, A smirking, fawning world with double face, Dissembling many places in one place.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
. ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 5, 1908,
Board of Editors.
by the citizens of our neighboring city. The following is the text of the Mayor’s address:
It is a pleasure, ou behalf of the business men of South Bend, to assist in the presentation of this evidence of friendship and esteem. The kindly feeling entertained by the people of our city toward all that pertains to Notre Dame finds new expression in this flag staff which we trust shall often bear, aloft the insignia of victory.
The exceptional success of the athletic teams of the University is a matter of pride to us. We feel a lively interest in all departments of your work, and it is to impress upon you our deep appreciation of your efforts to maintain college sports in a clean, manly manner that the business men of this city present this gift.
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08 FRANCIS T. MAHER', ’OS IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09 JOSEPH BOYLE, ’OS EDWARL M. KENNEDY, ’OS FRANCIS X. CULL, ’OS GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 RICHARD COLLENTINE, ’09 HARRY A. LEDWIDGE, ’09 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll
WILLIAM LENNARTZ, 'OS VARNUM A. PARISH, ’OS JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’OS JAMES J. FLAHERTY, ’OS ROBERT L. SALEY, ’08 OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09 COE A. MCKENNA, ’10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09
The New Flag Tower.
After the presentation speech came the hoisting of the pennant by the captains of the four athletic teams: Joseph R. Scanlon, captain of the basket-ball team; Dominic L. Callicrate, captain of the football team; Lercw J. Keach, captain-of the track team; John Brogan, captain of the baseball team.
In accepting the pennant Father Cavanaugh spoke as follows:
Your Honor, on behalf of the University, I accept this flag tower and this college emblem, and I wish through you to thank the'generous citizens of .South Bend who have afforded this new testimony of their devotion to Notre Dame.
Within the past two weeks there has been constructed a steel tower 135 feet in height near the northern terminus of the 220 straightaway on Cartier Field. It is a gift to the University by the citizens of South Bend. The pennant which floats from it is the gift of the students of St. Mary’s College. Back of the twofold gift is the large-hearted enthusiasm and loyalty to Notre Dame of an alumnus of the University, Mr. John Worden, who is at present the director of our art department. The record of all the fine things that were saideabout John for the splendid share he had in the gift would fill a pamphlet. Certain it is that he has shown the right spirit of the loyal son of Notre Dame. The idea was his own, and the energy which made the project a success came from the same source.
The formal presentation was made by the Hon. E. J. Fogarty, Mayor of South Bend, last Saturday afternoon at two o’clock. The address was a happy expression of the high regard in which the University is held
I deem it a favorable occasion to say to you, Sir, as the executive of our beautiful city, that I note with pride the evidences of growing interest and friendliness on the part of the people of South Bend. Wherever I go I tell a tale of wonder about the broad spirit that rules like a benign deity in -our city. Admirable as is the spirit of progress exemplified in her great I ndustries I still think that her most striking characteristic is the spirit of brotherhood that hushes the voice of strife and binds men of various faiths and different political creeds together in the proud. consciousness that we are citizens of no mean city. I have never heard that the University has asked a service of the city that has not been enthusiastically rendered, and I trust that the University will always stand prepared to do for the city any service within its power. I thank you, and through you, the people of South Bend for their cordial and generous spirit which this occasion so happily illustrates.
Gentlemen of the University, the honor of this. flag is in youi* keeping. As the Stars and Stripes are the emblem of America, so does this pennant symbolize ' your Alma Mater. Give its folds tenderly to the breezes to be petted and caressed by the persuasive winds of heaven; and as you stand beneath its beauty, pledge yourselves anew to uphold the honor of your University in all the conditions of life. That flag has waved over many a field of conquest, but, thank God, it has never known a stain of dishonor. Whether in victory or defeat, the men who fought under the Gold 'and Blue have fought a clean and honorable, battle;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and calumny itself dare not stand up in its place and say that success was ever purchased at the price' of manhood.
To the athletes of the University I offer congratulations on the victories that have come to them. A nobler baud of gladiators never did battle for any cause, and I say to them that it is one of the happiest experiences of their lives that thej- have come into close association with men like Barry and Maris and Curtis—all of them admirable examples of moral as well as physical manhood.
Nor can we forget in the exultation of this hour the noble girls of St. Mary’s. They have claimed the privilege of presenting to our athletes this college pennant. It is the tribute of beauty to valor, of purity to strength. The gift of sympathy is the supreme gift of woman, and this flag is a token that wherever we - are interested we may securely count on the enthusiastic sympathy of our sister college. To them on your behalf I give thanks, and to them on your behalf I promise that whether in athletics or in debate or in oratory or in social life we who stand beneath these colors to-day will never give them cause to regret their confidence and their interest.
Decoration Day at Notre Dame.
The 30th of May was as usual observed in a fitting manner at the University. The program of exercises for the day was held under the auspices of the Notre Dame Post No. 569 Grand Army of the Republic. After Mass in the University Church, there was a general assembly in Washington Hall where the following program was presented: _
Reading the Governor’s Proclamation—F. C. Walker, ’09 America.....................Sung	by the Audience
Lincoln’s Address at Gettysburg—George Sprenger, ’OS -Columbia.....................Sung by the Audience
Memorial Ode.................Harry	Ledwidge, ’09
Nearer,-My God, to Thee....Sung by the Audience
Address of the Day..Hon. William A. Mclnerny, ’01
At the close of the exercises the audience moved in procession to the flag staff where the national colors were raised from halfmast to full standard. Immediately afterward the old soldiers marched in procession with the University band to the cemetery where the graves of the dead members of the Notre Dame G. A.R. Post were decorated.
The feature of the exercises of the day was the address of William A. Mclnerny, an alumnus of the University. Only on very special occasions does it happen that a speaker is introduced with such expressions of approval and regard as were used by the President of the University in presenting
569
Mr. Mclnerny to the audience. We have the pleasure of presenting his discourse in full elsewhere in our columns this week.
The present membership of the Notre Dame Grand Army Post is as follows: Commander: Brother Leander, Co^ B, 15th U. S. Infantry.	-
Senior Vice-Commander: Brother John Chrysostom, Co. I, 54th Pennsylvania InPy.
Junior Vice-Commander: Rev, Edward Martin, U. S. Navy.
Adjutant: Brother Cosmas, Battery D, 2d U. S. Artillery.	"
Quartermaster: Brother Benedict, Co. A, 1st Pennsylvania Heavy Artillery.	.
Officer of the Day: Brother Raphael, Co.
C, 133d Pennsylvania Infantry.	.
Officer of the Guard.: Brother Ignatius, Co.
E, 75th Pennsylvania Infantry.
Chaplain: Rev. R. I. Boyle, Co. C, 37th New York Infantry.	.	.
Surgeon: Rev. F. Schmitt, Co. B, 100th Pennsylvania Infantry.	‘	.
Brother Eustachius, Co. H, 83d Ohio Inf’y.
Lsctures by John G. Ewing.
The classes in Economics and Sociology were afforded a treat this week when John G. Ewing, a former professor of the University, spoke on Socialism. The lectures took place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and though primarily intended for the students in the History and Economics Course were well attended by the other collegiate men.
In the first period the lecturer spoke of socialism from the point. of view of an economist. After outlining the fundamental principles of productions he showed that under the socialistic system there would be less produced and a larger number to be provided, for.	•
On Tuesday the question of liberty was discussed. After pointing out the difference between anarchy and socialism—the. one being an abuse of liberty, the other, a restrict tion of man’s rights—it was shown that .in the socialist state there would a restriction not only of man’s external actions in relation with; his fellowmen, but .freedom of conscience would likewise be interfered with.
The final lecture on Wednesday treated
57o	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the relations between the Catholic Church and Socialism. Attention was called to the tendencies existing in the socialist party, as we know it in this country, and to the outright declarations put forth by the international socialists in their dealings with the family, the school and the Church. All who were fortunate enough to hear Mr. Ewing are outspoken in their praise and thanks.	_______
Dr. Smith’s Lectures.
Owing to an overcrowding in our columns last week we were unable to make a report of the Rev. Dr. John Talbot Smith’s lectures. In Washington Hall he spoke before the University twice, once on “The Play” and once . on “ Richelieu,” Lytton’s famous drama. In the latter case he was assisted in the reading of two scenes from the play by Professor J. A. Dwan who played the title-role a year ago with such remarkable success. In both lectures Dr. Smith spoke with the fluency and ease of a master and with the air of authority that properly belongs to one who knows his subject thoroughly. Besides these two lectures Dr. Smith addressed the English classes several times during his stay at the University and . met some of the societies in the various halls. It is officially announced that he will be with us during a portion of next year to lecture before the English classes.
Dr. Francis Quinlan’s Lecture.
On Tuesday, May 19, Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, the eminent physician of New York and distinguished Lsetare Medalist, lectured before the University on the subject of “Christian Manhood.” We have the pleasure of. presenting the text of part of the lecture in our columns this week. Much of the lecture was extempore, in the nature of a heart to heart talk that made a; lasting impression on all who were fortunate enough to be present. Dr. Quinlan is one of the most enthusiastic of the admirers of the University, and is among; the best beloved of those with whom the members of the University have come in contact.
Freshman Oratorical Contest.
Last Wednesday afternoon twelve members of the freshman class met in an oratorical contest in Washington Hall. The judges of the contest were Fathers L. Heiser and J. MacNamara, and Mr. R. Wilbur. The gentleman who won first place is to receive a prize of ten dollars. The contest was remarkable for the fact that.it was so close all the way through that the judges found difficulty in harmonizing their judgments. In no case were they unanimous in their opinion, the difference being most marked with respect to those whose average of points placed them farthest from first place. One was marked twelfth and fifth, another was marked twelfth and fourth, still another was marked eighth and second. These facts indicate that the contest was a very close one; what is better, it was of a very high standard. The decision of the judges ranked the speakers in the following order:
T. A. Lahey, “ Toussaint L’Ouverture ”; C. C. Miltner, “The Ethical in Economics”; F. J. Wenninger, “ Child Labor C. A. Scholl, “Child Labor”; J. A. Quinlan, “Wealth and Socialism”; J. W. Ely, “War and Peace”; W. J. O’Shea, “The Spirit of Internationalism”; J. N. Donahue, “A-dvantages of Adversity ”; J. C. Sullivan, “ Centralization”;
-J. H. Mullin, “Prohibition” ; S. A. Hosinski, “The Polish Situation”; E. J. Gaffney, “The Navy.” . . . ———"
. The Barry Medal Contest.
’ The second part of the program presented in Washington Hall last Wednesday evening was the Patrick T. Barry Medal recitations. This contest was open to the students of the University, and, like the one for members of Carroll Hall, was participated in by those who had survived the preliminary contests which were held earlier in the week, a report of which appears in the local column. Unlike the Carroll contest it was very close in some respects; in the Carroll, contest the small boy had to compete with some of more mature years,— James Monaghan, for instance, would have ranked very high among contestants of his own age. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	571
In the Barry Medal Contest the speakers were ranked by the judges in the following order: Claude A. Sorg, “The Soul of the Violin”; John Devers, “The Experiences of Jimmy Butler”; Jesse H. Roth, “How the La Rue Stakes were Lost”; W. J. Moore, “Emmet’s Speech under Sentence of Death ”; John McDill Fox, “Alary Queen of Scots.” The contest between the first two was very close. Tbe difference between first and last was slight, so close was the contest as a whole. The judges were the same as for the Lyons Contest, Father MacNamara, -Sherman Steele and R. Wilbur.
The evening’s program was enlivened by the excellent work of the University orchestra.
The Lyons Medal Contest.
Last Wednesday evening the students of the University assembled in AVashington Hall to be present at the Joseph A. Lyons Medal recitations, open to members of Carroll Hall. Four competitors participated in the contest, and were ranked by the judges in the following order: Raymond Bowles, “The Yankee still Ahead”; Lester M.,Livingston, “The Polish Boy ”; G. Lucas, “Bill Mason’s, Ride”; James Monaghan, “An Old Sweetheart of Aline.” The judges were Father J. MacNamara, Sherman Steele and R. AVilbur. The contest was up to a satisfactory standard, being even better than many of those of former years. The winner, Raymond Bowles, will receive the Joseph A. Lyons gold medal.
The New Athletic Almanac.
A neat booklet containing the record of the A7arsity teams in football, baseball, basketball and track in,inter-collegiate contests for some ten years back has been compiled by one of. our athletes. It is certainly a pretty souvenir; of what the wearers of the Gold and Blue have done in athletics, and presents a picture that no loyal follower of that same Gold and Blue need blush to look upon. The same may be had for the modest sum of ten cents. See the managers of athletics in your respective Halls.. :
The Dome for 1908.
Early in the week the Dome for T908 was distributed to the subscribers, several hundred in number. AAre are getting used to the Dome idea now, and of course we are . getting more critical year by year. The result is that the editors of the Dome find their work made difficult if they would keep up with the pace set by their predecessors. To say that such a difficulty was, recognized by the men of 1908 is to call attention to the splendid triumph which they have achieved. Handicapped by the fact that the class books of other years established a standard of unusual excellence, the editors of the Dome, which has just come .from the press, had no easy task before them when they took it in hand; nevertheless they have reason to rejoice in the success attained, and can feel assured that if they have not produced a volume more attractive and more readable than the Domes of other years it would be difficult to say by how much they have failed to do so.
The book is larger than its immediate predecessor; the paper and 'presswork are better than usual; the art work represented in it is unquestionably superior, just as the master may surpass himself. T. Dart Walker has given the Dome some of his best work, . and that is saying a great deal; “Alma Alater Inspiring Her Son” is to be seen. -rather than to be praised, and he that will not see it does not need to hear it praised. T. Dart contributed several other pictures that display his power as an artist. “Prospect of ’08” is one of these, “The Senior Ball” is another.	1
The wide-awake editors saw their chance . when Alton Packard visited us a year ago, and took tribute of his peri, the sketch being a charming “N: D. Girl.” Those who know . Packard’s work need only be told that his • work for the Dome is representative of his best in pen and ink.	.	.
John Worden, Coe AIcKenna, J. Eckert,. AV. Gushing and B. Lange contributed largely to the. department sketches and cartoons and are entitled to a share in the praise that is to be showered on the artists of the_ Dome. Besides these, of course, and back of all special contributors, there is the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
572
editorial staff composed of the following: Robert Saley, editor in chief; Joseph Boyle and James Quinlan, associate editors; Frank Zink, business manager; Edward Kennedjr and John Berteling, assistant business managers; Frank Derrick, Frank Cull, Varnum Parish and Frank Maher, literary editors; Robert Bracken, athletic editor; Dominic Callicrate and Simon O’Brien, art editors.
In passing we can not but deplore the tendency to include in so excellent a performance what seems to be rather far-fetched burlesques of members of the faculty who, by their long and distinguished service and by their devotedness to the University, are deservedly held in special veneration. Perhaps one ought not to eye too curiously a production that is supposed to express the exuberant spirit of college boys, but on the other hand there are persons who, it would seem, ought not to be regarded as legitimate prey for even the all-embracing flippancy of the college boy. With these rare instances eliminated, the Dome of ’OS would be almost a model of its kind.
Important Notice.
The final examinations for preparatory students will be held June the 12th and 13th; for collegiate classes June the 15th and 16th. No special examinations before these dates will be permitted under any circumstances whatever. In cases where real necessity seems to exist students may see the Director of Studies and arrange to have their examinations on their return in September.
Classes in the Preparatory Schools resume September 11. Classes in the colleges resume September IS. It is absolutely necessary that students be on hand promptly on the date assigned for the opening of their schools. No rooms will be reserved for preparatory students after September 11, nor for collegiate students after September 18. Two per. cent will be deducted from examination marks for every class: day . missed after the date set for the resumption of classes. Under no circumstances will old students be allowed reduction of expenses for the time lost at the beginning of the school year. \	\
.	} . By Order of the President.
As Others See Us.
“Never in the history of athletics in the colleo-es of Indiana has a school in the state o
sent out a ball team which has made a record equal to that of Notre Dame on the now famous eastern trip. The Catholics	•
were always good ball players, but never	'
before has a nine from that school won such a reputation as the team of 190S.
“They started their eastern trip with a • victory over Syracuse by the score of 2 to 1. The Catholics swamped Williams 8 to 1. Then they met Dartmouth, one of the best eastern college teams, which had defeated Yale and Harvard. In this game the Catholics proved that they were a team' of the first-class, for they defeated the Easterners 8 to 3. On May 19 Notre Dame met the first defeat of the trip.
“Vermont defeated it 6 to 3. The game was marked with wrangling from start to finish. The reports come from the East that the AVesterners were too far from home and were not supposed to have a chance to win. That the Catholics had not taken a slump was provcnby the fact that they shut out Boston college on the following day 9 to 0.
“This victorious trip of the Notre Dame team means much to every college man in this state, and even in the West. For along time Easterners have looked with scorn on the western college athlete. In the spring : of 1902 Illinois, with Eungren and Stahl as a battery, went East and taught the eastern , rivals that the West was ahead in baseball.
“This year it has fallen to the lot of an Indiana college to send its team East and again teach the conceited teams of that part of the country that the Westerners can play ball. Notre Dame’s shut out of Fordham by the score of 3 to 0 proved that the Catholics are one of the fastest j fielding nines on any college diamond in	1
the country. They do not depend simply	|
on their batteries to do all the playing. |
“The Catholics have one of the fastest I and best balanced teams ever put out by a I western college. It certainly should be a	I
matter of pride to every Hoosier that a	I
college team from this state should go on I a. long, hard trip East and defeat many of I the star eastern nines. . .	.	.	I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
573
“When it comes to track athletics Not re Mb etween student and professor at Notre Dame is not doing so well. Michigan AggiesWDame, that nothing except the sincerest defeated it in a dual meet 65 5-6 to 60 1-6 W regard could be held toward the faculty, points. The records made by the Catholic^ both clerical and lay, who have done so athletes in this meet were good. A com-'5 much in adding to the pleasure of college
parison of their strength can be-made with Wabash after the triangular meet, in which the ‘Little Giants’ meet Michigan Aggies o oo
and Armour Tech.”—Heze Clark in Indianapolis Star.
The Senior Banquet.
Only once in a lifetime does a senior class hold a banquet, and in accordance with a custom of long standing the class of 1908 assembled at the Oliver Hotel, Monday, June 1, to participate in a farewell banquet. For the past months the class had been looking forward to this night in expectation of an evening of festivity and pleasure, and incidentally to meet for the last time before leaving their Alma Mater. That the occasion will be long remembered goes without saying, for everybody present enjoyed himself. and pledged that spirit of goodfellowship and kindly feeling toward everyone which will live long in the hearts of the ’08 men.
At eight o’clock the members of the class took their places at the festive board, which was gayly decorated, while the glare of manv incandescents about the room and candelabra added brilliancy to the occasion. For two hours the hall resounded with bursts of merriment.
Good-fellowship, which is one of the good fruits of college life, was the key-note of the evening. A special menu, fit for the Oliver’s choicest guests, had been prepared, while extra service was on hand, one of the Oliver’s characteristics which has made it famous the country over.
When justice had been done to the menu, Mr. Kennedy, who was chosen as the toastmaster of the evening, called upon various members of the class to respond to toasts. In a few but choice words he cleverly introduced each speaker, which proved him to be well qualified for his position.
Francis Cull was called upon to respond to the toast, “The Faculty;” Mr. Cull told of the. kindly feeling that has always existed
life. Varnum Parish was the next speaker, on the program; he responded to “Memories.” Though short, but to the point, John
the . Roach’s response to “Athletics” was well
received -by his hearers, incidentally mentioning some of the ’OS men who made themselves famous upon the track, baseball and football field. Robert Anderson was next introduced and he responded to the “Alumni,” assuring his audience that he felt the class of ’OS would do all in their power to keep in touch with their Alma . Mater in future years. “ College Friendship ” was the toast selected by Hiram McCarty, who pledged himself to be loyal to ’OS and that nothing would live longer in his memory than the friendships of his college days. John Berteling was the next speaker. He . reviewed the many drawbacks one must contend with in the publication of “The Dome,” and the work connected with such an affair. He took the occasion to thank T. Dart Walker, who was a guest of the seniors, for his services in aiding the success of the Dome. Rufus Waldorf followed, and cleverly responded to a toast to the -“Champions of the West. '
A toast always in keeping with every event was “The Ladies,” which was well handled by William Carroll. He proved himself capable for the subject, and well-fitted for the handling of such a delicate topic.
“Notre Dame” was the subject responded to*by James Flaherty and he expressed the sentiment • of the class when he spoke of the loyalty which students hold for Notre Dame. In a few brief words he traced Notre Dame’s growth from the log cabin to its present proportions, saying that its great progress was due to hard work and perseverance. ' Undoubtedly the best toast of .the evening was “The Class,” given by John Scales. Every member came in for praise or censure at his hands. With his closing remarks, in. which he hoped that the class would meet at Notre Dame for a reunion in 1915, the . curtain fell on one of the most delightful evenings the seniors spent in their college years at Notre Dame.
574
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame...........-...0 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 2=5
Athletic Notes.	Indiana.................0	1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0=4
On the 27th the Varsitj- defeated Indiana by the score of 5 to 4 in the most exciting game of the season, and incidentally tied	Two base hits—Cutshaw, 2; F. Scanlon. Double plaj'—Dubuc to Brogan. Struck out—By Johnson, 6; by Scanlon, 5. Base on balls—Off Johnson, 6; off Scanlon, 2. Hit by pitcher—Cummings, Johnson, Brogan, Daniels. Umpire—Fleager.	
the cover on the State Championship.	*	
“Dreamy” Scanlon was opposed to Johnson,	On the 29th Notre Dame trimmed Wabash	
the Indiana star, and although the down	2 to 0. Dubuc and Dobbins were the oppos-	
state school man pitched a good game, the ,	honors all came to Scanlon.	ing twirlers, and both men pitched a great game. Dubuc let the Little Giants down	
Cutshaw was the man that saved the	with two hits, one of which	was on the
day for Notre Dame. He hit for two	fluke order, and Dobbins with his slow dope	
doubles .and a single, knocked in two runs	held the Varsitv to 4. Cutshaw was a p ain	
-	in the seventh, and in the last of the ninth	the Man Behind the Bat, as	his single in
when things locked bad for the Varsity	the fifth scored McKee and	McDonough.
-	he scored. Captain Brogan from first on a slashing double to left, and scored the	Both teams put up a fast and the Varsitv pulled off two	fielding game double plays.
winning run himself a few minutes later on	In the eighth Wabash had a	ffood chance
R. Scanlon’s single to right.	to tie up the game. With one man down	
Indiana tallied first in the first round,	Dobbins singled. Diddle took his in the	
Paddock scoring on Driver’s single. In the	back. Lambert hit to Dubuc who pulled	
third Scanlon gave Indiana two runs with a bad heave to the plate.	Daniels off the bag with a bad throw, and	
The Varsity scored first in the fourth.	the bases were peopled with only one man	
Cutshaw led off with a double, stole third	down. But Starbuck hit to Ruell who threw	
and scored while Cummings dreamed with	Dobbins out at the plate. Sheller was an	
the ball in his hand. In the seventh F.	easy out from Brogan to Daniels, and it	
Scanlon began with a double, Bonham drew	was all over but the shouting. Following	
a pass and Captain Brogan sacrificed both	is tne score:	
men a base. Cutshaw scored both men	Notre Dame....	ab	R H P A E
with a single to left.	- Bonham, If	3 McKee, cf.	  3 Daniels, lb	;.	.4	0 0 0 0 0
In the ninth Bonham first up was an		X U X v U 0 013 0 0
easy out. Brogan took one on the arm,	Cutshaw, 2b.....	  4	0 13 4 1
-	and Cutshaw scored him with a double.	- Brogan, 3b	  4	0 0 0 2 0
Score:	' Notre Dame	b r h p a e Bonham, If.	4 10 112 - Brogan, 3b	;	3	114 2 1	Ruell, ss	  4 Centlivre, rf.			4 Dubuc, p..i	,	4 McDonough, c	3	0	0	16	0 0	2	0	0	0 0	10	3	1 1	0	9	2	0
		
	Totals			    33	2 4 27 17 2
Daniels, lb	  4	0 111 0 *0 -		
Cutshaw, 2b	5	13 1 4 0 Dubuc, cf.	:	3	1 0 2 10. R. Scanlon, rf.	3	0 1 1	0	0 .	McDonough, c	4	0 0 5	2	1 McKenna, ss	./	3	0 0 2 1 0 , F. Scanlon, p	  4	110	2	1	Wabash			L.	ab Diddle, ss...	  3 Lambert, 2b	  ...4 Starbuck, cf	    ;	4 Sheller, lb.........*.....	  ,.3 Adams, If.	  .-	2	R H P A E 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 14 0 0 0 11 0 1 0 014 0 0 bo 1 oo
		
'	Totals.......	33	5. 7 2713 4	Bridge, rf.	    3	0 0 1 0 0
	Bowers, c	..'.1	  ......4	0 0 3 1 0
Indiana.......	...;	b r h p a e	Faunce, 3b...;.	  2	0 0 1 .5 2
'	Thomson, c.	    3	1.0 9 1 0	Dobbins, p........	  ..........3	0 12 10
-	Cummings, ss			3	10 .1 10	*Schaffer		  -	0 10 0 0
Cartright, lb..„.........	4 0 010 0 0		
	Totals	'	    ........29	0 2 2413 5
. Stephen, cf.	 :.....			4	0 1 3 0 0		
, Paddock, If......;	  .....„....4	1 .0 1 0 0	* Schafer batted for. Bridge in the ninth. .	.	
Rau, 2b....L......„...	.,........'..........3	0	0	0	4	2 > Smith, rf.....;....	....;	.4	0	0	0	0	0 -	'	T)nvpn'	0 1 0 "1 0	Notre Dame..........	..0 0 .0 0 2	0 0 0 *=2
	Wabash...........'....;	..0 0 0 0 0	0 0 0 0=0
	, Double plays—McDonough to . Daniels, Brogan to	
	Cutshaw. to Daniels. Struck out—By . Dubuc, 7; by	
*	. -Jpkhsbn, p--:-	.......;.2 1 1 2 2. .0	Dobbins; 4. Bases on ball^-Off Dubuc,.-5; off Dobbins,	
Totals..					....31 4 3 26 9 2	1. Hit by.pitcher—McKee, ' Diddle. Umpire—Tindell.	
	■ - - ' - " ' - - ‘.	

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	575
Notre Dame won the intercollegiate track meet last Saturday with points to spare. The totals were Notre Dame, 75%; Michigan “Aggies,” 22%; Olivet, 14. Wabash was to have sent a team into the meet, but at the last minute withdrew their entries which in a measure detracted from the affair, as Notre Dame won all the way with hardly any opposition. Owing to the fact that Wabash did not send a team the meet was not as successful as it otherwise would have been, and the times and marks made in the various events were very ordinary.
The meet marked the last appearance of Capt. Keach and John Scales. Both men will graduate in June, and will hereafter be numbered among the men at Notre Dame who used to be good. McDonough and Roth upset some dope when they each picked off a first, McDonough winning the high jump and Roth getting away with the long one. Both men showed good form, the best in fact that they have ever known, and now that they have hit their stride will undoubtedly make good men for next year’s team.
O’Leary and Keach played an Alphonse and Gaston act in the 100 and 200 yard dashes. Both men insisted that the other would win, and after a certain amount of bowing and smiling they comprised by taking one each. In the sprints the Varsity made a clean sweep, O’Leary and Keach winning both places in each event. Small of M. A. C. nosed out Scales for first place in the high hurdles, but in the low Schmitt and Allen took both places. Both men-showed class over the low sticks, and will make strong men in another year.
The best races of the meet were the quarter mile and the two mile. Bignell beat out O’Leary in the quarter after the Notre Dame man appeared to have the race cinched. In the two mile, Dana and Carr fought it out all the way, Dana winning in a great finish.
Oviatt of M. A. C. was the star performer of the meet, running the half mile on a slow track in 2:03 flat. Olivet was completely out of the running, as Ampsbuler and Thomas were the only men they had who proved to be point winners. The relay race went to M. A. C. in a walk. Coach Maris sent a. green team into the race, and the “Aggies” won with ease. .	.
The meet Saturday closed a very successful track season for Notre Dame. The team won a clear title to the indoor State Championship, defeating Indiana and Wabash. ’ Lewis Institute was also defeated indoors. One defeat was suffered during the entire	•	. .
season and that was at the hands of the > Michigan “Aggies” in the first outdoor ~ meet of the season. .	-	'
Much credit is due Coach Maris and -Captain Keach for the manner in which they handled the team, and the prospects . for’ next year with "such men on hand as Dana, Devine, McDonough, Roth, Shea, . Roache, Wood, Allen and Schmitt to build a team around, it is a good bet that Coach Maris will turn out as.strong a team as Notre Dame has had in many years. \
Summaries:	-	-
120-yard high hurdles—Won by Small, M. A. C.;
Scales,- N. D., 2d. Time, 17 1-5..
One mile run—Won by Dana, N. D.; Thomas, O., 2d. . Time, 4:40.	.	.
100-yard dash—Won by Keach, N. D.; O’Leary, N. D.,	.
2d. Time, 10 3-5. Distance was 5 yards too long:
Half mile run—Won bv Oviatt, M. A. C.; Barry, 0.,	.
2d. Time, 2:03.	'
Shot put—Won by Wood, N. D.;. Barry, O., 2d. Distance, 37 feet 6 inches.	-
220-yard hurdles—Won by Schmitt, N. D.; Allen, . ■ N. D., 2d. Time, 27.	'	. .	■
Broad jump—Won by Roth, N. D.; Cripe, N. D., 2d.
Distance, 20 feet 9 inches.	.
220-yard dash—Won by O’Learv, N. D.; Keach, N. D.;	.
2d. Time, :24.	'	, . -
High jump—Won by McDonough, N. D.; Scales, N. D.,	'
2d. Height, 5 feet 5 inches.	-	-
Hammer throw—Won by Wood, N. D.; Ampsbuler,	,
0., 2d. Distance, 117 feet 11 inches.	.	~
Discus throw—Won by Ampsbuler, O.; Cripe, N. D.,	. .
2d. Distance, 101 feet 2 inches. .
Pole vault—Won byMoriarty, N. D.; McNally, N. D., 2d. Height, 9 feet.
Two mile run—Won by Dana” N. D.; Carr, M. A. C., 2d. Time, 10:08.	.	*
Quarter mile run—Won by Bignell, M. A. C.; O’Leary, N. D., 2d. Time, :53.	"	’	-
One mile relay—Won by M. A. C., Allen, Kempster, .	- .
Bignell, Oviatt. Time, 3:39.	.	■
Personals*
—Mr. John M. Quinlan, A. B.’04,. received
the degree of LL. B, at the Commencement
Exercises of the Chicago-Kent College of ’ V Law last Thursday evening. .	'	■	:	■
—Dr. John B. Berteling, B. S. ’80, M. S. . '	’. J
’84, A. M. ’89, has the distinction of being - V : ■

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
one of the four delegates-at-large from the State of Indiana to the American Medical Association.
—Jack Shea , President of ’06, has the right spirit. When the Springfield Republican tried to belittle the victories of our baseball team by insinuations of professionalism, Jack wrote a stunning letter which set the paper right. Jack may be counted on this sort of thing at the drop of the hat. He is the kind of alumnus we admire.
— In a letter recently received at the University Mr. William A. Pinkerton says, regarding the approaching Commencement: “If it is within my power to be present, I shall certaialv be there. Nothing would give me greater pleasure than to visit the dear old place where I went as a boy in I860. The college was not very old then. It is a source of great pleasure to me to see the wonderful progress your society has made since those days.”
—William D. Furry (A. B. 1900; A. M., 1904) was graduated from Johns Hopkins University with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1906. He is now the Henry E. Johnston, Dr., Scholar in the Johns Hopkins University. The University has just published “The AEsthetic Experience, Its Nature and Function in Epistemology,” by Dr. Furry. The work is a royal octavo of 176 pages, and appears as the first of the Philosophical Monographs of the Psychological Review.
—This morning witnessed the ordination to the holy priesthood, of an honored alumnus of Notre Dame, the Bev. Maurice Francis Griffin, ’04-. The ceremony was performed by the venerable Bishop McQuaid in the Cathedral at Rochester, New York. Father Griffin is a favorite among all who knew him, and Alma Mater begs his blessing and sends him her own in return. He will be with us for Alumni Day.
—The following newspaper clipping tells of the success of one of the members of the ’04 class:
“Selection of Louis M. Fetherston, a Chicago newspaper man, as secretary to President Bernard E. Sunny of the Chicago Telephone company was announced to-day. The new position carries with it the title of “subscribers’ agent,” and the duties of Mr. Fetherston will be to represent the subscribers of the company who make complaint to aidermen or city officials.
“We intend to look closely into all complaints of poor service,” said President Sunny, “and by having a man on the ground ready to investigate the many complaints now‘received by aidermen and city officials we can more quickly co-operate with the city in improving the service.”
Local Items.
— Found.— A baseball glove, a tennis racket and some keys. Apply to Brother Alphonsus.
—Professor Farrell is to be congratulated on the success he has achieved in developing talent in the line of public speaking.
—The report of the novelty games, as presented to our readers last week, contained an error with respect to the distance made by Fay Wood in the fungo hitting contest. The corrected distance is 344 feet and 6 inches.
—Professor Worden’s exhibit of the work done by the art students in his department was the best exhibit seen here in years. The work of Eckert and Wrobel is particularly praiseworthy. The art studio contains a verv large collection of meritorious work which is thoroughly representative of the large class.	.
—In the preliminary elocution contest held in the law room last Saturday evening, the speakers were placed by decision of the judges in the following- order: Claude Sorg, John Fox, Wm.. Moore, Joseph Boyle, John Devers, Anthony Rosewicz, Thomas Havican, Raymond Rath, Sylvester Hosinski, Joseph Donahue, Grover AIcCarthy, James O’Brien, William Vaughn. The judges were Fathers Quinlan and Walsh and Mr. R. Wilbur.
—T'. Dart Walker has been busily engaged for the last two weeks in preparing wash drawings of the forthcoming Convention. One of the pictures represents a street scene and is to be used as a cover for Leslie's; the other is a double-page illustration of the interior of the Convention Hall on Wabash Avenue. T. D. will soon start West to join the fleet in the Pacific for a trip round the world in the interests of Leslie's and by invitation of the U. S. Government. Before he goes, however, he will give the ’09 Dome men such assistance as he can. Assistance of the kind that Dart can give has been helpful to the ’OS men in more than one way, and the new board of editors realizes the fact.
—The Carroll Hall preliminary contests in Elocution were held in the Columbian room last Monday evening, ten speakers participating in the exercises. The judges arranged the contestants in the following order of merit: Lester Livingston, George Lucas, Raymond Bowles, James Monaghan, Carl White, George Pendergast, Joseph Schwalbe, Harold Becklinburg, Joseph Krill, John Becklinburg. In a special contest held the same evening, Jesse Roth qualified for the finals in the Barry Contest. The judges were Fathers Quinlan and Walsh and Mr. R. Wilbur.	.