Nolte ^bame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
September 15, 1944
No. 9
•	War-C/asses Begin Next Monday
•	St. Edwards Wins Field Day Plaque
•	Summer Boxing Finals Wednesday Night
^he ZNotre SDame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
The “Parade” would like to take a little time off this week to ask the students at Notre Dame a favor. We have always been famous for the way we stick together and our ability to unite behind any worthwhile movement.	--
The Dance being sponsored by the Student Council on the week-end of Oct. 6, is being put on for the benefit of all the students, and it is only fair for all the students to get behind it and make it a real success. The various committees can do a lot of work but the eventual success rests in your hands, so let’s all unite and put it over!
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON
Associate Editor, Marines
AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -	-
JIM HECK -	-
EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN	-
HARRY LEBIEN	-
ARNIE SKLARE -
- Observations
Know Your Navy The Green Banner ■	- Introducing
The College Parade Man About the Campus
Pressbox Splinters - The Periscope
The Gabby Gizmo
We ran into a little surprise this week, for as we were thumbing through the Tulane Hullabaloo what should we see but a big picture of Steve Loyacano, right on the front page. He is still playing the piano with a gusto, and has his band out of hock. His biggest worry at the present time is the Notre Dame vs. Tulane game. We just wonder what school he is worried about.
HEAVEN	*
From the Indiana Daily Student, we spotted the following .... Approximately 900 women students are being accommodated by the University housing units this semester, accord-'ing to the most recent estimates.
I wonder if there’s a Walgreen’s corner around there somewhere?
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL DICK MELLETT JOHN MORRIS TOM McNALLY JACK MILES JAMES KEENAN GEORGE DESPOT
GEORGE KRAUSER R. L. VOSBERG RONALD BYERSMITHTOM SHANAHAN JOHN FEENEY BILL LESSARD HARRY SEIMONSMA JIM FOY
GREG HALPIN ROBERT MOLNAR GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL J. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS
J. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN C. STONEBARGER BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
V-12 PROGRAM CUT
The Purdue Exponent informs us .that the university quota for navy and marine V-12 students in November will be 840, according to the Dean of Purdue. It has been estimated that the quota will be cut by approximately one-third of the present semester’s quota of 1,203 students under the V-12 program.
The students at Tulane have a new word for Physical Education these days.... Physical torture.... PT for short ___From what I am told that’s a good name for it.
It seems that pink slips or their equivalent are not common to Notre Dame. The following appeared in the Brown and White of Lehigh.... Eighty-six “valentines” were sent out through the mail to students.
A “Valentine” at Lehigh doesn’t woo a student, it informs him that at the middle of the semester he is failing a particular course. A separate one is sent for every subject. (It must be an awful waste of paper on some students.) —----------------------------------
From Purdue comes a summary of sport activities.... Sport equipment for the following can be picked up in the fieldhouse:
Twenty tennis courts, 34 softball diamonds, three basketball courts, three squash and handball courts, three rifle ; ranges, two swimming pools, 18-hole golf course, picnic room | just west of the stadium, baseball diamond.	|
They must turn out some rough athletes down there. ,
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 82
SEPTEMBER 15, 1944
NO. 9
War-Training Classes Begin Next Monday
University to Give No Correspondence Credits
Contrary to a rumor circulating about the campus of late, to the effect that the University -was soon to establish correspondence courses, a Scholastic investigation revealed that there is no truth in the alleged proposal.
The basis for the rumor, according to Scholastic findings, was probably due to the decision of University officials to make provision for the acceptance of academic credit for courses of study taken by servicemen under the auspices of the United States Armed Forces Institute, as contained in an amendment to the current University Bulletin. The regulation, in its entirety, reads as follows:
“No correspondence credits or extension of credits are accepted by the University of Notre Dame toward any degree. No credit is possible by examination merely. By way of exception to this regulation the University accepts credits for courses taken wider the supervision of the Armed Forces Institute, provided: first, that the courses meet college standards; secondly, that they fit into the program for the degree the student is seeking; and, thirdly, that the student show satisfactory knoivledge of the subjectmatter of the credit in an examination given by the University, just before or just after he registers for further courses at Notre Dame.”
ND Stars Home on Leave
Lieut, (j.g.) Joe Kuharich arrived at his home in South Bend last week to spend a two weeks furlough with his wife before leaving for an overseas assignment.
A former teammate of his also arrived home on the same day. Lieut. Joe Ruetz, marine corps fighter pilot who also is awaiting an overseas assignment.
Both of the men were guards on a Notre Dame football team of a few years back.
Capt. Finney Assumes
New Tasks in Nashville
Capt. John W. Finney, USMCR, who was formerly assistant executive officer of the V-12 unit and commanding officer of the Marine detachment here, is now settled in his new duties as liaison officer between the Marine Corps and the selective service at Nashville, Tenn.
In a letter received recently by Lt. J. J. Collins, Capt. Finney stated that he liked his duty in Tennessee although he missed Notre Dame very much. He revealed that he was sick for a few days “while Mrs. Finney straightened up the new house.”
Capt. Finney’s new address is Richard Jones Road, Nashville (4), Tenn.
Pep Rally Next Friday
A pre-season rally will be held Friday night, Sept. 22, at 7:15, in Washington Hall for the purpose of teaching the Notre Dame songs and cheers to the Freshmen and to any others who do not know them. The rally will be open to all.
The student band will be on hand, and the newly elected cheerleaders will lead the songs and cheers. A booklet of all Notre Dame songs and cheers will be distributed to all Freshmen attending the rally. This booklet was prepared by the rally committee of the Student Activities Council, and is to be kept by those receiving them. It is important that these booklets be saved because the restrictions on paper limited the number which could be printed.
TONIGHT AT 9:30 ON WSBT SALUTE TO THE G.I’s
Featuring the story of Captain Joseph Barry, C.S.C., Chaplain with the American Forces in Italy. Father Barry was formerly a teacher at the University, and prefect in St. Edward’s Hall.
The twelfth term of tuition-free Engineering, Science and Management war training classes opens Monday night, Sept. 18, at the University. Registration for all courses will be held on that night beginning at 7:00. Immediately following registration students will meet with their various instructors for organizational sessions.
35 Courses Offered
• The fall term includes a group of 35 courses in the fields of accounting and auditing, aeronautical engineering, chemistry, mathematics, drawing, drafting and tool design, electronics, electric motors, fundamental electric engineering, A.C. circuits, manpower utilization, personnel relations, industrial psychology, motion and time study,-job evaluation, industrial ■ organization, methods engineering, production process technique, structural engineering, industrial statistics, and engineering mechanics.
All courses are taught on. a college level and are open to men and women who have been graduated from ’ high school and who are employed or employable in war industry, either locally or in surrounding areas. In certain instances equivalent industrial experience will suffice for the ordinarily required high school graduation.
Over 7.000 Trained
Since the spring of 1940, when the first series of Defense Training classes was conducted on the campus, over 7,000 students from more than 150 industries have participated in 250 courses. Special courses have likewise been conducted in individual war plants requesting them for their own employees. Each course embraces a total of at least 45 hours spread over a period of 15 weeks. The teaching staff is comprised of members of the Notre Dame faculty and competent men of industry who conduct both the lecture and laboratory- periods. Various -industrial problems presented by the individual students, are worked out in class .whenever possible.
(Continued on page 18)
3
St. Ed's "A.C." Sweeps Civilian Field Day: Fr. O'Donnell Awards Plaque to Winners
Highlighting the activities of Sunday’s Student Council sponsored Field Day, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, presented the Field Day Plaque to St. Edward’s Hall, represented by Joe Delia, hall captain, Sunday night in the Engineering building auditorium.
With Hall spirit at a high point, St. Ed’s swept the field with ten firsts, including all three team events for a total of 80 points. Breen-Phillips was second with 42, followed closely by Carroll with 40. Trailing was Sorin with 18 points.
Sparking the St. Ed’s team was Rolando Duarte who won first places in the running broad jump and the standing broad jump, and a third in the high jump for a total of 11 points. The team from old St. Ed’s “A.C.” also managed to garner some 30 points by winning first in the three team events, softball, tug-o-war, and the swimming relay.
McDermott—Phomp of the Day-
In the widely publicized Phomp race, creation of publicity chairman, Robert Riordan, Walter McDermott, Sorin, came from behind when Donze, B-P, who was second, was disqualified after reaching the half-way mark. In a blazing finish, “Phomp” McDermott gained for- Sorin her only first, surprising the spectators with his agility in .balancing an egg on the end of a spoon in his mouth and at the same time balancing a glass of water on his back as he crawled the distance backwards. McDuffee, Carroll, came in third. -	_
Starting the afternoon’s festivities in Cartier Field, three softball games played under special rules resulted in St. Ed’s taking first, Sorin second, and Carroll coming in third.
One of the outstanding events of the afternoon was the bicycle race which was won by Redmond of Carroll, with Johnson, Carroll, second, and Cianchetti, St. Ed’s third. The only injury of the afternoon -was sustained by Nick Comisa of Sorin when he took a spill ro.unding the first turn in the bike race.
St Ed's Strong Men
In the tug-o’-war, the St. Ed’s boys qualified by pulling a Sorin aggregation with comparative ease, then won from a Breen-Phillips team.
At St. Joe Lake, St. Ed’s showed themselves as having a well rounded team by taking two of the three water events, including the sweatshirt swimming relay.
The events of the day were well
4
well handled by Richard Ames, under whose direction the schedule was carried out. It was through Mr. Ames’ efforts that the track and field events were carried out without a hitch. Much credit is also due the other members of the committee—Earle Pye for the signs which did much to make the day the success that it was, and to Robert Riordan, Student Council secretary, and chairman of the'Field Day publicity, through whose efforts much of the preliminary work of organization was done.
Fr. Kehoe Helps Council
It was with the help of Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, that the Student Council was able to sponsor this day of civilian activities, and the success of the day is due also in part to his efforts in securing University facilities and the awards for the winners.
The committee relied to a great extent on the advice and suggestions of the Physical Education Department, headed by Mr. John Scannell, to assure proper handling of the day’s activities.
This Field Day was the first in a series of civilian campus activities sponsored by the Student Council for the entertainment and participation of the civilian student body. The success of the day will serve as encouragement to the Student Council members to do their utmost to provide more and better civilian activities on the campus. The next major undertaking of the Student Council will be the Civilian Week-end, scheduled for Oct. 6 and 7.
Complete List of Winners
Results of the events were as follows:
Softball: St. Edward’s, Sorin, Carroll.
Three-legged race: Friday and Donze, Breen-Phillips ; Agnone and Cianchetti St. Ed's: Owens and Rittiner, Breen-Phillips.
Football Throw: O’Brien, St. Ed’s: Warrick, Carroll: Owens, Breen-Phillips.
Baseball Throw: Guthrie, Breen-Phillips ; Welch, ’ St. Ed’s: Redmond, Carroll.
Medicine Ball Throw: Angsman, St. Ed’s; Beaul-lier, Breen-Phillips, Welch, St. Ed’s.
Running Broad Jump: Duarte, St. Ed’s; Reardon, Carroll: Skillare, Breen-Phillips.
Bicycle Race: Redmond, Carroll; Johnson, Carroll, Cianchetti. St. Ed’s.
Barrel Boxing: Sanders, St Ed’s; DeLia. St Ed’s: Stefko. Breen-Phillips.
High Jump: Hull, Breen Phillips; McConville, Carroll; Duarte, St Ed’s.
60 Yard Dash: Higgins, St. Ed’s; Angsman. St. Ed’s.
Standing Broad Jump: Duarte, St. Ed’s; (Tie for second) Cleary, Carroll; and Freese, Breen Phillips.
Sack Race: Craig, Carroll: Zabrecky, Carroll; McDermott Sorin. .
Tug-o’-War: St Ed’s; Breen-Phillips.
(Continued on page 18)
Venner Ping-Pong Winner
Recently a tournament was held in Breen-Phillips hall to determine the ping-pong champ of Breen-Phillips. Of course everyone thought that he was pretty good; so here were many entries in both the singles and doubles.
Matches were soon arranged and playing got under way. As the games progressed competition became very keen. When the semi-finals came up only Ernie Schroer, Tom Dorre, Frank Venner and “Doc” Glaser were left.
In the final match some close games were played but Frank Venner edged out “Doc” Glaser by the score of 3-2. The scores of the final match were: 1921, 18-21, 21-13, 21-11, 21-8.
Anyone witnessing the finals of the doubles-matches saw plenty of fast action and excitement; Frank Venner and “Doc” Glaser took the last match from George Stefko and Floyd Lehay by the score of 3-1.—Ron Byersmith
"One Man Too Many"!
Company officers of Company K are still wondering who the strange person was who disrupted their formations on a recent Sunday morning. With the facts now disclosed, the culprit appears to be Lorin “Kentucky” Kennemer, Co. I.
On the weekend when Kennemer’s company was on leave, the unfortunate Lorin had no place to go, so he gave his leave address as Notre Dame. When it came time for chow, however, he had no company with which to march.
Therefore, he merely fell in at the end of one of Company K’s squads. When the squad leader made the report, he announced, “One man too many, sir.” Up the chain of command went the report, until it reached the commander. The latter still doesn’t believe it.
❖ ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	4* 4*
❖ ❖ ❖	NOTICE	❖
4* Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, prefect 4* ❖ of discipline, announced last week 4* 4* that since summer is over, proper ❖ attire must be worn at meals. 4* 4‘ Therefore, beginning Monday, Sep- *t* 4* tember 18th, all civilians must be ❖ 4* dressed properly. That is, a shirt 4» 4* with a collar attached must be 4* ❖ worn, not a ”T" shirt, sweat shirt, 4» ❖ or sweater, but a respectable ev- 4» ❖ eryday shirt. This rule will be en- 4» $ forced as all those taking meal 4* 4* tickets will be instructed to refuse 4* 4* service to anyone not properly 4* dressed.	- Q
4>4»**4»**^****4>«4>4‘*
Student Council Sponsors N. D. Blood Donor Drive
The drive for donors for the Red Cross Blood bank for Oct. 3 to 13, is progressing favorably, according to Joe Delia, chairman of the Student Council committee in charge of the drive. Despite numerous obstacles, hall representatives are securing registrations for contributions of blood when the Mobile Unit arrives in South Bend from Chicago.
The drive is being conducted among civilian students and is limited to those over 18. All registrants between 18 and 21 must send their application blanks home for a parental release before they will be allowed to donate their blood. Blanks are available from hall representatives in each hall, and at the prefect of discipline’s office.
The operation of taking blood from a donor is painless, and usually has no ill after-effects. The blood is replaced within two hours in most cases.
The need for this plasma is evidenced in daily news reports from the fighting fronts stating that many wounded suffering from loss of blood, shock, and burns, have been saved principally through the use of blood plasma gathered by the Red Cross through •hein donor service from the home front.
This is a real opportunity for the civilian students of Notre Dame to do something for the men on the fighting front—let’s put the drive over 100%.
Dean L. H. Baldinger Announces Meeting
Dr. L. H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science has announced a general meeting of pre-medical students, both civilian and service, for Tuesday afternoon, Sept. 19 at 4:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. At this meeting he will discuss the general principles of the symposium on premedical education held at the A.A.A.S. meeting in Cleveland on Thursday, September 14.
•** ••• ***
❖ The V-12 Unit wishes to extend a ❖ cordial invitation to the members of
❖ the faculty of the University to attend *2* ❖ the V-12 regimental review to be ♦2* •> held this Saturday, Sept. 16. at 3 "C* ❖ o'clock. Saturday's review will be ❖ ❖ the third held during the current se-
<• mester, and it is hoped that both the ❖ ❖ lay and clerical members of the fac- *2* ❖ ulty and their guests will be in at- ❖ ❖ tendance.
Photography Contest Judges Announced;
Seven Days Remain to Enter Pictures
In this issue the SCHOLASTIC announces not only the system of judging which will be used in considering entries in the SCHOLASTIC Photography Contest, but also the men who have agreed to conduct the various phases of that judging. Winners will be selected after a dual judging has taken place; that is, there will be two judgings before any winners will be chosen.
The first, or preliminary judging will be handled by three men, each one judging a separate division of entries. When the top six in each division have been chosen, these eighteen pictures will be sent to be considered by the fourth, or final, judge. His decision will be more objective because of the fact that he has seen none of the entries prior to their final judging by himself. His decision will reveal the winners and runners-up in each division, and the ones which will be on exhibition during the salon to be held in the Library.
Three South Bend photographers have consented to be the preliminary judges, and each is well qualified in the particular field which he will judge. C. D. Rex of the Bagby Studio will preside over the campus shot division. His past experience in photographic work fits him well for his job, as does his extensive experience in doing official work for the University yearbook and for the Naval units stationed on the campus fit him with a thoroughgoing knowledge of the Notre Dame campus. Mr. Rex is known in South Bend and advertising circles as a well-qualified commercial photographer, one of the more exacting of the photography field’s divisions.
Handling the still life and portrait division will be L. G. Tomsett of the Priddy Studio. Mr. Tomsett has made a specialty of stills, and his success in this field is attested to by the positions he holds in two photographic societies. He is vice-president of the Indiana Photographers’ Association, and is also a member of the Royal Photographers’ Association of Great Britain.
Dealing with the field which he knows best is D. A. Murphy, photographer for the South Bend Tribune. Since all his experience in the field of photography has been in newspaper work, Mr. Murphy has dealt mostly with action pictures of all types and descriptions. Hence, what could be better than to have him judge the action and sports
division of the entries? Thus three of the most outstanding photographers in South Bend have lent their services to judge the field of the SCHOLASTIC Photography Contest which they know best. And thus the entrants are assured of fair and competent treatment of their entries.
When interviewed this week, the Photography Contest Chairman warned:
“All arrangements are now complete. These three men are to be the judges. The rules have been printed in a previous edition of the SCHOLASTIC, and are posted on a bulletin board in every hall on the campus.
“Only seven more days are left in which to enter that prospective prizewinner! You can’t win unless you enter a picture. And you can’t have a chance at that cash, you can’t see your picture in print in the SCHOLASTIC, you can’t see your picture a part of the salon, unless you get busy right now and enter it at the Publications Office on the main floor of the Main Building. Judges of the Finals will be announced next week.”
More Notre Dome Men Casualties in War
The latest reports on Notre Dame casualties in the war reveal the deaths of the following:
2nd Lt. Donald E. Dixon, US-MC, ex ’34,- 3148 Griest Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio.
120^ Lt. Richard J. Cotter, ex ’43, Bay Shore, New York, killed
over Germany.
»Lt. Robert J. Simonds, ex. '38, 1338 Belmont Ave., South Bend, Ind., killed in a training accident at Fort Bennings, Ga. Lt. Simonds was a flight instructor at Fort Bennings.
Distribute Service Cards To Overseas Veterans
Distributed among men of the V-12 unit this week were service cards prepared by officials of the unit, whereby they can determine the amount of overseas service represented on the campus.
The cards will form the basis of a poll, now being conducted. Required is information as to the number of months of service which the seaman or marine had in a particular area and-any citations he received.
5
NROTC Ball, with Concommitant Atmosphere of Gaiety. Heads Week-End of Oct. 6-7-8
A gala week-end of fun and festivity looms large for the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps who will hold their semester Naval Ball, Friday, October 6.
With the Ball as a prelude to a two-day spree of entertainment, there will also be a pep rally, a football game, and a victory dance to help complete the extravaganza.
Co-Chairmen for the affair are Herb Daiker and Bill Grant, who have adopted as their creed, “It’s the best Ball that the • RO will ever have.” Daiker, who served on the committees of the past events, brings his experience to bear on the October renewal. The Service Center, scene of the big night’s activity, will be decked out in a most elaborate setting, surpassing all past settings, but the theme is still a secret of the committee.
Dave Champion and Ed Stroot, who are working out the miscellaneous problems, have come across a bright idea for the trail of events and their private ingenuity for the souvenir program will be a boon to the doings. George Finn, negotiating for the band, promises the music will be good, in fact, it’ll be the best dancing that has been around the local area for quite a spell.	•
Breaking Precedent
The Ball-goers of the past, who generally attend the football game on the following day, found themselves in the end zone seats—the spot where all the experts sit and dope out the plays. But John Caron, chairman of special events, has arranged a different set-up for the
Service Center will be scene of 6th NROTC Ball
Tulane-Notre Dame game that follows on Saturday. The RO and their dates will be occupying the seats on the East side of the field, between the 40 and 50 yard line, where the action is the greatest.
Bill Waddington completes the list of chairmen in the capacity of publicity.’
The Pep Rally, a must for every Notre Dame rooter, will commence at 7:00 p.m. in order to accommodate the ROs and their female guests .who are billed to appear at the dance at 9:00 p.m. After four hours of floating on a cloud- with a lovely adorable within the clutches, the ROs will retire to the Walsh Hall barracks awaiting Saturday’s clash between Tulane’s “Green Wave” and Notre Dame’s “Fighting Irish.”
Arter the game on Saturday afternoon, the entire campus will be invited to the Victory Dance sponsored by the Student Council at the Indiana Club. Tickets for the post-game celebration can be purchased at the door that evening—that is, if something else more alluring doesn’t appear on the social calendar for the night.	<
' -	Sunday Good-Byes
For the trainees who import their dates from near and far, it will be a day of fond farewells. The whole day is without definite plan so that Joes and Janes can get in the proper mood for their au revoirs, but nevertheless, the assimilation will still produce a common opinion by all participants alike—“it was certainly a grand and glorious week-end.”
Ship's Service Opens;
Badin Hall Site of Store
Notre Dame’s new ship’s service opened its doors for the first time at 1100 on Wednesday and prepared itself foi' the task of caring for certain needs of the service men and women stationed on the campus. The service is located on the main floor of Badin hall, in the section previously occupied by the Navy disbursing office.
Under the direction of Lt. (jg) Jack A. Jacoby, the ship’s service will be open exclusively to midshipmen, ship’s company, V-12 students, R.O.T.C., and other members of the armed forces. Othei- naval personnel to be attached to this department are Sp 3/c Meeker and SK 3/c Burchette.
On Wednesday the store began business operations. The fountain will be completed within the near future.
During the initial week of its operation, the ship’s service department will maintain business hours from 1100 to 1800. “It is anticipated,” stated Lt. Jacoby, “that after the first week the hours will be 1100 until 2200.”
In commenting upon the structure of the new ship’s service, Lt. Jacoby added that “the department has been laid out for easy shopping, and merchandise will be priced at the minimum necessary for a sound business operation and will be kept at the lowest possible minimum consistent with that policy. A fountain has been provided and the same minimum pricing policy will be adhered to.”
At the present time, the ship’s service department consists of four clerks, two soda fountain clerks, and six office help. In line with the policy of the department to employ wives of servicemen wherever possible, a minimum of naval personnel have been assigned for regular duty. It is anticipated that station personnel will be employed after hours as store clerks and soda fountain clerks.
Included among the major classifications of merchandise which will be carried in the department are smoking gear, candies, toiletries, clothing, notions, magazines, luggage, jewelry, stationery, books, ice cream and cakes.
In placing credit for the excellent cooperation received in setting the store in operation, Lt. Jacoby acknowledged the aid of Capt. J. R. Barry, commanding officer; Comdr. Waage, executive officer; Lt. Tefft, first lieutenant; Lt. Bell; Lt. Covington; Lt. Brown; Lieut, (jg) Anne Warden; and the battalion commanders. He gave special credit to Capt. Williams, U. S. Army, Camp Grant, Ill.; Midshipman Steigerwalt; Sp 3/c Meeker; SK 3/c Burchette; and Mrs. O. J. Miller.—Al Broten
6
Chuck Cavallo to Play for Student Council Autumn Ball; Bids Go on Sale Today
BY BOB O'TOOLE
Mechanicals Meet
The mechanical engineering students held a regular business meeting last Wednesday in their Engineering Building third-floor “suite.”
“The Student Council Autumn Ball will feature the music of Chuck Cavallo and his band,” General Chairman Jim Casey announced. The week-end will be a success in every way.
For those who wish to reserve rooms in approved houses, Bob has a list at his disposal. All those who wish to reserve such rooms can get the addresses and telephone numbers from Bob in his room 339 Sorin, then take it from there.
As announced last week, there will be a Victory Dance Saturday night at the Indiana Club. This affair, sponsored by St. Ed’s Hall, will be open to all on campus. Bids, priced at $1.20, will go on sale at a date to be announced in the Scholastic.
Watch your hall bulletin board for further details.
Mr. Egry, faculty advisor of the group, attended this meeting, and showed the animated movie: “The Theory of Flight.” Invited to the latter part of the meeting for purposes of seeing this movie were members of the Aero club.
“Theory of Flight” was enjoyed by all, especially since it shows in simplest terms just what keeps a plane flying. Even some of the Aeros understood it.
In two years since it quit making automobiles the automotive industry has delivered more than $14,000,000,000 worth of war goods.—Bits Out of Life
Signing of the band climaxed a busy week of work for Music Chairman Tony Bristol. In the name of ths council Casey congratulated Bristol for getting a smooth playing outfit for the low price necessary to stay within the budget. Because of the low price of the week-end it was impossible to sign a name band.
Chuck Cavallo leads an eleven piece band which has confined its efforts to Chicago until recently. Made up of men who formerly played with name bands, its members are all employees of the Douglas Aircraft Plant in Chicago. The band features a fine vocalist and smooth music.
Bids for the week-end will go on sale today. Dick Ames, Arts senior who is head of the Bid Committee, this week ‘ outlined his plans and named some of his committee members. This afternoon bids are in the hands of Joe Cannova, in Breen-Phillips, Joe DeLia and John Castelli in St. Ed’s, and Dick Sadowski in Sorin.
Football tickets for the Tulane game will be in the hands of “Buzz” Hassett. Students who purchase bids in advance of Sept. 25 will profit by so doing, for the early birds will get the choice of seats in the section set aside for Ballgoers and their guests. Details on football tickets distribution will be announced in the coming issues of the Scholastic.
Housing Chairman Robert Riordan warns all those who intend to import dates for the week-end that hotel reservations must be made well in advance. The football game Saturday will draw many out-of-town customers to South Bend. Requests for reservations must be in written form, as stipulated by the hotel managers, and such letters will be acknowledged by the hotels.
Schedule of Summer Semester Examinations
The examinations for this summer semester of 1944 will be held in all colleges and the graduate school of the University on the Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of October 19 to 25, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at	will be	examined at		Date	
8:00 on Monday	8:00	on	Friday	October	20
9:00 on Monday	8:00	on	Tuesday	October	24
10:00 on Monday	10:00	on	Friday	October	20
11:00 on Monday	10:00	on	Tuesday	October	24
1:15 on Monday	1:15	on	Friday	October	20
2:15 on Monday	1:15	on	Monday	October	23
3:15 on Monday	3:15	on	Friday	October	20
4:15 on any day	10:00	on	Saturday	October	21
Classes taught at	will be	examined at		Date	
8:00 on Tuesday	8:00	on	Thursday	October	19
9:00 on Tuesday	8:00	on	Wednesday	October	25
10:00 on Tuesday	10:00	on	Thursday	October	19
11:00 on Tuesday	10:00	on	Wednesday	October	25
1:15 on Tuesday	1:15	on	Tuesday	October	24
2:15 on Tuesday	3:15	on	Monday	October	23
3:15 on Tuesday	3:15	on	Tuesday	October	24
All classes in Mathematic (Except Math. B, 8n,	s				
and 9n) All Classes in Physics	9:00	on	Monday	October	23
A, 21, 22, 25, and 26 Classes in Naval	2:00	on	Thursday	October	19
Organization Any class taught after ‘	8:00	oh	Saturday	October	21
5:00 p.m.	7:00 p.m. on Friday			October	20
Any examination outside the time designated for it the foregoing schedule will not be valid for credit. — The period of each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes. — “Monday” in the first column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and “Tuesday” means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. — Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.
7
WHAT'S WHAT 'N "M"
Poor Premo! Was it just for spite that the EPD boys waxed one deck with metal polish? Or are they all that dumb in Company “M?” Supply Corps, you know.
Why does “our boy” Stump-tion always bark when called hydrant?
Tugboat Mueller came aboard woefully weeping one night. When asked what was wrong he told of the sad parting with his 300 pound WAC cargo. It seems she went overseas and he is now looking for a new believe-it-or-not!
Maybe “Asiatic” Fields can help Mueller. Fields’ girl, “Gravel” Gerty, left him when, after an evening of listening to Fields explain the obstacle course, she told him to feel her soft silky hair. He patted her on the cheek by mistake. Why don’t you buy her a jar of Burma Shave, Fields? Or do you like the SMC?
Company Commander Bearman ate peaches all week-end, they say. I guess Hagstrom was eating tomatoes. Cherche La Femme.
Leo Phillips walking down the street with a girl called_oh well, what’s in a name? Look at the name they gave to Studs Langenfeld.
“Two man sub” Gunn, J. Davids and “Late again” Brown (BTO), playing “Bogart on the Sahara” at Michigan City and riding in a limousine. “But you should have been in that first car, and the second, and the third.... oh, you talk about it Gunn, I have something I must do,” said Brown. Where is Davids? He’s left holding the bag!
TO COMPANY M
We lost the meet. By a right oblique, And we send you our very best wishes. But next time it’s done, You’ll find we have won, In fact when you get right down to it, You guys ain’t got a chance!
Above happy thoughts by Ed Brown ❖
MARINES CAN DRILL (or) So What?
Every day in math class, Poor teacher is besot.
The twenty swabbies are passin’ The five marines are not.	'
But let the teacher make a move,
To even slightly disapprove, At once a voice so very shrill Cries: “Remember... marines can drill!”
I once took a course in physics, We sailors all got through.
But to the marines it was mystics, Next semester they’ll start anerv.
But comes the cry, “You don’t foresee That turning us in is nil.
What if our average is thirty-three.
You forget: “Marines can drill!”
But noiv at last a list appears, Deficiency they call it.
Sure a lot of swabbies are there, But half the marines are on it.
Now if half the marines are flunking a course
It certainly shows something’s ill.
But tell a gyrene, and it’ll be a source Of his face becoming cloudy and chill.
You seem to forget, he haughtily says: “Marines_________can... drill!”
QUOTATION OF THE WEEK
“Don’t be a schloomp.... get a date for the Regimental Ball.”
Frankly, young man—I don't care what kind of uniform you mustered in at N. D!!
HAPPENING OF THE WEEK
Which Pains Us, Most Deeply
The RO’s have to take courses in math, physics and drawing. It has been decided to award each of the blighted individuals with one free T.S. card punch. All interested see the Chaplain.
COMPANY ”E"
“Bun” Middleton has been adopted as the pin up boy of one of our many canine friends who have swarmed over the station within the last weeks. He claims to have lost faith in the dog as man’s best friend.
Speaking of dogs, all the bloodhounds are jealous of Seaman Malinclsrodt’s crooning and guitar playing.
According to Bill Fahrner the right guide is a company officer. (Note the sign above his door).
Grant Mackay volunteered (?) to spend Saturday night swabbing down the decks in Dillon Hall.
What squad gets cleaning detail during inspection, Jim?
It is rumored that Cliff Marks is going to get a picture of his girl for his desk. Think she will give you one Cliff?
HELLO ROCK
One of the more pleasant things that happen around Notre Dame in the fall is the reopening of St. Mary’s College. Despite rumors that originate chiefly in . the civilian halls, the “Rock” as the school is endearingly called, remains a definite must for a visit while you are at Notre. Dame.
The best time to do this .is when one of the frequent mixers are held.
Although it is not true that you can tell a St. Mary’s girl by the haunted look in her eyes, they do give themselves away occasionally by squealing when a man is sighted. This brings memories of a little red-headed freshman waiting in the South Shore station last Sunday. Wonder if she remembers?
Brother of Former N.D.
Tennis Stars Killed
Jack Evert, veteran paratrooper- and cne of the four tennis-playing Evert brothers, was killed in action in France shortly after the Normandy invasion.
Jack was the brother of Jimmy and Jerry Evert,, prominent Notre Dame tennis players of the last two years. Jimmy was ranked number 11 nationally while playing on the Notre Dame. team in 1943, after which he left to join the service. Jerry was number 2, on Notre Dame’s unbeaten tennis team of last spring. .
College of Arts and Letters Maintains Cultural Aspects Even in Wartime
BY ROBERT MOLNAR
The College of Arts and Letters, under the deanship of Father Francis P. Cavanaugh, is historically the oldest of the colleges constituting the undergraduate school of the University, as is true in most universities. Until 1865 its program of courses, which included the courses in science, was the only one offered to students at Notre Dame. The College of
Arts and Letters continued to offer a program of cultural courses. The distinguishing characteristic of the college of liberal arts is the absence of professional specialization. Its aim is to provide a broad cultural background for whatever professional study or life work the student may later decide upon.
At the present time there are about 400 students enrolled in the A.B. course, and this includes 200 service men. According to Father Cavanaugh, this number should increase at the beginning of next semester. The most common major among the students in the A.B. school is philosophy. Other common majors are economics, politics, sociology, journalism, and English.
The first two years of the program, in particular, may be thought of as a rounding-out of the fundamental education begun in high school; and while the student may spend in his last two years considerable time in some one department of his choice, he nevertheless continues the study of several subjects of general educational value. The professional work of certain special departments, moreover, is of its nature closely related to the more fundamental subjects of philosophy, English, and the social sciences. For the last two years of this course, the student is required to do some specialization in a department of his choice. And so, while he is acquiring broad backgrounds and maturity in philosophy, language, literature, and the social sciences, he may get in his chosen major field of study valuable preparation for a useful career.
In accordance with the deans of commerce and law, Father Cavanaugh has suggested the institution of a new ma
jor for the servicemen which will consist of governmental .work. There is another course which is being worked on, and this will be open to boys who have completed only two years of high school. These students would read the classics instead of taking the regular courses; and at the completion of the course, they would receive the degree of Associates of Art. This plan is only being discussed at the present time, and nothing definite has been planned.
The primary aim of the courses offered in the College of Arts and Letters is mental excellence. In achieving this objective, the student develops a condition and quality of mind that qualifies him
Rev. F. P. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Ph. D.
fundamentally for higher human life in the physical, the spiritual, the social, the aesthetic, or the workday world. By such a course he prepares himself to deal intelligently with the various fundamental situations in life and achieves, as Cardinal Newman and other great educators observed an education that is far higher, even in the scale of utility, than what is commonly termed a practical education.
Before the establishment of deans for the individual colleges, the entire group was under the leadership of one man, Rev. James A. Burns, who was president of the colleges. In the early twenties, the offices of the deans were established; and about the same time, the elective system of subjects came into effect.
In these times of technological - war, the high officials of the government are strongly reaffirming the need for broad and sound education. The Navy Department in the recent establishment of a department of naval science and tactics within the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame has given high endorsement to the liberal curriculum. Secretary of War Stimson, in emphasizing the need of such specialized qualifications as desirable in the students, declares that he would not “urge the elimination of any particular subject which may be properly a part of higher education, provided it increases a man’s ability to think clearly, to work accurately, and to understand better the world in which he lives.” These purposes have always been prominent as main objections in the College of Arts and Letters at the University.
Knights of Columbus Meet on Wednesday
The Notre Dame Council of Knights of Columbus held the first of a series of
social meetings last Wednesday night in
in the Law Auditorium, with an evening of football movies and refreshments.
This is a new type of meeting for the Knights as no business was conducted,
and the evening was devoted to provid
ing a good ttime for all members in attendance.
Highlighting the evening’s entertainment was a presentation of a complete movie of the Notre Dame vs. Great Lakes game of 1943. Following the show, refreshments were served to those present.
According to Grand Knight Tim Cotter, these social meetings will continue to be a practice of the local council, in order to promote interest in K. of C. meetings in the future.-	*
On Wednesday, Sept. 27, a regular business meeting will be held at 7:30 in the Law Building, and plans for a campus membership drive will be laid out. It is important that all members attend this meeting in order to assure the success of the membership drive which is so vital to the continuance of a Notre Dame Council.
Since.rationing came into vogue one restaurant put up a sign: “Please be nice to our waitresses; it’s easy to get customers.”—Bits Out of Life
•
Ten Game Billing For Fighting Irish Features Dual-Role of "Underdog" and "Favorite"
SPCI
By SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND "Scholastic" Sports Writer
That magic word “football” which takes on especial connotation when mentioned in terms of football at Notre Dame has once again superseded all others in the thoughts of sports-minded America. Here at Notre Dame thoughts of football are synonymous with the mention of school spirit but it is not until September shows up on the calendar and summer practice sessions end, that the gridiron enthusiasm which has lain dormant in the subconscious for eight months, really manifests itself.
It is fitting that an analysis be made as to the outlook in this, the football hub of America; an expression of the impressions and expectations which we who comprise the spirit of Notre Dame have of those who display it on sportland’s greatest fields of competition.
Notre Dame, never known to meet the soft touch challenges to its gridiron supremacy, finds itself again with one of the nation’s most difficult schedules.
In Army, it faces the best-equipped team in wartime circles. The Army backfield, headed by Sesenbaugher, Troxell, Minor, Davis, and Anderson, plus a galaxy of other fleet experienced runners, would be the fulfillment of even a peacetime coach’s dream.
In the Naval Academy, Notre Dame faces what early bird predictors call the standout of the East, if not the nation, with most of last years’ impenetrable forward wall returning.
To close the season, Notre Dame will carry memories of shattered glory against highly touted Great Lakes, consistently the midwest’s outstanding service eleven.
These are the roughest points of the schedule which features arch-rival Northwestern; Tulane and Georgia Tech, traditional southern powerhouses; Dartmouth; Pitt; Illinois; and Wisconsin.
This season has started with unrest. A complete turnover has taken place in the coaching statf and the personnel has been riddled by wartime demands, but early sessions have again shown indication of a representatively powerful team.
The Notre Dame tradition for great ends, enveloping such standout AllAmericans as Milner, Sweeney, Brown, Kerr, Dove, Kovatch, and Yonaker of
10
the past decade, could very well be continued by Skoglund and O’Connor of the present crop. O’Connor, in particular, lacks only experience of all the attributes of a fine all-around end.
Sullivan and Adams have solved the tackle problem completely. Both big and aggressive, these two should do a very capable job of deciding who slants between end and guard this season.
At guard, Pat Filley, serving his second term as captain and with one allAmerican recognition already accorded him, will be the bulwark of the line' as well as outstanding among the nation’s guards.
Combining blinding speed with relentless drive right halfback Kelly has already been proved tops among halfbacks. When Kelly departs in midseason, Elmer Angsman, whose shifty, rapid style of running is reminiscent of Creighton Miller, should cany on very well. Flipping from the keystone of the “T” at quarterback will be Joe Gaspa-rella who is fast becoming a star in his own right in a position immortalized by Bertelli and Lujack.
The opening gun for the Pitt fracas on September 30 should mark the beginning of another golden chapter in the successful story of football at Notre Dame.
Student Council Plans
Civilian Golf Tourney
According to plans just formulated, the Student Council will.sponsor a golf tournament for civilian students, be- -ginning the qualifying rounds next Monday, and continuing through Friday. Scores are to be turned in after matches, next week, in a box conveniently placed for this purpose in the golf shop.
The tournament will be run in flights, thus giving all entrants an adequate opportunity to win a prize in the particular flight in which he enters. The contest is to be run on an inter-hall basis, with prizes going to individual low scorers, and to the hall winning the most points.
Next week’s issue of SCHOLASTIC will contain particulars as to competitive play, time of matches, etc. Only qualifying rounds are to be run off this coming week from Monday through Friday.
Interhall Boxing Finale Aiming for Ring F n
BY JAC1 "Scholastic
Ic<
>pc
All in Fine Shape
While almost 1,000 Happy-Hour goers yelled support to their favorites, 14 student-boxers emerged from the semi-finals of the Interhall Boxing Show, Wednesday evening, Sept. 13, in the fieldhouse. The championship bouts are scheduled for the same rendezvous Wednesday
J c t f V s I 3
c a o s t c
I J h fl
Uh! But I can't take it . . .	-
night, Sept. 20, with the first match billed for 7:30 p.m. There will be a charge of 25 cents for trainees and civilian students. The proceeds of the event will go to the Notre Dame V-12 welfare fund.	.
J
S
S
o ti b
Seven Navy V-12 students, a pair o
JF
51
. V
S'
V
V
127 lb. Tim Crowe (Alumr 135 lb. Tom Nowlen (Alumni
145 lb. Lou Kontros (Zahn
155 lb. Bob Blair (Cav-Mai 165 lb. Ralph Deem (Alumni 175 lb. Dick Gorman (Carrol! Heavy wt John Trave (Carroll
Summer Box
Wednesda
Referees: George Nate, , Judges: William A. Lui ; r-Timer: Cecil A. Wallac
S 1 fl - i
Finds Fourteen mors Wednesday Nite
IcGRANE
Sports Writer
Marines from Cavanaugh, two NROTC cadets and a trio of civilians will pit their skill to form the finals card. Of the finalists, only one was a Bengal Bouts winner last spring, the latter event sponsored by SCHOLASTIC for charity. Bob Blair, a cool, calm, and collected Marine will be trying for his second ring championship within the year, having annexed the 155 lb. crown in the Ben-gals. Ernie Rauscher, 127 pounder from Sorin, was a runner-up in the spring extravaganza but lost to Gene Sterrett of St. Ed’s in last Wednesday’s semi-finals. Louis Kontros, Tom Nowlen, and Frank Roberts were also on the Bengals roll of honor but failed to gain a place in the finals. They will be slugging for their respective class belts, however, Wednesday. Bill Seeburg- and Jim Leahy, both former Bengal fisticuffers lost their semi-final pairings in the interhall show.
Semi-Finals Results
ch a
\’ nt re
127 lb. — Tim Crowe, Alumni beat Jim Madden, Dillon (3). Gene Sterrett, St. Ed’s decisioned Ernie Rauscher, Sorin (3).
135 lb. — Tom Nowlen, Alumni t.k.-o’d Vance Maloy, Dillon (3). Jack Hasten, Walsh, won over John Archer, Cav-Navy (3).
145 lb. — Lou Kontros, Zahm, t.k.o’d (Continued on page 17)
x
Ja
mi
im tun I ar
te, iA ur
ac
r g •
uu
oil a oil
I Finals Card
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
vs.
Vanderheyden
' r9e
Elmer H. Tepe
Gene Sterrett (St. Ed's) Jack Hasten (Walsh) John Grove (Dillon) Frank Roberts (Dillon) Bob Vaci (Alumni) Dave McKeen (Walsh) Nick Canzone (Cav-Mar)
First Scrimmage Raises Irish Stock As Many Esteemed Hopefuls Please Coaches
By GEORGE KRAUSER	'
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
With Notre Dame now at the halfway mark in the practice tuneups, the Irish entry is rapidly taking shape and hopes to be in the peak of condition for the opening of the 1944 gridiron race. For the past week the emphasis has been on offense with signal drills being especially stressed. The next phase of training will consist of passing, pass protection, and pass defense with scrimmaging also being a prime factor.
The clash with Pitt’s Panthers is just around the corner and the population of the Steel City seems to think the Panthers have an excellent chance of knocking off the Irish. Pittsburgh, which also employs the vaunted “T,” is a question mark to Coach McKeever, but he commented that “they’re supposed to be pretty good.”
Dancewicz Sparkles in Scrimmage
In the first scrimmage of the fall workouts Frank Dancewicz, Lynn, Mass, junior and understudy to Johnny Lujack on last year’s National Champs, stole some of the passing thunder when he
Only two weeks to go
chucked two touchdown passes. Bob Kelly, the Chi flyer, showed why he is the ace Irish right half as he turned in a long touchdown jaunt. Other backs who showed their cleats to would-be tacklers were “Chick” Maggioli, the Marine speed merchant; Elmer “Stud” Angsman, hard - charging fullback; George Terlep, leading left half candidate and V-12’er from Elkhart, Ind.; and Steve Nemeth, shifty half and local South Bend product.
The ball-carriers were not the only ones in the limelight as the bruising linemen proved hard nuts for the backs to crack. Hailing from New York and packing 195 pounnds on his towering frame, Bill O’Connor turned in a top flight performance at one of the wing positions. Another flankman who merited attention was Johnny Ray, another pigskinner from the high schools of South Bend. Two more standouts of the line were George Sullivan, the Massachusetts Marvel, and Pete Berezney of Jersey City, N.-J. Both of these tackles stand well over the six foot mark and tip the beams at the 205 pound mark.
Pat Filley Question Mark •
The big question of the moment is whether or not Pat Filley, captain of the Irish of last year and elected this year’s leader, will be ready for this season’s tussles. “The return of Filley will add poise and confidence to the squad,” remarked Coach McKeever, “and it will be a lot better when Pat gets back.”
A major change has taken place in the Blue and Gold backfield. Elmer Angsman, has been switched from the right half slot as Kelly’s understudy to the fullback post and Frank Ruggerio, fleet 200 pounder, has been moved to right half from his former fullback spot. This marks the second change for Frank, as he was a guard on last year’s squad.
Coaching Staff Augmented ‘
With the baseball season now history, Jake Kline, diamond mentor, has joined the coaching ranks as a backfield aide and Lieut, (jg) Carey Brewbaker, head of the Navy physical education program, brings the number of the Irish coaching staff to seven.
“The practices continue with the squad showing a lot of hustle and spirit,” drawled the smiling Ed. Thus far the team has shown that though it may be inexperienced, it nevertheless has the same fighting spirit which has characterized Irish elevens of the past.
As the days fly by and the scrimmages become rougher, the injuries naturally began to crop up. So far, only minor miseries have been reported with Bob Kelly coming up with a pulled muscle that forced him to take it easy for a few days, and Tom Guthrie suffering from a toe injury.
11
t
The Huddle-- Hub of Campus Chit-Chat;
Houses Photos of Irish Sport Greats
By TOM McNALLY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Faces that have caused a hundred enemy coaches to quail; games and teams that have written brilliant chapters into Notre Dame sports history! Yes, they’re all on the campus “Huddle” walls: pictures noticed or glanced at every day by “Huddle” patrons.
As you enter by the door opposite the Science Building, you see Joe Boland, Bill Mahoney, and Chet Grant. Boland, a grad of ’27, set two Notre Dame shot put records while a student. After graduating, he helped Adam Walsh as line coach at Santa Clara for two years and came back to Notre Dame as assistant football coach to Elmer Layden and later as temporary track coach. At present he is a well-known radio announcer on WSBT. Bill Mahoney won monograms for track in 1936, 1937, and 1938, first as a hurdler and then as a great runner. After serving him as assistant for two years, Bill succeeded the late John Nicholson as head track coach in July, 1940. Mahoney is now an officer in the Navy. Chet Grant, meanwhile, played quarter back with immortal George Gipp in 1920, graduated in 1921, but returned as backfield coach for Elmer Layden.
Next along the wall is pole vaulter Danny Gibbs who has an impressive array of firsts and seconds. He won the 1933 Butler Relays, the CCC Indoor, and the 1937 Drake Relays and added seconds in the 1936 Butler Relays, the 1938 Chicago Relays, and the 1938 Drake Relays.
Johnny Francis is Gibbs’ track mate in the following picture. In high school Francis was Chicago Catholic Champion for two years in the 880 and mile and continued to win the running honors for Coach Nicholson. Johnny’s outstanding performance was his record smashing 1:56.4 for the one-half mile. Both he and Gibbs are now playing for Uncle Sam.
In the next frame is Tom Sheehan, ’39 who was a terrific golfer in his four years. His accomplishments include golf captain for 1938 and 1939, and first in Indiana Intercollegiate for those years, but his real thrill was his world’s record qualifying score of 139 set at North Shore Country Club near Chicago. An Air Corps uniform now takes precedence over his trusty irons.
Behind the other door we have two outstanding N. D. basketball players— Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak. Moir’s
12
list of firsts includes: (1) scoring record for three years, 740 points; (2) all-time high for single game, 25 points against Pitt, and (3) All-American for all his three years. Nowak, meanwhile, is called the greatest center ever to wear Notre Dame colors and one of the top-notch college centers of all time.
But they both have a strong challenger in Eddie Riska who is the next athlete. Second only to Moir in scoring for three years, two years, and a single year, Riska once notched 23 points against Michigan in 1940. His game average for three years was a sizzling 10.3!
Farther down is Joe Benda who became end coach in 1937. While a student Joe played a rugged end for Knute Rockne two years after his fellow coach, Bill Cerney, who is the smiling gentleman on the center post. Cerney was understudy to Elmer Layden at fullback in the heyday of the “Four Horsemen” and he later became coach of the “B” squad, again under Layden.
The last individual picture is a large size shot of Elmer himself, in his playing days, when he was making sports history as the fullback of the aforementioned Four Horsemen.
Besides these pictures there are group pictures of three of Notre Dame’s formidable football teams: the 1938 squad led by Capt. McGoldrick, the 1939 team led by Johnny Kelly and All-American Tad Harvey, and the 1940 aggregate consisting of Paul Lillis, Bob Saggau, ete. Finally there are game shots showing the N.D.-N.U. game of 1924 won by N.D. 13-6, and three Southern Cal games of 1927, 1928, and 1940 respectively. The 1940 picture shows Capt. Milt Piepul crashing through a big hole for the ninth of his—and Notre Dame’s—ten points in a thrilling 10-6 win. To wind it up there is a shot of historic Cartier Field whose sod was moved to the present stadium when that building was erected in 1935.
.J.	4.	<.	.j.	.5,
❖ ♦ ❖	"THE SHILLELAGH"	❖
•I*	(Sequel to "Bearskin")	❖
Sept.	29 and continuing each week ‘I*
*1*	for	the	duration of the football *2*
❖	season.	❖
❖ He'll pull no punches—it will be ❖	the	straight	dope!	❖
❖	❖
A	•$»	A
Aero Department Boasts New Lab Equipment
The past months have seen the addition of some new squipment to the laboratories of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering.
A Roots blower type of supercharger has been added to the Studebaker Champion engine. This Roots blower is a casing in which there are two rotat-
ing parts, each of which has three lobes that fit together much like gears do. Air is drawn through an air cleaner and carried around the outer side of the rotors to the outlet. The lobes on the rotors could be straight but present ones are twisted into a spiral form to give a constant, uniform flow of air.
Electic strain testing equipment has been acquired and will begin seeing active duty shortly. The strain which a metal undergoes can be measured with this instrument by the amount of electrical resistance increase of a small metallic strip attached to the specimen being examined. As the specimen is strained, the metallic strip undergoes elongation also, and the increased length changes its electrical resistance. The amount of increase in electrical resistance is proportional to the amount of straining, therefore a fairly accurate reading is possible.
The Wind Tunnel Laboratory has seen the addition of a large hydraulic press, and of equipment for static load tests. The students in “Strength of Aircraft Structures Lab” would be more than happy to tell how many -weights have been added for static loading, as it is necessary for them to haul the weights out each time the class meets.
The Heat Power Building has a new test cell consisting of a Lycoming 4-cylinder, (horizontally opposed) type engine. This test cell was used for the first time last semester by a student group who conducted cooling tests by using different types of baffles.
In the future, several other tests and test-ideas will be tried. Among these is ah attempt to measure the torque of the engine by applying electric strain gages to the engine mount. In the future attempt will be made to verify the manufacturer’s specifications. One other plan will be to determine the temperatures of the cylinder head by inserting thermocouples at these points.—The Burble

glmMKtHtHiimmmHimimiHimmmiuMmMUtnmuiumMMa
| INTRODUCING |
By JIM HECK
It was a great day for the Irish Jan. 26, 1923, Patrick Joseph Filley came into the world. Naturally, no one dreamed that he would someday be the first man in the history of Notre Dame to captain the Fighting Irish in football for two straight years.
Pat entered Notre Dame in September of 1940 after prepping at Central High school in South Bend where he captained the wrestling team and won the state wrestling championship three years in a row, winning both the 155 and 165 pound titles. Of course, he was also on the
Captain Pat Filley
football team and earned the distinction of being All-State guard in his senior year.
During the ’43 season, Captain Pat led the National Champs to a record of nine wins and one loss. In calling the toss before the game, Pat guessed right on the first eight occasions and Notre Dame also won those eight games. Despite the toss he lost to the Seahawks, he still brought the boys home with the bacon. His play in the line was a major- factor in winning more than one of those nine games. In fact, he was so good that he was placed on virtually every All-American team in the country. He is considered by many as the greatest guard ND has ever produced. In his first year of varsity competition, Pat earned a guard position, playing with an outfit that won six, lost two, and tied two in the ’42 billing.
Notre Dame’s gain was the Marines loss. During the ’43 season, Pat was in
the Marine Detachment stationed here. After completing his scheduled stay, he was sent to Parris Island but due to a knee injury he had incurred during high school days and later re-injured on the gridiron here, he received a medical discharge last spring. Since then, he has had his knees operated on and will probably be ready for the second or third game of the season.
Pat’s home on the campus is in Sorin Sub where he rooms with John “Tree” Adams. Their favorite pastime is to try and see who can break the most bones in the other’s body. Besides this mild form of relaxation, Pat likes to tinker with his sports scrapbook, listen to records of popular- music, especially Harry James’ recordings, or read murder stories by Edgar Allen Poe.
When Pat returns to the line-up, Ed McKeever expects the team to gain that essential twelfth man on the field, “Mr. Mental Poise,” and naturally, be greatly strengthened by his presence in the guard slot.
Smallwood Replaces Lewis; Long Navy Record
Over 15 years sea duty out of 17^ years of continuous service with the U. S. navy is the remarkable record of Chief Yeoman 0. M. Smallwood, USN, who last Thursday, Sept. 11, replaced Chief Yeoman Lewis in the V-12 office.
Chief Smallwood was transferred to the Notre Dame campus from the San Francisco Receiving Station, after he had completed a leave, which he spent at the West Coast port. Mrs. Smallwood accompanied her husband; they have established temporary residence in the Jefferson Hotel.	.
Almost immediately upon being relieved by Chief Smallwood, Chief Lewis, who had been stationed here since July, 1943, began his trek to San Francisco for further assignment by the Commander of the Service Forces.
Notre Dame’s new chief wears four hash marks and a mustache. He last saw sea duty in the North Pacific waters around the Aleutians while seiwing aboard a repair ship. This was prior to his transfer to San Francisco.
Chief Smallwood recalls that it was back on April 27, 1927, when he first got “the urge” and took his oath to serve with the navy. Since that time, he has seen fit to remain among the bluejackets.
The only shore duty Chief Smallwood has ever received, prior to his
present assignment, was the two years, 1931-33, when he was stationed at Pensacola, Fla.
Much of his time in the navy has been spent aboard destroyers. During a period of five and one-half years during his long navy stretch, he served on destroyers, operating out of San Diego, Calif. Later he transferred to the East Coast and saw three years of destroyer duty in the vicinity of New York.
From June, 1939 until June, 1942, Chief Smallwood was stationed aboard a gunboat in South China. When World War II broke out, the Japs could have found the Chief sailing around Borneo, N.E.I. Shortly thereafter, he was transferred to the North Pacific theater.
Today, Chief Smallwood wears five service ribbons, which are those designating the Asiatic-Pacific, and North American theaters, China Service, Good Conduct, and Defense.—Al Broten
Coaches Shift Gridders
—Anything Can Happen
The numerous changes that the Irish coaching staff has made of late have been concrete efforts to put the strongest aggregation on the field, Sept. 30, when the Blue and Gold face Pitt’s Panthers in the Steel City.
The newest maneuvers entailed the shifting of Fred Rovai, a one time fullback and a center during the summer drills, to guard. With the anticipated absence of Capt. Pat Filley for the first few contests of the card, there is a looming weakness at the’ guard spots. George Martz, also a former center, was changed to a guard position ten days ago. John Ray, potentially the candidate for the right end spot, has been moved to center and in his stead will be Bob Skoglund, a NROTC trainee, who was battling Ray for the flank position. Mike Manzo, who was inaugurated in the Irish style at guard, is now working at tackle but men like John Adams and George Sullivan make his problem difficult to solve.
Dancewicz at Quarter
Angelo Bertelli and John Lu jack did more than leave an ordinary quarterback position open when they departed from the Golden Dome campus. But one of their understudies, Frank Dancewicz, from Lynn, Mass., has caught the eye of Coach Ed McKeever and will probably take over the duties of field general at kickoff time in Pittsburgh. The heralded Joe Gasparella, 17 year old sensation, is still in the fight for the quarterbacking chores but at present Dancewicz seems to hold an impressive edge.
13
By PETE BROWN
V-12 Week-End Committees Announced
The V-12 Executive Committee, together with the V-12 Ball Committee, is now hard at work on the big weekend of September 29-30. The heads of the various subcommittees have organized their committee members and are coordinating their efforts towards the success of the weekend.
Publicity is a wonderful thing. For weeks there have been beautiful red and blue signs around the campus about PHOMPS. Some of the signs read: “Watch out for the PHOMPS”; “The PHOMPS are coming”; “Five cents for every two PHOMPS turned in”; and more such brilliant statements. Now here is the big question. Just exactly what is a PHO MP? Is it the glass of water on the contestants’ back? Or is the man who won the race a PHOMP? The question still remains unanswered. Well, as I said in the first place. Publicity is a wonderful thing.
The most interesting thing of the field day was the baseball (we wonder if that is the word for it) game between St. Ed’s and Sorin. It afforded as much or even more amusement than that poor seaman who tripped on his boots at the parade grounds several weeks back. The game turned out to be a combination bunting practice, wrestling match, baseball throw and track meet. After 40 minutes of “competition” the game ended in a tie. It’s too bad that Coach McKeever couldn’t see some of his boys applying blocks on the baseball field.
Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun sports columnist, brought up a point that deserves a lot of thought. He called to mind the torture that Joe Cronin, Boston manager, has been going through this year. During the season he lost “Tex” Hughson at that time the league’s leading pitcher and Bobby Doerr, the leading batter of the A.L. Still the Red Sox are in there pitching for the American League pennant. Kearns thinks that someone should give a medal to Cronin for his work.
Irish captain Pat Filley is one of the two men on last year’s consensus AllAmerican team to be playing again this year. The other is tackle Don Whitmire of Navy.
Great Lakes recently published their season batting averages. The lowest average of the regulars was that of Gene Woodling, who hit .342. The other averages were: Schoolboy Rowe, .446; Whitey Platt, .428; Merrill May, .376; Billy Herman, .376; Al Glossop, .367; Johnny McCarthy, .366, and Dick West, .361. Those figures probably broke' Mickey Cochran’s heart.
The fifth annual All-Star basketball (Continued on page 18)
The organization of the Ball Committee is as follows:
General Chairman
.............Nelson Boswell, A.S.
Decorations.....—. John Madden, A.S., Bill Bevington, A.S. (co-chairmen) Publicity ......Joe	Thornton, Pvt., Bill Byington, A.S. (co-chairmen)
Refreshments ..........................................Paul	Morris, A.S.
Programs .........................................    Dave	Caplan, A.S.
Transportation ..........................................Bob Merz, A.S.
Housing ..............................................J. Lunsmann, Pvt.
Tickets ...........................................    Ray	Michols, A.S.
Finances ...............................................Ray	Bosler, A.S.
Checking ....................  -....................    Jim	Egan, A.S.
Weekend Chairman ...................................Jack	Schneider, A.S.
Nites & Daze Show..........................Bill	Over, Pvt., T. Shay, Pvt.
Secretarial Duties ....—...............................Bob	Bennek, A.S.
Caplan, Morris, Bosler and Savitt
Fuss, Scheel, Thornton, Byington, and Lunsman
Smith
Schneider, Boswell. Lt. Collins and
Bevington. Egan. Madden and Michols
14
sxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
tfxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx^
i
GENTLEMEN, THEY'RE HERE
Rumors circulating about the campus to the effect that St. Mary's would shortly return so captivated us this past week that we cast all economy to the winds and invested a nickel in a phone call to the Rock in quest of the truth of the matter. Imagine our surprise, and our delight, to find the nickel kept returning to us for the very good’ reason that the line was busy. Yes sir, about four hundred glunks heard the news before we did, and began calling. Then, last Tuesday night we looked out from our tower in Sorin and saw all the lights on across the Dixie. "Without a doubt, .gentlemen, the gals have returned, and we still have our nickel. If we get a call through before November, we’ll get all the details of the latest invasion, and pass them on to you. Better still—we may even venture over there and take a look at the crop. After all, seeing is believing, we say. If you don’t hear from us again, just remember- that we made a mistake —and be on guard yourslves.
STOP US IF YOU'VE HEARD THIS, BUT
Now that the mid-terms are over and the “pinkies” distributed rather generously in some quarters, we can no longer refrain from telling the joke we overheard about the professor who, trying to emphasize a point in logic to his class, asked rather pointedly: “If the United States is bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the west by the 'Pacific Ocean, on the north by Canada, and on the south by Mexico, how old am I?” The brighter students sat dumbfounded, but the dopiest of them all spoke up: “You’d be 44.” Dumfounded in turn, the professor said, “That’s right, young man. But how in the world did you know?” The student answered: “That’s easy. I have a brother who is half nuts and he’s 22.”
While military authorities have stated that few professors would be of any value in the infantry, we nevertheless venture to advance the opinion that there is always the alternative of putting a little metal about them, and sending them in as tanks.
Then, of course, there is the one about the fellow whose parents wrote to University officials recently, asking if the boy registered at school, this term. Reason: no “pinkies” had as yet arrived at the home.
CALL FOR CHEERS!
A creative imagination is demanded of one who attempts to produce a fightinspiring football cheer. Buzz Hassett, pep-rally chairman, is of the opinion that Notre Dame students have that ability. If you have a cheer which you think is good enough to be added to N.D.’s rostrum of nationally known cheers, please send oi- bring it to Mr. Hassett’s room in Sorin (101) on or before September 20. Acknowledgment will be given to the originator at a pregame rally.
*
PLANS FOR THE FUTURE
If Dick Murphy’s ideas (and he has them) work out as he hopes they will, there should be much going back and forth to St. Mary’s. According to Murph, several “mixers” are in the offing, to the end that better relations will be effected. And that’s an excellent idea, if you want our opinion on the matter. Furthermore, it is deserving of your cooperation. Hence, my laddies, should you ever want a date, even a particular date, tell the Murph. With several dances coming up, especially the big week-end dance of October 6, the
Maybe I didn't win the Phomp race—but McDermott must have been practicing.
game, the “Victory Dance” on Saturday night, and all the trimmings, you must see our point by now; and you must want to enjoy the occasion with the right people. That’s what we mean— the right people. And by that we don’t mean Murph; we mean the girls at the “Rock.” Furthermore we are going to play right here in our own yard. And there’s nothing else quite like inviting the little girls next door to come over for a good time. What do you think, Egbert? Hence, don’t ignore the “mixers.”	'
THE FAMED "HANK" HOGAN
Of all the celebrities in our midst, the most underrated star is none other than “Hank” Hogan, erstwhile of Red Nichols Band, sometime celebrity in Harrisburg, and now of the NROTC aboard the S.S. Walsh. In fact, it wasn’t until last Saturday evening in La Porte that the fellow really shared in the glory that should have come to him long ago. Modest, you know, and all that sort of thing. Anyway, after a tremendous buildup on the part of the orchestra leadei- at the Colonial Inn, and reinforced by a contingent from Walsh, the fellow really got under way with “Swinging on a Star,” (“Please bring that down a key and a half!”) Just then his attention was captured by a feminine contingent.' Well, the management thought it best to save the celebrity for some future date when there would be fewer soldiers and sailors escorting their girl friends, or until such time as our hero brought his own date.
❖
ST. ED'S A.C. TRIUMPHS AGAIN
After several semesters of lethargic participation, the stalwarts of St. Ed's, smarting under the insinuations of other campus habitats that they were no longer equal to the traditions of their ivyclad towers, came out in full force, last Sunday at the Field Day Games. Gentlemen, we take our hats off to them. They were good; in fact they were the best— and so won the day easily. Sorin, having previously expended much hot air in accusations and similar balderdash, appeared exhausted at the start of the contests, and so garnered a minimum of points, though Harry Ryan upheld the lighter end of Sorin’s team as McDermott upheld the other. In fact St. Edward’s had little or no opposition. The other halls, offered but a gesture of competition. Now Sorin is asserting that an entirely different sort of games was anticipated; hence their poor showing in the outdoor competition. They still think that the finals are to be run off at George’s, favorite training center for the squad.
15
BRINGING UP THE REAR
It seems John Vogt is developing a sort of complex because of his always marching at the end of the second platoon. For the last four semesters Vogt has been bringing up the rear and now makes this statement: “Gosh, nobody ever notices me back here. It must be swell to be up front with all the tall guys; it sure does get lonesome.’’ But John, hasn’t Red Blair been keeping you company back there?	-
SECURITY IN THE FUTURE ,	.
Bob Koch is pretty friendly with all the NCO’s. You can always find him in the QM room with all his officer friends. That’s almost as good an investment , in his marine future as War Bonds.
FALSE ALARM
From all reports, the fire drill Friday morning was very successful. Only 1300 swabbies were crushed to death in racing for the exits, and another 100, in traditional stubbornness, decided to remain in their sacks and go dowrn with the ship. The marines, in their usual well-ordered precision, quietly evacuated Cavanaugh, and had “the situation well in hand.”
WE AIN'T SO DUMB
The surprisingly few number of marines on the mid-term scholastic deficiency list should help clear the air of that fallacious medieval superstition concerning the mentality of the average gyrene. Out of 165 marines, only 125 are flunking three-fourths of their courses; just 34 men are failing everything. And it is gratifying to note that one man in the marine detachment did not even appear on the tree. This unusual fellow was presented with -the Green Banana, symbol of the National Gleaps Honorary Association for Demented Swabbies. When asked to make a statement for the Gizmo, this marine said: “My fodder was a swabbie, and me mudder, she was a WAVE; I tink I’m just a sailor at heart.”—Hairy Le Bien, president of the NGHAFDS, made the coveted award.	.
MARINE MURMURS
It is generally agreed that the outstanding talent in the last Happy-Hour was in the marine quartet composed of Nick Canzona, Fritz Velguth, Russ Moon, and Bob Schultz. Of course, there were other good acts too, but at least one person went down on record as screaming, in regards to the quartet: “Oh, gosh!”
MESSING AROUND THE MESS HALL
Lt. Collins hasn’t been able to enjoy his “meals” in the mess hall lately. He’s kept busy chasing Neal Sprague and Dale Van Lente away from the icecream-hander-outer.
BIDDING FOR A BID
As the V-12 Ball date comes closer, the girls in S.B. are becoming increasingly aggressively affectionate. Dale Wares is being chased by about a dozen Bendix workers after his bid, and so is
R. E. Smith (though his following is more from Studebaker’s). Fortunately, both these gyrenes are good track men (or at least R.E. -was) and so they’re able to keep out of trouble. But it’s very exhausting racing around all the time, and they come back from liberty pretty well beat-up.
Radio Club Comes to Life
After about three semesters of apparent inactivity the Radio Club has been rejuvenated. Station WND, which is located in the band room of Washington Hall, is humming with activity these days, as more and more fellows begin to look forward to a career in Radio after graduation.
Seaman Bill Oyler is running the V-12 branch of the station and Buzz Hassett is in charge of the Civilians. At the present time there are two programs being aired weekly.... “A Views and Previews” program on Saturday afternoon at 4:30 and a Sportscast on the same afternoon at 5:15.
If any of the students are potential producers, the Radio Club will welcome new shows, and if they are right, an effort will be made to get air time for them over WSBT.
The Studios are open every Wednesday night for all who want to come over and practice before the mike. It’s good experience and all who wish are welcome to come over at that time.—Buzz Hassett
IS
Happy Hour Still Great Favorite with V-12; Hoag and Spinney Are Men Behind Scenes
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
INTERHALL BOXING FINALE
(Continued from page II)
Jim Leahy, Dillon (3). John Grove, Dillon, beat Jim Klockenhamper, Alumni (3).
“Scholastic" Associate Editor
“What can those guys be planning now?” That is probably the first question which pops into the mind of the ordinary V-12 (if such there are) as he wanders by Room 148 of Alumni Hall and sees two bodies hunched over a box of Graham crackers and a bottle of Le Page’s glue. Of course, there can be no doubt in the minds of those V-Twelvers who for the. past two and one-half months have been billeted in the vicinity.
Ask any one of them and the ready answer will be that the two bodies, which belong to Richard Hoag and Don Spinney, are dreaming up another of the famous “Slap Happy” Hours which have taken the campus by “storm.” (The man in the rear says “storm of protest”)
At any rate, no matter what the neighbors may think, these are the two men who, among the student personnel of the unit, have had more to do with the success of the Wednesday-night shows than any others on the campus. Their brains, aided and abetted by the fertile cranium of one Chief Broderick, have concocted the weird programs which have twice this semester rocked the dignity of Washington Hall.
Inquiring in the vicinity of “148” concerning the lives of the priceless pair, this reporter discovered first of all that they have been able to cooperate so well because they both hailed from Michigan. Richard “Ma” Hoag struggled to Notre Dame from the town of Benzonia in the Wolverine state; whereas, his accomplice originated in Royal Oak.
The first show was staged on Wednesday, August 23 in Washington Hall. It featured Spinney and Hoag alternating as “MC’s,” Frank “Slide Rule” Kelly as the silent wit; the famous harmonica artist, George Bender; Dutch Crask and his V-12 Commanders; Bill Friday and Don White on guitars; and several other talented men in the unit.
On Wednesday, Sept. 6, the second in the series was presented on the stage of Washington Hall. Again the Spinney-Hoag combine took over the task of mastering the ceremonies. Spinney picturesquely impersonated a woman removing a girdle and Hoag, an opera singer. The marine quartet, composed of N: A. Can-zona, R. C. Moon, R. E. Schultz, and F. W. Velguth, made their initial concert
debut'. Other acts included guitar and violin duets by C. Sheldon and Don White; piano solos by Jack Milder; guitar selections by Jack Mallinckrodt, who made his departure in a very undignified manner; N. Sherman and Edward Gunn as the crew of a two-man Jap sub; and impersonations by Frank Kelly. Joseph “Seabiscuit” • Hammond calmed the crowd with a poetic masterpiece and Jim Krueger personally appeared as an announcer.
The show closed with the presentation of the V-12 glee club, under the direction of D. H. Pedtke, head of the Department -of Music.
Much of Wednesday night’s show will be given again this Sunday afternoon in a command performance at the South Bend Service Men’s Center. Participants in the show are hoping for the best.
In the financial statement which the Slap Happy Hours, Inc., released last week, it is revealed that thus far on two shows, a total of three dollars has been spent to procure the high class entertainment for the “men.” Mr. Hoag has stated, however, that advertisers on the program have not as yet made any efforts to pay for their advertisements. This refers to the following: Harry Nicodemus, Gabel’s Shore Leave Company, F. 0. Athletic Equipment, and Broderick Bath Tub Distilleries.
Eyeing the future with suspicious glares, all that the two showmen had to say in commenting on their plans was, “Help!!”
Correction
The accusation was made at the last “Slap Happy” Hour that in order to get leave papers signed by Lt. Collins, a V-Twelver must first obtain a request sheet from the chief and then wait six months.
Lt. Collins now wishes to correct this very absurd accusation. The seaman will be required to wait only five months before being called into the presence of this officer.
Those men who were responsible for making this statement during the show are hereby warned.
155 lb. — Bob Blair, Cav-Mar, t.k.o’d Rolando Duarte, St. Ed’s (2). Frank Roberts, Dillon, decisioned Valeiitine Bena, Alumni (3).
165 lb. — Ralph Deem, Alumni, t.k.o’d. Crowell, Cav-Mar (2). Bob Vaci, Alumni, t.k.o’d Bill Seeberg, Cav.Mar (1).
175 lb. — Dick Gorman, Carroll, won over Phil Winter, Cav-Mar (3). Dave McKeen, Walsh, drew a bye.
Heavyweight — John Trave, Carroll,
. . . Next Wednesday will prove it
beat John Martin, Dillon (3). Nick Canzone, Cav-Mar, decisioned Bill Chandler, Cav-Navy (3).	-
All in Fine Shape .
The semi-finals showed the best conditioned group of boxers to compete on the campus in years, despite the fact that five of the thirteen bouts ended in technical knockouts. The abundance of t.k.o’s was not the result of physical exhaustion, as is usually the case, but of hard, clean blows like the ones with which Lou Kontros finished off Jim Leahy and Tom Nowlen pounded into Vance Maloy.	-
Sgt. Joe Santos, a pugilist of some repute a few years back on the New England coast, is mainly responsible for the excellent shape the boxers were in for it was he who took the men in midsummer and readied their bodies for the test. He was very much impressed with the display of his proteges Wednesday and predicts a final card of good calibre and good, clean boxing.
17
Economic Roundtable
The Economic Roundtable was addressed Friday evening, Sept. 8, by Jim Clynes who spoke on “The Economic and Political Aspects of Cartels.” David Champion of the N.R.O.T.C., conducted the meeting.
Mr. Clynes showed that the international cartel association resembles a national trade association which is engaged in restricted activities. The members of such a body are producing companies in various nations. The cartel management is expressed in a more or less formal agreement to which all are parties or in the rules and regulations of the association itself. Such cartels may formally agree to fix prices; to limit and apportion output, sales, or exports; to allocate market territories; to redistribute profits in accordance with an agreed formula; or even to sell through a jointly maintained sales agency. The economic power of such'an association depends upon the proportion of the total output which it controls and the willingness of its members to conform to the terms of their agreement.
Mr. Clynes concluded that although Germany lost the last v^ar I. G. Farben gained the peace. Stronger in 1919 than five years before, I. G. and its cartel brethren in German industry took back control of crucial fields despite all the law’s enacted here to prevent their doing so. The Versailles Treaty stripped Germany of its foreign possessions but the cartels acquired more colonies than the empire contained at its height. These conquests w’ere made by contrasts which allowed Germany’s firm to “divide and rule” world markets.
The principles of democracy are its strength. Desertion from these principles, its danger. People dedicated to peace and freedom must be strong. To be strong, they must have access to technology and therefore they must be free. We want no private planners nor do wTe need a paternal bureaucracy. The weakness of democracy lies not in its lack of planning but in its tolerance of industrial oligarchy.
proved himself last season. Young tied the world’s record for the 60-yard dash during the winter. He also scored 128 points in ten games w’hile leading Wendell Phillips High school of Chicago to the Public School championship. Greenwood is an expert ball handler and will work over the center in the T.
Let’s all tip our hats to Dick Wakefield, Detroit outfielder. After being discharged from the Navy Air Corps, he joined the Tigers who were floundering in the second division. Since his return the Tigers have pushed themselves into the four w’ay pennant fight. Mr. Wakefield deserves a lot of credit for this improvement.	.
ST. EDWARDS WINS (Continued from page 4)
Phomp Race: McDermott. Sorin. Donze. Bieen-Phillips; McDuffee, Carroll.
Dry Carry: Dooley. St. Ed’s: Ames, Sorin: Lyden. Breen-Phillips.
Soccer Dribble: McGuire, Breen-Phillips; Roma-goza, Sorin; Reardon, Carroll.
Relay: St, Ed’s; Carroll, B-P.
Team Scores: St. Edward's. SO; Breen-Phillips, 42; Carroll. -10 ; Sorin. 18.
Judges: Francis Fitzgibbons. William McNeil, and Robert Woodhouse.
Honorary Judge: Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C.
General Chairman. Richard Ames: Publicity.
Robert Riordan and Earle Pye.
WAR CLASSES BEGIN (Continued from page 3)
The program is under the direction of the Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C., administrative assistant. The teaching staff for the fall term will include the followr-
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving, at- 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
ing instructors: D. J. Angelakos, Jay Bolt, Carson Buck, Francis Calkins, James Dincolo, Robert Egry, Harold Ellithorn, Christopher' Fagan, Bernard Finnan, C. J. Kline, Stanley Luke, James A. McCarthy, J. A. Northcott, Arthur Quigley, A. W. Row’land, Raymond Schubmehl, Walter Shilts, Lawrence Stauder, Carl Stevason, and W.
,W. Turner.	'

HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
i HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I
....iiiiii!iiiiiiitnniiif«|
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 14)
game will.be held in Chicago on Dec. 1. The All-Stars will face the Fort Wayne Zoliners, the pro champs. In the four previous .games the All-Stars haven’t been beaten by the pros.
Illinois w’ill have a speed-plus backfield this season. The backfield includes at halfs Eddie Bray and Buddy Young, and at quarter Don Greenw’ood. Bray
18
By BLAIR NATTKEMPER
“A one, a two, a three”; with this, and the drop of the baton, “Dutch” Crask leads the “V-12 Commanders” into another solid musical arrangement for the entertainment of Notre Dame’s servicemen. With the help of Yeoman Fredericks, Dutch organized the “Commanders” at the beginning of the semester, and now provides the boys with both sweet and hot at practically all the V-12 “shindigs” here on the campus.
The Commanders, under the direction of “Dutch,” play for the Saturday night V-12 dances held at the “Rock,” twice a week at chow, and for the “Happy Hours” on Wednesday night at Wash-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
uQ. 1" N,x
7 ml	VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-Bx-Bo (G)-C-Bg
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bx” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B2” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be _ AS MUCH “Bg” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as 14 lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 tngm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS=$3.50
ON SALE AT THE BOOKSTORE
ington Hall. Besides leading the band, “Dutch” plays a very mean trumpet which has gained top' recognition with both the Navy and Marines here.
A native Hoosier, “Dutch” hails from Noblesville. While in high school, and for a short time afterwards, “Dutch” had his own band. Thus it’s very plain that he is no amateur in the music business. “Trumpeter” Crask took time out from his music while in high school to play two years of varsity football and basketball.
This is Crask’s second semester at Notre Dame and he hopes he will be able to finish in July ’45. He is on a general course at the present time, and hopes to be a supply officer after his graduation from midshipmen school. “Dutch” is a former fleet man, and has spent 16 months in Panama — “16 months too many” “Dutch” put in emphatically. Although “Dutch” said nylon stockings and perfume were a dime a dozen in Panama he didn’t bring any back for the girl friends. The one and only, wearing The ring lives in Tipton, Ind., and comes up to South Bend often to help keep “Dutch’s” morale at a high pitch.
When it comes to eating, “Dutch” likes anything but Notre Dame food; and his pet peeve is his roommate, namely Bob Barrett, who seems to possess the art of riling the otherwise calm Crask dander.
Dutch’s room, 231 Alumni, is the U. S. O. of Alumni Hall. “People are in and out of this room constantly with ‘Got any glue?’ ‘Can I borrow your shampoo?’ ‘Have you got anything to wash stripes with?’ It goes on constantly,” exclaimed Dutch, “there are usually six to ten guys in the room and they are forever shushing each other because Lieut. Collins seems to have an undaunted habit of clearing out all unwanted visitors on the average of five times a night.
Dutch belongs to a strictly Navy family; his brother wears the Navy blues and his sister is married to another member of Uncle Sam’s fleet. Crask hopes to get married to the sweet, little damsel from Tipton, and go into the grocery business; he also intends to start up his own band again soon after the war.
Dr. Paul Bartholomew
Listed in Who's Who
The name of Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the Department of Politics here at the University, has been added to those appearing in Who’s Who in America.
Dr. Bartholomew has also been chosen as a representative of the field of political science in the postwar publication of W/w Knows, The Book of Authorities.
H...........................................  3
I Campus Centenary [ I Publications I
: Notre Dame—100 Years_________________$4.00 5
: Collected Poems oi	i
5 Charles L. O'Donnell_________________$2.50 :
1 ... at the Bookstore i
RmiiiiiitiiuniiiiiiiitmiHiiiiiHiiiiiiimiiiiHiiuiiiiiHiMiiiiiiitifsl ., --------------- [■JtiliiiiimittiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiriiiuiiitiitiiiiiMiMiiitHittifimittti* B |	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	1
|	at	|
!	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	|
E	A wide selection of	=
I	Desirable Gifts	j
1	on display.	=
=	Use our lay-away plan.	=
|»fciiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiuiimniiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiuii»iiiiiiiiif«l
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY '	REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
19
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Mveks Tobacco Co.