December 24, 1943
Vol. 80, No. 6
& 4Werrp Christmas

^he ^fotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867

THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney_____________________________Editor-in-chief
Ralph Abell   ........................   .Associate	Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole___________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors Jim Cassidy and Bob Schellenberg....__________"The Week" Bill Waddington___________________________________ Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty.....................     Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett____________________The Green Banner Dick Murphy______________________________College Parade
Al Lesmez___________________________...Man About Campus
Ratshin and Grossman............:...........Now Hear This
News Staff
Frank Keenan................................   News	Editor
Al Lesmez.__________________________________Campus Editor
Edward Madden_______________________...Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J. D. Lisina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano John Locke	Mike Canair
Features
Al Broten________________________________________—Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner - Harry Tanner Charles Veenstra
Sports Staff
Bill Carey__________________________________________Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane •	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller Frank Cacciapaglia
Circulation
John Matmiller__________________;_________Manager
Don Cole__________________________________Asst. Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C__________Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or Ifil Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building:
Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 D.m.
2
The Staff of the
Notre Dame "Scholastic"
Wishes the
Students and Faculty of the University
A
MERRY CHRISTMAS
And A
HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR
What is the best defense aqainst fubercu/osis ?
FIGHTING men say that attack is the best defense
And this holds true in the battle against our greatest unseen enemy — the dread tuberculosis that still kills more people between the ages of 15 and 45 than any other disease
TB is no respecter of persons or homes—over night it may strike you, your family. One strong safeguard is your an-
nual purchase ot Christmas Seals, which has helped a gallant army of volunteer laymen and doctors cut the TB death rate by seventy-five per cent since 1904.
Your help is needed now to orevent a wartime rise in tuberculosis. To protect your home . . and every home in America ... send in your contribution. today, please!
BUY
CHRISTMAS
The National. State and Local rubereulosio Associationc In SEALS the United Stateo.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	-
VOL. 80
DECEMBER 24, 1943
NO. 6
Students Emigrate for Christmas Weekend;
Midnight Mass, Parties Planned for Those Left
BY AL LESMEZ
A great exodus began early in the week as students began leaving for home, or for the homes of friends and distant relatives for the Christmas “holidays.” The climax of this exodus is not expected until tomorrow afternoon when the great bulk of servicemen stationed on campus begin to leave.
Although it is true that “there is no place like home,” it has proved more practical for the majority of civilians and trainees to plan modified trips to nearby Indianapolis, Cleveland, Chicago, or other places in this vicinity, rather than attempt the long ordeal home to spend perhaps one day with the folks.	.
Lt. Collins states that not more than 200 V-12 students ■will remain on campus without leave of some sort or another. Added to this is a small group of civilians who are content enough to remain here for the weekend, together with the Religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross. For these men who plan to remain at Notre Dame either part of the time, or the whole two days, there is an inviting array of festivities and invitations to make sure that Santa comes to you.
The Catholic Action Students’ organization has completed details for a program to bring the spirit of Christmas to those far away from home and family. Christmas Night, the 10th in a series of weekly dances sponsored by this organization will be held at St. Joseph’s School Hall from 8 to 11 p.m. for civilian and service students.
Those men remaining in the vicinity of South Bend are urged to drop around to the Service Center as there will invariably be something doing. A most entertaining program has been outlined by the senior Hostesses to make Christmas a merrier one for the hundreds of men who will be away from their homes and family on this joyous feast.
The Center has been especially decorated with Christmas trees to give it a “homey” atmosphere. Friday, Christmas Eve, will be the first of the parties in honor of the men, and it will he given by the cadettes from 8 to 12 midnight. Christmas Night the regular Saturday evening dance is scheduled with the Musician’s Federation furnishing an orchestra. An added event for Christmas at the Center will be that everything will be free, including soft drinks. Climaxing the festivities will be the turkey dinners served from 3 until 5 o’clock Sunday by the Red Cross canteen.
A Midnight Mass is scheduled in Sacred Heart Church here on campus. There will be a special section reserved for civilians and servicemen. Dujarie Choir directed by Brother Arnold, C.S.C., will sing the Mass and contribute a program of Yuletide carols begin-
ning at 11:30 pun. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the celebrant. At this writing, plans had not been completed for a Communion breakfast to be held either in the dining halls or in the study halls of Carroll Hall right after this Midnight Mass. Bulletin boards will furnish the details.
Adding to the general attitude of “Peace on earth, good will toward men,” the University Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Pedtke, will provide a Christmas atmosphere as it tours the campus Christmas Evening singing famous. old carols. The tour will include a visit to every hall on the campus.
Lt. Collins and the Prefects of Religion have numerous invitations for service men and civilians who are desirous of eating at the home of some South Bend family who has requested guests. Those who wish to accept may see the Prefects or Chaplains.
Chief Broderick, Chief Ijams, and John Toole are in charge of a Christmas program to be held in the old gym' for servicemen. There will be no messenger or fire watches, during this two-day holiday.
❖ NO ’ SCHOLASTIC" NEXT WEEK ❖ ❖ ------------------- ♦ $ Because of mid-term exams, sched- ♦
uled for Dec. 27-31. the next issue of ♦ ♦ the "Scholastic" will not appear until ♦ ❖ Ian. 7.	♦
3
The Week
3g 3 g -a gL ^g 3gL	=SE-«?
BY JIM CASSIDY AND BOB SCHELLENBERG
TOP OF THE WEEK
Merry Christmas I
GREETINGS
To the readers of this column; to those loyal people who have encouraged us, given us such loyal support, and expressed so vehemently their enjoyment and admiration of this column; to those who each week can hardly wait to get their copy of the Scholastic and open it to the page titled—THE WEEK. . . . Merry Christmas, Mom and Dad!!
HEADLINE OF THE WEEK
(Under WSBT on radio page):
•‘Scholastic IS AIRED ON SATURDAY AFTERNOON.” Well, with a column like this one in it, what magazine wouldn’t meed a little airing once in a while.
Notice to All Students: (This means you, brother). All men who plan to remain on the campus over the Christmas vacation will be served a Christmas dinner in the Dining Hall similar to that which was served on Thanksgiving.
Yule be sorry!
MOVIE REVIEW
* * * * Four Bells.
Bidova On a Banana-Skin or Watch on the Rhine. . . The.story of a leader in the German Underground. (HERO: a Berlin Air raid Warden) * * * * Bells.
The Phantom of Washington -Hall. . . The story concerns a member of the Washington Hall Philharmonic Orchestra, the third triangle player, who falls madly in love with Chartreuse Saddledrop, local chanteuse, prima donna of a Gilbert and Sullivan classic. She plays the part of dear little Buttercup, but for him butter is rationed—and though she may be a buttercup to him, in her case that’s just a FAT MUG.
The tempestuous toreador of the tinkling tymphony, thwarted in love and maddened by a chow hall steward, who consistently makes him sit by a drafty door at breakfast, chokes first on a mystery ball and then chokes the steward. The steward’s sweetheart, a busgirl, momentarily losing her poise
(averdu), hurls a cupful of cafe coffee into the hero’s face, thus horribly disfiguring him for life.
The triangle player runs from the chow hall screaming in agony and seeks refuge in Sorin Sub. The operetta finishes its one night stand; but as the chorus hits the final note of the finale, the phantom rushes in and removes the scotch tape upon which the balcony is suspended, and it collapses. Just then the villain, a mail clerk from Co. C, announces that the Phantom also writes the Snooper and Marine Murumuurs. The great detectives Sherlock Hogue and Dr. Cunningham are called in. They solve the case and each gives the Phantom fifteen demerits. But no one knows how in thunder he ever got that piano down into the sewer.
**** — *—**—* Four Bells—Five Bells — Six Bells — Oh, heck. . . . Dingalingalingalingaling!!!
Betty Grable in Sweet Rosie O’Grady . . . starring Betty Grable. . . (Gulp).
IT'LL CLAUS A LOTTA TROUBLE
’Twas the night before Christmas, And all through the Rock
Not a creature was ticking— Not even a tock.
The bear trap was set by the fireplace with care
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;
With this manpower shortage they do all they can
For, just like the Rangers, they must get their man.	-
The rockettes were nestled all snug in their beds
While screams of wild laughter rang through their heads,
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter
They sprang to the window to see what’s the matter.
And what the girls saw made them know that they rate
’Twas a Central High Junior in a Cadillac “8”.
More rapid than Eagles those; cylinders came,	-
And he whistled and shouted and called them by name:
“Yoohoo, Patty and Joan- and Pinky and Bette,	■
Mary Lou, Mary Alice, Dotty, Laurette!” “So,” said one of the ladies, with a sly smiling gloat,
“He may be a young un, but he don’t drive a boat.”
And later that night as HE’S done every year,
Came Santa, his sled, and eight tiny reindeer.
He slid down the chimney, his job nearly done,
When 400 voices all shouted as one: “It’s too bad dear Santa, though we think you’re great,
But you can’t come in here if you ain’t got a date”.
CURRENT EVENTS
You’ll get a charge out of this.
S. CLAUSE, APO, NYC, NY.
Our annual shopping tour, the kind where you get a lot of those bills and come back without any of the other kind, took us Wednesday to Toyland. After passing through rows and rows of nothing but rows and rows we finally smashed our way to the basement with only slight losses. By the way the laundry will replace the sleeves of your peacoat for a flat rate of a dollar a piece (nothing on the cuff, you understand). We discovered from the charming clerk—South Bend 3-7948—that the most popular' items on the “Dear Santa” shopping list (Gee, she was cute) were jeeps for the boys, and bride dolls for the girls. . . electric trains have lost their popularity, for the only kind you can get are the ones that run without metal tracks . . . (but what the heck, the South Shore has been getting away with it for years). But alas and alack, no Santa! Gad, what a situation! Could it be that Mr. McNutt—but no, that was impossible.
“Where” we asked the charming young thing who waited on us, “is Santa?”
“Oh, he won’t be here till 4:30.”
Hum, perhaps Santa had a luncheon engagement. “Well, why will he. be so late?”
The awful truth came to the fore. “Well, you see he’s a senior at Central, and they don’t let out till 4:00.” So they are rationing that kind of Christmas spirit too!
DUFFLENITION
South Bend: A town full of gobs and gobs of—eh—gobs and gobs.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
Happy Dec. 27. We’ll be seeing you. We’d better!!
4
Marines from Ranks to Head Detachment;
Pvt. Waters and Pvt. Brown in Command
N. D. Transfers at Parris Island Laud V-l 2 Training
BY PVT. ERIC
A. REHNWELL
By John Knutson
The letters from the Notre Dame ma-
Operating under a regimental command this semester, the Marine Detachment of the Navy V-12 Program is headed by Pvt. Vern Waters as regimental commander, Pvt. Wayne Martin and Pvt. Donald Dackins are aides. The Marine Battalion is under the command of Pvt. Robert Brown. Pvt. Jack McKenzie is subcommander, Pvt. James Mansfield adjutant, Pvt. Dexter Landau sergeant major, and Pvt. George Mathwig runner.
Last semester these men were company commanders. All of them have come up from the ranks. With only four companies this semester, the Marine unit will strive to be a “tight” outfit. Men who serve as platoon leaders and sergeants have been promoted this semester to serve as the company commanders.
In the field the regimental command is headed by a colonel or a lieutenant colonel. The second in command usually is a major. The battalion commander is a major also.
The primary purpose for the regimental command at Notre Dame is to parade in the various reviews that are to be held in the near future.
Working with the Navy regimental command, the Marines will alternate. One week the Seamen will be in charge, and the following week the “Gyrenes” will have complete charge.
So far drill has been held every Saturday from 1100 to 1150. Mr. Banashek, Marine Gunner, stated that beginning after the new year, all seniors in the Marine unit will have a special instructional class during that hour. The class will study the fundamentals of leading a platoon, understanding the M-l rifle, and other techniques that have to be acquired in the training of a Marine officer. One night a week might also be appropriated for the seniors to learn something from the “Marine’s Handbook.”
Notre Dame Marines have made a good name for themselves. A report from Parris Island to Captain Finney stated that the honor platoon in the officer’s candidate class was composed of Notre Dame men. The platoon was well-drilled, well-founded in its military
discipline, and it displayed excellent marching. In the near future it is the hope of the commanding officer, the D. I.’s, and the men of the detachment, that they can carry on a new tradition to Parris Island; that of being good Marines who can outdrill, outdo anything any other Marine group.from the various V-12 schools in the country.
With the forming of a new regimental staff, classes for the seniors and the aspiring work of the N.C.O.’s, the Notre Dame Marines can look forward to heading for P. I. with a well-rounded program of fundamentals tucked under their belts.
There may be another competition drill held in the near future. Last semester Company D walked off with honors. Under the skillful guidance of Pvt. Vern Waters, then company commander, D company was the best drilled outfit on campus. Within the next few weeks, the four Marine companies can look forward to a lot of drilling.
Student Leatherneck Officers Line Up
rines ’ who went to Parris Island have vindicated the statement of those who went to San Diego that the Notre Dame V-12 Marines have it all over all the other V-12 detachments in the country.
The Marines w’ho went to P. I. make up the greater part of Platoon 829 which is proving to be one of the best platoons on the island, if not the best. On the last of the periodic tests on the Marine Manual, Platoon 829 had the highest score. As a result of the showing they were appointed the formal guard mount. This is supposed to be the highest honor bestowed on a boot platoon.
In the afternoon after the formal guard mount, the platoon took part in the weekly parade and then drilled in front of the reviewing stand. They did so well that even the hardened officers took notice. (Their D. I. gave them only a mild compliment which is something not usually done by the tough D. I.’s.)
THE SNOOPER
Stehlin's Victory Band to Concert on Jan. 5;
Carden Promises Dance Band Headliners
Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER
BY LARRY CARDEN
The “Problem” of the week is:. How did Jim Murtaugh (Co. K; 151 Zahm) get the title of “The Wrestler?” Confidentially, I hear he doesn’t like said title. Well, fellows, the details are too many for me to mention, and I am afraid I couldn’t present them to you as vividly as could “The Wrestler” himself. Ask him to tell you — I’m sure he , would be only too happy to oblige.
The “Lost Battalion” has been found — it’s in Zahm Hall! At least, that is the report given by usually reliable sources. If you should happen over Zahm way, please confirm this. I’ll do the same when I get bold enough to venture over into “no man’s land.”
This little article reached me via my box in the office. Thanks, somebody — but you didn’t put a name on it. Please, fellows, put a name on information placed in “The Snooper’s” box. Enough of this prattle and on to the article:
If any of you want an advancement (special money) on next month’s pay, here’s the way to do it: make up a “hard luck” story such as the one to follow, and take it to the Disbursing Officer: “They’ve asked me to ‘donate’ fifty cents to the War Fund, a dollar to the . Navy Relief; my clothes (except the ones I have on) are at the cleaners; my shoes need rejuvenating;, my watch needs repairing; I need a haircut; I need a dollar and seventy cents for a sweat suit; my mother’s birthday is next week; Christmas is tomorrow; I owe five dollars and two bus tokens so far! Please, sir, may I have my pay now — sir?” ,	.
After I gathered my “jolted” senses and joints together, brushed off the worst of the dust, found my hat and gloves (some ten or fifteen feet behind me), I limped mournfully back to my room to “lick my wounds” and try to “repair a broken heart!”
Why is Mr. Giza Asidorian (pronounced As idor ian) called “Jones”?
(Continued on page 15)
Business Manager of Stehlin's Victory Band
(Editor’s note: The Scholastic is not responsible for the predictions made in this article. The publication has proved itself a bad prophet in the past, and intends to take no more chances with the future.)
In this day and age of rumors a definite undertone has arisen to challenge the now famous Christmas rumor. Lately the boys with their ears to the ground have risen from their posts with a startled expression and a muttered word or two.
What is this thing that has risen through the dirt and snow of Mother Earth to upset the balance of the campus “informers?” What is IT that has skated across the frozen lakes and made its way slipping and sliding down the paths of the Quad?
When Father Burke comes running to his door to complain (we forgot to mention “IT” took a short cut through the Main Offices) we think it is about time to let the public in on the secret. It is well known among the campus “smarties” that John Stehlin will move his terrific orchestra into old Washington Hall the first Wednesday night of the New Year. For the date conscious let’s call it the fifth of January. But what the insiders don’t know is that Stehlin and his crew have planned the biggest entertainment enterprise ever
Manager Carden at Northwestern Game with Charlie Spivak
to hit the campus. And that is our rumor.
Plans have been laid to lure some of the top names in music to the campus, and when we say “tops” we mean just that. Listed on the tentative menu are such personalities as Charlie Spivak, repeatedly referred to as the “sweetest trumpet in the world.” During Charlie’s last visit to the Panther Room of Chicago’s Hotel Sherman, Stehlin and his contact men spent many hours with the maestro. At the Northwestern game Charlie turned to Larry Carden, who was seated next to him, and said, “With a ball club like that, how could I refuse you lads?”
The list continues with the name of Benny Goodman springing to the fore. Stehlin has been in constant touch with the “King” and he is definitely considering the offer. His noted rival, Tommy Dorsey, has also been approached. Glenn Miller has also been considered, and it is hoped that he will be able to free himself from his Air Corp’s duties in time to put in an appearance.
In making our prediction we go on record as saying: When the lights go up one, if not more than one great personality will be on stage. And we’ve no doubts whatsoever that such famous themes as Moonlight Serenade, Getting Sentimental, Let’s Dance, and Star (Continued on page 12)
6
The Green Banner
By Jim Casey & "Buzz" Hassett
CHRISTMAS PREPARATIONS
are nearing completion on the campus — a big tree will be placed in the lobby of Sorin Hall, and Joe Mumane will have personal charge of hanging Freshmen from all the windows of the building. . . . The Glee Club will sing “I Wish I Were Home Tonight,” with lots of unction. . . . And Father Forrestal, with great ceremony, and unlimited satisfaction, will hang the gentlemen of the third floor on each limb of the tree as decorations (illuminating examples, you understand), and there is little or no danger of his running short of highlights. ... It is rumored that Old St. Nick will come sliding down one of the silos at exactly twelve o’clock. A watchman will be there to sign him in, of course. . . . Numbered among the presents will be: 1) Some laughs for the Green Banner; 2) another championship for Frank Leahy; and 3), perhaps, a few diplomas, if you fellows are good boys, (Oh, shame on us for even intimating otherwise!!). . . .
IT IS RUMORED
that the Gold Pick-and-Shovel Club of the “Rock” has again been organized . and is going full swing. To those of you uninitiated, we feel it necessary to offer an explanation that will thus put you on your guard — every' inmate over there is a charter member; and when she comes in after a date, she enters the Great Hall, and there tells the person on duty just how much money was spent on her. The girl with the highest amount at the end of each month gets a gold pin bearing the design of a pick and shovel with the accompanying inscription: “There’s a sucker born every minute.” Last week a new high was reached (§1.22). The general opinion of N.D. men was: “Here, here, easy on the finances, Bub!
LETTER TO SANTA
For Christmas I wanna new dolly. I prefer redheads.
Jack Herlihy.
HERE AND THERE
We see that Johnny Long is scheduled to play for the V-12 Ball on January. . . . By the latest count, there are about 600 civilian students on and off campus,. . . how about organizing a (Continued on page 13)
Complete Ball Details;
Present Service Souvenirs
By Pvt. John Conron
Members of the dance committee this week ironed out the final details for the gala Navy V-12 Ball to be held in the Navy drill hall Friday night, January 14, 1944. Dancing will be in progress from 2100 until 0100.
Co-chairmen of the ticket committee, Dick Steele and Pvt. John Sheahan, announced today that bids for the formal ball will go on sale Monday, January 3, 1944. They stressed the fact that sales will definitely be limited to 800 couples, thus insuring ample accommodations in the drill hall. A policy of “First come, first served” will be in effect, and no reservations will be accepted.
No Corsagos
General chairman of the Ball, Pvt. Bud Davis, again stressed the fact that girls should not wear corsages. Those who arrive at the dance with them will be asked to remove them before entering the hall. To prevent embarrassment to any party, V-12 trainees are asked to bear this in mind.
A salient feature of the last V-12 ball was the decoration scheme, and members of that committee are promising bigger and better things for January 14. Details of the decorations are being withheld, but workers declared at
Committee Members Gather Around Lieut. Collins
a recent committee meeting that the drill hall would definitely take on a nautical air for the Ball.
Girls attending the dance will be presented with souvenir programs which will serve as memorable keepsakes of the affair. Covers will be worked out in the colors of the branch of the service to which her escort belongs. Navy blue and gold programs will be given to the seamen and their partners while Marine couples will be remembered with the traditional scarlet and blue.
Transportation
On the evening of the Ball a special bus schedule calling for frequent trips from downtown South Bend directly to the drill hall will be in operation to accommodate couples attending the event. Seaman Joe O’Keefe of the transportation committee announced that special facilities for parking private cars will also be available.
A notice regarding transportation arrangements will be posted on company bulletin boards when final details have been worked out. Interested parties are asked to look for this bulletin in order to take advantage of the facilities offered.
For seamen and marines bringing out-of-town dates the Center will observe open house Saturday. The weekend will be climaxed with a- dance that night. A well-known orchestra has been engaged and a unique floor arrangement is promised by those in charge.
7
BY RICHARD MURPHY
WHO IS THIS GUY SANTA CLAUS?
tn years gone by you wouldn’t be reading this column today or I wouldn’t be endeavoring to supply you with a few chuckles — or frowns (whichever' way you look at it) for we’d all be home for a rest (?) and a visit with our parents (?) as well as a big time in general. For this time of the year was properly labeled “Xmas Vacation.” But war has changed all that here on the campus, and the best we can do now is to sit back and reminisce. It certainly does look as though we have been slipped the well known Green-Banana, but when you really come right down to it, fellows, we still have an awful lot to be thank-f’-l for this Christmas. All in all we are pretty lucky to be here when you stop to think of our buddies over there who will spend St. Nick’s day dodging bullets. Yes, we are lucky fellows, and should be thankful. There’ll be other* years when we can all be home—as for this year—here’s wishing you all a very MERRY CHRISTMAS!
HAVE you HEARD—
about the bond rally? When the band played the Wearing of the Green, fifty Irishmen jumped up and bought a thousand-dollar bond a-piece. When they played the White Cliffs of Dover fifty Englishmen stood up and bought the same amount of bonds. But when the band played There's a Gold Mine in the Sky, fifty Scotchmen went out and joined the Air Corps.
;—The Cormont
CHRISTMAS PRESENT
We would like to present our reasons why we believe the Scholastic would make an excellent Christmas present:
(1)	It will make a highly original gift—nobody else will ever think of giving the Scholastic.
(2)	It’s more dependable than the congressional record and almost as humorous.
(3)	It makes its .readers appreciate good humor.
(4)	It’s unique—you’ll never find anything else just like it!!!
(5)	It’s editor is a swell guy—just ask him if he isn’t.
(6)	It’s clean,—oh, boy, is it ever!
AS THE YEARS GO BY:
FROSH: uhuh.
SOPH: Yeah.
JR: Surely.
SR: After carefully considering the matter pro and con, and taking each possibility into consideration; and granting that my powers of comprehension are functioning properly, I may answer in the affirmative.
—The Toiver
WANTED—MORE CLASSROOMS!
Classes in the Engineering Building were a little confusing one day last week —so the Minnesota Daily tells us. Two very stubborn professors were assigned classes in the same room for the same hour. The classes met; each professor refused to give in to the other, so they both stayed. One lectured to his class on one side of the room and the other-class carried on in the other half—at the same time.
CHRISTMAS CHEER
Flaming neckties, shreiking socks!
Striped muffllers in a box!
Violent bathrobes, lurid shirts!
Rock’em! shock’em!
Give till it hurts!
<&<&*&<&&& *	❖
❖	IMPORTANT	❖
❖	------- ❖
❖	V-12	Naval	and	Marine	Trainees:	❖ '
❖	Please secure your rooms for guests ❖
❖	at the V-12 Ball as early as possible. & *•* The acute shortage of housing facili-❖ ties in South Bend makes this pre-❖ caution imperative.	❖
❖	—Dance Committee ❖
PRESENTS TO GIVE
THAT GIRL
(1)	A book of poetry—you know, that one you used last year in your poetry class.
(2)	A compact, preferably the one your Sweetbriar date gave you to take care of and you forgot to give back.
(3)	A bid to the Army game next year. You wont he able to get tickets, anyway.
(4)	A bottle of perfume. Your kid sister will have plenty of them left over from last Christmas.
(5)	An invitation to be your guest at Commencement next Spring. You’re safe; you haven’t a chance to graduate.
NEWS FLASH:
We understand that in the future, to avoid misunderstanding and embarrassment, pupils in Nazi schools will put their arm down when they wish to leave the room.
THE LOG
MEANIE!!!
The meanest man of the month is the Scotchman who told his children that Santa Claus was working in a defense • plant this year.
TO THE REAR MARCH—
Here’s a story that comes from Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn., via the Plainsman. One morning when the Marine and V-12 units were assembled for regular morning muster in the field house there was sustained, but obvious laughter among members of the front ranks. The chief petty officer who was receiving the reports of the absentees saw no just cause for any laughter anti asked the trouble. The members in the front ranks just pointed, and there, watching the proceedings with interest, from his position on the stage just behind the surprised chief, was a contented little skunk. Morning muster was dismissed earlier than usual, and the observer showed appreciation by keeping his trade secrets to himself.
❖
CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
I WISH YOU THE JOYS OF THE YULETIDE SEASON AND A BOTTLE OF SOMETHING TO KEEP YOU FROM SNEEZIN!
8
Notre Dame Sports
Irish Court Five Meets Purdue Tonight;
Wisconsin and Kentucky Teams Are Next
sprung another scoring flurry which spelled ultimate defeat for the Irish.
Thus Northwestern walloped Notre Dame for the first time since 1940. Klier and Kivisto sparked the Irish attack ■with eight and seven points respectively. Twenty-three personals were committed with Rutledge of Notre Dame and Ward of Northwestern being evicted via the four foul route.
BY JIM FENNELLY
Irish court activities for the next two weeks will be confined to foreign shores as the Notre Dame varsity makes a determined bid for midwest hoop recognition. Playing three games against topnotch clubs, the Irish will attempt to regain th sir high standing at the top of the college eagers.
Tonight and on January 3rd the Irish will play home and home games with the Boilermakers of Purdue. This team was unbeaten in two games before dropping a close one to the powerful Great Lakes eagers by a 58-52 score. The Boilermakers beat the DePauw V-5 outfit, a team composed of former college stars and pro ball handlers. Purdue has been content to win by four or five points, rather than play a wide open game. The Irish can well be proud if they hang these two in the victory column.
The second trip for the Irish invaders is Milwaukee, Wis., where they meet the Badgers of Wisconsin U. on December 31st in a two-game series. The Irish will try to duplicate the 41-31 defeat they handed Bud Foster’s quintet two weeks ago at Notre Dame. This court rivalry, which began in 1926, has seen the Blue and Gold on top in six out of eight contests. At the beginning of the season the Badgers were rated the best in the Big Ten and with good reason. Added to the three lettermen from last season’s team that dropped a thrilling 61-59 decision to Notre Dame, Coach Foster has acquired the services of several naval trainees, most of whom saw varsity action on eastern courts last season. Among these is Bob Gallagher, captain-elect of Cornell University and one of the highest scorers in Ivy League competition the past two seasons. When this outfit starts clicking it should be plenty of competition in any league.
The last stop in this blitz campaign will be at Louisville, Ky., the scene of one* of Notre Dame’s two defeats last season. The you-all boys from the Blue Ridge mountains really turned on the heat in that contest and ruined Irish hopes of victory in the first two minutes. The Cats, a rough and ready club, have reserves three deep and can stand
to lose the first five via the personal foul route and still have a team that can hold its own against any club. The Irish are out to avenge that defeat of last season and have been pointing for this game in all their practice sessions.
The Krausemen have shown steady improvement despite their two defeats and will make a creditable showing in the next two weeks.
Wildcats Top Irish, 48-32; Klier and Kivisto lead N.D.
By John Power
Paced by football-famous All-American Otto Graham, high scoring forward, Northwestern dealt Notre Dame its second defeat as they trounced the Irish, 48-32, before 8,000 spectators in their annual clash at the Chicago Stadium. Capt. Graham and Bernie Shadier contributed 32 points to the total, which enabled the Wildacts to chalk up their first victory of the year.
Shadier started the fireworks with three quick baskets in the opening minutes of play. Kivisto and Kelly countered for the Irish, Shadier got a free throw, and Todorovich scored on a tipin, as Notre Dame trailed 7-6. Northwestern continued to tally two-pointers, but 11 precious minutes elapsed before the Irish broke the ice to score on a mid-court shot by Ted Furman. Graham added two points, and the Wildcats led, 21-9, at halftime. The third period found Klier and Graham scoring from all angles. Graham racked up two free throws, Klier hit from far out, Ward scored from the side, and the Irish closed in as two consecutive baskets by Furman and another by Klier narrowed the margin to 25-12. Todorovich bagged a lone one for Notre Dame, and Shadier connected for the Purple. Klier tallied his third, fourth, and fifth baskets of the night, while Graham hit the hoop for four points to maintain Northwestern’s ten-point margin, 35-25. The Wildcats
NROTC Whips Knights of Pythias 49-29 for No. 3
The N.R.O.T.C. scored its third straight win of the season when it overwhelmed the South Bend Knights of Pythias of the Y.M.CA.. Class AA Municipal League, 49-29, Friday evening on the varsity court of the fieldhouse. Al Wade of the Irish cadets dropped in 18 points to lead the scorers and to boost his game average to 14.5 points.
The navy team experienced little trouble in subduing its city rivals and only when reserves were in the game did the attack slacken. The N.R.O.T.C. jumped into a 5-0 lead before the Knights countered three points on free throws but this was as close as they could come in the entire evening of play. The Notre Dame team turned on the steam and moved into a 17-7 lead at the end of the first quarter which was extended to 31-13 at half-time.
The reserves took over play at this point and the Irish attack almost came to a standstill as the Knights cut down the margin to 35-21 at the end of the third period. The starting N.R.O.T.C. line-up returned to the game and with Wade, Harry Gilligan, Tony Earley, AI Bohn and Frank Beaudine connecting for tallies the score quickly mounted to its final count of 49-29.	.
The line-ups:
Knights of Pythias, 29 NJLO.T.C.; 49
	B	F	p	B	’F	p
Goetz, f	5	0	2	Earley, f	3	0	2
Nevins, f	3	0	0	La Berge, f 0	0	0
Shaffer, f	0	0	0	Moore, f - 0	0	0
Barkalay, f	1	3	0	Gilligan, f 4	1	2
Kraft, f	0	0	0	Ledwith. f . 0	0	0
Bennett, e	2	0	0	Wade, c	9	0	2
Hostetler, g	2	0	2	Cronin, c	1	0	0-
Weigands, g	0	0	1	Bohn, g	4	0	1
		—		Houghteling. g 0	0	0
	13	3	5	Beaudine. g- 3 ’	0	0
				Kelly, g	. 0	0	0
				•	24	1	7
Knights of Pythias ------- 1	13	21	29
N. K. O. T. C. ___________17	31	35	49
' Official: Waddington.
.9
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Camp Grant’s cage quintet has four members of the Chicago locale, who have been very deciding factors in the
Bill Waddington
Warrior’s contests to date . . . John Nie-miera of Notre Dame, Stan Szukala of DePaul, and George Hogan and Mickey Rottner o f Loyola make up the quartet that scored 40 of the 55 points registered against Glenview. . . .
Nebraska’s Cornhuskers didn’t listen to
Horace Greeley’s words, “Go west, young man.” . . . Instead, they came east and were defeated by Iowa on Friday night, DePaul on Saturday evening, and then Minnesota on their return home Monday. . . . When the Associated Press voted Otto Graham in
over Angelo Bertelli, much criticism was aroused. . . . Since Bertelli made every other mythical eleven, the die-hard’s wouldn’t listen too attentively to the AP judgments. However, James Kearns of the Chicago Sun, came through with the best punch that probably put the AP sports experts into a dive: “If Bertelli, averaging .694 and passing for 511 yards, was just another passer, how then did the same judges decide that Otto Graham’s Big Ten record — 32 out of 63 passes, for a .508 average and 491 yards — was clearly All-America caliber?” quoth Kearns....
The University of Kentucky seems to have everything but the “kitchen sink” in this year’s array of court artistry. . . . They were one of the two clubs that “made us like it” last season, and if things remain the same on both squads as they appear at present, it looks as though the Blue Grass lads will be able to enjoy their mint julep after the N.D.-Kentucky clash in Louisville, Jnauary 8. . . . Pittsburgh turned out to be one of the six untied, undefeated college teams in the country, that is, Pittsburgh Teachers, of course. . . . Iowa State, despite a loss to Minnesota, is quickly becoming the favored quintet in the Big Six. . . . Piggy Lambert’s Purdue club, a la ’43 style, is comprised of 11 marines, five V-12 seamen, and seven civilians. . . . But this Purdue aggregation, unlike the football team, will number mostly true Boilermakers on the roster. ... If they can do as well
in the winter sport, they figure they can claim full credit instead of having to give about 75% of it away to other institutions such as was the case with the gridiron eleven. . . . Gettysburg and Dickinson colleges also vie for their so-called “Old Oaken Bucket” with their annual grid meeting; but this bucket is neither old, nor oaken, as it was made a few years ago of mahogany. . . .
Notre Dame’s basketball rivalry with Northwestern has resulted in 29 Irish wins, 14 losses, and one tie. . . . The N.D. scoring for the 43 meetings has amounted to 1,381 points while the Wildcats have amassed 1,206. . . . Bob Kelly’s participation in the Great Lakes game marked the only losing battle in which he has ever played. . . . Mike Smith and Dean Trump are fast becoming known as the “Gigantic Giraffes” by their teammates, since they both scale 6 feet 7 inches. . . . Last Saturday’s tiff with Northwestern became the only encounter thus far this season in which N.D. has used the services of only one center, that being Mike Todorovich. . . . Western Michigan, rapidly winning the title of “Giant-Killers of the mid-west,” employs the efforts of five V-12 transfers in their starting lineup. . . . After beating Notre Dame, Northwestern, and Michigan on successive week-ends, the Broncos have displayed antics similar to those demonstrated by the winning aggregation in the Rose Bowl game. ...
When Howard Wikel, captain-elect of the ’44 Wolverine diamond squad, leaves Ann Arbor later this month as an Army trainee, he -will be the fifth team captain of the 1943-44 season to leave for the armed forces. . . . The others were Paul White, football; Ralph Gibert, basketball; Dick Kopel, wrestling; and Walt Stewart, swimming..........
Predictions for the Week-end
Tonight: Purdue over Notre Dame. DePauw Navy over Freeman Field. St. John’s over Camp Upton.
Saturday: Western Kentucky over Brooklyn College. L.I.U. over Havana.
Bowl Games of January 1
Rose—Southern Cal over Washington. Cotton—Texas over Randolph Field. Sugar—Georgia Tech over Tulsa.
Orange—Texas A. & M. over L.S.U. Oil—Southwestern over Arkansas A.
& M.
From Locker Room Pep-Talks to Banquet Table Speeches
One of the rewards, or punishments as the case may be, of a successful season for football coaches is the large number of invitations for appearances on the well-known winter “banquet circuit.” This year was no exception and the members of the Notre Dame coaching staff have been deluged with requests for speaking engagements.
Head Coach Frank W. Leahy received 120 invitations and more are still being received. At the insistence of University authorities and medical advisers that he take a rest, Coach Leahy was able to accept less than 10 of these. Laryngitis which has been troubling him all season has returned and his doctor has forbidden any more committments.
Coach Leahy, however, has fulfilled most of his engagements. He spoke in Erie, Pa. for the benefit of the St. Joseph’s Orphanage early this month, as well as in Rochester, N. Y. for the benefit of Aquinas Institute at a sports’ night banquet. After putting in an appearance before the Birmingham Quarterbacks Club, he was the guest of Arch Ward on the latter’s sports program Friday evening, Dec. 13.
Leahy’s next four appearances were in Michigan on Dec. 15, 16, and 18. On Dec. 15 he spoke before the Executives Club of Saginaw, and the following night at a program sponsored by the Catholic Weekly honoring the teams of the seven high schools in the vicinity of Saginaw. The Quarterbacks Club of Detroit honored him on Dec. 18 when he was presented the Don Scott Trophy as the Coach of the Year. He was chosen coach of the year by vote of the 3000 members. That evening he was the principal speaker at the banquet of Central Catholic High School, Toledo, O., was the next stop on his swing of the Mid-West where he attended a banquet of Waite High school where the football teams of every public and parochial high school in the city were the guests.
Coach Leahy has not been the only traveling member of the staff. Backfield Coach Ed McKeever has made probably the most appearances to date but Coaches Devore, Kline, Krause and Ziemba have not been without engagements. They probably will make many more visits to the banquet table before the winter circuit closes its season. Coach Leahy, however, is expected to go south during the month of January to rest after the lengthy season.
10
Marine Murmurs
By Private Knoc-E Toff
t- In the true spirit of Yuletide this column has requested that Santa deliver the following presents:
Track shoes for Pvt. Opela and company.
k- 24-hour extension on the Christmas liberty.—
A ticket on the “Superman” express for all the boys who live on the west coast.
An ability to “hold it” for the Pvts, on the second floor in Zahm.
A girl for lonely Pvt. Waters.
Muscles for Pvt. Zuska.
A few lessons on the art of playing handball for Pvt. Deist.
A couple of enjoyable books for Pvt. Magioli to while away his weekends.
An ability to appeal to a blonde for Pvt. Veenstra.
To the seamen in the V-12 here, a chinstrap to hold their “Donald Duck” caps on.
To the NROTC, a little more gold braid on their dress uniforms.
k A special “low flying” bus to leave the Blarney Room at 0050 Sunday for the “middies.”
A salute from the Marines to all the civilians, professors, Fathers, Brothers, and University personnel.
A letter from Purdue for Pvt. Kes-r sler.
A girl-friend for “The Bowl” Hyndman.
The same for the Marine Associate Editor.
A set of muscle developers and a mir-k ror for Pvt. Gunnar Hald.
A louder voice for Pvt., Hollar to count cadence.
An official “o-k” to the girls in the dining hall to slip the Marines an extra dessert in chow line.
To the citizens of South Bend a most sincere thank you for the Service Men’s Center and the hospitality with which you have treated us.
A Merry Christmas To All!
Strictly on the Level:
There will be no security watches or duty in Walsh Hall over the Christmas holidays.
In the near future the Marine detachment may expect a clothing inspection during their drill hour on Saturday.
Fellows who are planning it close between trains on Christmas leave had better get back by 0700 Monday or else—!
A good idea for any fellows importing girls for the coming dance would be to make reservations for hotel rooms now.
Bishop O'Hara Confirms
Ten N.D. Men Saturday
At nine o’clock on Saturday morning, Bishop John F. O’Hara, Titular Bishop of Milasa and Military Delegate, confirmed ten Notre Dame students at Sacred Heart Church. The ten men were V-12 Navy and Marine trainees and civilians. Those who received the Sacrament were: Robert Horton, Pvt. Art Lau, Seaman James McCutcheon, Seaman Jack Pearl, Harry Williams, Pvt. James Farragher, Frederick Richer, James Ringling, Pvt. Robert Blair, and William McCarty.
His Excellency, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, is a former president of the University, holding the office from 1934 to 1940. In January of 1940, the then-President O’Hara was consecrated Titular Bishop of Milasa, and designated an auxiliary to the Archbishop of New York as the Military Delegate.
Marines Build Crib for Zahm
Pvt. Larry Ryan and Pvt. Dick Mam-ple, both of the U.S. Marine Corps, have revived the spirit of the ancient crusaders. Recently they got the idea of building a Christmas Crib for Zahm Hall chapel. Using only a few tools and a small quantity of material, they built a sizable crib flanked with pine trees.
After working over preliminary plans, Larry and Dick got together, and in the fashion of the best architects made a miniature model of the project. Having a good idea of what the crib would look like, they obtained a few pieces of beaver-board from the University car
penter shop and went to work. Using a hammer, a saw, an angle and a pencil, the two Marines cut and assembled a well-fashioned replica of the original Christmas manger. After throwing in about six Marine hours of work (A Marine hour is a little more than a man hour) the Christmas crib, painted gleam-ingly white, was placed in Zahm Hall chapel. Later with the help of John Mahlum. they put up a background of pine trees and arranged lighting and figures in the straw-strewn manger.
Building such things is nothing new for Private Mample. Working with wood was his hobby before the war. Before joining the Marines, his hobby brought him a Navy contract for wood parts on ships.
C. A. S. Plans Student
Dance for Christmas Night
A Notre Dame student dance will be given on Christmas Night in St. Joseph’s School Hall, corner of Hill and Colfax. Bud Simpson and his ten-piece orchestra will be featured in the last school dance of ’43. Admission will be 50 cents per person, tax included, with a Christmas present for each student. For the first time there will be a Grand March with all those present participating. Refreshments will be served and several novelty dances are planned.
—Bill Roberts
Scannell, Phy-Ed Head, Wins Annual $500 Faculty Prize
The Faculty Prize of $500, awarded annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was won this year by John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education. The award is given yearly to a member of the faculty who "has rendered distinguished service.
Mr. Scannell, who has done excellent work in setting up the large and complex system of Physical Education classes, which has been necessary in view of the 1800 V-12 men requiring daily classes, has been a member of the University faculty since 1929. He holds the degree of B.S. in P.E., from East Stroudsburg State Teachers College, 1927; A.M. from New York University, 1929; and Ed.D. from Indiana University, 1940.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Mr. Scannell was supervisor of health education at Easton, Pennsylvania, in 1925-26; and from 1927 to 1929 he was direct- 1 or of physical education and athletics at the Saunders Trade School in Yonkers, New York.
II
Interhall Basketball to Start
Both the Overflow and Interhall League will open their schedules on Wednesday, December 29, in the Rockne Memorial gymnasium. No schedule has been drawn up as yet but the list of opening games will be posted on all the bulletin boards the first of next week.
The practice sessions for most teams last week were well attended but few drills were held this week, because the majority of the students took advantage of their “‘cuts” in classes and went home a few days in advance of Christmas. From the spirit and ability shown by players in both leagues, keen competition is anticipated.
Twelve teams have entered the Overflow League which is expected to rival the Interhall League for enthusiasm. The four civilian halls on the campus have entered teams in both the heavy and light divisions of the Interhall circuit. As yet no Off-Campus teams have been formed, due evidently to their small number.
The Overflow League is expected to be a -wide-open race with at least half of the teams right in the thick of the fight for top honors. Breen-Phillips and Brownson have had the largest number of aspirants for their teams and if only because of this fact they must be rated highly. St. Ed’s and Sorin, the halls of the upperclassmen, are also expected to floor strong teams despite their small number of candidates.
left school to look back on and see how good the Notre Dame teams really are.”
Bob Dunn, civilian from Joliet, Ill.: “It was undoubtedly the best this year — a real tribute to a great team.”
Bill Lansing, V-12 seaman from Minneapolis, Minn.: “It was a swell issue, well worth keeping.”
H. B. Learish, midshipman from Johnstown, Pa.: “Of all the issues out, this is the one I’ll keep; it’s a swell thing for us to have around to remember the games we’ve seen.”
Jack Herlihy, N.R.O.T.C. from New London, Conn.: “Greatest issue in the last three years.”
George Mobille, civilian from Lorain, Ohio: “It was swell, something different. It presented just the facts, without trying to flatter the team.”
STEHLIN'S VICTORY BAND (Continued from page 6)
Dreams will be heard. On this we give you our word, and we are willing to offer our best pair of brown tux shoes that we are right (and don’t think this writer doesn’t own a pair).
We are not kidding. If you miss John Stehlin and the men of music that he ■will present, you are making a grave mistake. We told you this last semester and you voted us your favorite tipster when you turned out one thousand strong to dig the Victory Band. Now we are telling you again, and confidentially this is a better outfit than last year’s.
See you all there. Don’t forget the date, January the fifth; the time will be announced later.
Students, Trainees Have Praise for Football Issue
By Pvt. Sam Miller
What is your opinion of the SCHOlastic football issue? That was the question asked in a poll of students and trainees. And the opinion seems to be almost unanimous that it is one of the best issues in recent years. One man, who refused to give his name, said that it could be better, but he was the only dissenter. Many of the midshipmen said , they had not yet had a chance to see the issue. But those who had gave their approval.
Here is what the students say:
Robert E. Hall, Marine from Birmingham, Iowa: “I thought it was a swell issue, one of the best I’ve ever seen. In fact, I bought three extra to send home.”
Bill Fraser, V-12 seaman from Park Ridge, Ill.: “It’s the best one yet.”
E. H. Ryerson, Marine from Jefferson, Iowa: “Best yet.”
John Zwicker, N.R.O.T.C. from Appleton, Wis.: “I thought it was a swell issue, especially for fellows who have
“Did you know that only Arrow Shirts have Arrow Collars?"
Arrow collars have the happy faculty of flattering any wearer and giving the utmost comfort at the same time. They lie smooth and stay fresh throughout the day.
Other quality features of Arrow shirts are the Mitoga figure-fit construction, with narrowed waist, sloping shoulders, and tapering sleeves; and the Sanforized label which guarantees that an Arrow shirt won’t shrink more than an infinitesimal 1%.
Whether you’re in uniform or tweeds, you’ll find Arrows to fit your needs! §2.24, up.
SHIRTS »T1ES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS ★ BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
12
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 7) dance of our own? Could it be that our social life is to be rationed, too? . . . The fan mail has been pouring in lately; but we’re still not going to quit.
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
Will it be turkey again for Christmas? If so, get your reservation in early.
WE GET AROUND
and recently happened in on a rehearsal of John Stehlin’s “ork” billed as the campus sensational Victory Band. Believe us; it is just that — a victory for the earnest efforts of this musician and his boys. Anyone missing their “Opening” in Washington Hall on January 5, is strictly off the beat.
EPISODE NO. 234567889
The seconds were ticking away as Bob Gantner came shooting across the campus. Said he to himself: “That last one at George’s took longer than I expected. I don’t mind splurging on a cab to get back to this joint on time, but I wonder if the cab driver has noticed that I shortchanged him. . . . Had to, I’m short-changed myself.” Chuckling away at his adroitness in matters financial, Bob was approaching Sorin Hall. To save a fraction of a second he cut “ across the Quad Lawn. He failed to see the length of wire stretched knee high adjacent to the sidewalk. He hit the wire at full speed, pulled a Superman and took to the air. The night watchman (accustomed to most anything at all) was about; to close the door as Gant, circling zfor a landing, slapped his X on the boat and collapsed in a heap in Sorin’s Hallway, just as the clock finished booming midnight. Bob had managed to sign in before twelve, and so was not penalized. But inside information has it that he will be recuperating in the Infirmary for the next week or two. Merry Christmas, old boy! Incidentally, you set a new record for low diving. . . .
FAREWELLS
To Jim Mello, gentleman of Sorin Sub, erstwhile of Frank Leahy’s backfield, and now of the U.S.N. Air corps. ... To Pat Yocklavich who is leaving for Yale, another inspiration to all who knew him. The luck of the Irish (?) to both of ye!	'
OVERHEARD AT WALGREENS
“He’s not a Foreign Commerce man; he was bom and raised in South Bend!
. . . Tony Bristle lost his Money and Banking notes; as a result six other members of his class face failure. (No, they were not crib notes. . . .) Then there’s the one about the boxer who began taking VITamin pills; but they did no good — he hasn’t won a VIT since. . . . The male shortage is really striking home. . . . (To the belles of St. Mary’s): “T.A. That truckload of mistletoe you purchased was just a waste of funds. It would have been anyway, male shortage or not!”. . . . “Bud Turner walked into my room, helped himself to my new suit, took a clean shirt from my locker, and walked out with a tie that is my pride and joy. Before he left for town he came back and borrowed my money. (I wonder where he spent that quarter).
WE HAVE OBSERVED
• that on week-ends, the lads who live off-campus never get down town until late Saturday afternoon. That’s the day they make their beds. . . . And speaking of the smooth-shoes who live off-campus, most of them declare that they drink only to be sociable. Haw! it is rumored that a certain department on campus regards them as the most sociable group in school, too!
. . . Last night we performed an old Yuletide chore — the trimming of the tree — at Otto’s. No casualties to report, but a very pleasant time, if you please, in spite of the St. Mary’s atmosphere about the place. All of which goes to show that we can/ when pushed,
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
rise above our surroundings. Furthermore, we’d like to go on record as declaring that when better “geese” are garnished, it will be done in Kitty’s kitchen. The 85-cent Blue Plate Special was worthwhile, even though we took $20 worth of abuse from the Rockettes who hovered nearby and found fault with every bell we hung on the tree. We had a good notion to say: “There are other belles who might easily hang from this tree, and will hang, if they don’t pipe down,” — but this is Christmas, men, and we should watch our tongues, and try to spread a little Christmas cheer, even where the Bock is involved. And so we kept our big mouths shut — wonderful to report!
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“So long, gang; we’ll be seeing you after New Year’s. And a very Merry Christmas to you, too!”
Company Commanders
to Get Special Brassards
According to navy bulletin 157, company commanders in the V-12 unit will soon receive special brassards which they may wear on the campus to denote their position.
The brassard will consist of a band of navy standard blue cloth surcharged with symbols, V-12, over one, two, or three stripes.
These will be awarded to the company commanders as soon as the brassards are received from Great Lakes.
13
OBSERVATIONS
By Lieut. S. L. Beatty. U.S.N.R.
Men in need of rapidly improving .their reading efficiency and their other habits of study might profit much from reading several times and putting into practice the simple, well-tested techniques in the following short manuals. Both are available at the University bookstore for fifteen cents each. Both are written by Professor C. Gilbert Wrenn of the University of Minnesota, now a lieutenant in the Training Division of the Navy Department. The titles are: "Practical Study Aids/' and “How to Read Rapidly and Well.” The coeditor of the brief manual on silent reading is Luella Cole. Both manuals are published by Stanford University Press. Civilians and Navy trainees bought out- the first order, but a new
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
A CHRISTMAS SUGGESTION FOR A NOTRE DAME GIFT
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS—S5 the Set
Notre Dame — 100 Years
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell
University Press, Notre Dame, Ind.
supply of fifty copies has been ordered by the Bookstore.
Seamen who entered on active duty in the V-12 College Program with no. advanced standing and are taking the prescribed basic program of studies will be classified as to their upper-class specialties during their second semester of study. Those who began their studies in the basic prescribed rogram on 1 November will be classified as to their future specialties in education during their second semester. The men who entered the prescribed curriculum on 1 November with only one semester of advanced standing will be classified during the present semester. Approximately 300 seamen and 65 Marines are being classified this semester on the basis of their first team’s work, their scores on the Navy Achievement Test, and other ratings. Classifying officers are instructed by the Bureau of Naval Personnel to consider carefully the preferences the trainees have expressed in writing, and wherever their records support their preferences they are recommended for their preferences in the order in which they were stated by the trainees. Those being classified this semester will receive the results of the process during the last week of February 1944.
When the new quota for the Navy Air Cadets is opened in January 1944, a Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board is expected to visit the station to examine those trainees who seek transfer to V-12a which is the same as V-5, Aviation, those being considered first who expressed a preference for aviation at the time of their enlistment. No information on the details or date of the visit has been received, and there is no application to be filed as yet on this subject. The quota is still closed until announcement is received in January when it will be published on station in the muster announcements. Those now classified as V-12a will, upon completion of their second term of college work since entering the V-12 Program from inactive duty classified as V-5 or V-12a, be transferred from this station to training in Naval aviation. The great majority of V-5 or V-12a enlistees are first sent to V-12 colleges for two terms before being sent to any Naval aviation training unit.
To Aid Captain
Seaman Harry Strong and Marine Private Bob Curley have been named aides to Capt. J. Richard Barry. Their duties will be to act as personal assistants to the captain.
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management of Josie and Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe
601 N. Niles Avenue
Phone 3-0678
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
gags
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
14


the. OU MaeAbto-
TRY
THE NAVY CANTEEN FIRST!
Jlene ^ what w-e hau-e:
CANDY CIGARETTES COCA-COLA CIGARS GUM
ZERO DECK
DINING HALL
THE SNOOPER
(Continued from page 6)
It’s like this: Giza (an ex-Seebee) went to church (really!) with a girl (oh) while on liberty. They met some of the young lady’s friends, and the girl’ decided to introduce him to her friends. She started out fine — “Mr. Blank, may I present my friend, Mr.— ah— (say, how do you pronouce your name—/Is?. . . .?). Giza then gathered presence of mind enough to assist the befuddled little girl. “Asidorian,” said he, “remember it?” “Remember it, I can’t even pronounce it!” said she. After much dickering back and forth, it was finally agreed to give him “Jones” for a handle. Poor Giza — he wants to know why his name is so difficult to pronounce, when there are names like Bienkowski, Czarobski, and Szymanski running around with practically complete absence of challenging the title of “tongue twister.”
She was observed last pay day. Who? Why the lady who answers the question: Where did they get the idea for the song “Pistol Packin’ Mama?” She was observed by all the V-12 lads who were “paid” in Dillon Hall. One lad by the name of . . . (censored due to possible complications) gathered together his vocal cords and started singing the song! When he saw the infuriated look in the woman’s eyes, he immediately quieted down — much to the befuddle-ment of said female.
At last we see Jim Masterson (Co. E, 251 Dillon) in his true character. Last Friday evening this Masterson lad was seen scooting around the dining hall in a milk cart — no less. Fellows, you must be very careful what you say in front of Kid Masterson, you might be arrested for contributing to juvenile delinquency.
I wonder why the renowned John Toole had his girl’s picture in the Scholastic Office? In his room he has a picture frame, and in this frame is the following notation:
“To Whom it May Concern:
“The picture that belongs here has gone up in smoke, due to the fire in the Scholastic Office. :
"I assure you, that when this space is occupied once again, it will be adorned with the face of a beautiful girl.
Sincerely,
John L. Toole.”
Drop into his room (387, Dillon Hall) sometime, and see this . . . ah . . . decoration for yourself!
Oh yes, please believe me fellows, this Toole does not write this column, as many of you seem to believe. As far as I know, he has absolutely nothing to do with the Scholastic.	.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. "T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJ>.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Blds.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist.
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-25674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bld., South Bend. Ind. ,
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 . Sherland Building .
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X RAY LABORATORY
’	825 Sherland Building .	-
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
15
. -i
MTH THE BOYS...It’s
Chesterfield
f°RTHCOMING y-FOV
BETTY GRABLE
STARRING in the
20 ~ CEN TUX
„	PICTURE
PIN-UP GIRr

-T £ 1 ;•£ '£ ■ll 5V
You see Chesterfields everywhere these days*-and why? Because they are milder and better-tasting and no wonder . . . Chesterfields are made of the best tobaccos that grow. And that’s not all — it’s the blend —the Right Combination of these tobaccos that makes Chesterfield / the cigarette that
r£8sT0
