The Modern Gilbert's — “One Man Tells Another"
Hank
Don
Zeke
Walt
r O R
R G E
O R
E

South Bend’s Largest Stock of McGregor Sportswear
Free Taxi Service From Down Town To Gilberts Home of Famous Names in Men’s Quality Clothing
GILBERTS
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET

2
LETTERS
।
i_________________________________i
Sunday, Sept. 22, 1946 Dear Editor:
The first issue was swell, but what the magazine needs is a good B-BAG like the one in the E.T.O. “Stars and Stripes.” We could use one this year with our gripes. One especially—Leahy’s secret practice session which has dropped student spirit to a low low. How ’bout that?
A Vet in
204 Zahm
216 A lumni
Dear Sir:
In response to the plea of the author of that rollicking column “Campus Club,” for something comparable to Gus Kelly’s “devastating” missive of last term (as Mr. Olwell refers to it) please allow me to get some very weighty items off my chest, shallow as it may be. In regards to the Met-Club Clambake that came off (fizzled ’be more like it) in N. Y. C. this past June, this kid made the mistake of being there. I don’t much care about the hundred guys that didn’t show. What I’m concerned about is the time those experienced that attended. Believe me it was rather painful.
To begin with if those stiffs that Mr. Olwell refers to as our entertainment were from J. Fred Coots (who’s he anyway) Show, then somebody should pay for Mr. Coots to either give up or take his little troupe down to the Bowery where maybe, maybe mind you, they might be appreciated. We came there to dance, not to have our ears bended by a bunch of vaudeville refugees. Those interested may get a much better version at the Metropole of Rogers’ Corners.
The band wasn’t bad when they played. (Every ten minutes some ham was butting in with a joke of 1908 vintage).
Anybody with anything more than a Section 8 I. Q. knows that nobody shows at these deals till 10 o’clock. Yet this big deal of the Met Club knocked off at 1 A. M. Maybe we’ve got a curfew or something!! I don’t know.
Oh Yes!! The service. The jernt was equipped with a grand fleet of about three waiters to take care of the thirst item. We, upon almost giving an arm and a leg, succeeded in getting two drinks in only three hours time and our mob wasn’t Charter Members of the W.C.T.U. Believe me a wild time was had by all.
Will Harrs (Continued on Page 28)
Let s Get Acquainted
FREE...
Smokes and handy Cigarette Case to every N. D. man who registers
at our store.
FREE...
CIGAR STORE on the Main Street Side
Any $5.00 Pipe or $5.00 in Books to every 50th N. D. man who reg-
isters.
OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 12th
NEWS CENTER on the Washington Street Side
BRUGGNER’S
MAIN AND WASHINGTON
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY...FAMOUS ADDRESS
3
football
NEWS & PICTURES
...every Sunday
Here’s big news for sport fans! It’s news about an 8-PAGE FOOTBALL SECTION in The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY during the 1946 football season.	.
This bigger and better sports section will give you a complete coverage of college, prep school and pro football. It will be cram-packed with action and diagrammed pictures, scores and stories.
Be sure to get The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY and see the big 8-page football section, with stories by Warren Brown and a staff of noted sports writers.

CHICAGO SUNDAY SUN
4
€<!■»<< PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
ON THE HOME FRONT ...
In the local clip joint the other day, one of the barbers piped up with “Who nex?”
A freshie blushed and answered, “I do, once in a while.”
And then there’s the irate prof who broke down one day in class and said, “I don’t mind if I see a student fidget toward the end of the hour. I don’t mind seeing him take out his watch and look at it. But when he takes out his watch, looks at it, puts it to his ear, and shakes it—that makes me sooooo mad.” Tough apples, prof old boy!
Vince Scott walked into his room and found his cell-mate, Al Mosca, writing a letter.
Scott: “Writing your girl, Al?”
Mosca: “Yeah.”
Scott: “Make me a carbon copy, will you?”
A Sunday afternoon tea dance at you know where inspired this literary gem:
“Your face is like a peach,” he said
She blushed beneath her bonnet, Nor dreamed he meant to say it had
Superfluous fuzz upon it.
❖
CHAMPAIGN BUBBLES ...
Due to the fact that in Johnny Lu-jack and Ziggy Czarobski we have two outstanding outdoor leaders (or should we say woodchoppers) Notre Dame was able to defeat Illinois last Saturday, despite the fact that the Indians were led by that celebrated “woodsman” Perry Moss. Those of you who journeyed down for the game were witnesses to the fact that our “representative” team of “coachable lads,” who should not lose more than foui- games all season (?), scalped the Indians and stopped the celebrated Claude “My Buddy” Young. We’re all looking forward to that encounter between our boys and the kay-dets come November 9th . . .
That weekend at Illinois has taught our N.D. boys another. After a purely scientific tour of the campus, it was noted that although coeducation was once a race for supremacy between the sexes, it’s now neck to neck . . .
ON FOREIGN FIELDS ...
From Purdue we hear that Fred Waring is going to make an appearance there with his Pennsylvanians. We should care! With our own Notre Dame Glee Club, what use would we have for Fred Waring?
1st convict: “What are you in for?”
2nd convict: “Rockin’ my wife to sleep.”
1st convict: “But they can’t put you in here for that.”
2nd convict: “Yeah? You should’ve seen the size of them rocks.”
❖
“I don’t belive in Darwin’s theory of evolution.”
“Neither do I. I think some woman made the first monkey out of man.”
❖
Any girl can be gay
In a classy coupe
In a taxicab all can be jolly.
But the girl worth while
Is the girl who can smile
When you’re taking her home on the trolley. Auburn Plainsman
❖
A recent announcement put out by the Treasury Department states that according to the cash in circulation, the average person has $200.35—I have 17 cents, so someone on this campus is -walking around loose with $400.53.
❖
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS . ..
Alimony—taxation with representation. Football fan—one who knows the nationality of every player on the All-American team.
Girdle manufacturer—one who lives off the fat of the land.
JUST "STUDENT COUNCIL"
In the future the Student Activity Council will be called officially the Student Council. This is a result of the last meeting when it was decided that the council might just as well follow the popular trend of campus conversation and simplify its name.
PALAIS ROY ALE
THE GOLDEN TO

FRANKIE
CARLE
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
After the Game
Sat.. Oct. 5th
PALAIS ROYALE BALL ROOM SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Five Minutes More Careless Cincinnati Lou Tempo's Boogie All That Glitters Is Not Gold
IATEST TUNES
Copp's Music Shop
. 122-24 E. Wayne St
5
THE WEEK * by Bill Braun
most likely be the Badin Bogger, who have plays figured out to slide rale accuracy, but are having hard luck finding a jockey for their dark horse.
ETHICS OR . . .
TOP OF THE WEEK
ND chow makes hair grow.
LOCO BOY MAKES GOOD
After the Champaign uncorking sortie last Saturday of Golden Dome rooters, Saturday afternoon quarterbacks, and members of the alumni gathered in their favorite spots all over the city to celebrate the Irish victory. Highlight of the parties was a little gathering at McGuires where Bill “Dynamic” Stockman entertained the inimitable Pat O’Brien A few tables down the line Tom Curry was doing a little harmonizing with a fellow who, Tom noticed, had a very fine voice. The next day Tom was surprised to learn that his vocal partner had been Morton Downey.
FORWARD . . . MARCH
GHQ missed the boat and the ND band sweated out the Illini offensive on condition one, but failed to be moved to the front. Though never really on the march, some one was certainly out of step.
POME
I dreamt I dwelt in Sorin Sub,
A room so bright, with shower and tub. No heating pipes to bump my head, Twenty maids to make my bed.
This I dreamt of Sorin Sub
Which is to say ... a nightmare BUB.
the bacon . . . too bad there wasn’t enough to go around.
ATOMIC AGE
In this new and revolutionary age. where so many things are being done by machine, or in a machine like manner, the suggestion has been made that the Notre Dame football team adopt a mechanical mascot . . . for example, a motorcycle, and call it Crash-More Bike.
INTRA MURDER NOTES
Although the inter-hall tennis match will be a mutual meet for the campus cards to bridge their athletic rivalry, it’s a poor game to sluff off aces. It will prove a good opportunity to operate a racket and receive faculty approval.
In the lengthening shadows of tne stadium each afternoon, the shrill squeak of a maturing voice coughing signals of a grandstand quarterback’s brainstorm announce that another hall eleven has placed its offering on the shrine of good sportsmanship. The dark horse team will
In Ethics class Father Ward said that art is the developed habit of making. According to this definition all the wolves that prowl the Walgreen beat on Saturday nights can be classified as accomplished artists.	,
RESEARCH
Was the crowd gathered in front of the dome Friday afternoon really waiting to see Pat O’Brien? It seems that’s the hour when all the stenos punch the clock and parade down the main stairway for the bus stop. On second thought maybe it was just a geometry class on a research tour.
TRANSLATED . . . MEANS
Translated into a more prosaic version, last week’s editorial should have read, “Be good little fellows on the trolley ride and maybe the motorman will give you all a nice red lolly-pop.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Hair- cuts . . . $1.00 . . . Campus Barber Shop.
QUOTE OF THE WEEK
In all sincerity, Bob Conaty burst into a Bull Session and blurted out that all the varsity had to do to become national champs was to score more points than the opponents in each game. Guess you’re right, Bob, there probably won’t be any forfeits this season.
❖
ONE-ACT PLAY
SENIOR (With tongue in cheek): “How did you find the meat today?”
Soph: (With success story enthusiasm): “Just moved a bean, and there it was.”
Thanks to the team for bringing home
Another Headquarters for ARROW
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
6
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
M THE COMiEK... HKHI6MI ( WKUMOTON
De Gustibus
Non
Disputandum
There’s no law against going around dressed in seven Arrow oxford stripe neckties . . . and you really have to admire this fellow’s individuality.
You can display your good taste by buying just one or two of these eye-catching striped ties in authentic college colors. Only $1 at your Arrow dealer.
Might as well get a matching handkerchief while you’re at it. Then your getup will be indisputably O.K.
Dr. Manion Awarded Achievement Scroll
By GEORGE McCARTHY
For his conspicuously diligent work in the worlds of judicature and mental cultivation, Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of Notre Dame's College of Law, was awarded the scroll of achievement in recognition of outstanding success in the law and the humanities at a smoker held Thursday night, Sept. 26, at the Indiana Club by the Notre Dame Law Club. More than 100 members and guests . attended the smoker, the first club event of the current semester.
John D. O’Neill, senior from Michigan City, Ind., and president of the Law Club, made the presentation to Dean Manion. The award is the first in a series to be presented periodically to outstanding Notre Dame Law School graduates.
In accepting the scroll, Dean Manion lauded University administrators for their unstinted cooperation in Law Club affairs, particularly the efforts of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame. Dean Manion highlighted his acceptance speech by emphasizing the importance of a close relationship between law students and law school graduates of Notre Dame. To achieve this unity, he stated, every member of the Law Club must exert his full and concentrated energy.
In presenting the award, O’Neill, who presided at the smoker, revealed the major part played by Dean Manion in keeping the Notre Dame Law School in operation just prior to and during the war, making possible the resumption of interrupted studies by returning veterans. The complete success of Dean Manion’s work is numerically evident in the enrollment increase of the Law School.
Sidelighting the presentation of the scroll was a football discussion by Bernie Crimmins, in which the former Notre Dame All-American and present backfield coach desci-ibed Fighting Irish prospects on the 1946 gridiron trail.
Law Club officers are John O’Neill, president; Fred Hoover, vice-president; Howard Essick, secretary; Jack Barry, treasurer; and Mike Haines, freshman representative.
*Tbere is no disputing about tastes.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
GRADUATE STUDENTS
One-hundred copies of this issue of the SCHOLASTIC is being held for graduate students who are not on the mailing list. The copies may he picked up in the Publications Office. 118 Main Building.
7
THE fiOTRE DfifflE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Vidimus	,
Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867
IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIlllHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIItHIIHIHHIIIIIUIIIII
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber .	H. Smith Keel
niiiiiiiitunii miiiiiiii nut iiihiiii itiiiiiiiiiiiiititieitt Hiiiiiximti nit t
James Clemens_______________________________News	Editor
Frank Keenan__________Associate News Editor
Joe Cheney Sports	Editor
Joe Wilcox Feature Editor Jim Ferstel ________________Photographic	Editor
Frank Cacciapagilia_______Assoc. Photo Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock_________________________Ed Snyder
Cover by Jim Ferstel, with Ziggy Cza-robski as speaker at last week's pep-rally.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
___________________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, John Denniston___________Circulation
M. E. Varga__________________________Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Pictures on pages 12, 21, 22, 23 by Jim Ferstel, O'Brien- picture on page 9 by Jim McLaughlin. Picture on page 25 by Al Kuntz. Pep -Rally and St. Mary's feature by Frank Cacciapagilia.
tmiimtiiiiiiiimmammiiiiiiiimiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiitmiiiiiiiU'
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,- 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — Sin Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
the	jbedJz . . .
Our Face Is Red
Last week Jerry Olwell, who writes the column Campus Clubs and usually turns in a workmanlike job, expressed some opinions concerning the ticket office and their handling of Army ducats for the parents of students in and around New York which were erroneous.
The Scholastic wishes at this time to make a retraction of those statements and a formal apology to the ticket office, as well as acquaint the students with the real facts of the case in order to squelch the ugly rumors currently running riot on the campus.
Last May, Fred Hoover of the Student Council approached Bob Cahill, the ticket manager, with the idea of securing tickets for the Army game for the parents of students then in the Univer-* sity.
Mr. Cahill bent over backwards in cooperating with Fred on this venture, since Notre Dame’s share of tickets are annually committed to alumni and friends of the University, by guaranteeing two tickets for the exclusive use of parents of students who lived within a radius of 200 miles of New York.
As it is, all the parents of those students who submitted their names to the Student Council received applications for the Army game during the summer and were taken care of as promised by Mr. Cahill, even though many did not comply with the directions as outlined.
According to Fred Hoover, Mr. Cahill and the ticket office were most cooperative in a matter in which they were certainly under no obligation, and it is the fault of the Met Club or the students concerned if they have not procured their tickets.—James A. Clemens, Jr.
NoO PA
It is not as if anybody would actually miss one dime, but it is a well known fact that milkshakes cost exactly ten cents less in downtown South Bend than they do here on the campus. Not only that, but you get more for your money on Michigan Street. To the student who doesn’t have a sackful this expenditure adds up rather rapidly in a week’s time. There are probably fifteen thousand sales of this item each week. That is quite a bit, isn’t it? The money making concerns downtown obviously are not going into the red. Why can’t the student be given an even break?
The "Scholastic's” Policy
We wish to take this opportunity to state definitely the policy of your Scholastic for the school year. The paper aspires and intends to be the voice of the students insofar as is journalistically possible. By being the voice of the students we do not intend to be a source of rumor. Our reporters hear many rumors and often spend hours chasing them down. Surprisingly, most of them turn out to be mere shadows. If, however, some semblance of truth is culled from the many unauthenticated stories it is used in the next issue, if it is pertinent and involves the students’ interest. We publish news and a resume of the incidents of the week past and for this we need facts, not the rabid hearsay that infiltrates the conversations of any campus group wherever it may be. We try to' adopt a non-partisan attitude toward all items, whether it is the politics of .a given club or the gripes of the student body. We are not a daily newspaper and as a result the things that make the copy are at best a survey of the week’s activities. Nor are we a literary review, and we try to avoid having any characteristic to that effect.
We have the right to publish anything that comes into our hands so long as it is the truth, that is not offensive or detrimental to the character of any person or persons, and so long as it is representative of the true Notre Dame spirit.
Expressions of opinion are confined to the editorials, which are in fact our policy, and also to the columns which are the product of individuals who do their best to check any and all facts that go into their copy. This is insisted upon; but they may say what they please for or against any issue that they may consider to be in their realm. In fact, it is their job to take a definite stand on their subjects. To them truth is always stressed and they are liable to the editors only for the correctness of their copy. Naturally these columns do not reflect the editorial conviction and in many cases may hold the opposite view.
Our design for letters to the editor is very much the same as with the columnist, except upon request the name of the author may be withheld. This .practice of withholding the writer’s name is discouraged because we feel that if a man has a conviction the least he can do is back it with identity. With this prospectus to guide us we hope to make each copy of your Scholastic succeed-ingly better.—H. Smith Keel.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88. NO. 3
OCTOBER 4, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Pelling Wins Council Presidency
Movie star Pat O'Brien and his wife Eloise, shown with Rev. lohn Cav-naugh, C.S.C., President, during their visit to the campus last Friday.
Pat O'Brien Visits N. D., Attends Illinois Game
Knute Rockne cams back to the Notre Dame campus last Friday afternoon— the movies’ Knute Rockne. Pat O’Brien, who paid a surprise visit to University President Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., one of the technical directors of the film immortalizing the great coach in which O’Brien starred six years ago.
The pleasant Irish character actor, who played halfback for Marquette against Notre Dame in 1921, yet claims N.D. as his second alma mater, spent nearly two hours with Father Cavanaugh. He was accompanied by his wife, Eloise, on his visit to the campus.
When he departed from the administration building at 5 o’clock, the greying
(Continued on Page 32)
Body to Investigate Concession Prices
At a meeting of the Hall Representatives on Monday the Executive Committee of the Student Council was chosen with William Pelling of Aurora, Illinois, as the new president. Pelling is a former Navy Lt. (j.g.) and a junior in the Law School. In the Vice-Presidential election Leonard Bodking of Warsaw, Indiana, was selected. The post of Secretary-Treasurer will be filled by Richard Stark, a junior in Commerce from Mattituck, New York. The meeting was held in the SC office in Badin Hall with all the representatives in attendance.
During their first assembly a proposal was made whereby all campus clubs to be organized must submit to the SC through their hall representatives a copy of their by-laws on or before October 14. This procedure also applies to new clubs. After the Executive Committee has approved the formation of the new organization they in turn submit their findings to the Director of Student Activities for administration approval.
Also approved was a proposal to investigate the high prices of the commodities sold in the various campus concessions. This will take the form of a committee sometime in the near future.
The Executive Council wishes to explain that its function is not that of a student governing body, neither is it a rubber stamp. It is an organization which serves as a liason between the Administration and the student body. It considers all discrepancies that may arise on the campus, and upon the decision of the Executive body channels these protests to the proper authorities. In addition it expedites all dances, pep rallies, etc. of interest to undergraduates.
Jimmie Wilbur, leader of the 14-piece orchestra which will provide the music at the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall tomorrow night.
Irish Victory Dance to Follow Pitt Game
The .newly elected president of the Student Council, Bill Pelling announced last Wednesday night that the first of this year’s Victory Dances would be held on Saturday, the 5th of October after the Pittsburg game. The dance will be sponsored by the Student Council, the representative organization of the student body.
It was also learned that all Victory Dances this year will be held in the Navy Drill Hall. The dance will begin at eight and will last through the evening until eleven-thirty. All those attending the dance will waltz to the melodious strains of Jimmy Wilbur and his fourteen-piece orchestra, who will be making their in-
(Continued on Page 33)
9
ND HAS REPRESENTATIVE BAND, TOO, THIS SEASON
No man on the campus has been quite so elated during the past few weeks as Mr. H. Lee Hope of the University Band. For the first time in four years, Mr? Hope’s goodbyes have changed to welcome hellos as he greets his olfl musicians home from the wars. From 160 applicants, 100 choice musicians have been selected, all but six of whom are former ND bandmen.
Always noted for giving one of the most original half-time displays, the Notre Dame band promises to be bettei than ever this season. Each Saturday’s game will be flavored at the half with “Musical Murals” and the show will follow a particular motif. At the Pitt game this week, the band will make its initial appearance with “The Seasons.” After three weeks of diligent daily practice, the boys should provide excellent musical entertainment for the football fans.
Jim Kress, ex-Marine and drum major extraordinary, once again will put the band through its paces. Jim is an expert with the baton and a favorite among the musicians.
Mr. Hope had prepared a fine show for the Illinois game and was looking forward to showing off the band on the same field with the Illinois aggregation, but the trip was cancelled, much to the chagrin and disappointment of all concerned.
A now comedy feature this fall will be “The Forgotten Irishman.” He is reported to be the original civilian sad sack who represents the hopes, fears, trials and tribulations of the' typical ND student.
The spirit in the band has reached a new high and the prospects are the best in the school’s history. The band, as well as the team, should be especially “representative” this fall. —Roy Lang.
Eleven New Members Join Commerce Forum
Eleven new members were welcomed into the Commerce Forum last week as the organization held its first social. Pat Wilson and John Toole, two former members of the Forum, were among the eleven added to the club roster.
Jack Fitzhenry’s piano playing was the high spot of the entertainment program, which included a talk by the well-known orchestra leader Johnny Lang. Several faculty guests were included in the gathering.
10
Graduate Students Association Meets
Methods of promoting community spirit among Graduate Students and of seeking their common objectives through group action were considered on September 26 at the first meeting this semester of the Graduate Students Association.
The Association, first organization of its kind in the history of the rapidly growing Graduate School, was formed
Don Hollenhorst
last spring and is open to all Graduate Students.. Its aim is to help to acquaint Graduate Students with each other and w i t h other fields o f study besides their own, as well as to serve as a means
of solving practical problems common to Graduate Students. The Association functions through periodic General Assemblies of Graduate Students, such as the one last Thursday, which was attended by seventy-five men.
The General Assemblies are continuously represented by a standing executive Committee. This is made up of a number of Representatives and a Secretary, who serves as its chairman and as chairman of the Assemblies. The Secretary is elected by the whole Assembly, while Representatives are separately elected by the Science students and by the Humanities students.
Present Committee members are: Secretary, Don Hollenhorst; Science Representatives, James Knobloch, Carl Julien, and Paul Marlatt (alternate); Humanities Representatives, John Glanville, Roger Di-Gioja, and Luis Beltranena (alternate) .
At this latest meeting a .report was submitted by the Committee on projects executed by it under the direction of the Assembly. Among those were a conference with the Dean of the Graduate School on student problems, an investigation on job placement facilities, and a program of student assistance with registration. Another report dealt with the eligibility of Graduate Students for junior membership in the American Association of University Professors.
The Association adopted a set of simple and flexible by-laws, agreed on the establishment of a lecture series, and planned a smoker.
DR. GURIAN APPEALS FOR EUROPEAN AID
An urgent appeal for assistance for European scholars and intellectuals of all creeds who are suffering extreme hardships from lack of food and clothing has been issued here by a group of Professors from the University of Notre Dame, headed by Dr. Waldemar Gurian.
Asserting that American scholars and intellectuals are being “swamped by requests for help” from their European colleagues, the Notre Dame professors declare that “undoubtedly, there are many Americans who would, as individuals, be glad to give aid to these suffering scholars.”
Dr. Waldemar Gurian
The Notre Dame professors recommend the use of CARE (the Cooperation for American Remittances to Europe, Inc.) at 50 Broad St., New York, 4, New York, to send parcels abroad to individuals. Such parcels costs $15 and provide a food content of 40,000 calories, or enough food to sustain a person for more than three weeks.
The Notre Dame Professors also will be glad to provide names and addresses of European scholars and intellectuals who are in desperate need of help. All inquiries should be made to Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Notre Dame, Indiana. Other members of Dr. Gurian’s group are: Dr. Frank O’Malley, Professor of English at Notre Dame; Dr. M. A. Fitzsimmons, Professor of History; Dr. James A. Corbett, Professor of History and Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Professor of History.
T.E.B. is not a newly formed government agency, nor is it the abbreviation of some new medicine, as it might well be. Undoubtedly, though, in reading the sports page of the Chicago Tribune you have seen, in Arch Ward’s “In The Wake Of The News,” verse, both witty as well as serious signed T.E.B. Those three initials are the nom de plume of Father Thomas Edmond Burke, C.S.C., professor of English, poet and Associate Editor of the Ave Maria,- Catholic Home Weekly.
Father Burke, not to be confused with his brother Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., first came to Notre Dame from St. Col-umkille’s, Chicago in 1899. One of the fathers there asked him if he wouldn’t like to try out Notre Dame as his college, and it was upon this invitation that he came here at the age of 15. Actually he came with his elder brother, Eugene, to be his companion as he was then entering the seminary and, too, to help him over those inevitable high hurdles that have to be surmounted in realizing any vocation. Young Tom, upon first coming to Notre Dame, had no intention of becoming a religious, but it wasn’t long before he developed a great liking for community life, found himself following in the footsteps of his brother to. the priesthood.
It was not until his junior year in college that he started to display his talents at writing verse when his first poetry appeared in the Scholastic in 1906. He wrote right up until he graduated in 1907. Having become a college alumnus, affable Tom Burke dug into his theology and philosophy with great earnestness, eager to acquire the knowledge necessary in becoming a priest of God.
In 1911, two years after his brother, Thomas Burke completed his studies and that same year was ordained by Bishop Alerding, D.D., of Fort Wayne as a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross. Soon after ordination he was attached to the Department of English and for six years taught classes in rhetoric. In 1917 Father Burke was appointed Prefect of Discipline and held that office on through World War I. “One thing I became surely convinced of while I was Prefect of Discipline,” says Father Burke, “is no matter how hard I tried I couldn’t get ahead of the boys. If a fellow tried something long enough, I finally caught up with him, otherwise he was always a couple of, jumps ahead of me. And believe me the boys today are the same as they were then.”
While teaching classes soon after becoming a priest, Father Burke had as a student Arch Ward who, when Harvey Woodruff died in 1915, took over the “Wake” in the Tribune and it was at his
T.E.B.
By CHARLES CARROLL CARTER
request that T.E.B. later submitted poetry to that column. William Fox, now sports editor for the Indianapolis News, was also one of Father Burke’s students and, claiming that he “had something on him and would reveal it to the world if he didn’t write for his column,” T.E.B. also wrote for him. Incidentally, Father says that was not the real reason why he condescended but rather, “I just like to write things for other people.” Even though his verse covers almost every topic, he usually writes on something at someone’s particular request, although little bits like
She is so modest and sedate In all her daily actions That she ivould actually hate To work improper fractions.
and
I started a mile walk one Sunday But ere I had gone fifty feet
I met a young maid who had eyes of green jade
And whose voice was exceedingly sweet.
Three times I attempted to leave her But she held me entranced by her smile;
And her silvery talk took the place of my walk,
For “A Miss is as good as a mile.”
are completely products of his cheery sense of humor.
In 1920 he was appointed Secretary of the University, a functionary whose duties then included those of Registrar . as well as Treasurer. It was at this time that his brother, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who later wrote the words to our great school song “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” became president of Portland University, directed by the Holy Cross Fathers in Portland, Oregon.
Father Thomas Burke was relieved of his duties as Secretary in 1923 and a year later was made associate editor of the Ave Maria, a post he has held since then. Each week he writes the “World News in Brief” column, the notes and at times contributes to Commonweal, another national Catholic weekly. A good deal of T.E.B.’s poems give the impression that he was once in love with a girl who didn’t love him, but since he sep
arated himself from the outside world at such a young age that was not the case. He wrote them for others who may find themselves in those circumstances. As,
Memories
The day we said good-bye, dear, Was it not hard to part?
I held your tivo white hands in mine, You held my lonesome heart.
■ And you went through the valley To pluck the purple rose, I sought the starry-headed hills And trod among the snows.
The day we said good-bye dear— Ah, memories that smart!
You took your two white hands from mine,
I never took my heart.
In 1939 the Student Activities Council put out a sixty-five page booklet of the poems of T.E.B. including “Sonnets of a Substitute,” a clever series of verse on the dreams of a substitute quarterback; “Kokomo Sue,” a nimble-brained gal from a small town who, on the advice of her father, would not trust anyone as he told her they were all crooks. When she came to the ‘big’ town she finally ended up in a D.T. ward; as well as “Hamlet” and “Romeo and Juliet” set down in humorous verse which he considers his best.
Although a good deal of T.E.B. is funny stuff, Father Burke has written some of his best poetry with a religious theme.
Not when His bleeding Body craved for rest	•
Did Christ, the Crucified, this life depart;
But. oh, His head fell lifeless on His breast
When He beheld His mother’s broken heart.
In almost any line of thought, or upon any subject, T.E.B. can put into verse, in his own inimitable style, the most beautiful of that thought or the funniest side of that subject.
Tears
Uplifted from the heart by grief, How suddenly they bring relief To mournful souls, even as rain Relieves the fever of the plain.
“A poet,” says Wordsworth, “is a man speaking to men: a man, it is true, endowed with more lively sensibility, more enthusiasm and tenderness, who has a greater knowledge of human nature and more comprehensive soul, than are supposed to be common among mankind.” T.E.B. fulfills that definition.
II
MOVIES SPREAD BLOOD AND GORE-NOTRE DAMERS SCREAM FOR MORE!
By JOHN
If any Notre Dame men were sleeping soundly in their sacks last week it wasn't the fault of the local movie houses. For since the beginning of the semester the South Bend theatres have been offering an almost steady diet of ghosts and murders, furnishing their bloodthirsty customers smelling salts and sulfa at the door, and packing them in by the neurotic thousands. Notre Dame students, University men all, flocked by the drooling droves to watch the spooks and were-wolves clash with the Kreml-haired Hollywood heroes ovei the supine forms of various ex-inups.
Typical of these chillers wa> “The Devil-Bat's Daughter," produceci by some studio now bankrupt, and featuring an ex-Miss America, shapely Rosemary La Blanche. Although the role of the ogre-bait usually goes to a friend of the director or some European
President Names New Local Council Members
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University president, announced this week the new membership of the Local Council, an executive group composed of seven prominent priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to advise and assist in the administration of university affairs.
The new Council will consist of Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Rev. William R. Robinson, C.S.C., assistant religious superior; Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S’.C., director of studies; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., business manager and University steward; Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., director of student affairs; Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president; and Rev. John J. Red-dington, C.S.C., purchasing agent and superintendent of construction.
The duties of the Council will be as follows: Father Murphy will assist the president on all matters concerning the University, while Father Robinson will handle ecclesiastical assignments of priests and brothers attached to the University. Father Kenna is to direct all academic affairs, Father Burke, business and financial affairs, Father Kehoe, the extra-curricular activities of the stu
dents, and Father Sweeney, public relations and alumni affairs.
A. OCONNOR
screamer just over on the latest illegal immigrant ship from Russia, Miss La Blanche at least feigns talent. Her two artful attempts (one, she lies, staring into space with glazed, coma-veiled eyes as the monster breathes ever closer; and two, her marrow-freezing scream that sounds like the all-clear) were very well done.
In “The Spider Woman Strikes Back," Gale Sondergaard takes time off from her pink meetings in Hollywood to go around sampling the blood of curvesome blondes, ably aided by Rondo Hatton, known to wrestling fans as the Swedish Angel. After you’ve seen the picture you’ll admit Miss Sondergaard can do the country less harm by going on with left wing activities.
“The She-Wolf of London” offered a spavined selection of horrific females playing vampire in the typical Monogram murder setting: swirling fog, flickering gaslights, stupid English bobbies, and a dumb dame that likes to walk on the moors after lights-out until the ripper sinks his fangs into her jugular. Brrr! And all this time Notre Dame men, future lawyers, scientists, and business men, sit there chewing nails down to the knuckle or tossing
great gobs of stale popcorn down their gaping mouths.
One night last week the local gazette advertised the following creepers on the film page; each one promising to be gorier than the other: "The Strangers," “Behind Green Lights,” “Lost City of the Jungle” (no meat shortage here; al) the ham you want!), “The Whistler Returns,” “Mysterious Intruder,” “Terror by Night,” “The Unknown," “Walls Came Tumbling Down,” “Dark Corner," “Asylum of Horrors” (no cracks about you-know-where, please), and the worst of all “House of Dracula,” in which Dracula, a werewolf, a mad scientist (they always go mad at Warner Bros.), a loony nurse, a follower of Bilbo and the ever-reappearing Frankie Frankenstein’s monster engage in a mass pillowfight at the end of the film, finally being consume.! by the flames. Incidentally, Frankenstein’s ghoul died every Known death from being parboiled in a sulphur-pit to being poisoned on the chow-line by ND gravy. He’ll be back again, just wait and see.
By a scant survey of the general run of filmfare offered in this college town, most ND lads were ready last week to spend their evenings curled up with the latest copy of National Geographic.
$»----------------------------->
Loreto Chapel with its votive-laden Virgin is the oldest shrine on St. Mary's campus. The girls visit it with the same affection Notre Dame students have for the Grotto.
Pat O'Brien on the special train to Champaign. He is talking to Trainer Hugh Burns and Jim McGarraghy, who gave Clashmore Mike II to Notre Dame.
12
j I
After More than a
By JAMES JOHN
i • Beyond the ornate stone gate, which j	faces Highway 31, an avenue of stately
I	maples and sycamores leads to what is
S	often referred to by the average Notre
1	Dame student as the “Never, Never
.	Land.” What goes on there is often a
j	source of mystery to starry eyed fresh-
<	men. But how Saint Mary’s grew is no
i	mystery. Its development represents a
s	robust saga of hard work for over more
i	than a century.
;	Now tonier and better known than
i	most mid-west girls’ colleges, Saint
;	Mary’s future was already impressively
augured by Father Sorin in 1842, when
;	he wrote from the Indiana hinterland to
;	his French superior: “And once the Sis-
ters come—whose presence is so much desired here—they must be prepared, not merely for domestic work, but also for teaching; and perhaps, too, for the establishment of the Academy.” In 1842 his wish was granted.
Imbued with the fervor of their newly founded Congregation at Le Mans in France, four Sisters came to Father Sorin’s aid. Other recruits, from Le Mans and the neighboring territory, soon joined the devout but hardy little group. It wasn’t long after this that the need for a local novitiate became urgent. Inevitably, Notre Dame was suggested as a location. Difficulties in the form of episcopal opposition, due mainly to Bishop Hallandiere’s inability to support a convent in the frontier, forced the Sisters to set up their training school in Bertrand, Mich., one of the various missions tended by the Holy Cross Fathers, some five miles north of Notre Dame.
The Sister’s coming to their salt-box convent in 1844 marked the expansion of their activities to include teaching. The
Century
previous months they had lived an unaffected but useful life in‘the loft of the original log chapel at Notre Dame. But now, with this transition, they began to instruct a few children in the Bertrand area. Professors on horseback from Notre Dame and those Sisters who could speak English, trained teachers for the new school. Postulants for the religious life were being received with a regularity boding well for the infant project. In 1850 the Academy listed the names of 50 boarders for whom a genteel education as good as any in the East was being provided.
In 1853 Miss Eliza Gillespie, a prominent socialite renounced the world to assume the conventual veil. The story of how she joined the Holy Cross Congregation has many elements in it fit for a modern novel. Originally intent on joining a convent of the Sisters of Mercy in Chicago, she stopped off en route to visit
14






her brother, Neal, studying for the priesthood at Notre Dame. Fate and Father Sorin’s high-pressure salesmanship combined to carry out what might be considered one of the slickest spiritual abductions of the time. Miss Gillespie joined the local congregation, went to France for her novitiate, and returned in 1854 to head the school at Bertrand. Until her death in 1887, the unobtrusive, but efficient influence of Mother Angela, as Miss Gillespie was then known, could be detected behind the “invisible hand” shaping Saint Mary’s educational destiny. She compiled textbooks, formed and led a hospital corps in the Civil War, and established numerous schools alternating between the plains and the cities.
In 1855 opportunity practically imposed itself on the small community. Although a success, the school at Bertrand was showing definite signs of bursting at the seams. Bertrand’s chances of becoming a mid-west metropolis dimmed in favor of South Bend and its incoming railroad. Thus, it was with something like glee that Father Sorin bought
a spot of woodland seph River about a
along the Saint Jo-mile west of Notre
Dame. He had long envisioned this particular stretch of real estate as the future Saint Mary’s. He immediately commissioned Mother Angela to manage the new entity and to adapt it to the needs of a modern academy. On the Feast of the Assumption, 1855, she and Sister Euphemia took possession of their new abode.
To an old blown house, pioneer building on the campus, were added frame dwellings from the settlements at Bertrand and Mishawaka. Today, the two story cottage near the greenhouse is all that remains of those gallant yet quaint wooden cabins. Sixty students on its register and a legal charter of the State of Indiana were evidences at the end of 1855 that Saint Mary’s Academy had already hitched well onto a star.
The subsequent years were busy ones-The grounds had to be landscaped. There was a crying need for classroom and dormitory facilities. Emergency had to erupt into action. The first completely new building was erected in 1858. Originally used as an assembly hall, it was later converted into Saint Michael’s Chapel. The former main building, Ber
trand Hall, followed in 1862. Material development continued unabated for a score of years. Lourdes Hall in 1872, Saint Angela’s Hall in 1892, the present novitiate in 1893, and other minor buildings are tributes to the work of that era.
Life at Saint Mary’s Academy during the Civil War deserves special mention. On a plea for nurses from the Governor of Indiana, Mother Angela and a company of assistants, perhaps a little deficient in medical knowledge but endowed with much common sense and sheer devotion to duty, set out for the worst of the battle centers. In every battlefield the Sisters compiled an enviable record. Their overnight method in establishing hospital centers later became a model for others. Moreover, their practical good will helped more ’ than preaching
s
£
£5
to break down Popish Yankees, occupied caring battle area, life lack its exciting
prejudice among antiWhile the Sisters were for combatants in the back at school did not moments. With a num

ber of students from the South, loyalty on the campus was sharply divided. Though exuberant displays of sentiment for either side were offiically frowned
Jack Terrio of Howard Hall leave Le Mans Hall with their dates.
Harvey Kramer and
S


upon, on several occasions differences of opinion among the girls flared forth into down and out hair pulling.
Religious life on Saint Mary’s campus has long been under >the dominating influence of two among the mid-west’s most treasured churches. Loretto Chapel is the oldest and most cherished shrine at Saint Mary’s today. Built in 1859, it commemorates the miraculous translation of the Holy House of Nazareth by angels to Loretto to prevent its desecration by the Turkish hordes. Intended to be a replica of the original, the Chapel was constructed on the exact measurements of the House in Italy. It is munificently indulgenced, having been granted by Pius IX in 1860 the same plenary indulgence accorded to the Santa Casa by Clement VIII.
The heart of the Mother House and
Saint Mary’s College has long been the community church. Called the Chapel of Our Lady of Loretto, it was erected in 1886 following the Romanesque original of Santa Maria Carignana in Genoa. Its
HttiiiitittiiHitiimtiiiiimiiiiiutiitmiinimiiuniiiimimiiMiiiinMi
With the Library in the background, (top left), Rita McCann, Pat Sammon, and senior class president Mary Jean Powers cross "the lake."
Top Right: A comer of the library where St. Mary's students study and do research work.
St. Mary's Horse Show—Mrs. Clarence Manion, wife of the Notre Dame Law School dean, presents an award to Virginia O'Brien, (lower left)
A quiet afternoon in the Great Hall of LeMans Hall, (below)
special distinction lies in its exquisite rainbow of windows. They were imported from Le Mans, France, where they were painted painstakingly by Carmelite Nuns. Here the Sisters, whose rule is based on the ancient discipline of Saint Augustine, satisfy their religious obligations. This chapel has all the significance for Saint Mary’s that those at Notre Dame cherish in their historic Sacred Heart Church.
The physical expansion of Saint Mary’s has continued on into the twentieth century. The students’ infirmary, Saint Joseph’s Hall, was built on the inviting banks of the Saint Joseph River in 1902. Holy Cross Hall, the first college building, was finished in 1904. The artificial lake, adding a touch of gentle dignity to the campus was completed in 1905. Today its mirror-like surface is
16
rippled by a school of black and white ducks. To the casual, uninquiring visitor, these seem but bland items of decoration. But to those in the know it is quite apparent that in view of the meat emergency there is yet a mors utilitarian purpose for their being there. The library, following the general outlines of a French chateau, was built just a few years ago to commemorate the centenary of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. It houses a distinguished collection of books and a Dante collection only second to that of Notre Dame.
Largest and most imposing, Le Mans Hall was erected in 1924 and named for the founding city of the Holy Cross Congregation. A fabulous million dollar Gothic structure it contains the College Chapel, classrooms, recreation rooms, library, and deep underground it radiates into a system of tunnels so that the girls need not be exposed to Indiana’s erratic winds when they go to and from class. Its lush Book-Cadillac interiors are local interpretations of what the school catalog promises the girls in the way of “refined amenities.”
A conservative school, St. Mary’s has managed to keep abreast of the times. Long before the Chautauqua Movement, usually credited as the forerunner of the modern summer school, Saint Mary’s had its vacation classes. In 1914 when the United States was mildly engulfed in an automobile craze, Saint Mary’s startled the educational world in an attempt to lessen the danger present
Four St. Mary's girls enjoy the sunshine on the spacious lawn. The building in the background is Le Mans Hall.
ed by women drivers. It arranged for an auto mechanics course which provided expert driving technique and tinkering with a Studebakei’ chassis. In the late ’30’s half-shocked nuns found it wise to surrender to the universal affectation of women for smoking and put in a smoking lounge which was perhaps the first such startling innovation to be found on any girls’ campus.
The essence of Saint Mary’s education has always been directed toward the development of character. This emphasis does not imply in any way that only cursory attention is given to arts and sciences, but on the contrary it is meant to bolster them. A definite program for inviting well-known personages to lecture at Saint Mary’s is an old custom. A very brief but representative list of those who have graced the lecture platform at Saint Mary’s would include Cardinal Satolli, William Butler Yeats, William Taft, Henry James, G. K. Chesterton, Joyce Kilmer, Archbishop Ireland, and Jacques Maritain.
In the new library at Saint Mary’s there is a room specifically set aside to house precious manuscripts and early editions of Saint Thomas Aquinas. Paradoxically it combines the authentic feeling of a monastic scriptorium with modern indirect lighting. This reconciling of mediaeval atmosphere with contemporary efficiency is an outstanding hallmark of Saint Mary’s where truth, no matter how ancient, always finds itself acceptable in a changing scene.
Father Lloyd to Give Benefit Magic Show
Bev. Paul Lloyd, C.M., will give a benefit performance of magic for his Chinese missions, in the auditorium of Central High School on Friday night, Oct. 11, at 8 p.m. Admission for adults will be one dollar, for children a quarter, the proceeds to go toward the Christian missions in Communist - threatened China.	’
Behind this performance, sponsored by the South Bend Council of the Knights of Columbus, is a story that Notre Dame students would be interest--ed in learning.
Father Lloyd, who has a most engaging personality, came to the priesthood by way of boiler-making and boxing. His hobby of magic has brought him to the top of the ranks of American amateurs, but has to be shelved when he is on duty in China, as the Chinese regard magic as the devil’s sphere.
The Friday night show offers to all in the South Bend area a remarkable opportunity for entertainment, charity, and the meeting of a memorable personality.
Fr. O’Brien's New Book Meets Wide Attention
Bev. Dr. John A. O’Bi-ien, professor of religion at the University, is the author of a new book, Truths Men Live By, published by the Macmillan Company of New York, which is attracting wide attention. The volume, bearing the subtitle, A Philosophy of Religion and Life. is an exposition in popular language of the fundamental philosophic truths underlying the Christian religion.
While most works on philosophy are written in technical language, this book explains the basic truths of the Christian faith in the light of the findings of modern research in philosophy, history, scripture, and science in language that will grip not only the student but the man in the street as well. It constitutes for every person, young or old, a basis for belief and a guide to a noble upright life.
Father O’Brien has spent 30 years in gathering material for this book, and has conferred with the leading authorities on this subject in the universities of England, France, Germany, Italy. Belgium, Spain and the United States.
The volume has been chosen as the book of the month by the Thomas More Book Club and is sent to all its members throughout the country. It ranks among the 10 best selling Catholic works in the nation, according to the log compiled by America, and a new edition is shortly to be issued.	’
17
Adler’s Has
18
Raincoats
Adler’s raincoats . . . rubberized, plastic and water repellent cloth coats in every style, fingertip, regular length and trench coats. Select your coat now from this -J
tremendous selection of famous names in rainwear.
As sure as you live it’s going to rain so be prepared.
ALLIGATOR... RAINFAIR GLENEAGLE... SPECTATOR ... WALES ...
CMNBk... M0NM (
19
Vets Resolution Draws Replies
By FRANK KEENAN
Early in July of this year a resolution condemning the “narrow-minded and short-sighted economic policies” pursued in central Europe by the occupation powers was drafted by Notre Dame’s Veteran’s Club, signed by more than 700 N.D. veterans, and forwarded to President Truman, the State Department and Michigan’s Senator Arthur Vandenberg. Though the petition did not specifically mention the so-called Mor-ganthau Plan, it blasted what veterans felt would be the results of such a policy: the foisting of “economic anarchy on Central Europe, in general, and Germany in particular.”
Within a month after receipt of the resolution, the Morganthau Plan was officially abandoned as a part of United States foreign policy. And this week, Joseph F. Dillon, of Hudson, Mich., and president of the Veteran’s Club, revealed for the first time the contents of replies received from Senator Vandenberg and the State Department.
In his response, Vandenberg, Republican leader in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and member of the U. S. delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, emphasized his “substantial agreement” with the general theme of the resolution. Regarding the Morganthau Plan, the Senator asserted: “I never heard of anything more fantastic or impossible. I am glad to say that it has been completely and irrevocably abandoned. Central Europe must have a chance to ‘get on its own feet.’ It can be permanently demilitarized without being permanently pauperized.”
Referring to the provision in the petition warning against the subversion of the principles of a just and Christian peace, Vandenberg reviewed his insistence upon writing the concept of justice-into the San Francisco Charter, expressing his shock that “it was an amazing thing—but true—that as the Charter came from Dumbarton Oaks the word “justice” never once appeared in it.”
Senator Vandenberg blamed the commitments made by the late President Roosevelt “under the pressure of the exigencies of war,” for the shocking treatment being given to some prisoners of war, whom he termed as “virtually economic slaves.” He also called for a frank review, “in our saner postwar moments,” of these wartime agreements, particularly Yalta.
The Senator stressed American resistance, in the more recent sessions of the Council of Foreign Ministers, to Russian reparations out of “current production” in Italy, and “our complete resistance to Russia’s demand for ten billion dollars of reparations from Germany—and her refusal to treat Germany as an economic unit (pursuant to the requirements of the Potsdam Agreement).”
Vet Prexy Joe Dillon
In conclusion, Vandenberg reiterated his disappointment at being unable to be present at Notre Dame’s last commencement. He wrote: “It is one of the great disappointments of my life that I was unable to make the commencement address at Notre Dame this year and to receive its honorary degree. Everything was arranged but the necessity for my latest journey to the Paris Peace Council shattered the whole arrangement.”
A detailed reaffirmation of official United States’ policy regarding the occupations of Germany and Japan, prisoner of war labor and the establishment of a just peace, constituted the State Department’s reply.
This country’s aims regarding the German economy are three-fold, the communication noted: 1) “the primary necessity of making this former Axis nation powerless for war”; 2) “compensating the victims of German aggression by restitution and reparation”; and 3) “effecting such restoration of German economy as will assure the German people a reasonable standard of living with
hope for a constructive economic future.”
In noting these aims the Department (as did Vandenberg) reviewed the necessity of treating Germany as an economic unit and pointed out the failure of Secretary Byrnes’ proposals for the joint economic administration of the four zones of occupation. Thus far only Britain and the U. S. are cooperating in this unitary economic administration.
With respect to the occupation of Japan, for which the resolution had urged the fullest support for General MacArthur, the State Department was most assuring: “. . . General MacArthur has the fullest confidence of this Government, which will continue to support him in his work of reconstruction in Japan.”
Exploitation of prisoner-of-war labor is prohibited by the provisions of tne Geneva Prisoners of War Convention, the Department stated, to which “it has been the policy of the United States to adhere firmly.” However, inasmuch as the Soviet Union is not a signatory of the Geneva Convention, “and has steadfastly refused to permit representatives of protecting powers or international eleemosynary organizations to visit prisoners of war or internment camps in its territories . . . the Deparrment or State is not in a position to make representations to the Soviet Union in behalf of individual enemy prisoners of war not captured by American armed forces.”
The State Department spokesman, Mr. Walter Walkinshaw, Chief of the Public Views and Inquiries Section, in conclusion called attention to Secretary Byrnes speech made on his. return from the second Paris meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers, from which ha excerpted :
“ ‘We shall press on m session ana out of session to restore conditions of peace to this war-sick world, to bring soldiers back to their homes and to their families, to beat our swords into ploughshares. The war has left wounds, but we must work to heal those wounds.
“ ‘We do not believe in a peace based on a desire for vengeance. We believe in justice, charity and mercy. If we act with charity and mercy, those we fear as enemies may become our friends. We must trust to the healing processes of peace and pray that God in His mercy will give peace to the world.’ ”
20
Scholastic Sports Section J
Irish Seek Second Win Tomorrow
Jim Mello (65) N. D. fullback paves the way tor a touchdown with a 35 yard run. Bill Fisher (72) blocks out Wrenn (26) of Illinois. George Strohmeyer (60), center, runs interference.
Pre-War King Grid Returns to Campus
By ED SNYDER
Clad in his pre-war robes, King Football comes to the campus Saturday afternoon where he will be heralded with intense fanfare by close to 50,000 persons expected to see the Irish meet the Panthers.
To many Notre Dame men, the game will mean their first look at the ’46 Irish grid powerhouse. To the entire student body, it will mark the return of pre-war color and spirit.
But probably the happiest fellows of all will be the commercialists. All week long the money changers in the temple of football have been fast at work jockeying prices to a point where they will be skating close to the outer* fringes of the OPA’s price morality code. Hotel rooms will be set at a premium as the throng of grid fans swarms over South Bend. Resturants, of late shy on meat, will be ready to present the almighty Friday
fish in every form that it comes. And if fish could read menus they would probably be amazed at their monetary value.
The pennant hucksters will have their wares out of mothballs and their throats in shape to blare out the familiar cry: “Wear the colors of the game.” The hotdog, lacking all of its pre-war quality, will take on a heavy coat of mustard to cover up its sad post-war color, yet many of these “pups” will find their way into Mr. Gus Pfan’s stomach. Carbonated beverages and hot coffee will vary in quantity (and no doubt price) with the temperature and weather conditions. (Last week at Champaign, water went for two bits a bottle.)
Despite this financial frenzy, Mr. Notre Dame Student will still be glad to have his Irish at home for the first of four locally-staged contests. Without a doubt, the cheers will seem louder, the band will seem to play better, and the victory dance will probably seem to be the best yet as this first really-down-to-earth, post-war football season swings into its second lap.
A scrappy and resurgent Pitt Panther comes to town tomorrow to tangle with a favored Irish eleven in the first home game of the current season. Having gorged himself on a hapless West Virginia mountaineer last week to the tune of’33-7, the spirited Panther is eager to claw Leahy’s Ramblers from their proud . perch. Going into the contest an underdog, a fighting Pitt team is in just the position to turn the trick.	'
It’s been ten years since Pitt was the scourge of the nation’s gridirons, since names like Goldberg-Patrick-Cassiano-Daddio, et al, made the Smoky City roster read like the roll-call of the pigskin pre-eminent. But from behind the shroud of soot that clouds the Cathedral of Learning comes the word that Pitt is building again.
The mason in charge of the construction job is Wesley Fesler, great all-time end from Ohio State, who has shot the old Panther full of benzedrine and is readying Pitt for the Saturday spotlight once more. Nothing would so send Fes-ler’s stock soaring than an upset win over Notre Dame tomorrow, so his eleven best will line-up at kick-off time.
Big fang in the Panther attack is Lou Cecconi. freshman quarter, who har-rassed Illinois plenty two weeks ago, and tallied twice last week against West Virginia, once on a 98-yard jaunt. Pairing up with Cecconi for Pitt backfield honors is halfback Bill Abraham, but don’t let that biblical name fool you. He’s no patriarch when it comes to pounding off tackle or hustling around the ends. Other probable starters in the enemy backfield are Bruno at right half and Lauro at full. Add to this a heavy list of reserves including Banbury, former Penn-State regular, DePasqua, a nifty passer, Short, a goal-kicking specialist, Daley, Sprock and Rubino.
But if anybody gives the Irish trouble tomorrow it will probably be Leo Skla-dany, a havoc-raising end, who all but guillotined the Illini backs two weeks ago. Skladany is a famous name around Pitt, and sharp football fans may recall (Continued on Page 23)
21
POLITICIAN CZAROBSKI BACKS UP FRIDAY NIGHT CAMPAIGN PROMISES
By BOB LEANDER
President Truman goes fishing; Mr. Molotov takes walks, but Ziggy Czarob-ski is the only politician in our book who plays football, backing up all Friday night pledges with Saturday afternoon action.
On first learning that this department had thoughts of chronicling the great ‘Czar,’ Ziggy disappeared for three days and nights eventually producing a glowing autobiographical sketch which the editors after much deliberation sent with six Mars wrappers to Dr. I. Q., realizing this issue would be only 36 pages and there would be other articles to publish anyway. So with sincere thanks for his background material we nonetheless strike out on our own.
Zygmont Peter Czarobski was jettisoned over Chicago, Illinois, 23 years ago, weighing somewhat less than his present 213 and measuring not quite 6 feet. It is untrue that he arrived smoking a cigar.
His high school football was played at Mount Carmel under the tutelage of Wally Fromhart and Fred Mundee, both ex-Irish gridders. All-City mention in his junior and senior years warranted for Zig a scholarship at Notre Dame, and his play won him monograms in ’42 and
Bob Livingstone crashes thru the Illinois line for N. D.'s second touchdown. Arrow indicates ball. Fisher (72) opened hole thru which Livingstone plunged.
’43. He was a regular tackle on the 1943 National Championship eleven.
The following year the Czarobski talent and charm were at the disposal of Bainbridge (Md.) Navy who after the season closed—assuring him it was no reflection of their esteem—shipped him to the Pacific Theatre where he campaigned on Leyte, S'amar and the Philippines. But sea stories notwithstanding, Ziggy still rates his closest shave the time he got his tie caught in one of his father’s meat grinders, which may or may not be the reason Zig has abandoned the ancient and honorable custom of the cravat.
Returning to the campus last Spring, Czarobski was picked as the “best charging tackle” on the squad. His physical attributes and enhanced by a keen sense of direction—at ’em and on ’em—which combine to make Ziggy an outstanding candidate for All-American honors this Fall. Thus it came as no surprise that as a result of the drive and heart he has displayed in past seasons but more especially for his current courage and resourcefulness on long afternoon scrimmages in Cartier Field, Ziggy shared with Johnny Lujack the captaincy in the Illinois funeral services last Saturday.
And it fell to the co-captains to bolster that intangible thing called morale in the first quartei- of that game when the team was struggling to find itself and prove what it had. How well the task was accomplished is best told by a quick look at the score, a lopsided 26-6 Irish victory.
Ziggy has other interests outside the realm of football, but they are so many and varied a summation is impossible except to say that he is an enthusiastic joiner, boasting membership in such nationally and locally renowned organizations as the American Legion and the DAV.
Chicago Trib Lashes lllini's Perry Moss
By ED SYNDER
When Ilini Coach Ray Eliot read the Chicago Tribune last Friday, he must have felt like a New Dealer around election time, for his star quarterback transferee, Perry Moss, was under the fire of the “World’s Greatest Newspaper’s” vitriolic editorial penmen.
The editorial satire, titled “Genius” and running close, to eight inches in length, poked fun at Moss, former Tulsa -passing ace, who transferred to Illinois this fall upon being discharged from the Army. It pointed out that Moss decided to relieve student over-crowding at Tulsa (where 875 students were registered last year) by moving to Illinois “where there are only 23,000 students.”
It then went into a four paragraph description of how Moss picked up eight semester hours of credit during 26 days on the campus to become eligible for the ’46 grid season. “In those 26 days,” the editorial read, “Moss showed outstanding scholastic aptitude by passing three courses requiring eight weeks of work and one requiring 12 . . . which would have-required a dull scholar 56 days for the first course and 84 days for the second.”
“He didn’t pick any snaps either,” commented the article. It noted that he took advanced football, camping and outdoor leadership, theory of coaching, and baseball, with the comment “They say the boy builds a nice fire and can follow a spoor like nobody’s business.”
In conclusion, the satire noted with sorrow that the eight 14-year-olds and one 13-year-old student who have enrolled at the University of Chicago (minus football) can’t forward pass, “or they might have graduated with honors in outdoor leadership at the age of eight down Champaign way. As it is, all they can do is make with calculus, Sanskrit, and Aristotle.”
22
'46 Football Season Opened With Rally
By STEVEN T. VALETICH
With the echoes of the Victory March resounding throughout ancient Notre Dame fieldhouse the 1946 football season officially opened at the pep rally held a week ago last Thursday at 8:00 PM.
Once again additional pages of gridiron history were about to be written as the Irish went into their 58th competitive season. The pages of her glorious past unfolded to offer this new team added inspiration and incentive. Surely the ghosts of Rockne, Gipp and other Notre Dame gridiron immortals must have smiled as they looked down upon the opening rally of a season which has promise of being one of the greatest in Notre Dame history.
Led by the University band, the student body, 4,000 strong, forming at the entrance of Sacred Heart Church where the Mission had just ended, marched by S'orin and Walsh Halls, turned left past the Architecture building and streamed into the south entrance of the gym to quickly assemble before the balcony.
The spirit characteristic of Notre Dame rallies of the past were evident even as the milling students jammed all corners of the white walled gym back to the basketball court.
Thousands of lusty voices, vociferous in their enthusiasm, opened the SAC sponsored pep rally with the spell-it-out cheer, followed by a “Down The Line” by the band. Then, after a short impatient interim, members of the 1946 varsity made their appearance upon the balcony as they clambered to take seats in the upper rows.
The rally got underway in earnest as assistant coach Edward W. “Moose” Krause, in the absence of head coach Frank Leahy, introduced members of the squad and coaching staff midst rolling ovations and cries of speech! speech!
In compliance, short talks were given by tackle George Connor, center Martin Wendell, guards Tom Potter and Fred Rovai and ends Jack Zilly and James Martin whose central theme bespoke of the readiness of the “representative” team to meet the vaunted Illini. Cocaptains for the Illinois game, quarterback Johnny Lu jack and tackle “Ziggie” Czarobski also spoke. Once again “Ziggie,” in his inimitable jocular style, showered well received humor upon the
Buddy Young breaks away from Terry Brennan (37) and
Marty Wendell (left)
for a short gain in the first quarter of Saturday's game.
appreciative throng. Speaking for the team Lu jack reiterated his belief of their readiness and emphasized the need and importance of continued support by the student body.
A note of finality was prevalent as assistant coaches Ed Krause, Johnny Druze, Joseph McArdle and Marty Brill assured the ensemble that this year’s Fighting Irish were confident of a successful season. However, the potentialities of the Illini, Notre Dame’s toughest opener in history, were not overlooked and caution for underestimation was asked.
Despite last week’s rally being the opener, much enthusiasm was displayed with the promise of more forthcoming with the unfolding of the season. Indications had it that the traditionally high fever shown would be borne to distant parts of the land in weeks to come.
The Reverend John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University closed the rally with a few timely thoughts on Notre Dame Spirit.
He felt secure that the spirit demonstrated was the thing which would carry the Irish to successive victories this year. Striking the keynote of the rally he said the student spirit would be manifested in the team when they met the Illini and other opponents in weeks to come. Exercising foresight Father Murphy remarked: “Let them (other teams) not be impatient. They shall receive their share in due time!”
IRISH SEEK SECOND WIN (Continued from Page 21) the other Skladany, Joe, who played repeatedly great All-American ball on the Panther powerhouses of a decade or more ago. Other ends who will probably see plenty of service are Bill McPeak and Bill Mihm, while Cummins, Gregg and Schnieder round out the roster of flankmen.
A mean gent by the name of Durishan is Pitt’s most formidable tackle, aided by the stolid Plotz, and backed up by such subs as Harris, a 260-pound frosh, Roussos, Hardesty, and an anti-Gaelic bruiser with the unappropriate appellation of Rosepink.
At guards Pitt has Ranii, Coury, Bar-kouskie, Kosh and Massey, and at center Fesler may start either Clougherty, Ward or Haddad.
Pitt doesn’t figure on copping the national championship this year but she may prove to he a Jack-the-giant-killer. Talcing advantage of the Irish Achilles heel, pass defense, and capitalizing on a few breaks, the blue-and-gold Panther may maul a few slightly-swollen ND helmets. If the Feslermen fight like they did in the first half against Illinois, and if they follow up their chances like the blood-spilling tussle with West Virginia, then they may be the surprise of the year. If they don’t, then better the Dome should fall on them, because it may he 50 to 0. The Pittsburghers will have to stay wide awake or they may get caught with their Panthers down.
&plinieM> yuwn the. PteAA B&x,
Big “Moose" Krause threw his long arms around Coach Leahy as the final gun sounded ending the “Illinois Funeral” last Saturday afternoon. The Notre Dame section blared forth with the "Victory March” and a stream of colored jackets and black robes shuffled towards the wide open places where they could really howl. Everybody was happy. Yes, even Kilroy was there cheering us on to a 26 to 6 win over favored Illinois.
Johnny Lujack played an outstanding game, both offensively and defensively. Most of John’s passes were laterals but they were tossed with deadly accuracy. Defensively, there wasn’t a better man on the field. Ziggy Czarobski, George Connor, Jack Zilly, Bill Fisher, Fred Ro-vai, Marty Wendell, George Strohmeyer, and all the other linemen played a bang-up game from the time they entered the game until they tossed their helmets to the ground after a substitution was made.
Emil Sitko’s run was the turning point of the game. It wasn’t until he broke away on his 83-yard-run that Notre Dame began to click. “Red” Sitko is about as good a break-away runner as you will see this year. During the third quarter while Sitko was sitting on the bench having his injured shoulder strapped with tape, he repeated over and over, “Mike, don’t let us down. You can score on these guys.” “Red” was talking to Mike Swistowicz who couldn’t hear him but Mike was running hard and tossing beautiful blocks. We mention this just to show you that the Notre Dame team possesses a winning spirit and nobody seems to care who scores as long as Notre Dame wins.
We would like to take our hats off to Coach Leahy who used all his substitutes, except Kelly, against Illinois. Notre Dame could have easily scored one, maybe two more touchdowns, but Leahy was satisfied. In fact, he didn’t even seem to mind Illinois scoring in the closing minutes of the game. Bob Kelly’s playing jersey wasn’t included in the packing Friday afternoon and it cost him a chance to get into the fray.
NOTES TO YOU
After the game most of the players who played back in ’43 and ’44 raced across the field to shake hands •with Mag-gioli, Huber, and Rykovich, their old teammates. . . . This spectacle of friend-
By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
liness, four Notre Dame players smiled and shook hands with three members of the defeated Illini while the 75,000 people streamed out the exits shaking their heads in astonishing gestures, wondering to themselves how these fellas could maul one another for sixty minutes and end up on friendly terms. “The game was cleanly played by both sides,” said Buddy Young as he walked toward the Illinois shower room. Buddy is the fastest man playing football today. .#. . Mr. and Mrs. Pat O’Brien rode down to the game with the team from Chicago. They sat on about the 45 yard line and cheered continuously except for a few minutes during each quarter when Pat had to autograph football programs. ... Joe O’Toole had some trouble with his sun glasses. Every time Joe jumped into the air he lost them. (We know you anyway, Joe.)
Rockets* Center to Return to N. D.
Herb Coleman, center for the Chicago Rockets, expects to return to school next semester to finish his education a la Johnny McHale. . . . Elmer Angsman of the Chicago Cardinals played a brilliant game against his favorite ex-teammate, Frank Sysmanski of the Detroit Lions last Monday. . . . During the summer vacation, Bill Leonard, Notre Dame’s number one miler, spent his time mowing lawns and attending weddings . . . mostly attending weddings! . . . Tentative plans are being drawn up to broadcast the pep rally before the Army game on a coast to coast hook-up. Here’s hoping the West Point Lads have radios. . . . Look for Cornell to rip through Army’s line tomorrow and don’t be surprised if Davis ends up on the injured list . . . Matt Bolger is a rugged individual who used to enjoy roughing the boys up whenever he got the chance. He’s playing end for Cornell this year. . . . The student train to Illinois was an hour late, arriving at 1:00. . . . The Boston Red S'ox should win the World Series in four straight games whether they play the Dodgers or the Cardinals. . . .As we go to press, the Cards lead in the play-off series 1-0. Brooklyn would give the Sox a more colorful battle than the Cards. ... In the racing news, it is interesting to note the keen rivalry between Eddie Arcaro, who quit the Greentree Stables, and Ted Atkinson, who replaced him. Ted has been beating Eddie in the handicaps which pays the winning jockeys 10% of the purse. . . . Mike Jacobs is grooming an
other meal ticket, Rocky Graziano, who lost to stout-hearted Tony Zale a week ago tonight. In their next match watch Ricky turn the tables and KO Zale. Then Mike can pair them again and have another $400,000 gate. . . . Will Ted Williams leave Boston after this year and go to the New York Yankees? . . . Wonder why one of these major league owners who are without a manager- for next season don’t give the old Bambino a chance to try his hand at managing a major league baseball team. The Babe would be a drawing card and might even surprise the baseball world. He built the Yankee Stadium with home runs . . . and the Yankees are without a manager for next year! . . . Just a guess . . . Notre Dame 49, Pitt 0.
PRIEST TELLS SPIRITUAL
SIDE OF TEAM'S VICTORY
The football game last Saturday was undoubtedly brilliant as everyone knows. However, there is one phase of the story with which few of us are acquainted. That is the spiritual side, related this week by Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame team chaplain.
Before departing on Friday afternoon a brief but solemn service was held in Dillon Hall chapel. The entire squad was blessed by a Relic of the True Cross, and each man received a miraculous medal.
That night was spent in Chicago, and early on Saturday morning the entire team, including coaches, presented a most impressive sight as they attended Mass and received Holy Communion in unison. The Mass was said at Old Saint Mary’s, and since it was Saturday, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered up to the Blessed Mother in petition for a Notre Dame victory, freedom from injuries, and in behalf of the families of the players. Father Hesburgh gave the boys a word of encouragement as only a chaplain can.
In the locker rooms at Champaign, Father observed the lads taping their miraculous medals on ‘T” shirts and shoulder pads. Before the game began the familial- side line huddle included a Hail Mary, and the boys blessed themselves with holy water. Many a lad could be seen blessing himself before the kickoff or while running on to the field as substitution.
Human sport has never had a situation where a team could have such high ideals. They are, indeed, true upholders of Our Lady and all the things she stands for, both on and off the gridiron.
—Phil Shea
24
We dont know where the porters came from, but this was supposed to be a shot of N. D. students aboard the train to Champaign.
Highlights and Low Lights of the Illinois Trip
By MEL GODDARD
The day got off to a bad start when we were confronted with soft-boiled, hard-boiled and raw eggs (take .your choice) for breakfast. Things weren’t looking much better about 8:30 as the train was crawling out of South Bend. About an hour later everyone thought we had hit the jack-pot when a couple of members of the staff of the New. York-Central ham sandwich department, came, into the car and announced, “Ice cold beer, get your cold beer here.” Before a stampede could begin, they changed their spiel to “Ice cold root-beer” and we travelers realized once again that we were on a student-trip.
The train was more than an hour late, but everyone was singing as we marched up the main street of town (without the band) on our way to the scene of the game. The good citizens of the town gathered on the sidewalks to watch us go by, and they all seemed to think we were wasting our time as the outcome of the game was not likely to make us happy. At times one or two of the bystanders would wave or applaud and the cheering would break out anew.
Along the 12 mile trek to the stadium, we lost quite a few of the marchers who doubtless stopped in at one of the local
restaurants to try out the quality of their sandwiches. Not too many were lost in this manner to prevent us from keeping possession of the street until we reached the chapel on the Illinois campus. From the chapel we went directly to the gigantic Memorial Stadium.
Part of the Illinois student cheering section was made up of girls wearing orange sweaters and seated so that they . formed a large I. We quit watching them and tried to find a program, but found that they had been sold out. The game soon got under way, and after the second touchdown, we didn’t care whether we had a program or not. We could see the scoreboard with the big 13 after Notre Dame so we didn’t care who was carrying the ball.
Between halves the 175-piece Illini band put on a good show, playing the “Victory March” and accompanying a voice teacher in “Ave Maria.” The largest crowd ever to witness a football game at Champaign stood reverently until the song was finished. The pregame'parade of Illini cheer leaders carrying a corpse of “Notre Dame” was not repeated during the half-time period. (The corpse had evidently come to life.)
The last half was merely anti-climax (Continued on Page 28)
NOTRE DAME SONGS
NOTRE DAME, OUR MOTHER
Xotre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame.
And our hearts forever. Praise thee. Xotre Dame. And our hearts forever. Love thee. Xotre Dame.
❖
VICTORY MARCH
Rally sons of Xotre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah. rah. for Xotre Dame (U rah. rah) We will fight in ev-ry game.
Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we'll cheer her ever Loyal to Xotre Dame.
Chorus:
Cheer, cheer for old Xotre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small 1 Old Xotre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Xotre Dame men! Answer the cry. Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Xotre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Chorus:
And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Xotre Dame men are marching into the-game. Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes .smashing through.
They'll sweep the foemens ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
♦
HIKE SONG
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it’s the hike, hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high.
Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious ‘ name.
Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
25
Chaos Ceases, Frosh Decides He Likes ND
The following is a Freshman English composition turned in by Jim Wuellned. Here’s what one of the frosh thinks of ND.
Ivy covered halls, golden domes and glittering spires. Books and football. I could see it all in my mind’s eye. I was going to college—at Notre Dame! I left home in high spirits, with a full stomach, a handshake, a kiss and those last hurried words of parental advice. Experience tells me I’ll soon forget the last, and my digestive system functioned , normally, so after a night spent in a day coach, I arrived on campus—hungry and with slightly dampened spirits. Nor did my heavy luggage add to my comfort. But as I surveyed the sprawling green campus before me, I realized that, after long years of sack-cloth and ashes in army service, here was my dream. Here was college.
I set about the business of registration. Unable to decipher several contradictory bulletin boards, and with only acrimonious answers proffered by the campus police, I was most happy to have the assistance of a home-town lad, who is an old student here at the University.
Eventually then, after hours of standing in seemingly never-dwindling lines, my registration was complete. That evening, recalling the hectic events of the first day over a coke and a cigarette, I came to two conclusions: one, I was tired, confused, and exasperated; two, I didn’t think I’d like it here.
But over the course of the last few days, I’ve decided to revise my first observations. Out of the chaos has come order. I think I will like it here! Aside from that tangled atmosphere of the first day, one favorable impression after the other has added itself to the list. I have begun to appreciate college and what it can do for me. Truly, I’m anxious to settle down to a little concentrated study to see if I can’t revive this stagnant brain of mine, grown lazy through disuse.
I once heard a fraternity song which went: “Play the college game for all it’s worth, and to heck with the reasons why.” That sounds like fair advice. I think I’ll try it.
La Raza Schedules Four Soccer Games
President Rolando Duarte announced at the La Raza Club meeting Sunday morning that the club will compete in at least four futbol (soccer) games this sea
son. The first will be intra-club with the Central Americans opposing the South Americans. The others will be with Culver Military Academy, Culver, Indiana; the brothers of Dujarie Hall, Notre Dame; and a team of physical education majors.
At the same meeting three new members were introduced: Brother Luis Galvez of Ecuador, Jaime Romano of Peru, and Antonio Ortiz of Brooklyn. Along the opposite line the club as a whole bade farewell to a departing member, Ernesto Anguizola of Panama, who is leaving Notre Dame to enter McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Other business of the meeting included acceptance of an offer from the InterAmerican Affairs Club to contribute to their proposed periodical, and the naming of the various committees for club activities.	—Tom Murray.
Catholic Book Week Set
ST. LOUIS— (NC)— The 1946 observance of Catholic Book Week throughout the country has been scheduled from November 3 to 9, it has been announced here by Brother J. Sylvester, F.S.C., of Christian Brothers College, national chairman of the observance for the Catholic Library Association.
The first thing
your college and social acquaintances see is the way you are dressed ....	.
Is your suit clean? Are your pants pressed? Are you neat?
In order to make an appearance that will be remembered have your clothes come from experienced and reliable tailors and clothiers.
For your approval and selection we offer more than 500 patterns from which to choose shetlands, tweeds, flannels, coverts, worsted and unfinished worsteds tailored to your measure . . . styled and fitted by experienced people.
Suits, top coats, sport coats, trousers — $50 upwards.
Also the home of Adler Rochester ready-to-wear suits and coats — $50 to $75.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115% - 117% North Main Street '	North of Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND
S OLDEST T AILORS
26
DON'T DYNAMITE YOUR MAILMAN; MAYBE HE'S LETTER-HUNGRY TOO
There is, of course, the obscure letter which al]'of us have received addressed to “Harry Goop” whom no one in the hall seems to know or care about and
By FRANK MACHNIKOWSKI
while you run crazily up and down the corridor looking for Goop, the mail car-
(The first in a series to be concluded at the bottom of the page.)
Authorities note with growing alarm the widespread confusion at Notre Dame over the mail issue, or issue of mail. Particularly have the outbreaks at Cavanaugh, Lyons, and St. Edward’s halls drawn official notice to the effect that a crisis exists. Unless drastic action is taken immediately there will be a renewal of the celebrated mail riots of last semester. Readers will remember how the demonstrations at Notre Dame were followed by sympathy strikes at Schrudgely, Boswell, and Michigan City State Penitentiary. A renewal of the violence of that period may result in international disturbances which will endanger the accords reached at the Paris Conference.
Just what is the situation and how has it come about? A penetrating analysis has recently been published by that inimitable expert on national affairs, Phil Luppi, and for a comprehensive treatment his latest work, “Bananas, Then and Now/’ is recommended. According to Mr. Luppi, who was an eyewitness, the opening of the mail incident of last semester occurred when Harpo O'Connor, the then ambassador from Lower Slobbovia and Cavanaugh mail carrier, was set upon by a group of conspirators who intended to assassinate him, not realizing that he represented Lower Slobbovia. Anti-mail carrier sentiment was very strong then as a result of powerful agitation of freshmen whose mail quota had fallen deplorably low. The sudden demonstration against “Mr. O’Connor” (an alias) could not have come at a more unfortunate time. Even as Harpo’s mail fluttered to the ground in front of Sorin’s statue the elements working toward catastrophe advanced relentlessly. For a popularized picture of the complicated intrigues behind the scenes Mr. Luppi and associates are beginning a series in Life.
When Harpo’s attackers were questioned they said Harpo was taking the mail off campus, since in passing Sorin’s statue he was heading out toward Cartier Field. Their nerves were unstrung due to prolonged mail-nutrition and something snapped in all their- minds at once. Needless to say, Lower Slobbovia, not being in the British sphere of influence immediately sent an indignant
note of protest which has had the United Nations on edge ever since.
This article is intended to clarify some of the misconceptions about the mail carrier which depicts him variously with representations r a n g i n g from Count Dracula to Bugs Bunny. The miraculously fortunate students who achieve a regular record of ten letters daily think he is Santa Claus while the poor sufferers who manage a notice from the library once in a while give him the kind of look you wouldn’t give your worst enemy. The first class of gay nonchalants ought to know that the mail carrier does not ride a sled, even in winter, and most obvious of all, he does not wear red tights, cross his eyes, and holler “Whoa Dancer! Whoa Dunder and Blitzen.” A roly-poly mailman is ridiculous as a mash potato sundae and a roast beef malt. Equally funny is the sinister mail carrier who strides across the campus with a mountain of mail, only to sneak into his room, slam the door, and emerge with a couple of letters for appearance sake.
In the first place, the mail earner does not, as a rule, keep a pile of letters which he has not read yet in the drawer of his desk while students starve for mail. There are bad mail men, it is true, but the majority of them are fine upstanding characters who wouldn’t dream of holding out for weeks and months as has been rumored. At the very most he might keep them for three or four days, but not more.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	“South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT 100-102 South Main Street .	Chair No. .5
HEADQUARTERS FOR BOOKS . . .
Fountain Pens — Dictionaries — Atlas — Stationery — Supplies ■ Religious Articles — Missals — Rosaries — Medals
THE BOOK SHOP	-	130 N. MICHIGAN ST.
rier placidly keeps strolling along throwing letters here and there and ignoring your mad gibberish as though you weren’t anywhere around. Similarly, the letter from the best girl oftentimes becomes cool and indifferent without any apparent reason. There can be little doubt that the mail earner is mysteriously implicated in both of these common occurrences, although the actual mechanics of what happens elude the investigation of the cleverest outsider.
Then there is the way people ask the mail man if there is any mail for them as he approaches the hall. He says “No," and then weirdly the mail in question appears under the inquirer’s door after the nine o’clock class. An explanation of this phenomena involves occult forces beyond the scope of this discussion. Somehow the widespread opinion that the mail man is a black magician escaped from the Salem massacres seems to be justified. How could he escape the clutches of relentless mail seekers without casting a few spells now and then?
When you stop to think cf it, perhaps anti-mail-ism is sort of justified. Mailmen are a minority it is true, but isn’t it always the minority that causes all the trouble? The mail carriers at Cavanaugh. Lyons, and Si. Edward’s (Dracula, Frankenstein, and Wolf-Man, respectively) had better beware of irate vigilante committees meeting tonight in the heavy apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial.
27
Fred Rovai Elected to Fill KC Vacancy
Election of a new inside guard and reports of committee chairmen on council activities for the coming year highlighted the meeting Tuesday night of the Notre Dame council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus. The new officer is Fred Rovai, of gridiron fame, who fills the vacancy created by the transfer of John Dee to Loyola.
Membership Chairman Larry Turner announced the receipt of 25 applications for membership in the Knights for the forthcoming initiation, tentatively set for October 15. He added that he expected approximately ten additional candidates by that time. Grand Knight James D. Sullivan read the names of the candidates, who were approved by the investigating committee.
The annual Knights of Columbus Vau-
For Sale — TUXEDO
HICKEY FREEMAN
Size 39 Short
Call 2-3998 — Evenings or Sundays
I	Two fountain pens — Parker
LOST • and Eversharp. Lost during month of June, 1946. Liberal reward for recovery.
REV. E. B. WILLIAMS
Phone 3-2570, or return to Scholastic
118 S. Michigan St.
Flowers for Dances, Proms and all occasions
WIRED ANYWHERE OR DELIVERED
SOUTH BE ND FLORAL COMPANY 114 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-8227
deville will get under way in November, with tryouts the 13th and 14th, and finals the 20th and 21st, according to Recording Secretary Jack Galloway, who is handling arrangements for the show. Anyone interested in entering the competition for the $60 in prize money should contact Jack some time before tryouts begin.
HIGHLIGHTS
(Continued from Page 25) with the Notre Dame roorers singing about six different “Victory Marches-at the same time after each of the Irish touchdowns. The Illini supporters made so much noise when they scored their only touchdown that we thought for a moment they had won the game. Except for that outburst they were very quiet and dignified throughout the afternoon. After the final play of the game, all that remained was the long walk back to the station, futile searches for food in the overcrowded cafes, a bottle of beer to celebrate the victory, and the
long tiresome ride back to South Bend. We still haven’t figured out whether we got back in the hall at 12:30 or 1:30, and we didn’t care much, for we knew we really did have a “representative team” which was off to a great start. We will find out more about this tomorrow and we don’t have to take a train ride to see the game.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
Dear Sir:
Can’t something be done about the employees on the campus who have the old attitude of treating the students like dogs—can’t something be done about it? The men and women who work in the offices, library, bookstore, laundry, and the dining hall office and eating establishments, are collectively the most impolite and rude people ever assembled in one group. On any other job they would be fired. Imagine walking into any business establishment around the
country and being either ignored, insulted, or getting half-hearted service, and in many cases getting absolutely no satisfaction. Of course, there are some exceptions to this complaint.
In the past, campaigns have been run on the campus for a little friendliness and politeness among the students, but what we need is such a campaign among the University employees. Any men oi-women among them who think of themselves as ladies or gentlemen should have no trouble in checking this difficulty.	—Name withheld.
28
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
lows, “FIVE PSI UPSILON SORORITY QUEENS ARRIVING FOR PITT GAME STOP PLEASE GET TICKETS AND HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS.” Well, there it is boys. The gals will view our mighty juggernaut from the forty yard line and then after the game they will rest their tired heads at the Oliver -
ONE MAN'S OPINION:
There has been a lot of comment on both sides of the fence concerning my column last week. For the present I want to make one point clear and this is it: It is only with a great devotion to Our Lady’s University that any of us hazard to make any suggestions. As far as the Army game is concerned the main problem is that the PDs office will have a hard job finding out who will want to go and return on Saturday and who will want to stay on a weekend pass and return Sunday. There is only one solution and that is to have the boys put their dough on the line and then place their John Hancock on whichever ticket they want. The NY Met Club has permission to start a “Home Pool” in order to see how many fellows can be accomodated by members of the club. Since the Met Club has only ONE week for this it would be advisable for them to have a meeting immediately and find out how many men will be able to have a guest or two.
A CUB REPORTER'S NOTES:
The Economic Round Table held its first meeting of this semester last night. Jim Kelly of 246 Alumni, is the man to see if you are interested in joining this organization. . . . The Washington, D. C., Club is once again active on the Campus. In prewar days this Club was one of the most active. It takes in all men from Maryland and Virginia. If you are interested, attend their first meeting which is scheduled for October 8 at 7:30 sharp in Room 1 of the Law Building. Myles (Mustache) McQuail is the man to contact regarding the Washington Club. He calls 172 Dillon his home, that is when he is there. . . . The Columbus, Ohio, Club which takes in everyone from Central Ohio got together on September 30 and arranged for a dinner party for about October 9th. Final plans on this affair will be completed this week. . . . Watch the bulletin boards for any notices regarding this steakventure. . . . The next meeting of the Central Ohio Club will be October 7, 7:30 in Room 1 of the Law Building. . . . The Bookmen Club is active once again. This group of men discuss all the latest good books, or, should we say, literature. They are a fine group and if you’d like to join, write “Bookmen,” 317 Cavanaugh Hall.
Local . . . Christy Walsh has been elected to lead the boys from California through its paces this semester. . . . Elected to help him were Bill Vangen, Joe Concan-non and John Glabb. Glabb is the Treasurer and he was just about chosen for one purpose: to collect the dues and keep the money in his protection. He is about six two and weighs close to 200 pounds. He plays a little football. Hmmm pretty good treasurer. . . . The boys from the West Coast have a fine idea on business meetings. They will hold theirs down town. A party will follow each business meeting. Not bad at all. . . . The Central Illinois Club has the jump on everyone. This Club will soon have its own magazine which will include news stories, features* and home town gossip. The publication will be called the “Illini,” and will come out monthly. The Club itself will soon decide whether or not they are to be known as the Illini. If they do you can look for an Indian Head as their symbol. . . . With this thought in mind, symbols I mean, many clubs are adopting insignias and having pins made. These pins resemble fraternity pins and are fine presents for Christmas time. ... If any club wants an advance notice of its meeting published just drop a line to me c/o the Scholastic, Main Building, Local. We’ll have it in this column as soon as possible.
STORY OF THE WEEK:
I was sitting in my room knocking out the weekly news when a slip of paper slipped under my door. It had a telegram attached to it. The paper read as follows: “Dear Jerry, Here is something for your department. See what you can do to help us out.” The telegram was as fol
The UPTOWN Restaurant
POPULAR NEW EATING PLACE
Cordially invites Notre Dame Students to try our FAMOUS DINNERS
e
120 SOUTH MAIN STREET (Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A. M. to 7:30 P. M., Seven Days a Week
Hotel. Oh yes, Bob Kane can stop worrying now!
❖
FLASH:
Joe O’Reilly recently resigned as Vice-President of the Vets Club. No printable reason was given but we do understand that his resignation has been reconsidered and that he might retain his office. Joe is a go-getter and has made a fine Vets Club official. We sincerely hope he stays in office and continues his fine job.
Lawyers to Hear Unionist
The Law Club is sponsoring a Labor symposium in the auditorium of the Law Building at 2:15 on Oct. 11. The speakers for this occasion will he the legal representative of the CIO Steel Workers Union, Mr. Nordhoff Hoffman, one of the union’s top field representatives. The Law Club advises that all students are invited to attend.
IDEAL GIFTS
Attractive Elgin American Cigarette Cases and Compacts
126 N. Michigan Street
29
32 Ve+s Study for Priesthood
Thirty-two veterans, most of whom participated in some of the fiercest battles of World War II, have begun initial studies for the Catholic priesthood under a plan inaugurated this month at the University of Notre Dame.
Under the new plan, students who plan to become priests are offered accelerated courses in Latin and Philosophy during their first year of college while living in campus residence halls as regular students at Notre Dame.
The Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., director of vocations at Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame, stressed that the new program is a direct departure from customary preparation of men for the priesthood and that the plan grew out of the war. It is intended, he declared, to aid the mature veteran who desires to proceed with his studies as rapidly as possible.
The majority of these 32 men study-
I
FLUORESCENT
DESK
LAMPS $0’5
Complete with tube
SLIDE RULES
RING BOOKS •
ZIPPER BRIEFCASES
•
PENS AND PENCILS
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN
Across from the Court House
ing on the campus as ordinary students plan to become priests in the Congregation of Holy Cross. A few, however, intend to become diocesan priests and others plan to join various religious communities such as the Paulists and the Franciscans.
After a year of study at Notre Dame these candidates destined for the Congregation of Holy Cross will enter the novitiate for one year and then will return to Moreau Seminary, to complete their Notre Dame education. The others eventually will enter seminaries of their choice.
One of the 32 veterans studying for the priesthood at Notre Dame is a candidate for the Notre Dame football team. All branches of service are represented among the veterans.
Veterans now studying at Notre Dame under the new plan are: John Lambert of Summit, HL; Frank Prokes, Jackson, Miss.; Edward Buenger, River Forest, Ill.; William Bullock, Maple Lake, Minn.; James Blaes, Indianapolis, Ind.; Thomas Devine, Shorewood, Wis.; Milton Folds and James Hanlon, both of Chicago, Ill.; Frank Gwynn, LaPlata, Md.; Raymond Henwood, San Francisco, Calif.; Philip Higgins, Coatesville, Pa.
William Klee, Columbus, 0.; Daniel Lynch, Geneva, N. Y.; Clair Lambour, Johnstown, Pa.; Russel Lesperance, Pound, Wis.; Bernard Lonczak, Buffalo, N. Y.; Larry Michaud, Cortland, N. Y.; Robert McLaughlin, Rockville Centre, N. Y.; Casimir Matusik, Jamaica, N. Y.; John Murray, Sharpsville, Pa.; Raymond Neary, Brooklyn, N. Y.; James O’Connor, Freeport, HL; William Orr, Devils’ Lake, N. Dak.; Kenneth Peters, Quincy, HL; Harold Quinn, Rochester, N. Y.; Gregory Shinert, Randolph Field, Tex.; Darwin Venneri, Charleroi, Pa.; Joseph Zur Schmiede, New Albany, Ind.; Joseph Stroot, St. Louis, Mo.; Jack Slattery, Rochester, N. Y.; Paul Schaefer, Dayton, 0.; and John Gruenenfelder, St. Paul, Minn.	'
ND Radio Started With Green's Static
Who was Dr. Green? Ask 10 men this question and you’ll probably get 10 different answers—anything from inventor of the yo-yo to author of “When Irish Eyes are Smiling.”
The man in question was the granddaddy of Notre Dame’s radio station, WND. In May, 1899 an ambitious scientist, Dr. Jerome Green, climbed to the roof of the Science building loaded down with tubes, wires, condensers and enough wireless know-how to make the
trip something more than an afternoon exercise.
He assembled his gear, threw the switch. Not long afterward a hissing squeak broke through the ether. On the receiving end over at St. Mary’s across the lake, the sound was at best a loud burst of static. Nevertheless, this event marked the first successful attempt to transmit wireless waves in the United States.	.
Today, 45 years later, there is still plenty of static bellowing from the campus of Notre Dame. Take a look inside WND’s studio on a Tuesday afternoon and you’ll probably find a group of radio clubbers discussing programming, transmitting, mixing, last night’s date, Saturday’s football game. As informal as they may be, these Tuesday get-togethers are the birthplace of Friday night’s drama or Saturday’s sports review.
Already plans are under way for two weekly programs and many more are certain to follow. About 60 students, most of whom have had little or no radio experience, will take part at one time or another in this year’s broadcasts. To be sure some of the productions will be a little ragged, but there won’t be any lack of enthusiasm.
There will be listener gripes, too, plenty of them. But the boys at WND know that there’s more to broadcasting than the 15 minutes spent airing the finished product. Each program has to be written, re-written and rehearsed before it’s worthy of air time. And don’t forget, commerce students, phy-ed majors and engineers don’t become Fred Allens and Bill Sterns over night, either.
—Bob Vierbule
Library Purchases Graduate Materials
Mr. Paul Byrne, head of the library department at the University since 1925, has announced that large purchases of graduate material were made in New York and are now available for students of the Graduate School. In this group are English, American History, and European History books.
Other schools of the University are not to be neglected though, since many regular texts have been placed on reference for students having difficulty in obtaining them.
The library, in keeping with Notre Dame’s post-war growth, has also expanded until there are now approximately 225,000 volumes in the department with 44 employees, 26 of them Notre Dame students, in charge of the collection.	—Vern Kelley.
30
saw a Central victory over Adams at School Field. If that clown has any Armymoney to spread, I feel safe to say he’ll find plenty of takers on the campus.
—T. G. Fry, Morrissey.
Prints of the Past 1901
Jan. 19: With the new year came plans for a new gym which would have a magnificent dirt floor to make it the pride of the middle west; the list of donors was of course given top billing in the Scholastic. . . . Feb. 9: The band master, considering the official opening of the new gym as the high point in the year, ordered the band to don full uniform for the occasion. Two members who showed up early were taken for Western Union boys. . . . Mar. 9: The excitement over the check of one dollar sent all the way from Brazil to the chairman of the Gymnasium Building Fund subsided this week when it was learned that it had come from Brazil, Indiana, and not Brazil, South America. . . . Apr. 27: The baseball team defeated Upper Iowa 23 to 6, only committing 7 errors to their opponent’s 13. . . . May 11: The baseball team went on to become State Champions by whipping Purdue 25 to 14, both teams holding it down to 12 errors apiece. . . . June 1: The South Bend Greens finally stopped the Irish 4 to 2. . . . Oct. 5: The football team opened the season by a hair-raising 0 to 0 tie with the South Bend Athletic Club. . . . Oct. 19: Northwestern turned in one of its infrequent victories over the Irish by a topheavy 2 to 0 score. . . . Nov. 30: Afterdefeating Beloit 5 to 0 'the preceding week, the Notre Dame team finally came into its own by cutting down a strong Physicians and Surgeons team 35 to 0.
Prints of the Present
Not a Dry Eye
Then there’s the story about the big town gambler who took Illinois and 19 points before the game and bicarbonate of soda and 19 aspirins after the game.
—Attentive Abie, Lyons.
That's One on You
When I read in Life Magazine that freshmen and sophomores at Princeton University must attend church twice monthly, I decided that this was carrying regulations too far. So, I came to Notre Dame. —Jim Sennott, Alumni.
In the N. D. Dictionary Sophomore—Too smart to learn Too busy to bother Too dumb to care
—Charlie Chuckles, Lyons.
Turn 'Em In, Boys
Everything went well on the Student Special to the Illinois game last week, but it is said that a thorough investigation Sunday morning showed that four pair of handcuffs were still missing.
—Joe, the Vet., Alumni.
A Fitting Reply
It seems incredible to a real Notre Dame man that a character- such as Don Lee (address not given), who wishes to “concede that game to Blanchard, Davis, and company” be allowed to walk in the presence of men who cheer the Fighting Irish. And by what authority does this individual warrant classification as an expert on football? No doubt he gazed into his crystal ball and fore-
Our “Battling Beanbags"
Tho food here on the campus might Be quite a situation,
About a nourished team with fight I’ll make this revelation’.
They hit the Indians’ line that day Till every foe was achin’;
They did it in a fitting way
And all on BEANS AND BACON!
—Ernie EatMore.
Strategy of the “Moose"
“The time has come,” the line-coach said,
To think of many plays, ’ Of the line-buckst and reversals— The game in every phase
Think of Army, Army, Army— We’ll win that game this fall.
Remember each assignment, and— FORGET ABOUT THE BALL.
—Don Lee.
Mail or deliver all contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery .
OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
Reverie of an Old Timer
Football is not the game it zised to be
In days when most schools used the flying wedge,
Then men went in for blood and butchery
And tore zip things around them like a dredge;
The sound of cracking bones brozight sheer delight,
And twisted ligament was szveet as song, The very prospect of a drag-ozit fight Cheered every member of the team along.
Today the players try to find a hole Instead of punching holes in every foe They dodge and pivot, running for the goal
Instead of maiming players as they go— Yes, football is a sissy’s game today, It ain’t the game the old boys zised to play.
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties:
Sweaters cleaned by our experts keep that “new" look.
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
31
ADMISSION TO PITT GAME
Students are advised that no one will be admitted to the stadium on athletic books unless their names appear on the front cover, and their signatures on the inside back cover.
Tim Bradley Elected Married Vets Chairman
One of the most active groups on the campus held their first meeting of the semester in the Engineering Auditorium last Tuesday, Sept. 23. The largest room on the campus was thronged with the returning Mn: and Mrs., over 100 each.
Eev. John Lane, C.S'.C., Director of Veterans Affairs; Eev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, and Eev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., the club’s chaplain addressed the group.
Elections were held for the coming year with Tim Bradley chosen Chairman; Jack Whitely, Vice-Chairman; Joe Lane, Treasurer; and Helen D. O’Connor, Secretary.
General plans for the activity for the coming semester were discussed, along ■with matters concerned with the veterans housing project.
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
TRY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED. PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
Last week's rally started at the doors of Sacred Heart Church, where students coming out were met by the band.
PAT O'BRIEN
(Continued from Page 9)
cinemactor found nearly 100 students and office workers milling around to get a first-hand glimpse of a movie star. Upon descending the front steps of the building he was accosted by a half-dozen photographers, some amateurs, others representing campus publications. With Father Cavanaugh, and his wife, O’Brien graciously posed for the lensmen and laughingly pointed to one fellow taking movies, saying, “I see we’ve even made the movies.”
As he entered the car, which was tak-
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
■ 212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
ing him and his wife to visit Mrs. Bonnie Skiles Eockne, widow of the famous coach, he waved to the milling students and in the O’Brien brogue sang out, “Hi fellows!” He was still waving as the car pulled away.
Father Cavanaugh staged an impromptu press conference on the administration building steps following O’Brien’s departure. The president said that his visit was a surprise and added that the movie star was going to visit Mrs. Eockne, whom he befriended during the filming of “Knute Eockne—All-American.” From South Bend, the O’Briens were leaving for Chicago where Pat was slated to appear* on a radio program Friday night. On Saturday, they would be at Champaign to see the Irish-Illini grid clash.
At this last bit of information, a freshman standing nearby, who obviously wasn’t able to be at Champaign Saturday, was heard to remark: “Now I know why he came out here. He probably wanted a ticket for tomorrow’s game.”
But to many Notre Dame men who saw Pat O’Brien characterize Knute Rockne so well and who know that he has already enrolled his young son here, the star’s visit just went on to prove that he has a soft spot in his big Irish heart for the golden dome and what it stands for.—Ed Snyder
32
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
We were more pained than amused the other day to read an article in Robert van Gelder’s Writers and Writing about E. B. White, the essayist. If the name is remotely familiar to you, try hard and you may remember that some of his works (essays) are in Reading for Writing. Mr. White is the gentleman responsible for some time for the Neto Yorker’s Notes and Comments page. Said painful comment is in regard to his Reading for Writing pieces. Mr. White says that he has been asked on numerous occasions to allow his work to be included in textbooks. He assented but had never seen the completed text. Recently he got hold of one. We would tell exactly what he had to say, but one of Charles Scribner’s Sons, or perhaps even a hireling, wrote in the beginning of Writers and Writing that all rights were reserved, so ... To get back to Mr. White’s unquoted remarks, he said that at the end of his essay were a group of questions. The questions were very interesting: “Why did Mr. White use repetition here?” etc. Mr. White felt that they were worthwhile questions, but even on re-reading the piece he didn’t have the vaguest idea why he had used repetition. We hope the freshmen aren’t too disillusioned, but at last the English Department’s secret is out.
Quite a number of the local regulars have gone to the happy hunting ground. Brother “Dome,” Rocky Smith, Jimmy, Louie Budenz are all retired or at some other place. Frank Hanley is also gone; rumor has it that he is going on the New York stage. Well, those of us who had him in class always said that he would come to a bad end.
Mr. Turley had an interesting observation the other day in Roman Law. Among the great strides of civilization he lists the discovery of trousers. Off hand, we don’t remember how that got into Roman Law discussion.
We had a big thrill last week. We were sitting in the cafe eating some
thing to take the taste of supper out of our mouth when Ziggy C., the moleskin poet laureate, strode by. He stopped and sat down next to us. We held our breaths. He picked up our Daily Neivs. Our pulses pattered. We said, “Are the scores on that page?” He said “Uh.” We said, “What did the Seahawks do?” He said, “They stink.” We said, “Oh!”
A few days ago we got one of those slim G.I. double-decker beds and were really surprised to find that our maid’s opinion of them was even worse than ours. “Vhy dey do dis ting to us shorties,” she said. “Dis top bet is too gosh darn high.” We were worried that that was her subtle way of letting us know that the top bed would henceforth be left unmade. But it really wouldn’t matter since no one can see up there unless he stands in the sink. We were mistaken though. “Don’ vorry, boyz,” she said as she snatched our new desk chair, the only respectable piece of furniture in the room, and slammed it against the head of the bed, “I got vay to fix.” She bounced on the chair, bent over the top of the bed, yanked up the blanket, and slapped the daylights out of the pillow, muttering to herself, “Jeszcze Polska Nie Zginela.” “How come you no mix top bet up so bat?” We informed her that we pin our editorial selves in every night. She gave us a rather incredulous look.
. For that "particular" card on that "particular* * occasion —
I. W. Lower Co.
DECORATORS
130 N. Michigan St.
IRISH VICTORY DANCE
(Continued from Page 9) itial appearance at a Notre. Dame Victory Dance. Three vocalists will be on hand to sing your favorite tunes.
Tickets to the V-Dance are to be priced at a dollar and a quarter, tax included, and will go on sale Friday, or possibly before. Those wishing to buy their tickets in advance will be able to do so at the Main entrance to the Dining Hall. Tickets will also be sold on the evening of the dance at the Navy Drill Hall. Get your tickets early to avoid the long lines and the last minute rush!
Bill Pelting further announced, “that twelve-thirty late permissions would be granted by hall rectors to all those attending the dance.”
And here is some good news to the habitues of the “Rock”—St. Mary’s girls will be able to attend. As in past years, no stags at the dance will be allowed, and the dance will be an informal affair.
Victory Dances here at Notre Dame have always been a tremendous success and have been enjoyed by members of the student body. It is expected that the dances this year will be bigger and better than ever before due to the large enrollment. Plans for a sizeable turnout are being made and the evening has promise of a lot of enjoyment for those attending.—John Noonan
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661	.
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton. M.D.
• •
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
. LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574.
33
Curator of Wightman Art Galleries Dies
Death claimed one of America’s foremost priests and artists recently when Rev. Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., 79, distinguished painter, and art appraiser, and curatoi* of the Wightman Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame, died on August 24, 1946, at S't. Anthony’s Hospital, Shawnee, Oklahoma. Death re-, suited from pneumonia complicated by a serious heart ailment.
Father Gregory was noted in local art circles for his work in organizing the Wightman Art Gallery, which, chiefly through his skill and efforts, has won the distinction of being one of the finer uni-
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House of South Bend
•
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
BLOCK BROS.
COR. MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour- leaving ■ at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
versity art exhibits in this country. While at Notre Dame, he taught portraiture and outdoor sketching. In 1918, he was awarded an honorary LL.D. degree by this school in recognition of his work in the field of art. Father Gregory left Notre Dame in 1937 to return to his order at St. Gregory’s College, Shawnee, Oklahoma, where he remained until his death. At St. Gregory’s is one of his best known galleries, which he founded and to which he contributed his private collection valued at nearly a million dollars.
Among his best known works are portraits of several American churchmen, including Archbishop Curley of Baltimore, Archbishop Gallagher of Detroit, Archbishop-Bishop Schrembs of Cleveland, and Bishop Meerschaert. His masterpiece, a portrait of Pope Pius X, which was selected personally by His Holiness from a group of several portraits of that pontiff, now hangs in the Vatican Library.	—K. G. Sczveinfest
Two N. D. Professors Serve on Commission
To help contribute to world peace by cooperating in cultural and intellectual fields, a group of leading Catholic educators, including two distinguished philosophers from the University of Notre Dame, have formed the Catholic Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs.
Dr. David A. McCabe, noted Princeton economist who was elected Chairman of the Commission, explained its objectives as being to foster Catholic in
tellectual and cultural cooperation in the United States and to maintain relations with organized and individual Catholic scholars throughout the world. By these means, he added, the Commission hopes to accomplish its primary objective of “contributing to a just and peaceful world.”
The Notre Dame educators who were chosen for important roles with the Commission are the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., one of the outstanding authorities on Scholastic philosophy in the United States, elected to the Executive Committee, and Dr. Yves R. Simon, noted French scholar known as the “Philosopher of the Fighting French,” who will serve on the Committee on Problems and Policies.
Other well-known Catholic educators who are members of the Commission include: The Rev. Dr. Edward V. Sanford, O.S.A., rector of the Augustinian College at the Catholic University of America, who is Executive Director; Dr. Hugh Scott Taylor of Princeton University, Dr. J. C. Hubbard of John Hopkins University, Dr. F. D. Rossini of the United States Bureau of Standards, Dr. Karl F. Herzfeld and Msgr. John M. Cooper of the Catholic University, Dr. Louis J. A. Mercier of Harvard University, the Rev. James B. Macelwane, S.J., of St. Louis University; Dr. Edward F. Fitzpatrick, president of Mount Mary College, Milwaukee, Dr. Goetz Briefs of Georgetown University, Dr. Oscar Halecki and the Rev. Gerald G. Walsh, S.J., of Fordham University and Dr. John J. Meng of Queens College, Brooklyn.
N. D. Outnumbers "Rock" By 8 to I
Roughly speaking, there are eight eligible Notre Dame men for every girl enrolled at. St. Mary’s College, which gees to prove that the acute manpower shortage, which plagued American womanhood during the war, has come to an end.
At SMC there are 545 girls; at Notre Dame there are close to 4,500 men, of which number approximately 500 are eliminated as being married or engaged.
The large turnout at St. Mary’s tea dances the past two Sundays add further proof to the statement that the manpower dearth is over. At both hops, most of the SMC belles were busy cutting rugs with N.D. meh while an impressively large stag line watched the proceedings.
Even the G.I. Bill is not exclusive at Notre Dame. St. Mary’s announced recently that there are a number of exservicewomen enrolled under the G.I. Bill.—Ed Snyder
34
“THE MEN’S CORNER”
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
SUITS and COATS
Kuppenheimer — Botany — Clipper Craft
HATS
Stetson — Lee
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR
Arrow — Wilson Brothers
SPORTS WEAR
Arrow — Wilson Brothers — Bantamac— Windbreaker — Brentwood — Glengary — Monarch
SHOES
Florsheim — Freeman
Rvsc 5 K/’TZ
1 V EO/? MEN AND I V/OtWC MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
35
Copyright 1946. Liggett & Mwxs Tobacco Co.