
6o2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Lesson in Patriotism and Religion*
CAPTAIN J. J. ABERCROMBIE, U, S. VOLS.
'X EVEREND FATHERS, Compa-dlylsZX triots and Comrades:—I am honored in being permitted to stand here \ in this blessed God’s Acre as the chosen orator for Notre Dame Post, G. A. R., a gallant remnant of brave men once soldiers of the Republic, now faith' ful soldiers of the Cross, who today occupy the most unique, as well as the choicest position in the great soldier organization of the United States. My spirit has been stirred to its very depths as I have received the greetings of my comrades and the friendly welcome of the reverend co-workers of him whose memory I shall ever cherish with sincere admiration and loving respect; and as I look into your faces, I can but wish that I were worthy to present my subject. Bear with me kindly, then' and take my efforts as coming from a heart full of esteem and regard.
We are once more assembled—fewer in numbers but riper in years—to bring unfading garlands of affectionate remembrance and to pay tender homage to those honored ones who have passed over the last river of life’s campaigns. The evening time has come to us, life’s shadows are. lengthening, and winter is on the way. Each year shortens our roll-call, sets the frosts of time more markedly among our straggling locks, imprints more deeply, the furrows of time on our cheek and brow, and adds a faltering uncertainty to footsteps * whose once martial tread echoed in the ear of listening nations as we followed our flag through its tempest of war to victory and a peace that established beyond peradyenture our place in’the foremost ranks of all the world’s peoples. For each and all of us, the camp fire of life must soon cease to burn. Even now the smoldering embers glow but feebly, and the flickering flame is fast fading away in the darkness of forever; even now we can hear the faint, mellow bugle-call sounding life’s tattoo; and speedily must follow the taps when the soldier’s good-night call,—put but your lights—lingering on the night’s still air. The stroke must fall that stills forever the . beating of the last loyal, faithful heart that ' once throbbed beneath the coat of blue in a
7 \ * Address delivered on Memorial Day at the graves of . .	the deceased comrades of N. D.- Post, G. A. R.
mighty nation’s struggle. Three decades and more have drifted into the shadowy mists of the past since the going down of the sun upon Appomattox’ crimson field. Thirty-four years it is since we stood with sympathetic hearts listening to the heart-broken chants of the “Miserere” of a gallant though vanquished foe. How far away it all .seems as. we stand here today! How profound the. contrast between those hours and days of bloodshed and the still -serenity of nature as it greets us now! What soul-stirring thoughts, what glorious recollections, what thrilling memories of all that men hold great in war and good and true in individual combat, come, crowding on our minds, as through the vistas of the years gone by we trace the history of the gallant legions as they followed their blood-baptized flag. While the soldiers of the Old World fought to make their monarchs greater, you fought to make, your enemies equal in all things, and to enable their children to enjoy the blessings of this country equally with your own. It is indeed meet and right that we should turn aside from the bustle and turmoil of business.and the selfish struggle for wealth and power and place, which tend to dwarf our affections and repress the. better feelings of our nature; and Jrom the contemplation and the study of the noble examples and the worthy deeds of those who have made the past illustrious draw, lessons which may enable us to* meet with braver spirits and more trustful hearts the responsibilities of the present and the trials of the future.
The graves that cluster;around us here, the peaceful/ resting-places of , a nation’s heroes, are green and fair, and within them they who fell’; after life’s fierce and fitful fever, are sleeping well; and J.we have come to show the world that we? have not forgotten
■ them, Unknown to the great and busy world at large are their'names—unknown to them was the greatness and the-glory of their deeds. And is not this the story of.the world’s best, manhood, and of its best achievements? The work by the great unknown, for, the great unknown—the work that; by fidelity in the ranks,
. courage in the trenches, obedience to the voice of command, patience at the picket line, vigilance at the outpost, tender ministration, and self-abnegation in the succor and consolation to the shattered and dying comrade, is done by the great host that, bear? no splendid insignia. . of rank, and figure-in no commander’s dispatches. The work, with its vast and incalcul-
i
NGTRE DAM1
able and unforeseen consequences for a whole people,— is not this work which we are here today to commemorate. at once the noblest and most vast? And thus we learn Where a nation’s strength, abides. A hundred years and more ago, the most profound philosopher and the most accomplished orator of. modern times said of our forefathers: “In other countries the people more simple, of a less mercurial cast, judge of an ill principle in government only by an actual grievance; here they anticipate the evil, and judge of the pres. sure of the grievance by the badness of the
principle. They augur misgovernment at a distance, and scent the approach to tyranny in every tainted breeze.” These words of Burke are as applicable to the soldier of ’61-65 as to their patriot sires of 1776. Their strong love of liberty and keen appreciation of its blessings, their sturdy self-reliance and law-abiding habits, gave them a conscious self-respect, a spirit of personal independence, a sense of their own, importance, an individuality and pride that made each man feel, as if the fate of every battle hung on his single arm. Thoroughly satisfied of the righteousness and justice of their cause, animated by The loftiest patriotism, shrinking from no hardships, regardless of every danger, in war and in “peace, which hath its victories no less renowned than war,” they have illustrated every virtue that dignifies and ennobles man; and their unparal-, leled achievements and self-restraint, appreciated and applauded by friends and foes alike, will be garnered up in the great storehouses of history as part and parcel of those cherished memorabilia, those eternal possessions, which constitute , a nation’s glory. It was not this man nor that man that saved our republic in its‘hour of supreme peril. Let us not, indeed, forget her great leaders, great generals, great statesmen, the greatest among them all, her ' great martyr and President—Lincoln. But no one of these, then, who would not have told us that which we may all see plainly now—that it was not these that saved their country, but the host of her great unknown. These men.that, without the spur of ambition, the love of glory or the hope of reward, other than that which the consciousness of a. duty well performed brings to every true and noble heart; these, * with their steadfast loyalty; these vyith their -cheerful sacrifices; and these, most of’all, with their simple faith in God and in .the triumph of His right,—these were They who saved us! It . was God in the people that made the
SCHOLASTIC.	603 ... Tg
-	'	’	'	" ’ ' ‘ -I -e' I
heroism which in these unknown ones we are I HlH here today to honor. It must forever be God ‘T? TT in-and with the people that shall make the . ? nation great and wise and strong for any great 1 T'-’/ZZ' emergency. Sweet to you, my comrades, must ZTZTv be the memories of those days long gone by, HlCi recalled by these, services more vividly than / -TT brush can paint or pen narrate; sweet to you .ZZZX; must-be the proud consciousness of having' 7 T gone down into the very jaws of death for your . . country’s sake; and tender indeed are the \ '- -T*: revived recollections of our soldier dead, since . .. T we have been spared to witness the fruition of our works in a reunited and prosperous ' country!	.	T .
The record of the world stands that no army : ever equalled our grand old army of the ' ~ Republic. Flushed with triumph and drunk A ;'T s with the wine of victory, it had become ater- . T rible power for. good or for evil, a menace , in	T/C.
the hands of an unscrupulous leader. But the ? -.ZZ? ties of patriotism, the individual intelligence — and pride of country, paramount in the heart > :; of the boy in blue, governed his going away and his coming home; and coincident with the ... announcement that their work was done, there T = T passed away this magnificent army,this trained „ : and disciplined fighting machine. It vanished ' as in a night, and with the rising of the morning sun there was heard once more the myriad <	. . . 7
voices of industry throughout the land. Banker '	■
and clerk, merchant and artisan, professor and .	.. . '..>C
student, farmer and miner, and all the various types of industrial, life, that had kept a touch ;■ - ;' > of elbow through days of blood and desolation, once more took up the thread of life’s 'Z/ peaceful lines to serve, as law-abiding citizens, the nation they had saved as gallant, loyal 7. soldiers. They had seta precedent and builded	<
an object lesson unpictured and undreamed < of by the rulers of -the Old World. They had T ? ; made their flag the “flag of the free” in fact > as it had only been in name before; for under, its folds, up to that time,, had existed, and . r 7 flourished a system as old'as history, which	I
had prevailed in every nation, age, and clime, / ; ; and which had stood. a bar sinister on fair Z^.-z Columbia’s lustrous shield since the day of her . CZ, ; birth. They had set their, nation upon the ' : '.T heights of Freedom, fearless before the powerful . . . - : ‘ and. magnanimous toward the weak. They had. " .T > cemented with their‘’blood the tottering walls T Z' of- the temple-of Liberty, placing as its. corner - . CHH stone justice and right, that .the government CHS--of the. people, by. the. people, and., for the ‘ people, might stand forever. Generations..may ;. / ? Zj
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
i
come and generations may go, and the issues of their day may pass into the pages of history, but the things that were wrought by the boy. in blue made the triumphs of their sons possible. He of ’61-65 brought forth living results . more far-reaching and enduring because his work made possible the prosperity and progress of the nation, when he secured the perpetuity of these United States of America.
But this was no summer day’s task. The campaigns of the past year were as a passing summer cloud to the wild tempest of war that -encompassed us round about when we kept step to the music of the Union, until we heard “ the glad refrain of rended bolt and falling chain, ’ swelling into a glorious “Te Deum as it broke from the lips of,four millions of swarthy freed men throughout the land of the South. The destiny of other nations as well as our own was-being determined by our battles, and when the end had come the New World was not only freed from the contamination of human bondage, but it was established for all time that no Christian nation or civilized people would again endure that form of human injustice within its limits. The barriers of inherited caste had been beaten down, and the equality of man was no longer a mere fiction, but had become an unalterable reality
and a living truth.
The smoke of conflict has passed away, dur guns have been silent and our sabres sheathed for more than a third of a century; and while those events are but recorded history to the generation of to-day, yet, to those of us who were actors in that drama, it is a holy and . a sanctified memory wherein we dwell heart to heart with those that have only gone before. As months and years pass, we realize more
. arid more the subliriiity bf American courage riorthern home when he went out strengthened . arid the grandeur of American sacrifices! The . and renewed."froiri the care of the Sisters of
. lapse of time only increases'!the glow of the the Catholic Church, :of the soothing touch brightness and splendor of those Triumphs of................
American genius and perseverance. Our annual services are not annual;■self-glorifications, nor arrogant rehearsals of triumphs over a vanquished foe, but rather commemorative of an < epoch in bur history, the;results of which have . provbd :a common blessing arid out; of which : passed Trom cot To; cot,’never faltering, arid -. X has beenbuildbd a temple of •American brother- carrying' the sunshine -of cheerfulness and hoodwherein'all^rnay dwell together in unity, restfulriess in theirjvefy pfesenbe.; Even when :	.	z. }Arid;'riovvTfiat:The bchievernents of the past disease, from its.-very.loathsomeness/and,con--’
year are on Tecofdy thefworld knows that all tagion, drove-all>ot^^
j ; its^ccompHsEmehts'!and ^glories are but the stricken boy , in Blue would; wake-to ;find the . ; ' - deve^	of the great struggle saintly Sister hovering over ;hiin, never weary-.
5; .	arid! tnbula- ih-hqr fwefl^	fobTfie .
tion, with loss and sorrow and great renown, a generation ago'. 'All men see that our sons have fought a battle further .on", in the pro--longation of the same road where, thirty-five years ago, we left our dead and set up the trophies of oiif victorious arms, and all men anticipated that in the progress of future events, the same impulse which we gave will carry the nation forward until human rights are everywhere established and peace comes on to universal sway.	_
But let us consider other affairs, and look over minor results arising from the great conflict;—historians will preserve the glories and victories; let us recall some of the unheralded achievements. ■ Four years of such bloody strife and contention by land and on sea could not but leave its trail of havoc and desolation, until the most insigriificanL±amlet_within. the borders of this great Jand had felt the cruel hand of war, and seen the little mound arise to mark the spot where slept her soldier hero; while throughout the broad land there arose unceasingly the wailing of the stricken-hearted; even like unto the cry of old, “ O Absalom, Absalom, my son Absalom!” When the survivors came straggling home from the hospitals and’convalescent camps, weak and shattered from out the campaigns that had led through fever-laden'morass and malaria-breeding fen, to. mutilating battlefield— men who had felt
I
*

the pangs of dissolution, so near had they been to death,—they told with grateful hearts of the self-sacrifice and devotion of the pious nurse: who had. brought them back to life again, of her quiet and unobtrusive ministrations born of a sense of duty to God and her faith. It was a sweet and blessed memory . that the boy in blue carried with him to his .

and renewed."from the care of the Sisters of
that,.when fainting and weak, had brought to him TheV dreairis of the babbling brook and
scented field,;and-the faces of the dear ones
in his far-away home; of the unremitting tenderness of these "holy women to the fevered and shattered, patient, as silent and brave they

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
erend Father with words of cheer and comfort and welcome relief for his physical as well as. , his spiritual needs. They were the heroes, of the “pestilence that walketh in darkness.” In the glare of the midday sun, in the still watches of the night, amidst the sick and dying,silently and tenderly their work was done. ’
Prejudice is the first-born of ignorance and seldom outlives its parent; and so when the men in blue were gathered together from the uttermost limit of the land to serve under the banner of the Union, very many came charged with their local prejudices and sectional traditions. The narrow limit of their'lives had begotten .narrowness of judgment with bitterness of belief and religious fanaticism. Meeting on the common ground of patriotism their sectionalism became subordinated to the harmony of purpose necessary to the success of the cause. The courtesies of daily intercourse buried enmities, and when they had marched shoulder to shoulder and kept the touch of elbow as they passed through “ the valley of death,” a broader definition of true Americanism was established. New friendships were made and cemented through the comradeship ' in common peril, and-men looked at.the world in a new light. The kindness.and gentleness of . . disposition, the absolute devotion to duty and utter unselfishness of the Reverend Father and the holy Sister, their tender ministrations to the shattered' fragments of humanity on the field and in the hospital, without regard to creed or color or race, was a revelation that
overcame the tyranny of preconceived opinion, life we honored and revered them, and we pray established a new order of things; and religious out of the depths of our hearts—Requiscant intolerance prevailing through the ignorance in pace.	.	,	.	. *	/
of the many and their tenacious holding to tradition, was swept aside by . the living illustrations of self-sacrifice and devotion to duty under all circumstances and the personal demT • onstrations of impartial charity and courageous
self-abnegation exhibited by the black-robed religious of the Catholic faith. And this was not by any means.the least among the beneficent results of the war for. the preservation of the Union. From this new era of mutual con-
up the Roll of Honor of your soldier heroes,7 sideration, patriotic tolerance and regard, came but who now answer only to the . roll of the a new understanding of.-the declaration that Great Commander—Very Reverend William, “all men are born free and equal.” Living Corby, Reverend James M. Dillon, Reverend exemplification by the heroic religious non- Paul E. Gillen,Reverend Joseph Leveque, combatants had ^demonstrated ; the greater Brother Polycarp, Brother Sebastian, Brother breadth'and wider scope; in'their practical defi- ‘ Valerian and Brother Richard. Time will permit nition of the word, Freedom;, and out bLthis of but passing record; but there comes to me new light was conceived the plan, andin that a personal remembrance, and Tcan npt refrain spirit, the comrades of marches many , and of from brief mention of Bro. Polycarp, he - who.
the battlefields where they stood ever in the presence of. death, clasped hands in gratitude' for their deliverance, and joyfully laid, the foundation for that great organization—the Grand Army of the Republic—whose, basic:

§
and whose religion is that of the black-robed : heroes, Priest and Sister, who ministered to'all the suffering and needy soldiers without regard to creed, color or condition of life. They, asked no questions in the field or hospital; we ask no. questions in life save that the needy shall have been true to the flag.under which they lived and from which they claimed protection. As the perfume follows. the rose, so have the good deeds and loving kindness of the Reverend Fathers.and.blessed Sisters remained:‘a fragrant memory in the heart of the boy in blue,] and taught him that lesson of peace and goodwill, which has become a recognized factor in American affairs, and which bids fairto remain a blessing to future generations. To these ends none have contributed more largely than your own loved order, the Congregation of the Holy Cross; and when the records of the Republic shall have been made up, the. name of Notre. Dame will stand emblazoned high on the roll of honor for The example of its leaders, and for the lesson of true , patriotism and pure Americanism taught her sons. ,
As we stand here to-day amid these, peace-r ful scenes, let us call to mind those who stand before the great Captain-King beyond the borderland. In death we salute, them and in
o
IK






“ Some with bayonets in hand, .	.
Some with sword-blade fought:	; .
Some were ordered to stay and stand?
Some how to die were taught! .	;
But by order of the Captain-King, . -	.
Though our comrades be fast sped, . On His muster-call' the names shall ring
Of the living and the dead!” ;
V

You have heard, my friends and compatriots, the honored names of those.who have worked with you and taught with you, and. who. make'






6o6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sailed with that gallant admiral, who fought the fight of wooden walls against walls of stone, and taught the world how American men and guns are invincible; what greater glory can a man ask? And Bro. Sebastian, the iron-hearted, who was of the gallant band of Pennsylvania’s sons, the first of all the nation’s millions to rally to the defense of her Capitol when Secession’s minions threatened its destruction, and who, re-enlisting, fought with the gallant Army of the Potomac from Bull Run to Appomattox, by way of over a hundred bloody battlefields. What a glorious record for mortal man! Take them each and all, brave ' men, cherished names; bright jewels in your
crown of patriotism, fair Notre Dame. Nor ’would we forget those whose names are not
inscribed on the roll of your Congregation, but with whom our dear Father Corby served so honorably and well — Father Thomas F. Mooney, Father Thomas Ouellet, Father M. F. Martin, Father O’Hagan, Father Bourget, Father C. L. Egan, and the brilliant Rev. Doctor Kilroy. They were his loving and beloved friends and co-workers in the Army of - the Potomac, and they should all be our friends and honored comrades as well. We of the Grand Army bow in reverent affection as the roll is called. Many of these were originally and oft-times companions of my soldier days. Each of them honored names, all faithful soldiers and leaders in the Holy“Church triumphant—each, as we recount them, brings up a flood of proud and tender memories. They rest with a consciousness of duty well performed, and with the assurance that they have heard the voice of the Greater Commander saying: “Well done, good and faithful servant! ”
Taking the liberty of paraphrasing a recent speech of our dearly beloved comrade, Archbishop Ireland, I would say: “ Two great lessons come prominently to the fore in the lives of these brave soldiers and servants of God—:the patriot’s love of country and love of Church— Patriotism and Religion. The highest liberty with authority, and the strongest authority with liberty are loved by the Church as they are loved by God, and it is required by all the laws that the Church shall be respected.” It was in this belief that Father Corby acted when he organized your Grand Army Post at - Notre Dame; and standing here to-day our thoughts:revert to him as.the central figure in our memorial service. Coming here nearly half a century ago, I can not think' that his imagination ever spun such a. web of fairy
possibility out of the dreary wilderness he then saw, as has been wrought into a tangible fact in the shape of the splendid structures which now shelter the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame. As Carlyle says: “The heart that remained true to itself never yet found the big universe faithless,” and 1 can not but think that Father Corby found this a truth. Conviction was the keynote of his character—conviction based upon the action of a powerful intellect and a powerful conscience. Conscience, sensitive to over-refinement, told his intellect what was right; intellect, acute, eager, thoroughly informed, showed him -how to reduce the abstract right to the ‘concrete action-, to proclaim the imperative of the hour, so that men saw and, seeing, obeyed. He possessed a mind remarkably quick and clear in apprehension, fertile in developing suggestions into principles, extending in scope, importance and influence far beyond the conception'of the one from whom the suggestion was received. Never dismayed and never untrue amid all the scenes of his eventful life, as a soldier, as a citizen, and as a comrade, he was all that love of country and mankind required. He was social, kind, pure, gentle, serene and learned. Possessing great ability, he lived and'moved quietly among his fellowmen. When be entered upon his duties at this University as its President, it was soon evident that he-possessed every qualification to direct with signal success the affairs of the institution, and to mould the character and minds of those confided to his care. No.figurehead was he, but a worker and a doer, bringing things to pass as they should be. Nothing escaped his attention, from the smallest detail of business to the gravest question of educational policy. Everything felt, with-his presence, a renovating and progressive impulse.
In the darkest hour of our nation’s lifestruggle, when the surging waves of armed rebellion reached'their highest point of destructive onset, with undaunted courage our gallant : comrade, so capable, so firm, so true to his God and his country, realizing the need of more than human aid for the heroes gathered on the field of Gettysburg, his heart turned to the great Captain of all the hosts, Jesus Christ, and with the wild music of the whizzing bullet and the shrieking shell for an accompaniment, he commended the souls of his beloved soldiers to the care of God and gave- them' absolution, and with it came renewed inspiration and faith, under the God. of battles, that

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fay
victory should be theirs. Not only the faithful God that we have lived to see the returned knelt that day in prayer, but those outside of fraternities of the country, and we say as we
his Church knelt with reverent mien and joined in pious,supplication for help from on high. We love the man and his memory for what he was in the fullness of his personal gifts and
graces, and though we shall not mourn his fight the old battles oyer again, and though
taking away, we cherish with a grateful pride the kindly recollection of his long-time nearness to us, and his memory is bound in with our affections enduringly. His well-rounded life flowed like the current of a deep river through fruitful fields, beneath the shadow of stately-forests, beside and blessing garden and city, to the great ocean, the unfathomed, shoreless sea, whose waters await the coming of all souls. He has gone from among us— “gone before the Father, far beyond the twilight judgment of this world, high above its mists and obscurities.” His name is enrolled among the names who have wrought for man in the love and fear of God, and in love unfearing for their fellowmen. Here in victory, supreme over death itself, and death, its conqueror, he rests, his warfare done. Come we then to-day in loyal love to sanctify our memories, to purify our hopes, to make strong all good intent by communion with the spirit of these, who being dead, yet speaketh. Come, child in thy innocence; come, woman in thy purity; come, youth in thy prime; come, manhood in thy strength; come, age in thy ripe wisdom; come citizen; come soldier; let us strew the beautiful flowers around their last resting place; for they, like them, exhaled in their- life nature’s beneficence, and the grave has consecrated their lives and given it to us.
Reverend Fathers and young gentlemen of Notre Dame, your heroes dead have left you a legacy of an indissoluble union of indestructible States, compact of purpose for liberty and. humanity. Guard well your charge from foes without and treachery within; and above all. repember that it can only be yours so long as you may prove worthy of it. Like that Heavenly manna sent to the Children of Israel, the. day wherein it is misused it will become a rottenness and a stench in the land.
And now has come the time when I. must say hail and farewell. To have been foremost, even for a passing hour, amongst my comrades in the reviving of their hallowed memories, is high reward for the comradeship and loving consideration I bear, for you all. I.would that the duties your regard has .laid upon me this day had been better discharged. We thank
are leavnig our purposes and positions, our regrets and achievements: “Lord, lettest thou thy servants depart in peace.” The reveille shall call us but little longer to meet to
■g
the bugle sounding taps shall soon echo .. through a deserted camp, we feel in the goodness and loving kindness of our friends and compatriots, that our memories will be still , secure.	.	'	.
And now, Reverend Fathers, Brothers, and young gentlemen, dear companions and friends of Notre Dame, we salute you, arid declare we \ love and honor you. You have given strength to us when needed, and your patriotic, example and pure Americanism has helped us to carry . the honored memories of the Grand Army of . the Republic forward through the years. -To your loving care I confide the few remaining , comrades of dear Father Corby’s Post. Bear with their infirmities, and lead them through green fields and pleasant pastures to their last abiding place. “They have fought a good fight,” and in our hearts we know that their . thoughts turn ever to the land of the ideal, where the Almighty ruler of the universe and . Captain of our hosts has placed their comrades along the picket lines just before the . eternal camping grounds to hail and greet them when the shadows shall have lengthened . and the sunset time shall have come. .	,
The Memory of the Noble Dead.*
ELMER CROCKETT, NORMAN EDDY POST, NO. 57g.
It is a great pleasure for me indeed, and a great honor as well, which I fully appreciate, on behalf of Norman Eddy Post and the Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic living in South Bend, to thank, you, the members of the Notre Dame Post, for your very kind invitation to assist in the exercises of this day in this place.
Notre Dame Post is known throughout the length and breadth of our united and happy country. No other university in our broad land can boast of such an organization within its walls. I shall ever cherish in memory the humble part I was called upon to perform, as a department officer, when this Post was
* Address delivered on Memorial Day at the graves of the deceased comrades of N. D. Post, G. A.- R. ■ •

6o8
NOTRE DAMES SCHOLASTIC.
mustered into the' Grand^Army’of the Republic, and I shall never forget the eloquent and patriotic words uttered by Father Moirissey, the honored. President of this great University, on that occasion. Yet amid these pleasant recollections there comes over us a sadness from which we can not escape. .
You well remember, Comrades, that one of your number, whom we all loved, stood with ■ us that night in apparently perfect health. He enjoyed the occasion. Everyone felt cheered by that well-known smile. The love he entertained for his comrades was written in his face. He appeared to us then, as he truly was, every inch a soldier, a patriot , and a friend. You made him your first commander and you could not have, been more honored. Father Corby loved us as we all loved him. The pleasant memory of this great and good man, this brave and fearless war chaplain, will be with us while life shall last. To-day Father Corby is in the bivouac of the dead, and it is one of our sad duties to place above his ~ grave the wreath and the flowers as he fully expected us to do.
. Memorial Day was named by the. Grand '	Army of .the Republic more than thirty years
ago. The years have come and the years have gone since then; many of those who first performed these solemn and impressive ceremonies have gone to their long home, and yet to us the day remains. We are willing to hand it down to our children, and it now.looks as though we would be permitted so to do.
Every loyal soldier heart within dur organization rejoices that to-day, after so many
years of hatred, he can march shoulder to shoulder with his countryman who fought in the confederate army,,and together they can < decorate the graves of those who wore the ;
blue and the gray alike. -	;
The. ceremonies of this day were instituted 1 because we love our comrades living and cherish the memories of our comrades dead. There a nation, and have since helped to make our is a strong tie that binds us together. We feel government the greatest and best the world it in. our heart of hearts , and in every ,fibre of has ever seen. The late war has demonstrated
our being. This tie Iwas welded on the march, in the siege and on the field of battle, in the presence of the old flag. J Words fail fully to describe this welded link. =
The members of the Grand Army of the ; Republic had another purpose in view when this day was set apart to commemorate the memory of pur departed brothers. It was.then ; hoped that in object lesson, in' partriotism -. might be the result, and you know, that their
hopes were not in vain,.and that they builded even better than they thought.
The young soldier then believed and the old soldier is still of the same opinion, that there , is one duty he owes to his country and he will try to perform it while life shall last. That duty is to teach the rising generation to love that’flag as he has loved it. He was taught on the fields of Shiloh, of Missionary Ridge, Chickamauga, Gettysburg and Antietam, to respect every fold in the old banner. He has a different estimate of it now than ever before. The old soldier may appear rough and uncouth outwardly, but he becomes-very tender when in the presence of the flag of his country. When he sees it assailed a great lump appears in his throat, and he wonders if he has not strength sufficient to carry a musket again, or to endure the march. He believes that where the flag, is, there sterling patriotism abounds. He feels like taking off his hat to salute the one emblem of our country, whether it be floating on high, as we see it to-day-above that beautiful campus, or in the hands of a boy who has been taught the lesson of true patriotism. . But this day no longer belongs to the Grand Army of the Republic. It is the property of the nation and it is observed by all our people. It will be commemorated long after the last soldier who took part in our Civil War shall have passed away.
My Comrades, in the disbanding of the greatest army ever organized, of . which you were members, you. gave to this nation and to
the world at large one of the best lessons on citizenship ever recorded in history. When you returned from the field to civil life you resolved to give to this country a better government, to raise the standard of citizenship and make true liberty and the rights of man the corner-stone of the great Republic. Your effbrts have not been in vain. You made it
possible for the United States to continue as
the fact that we can safely leave the flag in the hands of those who come after us. There are fresh soldier graves in our land today. Many young heroes have been stricken down in defense of our flag since last Memorial Day. Their loss is keenly felt, and we this day cover their tombs with flowers.
-. _ ~ /‘On Fame’s eternal camping ground Their silent tents are spread,	_
- . - ; And glory guards with solemn round' ;" .J -.	; / /The bivouac of the dead.” ‘	' r

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Finally, Comrades, we are rapidly approach. ing the sunset of our lives. Let us, while living, continue to be as faithful to every responsibility as citizens as we were true to every- duty as soldiers. When we are dead may it be said • of you-and of me, as Archbishop Ireland wishes it to be said of him: “ He was not an unworthy comrade of the Grand Army of the Republic.”
Decoration Day Prayer, 1899.
’ REV. P. P. COONEY, C. S. C., CHAPLAIN N. D. POST.
O God of infinite wisdom and mercy, through whom all laws are, rightly administered, assist with Thy holy spirit of counsel and fortitude the ■ President of these United States, that his administration may.be conducted according to the laws of justice and mercy, and tend to the welfare of Thy people over whom he presides.
May the light of Thy divine wisdom direct the deliberations of Congress, so that they may secure for us the blessings of peace, the promotion of national happiness, and the perpetuation of the blessings of equal liberty.
We pray for his Excellency, the Governor of this State, the members of Assembly, the judges and magistrates and all other- officers who are appointed to guard our political welfare, that they may by the light of Thy wisdom be enabled to discharge the'duties of their respective stations with fidelity and wisdom.
O God of infinite mercy, we pray Thee to remember especially the souls of thy sen-ants who have gone before us with the sign of faith, and w-ho have given
their*lives in defense of our admirable Government, Welcome today to show our appreciation of their great sacrifice by decorating their graves; and while we deposit flowers on their graves, we inwardly feel how feebly they express our deep love and gratitude for the -pure patriotism of the dead. In praying for our dead comrades, O God of mercy, we do not forget those who are living. We beseech Thee to watch over the souls of those who are now exposed to the horrors of war and to the spiritual dangers peculiar to a soldier’s life. May Thy grace fortify them against the contagion of bad example, that thus being preserved from vice in serving
Thee they may be ever ready in the discharge of their . that filled'the armies of the ,nation met foemen. duties-to meet death whenever it comes. This is the	'	*	,	-	.
spirit fostered by the Grand Army of the Republic, which, we. beseech Thee, O Lord! to take under Thy . special care individually and collectively. Infuse into
the hearts of all its members the spirit of charity and true patriotism, that thus they may carry out the main objects of their organization, viz., to aid one another in
sickness and misfortune and to foster the true spirit of patriotism by which love for our glorious Union and Constitution may be daily increased in the hearts of all.
May the members of the Notre Dame Post be ever
among the most zealous in carrying out these objects. Then may we entertain the joyous hope that on the
• Fourth of every successive July of the twentieth century,	,	■	.
when our national"banner is unfurled,to the breeze.it	great, world powers. No trooping forces stand
will present to the eye of the beholder the same 45	at beck, and call equipped with guns; no con-,
• bright stars; and that the;Republic itself may take its script laws are written on our statute books;— .proper place in the political firmament, not as a star . a ca|j;|-0 arms alone is needed. While poverty is hidden by the.lightof the sun, but itself as a sun.to	.	.....	. .	.
; t illumine the political’heavens of the Western World. ’	{Continued bd Page	. •, ?
Why Memorial- Day*is Observed.2
FRANCIS O'SHAUGHNESSY, IQOO.

The brightest flowers are plucked tp-day and laid upon the soldiers’ graves. In the busy, city streets the shops are closed; the workmen
■1
, leave their tools; the factories and mills Tare stopped, and everywhere throughout the land is heard the muffled drum and the funeral
march - as the old guard walks solemn-wise to decorate the green-clad mounds of comrades. This day in all the year is given to the memory of the men. that fought the nation’s battles. -This day in church and chapel the requiem is chanted for the unforgotten dead. Back,as ' far as history goes the custom has been observed for nations to set apart a day in . honor of their fallen soldiers.	'
Here in the United'States Memorial Day should hold the highest place of honor, / because volunteers have fought the nation’s . battles. Life was dear to these men, but dearer ? still was country; and as we look upon the graveyard-mounds that form our soldiers’ tombs, our minds are drawn away from sordid things because we stand before the shrine of .
patriots.	. .	. .	.
Memorial day is not a feast of exultation because the conquered of the war were of our . own. The grey coats of the Confederacy enwrapped the breasts that throbbed with,the -ardor of a cause they thought was just. They thought their fight was fair, and the valor they : displayed confirmed it. - - .	,	.	„
No one that knew the southern men would say they were not brave, and the volunteers
worthy of the name. Five years these armies fought—long dreary years, for death was everywhere — and when the cannon’s roar was stilled a nation Tay exhausted—spent, in strength, spent in wealth, but united stilL The volunteers had saved the nation, but when the
. muster rolls, were, read one-half the number slept in death. .	•	.	-
European Tands are defended by armies counted by the hundred thousands; but the- ; United.iStates stands out unique . among the -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, June 10, 1899.
itDlfstjcU cbtrn Saturban During JTtrm dime at fl. IB. Snibcrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
SHERMAN STEELE, ’97; THOMAS A.-MEDLEY, ’98;
RAYMOND O’MALLEY, ’g8; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, '99;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99; EUGENE A. DELANEY, ’99;
EDWARD C. BROWN, ’99; JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99;
JULIUS NIEUWLAND, ’99; JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99;
- JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, ’99; LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99; FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY,’oo; LOUIS C. M. REED, I900; THOMAS J. DILLON, I900;
ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
H. P. BARRY,	)	_ i
( Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	C
We are pleased to note that since Father Morrissey’s visit to Europe he has decided to add two new courses to the University’s curriculum. One includes studies in Economics and History, the other embraces Architecture. Of the importance of the first course we need scarcely speak since its usefulness spreads out through many walks. A postgraduate course in these studies will form the School of Journalism.
Notre Dame’s great athletic success is in no small measure due to the encouragement received from the President and Faculty. While looking after the development of the mind they have not forgotten that a well-trained body is necessary for a useful and active man. Hence the building and equipment of our gymnasium was carefully looked after in order that students might have ample opportunity for physical culture. At present Father Morrissey is endeavoring to secure the services of a competent and well-experienced physicaldirector, so that hereafter our athletes and all students will be carefully trained and developed.
—The Scholastic makes its valedictory by taking a resume of the past work of Notre Dame, and pointing in a conservative manner to what we may expect in the future. In the last few years we have marched to the front with steady progress, until this year we reach our highest point by being first in the athletics of the state, second in the athletics of the West; first in debate, first in dramatic work,—since we are the only ones to produce a Greek tragedy in its original language,—first in wireless telegraphy, and running evenly abreast with all others in general class work. Every course has been raised and rounded out; the requirements for graduation are higher; the courses are more definite, so that the student may know just what is required of him, and just where he stands. Thoroughness is the essential of all work.
Behind this advancement, urging and directing it, has been one person whose special care is to raise our standard and make the sons of ’Notre Dame the peers of graduates in any other university. Our great success can be traced back to; Rev. President Morrissey; whose interest in .all departments is limited only by securing for the students the greatest comfort, pleasure and advantages in-thdir work, and the best results from their labor.
—Well,.fellows, perhaps we will not see you. again before you go, so let us say farewell. In the stretch of college life just run, we have been breast and breast all along the line, and so we reach the milestone together. Here, where we separate to run on different tracks and finish, we know not where, we claim that our past work has entitled us to a lasting comradeship with you. Perhaps you may not have noticed us, while you were rushing along, your course. You may never have stopped to see whose feet were clattering at your side. Yet, gentlemen, the old Scholastic had "its entry in the racei We had our channel to run in, and though it did not lead us in front of-the grandstand for a finish, we came out bearing points for old Notre Dame. Never yet, though many have run dead heats with us, have we lowered qur colors. We were always—but, then, this year’s races are done, and the Scholastic is highly satisfied with all. We shall stop you no longer; bur farewell is this: Athletes, baseball, football and track, debaters, students, professors, Faculty, and all Notre Dame, may the best be yours, and. may your shadows ever walk ’mid- life and love and happiness and good old friends, and let us never forget that dur honor and progress; are those, of -Notre Dame. .

- .	'	.	. < J ' '	'	' ' '..X'SII
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6ti /X
• ’	-	•	-	\ - . • - r*«
Corpus Christi Procession.
The Elocution Contest.	% ? '
Among the many beautiful ceremonies of the Church that occur throughout the year, there is none more imposing or fraught with more meaning than the procession of Corpus Christi. And probably nowhere in America is this ceremony conducted with more pomp and splendor than here at Notre Dame, where all the conditions seem arranged to add to the beauty and solemnity of the occasion. The feast of Corpus Christi dates its origin to the thirteenth century. The Church always has celebrated the institution of. the Eucharist on Thursday in Holy Week. But since' that season is taken up with a consideration of Christ’s passion it was desirable that another . day be set apart as the feast of the Blessed Sacrament. This consideration prompted a petition to Urban IV. for the celebration of the feast throughout the Church. The Pope assented, moved partly by his desire to stem the heresy of Berengarius, which denied transubstantiation, and in 1264 the feast was instituted. From the first the procession has been part of the ceremonial. Corpus Christi this year came upon June the first, but its celebration at Notre Dame was postponed until last Sunday, when the procession took place.	'
At half-past seven in the evening all assembled in the College Church for the opening ceremony. Rev. President Morrissey officiated, assisted by Fathers French and Crumley. The procession then formed; the students of the various Halls, the Community and University - Band preceding the Priests, who, clad in golden vestments, bore the Sacred Host. At Sorin Hall the procession halted, the words of the 0 Salutaris and Tantum. Ergo broke the evening stillness, and from the altar erected upon' the stone porch the Benediction was given. The procession then moved- round the' oval, its path ablaze with lights and strewn with flowers, up to the steps of Science Hall, where a second altar stood, and here the Benediction again was given. To the beautiful strains of the Venite Adoremus the procession then moved on.to the Main Building, where again it halted; and at the large altar upon the massive porch the Sacred Host for a third time was raised on . high. Returning to the Church the final Benediction was given, and all joined ,in the singing of the Te Deum. Thus closed one of the most imposing ceremonials of the scholastic year, .
In the Elocution Contest Wednesday morn-? ing, Mr. Alfred J. Duperier was awarded;first place. With reason, it may be said, the contest k 'x'xxfl was of a high order. Each number was given with ease and no little degree of finish...Im-provement on all other contests was noticeable in the unity and vividness that characterized /XTXi the drawing of the “pictures.” Contestants in former years were possessed of as much . / ?i X ease and grace, enunciated as clearly and had \ as much self-command as the elocutionists;of the present year; individuals in earlier contests Txxl have presented good “pictures,” but ’ no' setX/XxgX of contestants has been seen in Washington : xXX Hall in recent years that presented selections TxXX? so clearly, that, gave the graphic touch to the X-X=|g; pieces, as did the men, without exception, of this programme. The attention, of the~audi- . , f. ' i ence was rarely -lost after the scene was .-V outlined, and perhaps, in no instance was the “picture” drawn and afterward blurred and \x'-X obscured by senseless movement, lack of expression and meaningless waving of arms. . :	/
There was an approach in nearly every se- XX X lection to the art of vocal expression, which is very gratifying and promises well for the future.	'	’
. The preliminaries left six men to compete ’X;'X for the medal, and they came to the test well \.X;7;X prepared and well trained. Mr. Alfred Duperier- > --x opened the contest with “The Dying Alche- ' mist.” He deserved the first place by his per- . - ; sistent work, which was evidenced. by; his x?x improvement since last year. Mr. Harry V. TXX Crumley was awarded second place. He.de- . , livered “ Parrhasius and the Captive.” Mr.Wm. . ; ’ -X X. Wimberg ranked third with “ The Polish Boy.” x xx-X Mr. Charles Baab gave “The Black Horse and x His Rider.” Mr. John J. O’Connell chose “ShiprX-wrecked.” Mr. Matthew Schumacher closed-xxXx the contest with “Rienzi to the Romans?’ ,X/:i.X7
Mr. M. J. McCormack played a violin solo / ;'X .between the fourth and fifth numbers, which v brought great applause from the audience. ;:XiXX^ The University Glee Club sang “ L’Estudian- XLx-X tina”at the beginning and “ Sweet and Low” -X?Xx at the close, in its usual good style. ■ 7xX;;X-X
After the vocal number the winner of the ?XXX contest was announced, following the precedentX -established in the Oratorical Contest of last ;xxX week. The judges were Prof. C. O." Davis, Rev..' , XXK|| J. ’F. DeGropt and Rev. A.: Zubowicz, ■ all: of .
South Bend.	. .. X "xx xX x^x^
612	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Father O’Neill’s Poems'.
I had known Arthur Barry O’Neill intimately for many \ years; I had read everything he wrote, and had felt for his work more than languid admiration, but not till this little book,* in its drab Quaker dress, fell into my hands did I realize how much and how well Father O’Neill had written. A poet who frequents the magazines may impress you with his power; it is only when his work is gathered into covers that you can justly estimate his achievement.
Father O’Neill is not an Anglo-Saxon, and the birthright of the Celt is an instinct for. musical’ language. If Walt Whitman had had a single Irish ancestor even twelve degrees removed he could never have been so austferely tuneless, and Francis Thompson—beautiful exotic that he is!—would be a more readable poet if a few of the. old kings had perched on the branches of his family tree. No Celt ever wrote as these men. It is true that our Austin O’Malley did make some verses—
and good ones, too—in sportive imitation of Thomps_pn, but it was a momentary lapse from grace (just to show he could be as wicked as any Anglo-Saxon), and he was soon back in the fold. Now, Father O’Neill’s verse is remarkably musical—not merely' fluent and regular, but melodious, too. A good test of the music-power of. a poet is to observe whether his lines sing themselves into.the memory, and the bulk of “Between Whiles” stands that test easily} In proof of this statement I wish. I could * reprint here “ My .Queen,” “ At a Grave in Winter,” “A Reward,” “The Duty of Praise” (a badly chosen title for a poem) and “Judge Not,” besides the two long poems, that close the volume. The last of these was written to celebrate a reunion of old boys in the college at Memramcook, which is Father O'Neill’s Alma Mater. It has much the flavor of Oliver Wendell Holmes’ verses on similar occasions. Here, for instance, is how the poet remembers those primitive times:	_	:
The low-browed rooms, the stinted space, the worn, uneven floor, The plain rough desks whereon were carved initials by the score; Z '	The box-stoves quaint that made a feint of warming chambers two,— -
'	One half the stove in either, and the heat .air up; the flue!’
The other of these poems is “ The Legend of Brother Eugene,” a remarkably good specimen of the narrative poem. It is thoroughly enjoyable, and, incidentally, it bears upon the knotty question of “predestination” that college boys ask trustful}professors to disentangle for them at stated^ periods—-especially when it., is. too ..hot to.prepare. class-work..	'
Satan-calls on Brother Eugene after all his imps have vainly striven to draw the holy young monk out of his monastery and-into a career of . mere pleasure-seeking. The devil’s argument is that Brother Eugene is the most foolish of men for practising the austerities of ’ the convent, since. God has already decreed either; his t salvation or his damnation, and no virtue on the Brother’s part can change the decree:^, i	; . J -	1
-'	' *	-	. ?God= sees-ybu. m heaven, or /seesyou in heli,\/Z.Z ’ M	r
:	\	. Z ’ Where He sees.you you’ll go, live you ill or;well.	:
It is then that Eugene recognizes the tempter,; and meets his logic with this argumentum ad diabolum:	// .Z k	-J ."EE E^EE ~~E	y-;-. ./ -	-
. .Then, you say thatmy fate was decreed long ago,.	' That God sees my .future. 1 know to be true,.
Z’ That my lot I can}ne’er hope to change; - ... He see:s that I’ll; live well or il^	\	.
Now,/supposing all this1 :to.be even so;/ —	. ,. ; WhicfiZmeans/t^	what hereafter I’ll do
/I conf ess. that it strikes me as strange	. ,	. / ./
That you work so hard men’s souls to gain— ’ //. But that Gp'd’s foreknowledge coerdes my act,' . .
/ If your logic is sound; then your;work must be vain. / . Neither I,.nor yourself, believe to be fact. ’ Z;/ It is said—of course without , foundatiqn-Z^that when Rich/f^
Diirine, the creator ibF.“ pb61ey,” .Davis said “ How grange!
• c *ZBetweeh Whiles.. A collection; of yerses. by ArthunBar^ O’Neill, C. S. C. cD^^^	;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-r
’V
f
find you wearing Donegals.” To which Mr.
Dooley replied: “And I expected to find you
■: in a pink shirt-waist.” It is easy to miscon-
Exchanges./
ceive a writer from his book, but no one who This is the last issue of the Scholastic for
reads “ Between - Whiles ” can get a wrong this year in which the exchange column will ap-impression of its author. - Whatever else Father pear, and I take advantage of that fact to make'a O’Neill has. written into this book, he^ has little valedictory of my own. The valedictory, certainly written himself into it. Read its however, will be without tears, for while it is swift-running lines, palpitating with' energy, . very pleasant to receive and look over more than a. hundred college papers, it is very, dry? work to write a column abo'utTthem" every week. Consequently, the regret at parting from the exchanges is offset by the thought that never again will I.have to write a word.about
bodying forth some fine fancy or some antique concettfi in superbly wrought metre, and you get a fair impression of the clear head and the deft, hand and the forceful character that penned .them. They are distinctly virile, richly tinted
with sentiment, but without a suggestion of them. The . consolation, doubtless, is mutual
bathos or sentimentality. They are conscientious; you may find lines that are somewhat
lacking in smoothness, and at times, .there is false emphasis in the metre, but you .will, not in the whole volume find'a single half-rhyme
There are a number of papers that come to us. that I have failed ever, to review or even men-, tion.; The solitary cause of this neglect is the
fact that our exchange list.isso large that it has ; been impossible to give due notice to all. Some
such as abound in the work of most contem- discrimination was necessary; for the- most porary poets.	part it has-been haphazard, though, naturally,
I find, on looking back over these.hasty lines, preference was given the larger and more pre-. that. I have quoted a few samples of Father . .tentious publications.^ “My7successor shall -be ' O’Neill’s lighter moods, and none which illus- impressed with -the necessity of<method,and trate the serious side of his work. Well, if I perhaps hereafter the ground will-be covered were the author of “ Between Whiles ”1 would more thoroughly? than I have been able-1 to.
* be quite willing to rest all my claims on these coyer/it.. .	-.	7 ,	.. 7 7 7	. 77 •
, The past year certainly has been, a. most -successful one: for . college journals. Nearly"
strong lines:
Be not alert to sound .the cry of shame Shouldst thou behold a brother falling low. His battle’s ebb thou seest; but its flow—
The brave repulse that heroes’ praise might claim
- Of banded foes'who-fierce against him came,
>His prowessTong sustained, his .yielding slow— 'Till this thou knowest.as thou canst not know, Haste not to rbrand with , obloquy his fame.
“Judge hot,’’ hath said the Sovereign Judge of all, Whose eye alone not purblind .is nor dim,—
, . Perchance, a swifter than thy brother’s fall -'; Haclst thou received from those who. vanquished him .He coped,, it may be, with unequal odds,— \
‘ .Be thine to pity;, but to judge him,- God’s.
alb of the .literarypapers now are published monthly, and the work done, in them- is surprisingly good: ; The: short story has quite
superceded the essay, in college magazines, and as a consequence the work shows greater orig- -7; inality and ingenious cleverness than formerly. The Yale Courant, for ^instance, contains only . fiction, and it is one of the cleverest little publications in the country. Illustrations is another ' department of the magazine to which .college editors are beginning to pay some attention.
. For Notre Dame men, past and present, this Here the Red amd. Blue leads itscontempora-volume has . a. peculiar interest from the fact ries, it having by far. the best staff artists, that Father O’Neill held the chair of Rhetoric . The exchange columns, as a rule, are poorly , in our university, about, six years ago. Many conducted.._Sidney Smith said that you should , of the old boys of ’93 and earlier :will-be glad hot .read a .book that you intend to review: .
; ;to knowThat these poems have been published; this.is the plan, I fear, that we exchange men in-book form. They will want the volume as adopt. This, however, is not the only trouble.
. a souvenir of the days when the genial, whole-- with the exchange columns; they generally ;7. ’ hearted priest used .to‘‘ call class.” And I ven- .- are weak and pointless and reform is greatly
’ 7ture to say that .no one will be prouder than needed in regard to . them. I believe it is tfiey .when they learn .that many of the poems . possible, if , properly conducted, to make an ; comprised in this little book were thought ex ch age column readable.	7 . ..
: r worthyofa place in Carmind Mariana,?a remark-'	With this criticism of my own department
•7 able anthology compiledbyOrby Shipley, one and a plea for reform, I make my final bow .of-Cardinal Newman’s-associates. 7 . J ? C. and bid adieu.	Sherman-Steele.










614
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Augustin Daly Dead.
It was with a severe shock that the news of Augustin Daly’s death was received in this country last Thursday. In Paris at two o’clock "Wednesday, June 7, the great theatre manager passed away. . Heart' failure, preceded by an attack of pneumonia, is said to have been the cause of his death. His remains will be brought to his native country.. Such are the facts we learn from the Paris dispatches. -
“ To the great mass of his fellow-countrymen, who care nothing for a play manager more or less, the death, of Augustin Daly is not noteworthy; but to the large class who take an interest in matters theatrical, to those who-study the stage and watch its evolutions, to
. AUGUSTIN DALY, LL. D;,’89; L/ETARE MEDALLIST,’94. the . numerous lovers of the drama and its . artistic production, the death of Daly is more . than a mere trivial event. No manager of the present day has done more for the stage in.
-America than Augustin Daly. Against the z gross tendencies of popular taste he has worked steadily and, unweariedly for the past
. - quarter century. He hashad his trials and his . failures, but he never .flinched; and in the end he established something like a standard .
. of excellence by. which all' other managers should be measured. He succeeded in.educat-. Ing actors and actresses a-many, and with these he also educated the public. He made Fanny.
-	; Davenport, John Drew, Ada Rehan, and many ,
others the stars, that, they are, arid with undoubted genius for stage management he made
. , ; ‘ the operatic cornedy and its setting a.thirig of ; the finest beauty^ He did more, than any. other
manager of our time to bring back Shakspere to his rightful place upon the stage, and he did this regardless of expense and often at a great loss.
Mr. Daly was in his sixty-first year and all his life was an indefatigable worker. He literally lived in his work. He is known principally as a manager, but he achieved his early successes as a playwright and adapter. He has also , written a life of Peg Woffington, which is said to be the best biography in the language. He had a keen sense for the aesthetic and was a severe and painstaking manager.
, At Notre Dame the news of Augustin Daly’s death was received with sincere sorrow. On June 15, 1891, he took his company here, and ; no treat was ever more appreciated by the students of that day than the fact that Ada Rehan and others.of Daly’s company played behind the footlights.of our college stage in Francois Coppee’s “The Prayer” and in “A Woman’s Won’t.” In 1894 the University con-, ferred upon Mr. Daly, who had already been made an LL. D., the honor of the Laetare Medal, which was formally presented to him at his residence in New York by Archbishop Corrigan...	.
He was a scholar of worth and parts, a devout Catholic and a charitable man. At Notre Dame his loss is deeply felt, and the Scholastic begs to assure his widow and his brother, Judge Daly, of the sincere sympathy. . of all at Notre Dame for them in their bereavement. May he rest in peace!
Intercollegiate Games.
Captain Powers and his men returned from the Western Intercollegiate Meet without the pennant; however, they won second place, and were credited with three of the four new records made at Ravenswood last Saturday. Powers^put the shot 40 feet 5% inches, beating Roller’s mark of 38 feet.3% iriches. He also, with Louis of Iowa, raised the high jump mark from 5 feet 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches, Gaffney brought home the third record by lowering Taylor’s mark of 0:34 3-5 .in the quarter-mile bicycle race to 0:31 2-5.
When our then set off for the games no one at Notre Dame doubted that the team, to a man, would.do all that it was capable of doing. They made such a good showing that every son of this.place is very proud of them. Thirty-three pointsAmade our total against Chicago’s . forty-six. Certainly, the winning of second place , must be a great satisfaction to one of the. youngest members of the association; but when; we consider the disadvantages and unfavorable. ^conditions against which our men struggled, we must say, too much honor can not be given to Powers and his men. :
: V Pbwefs was ,the feature of the rheet, a thing
Notre dame
scholastic.
that is habitual with him on, such occasions. He was almost invincible, taking in all twenty-one points. He is easily the best athlete that ■ has been known in the West.
Next to Powers, Corcoran did the best work for Notre Dame. He lost both dashes to Bur-
of St. Aloysius’ day, which the little men of St. Edward’s Hall anticipated by about two. weeks. They feasted and played ball from-early forenoon until sunset, when they returned to the University well pleased with their day’s enjoyment.
■J
boughs; but won the trial heat in. the 220,	—Thursday evening the St. Joseph Literary,
which was the fastest in the race. His show- and Dramatic Society gave a reception to Bro.
ing gives very great promise. Considering that he has been in the dashes only since April, his work was nothing short of marvelous.
Gaffney was our next best point-winner, taking first in the quarter-mile bicycle race. He rode a beautiful race, and lowered the record in this event 3 1-5 seconds.
Eggeman won our last point by taking third in the shot put. The remaining- men of the team fought bravely to the end for points that failed to increase our total. This is the story of our first appearance in the Western Intercollegiate games.
Local Items.
Boniface on the occasion of his feast day. The exercises consisted of an address, several recitations, and a debate on the subject, “Resolved, That the United States should not extend her territory beyond the Western Hemisphere.” Messrs. J. Corley, Cullinan, and Furlong won the debate for the affirmative; the negative was upheld by Messes. E. Corley, McElligot and Dorian. Mr. Benson, President of the organization, made the address to. Bro. Boniface, and Messrs. Toner, Curran, Long, -Shields, Barry, McDermot, and Crepeau gave the readings. A pleasant part of the entertainment was furnished by some graphophorie selections.	.
—Programme for the Fifty-Fifth Annual’ Commencement of the University of Notre . Dame:
—Want of room prevents us giving a full
account of the banquet given the class of igoo ’	Sunday, june iith. .	-
at Hotel de Haney.	8:oo A. M...................... Solemn	High Mass
c n • j -	, ,	-	Very-Rev. President Morrissey Celebrant.
The following dispatch trom Manager Baccalaureate Sermon by the Rev. Luke J. Evers, Ragan tells of another victory for the Varsity.	. - .
Kalamazoo, Mich., June 8.
Notre Dame-Scholastic:
Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, nine; Kalamazoo,eight. Fleming pitched five innings, Gibson four.—Ragan.
Here’s another one:—;
Albion, Mich., June 9.
Notre Dame Scholastic:
Albion, five hits, two runs. Varsity, twenty hits, eighteen runs.—Ragan.
—The Feast of the Sacret Heart was celebrated yesterday. At eight o’clock Solemn High Mass was sung by.Father Burns, with Father Morrissey deacon and Father Quinlan subdeacon. Last -Friday a week ago the Catholic students received Holy Communion in a body and thus finished the ninth consecutive Communion of the novena in honor of the Sacred Heart.
—The competition prize drill for the gold medals to be given to the best-drilled privates in the military compa.nies was held last Tuesday. Both medals were won by men in Company A captained by Mr. James F. Murphy. Ralph J. Elwanger proved himself the best at following the manual of arms as well-as the foot movenfents. First medal was awarded to
2:00 P. M
A. B.’79, A. Mi’86.
..Solemn Benediction and Te Deum
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12-14. Examinations. .
TUESDAY, 7:30 P.'M.	,	/
Illumination and Band Concert, at St. Joseph’s Lake WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.	.
8:00 A. M......................Closing Examinations
10:00.A. M............-...-............... .\ .Regatta ;
12:00 M............................  ;......i.Dinner
2:00 P. M.... . .Closing Exercises at St. Edward’s Hall
3:00 P. M.......Baseball Game on Brownson Gainpus
6:00 P. M........................   ;.......’..Supper
7:30 P. M........'...Band Concert on the Quadrangle -WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 7:30 P. M.
Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall “Marche Celebre”..............................Lochner	.
University Orchestra.	'- */
Bachelors' Discourses.
Oration ..............“The Utility of Universities.” . :. v Mr: Edward C. Brown (Iowa) -
“ L’Estudiantina”.........................  .Lacome
University Glee Club.
Oration............."	The Utility of Scientific Schools ”
Mr. Eugene A. Delaney (Penn.). .
“Scene de Bal let”.........:..............De:Beriot
him. Mr. Grover C. Davis won the second
medal.	' \	r r
—Last Thursday, while the students of the , orona lon .other halls were deep1 in their books and while Quartette.. ' the Laws were undergoing the rigors of an
Mr. M. J. McCormack.
Oration............“The Utility of MedicalSchools.”
Mr. Julius A. Nieuwland (Indiana).
“Sweet and Low”....................   .....Barnby
University Glee Club. ■ -	-	.
Oration of the Day	» .	' .
Right Reverend John Lancaster Spalding, D. D.,-
-Bishop of Peoria, Illinois.	'
Thursday, June 15', 8:30 A. M. .. < Washington Hall.
March.....................;.. ..Meyerbeer
University Orchestra.	_ \
-: - - - “ Home, Sweet Home.”
MR. W. M. GEOGHEGAN .1 f
-MR. F.
j. SCHILLO.

examination, the Minims betook themselves
MR. W. C. KEGLER,
MR. T. A..STEINER
" , • :	, •	r „ Class Poem..............Mr. James J; Trahey (Michigan):
to the woods and enjoyed the blessings of a Valedictory.. Mr. John F. Fennessey (Mass.) picnic. It was the occasion of the celebration Conferring of Degrees, Awarding of Honors.
616	' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC/
. {Continued from Page 6ogi)
■ makes wretched the homes of European peasants, vast armies dressed in shining uniform parade before their king to make a holiday. . The worker’s cry is lost in the sound of trampling feet of cavalry, and the burden to ' support. these armies lies heavily upon the
poor. Not so in our country;: for the armies roll in ’65.are passing now, and each year the
labor in the fields, the workshops and the schools.	.
Where in history can be found-a civil war ' more terrible than our own. From the Mississippi to the Ocean, from Maryland to Atlanta, the shriek of bursting shells reverberated. The waving columns marched bare-breasted to the cannon’s mouth. Unterrified they heard the bullets fall about them. Hunger and privation
did not decrease their ardor. No thought Of
- peace was entertained until the national flag diction is carried on the evening air, the pale floated again from the capital of every state light of the candles flitters through the stained-
that formed the Union.
The price the soldiers paid for victory was great, for when Gettysburg and Chattanooga gave up their dead a nation wept at the havoc war had wrought. For every man that fell in battle a home was desolated. Five years of war had wasted fields which in other years were . rich with harvests. A debt accrued upon the - country that required a, decade to remove. “ When peace returned the mighty armies melted and long neglected labors were resumed. Many of the homes to which the soldiers of < the civil war returned were'darkened with the pall. of sorrow, for perhaps a father’s, or a - brother’s chair was vacant. In some a young wife sat, and conjured up again a face of one - that left ho heritage -but glory td: his infant child. Out of the lives of these young men that fought were taken the fruitful years, of ' -youthful vigor. . Companions of their ^boyhood slept in death;?’.but' silently they bore their sorrow and. set • their .faces toward-the, world of strife. ';.	\\	C .
■„ '. The sight of mafching:meri was*Iaclirig;ffom. the memory of the .elders; to the younger ? generation it .was unknown; until-a =?year ago
A<itfie"\fl^	'
7 of filing columns broke the. quiet Of almost forty years. - The lads' that marched in ’98 had
X/heard of? war? from -=the lips of soldier fathers,;' I5; and the lines that swept the Cuban hills were 4 .^filled'alike' with men from North?apd^SputhA" /f. iThe blue arid gray united fought 'beneath; their:
country’s flag.	- --
IhSfiOni this\ mernori^^
Sp/dierj stfeWlwith Tipwersythe; new£madefgraye
and the nation’s tears Tor Fredericksburg	are	_
blended with her tears .for El Caney. The	sol-	-1
dier of the civil war- no longer walks with springing stride or form erect. His hair	has	-
whitened too, but in the hearts of men	the, . .
gratitude, is deeply set for the service he. has done. The men that answered to the muster
ranks close up as the veterans gather to per-. form their task of love in the silent cemetery. Among the group that assemble here to-day is. seen the black robe of religious. The badge open their breast betokens that they too were soldiers; their eyes beheld the slaughter of the . battlefield. Their hands.held firm the gun that pointed to the foe. How different is their vocation now! .
In the still night the solemn chant of Bene-
glass windows of the church, as with bowed heads these, soldiers, kneel" in prayer before God’s altar.	.	.	-
.In the little mound near by, marked with a simple cross, lies one that stood on the field ' of. Gettysburg,-, and while the shrapnel burst around, stretched but his: hands above the kneeling troops, and with uplifted voice pronounced the words of absolution.; Beside him lie companions whose .youth was given as ungrudgingly to country. .	’	.
. Gone!-r-their requiem is hushed; but their names upon the roll of honor proclaim that men may serve their God and serve their country. •/	. •
Theatre Belles
MICHAEL J. MCCORMACK. -
r \\Vith' meek dfologies‘to 'the author of, , f -f 'f	"
Thosel-theatre-b’enes! ’those theatre.belles!
■How.; nicely“they “ jolly ’’ theatre “ swells,”
TheirToiletsTwfe^	. i
Bnng^humble;suitbrs =fo ■ their'feet;.. ;
But tKebenedicVsighs =foh;fdfm .WBeifeveii-.bpnnetxbills; he;pays.-	- 'A.
Althdugh he speaks not. his manner.'telIs, Th'atJtls.j safer ltd_-shun,; the f theatre; bel 1
AricFsoVfwill be ’when"’she is dead, .;
:I£qr£he’s|lrad'feno^


