On the Cmpw—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
r	PAY	1/3 IN JULY...
'	PAY	1/3 IN AUGUST...
*	PAY	1/3 IN	SEPTEMBER...
«•	NO CARRYING CHARGE
THE CAMPUS SHOP IS READY FOR SPRING VACATION . . . WITH YOUR SOUTHERN-WEAR CLOTHES
BY PALM BEACH
Going south during spring vacation? The Campus Shop is ready with your cool resort-wear clothes by Palm Beach. Cool wash ’n wear suits and slacks that are perfect for travel . . . require little care . . . need never visit the cleaners because you can wash them yourself. . . . They’re ready to wear again in a jiffy . . . need little or no pressing. Come in soon and select the right clothes for all occasions. . . . Charge them the Campus Shop way.
PALM BEACH WASH 'N WEAR................... 39.95
PALM BEACH SLACKS, from.................... 9.95
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS, from.............. 29.95
^GILBERT'S
^c(^ampug^hop^
On the Campus—Notre Dame
On Campis Mx Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
EAT, DRINK AND BE MARRIED
On a recent tour of seventy million American colleges, I was struck by two outstanding facts: first, the great number of students who smoke Marlboro, and second, the great number of students who are married.
The first phenomenon—the vast multitude of Marlboro smokers—comes as no surprise for, as everyone knows, the college student is an enormously intelligent organism, and what could be more intelligent than to smoke Marlboro? After all, pleasure is what you smoke for and pleasure is what Marlboro delivers— pleasure in every puff of that good golden tobacco. If you think flavor went out when filters came in, try a Marlboro. Light up and see for yourself ... Or, if you like, don’t light up. Just take a Marlboro, unlighted, and puff a couple of times. Get that wonderful flavor? You bet you do! Even without lighting you can taste Marlboro’s excellent filter flavor recipe. Also you can make your package last practically forever.
No, I say, it was not the great number of Marlboro smokers that astounded me, it was the great number of married students. You may find this hard to believe but latest statistics show that at some coeducational colleges the proportion of married undergraduates runs as high as thirty percent! And, what is even more startling, fully one-
quarter of these marriages have been blessed with issue!
Here now is a figure to give you pause! Not that we don’t all love babies. Of course we do! Babies are pink and fetching rascals, given to winsome noises and droll expressions, and we all like nothing better than to rain kisses on their soft little skulls. But just the same, to the
* * *
And when baby is fast asleep—the little angel!—why don't you relax and give yourself a treat? With Marlboro—or if you like mildness but you don't like filters—with Philip Morris made in long size and regular by the sponsors of this column.
young campus couple who are parents for the first time the baby is likely to be a source of considerable worry. Therefore, let me devote today’s column to a few helpful hints on the care of babies.
First of all, we will take up the matter of diet. In the past, babies were raised largely on table scraps. This, however, was outlawed by the Smoot-Hawley Act, and today babies are fed a scientific formula consisting of dextrose, maltose, distilled water, evaporated milk and a twist of lemon peel.
After eating, the baby tends to grow sleepy. A lullaby is very useful to help it fall asleep. In case you don’t know any lullabies, make one up. This is not at all difficult. In a lullaby the words are unimportant since the baby doesn’t understand them anyhow. The important thing is the sound. All you have to do is string together a bunch of nonsense syllables, taking care that they make an agreeable sound. For example:
Go to sleep, my little infant, Goo-goo moo-moo poo-poo binfant.
Having fed and serenaded the baby, arrange it in the position for slumber. A baby sleeps best on its stomach so place it that way in its crib. Then to make sure it will not turn itself over during the night lay a soft but fairly heavy object on its back—another baby, for instance.
© 1960 Max Shulman
fapetotxMiOMd'
QUESTION
Editor:	■
As an avid reader of the Scholastic I was dismayed, upset, and downright rj unhappy to find that the collegiate hu- I mor of D. Jim Ausum and Chris Foley, in fact the entire “Escape” page, was I missing from this week’s issue.	|
I sincerely hope that the mail of re- I cent weeks, and especially the crass •” n commentary (I’m sorry, but according !| to my dictionary “crass” is the word || which best describes it) expressed in ? the February 26 “Repercussions” has ’’w not necessitated the dropping of this { most rewarding part of our Friday eve- | ning casual reading for fun and some | profit.	J
I could say that unless “Escape” is back again in next week’s issue I will *7i cancel my subscription. We all know | that such	a thing is impossible, so I	r 1
won’t say	it.	$
Joe	McBride	~i
205	Fisher	I
(ED: Last week’s “Escape” — and \ I this week's also — were unfortunately a “deleted” at the last minute.)
BOTH SIDES
Editor:
Dennis Shaul’s tiresome catalogue of vapid superlatives, “A Case for the Democrats,” [Scholastic, Feb. 19] is, “■ we Republicans can hope, a forecast of this year’s campaign. It should be easy to beat.
Mr. Shaul’s answer to the only dy- k namic personal diplomacy we’ve had since F.D.R. died: more guns. To deficit spending: more deficit spending. To billions of dollars of wasted farm subsidies: more subsidies and more regulations (we might try a giant commune * on the outskirts of Independence, Missouri). To education: more spending ■ (without pointing out how federal dol- 1 lars are to be kept from helping South- J era Democrats to finance their segre- I gated schools).	|
There is nothing new about bread and | circuses politics, and nothing progres- | sive in willing our debts to our grand- 1 children. We will have a balanced bud- f get this year because the voters want a L balanced budget. And the voters are ‘ ' very likely to remember, in November, ; where it came from.
Tom Shaffer
Apt. 1-A, Vetville
(Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic





if
■ A
v a
K




;'4
The Notre Dame
Vol. 101
No. 17 I 1
MARCH 4, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE .
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan William Sweeney
- William Veeder
sports editor and staff
THOMAS ROSE . William Cary
J. (Jay) Kilroy
copy editor and staff
WALTER RUDGE .
George Casey
Peter Geniesse
Thomas Marciniak .
art editor
JERRY FLORENT
photographer	.
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff \
ROBERT HORN
Thomas Carey .	.
Joseph Finnigan . , circulation manager.
LAWRENCE LEACH
moderator	-'-'T
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c
news reporters
Philip Larrabee ; John Ohala.
^Thomas Schlereth William Sparks. / sports reporters '	-
John Bechtold Jerry 2 Hewitt ?
_ G^rge'^yoris;^ Thomas Walsh
4
■?
5
4
i
,3
■1
■4



APATHY AND OIL: In recent days there have been numerous discussions and statements by certain student government leaders regarding the upcoming elections for next year’s student officials (see “Back Page”). The particular emphasis of these discussions is a determined effort to end one-man races, especially for student body president. One-man races are a detriment to good student government. In the past such one-man shows have been the cause of student body apathy, and in the most recent case this apathy has pervaded student government itself. In this year's fall elections not only were some offices uncontested, some remained vacant. In an unopposed race the candidate need not campaign; he does not even have to present his ideas to the electorate. Instead he is busy lining up next year’s government. If student government leaders are going to proffer their case to the students as a whole, if they are going to provide a raison d'etre for their function on campus, then it must be in the form of an election campaign. Otherwise the formality of a student-wide election is not necessary.	.
If there is to be a contested election, then the question is — how shall it be conducted? Already attempts are being made in some quarters to discredit the so-called “sinister well-oiled machine” which corruptly dominates the present setup. This is hardly what one would call forthright campaigning. If at this time such a “machine” does exist then perhaps it is a result of disinterest among the students, some student government functionaries, and even prospective leaders. If a strongly-knit organization is the only way in which the present system can be efficiently run, then perhaps it is a necessary evil. The only way it can be eliminated is through an evolutionary process whereby more interest can be engendered in student government through better candidates fighting elections on ideas, if not issues. The situation we have now has proved to be unsuccessful; the time for action has come.
AN HONORED SON: This past week the campus has mourned the death of Joe Boland, nationally respected and admired sportscaster and a man, naturally associated with Norte Dame football. Aftei- having contributed greatly to the advancement of the University by spreading her name as a coach and founder of the “Irish Football Network,” Mr. Boland passed away suddenly from a heart attack only a few days ago. The Scholastic extends its most sincere sympathies to Mr. Boland’s family and mourns with the rest of the nation the loss of one of Notre Dame’s most beloved graduates.
STANDING IN THE COLD: At the annual Mardi Gras Ball last Friday night the “privileged” few who could attend the dance had some rude shocks waiting for them, indeed. It was a cold, windy night with below freezing temperatures and those who walked across campus to the New Dining Hall had only one thought in mind: to get inside. But what awaited them? A thirty-minute delay in a line which extended almost the full length of Farley Hall. With snow in their hair and ice underfoot, it was bad enough for the fellows in line but the girls who were lightly clothed in their ball dresses must have found it extremely uncomfortable. The reason for the wait: the Mardi Gras Dance committee apparently could not foresee that when 1,000 persons try to get through a very small door and then check their coats immediately inside, a little congestion might result. We wonder if they noticed that there are at least three other doors to the dining hall? But that was not enough. After missing a half-hour already, the ball goers were forced to endure at least 25 additional minutes of nothing while the various members of the Mardi Gras committee congratulated themselves on the fine job they had done. For it all, the dance suffered immensely.
A STUDENT VOICE?: The utter apathy and indecisiveness of this year’s student government (see “Apathy and Oil”) can be noted in its recent, last-minute attempts to set up a library committee. The Scholastic of Decembei- 11 carried a lead story and an editorial on the new library and mentioned at the time that a faculty committee had already been appointed to aid the administration and the architects in the planning and development of the new building. Yet it was over two full months later when it occurred to the student leaders that it might be a fine idea if a few student suggestions be incorporated also. So with less than two weeks remaining until the deadline for all such suggestions, student government has made a last-minute stab. At this late date it will be absolutely impossible for a representative poll to be taken and tabulated and the entire student body must now rely upon the suggestions to be made by the few on the committee. We certainly hope that somehow the committee will be able to salvage something of what might have proven to be a very successful idea.
—B. T. & T.
s
A
B0PHS0
EHnnaa BSPHEK 0HC3QC5
SHSSEHH □□□□Ed ES0EG3Q BBBBE
Contents
I
nsnfflssaQ bps ehbh aascm sane
At the Theaters
17
News Briefs
10
£

3
S

BQQ1HS
□ESBPH
nvi
H3I1K1EB
U3MSNVT0DX
KQDL
ACROSS
1. Breakfast-table eye catcher
7. Llama's cousin
13.	She sounds anti
14.	Mental process
15.	Naturally he’s gull-ible
16.	What to buy Kools by
17.	Gush, in a hurry
18.	Buys a car
19.	Shrunken continent
20.	Caniff’s Canyon
24. Raison d’____
26.	Latin wife
27.	Mr. K’s team
28.	It’s nothing
29.	Man with a burning desire
31. A Kool_____so refreshing
33. What Diamond Jim turned on in his sink?
36. Snake that’s almost a dance
41. Lacks a code
43.	Full of fun
44.	Names (Latin)
45.	Hand on hip, elbow out
46.	Builds
47.	Time for a change
DOWN
1.	Drains
2.	Gag man
3.	Leaves unprotected
4.	Roman road
22
26
Odds and Ends
Back Page
L. David Otte
9
Campus Scene
7
Our Cover
25
Commentary
5
4
Critical Horizons
13
Repercussions
Sports Picture
21
Feature of the Week
13
No. 6
15
27
29
33
41
G I960, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
K®1
>4 li
KROSSWORD
5.	What 2 Down may be (pl.)
6.	Half a pack of Kools
7.	It’s curvacious
8.	“Take me to your-------’
9.	Trim
10.	Thin Man’s dog
11.	What Menthol Magic is
12.	Blyth, Arbor, etc.
21.	As they say in N. Africa: “________.anyone?
22.	Start of existentialism
23.	-face (reversal of opinion)
24.	Period in ceramics
25.	Difficult to dig
30. Swimming
32.	Willie's shibboleth: “------- Kools!"
33.	Temple (archaic)
34.	What Latin lovers like
35.	“____up to the Menthol Magic of Kools”
37.	Tel----
38.	Little Miriam
39.	Little Barbara
40.	Plant that sounds like Cockney greeting
42._____Vegas
43.	Storage place for cookies
13
17
24
46
42
L	8	9	10	11	12
L					
L					
■	1				
!	34	37	38	39	40
					
r_					
L					
When your throat tells you its time for a c you need a real change..
YOU NEED THE
°KODL
6
The Scholast
N.D. DEBATE TOURNAMENT TO OPEN TODAY
Hosts Defend Crown
Against College Best
by ART GRAHAM
Notre Dame’s debate team, presided over by Gerald Goudreau, is pinning its hopes on two juniors, Guy Powers and Jay Whitney, in its Eighth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament this week end. They will be defending the crown that they won last year. Forty-two of the best debate teams in the counti-y are here to compete for ten awards to be presented to the winners.
The scene of this forensic activity is the LaFortune Student Center where today and tomorrow six preliminary rounds of elimination take place. Tomorrow afternoon the eight highest ranking teams enter the quarter-finals to decide the four semifinalists, in turn to decide the two teams who will compete for top honors of the tournament.
The week-end’s results. The winning team will receive permanent possession of the Richard D. Schiller Trophy, possession for one year of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation Traveling Trophy, and will have the name of their school engraved on the Rev. William A. Bolgei-Trophy which remains at Notre Dame.
To the runners-up, a second place trophy is donated by Eddie’s Restaurant, the third place trophy by William O. Brandenburg of the class of ’27, and
GERALD GOUDREAU
President of Debate Team
a fourth place trophy by the Studebaker-Packard Corporation.
Second, third and fourth place teams will also each receive a Notre Dame plaque. The top ranking individual speaker of the tournament will be presented with a personal desk calendar.
Besides the four military academies, many of the participating teams have outstanding records of their own in competition so far this year. Augustana College, Dartmouth College, the University of Kentucky and Northwestern University are but a few of the many fine teams that have won several tournaments this year.
Pros return. Past winners of the Notre Dame tourney have been Dartmouth College, the United States Military Academy, Wilkes College and Augustana College. Notre Dame has won it three out of the seven years it has been held.
The subject to be debated is, Resolved: “that Congress should be given the power to reverse decisions of the Supreme Court.”
Powers, of Forest Hills, N. Y., majoring in the General Program, and Whitney, of Burbank, Calif., a chemical engineering major, have been among the best Notre Dame debaters since their freshman year.
This season, they have won tournaments at the University of Kentucky and the University of Miami, and have placed second in tournaments at Purdue and St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia.
Powers is freshman debate coach at Notre Dame and plans a teaching career after finishing graduate school. Whitney is vice president of the debate team and a member of the Navy ROTC. He plans to enter law school after a four-year hitch with the Navy.
Busy days. Preliminary rounds will be completed Saturday morning. Following a luncheon in Morris Inn for all teams, the quarter-finals will be held at 1:30 p.m. in rooms 118 and 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall, the Law Auditorium and the Engineering Auditorium.
The semifinals will be held at 3 pan. in the Engineering and Law Auditoriums and the finals, at 4:30 pan., in the Engineering Auditorium.
In the past week, Notre Dame debaters have appeared on numerous news and interview shows over WNDU-TV, and WSBT, WJVA and WSND radio. The final round of the tournament will be broadcast by WSND at 4:30 pan. on Saturday.
General Chairman Joel Haggard will be assisted by Maurice O’Sullivan, banquet; Martin Gordon, facilities; Richard Meece, publicity; Charles Wasaff, registration; David Castaldi and William Beaver, timekeepers. Gerald L. Goudreau, debate team president, is also assisting in arrangements.	'
RICHARD D. SCHILLER TROPHY
Winners’ reward
Student Discussions Fill 6:30 Spot on Channel II
In line with its policy of providing a forum for serious, creative and critical thought, WSND’s Channel II will fill its 6:30 p.m. time slot during the coming week with student-conducted discussions and interviews.
Tonight Harold Monolip will review William Buckley’s latest book, Up From Liberalism, which has been variously hailed as a penetrating critique of present-day liberalism and damned as the ranting of a frustrated reactionary.
Sunday evening on “The Student’s Pen,” William Jungels will interview a student author and discuss his work with him. The following day’s program will find Bernard McElroy conducting a discussion of Freudian criticism in literature with a guest.
“Patterns in Thought” the following evening will present Bob Joyce and Charles Ladner who will initiate a series of six weekly discussions on the spirit of Thomism. On Wednesday Tom Musial will discuss the activity of the artist on “Forms of Art,” and Thursday’s program will feature an analysis of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony as performed by Leonard Bernstein by Jerry Kriegshau-ser.
Channel II is the recently inaugurated channel which the student radio, WSND, established to complement its original channel that programs popular shows and music. Channel II features classical music and other cultural and intellectual programs on a college level.
March 4, 1960
7
Mock Democrats Hold Delegation Meetings; Arrangements Set for April 3-5 Convention
Enthusiasm for the coming Democratic Mock Convention is beginning to crystallize and is expected to culminate in the same carnivallike spirit that prevailed at the 1956 Mock Convention which saw everything from smoky-room maneuvering to a bubble bath on the convention floor to boost interest in “Soapy” Williams.
The state delegations will hold their second meetings next week. Anyone who has not signed up for a delegation and wishes to represent the state of his residence should see Marty Roach in 4 Fisher before the coming meetings. He will then be eligible to represent his state if there is an opening.
Although the New York and Illinois delegations have already been filled, students from these states may attend the meeting of another state whose delegation may not be complete. In most cases, the less populous states in the South and West have many openings to which residents of other states may apply.
The delegation meetings for states alphabetically between Alabama and Minnesota will meet on Sunday, March 6; between Mississippi and Oregon on Monday, March 7; and between Pennsylvania and the Virgin Islands on Thursday, March 10.
Any other student wishing to represent a state other than his own may go to the state delegation of his choice. They will then be given vacant places if the residents of that state are not numerous enough to complete the delegation.
Where circumstances permit, chairmen and assistant chairmen of delega
SCENE FROM 1956 MOCK CONVENTION
Enthusiastic politician attempts to “clobber” opposition
tions will be selected at this next meeting. Anyone may run for office of chairman of a state delegation if he lives in that state and has paid his delegation fee. Attendance at the first meetings is not necessary to run for a chairmanship. Also, only residents of that state may vote for chairmen. State delegations not having enough residents to hold an election for chairman will have their cases decided individually.
Students may also serve as alternates if the delegation of their choice is already filled. In this capacity, there is approximately one alternate for every two delegates. These men attend the sessions of the convention and vote in the absence of delegates.
The Democratic Mock Convention to be held April 3-5 will very closely simulate the Democratic National Convention to be held in Los Angeles this summer. There will be 1521 delegates and approximately half that number of alternates who will be out to make this year’s political venture the most successful one of its kind in many years.
CAMPUS BRIDGE
The final round of the Gerity Campus Bridge Championship will be held this Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center. High scorers in the first session were Paul Donis-Paul Carpenter (North-South) .604; and Frank Christopher-Frank Ober-koetter (East-West) .582.
Bids Accepted for Infirmary By Holy Cross Community
Beginning this past Tuesday, bids on the construction of a new Community . Infirmary for the members of the Con- ' gregation of the Holy Cross of the Indi- , ana Province were accepted from various construction firms. The actual con- : « struction date is set for mid-April with -completion by 1961.
The Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., ' provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ : Indiana province, announced that the new building will be erected on the banks ’ 1 of St. Joseph’s Lake on the campus, ; just east of the new Moreau seminary 1 building.	;
Father Mehling said the infirmary, when fully equipped is expected to cost ; f about $1 million and will replace the old ,.i infirmary, which was formerly the no- f viciate for the Holy Cross Order.	।
Bush-button haven. The infirmary .. will house 55 priests and Brothers and will provide modern facilities for medical treatment of illness and injury. It will include hydro-therapy and physical ? . therapy treatment rooms, a solarium, : recreation areas, occupational therapy area and complete examination and “ diagnostic facilities. The building will have its own laundry, kitchen, dining ? facilities, chapel, administration offices" and housing accomodations for staff members. A convent annex will be ’ housed in one wing of the “Y” shaped . structure.	1
Plans for the new building were drawn up by Belli and Belli of Chicago and . call for the structure to be a two-story. affair patterned directly after the archi- - J tectural design of the Moreau Seminary. 2 Following the same type of brick-work, building materials and general over-all \ format as the seminary, the new build- ; ing will be constructed in perfect bal- < * ance with the other buildings on the j opposite side of the lake.	j
In addition to the 55 persons who j 4 will be housed in the hospital-like quar- J ters, the building will provide housing •§. for retired priests and Brothers. ¥
— Tom Schlereth & 5
SPRING ELECTIONS
The time of hearty hand-shaking j • and prolific propaganda is again ' approaching. Spring elections will | be held on March 31. Nominations 4 : will be accepted at the Student Government office in the LaFortune S ' Student Center from March 17 until 3 . 6 p.m. on March 27. Nomination forms can be procurred there any- ’ time. The elections will fill the of- 3
fices of the student body president, the president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer for each class, and the senators from each of the undergraduate colleges. Each nominated candidate must have a general 3.0 average in order to qualify. The Blue Circle Honor Society will supervise the balloting.



<4;
8
The Scholastic^
2. Otte
Schlereth Attends White House Conference; Freshman Represents Boys' Club of America
Acting as representative of the 500 Boys’ Clubs of America, Tom Schlereth will attend the 1960 “Golden Anniversary” White House Conference on Children and Youth to be held in Washington, D. C., March 27-April 2. Schlereth, a freshman enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, will be one of the official delegates of the Boys’ Clubs of America, Inc., who will pay all the expenses of his trip. Schlereth will also act as an alternate delegate to the Indiana delegation appointed by Governor Harold Handley.
The first such White House conference
$ p
4 -
* *
't
THOMAS SCHLERETH
Boys’ Clubs’ representative
i \
E
Campus Club Changes Name From Propeller to Commerce
Members of the Propeller club of Notre Dame suddenly discovered last month that they had become members of the International Commerce club of Notre Dame. At a recent meeting of the club it was decided that the name of the organization should be changed.
Despite the change the International Commerce club of Notre Dame will retain its affiliation with the Propeller club organization of which the University has been a member since 1938.
Other business at the meeting concerned the election of next year’s officers. Tom Ryan was elected president; Terry Hutton, vice president; Miguel Fernandez, treasurer and Pat Smyth, secretary. Joe Pietrus was selected as the club’s representative to the- Commerce Activities Council.
Included in the club’s activities is a trip to New York to survey the field of international trade. In the spring the club is planning to sponsor a lecture series.
___1- A
was called in 1908 by President Theodore Roosevelt. The purpose of the conference is to “promote opportunities for children and youth to realize their full potential for a creative life in freedom and dignity.” Representatives from all professions entailing direct contact with children and young people will be in attendance at the affair, which will consist of general sessions of all delegates and workshops of smaller discussion groups. At the gathering, Schlereth will study all the factors that influence the individual child — his family, his church, education, health and community life in the light of his Boys’ Club experience. He has been a member of the Sarah Hein house in Pittsburgh, Pa., for the last six years.
He gets around. Schlereth, who received an official invitation from President Eisenhower to attend the conference, has been well prepared for his part in the meetings by being a member of a National Committee of the Boys’ Clubs of America, addressing their national convention two years ago on similar topics and by being selected as the “Boy of the Year” in 1957 and 1959. He has attended several national committee meetings in the last three years, and has been invited to attend the national convention in New York City this May.
Here at school, Schlereth has compiled a Dean’s List average for his first semester, is a delegate to the Pennsylvania delegation to the mock convention and a news reporter on the Scholastic. Also a member of the Knights of Columbus Council here on campus, he is the editor of the Stanford Hall newspaper and a member of the publicity committee for the coming Freshman Formal. He hopes to major in either history or English.
Fr. Dunne Opens Services With 'Existentialism' Talk
Rev. John Dunne, C.S.C., opened the annual Leo XIII Lecture Series yesterday with his talk on “Christian Existentialism.” Succeeding lectures, held every Thursday evening during lent, will feature other members of the Notre Dame faculty.
Next week’s speakei- will be Prof. Matthew Fitzsimmons, Ph.D., who will talk on “The Rise of Africa.” Other professors include Prof. William D’Antonio, “The Population Explosion”; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., “The Laity Comes of Age”; and Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., “Christian Art.”
The lenten lecture series is intended to supplement the formal religion curriculum of the University by relating Christian theology and philosophy to current problems in the social order. It is also hoped that the students may better know their professors by seeing them outside of the atmosphere of the class.
WEI, mostly
A Tuesday evening 14-9 vote by the Senate struck another blow for good old patriotism. The group in effect put their okay on the disclaimer affidavit and loyalty oath sections of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 (NDEA) by voting down a motion to request the removal of these sections. But it took a while to come to this
conclusion.
Usually, the debate on this nationally controversial subject was sound and intelligent. But not always. There was some illogic, irrelevance, verbosity, semantics, hair-splitting, and re-hashing of the hash.
Regardless of their stand, the debaters had trouble getting together on the rationale of the motion they were considering. “Encourage” was ' substituted for “support,” but eventually a 15-9 vote cut a whole section from the motion because no one liked the reasons. There were more than two dozen contributions made to the argument, half of them under ar. imposed two-minute
rule.
SBP result opinion
Babbitt said he hoped that the of the vote reflected student and suggested that more non
campus issues like this be raised. He stressed how this issue had been publicized through WSND, the Scholastic, the Student Forum, the national magazines, etc. The Freshmen senators overcame their timidity and came alive at the meeting, but they had constituents who had put some thought to it, and cared. It was less so with the rest of the school apparently.
The NFCCS and Scheckler were there again. Additions to the bylaws of the constitution were made concerning national affiliations, their delegates, and duties. Nothing new really, but now official.
Cavanaugh Hall’s Powers tried to change an election qualification. Instead of the 3.0 general average now-needed, he wanted a 3.0 foi' the two semesters preceding elections only. This would be a boost to those who had trouble early in their Notre Dame career. The Senate couldn’t see this, and it clearly failed.
Social Commissioner Christin gave a report on recent and coming activities. International Commissioner Ladner discussed progress on the FSLP speaking tour to the halls. Veep Naughton drummed a bit on Project Guidance, a commendable proposal, and reminded the Senate of the doings of the Collegiate Jazz Festival people.
Pre-election politics are becoming increasingly evident. Votes count.
Blue Circle Interviews 'Redgling' Candidates; Shaul Organizing Leadership Training Period
News Briefs
The Blue Circle Honor Society has been busy rejuvenating one project and developing two others. At present they are in the midst of interviewing applicants for membership into the Blue Circle. This will be continued throughout the months of March, and then the final selections will be made.
Senior member, Denny Shaul, from Akron, Ohio, is organizing the annual leadership training week end for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s freshmen and sophomores. The focal point this year will be placed on the position which extracurricular activities have in the life of a student. Discussions and lectures will be presented on how a student may preserve his academic purpose of college, and yet, build leadership through social, civic, and scholastic activities.
The spiritual commission, previously a Student Senate group, now has a committee in the Circle headed by Jim O’Rourke, an A.B. junior from Milwaukee, Wis. This committee will work with Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C. in organizing new projects and ideas to get more students involved in religious activities. It will be the task of this committee to increase participation in religious functions. The Blue Circle will also be the headquarters for each of the hall spiritual commissions.
Recently the Senate has voted “Help Week” to the Blue Circle. Each spring about 200 Notre Dame and St. Mary’s
Campus Station Changes Daily Program Schedule
In the past few weeks, Notre Dame’s radio station, WSND, has instigated several program changes. While retaining their ban on rock and roll music, the station will feature more popular music from the nation-wide popularity charts.
For weekday afternoon listening, Ray Trance and Tim Ryan alternate on the "Swing Shift” program from 1-3 p.m.
From 8-11 pan. in the evening, the popular “Night Beat” show looms from the O’Shaughnessy Hall tower. This program is divided into three parts. For the first hour, Dick Ciccone presents the request portion, while Jack Can- MC’s the 9-11 pan. interlude. The first half is devoted to popular music, while the final broadcasting hour is devoted to modern jazz.
Sunday sees two. changes in the WSND programing schedule. From 1-3 in the afternoon "Sunday on Record,” with Bob Findlay and Tom Twardowski, presents an all-around variety of music. To conclude the recent changes, "Edi- -tor’s Notebook,” under the direction of Joe Geary, endows the campus with discussions on various topics of current interest.	-
10
students are organized to perform prespring duties at the charitable institutions of South Bend. By raking leaves, washing windows and doing whatever else which may be necessary, it is hoped to cement a good relationship between South Bend and the University. John Burns and Tom Ryan will be this year’s cochairmen of the “week.”
Again this year, the Blue Circle will organize and conduct the spring elections which will be coming up shortly. As in the past, also, they will lead tours of various groups around our campus.
Summer Jobs Offered By Placement Bureau
Summer- employment for Notre Dame students is available again this year through the placement bureau. While job oppoi-tunities are available in both technical and non-technical areas, there are many more openings in the engineering and science lines than in the fields of commerce or liberal arts.
These jobs are open to any student, be he freshman or senior, but there is a greater- demand for the older and more experienced student. The placement bureau’s services are, of necessity, geared primarily to company needs. The companies inform the bureau of the qualifications which they desire in their employees.
Foreign work is difficult to obtain since there are so few foreign enterprises in the Midwest. The best contacts for ocean ships jobs are directly at the ports.
Although there is little demand for summer camp jobs, there ai-e many openings in this field. National Park ■ Service also falls into this category.
A list of the companies offering employment may be found on any of the bulletin boards on campus. Additional companies are constantly sending in information to the bureau.
If a student is interested in working for a firm not on the list, the placement bureau will aid him in obtaining information about this firm.
The greatest opportunity for summer work is between New York and Chicago. Also, there, are many openings in the heavily industrialized Northeastern part of the country.
There is a slight decrease in jobs this year, possibly due to the steel strike and the fact that this is a presidential election year. Many openings are available, though, and anyone interested should see Herbert Bott in room 118 of the Main Building. The office is open Monday through Thursday from 2 to 5 p.m.
The work of the placement bureau on undergraduate summer employment will terminate at the end of March, so prompt action is necessary.
.— Bill Sparks
“The Spirit of Thomism” will be the topic of a six-week discussion series on WSND’s Channel II. The series will begin on Tuesday, March 8 at 6:30 p.m. with a consideration of the spirit of Thomism in itself. The discussions of the five following Tuesdays will deal with St. Thomas’ thought concerning art, psychology, ethics and politics.
Activity will be running high across the Dixie this week end as St. Mary’s College presents a varied program of cultural entertainment. Of major interest will be the performance of the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra conducted by Antal Dorati. The performance will be held tonight at 8:15 in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
Tomorrow night at 8:15 in O’Laughlin Auditorium Hal Holbrook will present his one-man show of “Mark Twain Tonight.” Completing the week end will be the performance of the Moreau String Quartet at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre on Sunday night.
Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., Education Department head, will be participating in a panel discussion held in conjunction with the 11th annual institute of the Women’s Council for Human Relations on March 15 in Sinai Synagogue, South Bend.
The Women’s Council for Human Relations is composed of representatives from Catholic, Jewish and Protestant women’s organizations in St. Joseph County. It’s purpose is to promote understanding among people of various racial, religious and national backgrounds, and to seek means to eliminate injustices and to establish harmonious human relationships among all peoples.
Miss Bertha Sheppard Adkins, undersecretary of health, education and welfare in Washington, D. C., will give the principal address and will also lead the discussion in which Father Walsh is to participate. Father Walsh is head of the University’s department of education.
The University, of Southern California ■ has announced its 1960 contest in colloid ; and surface chemistry open to all students of chemistry, biochemistry and chemical ! engineering who are regular undergraduates i cm April 1, 1960 at any accredited college | or university in the country.
Contestants may enter either a report on a research project conducted by themselves or an essay on the subject, “The Importance of the Ultracentrifuge in Colloid 4 Chemistry.” Prizes of $500, $200 and $501 will be awarded for tile best essays and | the best reports. Contest closes July 1,1 1960 and entry Hanks are available fromq Professor K. J. Mysels, Chemistry Depart-^ ment, University of Southern California,|| Los . Angeles 7, California.	fl
The Scholastics
JOB OPPORTUNITIES! A General Motors representative will be on campus March 15,16,17. Contact your college placement office to arrange an interview.
Getting beneath the surface of things...
Through a newly developed X-ray diffraction technique that examines stress-induced changes in the spacing between atoms, General Motors Research physicists are now able to determine residual stresses below the surface of hardened steel in 25% of the time previously required.
Room to grow should be your most basic requirement in seeking a position. This is where General Motors offers you an exceptional advantage. Depending upon your own capabilities and enthusiasm, you will find virtually limitless opportunity to move within a single GM division or to other divisions or to a staff activity.
Fields of work at General Motors vary from astronautics to automobiles, household appliances to rocket propulsion, inertial guidance to isotope research—to mention a few.
General Motors offers financial assistance to employees who wish to enter or progress in postgraduate studies. And undergraduates may gain from work experience in the summer employment program.
Before you make your final employment decision, ask your placement officer about General Motors, or write to General Motors, Salaried Personnel Placement, Personnel Staff, Detroit 2, Michigan.
GENERAL MOTORS
GM positions now available in these fields for men holding Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctor’s degrees: Mechanical, Electrical, Industrial, Metallurgical, Chemical, Aeronautical and Ceramic Engineering • Mathematics • Industrial Design • Physics • Chemistry • Engineering Mechanics • Business Administration and Related Fields.
March 4, 1960
12
' Highlighting the year-long debate season is this | * week’s national invitational tournament. Jerry jv Goudreau fills in the historical background of J the Notre Dame Debate Team, the sponsor of P this tournament.
j‘ GROWTH INTO TODAY
i ¥ NTERCOLLEGIATE debating began at Notre Dame when V a team in 1899 met Butler University in Indianapolis. The .( next sixty-one years saw debate grow as an extracurricular 1 activity, increasing in both activity and prestige to the posi-;. tion that it holds today. Last year, Notre Dame and Butler - met again on the sixtieth anniversary of that first meet.
Where today the major aspect of the team’s activity is in intercollegiate tournaments, in the early days of debate, all activity was on the campus on an interhall basis. Teams were organized differently, too. Instead of one campus debate team, ' Sorin, Brownson, Corby, and Holy Cross halls each had its own team. These men would come together and engage in t an interhall tournament much as today in basketball, handball, or football.
These first intercollegiate debates were meets and not tournaments. Only two schools were involved in the debates, the host and the visitors. One team * of three men would travel to another y school and debate the team of that • school on either the affirmative or the ] i negative side of the question. Modern style debate is different. Two debaters make up a team, and most of the debates take place in tournaments where numerous schools compete among each other in several successive rounds of debate. And now, i	teams must be prepared to present
both the affirmative and negative side
:	of the question.
Notre Dame won that first debate ? with Butler and continued on until by 1912 they had won 19 matches and j	lost one. This was a rather formid-
4	.	able record for a small school in the
' Midwest, since the competition includ-£ ed such teams as Iowa, Ohio State, > and Georgetown, the oldest debating A group in the United States.
5	The Rev. William A. Bolger, *	C.S.C., distinguished himself in the
a collegiate debating sphere in these | early years of forensic activity. He | served as debate coach from 1910 until
t 1928 and kept Notre Dame rising in the field of debate. Under | the direction of Father Bolger, the interhall teams were molded into the first university-wide debate team.
During this period the scope of debate began to widen, t The duration of the debate season up to that time lasted only I three or four weeks. Now the season begins from the time ®that the debaters are notified of the topic in August until even jX after the West Point Nationals in May.
Is. ' In 1927, Notre Dame debated the University of Sydney, | Australia, in Washington Hall for the first international exhibition. The following year- Father Bolger was succeeded as
| director of forensics by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., a former outstanding debater and professor of economics. Father Boland served as coach until 1933.
After Father Boland and until the interruption of debate by World War II, Prof. William J. Coyne was at the helm
of the team. As an undergraduate, Professor Coyne had been the first winner of the Dome award, and was also the first student president of the Wranglers.
With the end of the war the control of the debate team came into the hands of Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, who has directed the team for the last 15 years. Under his management debate at Notre Dame has undergone a tremendous expansion. Recognized by the University for its contribution to Notre Dame’s academic reputation, the Notre Dame Debate team began to earn a respected place in national intercollegiate debate circles. Its success is attested to by close to 100 trophies and plaques that pack the trophy case in the forensics room of the Student Center.
From 1899 until 1912 Notre Dame had participated in only 20 meets. Now teams compete in that many tournaments in one year, besides engaging in numerous exhibition debates.
For the past several years Notre Dame has debated the University of Pittsburgh in a series of exhibition debates before high school and civic audiences in the Pittsburgh area.
Last year the team inaugurated a debate team sponsored weekly discussion program over WSND, entitled “Controversy.” On this program, Notre Dame debaters interview members of the faculty and other distinguished guests, and discuss varied political, economic, and social issues of concern to the college students. The William P. Breen Oratory Contest, which is held each year, is also sponsored by the debate team. Finally, Notre Dame is a member of Tau Kappa Alpha.
This year the team has already participated in 15 intercollegiate debate tournaments, in which they have won four first places, three second places and several individual speaker awards. The fruits of these victories are eleven trophies, one placque and many certificates of distinction. Notre Dame won the tournaments held by the University of Kentucky, the
University of Illinois at Chicago, and the University of Miami, and defeated Marquette University in an individual meet. Second place ratings were secured at Purdue University, St. Joseph’s College in Philadelphia, and St. Mary’s College. A first place in extemporaneous speaking was won at Texas Christian University.
All during the year the team presents exhibition debates and discussions before numerous business and civic groups in the South Bend area.
Ahead on circuit are tournaments at Georgetown University, Marquette University, Xavier University, and the National Midwest Regional Elimination to be held this year at Notre Dame. Qualification at this event will send the team to the West Point National Invitational Debate Tournament in April.
March 4, 1960
13
HARRY was drunk by the time the third race was over.
He leaned clumsily against the bar, mumbling to himself, “Numba three and numba four. . . numba three and numba four. . .” Finally he stood himself upright and pawed two yellow tickets from somewhere inside his suitcoat. Bleary-eyed, he stared at them for a while, running his fingers through his uncombed red hair, and then looked up at the results board on the far wall.
•‘Numba eight and numba ten.” He waved his arnj and the tickets floated to the floor. “Give me a scotch.”
The bartender poured another scotch. Harry downed it and turned around to watch the crowd milling past him.
“Hey Harry!” From out of the general press another well-dressed young man appeared and joined Harry at the bar. “Harry, where’ve you been? Lordy, you’re a sight. Bar-tender, give me a beer.”
“Hallo, Sam.”
“We’ve been looking all over for you, Harry.”
“Oh, I bet on tha’ numba three horse an’ she come in last. Sam, I haven’t made any money today, you know tha’? I haven’t made a cent.”
Sam swallowed some beer. “Yeah, but you’re feeling pretty good.”
“Oh Sam, I don’ feel good at all. I feel awful — I don’ know why.”
“Lay off the booze for a while. C’mon.” Sam took Harry by the arm. “Let’s go over where Bill and the rest are, Harry. You’ll feel better.”
“Aw no. You go ahead. How soon ’ll the nex’ race be, huh?”
“You’ve got half an hour before the next race, Harry; c’mon.” He added, “You’re going to get drunk.”
Harry started to grin lopsidedly. “I’m not gonna get drunk. You go ahead, an’ you tell Bill that the horse that’s gonna win this one is numba five. You tell Bill I’m gonna make a pile of money on numba five. An’, Sam — let go my arm.”
Sam released his arm. “C’mon Harry.”
“Naw, I’m gonna stay here an’ watch the people go by. Some of these people are drunk, did you know that Sam?”
“Oh Gawd,” said Sam. “Well, you just lay off the booze for a while. I’ll be where Bill is, by the stairs. Come and find us by the next race.”
“I’ll be there — in a little while. When’s the nex’ race, Sam?”
“I told you. You’ve got half an hour!” Sam slipped off into the crowd again, shaking his head.
* * *
HARRY sbifted his weight back against the bar and turned his head from side to side, slowly scanning the chaotic throng. People stood around, or walked aimlessly, or chatted and laughed in groups and drank beer, or ate hot dogs. Some
14
walked hurriedly back and forth — some came from the outside, perspiring, and shoved through the crowd to the ticket * windows — some meandered through the doors out onto the concrete grandstand porch, and then back again. Some shouted, some laughed; no sound was totally distinguishable; all was a meaningless roar.	.
Harry’s gaze rested and refocused in turn upon a Negro ! man with one shoe half tom away, a bored, well-dressed lady in a fur piece, a raucous program hawker, and a young boy in uniform, carrying a long-handled pan and broom. Some- ' thing in the features of the boy startled Harry; perhaps it was the eyes — of course Harry was drunk. He decided to watch the boy for a while. The boy circled slowly through the crowd, sweeping up bits of the floor’s litter where he could; his patternless motion brought him close to Harry. It appeared to Harry to be a futile business; the supply of chaos was much greater than one young boy’s demand. Harry was intrigued with the problem momentarily. “Hey boy, how’s business, pickin’ up?” He tilted his head back and laughed loudly. The boy ignored him and turned to go empty his pan.	i
“Hey boy, how’d you like to go an’ get me a sandwich. •<> Here’s a dollar — keep the change.” He extended a dollar bill towards the boy.
“Sure, Mac.” The pan and broom clattered against the bar, and the boy, seizing the bill, trotted off into the swirling crowd.
“Yes sir,” said Harry to himself. A smug smile spread across his face.	;
The boy returned a few minutes later with a roast beef sandwich.	'
“An’ I thank you, boy.” Harry drew another bill from his ‘ pocket. “This is for you too.”
“Thanks, Mac!”	I
“’s all right. But you’re gonna have to earn that, you know? You’re gonna have to stay here awhile and keep me company. I wanna tell you ’bout my wife.”
The boy grimaced. “Now look, Mac, don’t get funny.”
“Oh. . . ’s all right. Take it ’n get. Go ahead.” Harry scowled at him. The boy pocketed the bill, retrieved his pan and broom, and started off through the crowd again.
“My wife is dead,” called Harry after him. The boy dis- p appeared. Harry sighed, looked at the sandwich, and set it on the bar top behind him. “Yes sir,” he said sadly. He began to search through the fringe of the crowd again. A man with a Racing Form stepped out of the press and ordered a beer. . Harry turned to him. “When’s the nex’ race start?”	-
“Twenty minutes,” said the man absently; he scanned the * Form and drank long draughts of beer at the same time. .
4
Waiting foi the Ne^ By Michael Cumming
“What’m gonna do until the nex’ race starts, huh?” | The man looked up at him with a start. “Mac, watch out I for people with cigarettes, you’ll go up like a torch! Ha ha!” | He folded the Form under his arm and walked off into the crowd. Harry watched him go.	j
“Wise guy,” he mumbled. “Oh Gawd, what ’m I gonna | do until the nex’ race starts?” he asked the world in general. I “Answer me tha’,” he said, looking up, “What’m I gonna do?” He turned to the bartender. “Gimme a. . .gimme a beer.” f
The bartender poured a beer. “Drink that slow, Mac, or | you’ll make yourself sick.”	g
“Oh. . . you can’t tell me how to drink m’ beer.” Harry
The Scholastic B
K t I?


f-

r

i 4

1
took a long drink and set the cup down on the counter. “Look here,” he said, “what’m I supposed to do until the nex’ race starts, huh? When is the nex’ race?”
“You got twenny minutes, Mac. You better go for your tickets. Go ahead and get in line.”
Harry leaned across the counter and stared into the bartender’s face. “Now what good do you thin’ it’ll do me to buy my tickets now when I got twenny minutes to wait for the nex’ race? What good will it do right now?” He emphasized the last two words.”
The bartender turned away and began to polish some glasses. “Now don’t give us any trouble, Mac,” he said over his shoulder.
Harry turned away and sighed again. “Aw no, I won’ give anybody any trouble. Not me.” Harry stared morosely at his shoes for a few seconds, then picked up the beer and the sandwich. He swayed a little as he stepped slowly away from the bar into the crowd.
He passed a small group of Negro men and ladies standing by a pillar, talking and laughing and drinking beer; one was the man with one shoe half torn away. Watching them, Harry jostled a man who was standing stock still in the middle of the floor, staring intently at the odds board.
“I’m sorry,” Harry said. The man didn’t say anything, he just continued to stare at the odds board. Harry stopped and looked at him for half a minute. “Did I tell you Phyllis died?” Harry asked. The man didn’t turn his eyes away from the always shifting numbers. Harry laughed for no apparent reason and continued on his way through the crowd.
He passed a slightly tipsy young lady who was trying to put a beer cup to the lips of the infant she held in one arm. He turned back and stood before the woman. She looked up at him, smiling slightly, and he said, “Lady, you shouldn’ do that.”
“Why shouldn’ I do tha’? Do wha’?”
Harry considered the matter for a while. The lady looked at him expectantly. Harry finally said, “You better drink it yourself. You got twenty minutes before the nex’ race.”
“He’s my baby.”
“My wife died,” said Harry.
“He’s my baby.” * * *
HARRY turned from her and pushed on through the crowd.
He came to a man who repeatedly swept the crowd with a hard gaze, back and forth, searchingly. The man was in a corner of the building, half hidden in the shadows where the light from the great overhead globes didn’t penetrate. Harry stopped to stand next to him and mimicked the man’s neverending surveillance of the always shifting throng. After a few minutes, Harry grew tired of the game and asked the man, “What’re you
k Race
*
6
looking for?”
“M ove along, Mac.”
“W h a t ’ s a matter?”
“Just move along.”
“How soon ’til the nex’ race starts?” The man shifted his stance and continued to sweep his gaze silently over


the masses. “All right,” said Harry, “all right.” Hany moved slowly back into the people, a quizzical expression on his face. He accosted a short man and asked him “How long ’til the nex’ race?” The little man looked up at him; he spat on the floor and scurried away. “I’ll be,” said Hany surprisedly.
Finally he stopped next to a trash barrel and looked around to see if he couldn’t find the stairs. His eyes lighted upon the boy with the pan and broom again. “ ’Member me?” he called.
The boy came up to him and emptied his pan into the barrel. “Sure, Mac.”
“I didn’t tell you my wife died, did I?”
March 4, 1960
The boy tossed his pan and broom against a nearby pillar and leaned on the trash barrel. “Can’t you stand somewheres else, Mac?”
“She did,” said Harry. “She died. Jus’ like tha’.” He tried to snap his fingers. “Jus’ a year ago, and she didn’ even tell me she was goin’. How about that.”
Another boy with pan and broom had come up. “What’s with him?” asked the second boy of the first.
“Says his wife died. He’s pretty far gone. Gave me a dollar for nothing.”
The second boy surveyed Harry carefully. “He won’t stand up much longer. Somebody’ll roll him anyhow.”
“I’m all right,” protested Harry.
The two boys turned away from him and began to talk about something else. Harry sighed and stared at his shoes. Abruptly he turned around and started to address the pillar. “She was the mos’ beautiful girl that ever was, an’. . . she love me, an* I love her. . . an’. . . well. . . she died! She did. When’s the nex’ race start?” Neither the pillar nor anyone else replied. Harry nodded courteously and weaved his way back into the crowd. Quite by accident he finally found his way to the stairs where Sam, Bill, and a few other well-dressed young men were standing.
“Here he is,” said Bill. “Here he is, fellas. Lord, Harry, you’re drunk.”
“I’m not drunk.”
“Yes you are. Look at him, fellas. Not even the fourth race and Harry’s drunk.”	.
The rest of the fellows laughed; Sam, who looked a little older than anyone else in the group, took Harry by the arm and let him lean against the wall. “Take it easy, Harry. I told you to lay off the stuff,” he said in a low voice.
Hany stared at him. “She did, Sam.” He took another drink of the beer he still canied. “Sam, when’s the nex’ race?” “Bugle’s going to blow any minute now. You want me to make a bet for you? You just stand here and I’ll go make your bet. What horse?”
“Yeah, yeah,” said Harry. “You go put some money on numba five for me. Here.” He began to look around for a place to set his sandwich down.
“Number five was scratched, Hany. What was the next horse you wanted?”
“Here,” said Harry. He gave his friend the sandwich and began to dig in his pocket with the free hand. “Here, you put ten dollars on numba five for me, huh?”
“Harry, number five was scratched! Number five isn’t going to run, you understand? Nobody’s going to bet on number five.”
“Now don’ get excited,” Hany said. He pulled some bills from his pocket and shoved them at Sam. “I don’ care if nobody else is gonna bet on numba five; I’m gonna bet on numba five. If nobody else bets on numba five then I’m gonna win a lot of money, Sam. Here.”
“Harry, bet on some other horse!”
By this time all the other fellows had fallen silent and were listening to Harry. Bill said, “Bet on number three, Harry.” And somebody else said, “Bet on nine.” Harry turned his eyes from face to face. “You can’t bet on number five, Harry.” Just then the first bugle blew.
“Oh leave him alone,” said Bill. “He’s drunk.”
“I’m not drunk,” replied Harry a little testily.
“Yes you are.” Sam patted Harry on the shoulder and gave him back his sandwich. The other fellows went back to talking among themselves, and Harry stood against the wall, staring bleakly. “What ’m I gonna do until the nex’ race?” he mumbled. “They won’ let me bet on numba five.” He pocketed the sandwich, drained the beer cup, and fell to staring moodily at his shoes again.
* ♦ *
SEVERAL minutes later another bugle was blown. The activity at the ticket windows grew more intense. The crowd began to move slowly towards the doors. Harry’s group began to break up.
“C’mon Sam, let’s go outside.”
Sam started to walk away with the fellows, but turned and came back to Harry. “C’mon Harry.” He took his arm. “Let’s go outside and see the race.”
“Sam, I haven’t got any horse in this race, did you know (Continued on page 18)
15
CAMPUS REBS
by Bill Hanley
IT IS relatively certain that Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson, the 19-56 Texas favorite son, will be the 1960 favorite son of the South. Johnson comes from a prominent Texas family and one steeped in the traditions of the South. He can claim ancestors who wore gray in the Civil War, shot squirrel rifles in the Mexican War, signed the Declaration of Independence and served repeatedly in the Texas legislature. But aside from family tradition he has many personal achievements which recommend him as a 1960 candidate.
Johnson is experienced in campaigning (especially in winning). He was elected to the House six consecutive times from 1937-1946. At the conclusion of his term in 1948 he defeated ex-governor Coke Stevenson in a Senate run-off primary by 87 votes in over a million cast, and was elected to the Senate in the following November by a 2-1 margin. In 1951 he became party whip and in 1953 party floor leader (at 44 the youngest ever to hold that position). In 1955 he suffered a serious heart attack, but recovered in time to resume his duties as Senate Majority Leader. At present he is sei-ving on the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee and as chairman of the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Com-
LOYALTY OATH
mittee.
Voting-wise, Johnson followed suit when Roosevelt dealt the New Deal and Truman, the Fair Deal. Under Eisenhower he has tried to compromise administration policies with those of opposing Democrats — all much to the consternation of party conservatives. He has sided with the oil interests of Texas and advocates expanded military power, public housing, welfare, and foreign aid. He has opposed the entire Benson farm program and has frequently criticised Eisenhower’s defense and space programs.
A leading national magazine suiwey indicated that Johnson will be closely rivaling Kennedy on the first ballot at the national convention. Johnson’s only victory can be an early victory and at this time it does not appear that the Democrats want to play “follow the Majority Leader.”
Leading the Senate Majority Leader’s campus campaign is another energetic Southerner, William Markwell of Henderson, Kentucky, a freshman in the Commerce School, a member of the Irish Guard and the Notre Dame Band, and a nephew of the former dean of the Notre Dame Law School, Clarence Manion (with whom Markwell is now living).
Markwell gained valuable campaign
TWO CONSTITUTIONS
by Denny Shaul
case. Third, Ward said, even if it were wise, it ought to be repealed because of the divisive effects this provision causes within society and more especially within the academic community.
Mr. Bozell, the Washington correspondent of the National Review, began by saying that he considered all federal aid to education an evil, and stated that he hoped the whole bill would be repealed. He then started what he hoped would 'be a step by step rebuttal of Ward’s case. Where Ward had been temperate and scholarly, Bozell was clever and scattershot. He implied that Ward’s arguments were those of people soft on Communists, later called one of his arguments “softheaded,” labeled another an “absurdity,” called the question of academic freedom “a hoax to begin with.” Bozell’s sound and fury may have left some of his audience limp with adulation, others with blood pressure aboil, but it is safe to say that it added nothing original or sensible on the question.
At one point Mr. Bozell went so far as to blame American universities for some of the spread of Communism. Throughout his attitude was distinctly anti-intellectual — a fear of education, of men like Goheen and Griswold, of (Continued on page 19)
The Scholastic
ing experience as chairman of his hometown Young Democrats for Bert Combs organization. During the spring gubernatorial primaries he conducted rallies in Henderson and attended others in various parts of Kentucky.
Markwell’s first contact to enlist aid for the Johnson cause was through Kentucky’s former governor’ and ex-senator, Earle C. Clements, who is a personal friend of Johnson and the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. In the interest of procuring a speaker and advice for a proposed preconvention rally, Markwell has also visited Indiana Senator R. Vance Hartke.
The organizational work on campus has been somewhat handicapped by Markwell’s living off-campus, however he has two willing on-campus campaigners, junior Timothy Sullivan and senior Rivers A. Patout III. Sullivan has started the organization ball rolling for a local Johnson for President Club. (Anyone interested in this project can contact Sullivan in 207 Badin.) Patout, a distinguished Texan of local renown and an enthusiastic Johnsonite, has secured the backing of the Texas Club and has advised Markwell on advancing the Johnson cause.
For our mock convention Markwell hopes to win a solid South for the senator from Texas. Regarding Johnson’s qualifications as a candidate Markwell says, “It is my opinion that the most qualified man in public life to be president of our great United States is Lyndon B. Johnson. Johnson’s experience is broad. There has been no major policy decision in the last decade concerning the military, foreign affairs or atomic energy without Johnson’s participation in that decision. He is the only Democrat who can make that claim. Make no mistake, Johnson is the man to be reckoned with.”
*
PROBABLY no one who went to the debate on the Loyalty oath and affidavit provision of the National Defense and Education Act came away with his opinion changed. The audience was small to begin with and often one had the feeling that here were two men who weren’t living in the same world or century. There were few direct clashes, and both participants showed a great eagerness to jump to the larger question of federal aid to schools
Professor Ward of the Notre Dame Law School spoke against the affidavit and loyalty oath. He prefaced his remarks by saying that he did not approve of schools eliminating themselves from the program — even if they felt strongly about the oath. His belief was that all students should have access to the money.
There were three main arguments advanced by Ward, all of which are really utilitarian. First, the object of the provision is unwise — those who are Communists, or who are not sure of what they are, are the very people most in need of education.
Second, Ward argued that even if the provision were wise, it still should be repealed because it is so poorly worded that the Supreme Court would probably strike it down in a test
16
AT THE THEATER/
Now that the Mardi Gras and its accompanying horde of young ladies is a thing of the past, and all of us have fallen back into the old rut, you might need some entertainment.
This week the Avon is showing a double bill of movies filmed on shoestring budgets. Strangely enough, it seems the cheaper the movies are to produce the more they gross. This does not involve the quality of the finished product. Such are Room and, of all things, The Beatniks.
As an interlude between Once More, With Feeling and Porgy and Bess, the Colfax is showing this week (Mar. 4-10) Jack the Ripper. This is no movie to sneeze at, but whatever else you can do to it is beyond me. The story is well known to fanatical readers of True Detective. It centers around the many unsolved murders which plagued 1880 London, when a mysterious man did away with several “women of the night” with the aid of some sort of surgical instrument. In real life, the murderer was never found, but in the movie a kind of grim justice takes over when the apparent murderer is trapped at the bottom of an elevator shaft and promptly squashed by the elevator. You can almost hear the bones crack and, though the movie is in black and white, the blood squirting through the floor planks is a vivid red somewhat reminiscent of concentrated tomato soup. Your stomach is bound to turn. This final scene presents a threat to the popcorn concession.
At the Granada, Solomon and Sheba starts its second and final week. Yul Brynner, equipped with a wig badly in need of a haircut, plays a Solomon who broods more often than not. The only wise comment he makes “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity,” has never before, to my knowledge, been attributed to him. But it has no place in the movie anyway, so no real harm is done. Gina Lollobrigida appears naturally as the fabulous Queen of Sheba, who divides her time between wanting Solomon at her feet and scolding him for not doing so. Miss Lollobrigida definitely has some physical assets, and they are prominent in the movie. But if she also has acting talent, it’s nowhere to be seen. Generally speaking, that’s a heck of a way to spend some spare millions.
What would happen if a nuclear war should start tomorrow? The late Nevil Shute had some ideas about it, and he put them down in a morbid book entitled On the Beach. It has now been made into a movie (State: Mar. 3-16) starling Gregory Peck, Ava Gardner, Tony Perkins, and Fred Astaire. This is Astaire’s first dramatic role and, for a 63-year-old song and dance man, he does pretty well in the part of a physicist who is appalled at how men have destroyed themselves. Peck is a sub commander who was underwater when the havoc started and, because his sub is a nuclear one, was able to escape submerged to Australia. There he finds Tony Perkins as a young British naval officer and Ava Gardner with as many shady pasts as she can handle. The movie starts where the bombs left off, and there is a cloud of fatal radioactive dust spreading throughout the entire globe. Australia, because it’s so far from other continents, has not yet been reached, but its day will come. So the doomed people make the best of what little time they have left and the Salvation Army makes a pathetic appearance. Expert trick shots of completely deserted San Francisco and a traffic-jammed Golden Gate Bridge heighten the effect of total obliteration of human life. At the end of the movie, everything is deathly still and the only statement left by man is a Salvation Army banner which prophetically reads: “There is still time, brother.”
On this happy note, I leave you until next week.
—Tony Wong
KEATS
on Life Savers:
“Why not
live sweetly?”
from TRcUooe, line 10
Diplomacy in a Changing World
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination, diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world.
Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, Hans Morganthau, Jacques de Bourbon-Busset, Raymond J. Sontag, and Philip E. Mosely are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume. ~
$7.50
On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers
March 4, 1960
17
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS
GLASSES FITTED
1QUIHS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
212 S. Michigan
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
It’s easy to flick off your mistakes on Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Make a pass with a pencil eraser and typing errors are gone—like magic—no error evidence left. Corrasable has an exceptional surface—erases without a trace. Once does it—there’s no need to
retype. Saves time; money, too. The perfect paper for perfection—erasable Corrasable.
CE 4-4874
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
Eaton's Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy weights and onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A . Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eatonname,
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION fjgj PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
**»»»•
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Next Race
(Continued from page 15) that?” Sam propelled him through the crowd. The sunlight outside was nearly blinding. Harry tried to shield his eyes from the glare but it didn’t do much good. “Sam, Ie’s go back.”
“Sit here, Harry.” Sam pushed him down onto a bench. Harry bent over and put his head into his hands. Sam and the rest of the fellows stood up on the benches to see over the heads of those in front.
“Harry, aren’t you going to watch the
“’s all right,” he mumbled. “What good’s it gonna do me to watch the race when my horse isn’ in it?”
Bill laughed. “I never saw a guy get funnier drunk than Harry.”
Harry heard a bell ring and the sound of hooves. He didn’t look up. For half a minute the noise of the crowd neither abated nor rose. Then it began to swell; in a few seconds many thousands of people were shouting. The crowd danced and yelled, cursed, screamed, cried out and laughed uproariously, fell down and jumped up. The sound of hooves again became audible — then the noise of the crowd broke, but for a few brief screams and shouts, and the roar quickly subsided to its usual pitch. People began to move soberly back through the doorways.
“C’mon Harry, the race is over.”
Harry let them pull him to his feet and guide him back into the building. He was quite passive. Sam pushed him gently up against a girder and Harry grasped the steel flange with one hand.
“Sam? Sam, you know it’s funny. All these people. They stan’ for hours.” Hany stopped and sighed. “For hours, Sam. An’ then for jus’ a few seconds of kicks in the whole day. An’ then it’s all over an’ they stan’ around some more. Jus’ for a few seconds of kicks. An’ poor old Harry. . .” Harry’s voice quavered. “Hany don’ even get the kicks.”
“Listen, Harry, you stand right here. Don’t wander off, you understand?” Sam looked around but the other fellows had gone off. “I’m going to get you some coffee. I’ll be back in a few minutes.”
Harry gulped and tried to compose himself. .“Sure, Sam. I won’ go ’way.”
Sam stepped close to him and took him by the lapel. “Harry it’s a hell of a thing that you should get so drunk!”
“’m sony.” Sam strode away.
Hany remained on his feet for a minute longer. Then he slowly slid down the girder until he plopped to the floor. His head fell back against the steel, his eyes closed, his face relaxed. He was awakened by a foot. He looked up slowly to find the man with the hard eyes and a policeman bending over him. The man with the hard eyes poked him again and said to his companion, “Another one.”
The policeman caught Harry under the arms and jerked him to his feet. He looked at the man with the hard eyes ruefully and drawled, “Fourth one today.” Getting worse out here all the time.” The policeman began to push Harry through the crowd as the other
4

18
The Scholastic
man turned and walked off.
“Where ’m goin’?”
“Just keep going, buddy.”
“Say, did I tell you ’bout my wife?” r The policeman didn’t reply. “She died.” As they passed through the crowd, Harry saw the little group of Negroes and the man with one shoe half torn away in line before a ticket window, laughing and chatting and drinking beer. “Oh Gawd,” said Harry suddenly. “Oh Gawd — what ’m I ever gonna do until the ) nex’ race?” He turned to look earnestly into the policeman’s face. “What does anybody do before the nex’ race?” The policeman led him away.
The	SCRIBE*
is the Ball Point made to write best on PAPER!
Two Constitutions
*•	(Continued from page 16)
schools like Harvard and Yale. The question of internal security seemed to cause him much concern, and his attitude was reminiscent of the heyday of McCarthyism when Communists were to be found under every bush.
Mr. Bozell’s strangest views are undoubtedly centered about the Constitution. In the end his position reduced to a stated belief that state constitutions take precedence over the Federal Constitution, and that the final arbiter of the Constitution is the individual himself. This leaves us with purely anarchy and nothing less. One also has to wonder about the state Mr. Bozell is so eager to protect. He speaks of “the government saying to the people,” or “the government withholding from the people.” But if this is a democracy, and the government is the people, who then, is withholding what from whom? Is it this state — Mr. Bozell’s state — we want to
4 protect?
Mr. Ward’s arguments were original v and well-presented. Some of them did not hold up. It is too bad that more time k was not given to the Constitutional aspect of the question. The affidavit explicitly requires a statement of belief; this is in clear conflict with the First ’' Amendment.
In the end the debate turned on the old question of freedom versus security. But if a state demonstrates a fear of one of her greatest institutions — the university— and if in seeking to protect the Constitution, she perverts it, how can she long endure?
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Here is a piece of paper. Clip it out and try this test: write on it with an	and all
other ball point pens, and by golly you’ll see what we mean.
SCRIBE $1.69
J - •- \
March 4, 1960
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
Golden Ages of the Theatre MacGowan
•
Four Metaphysical Poets Bennett
•
50 Poems
E. E. Cummings
•
On Art & Connoisseurship Friedlander
•
Intro, to the History of the Science of Politics
Pollock
•
Sociology & Psychology of Communism Monnerot
•
Of True Religion
St. Augustine
•
New Testament Knox trans.
* •
Origins of the Medieval World Bark
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
•
Special Price $5.50 .----------------_____
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
campus character:
BLACKSTONE
TORT
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more absorbent, smoother fitting, too.
To look your best, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now! COOPER'S INCORPORATED • KENOSHA. WIS.
A.
tyockeu ® BRAND briefs

20
The Scholastic

IC4A-Bound Wilsonmen Capture Second in CCC
After placing second in the Central Collegiate Conference championships last week, the Notre Dame track squad will compete in the IC4A championships in New York tomorrow.
Western Michigan University, the team hosting last week’s meet at Kalamazoo, also kept the first place trophy, as the Broncos superior depth paid off for a 92-point total.
Runner-up at 72 points was Notre Dame, followed by Central Michigan with 25, Marquette with 14, Loyola and Detroit with 7 each and Drake at 3.
The Irish took just as many blue ribbons as WMU, but couldn’t pick up the necessary other points to actually challenge the Broncos, who had all three men placing in six events.
Distance ace Ron Gregory paced the
TOM REICHERT
'	Wins CCC pole vault
Notre Dame spikemen with a double vic* tory, winning the mile with a 4:11.9 clocking, a new WMU Fieldhouse record, and then coming back to take the 880 in 1:56.
? Another big man for the Irish was vaulter Tom Reichert, who achieved a ‘ personal record and a first place with a 14 ft. 2% in. vault. Reichert barely 7 missed 14-6, the bar finally falling as he stepped out of the pit.
Junior Jerry Fitzpatrick was the highest individual scorer for Notre Dame as i'l he won the broad jump with a 23 ft., 4 in. leap, placed second in the 60-yard ' dash at :06.3 and took third in the 300-yard dash with a :31.4 clocking.
Another high scorer for the Irish was J Jim Sheeler, who took first in the 60-■ yard high hurdles at :07.6, and then won ; second in the low hurdles. Dick Monjeau won a first in the high jump—6'%".
OHIO U. TESTS IRISH NEXT TUESDAY IN FIRST NCAA GAME AT LEXINGTON
Ohio University will be the opponent of the Jordanmen next Tuesday when the two NCAA aspirants meet in the opening game of the Mideast regional playoff at Lexington, Ky. The Irish, who finished their regular season with a 7664 win over Creighton in the Fieldhouse, will carry a 17-8 mark into the tournament. If the Irish get by the Mid-American champ, they will meet Southeastern Conference titlist Georgia Tech on Friday, March 11. The team winning this game will then play in the championship contest the following night, most probably drawing Big Ten powerhouse Ohio State as their foe.
The winner of this game will be the Mideast regional champ and will advance to the final round of four at the Cow Palace in San Francisco March 18 and 19. From the Cow Palace will come the 1960 kingpin of college basketball.
Mid-American champ. Ohio University won the Mid-American crown with a sparkling 10-2 record, having been beaten by Miami of Ohio and Toledo, both of these losses coming on the road. However, Ohio avenged the losses in meetings on their home court. The Ohioans and the Irish have met four common opponents. Indiana, conqueror of Ohio State last Monday at Bloomington, beat Ohio 80-68 at Bloomington, while the Irish fell victim to the Hoosiers in the final game of the Hoosier Classic 71-60. While the Irish have polished off DePaul twice by 73-70 and 70-58 scores, respectively, the Blue Demons defeated Ohio, 77-54. Both teams were overcome by Illinois, the Irish bowing 71-67 and Ohio losing 85-79. Notre Dame beat St. Francis 75-56 and Ohio also whipped the Frankies by a 82-79 count.
Coach Jim Snyder has done a fine rebuilding job for the Bobcats. Third in their conference last year, the Ohio squad was vastly improved in winning the title this winter. Howie Joliff, Bunk Adams and Larry Kruger are the Bobcat aces. All three Bobcats are averaging close to 16 points a game, indicative of a balanced attack. Joliff is the center, the other two control the forward posts. Joliff gives the Bobcats top-flight rebounding with his 19 rebounds a game. In the loss to Miami, Joliff was limited to 13 retrieves as the Bobcats were outrebounded 53-44 by the Indians, one of the few times this season that the Bobcats have placed second in that department. Joliff should get stiff competition under the boards from Irish Captain Mike Graney.
The Bobcats get good floor generalship
from guards Bill Whaley and Dale Bandy. They account for about 18 points each game.
Team totals show the Bobcats shooting 43% from the field to their opponents’ 40%. Free throwing has not been the Bobcats’ trump card as they have hit only 60% from the line while their opponents have been slightly better at 67%. The Ohioans have averaged 81 points a game to 75 for the opposition and have outrebounded their foes by about' 12 rebounds a game. The Bobcats have been called for 390 personal fouls.
The Irish emerged victorious in their last two regular season encounters in
CHICAGO STADIUM ACTION Graney evades Louisville defender
compiling a 17-8 ledger. On Tuesday, Feb. 23, Evansville surprised the Irish with a 92-87 triumph on the Aces home arena. John Dearie was high for the Irish with 19 points.
Old reliable. Last Saturday in Chicago Stadium Louisville was defeated 65-54. Dearie again led the pack with 18 tallies and old reliable Emmett McCarthy chipped in 16.
In their final home appearance of the season last Monday, the Irish whipped Creighton 76-64 in a loosely-played affair. Dearie with 19, McCarthy and Eddie Schnurr with 16 and Captain Mike Graney with 13 were Irishmen in double figures. Seniors Bob Bradtke, Mickey (Hawk) Bekelja, Bob Skrzycki, Don McGann plus McCarthy and Graney, made their final home appearance a happy one.
March 4, 1960
21
ODDS and ENDS
Pro quarterbacks do not necessarily agree on how the game should be played. Johnny Unitas of the Baltimore Colts feels that “if a play doesn’t work, you can’t call it back; its over and done with.” But then there’s Bobby Layne of the Steelers who says that it is the quarterback’s duty to enumerate the mistakes and then “bless out” the players who committed them. All goes to show that the same job can be handled capably with different attitudes . . .
Carol Heiss, the Miss America of this year’s Winter Olympics, pointed out that all she wants to do now is go home, rest and have a good time. However Mayor Robert Wagner of New York has a different idea. It seems that Bob has offered Carol a “ticker-tape” parade when she returns to New York. Ah, the price of glory! Rumors say that Carol has been dating Hayes Jenkins quite a bit. He is the brother of David Jenkins who won the Men’s Figure Skating crown just recently. Hayes w'on that same title in 1956 . . .
No one can say that the Auburn basketball team needs glasses. Not only do the Tigers lead the nation in field goal percentage but they also have the top free throw average. If they should go on to win both titles, it will be the first time in the history of college basketball . . .
The Major League baseball clubs have already made their annual trip southward for spring training. However, many notables such as Minnie Minosco have not signed their contracts. Yet, this doesn’t seem to bother the general managers who draw up the contracts. Hank Greenberg of the White Sox stated that there is something overpowering in that Florida sunshine that Brings the players to their senses and from then on the signing is just a formality. Good luck, Hank! . . .
Spring Sailing
. . . Can spring be far behind? The Notre Dame Sailing Club announces that the annual series of Sailing Seminars will be held on four consecutive Thursday evenings, March 10, 17, 24 and 31. These will be from 7:30 to 8:30 in Nieuwland Science Hall.
The Seminars, as usual, will be divided into three sections for those who want to learn to sail starting from the waterline up, those who wish to learn how to race and those who, knowing something of racing, want to learn more about tactics.
These sessions will be taught by some of tiie best skippers on the Midwest intercollegiate racing circuit. This is attested to by the trophies now on display in the Student Center. The Irish sailed to three firsts and two seconds in seven regattas last season.
GENE WITCHGER
Junior captain returns in ’61
Swimmers1 Successful Year Ends at North Central Today
Today the Irish swim team ends their most successful season since they entered varsity competition. They face North Central College at Naperville, Ill. North Central is very strong this year. One of their swimmers is the Pan-American champion in the 800-yard freestyle. Four Irish seniors will end their collegiate careers with this meet: Paul Chestnut, Jim Carroll, Gene Jordan and Dick Dunn.
A week ago last Wednesday the Irish tankers, led by junior Bill Cronin, who set a pair of records, beat Loyola 55-41. Cronin swam the 100-yard freestyle in 52.8 seconds and the 220-yard freestyle in 2:19.2 for his varsity marks. He also anchored the winning 400-yard fi’eestyle relay team of Gene Witchger, Joe Meany and Chris Lund for a time of 3:38.6.
In the 50-yard freestyle Witchger and Frank Dinger finished one and two respectively. Tony Haske won the 200-yard butterfly. Jim Carroll finished first and Paul Chestnut second in the diving.
Last Saturday the Irish trounced Pitt, 66-29 and three records were set. Ray Stefani beat his old mark in the 440-yard freestyle with a time of 5:11.3; the 400-yard medley team, consisting of Jim Grever, Dave Witchger, Haske and Gene Witchger, established a new varsity mark of 4:11.1; and the 400-yard freestyle relay team of Gene Witchger, Lund, Dinger and Cronin set both a pool and varsity record with a time of 3:35.6.
Cronin, a record breaker against Loyola last week, won his specialties again, the 100-yard and 200-yard freestyle. In the 200-yard butterfly Haske finished first with Dunn second. As usual, Chestnut and Carroll came in first and second respectively in the diving. In the 200-yard breaststroke it was Joe Bracco followed by Steve Sauer with a winning time of 2:43.5 for the Irish.
Roommates Bring Zahm Interhall Cinder Crown
A team composed of two roommates j from Zahm won the All-campus Interhall Track Meet for their hall. Dennis ,, Cooney and Richai’d Coffin, both from St. Louis, Mo., won four of the eleven events held on February 24.	|
The versatile Cooney won the 60-yard | dash, 440-yard dash and the mile run. | His roommate, Coffin, won the 220-yard dash.	|
Breen-Phillips finished second with 4 the help of key wins by George O’Meara I in the broad jump, and Al Leineweder in the 110-yard dash.	|
Keenan took the 440-yard relay title, | while Alumni won the 880-yard relay | crown.
Other individual winners were Jim Loula of St. Edwards in the shot put, | Stanford’s Frank Froelke in the high h jump and Toni Saluto of Alumni in the 60-yard low hurdles.
Mike Morando, supervisor of the meet, pointed out the lack of interest in interhall sports by the fact that it took only two men to win the meet for their hall. He hopes more will come out for the < Interhall Wrestling Tournament which started on Tuesday and continues 4 through tomorrow. Both of these meets count for points toward the President’s Cup.
There are two divisions in the wres- h tling, tournament, novice and open. The novice group will be for boys with no y previous experience. The open division is for freshmen wrestlers and those with 4 previous experience in high school.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Cincinnati over Drake.
California over Stanford.
Ohio State over Minnesota. St. Bonaventure over Canisius. Bradley over St. Louis.
Villanova over LaSalle. Illinois over Northwestern.	s-,
Kentucky over Pittsburgh.	j
Dayton over DePaul.	i
Indiana over Michigan State.	’
Manhattan over Fordham.
Kansas State over Nebraska.
N’1 Wisconsin over .Purdue.
Detroit over Bowling Green.	'
Duquesne over St. Francis.	■
Iowa over Michigan.
Utah State over Denver.
Southern California over UCLA.
F1 Seattle over Gonzaga.
Holy Cross over Colgate.
LAST WEEK 15 right, five wrong, 75 per cent.
TOTALS TO DATE
97 right, 21 wrong, 82.2 per cent.
The Scholastic j
22
Panozzo's Record 288 Sets Classic Standard
Denny Panozzo, a membei- of Notre Dame’s Intercollegiate team, blasted a record 288 game in the Classic league by stringing ten straight strikes to set a new high game record for the Notre Dame Bowling Lanes. Denny converted a 3-10 split in the first frame and left another split standing on his last ball. His big game brought a series of 661 on games of 186-288-187.
The Notre Dame Intercollegiate team took on league leading DePaul last Sunday and emerged a 7-4 victor, losing two games by a total of twelve pins. This was a very important match in the Intercollegiate league, and the loss of two games by such a slim margin will put the pressure on the Domers as they now trail DePaul by twelve points, having played one less match than DePaul.
There are rumors around campus that the campus Barbers and the Padres will meet to do mortal battle on the
Notre Dame Lanes this Sunday afternoon. The strength of the Barbers’ team is as yet unknown to your reporter, but on the basis of past per-* formances by the Padres, I predict that the Barbers will receive a good clipping.
CLASSIC LEAGUE
*	Pabst Blue Ribbons ............ 48-20
Brunswick Shop ................ 45-23
Denny Panozzo, 186-288-187—661;
>	Ted Nekic, 198-178-209—585; Tom
Schroeder, 239; Jim Flannery, 220; Paul Scagliarini, 209.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 185; Dan Halloran, 185.
4 KAMPUS KEGLERS—RED
I*	Rochester Club................ 40-20
|	Beatniks ..................... 40-20
L Barry Merrill, 174-184-188—546; B.
|	Howard, 299-142-167—538; Don Dvorak,
I 215; J. Lindner, 211.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—BLUE i	Detroit	Club “A” ...... 40-16
J	AIChE	...................... 38-18
I	Pat	Heenan, 179-188-215—582; P.
k	Reilly,	203-181-183—567;	D.	O’Donag-
hue, 206; P. Ryan, 204; J. Quinlan, 204.
Wash., Md. and Va. Club rolled 971-1106-963—3040.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—YELLOW
Lucky Strikes........... 45 -15
> Shady Grove .............. 40%-19%
Emmett Sharkey, 201-193-171—565;
Frank Araneta, 182-198-156—536; Jack McKenna, 210; Ron Zlotnik, 206.
7
KAMPUS KEGLERS—GREEN
Five Jokers................ 35%-20%
. Five Splits .............. 31 -25
I Jim Lewis, 179-184-168—531; D. Akers, 171-180-167—518; Don Yim, 182; L. Felteau, 202.
—Ed Silliman
j March 4, 1960
ND Wrestlers Succumb To Wildcats and Miami
Notre Dame’s mat team was tripped twice this past week as its season rapidly nears an end. Their record now stands at 4-5. At Evanston on Wednesday, February 24, the Irish were thumped 28-5 by the powei-ful North-westein team; and Miami of Ohio pulled out a 16-12 decision last Saturday at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. In the 123-pound class Captain Jerry Sachsel was held to a draw by Joel Crabtree of Northwestern but came back to decision Miami’s Dave Wetherwill.
The 130-pound division wasn’t as successful. Tom Wonders of Northwestern pinned Dick Nielsen and Miami’s Fred Scott tacked a defeat on junior Nielsen’s record.
At 137 pounds Tim Runnette of Northwestern beat Carmen Belafonte, but Belafonte bounced back with a victory over Rich Fleming of Miami.
Notre Dame’s 147-pound representative, Dick Sapp, split in his two matches, losing to Northwestern’s Don Millican and whipping Miami’s Guy Furth.
The 157-pound Irish soph, John Chur-netski, lost decisions to the Wildcats’ Jon Sampson and Miami’s Bob Bright.
Gene McFadden, 167-pounder, ran smack into two fine opponents and was pinned twice. Art Craft did the honors at Evanston, while Dave Kaiser wound up on top at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Junior Jim Kane at 177 pounds was the only Notre Dame grappler to cop both of his matches. Jim racked up victories against the Wildcats’ Ed Pris-sner and Miami’s Joe Kerner.
Heavyweight Jim Brunette was beaten in both his outings, losing to Rory Weber of Northwestern and being pinned by Joe Golat in the decisive match of the Miami meet.
Seniors Jerry Sachsel, Dick Sapp and Gene McFadden made their last collegiate appearance at home against Miami.
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOWI

ND Fencers Boast 14-2 Mark With 1960 Season Completed
Coach Walter Langford’s Notre Dame fencing team finished the year with a 14-2 mark, splitting a triangular meet with Wisconsin and Illinois last Saturday.
In losing to the Illini, the Irish foil team had its worst day of the season, being on the short end of a 7-2 score. All-American Jim Russomano’s three losses in this weapon came as a surprise to Notre Dame. The final score of the Illinois meet was 16-11.
The Irish fared somewhat better against Wisconsin’s Badgers, defeating them 15-12. Notre Dame captured the foil and epee by scores of 7-2 and 5-4 respectively. Wisconsin won the sabre with a 6-3 margin.
The foilsmen now face a month of inactivity as they await the NCAA championships April 1-2 at Champaign.
“Variety is the spice of life,** Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Cbickeo
Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
PERSONS desiring to give news stories to the SCHOLASTIC should bring them to the news editor at the SCHOLASTIC office on Sunday or Monday evenings. At other times bring them to Roy Rubeli, 42 Pangborn.
SPECIAL OFFER...
FbrZHeaded
Pipe Collectors
Genuine imported hand-carved cherrywood pipe... that really smokes!
This unique two-headed pipe is a real conversation piece__a must for your collection! Hand-carved in the Italian Alps and finished in gay colors. Stands alone on its own tiny legs. Ideal for your desk, mantle, or bookshelf ... mighty good smoking, too! A real value shipped direct to you from Italy. Send for your two-headed pipe today!
Clip Coupon..
STH TV AVT
Shown Appoximately % Actual Size
Please send me prepaid_________ 2-headed pipe(s). Enclosed is $1 (no stamps, please) and the picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from the box in which the pouch is packed for each pipe ordered.
Choice Kentucky Burley-Extra Aged!
Smells grand! Packs right! Smokes sweet! Can’t bite!
Sir Walter Raleigh
Box 303
Louisville 1, Kentucky
----------
MailToday! }
NAME___________________________________________________________
ADDRESS________________________________________________________
CITY_________________________ZONE______STATE__________________
COLLEGE________________________________________________________
This offer good only in U.SA. Not valid in states where prohibited,taxed, or otherwise restricted. Offer expires June 30, 1960. Allow four weeks for delivery.
ALL MATTERS pertaining to subscriptions and circulation are handled in the business manager’s office located at the University Press in the basement of Stanford Hall. Phone number is 416.
and picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from new pouch pack
Only S]OQ

NOW
Sir Walter Raleigh in the new pouch pack keeps tobacco 44% fresher!
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
Editor:
In reference to Mr. Monahan’s letter [Scholastic, February 26], I feel that I should add a few facts. Mr. Monahan asks whether Admiral Burke’s word should be taken over the word of Ike’s defense experts. Had he checked his “facts,” Mr. Monahan would have discovered that Admiral Burke is Head of Naval Operations, certainly one of Ike’s experts. He would also find that Ike is at variance with two more of his own experts: General Power of SAC, and Aid Force Chief-of-Staff White.
Citing U.S. News and World Report hardly challenges my facts. A Decem-bei* issue of that same magazine makes quite clear our very real danger in an article on nuclear blackmail. That article expressed grave concern over the missile gap. Time of February 8, calls Ike’s defense budget skimpy, and is quite critical of our state of defense. The New York Times of February 14, presents a clear picture of our lack of preparedness. Mr. Monahan asks whether our farm policy isn’t in fact legislative. Had he checked the facts he would know it was ratified by a Republican Congress.
I appreciate Mr. Monahan’s interest in my article. However the next time he speaks of “fact,” he would do well to check his own.
Dennis Shaul


323 Walsh
THE LAST WORD?
Editor:
It seems to me that the young ladies at Saint Mary’s of the Lake should be striving to attain a sense of social grace which would compliment the dignity that is womanhood, instead of making vain attempts at sarcasm which reveal a great lack of maturity and propriety.
Paul A. O’Bryan -a 344 Lyons
MORE LICENSE
Editor:
Throw up the barricades. Let all J paunchy “intellectuals” don their musty, | red cockades. There will be street fight- s4| ing in Washington. Or so Mr. Wells 9 [“Back Page,” Scholastic, Feb. 26] I would lead one to believe.	I
Since at some point in his young life he has obviously been jarred by the lit- 1 erature on the French Revolution, I can -j only suggest that he scotch his Carlyle I and concentrate upon history. And J while our “reputed monarchist” is groveling in the imperfectability of man and dodging imminent “inundations of social legislation,” let him wrench himself from the eighteenth century and at least refrain from giving further " manifestation of the sterility which is conservative thought — a phenomenon * repeatedly apparent on this campus of late.
William J. Donnelly
254 Alumni
24
The Scholastic
The SCHOLASTIC would like to take this opportunity to take note of the following birthdays this month: Andrew Jackson, the 15th, James Madison, the 16th and spring, on the 20th. Congratulations!
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Butova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
OUR COVER: In keeping with this week’s important event, the Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament, sophomore architecture student Dick Gemperle has adorned the cover of the SCHOLASTIC with the Debate Trophy Eagle, which traditionally makes its roost in the Forensic Room on the main floor of the Student Center. The Debate tournament, which hosts forty-two teams from many parts of the country, will be held today and tomorrow, March 4 and 5, in the Student Center.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING, YOUTH WORK farming, clerical work done by B r o t h p r s are in great need today m the U S and foreign missions
SCHOLASTIC office hours are Sunday and Monday nights from 7:30 to 11:15. Deadline for material is the Sunday night preceding each issue date. At times other than office hourse see the departmental editors in their rooms.
WHMMfSS anvoEnm
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!) Border Lakes Outfitting KO. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
►
►
For information and literature write: BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best

when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO okia
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
by SHULTON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 4, 1960
25
Back Paqe
student government?—nonsense
I
by WILLIAM SCHECKLER
This week's “Back Page" is zvritten by William Scheckler, a pre-med strident from Kenosha, TF?s. The executive vicepresident of NFCCS, he is also a stay senator and served last year as the Senate’s treasurer.
In this article Scheckler discusses the reasons for the current apathetic attitude found in the student body and in the student government, and he attempts to point out some of the main causes of it.
T'HIS “Back Page” won’t wander into the realm of presenting panaceas for world problems or even requiems for dead poets, so don’t be frightened off. The author of the following, after serving three years in the Student Senate and in other phases of student government and after blustering three years through campus elections — sometimes successfully, sometimes not so successfully, offers some thoughts for your consideration.
March 31 will mark the date of this spring’s election for class officers, college senators, and student body president. As a senior, your author doesn’t have any personal political axes to grind; he can’t even vote in the elections. Thus this essay is meant merely to inform and to point up a few problems or “nonsenses” which will face the freshmen, sophomores and juniors on election day. If the facts as presented and interpreted cause a few people to squirm—fine.
ONLY OPPORTUNITY
On April 17, 1959, a couple of characters named “S. & S.” had this to say in the Scholastic “Commentary”:
If student government is to progress and if it is to fulfill its ideal as a representative body, it must make better use of the one opportunity afforded it each year to take its case to the electorate and to take from the electorate confidence and new ideas. At the present time the Senate, which is the principal organ of student government and which is the only source of potential candidates for the major political office, is a closed corporation. It has achieved an almost dynastic and self-perpetuating quality by impart^ ing to all new senators a set of doctrines concerning most issues and especially what the Senate believes it is.
The reasoning toward the end of the above is a bit faulty but the major idea
26
bears considerable thought. This is especially true when coupled with the words of John Hirschfeld, Blue Circle chairman, as written in the April 22, 1958 Class of 1960 newspaper. He said:
I am speaking. . . of the peculiarly apathetic student approach to student government. At the time this article is being written, the problem has reached its apex. In the forthcoming elections, for example, all positions for sophomore class office are uncontested. Even the office of SBP is being sought by a single candidate.
A few last minute candidates did enter the race for those positions, but it was sort of a half-hearted and last-ditch affair.
So, “nonsense number one,” rears its ugly head. There is nothing less logical nor more dangerous than the plague of the uncontested election. For all intents and purposes, the last two student body president “races” were decided well before election day rolled around. Unless this year’s juniors are careful, the same thing is likely to occur again. '
But why is this situation so bad? Why fuss if the man running for a job is well suited for it?
First of all, whether the job be SBP or class officer, when only one man runs it is the reflection of a general campus apathy or an “I don’t care” attitude. Secondly, with no contest there is no voter interest aroused, no issues discussed, and a certain lack of confidence in the winner which is difficult to pin down but is present nonetheless. Thirdly, only one candidate seeking a job either makes the job look unimportant or indicates that those who should run are either afraid or unwilling to sacrifice some selfish interest for the greater good of service and leadership which they could provide.
The problem with the SBP contest bears a little more examination. To be a nominee, a prospective student body president need only have served one term in some official capacity in the Student Senate and have the other minimum scholastic and disciplinary requirements of all elective offices. Not since 1956, however, has there been any real contest. The Senate secretary and treasurer, the most likely potential SBP candidates, are casually elected with little, if any, choice of candidates. The reason for this is that the quality, interest and selflessness of the underclass senators isn’t up to par. Then too, by the spring of the year there always seems to be only one junior senator who
has the control and support of the various campus “power cliques.” Thus this < fellow superficially appears unbeatable, ■ so no one tries to beat him. But enough belaboring of the questions surrounding the top job. Some comments about stu- » dent government elections in general ' are in order:
1)	Issues versus personalities: There is a tendency for the student voter to ’ look no further than a personality when making a decision. The opinions and , < ability of the candidate are often overlooked in the wake of a ready smile and a firm handshake. Often the candidates ; themselves fail to demonstrate to the , : voter some of the real differences of opinion and policy between themselves. : One is tempted to believe that these characters are only running for the prestige of the office.
REASONABLE CAMPAIGN
2)	Campaign sense and nonsense: The * voter doesn’t seem to care about all of , the campaign literature which is passed ’ around. Yet it is only through reasonable campaign literature and personal f and public visits that the candidate can get himself known. The greatest folly of the electorate is to pay more attention to campaign gimmicks than to sound ideas and a search for qualifications.
3)	Rule by payola: A major mistake A for any student government candidate j would be and is the banding together to form a “party” in order to gain control. Such manipulation and control often * clouds the importance of the job, crowds out some really top candidates and obscures and confuses the issues in the eye of the voter. Power and Xli party politics on hall, class and Univer- I sity level are both dangerous and unnec- j essary for dynamic student government. J
4)	Getting the right man: Very often ' it is up to you as a voter to encourage the right people to run for the offices open. Many highly talented and qualified individuals would never, of themselves, think of seeking office. Getting the right , man presupposes. that the qualifications ' and functions of the job itself are well understood. But very often neither the < voter nor the candidate really understands the elective position in question.
The above factors demonstrate some dangerous and eroding toe holds that nonsense has gained in student government. 1 You’ll never get much out of student government unless you “invest” your , vote in the qualified and talented people “ who are right for the job. Throw out the nonsense and replace it with sense— sense in the form of sincere and serious candidates.
The Scholastic ,
These are the silver wings of a U. S. Air Force Navigator. As a flying officer on the Aerospace Team, he has chosen a career of leadership, a career that has meaning, rewards and executive opportunity.
The Aviation Cadet Program is the gateway to this career. To qualify for this rigorous and professional training, a high school diploma is required; however, two or more years of college are highly desirable. Upon completion of the program the Air Force encourages the new officer to earn his degree so he can better handle the responsibilities of his position. This includes full pay and allowances while taking off-duty courses under the Bootstrap education program. The Air Force will pay a substantial part of all tuition costs. After having attained enough credits so that he can complete course work and residence requirements for a college degree in 6 months or less, he is eligible to apply for temporary duty at the school of his choice.
If you think you have what it takes to earn the silver wings of an Air Force Navigator, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Ask him about Aviation Cadet Navigator training and the benefits which are available to a flying
officer in the Air Force. Or fill in and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the Aerospace Team.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
1 am between 19 and 26'A, a citizen of the U. S. and a high school graduate with_________years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Air Force Aviation Cadet program.
Name____________________________________
Street______________________________________________
City________________County__________State___________
U.S. Air Force
Smoking more now...but enjoying it less?
Have a real cigarette -
CAMEL
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem. N. C.
The best tobacco makes the best smoke