
~******************************************************** 
Need To Publicize An Event Or Promote Sales? 
Scholastic Has The Lowest 
Advertising Rates On Campus 
$3.35 per column inch $110 for full inside front cover ... Discounts for regular customers 
WE DESIGN ADS, TOO! 
Get The Most For Your Money let Your Ads Be Seen In Scholastic 
Contact the Scholastic office, 
third floor LaFortune or call 
• 
239-7569 for more information 
********************************************************* 
Contents 

February 19, 1987 Volume 128, No. 16

Scholastic 


En Garde!
16 The Notre Dame men's fencing squad may well be on 
its way to a third-straight undefeated season, the Irish women's team is also undefeated and the Saint Mary's program is rebuilding 

Engineering Success 
21 Former engineer Mike DeCicco has coached his men's fencing teams to 496 victories in 25 years to become Notre Dame's winningest coach ever, while also serv­ing as academic aclvisor for thousands of Irish athletes 

News 
6/ Who Draws the Line By Mark Drajem 

Censorship of art work in last fall's Juggler leads to the larger question of artistic freedom vs. good taste 
Sports 
24/ Weathering the Storm By Larry Burke 

Injuries, defections and defeats have made for a. difficult season, but the Notre Dame women's basketball program is not in ruins 
27 / Scoreboard 

Departments 
4/ Week in Distortion: Mop and Bop Come to Town 5/ On Other Campuses: Do You Have a Fourth ID? 9/ Music: Husker Du Grows Up 10/ Interview: Straight from Hell 14/ Calendar 32/ Final Word: Look, Mom! 
Cover photo by Allan Lim 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate is $18.75/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
...___ 
Edrronal 
Censorship and Juggler 
In the most recent issue of Juggler, Notre Dame's literary and fine arts magazine, a dis­claimer appeared under one piece of art work: "Original choice censored by the Office of Student Activities." Adele Lanan, student activities assistant director for media and pro­
gramming, made the decision to remove a piece from Juggler. Her decision prompted the 
establishment of a committee which would debate the artistic merits of any future works the 
Office of Student Activities considers offensive. 
This incident underscores the inevitable tension between artistic freedom and good taste. It also shows that the Office of Student Activities should show more sensitivity in recognizing the tension between the two. A good first step would be to give the student editors the freedom to make responsible decisions. 
One of the most alarming aspects of the censorship of Juggler is Lanan's violation of the constitution which Juggler editors established with the University provost in 1980. Part of that constitution states, '"At no time will censorship of any form be imposed on the Juggler." Although Lanan may· have thought she was acting in the best interests of the community, her censorship of the art work was in fact misguided. 
Because there is sometimes a fine line between art and obscenity, administrative officials who are not trained in the arts should not determine the content of a publication like Juggler. The proposed committee, which will be called when a dispute arises between Juggler editors and the Office of Student Activities, will be composed of either art or English professors. This committee will judge whether a work is obscene or if it has artistic value. 
' 
Ii 
Although this is a better solution than the recent censorship, it should not be allowed to dominate the work of the student editors. The committee should be used as an exception, not the rule. After all, Juggler is a student publication and policy decisions should be left to the stu­dents. 
Scholastic 

Scholastic 
Vol 128 February 19, 1987 No, 16 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 
Managing Editor: Keith Harrison 
General Manager: Phil Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Larry Burke Departments: Cathy Coffey News: Frank Lipo News: Kathleen McKernan Student Life: Greg Miller Copy Chief: Aimee Starin Student Life: Bob Winn 
Production 
Production Manager: Matt Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: Alan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek 
Administration 
Controller: Pete Cespedes 
Circulation: Mike Hoban· 
Editorial Assistants 
Sports: Ed Jordanich News: Steffanie Keller Sports: Phil Wolf 
Issue 16 Staff 
Art: .  Copy:  
Jim Gallagher  Sara Harty  
Bob White  
Layout:  Photography:  
Mary Faith Feeney  
Sue Serrato  Tim Dempsey  
Alan Silvidi  Juan Marques  
Steve Traubert  Joe Vitacco  


February 19, 1987 · 

Corrections 
Because· of a reporting error, incorrect information was given in the Feb. 12 issue of Scholastic. "Buzz" Eckelkamp, vice-presidential candi­date on the Marty Rodgers ticket, is a member of the Dillon Hall Coun­
cil. Also, Dave Bruner, a candidate for District 3 student senator, is a member of the Dillon Hall Freshman Advisory Committee. Because of editing errors, there were also some misspellings in the issue. The correct spelling of the name of the vice-presidential candidate on the Willie Franklin ticket is Jim Mangan. Also, the names of the members of a Saint Mary's ticket were misspelled in a photo caption. The correct spelling of their names is Ann Rucker, Ann Eckhoff and Ann Reilly. 
Scholastic 

Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
is accepting applications for: 
Departments Editor 
Any Notre Dame_ <:>r Saint Mary's undergraduate. may apply. Contact Maher Mouasher for details: Scholasti~-office, 3~ floor Lafortune, 239 -7569. Applications are due by Wednesday, February.25 

Our three-year and . two-year scholarships won't 
make college easier. 
Justeasierto payfor. 
Even ifyou didn't start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to Sl,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Interested? Contact Captain Domingo at 239-6264. 

ARMY RESERVE QFFICERS'TR.AININC CC>RPS 
' ' 
. 
: 
' 


Mop and Bop Come toTown 
Despite dinner table fights, bedwetting and adolescent rebellion, · parents still trek to Notre Dame for Junior Parents' Weekend 
By John Coyle 
other and Father, Mom and Dad, Mop and 
Bop, the folks, the 'rents, the parental units. 
That's right, light a candle in the steeple of the 
M 

Old North Church. The parents are coming, the parents are coming! Hide the beer, hide the failed. tests, hide the licentious women . . . well, hide the beer and the old tests, anyway. 
It's time for the annual Junior Parents' Weekend and hundreds of parents will be out in force. And even my favorite parents Joan and Jack will be here, looking to cause a little trouble. But why do our parents come? Why trek hundreds of miles to the social wasteland of South Bend in the dead of winter to see your spoiled, know it all, wiseass kid? 
Let's face it, kids are basically jerks and a general pain in the caboose and most of us are no different It's amazing that after all these years, our parents haven't traded us ·in for something useful like a new garbage disposal, or something enjoyable like a week in Aruba. Raising children is a series of hard-fought battles to maintain authority, an authority we little brats are confident can be broken. 
I, too, was a little stinker (sorry Mrs. Brady) who was determined to break the oppressive ruling class of my house. Looking back, I think the first battle­field was my bed. See, back in my young tot period, I was a champion bedwetter. But no matter how many times my Mom told me not to drink before going to bed, I'd always manage to secretly chug a half gallon of orange Hi-C before I jumped into the rack. "What does she know and besides where does she get off telling me what to do?," thought I, a brash, man of the world four-year-old. So despite my Mom's well­intentioned warnings, I spent the better part of my kindergarten days sleeping on rubber sheets. No parent was ever going to boss me around. 
The dinner table was the next battle zone. This was where you really could get down and dirty. Sav­ing our best troublemaking stuff, my sister, my brother and I would wait for an evening when Dad had had a really rough day at the office and Mom was fed up with the triviality of housekeeping. Then we would strike. For the overture, we would com­plain about the type and portions of Mom's meal. "Yuck. I hate liver. What do we have to eat this junk for? And why does Danny have less than I do? You love him better." 
Once dinner got going,· we'd really start kicking in. After hurling a few kid-mentality jibes at one another (You look like a big-booger, You have elephant ears, etc.), we'd move on to more mature stuff like playing "see-food" and sticking peas up our noses. Then the physical assault would start ­hand problems, my Dad would call it An arm pinch here, an ear tweak there, throw in a few "wet wil­lies" and a couple of punches and all hell would break loose. Mom and Dad, reasonaply under control until now, would yell, holler and scream and we'd high-tail it up to our rooms thinking we had the meanest, cruelest parents in the whole wide world. 
By high school the topic for the strength of wills was the proper social life for a 17-year old. Feeling my oats and owning my own car, I felt it was my pubescent duty to oppose any attempts by my parents to question or impose any restrictions on my social habits. By this time I was at the peak of my jerk­hood and insolence while my parents were tlt the peak of their coolness and understanding. 
But despite of all our childish and jerky behavior over the years most of our parents, for what reason I'm not quite sure, still love us. So, in gratitude for all their love and support, the least we can do is act like normal, mature, appreciative human beings · when we are around them -even if we do revert back to our old selves the moment we're back out of their sight. ¦ 


Do You Have AFourth ID? 
Edited by Mike Farnan 

Psychedelic hair, a pious janitor, a month-long hoops game and drinking (again) are what's on oth~r campuses lately 
Drinking is allowed again at some 
schools, albeit with a few conditions, following widespread bans and strict regulation of alcohol con­sumption at many colleges during recent years. According to the College Press Service, a few years of prohibition have ended at Northern Arizona, where students can drink again on campus if they go through a training program first. At Alabama, frater­nities will soon be able to serve alcohol at parties again, though only if they build six-foot permanent fences around the party areas and have ID checkers at the entrances. 
The 'route to success' for freshmen was 
the subject of a study conducted' by UCLA and the American Council on Education and published in the National On-Campus Report, and it has revealed some interesting results. More than seven percent of college freshmen, up 4.7 percent in 1982, plan to major in education. Almost one-fourth, an all-time high, plan to major in business. Meanwhile, student interest in computing, engineering, and health careers has declined. Freshmen interest in business and education, both promising healthy job markets, coincides with current student values: almost three-::··-­
fourths of the freshmen surveyed rated "being well-
off financially" as a "very important" or "essential" life goal. 
A basketball. game between Fordham 
and Fairfield universities that began on January 10 was fin_ally completed nearly a month later. The game was suspended with one minute and 42 seconds remaining after the grandmother of a Fairfield player had a fatal heart attack in the stands, reported The Chronicle of Higher Education in a recent issue. Fordham led, 70-66. Fairfield asked for a break to. give the team time for an "emotional cool-down." The end of the original game was played at Fordham before a regularly scheduled game on the condition that Fordham don road-game dark jerseys for the completion of the first game and switch to the home-game white jerseys for the second game. 
February 19, 1987 
A janitor at the University of Rhode Island may be suspended for two weeks because he has been taking his lunch break 30 minutes late in order to attend Mass. In an article published in The Chronicle of Higher Education, janitor Gerard W. Southland, 43, called the. situation "sick," adding, "The chapel is there for the university." Southland has been taking his break from noon to 12:30 p.m. The university says he must take his half hour break at 11:30 a.m. because that is when the building emp­ties. The university began docking a half-hour's wage from Southland's pay after he continued to attend the Catholic Mass. The university has offered him jobs in other buildings that would allow him to break at noon but he refused.Ill 
i' 
Green hair almost cost one Ohio State 
University student his job as a student parking atten­dant recently. According to the National On­Campus Report, officials fired the young man after receiving complaints about his hair. School policy, however, says nothing about hair color because that might be considered discriminatory. The school rehired the student, who agreed to wear a hat. Now the student is bare-headed again after having shaved his head last month. 

News 


Who Draws The Line ? 
By Mark Drajem 
The censorship of art work in last fall's Juggler leads to the larger question of artistic freedom vs. good taste 
I 
n 1980, a constitution was established by Juggler, 
Notre Dame's literary maga­zine, in cooperation with the University provost. Article VII states, "At no time will censorship of any form be imposed on the Juggler." This statement has signi­ficance because of a disclaimer placed below a piece of art work in the latest Juggler, which states, "Original choice censored by the Office of Student Activities." 
Last fall, Juggler art editor Jen­nifer Niederst recommended two pieces of graduate student Nick Antonakis' works of art for publi­cation. Editor Mike Morales said that he made the final approval of Antonakis' works, although he had reservations about their artistic merit. 
After the selection and editing 

·process, the magazine was sent directly to the publisher. Accord­ing to customary policy, no one from the Office of Student Activi­ties looked at the magazine before it was sent to the publisher. 
ming) said that she just wanted to action. Juggler replaced the origi­The proofs of the magazine take a look at the magazine." nal work with another one of ­were returned by the publisher to Morales showed her the proofs. Antonakis' monotypes. Below it be checked for misprints by the staff placed the disclaimer. 
Lanan objected to one of
Morales and the Juggler staff. At Antonakis' works. She contacted The original art work -was -athis time, Morales said, "Adele the publisher and had the work mono type which AntonakisLanan (student activities assistant removed from the magazine. described as "a very personal, verydirector for media and program-Morales was aware of Lanan's emotional piece." Antonakis, a 
Scholastic 


~ ---~--=--~----~--~.~__-_-_-----: --.------~------.-------. --,-. < . . -• '-~--._ ' 
_, . --­
News 
third year art student, said he is not certain why the Office of Stu­dent Activities censored his art work. 


"What probably came across to the viewer was an intimate scene between a . man. and a woman, 
· although it might be ambiguous," said Antonakis. "But it doesn't matter to me how the viewer interprets it." 
His style, which uses a mixture of dark and light uses the "power of ambiguity," he said. This style often makes the figures look androgynous. 
"I can understand why (the Office of Student Activities) might have done it, but I can't agree with their. decision ( to pull the monotype,)" said Antonakis. "It sounds like it implies a value judgment of some kind. 
"If we knew what kind of judgement they made; we could talk more specifically about it," said Antonakis. "I don't think they should be in a position to pull something out once the Juggler has decided the piece has merit," he added. 

Antonakis. "Is intimacy in bad taste? 
"In general terms it wasn't an offensive piece and by no means would I think it's in bad taste," said Antonakis. 
Niederst said she was surprised when the original artwork was pulled. But she speculated that perhaps Antonakis' artwork would have had a shift of focus when the monotype was reduced in size for reproduction in Juggler. Niederst said this shift of focus possibly might have put too much emphasis on the figures themselves. The ori­ginal work was approximately 18 by 24 inches. . 
According to Juggler faculty . advisor John Matthias and 
Morales, the issue was not the art 
work itself, but 
the. principle that 
In an attempt to resolve the possibility of this conflict being repeated, Morales met with Lanan this semester. They clarified what the interaction was to be between Juggler and Student Activities. In the future, before Juggler is sent to the publisher initially, Student Activities may review it. 

If the office decides that a piece is unacceptable for publish­ing, then a committee will be esta­blished to work with them in order to determine whether the artistic merit of the work qualifies it for publication. Both the editor and the faculty advisor of Juggler will · team with members of the art or English department, depending on the type of work under considera­
tion, to form this committee. 

the Office of Stu­dent Activities could censor the artwork. The art, Morales said, "was not a piece worth fighting over." However, he said, "Adele (Lanan) does not have the qualifi­cations to judge aesthetic quali­ties." 
Matthias sup­ported Morales' objection: "(The piece) was not a masterpiece, but our concern was with the abstract question." That question is who has the final con­
trol over what is Permission to use photo courtesy Nick Antonakis 


published in· The art work by Nick Antonakis which was the 
"What is the criteria?" said 

Juggler, he said. original choice of the Juggler. 

News 
Lanan was contacted several times, but refused to be inter­viewed about this incident. She released a prepared statement which read, in its entirety: 
"It is generally agreed that some items submitted for publica­tion would be offensive to our the first time that the administra­tion has intervened in the work­ings of the magazine. 

In 1947, Juggler was established with the aim of providing an outlet for serious artistic expres­sion. A September 26, 1975 Scho­lastic article explained, "When the 



community. People can disagree on where that line should be drawn. In an ideal world those who would submit materials would only submit those materials that would not exceed the boundaries of our community's tolerance. 
"But this is not a perfect world. And on occasion some inappropri­ate material is submitted for pub­lication and in these cases we need to consult with the senior members of our community. 
"When this issue arose there appeared to be no committee in place and a decision had to be made quickly. Now a committee has been formed and I am confi­dent that with the assistance of 
this committee's recommendation 
future conflicts will be minim­
ized." 
Matthias said he is cautiously optimistic about the new commit­tee structure. "I anticipate no major problems for the moment," he said. 
This new agreement between the Office of Student Activities and Juggler appears to resolve the recent difficulties. But this is not older, more mature GI-Bill stu­dents flocked to Notre Dame after the war, it was decided that they needed an outlet for their own serious artistic expression; and thus, the Juggler." . 
The Juggler's concerns are, according · to its constitution, "literary and artistic, and it seeks to present the best imaginative efforts of the Notre Dame com­munity." This aim does not neces­sarily lead to wide popular support for the magazine. 
This lack of popular support led to a proposed cut of funds dur­ing the summer of 1969. The administration announced that the publication did not have a wide enough readership to justify its large funding. 
This was not the only reason for the funding cut, though. In a letter to the Vice-President's Council, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh wrote, "(Juggler) seemed to depend more and more upon the four-letter word for effects." 
In 1980 the Office of Student Activities attempted to place Juggler under the control of the English department. Its principle objection at the time concerned the fact that not enough undergra­duate work was being published in the magazine. 
A secondary · issue concerned the language in one piece of litera­ture. According to Lawrence Siems, then editor, one piece was "full of obscenities." He said he believed, though, that the play contained artistic merit. 
Neither the cut in funds, nor the · takeover by the English department ever occurred. But the recent debate about censorship makes it clear that some tension still remains between Student Activities' view of literary merit and Juggler's. 
Matthias disagrees that "good taste" is a criterion to judge what works should be chosen for Juggler. "The literary magazine must print the best works available to it. A work could be good but not nice." 
Another problem may be emerging from this situation. This is what Morales labeled "self­censorship." The artist may fear that his art work will be censored, so he will guard his creative ener­gies. Morales also said he sees the potential for another problem: "The editor might begin to self­censor. He may tone . down in order to avoid controversy." 
The question of where to draw the line between artistic expres­sion and good taste is not exclusive to Juggler. The Office of Student Activities oversees Juggler, but also WVFI, Scholastic and Dome. In the end, the final determination of "inappropriate material" could be the University's . since Notte Dame financially subsidizes them; Said Matthias: "The University is the publisher. They have the final say."1111 · 
Scholastic 


HOsker DO Grows Up
Warehouse: Songs and Stories shows the former punk band 


maturing as "artistes," and still doing a good job of it 
By Tim Adams 


The pleasures on Husker Du's Warehouse: Songs and Stories are there all right, but it would take more than a tiny kick in the rump to get me to say this is a great album.· It isn't. What it is is a two-record set sporting some high-quality songs (for the most part penned by gui­tarist Bob Mould), many more good ones and a handful of ho­hum numbers. The band b.as com­pleted its metamorphosis from punk band to rock band -a good thing, given the almost schizo­phrenic nature of Candy Apple Grey, . their 1986 major label debut. In the interim, Mould's poetically-inspired lyrics have had a chance to grow into his new, less sonically cluttered tunes, while drummer Grant Hart apparently has relinquished his attempt to subvert the Top 40. So instead of "All This I've Done for You" and "Don't Want to Know if You ·are Lonely," here we get Mould's excellent "Ice Cold Ice" and Hart's groovy "She Floated Away." A good deal, if you ask me. 
But there are problems. Mould displays an irritating tendency to write most of his songs in the same tempo, using several of the same chords and breaks, too. His best moments occur when he shakes things up a bit, as with the swingy beat of "Turn It Around," his ter-· rific soaring vocal work in "Friend, You've Got to Fall," or 
February 19, 1987 with the beautiful "Bed of Nails," an amazing exercise in depression. Elsewhere, he can't quite give his songs personality. 

And if it wasn't already obvi­ous that Hart simply · 1acks the knack to consistently fill his songs with good lyrics, then it's public knowledge now. In the past, he's written some pretty potent stuff ­great killer/rapist ramblings in "Diane," words to scream by in "The Girl Who Lives on Heaven Hill," and some effective lovey­dovey lyrics in "Green Eyes" ­but in Husker Du's more literary setting today, he really can't cut the mustard. 
It seems that when things got loud and heavy, as was pretty much a way of !ife for the old Husker Du, the band's music and Hart's writing connected on every plane; with the volume down, however, his songs only flaunt their flaws. 
Warehouse can't top Husker Du's accomplishments in their glory days, of course; there will ae very few records released this decade that will stand up to Metal Circus, "Eight Miles High," Zen Arcade or New Day Rising. But if one posits the band and this record in the grand scheme of things (i.e. the corporate rock scene), their star shines pretty darn brightly. The development that Mould has shown is especially encouraging, and in time he'll be ablevto relax and allow his songs to shed their musical homogeneity. Or so I hope. 
Sure, the things· that made Husker Du so great in the first place are in scarce supply nowa­days. Speed, aistortion and volume no longer characterize the band's songs, but they've been replaced by a good measure of skill and even some musical development. 
·Can't say I recommend the band as much as I used to, but then again, they still can whup the daylights out of a million How1rd Jones/Branski Beat synth-wimps, so give 'em some credit. 1111 


""· 


Straight From Hell 
Interviewed by Catherine Coffey 


Matt Groening, author and illustrator of the cartoon "Life in Hell," has been touted by People magazine as one of "America's hip­pest, funniest guys." Appearing in 60 publications each week including Scholastic, "Life in Hell" features three rabbits -Binky, Sheba, and Bongo ­and two fez-clad humans named Akbar and Jeff. Groening (rhymes with raining) has just completed his third book, "School is Hell," a sequel to "Love is Hell" and "Work is Hell," that will be released in the next few months. Scholastic recently spoke with the cartoonist about his livelihood. 
How did you get involved in cartooning? 
Becoming a cartoonist and paying the rent with my little drawings was a fluke. I went to school with the intention of becoming a writer of some sort. I was always undecided as to whether I should go into academics or become a journalist. It looked like jour­nalism was the direction in which I was going to go. I edited my school paper and while I was there I drew cartoons just for laughs. 
What school was this? 
Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington. It's about 100 miles from Portland, Oregon, where I grew up. 
What made you decide to go to ~vergreen? 
Well, I was a little wiseass in high school and I was very much fed up with grades and tests and hall passes and all the other qualities I associate with traditional education. So I went to a school that rem­inded me least of high school. I picked a school that had no grades, no requirements, no majors, no tests, no fraternities, no football team, and unfortunately, no jobs upon graduation. 
But it's a wonderful school. One of the nice things about it was that people could decide to do some-. thing and do it, they weren't limited by restrictions or regulations. That's how I became editor of the paper without ever having taken a journalism course. 
/ 
,SlrJK~ SHE.~A 
!.TAR. oi: "L11'E 1-l 
lltollt'f0S &A$ IL., lb:EII MHL-"' (,•ltLi:jLtl.JO. 
~I.•~~, l,,,r,J~f.,.J 
Pio,.~.JS q-, ,o
P'Ol::tO, 
Poo:t; 8,..l1t'f. 
01 ST1'"'1I.U1St1,J f, 
C>•~T•"""''"'~ b
FLA~v't{ S 11.rl.U•erJC, 
l'~-.TultES': &-.SICA"')
i'1(S, OIIEltl •T~. 
8,ws:'f I.J 1=i ..AL£: 
iltoT'Uci,~ EAl S 
c,...e e. 
,SotJGo 
l?,1o.lll:'t 0S ILLE(.1T•M4TE io,.J. 
E•,.,~ ..._"".,~"' 
THA.,.J 8uJw::..,. 
P1ST•olGu1s .. ,.J(, 
FE.ATUl/!\:S: PR,TT'1 

OQ'tl10\,IS, ,,..,.,. IT? 
AIC&AR. i:.J~~i: 
8e~&l!S oR LIJll't', 
Ill! Pon •8.L., IJOTk. 
i.)O'T'k,.,C, 1"£A"rt.ll'IS Tt<E'"'. 

Pt ~,..,.,,u,u, ui G l=EA"rllltS: I'& Z.Z.IS, ioTW ,~,s o,, s-~ 
l•Vt OS: M,Ai:>. 
And that's where "Life In Hell" first appeared? 
Just the rabbits. I got the name when I first moved to Los Angeles. I came from an area of the country that had blue skies and rushing streams, nice big mountains that occasionally blew up, trout leaping around, salmon and all that stuff. Then I came to California, where_ the air was brown, the water was brown and the ground was brown. I really thought it was hell. 




Do you promote your political views through your cartoons? 
I think the best humor always comes from strong 
beliefs. Whether you agree or disagree with my stuff or my attitude, I think the exaggerated point of view is part of what makes them funny. I mean, I don't really believe that life is literally hell, although I think that there are a lot of aspects of life which are hellish and which need not be. It's fun to rail against the status quo and the silly self-delusions of our cul­ture. 
Have other cartoonists influenced you? 
I could easily not create my own stuff and be very happy because there are lots of really great cartoon­ists out there. As far as cartoons go I admire the work of Lynda Barry who I worked with on my col­lege newspaper. I like Nicole Hollander -she does a daily comic strip called "Sylvia" -Gary Larson and Charles Schultz. 
Two of my characters, Akbar and Jeff, were inspired by Charlie Brown. When I was little, I used to try to draw Charlie Brown and it never came ou.t 
Cartoonist Matt Groening at his home in Los Angeles February 19, 1987 
looking right. I finally just gave up and put both eyes on the same side of the nose, but you'll notice that they're still wearing Charlie Brown shirts. 
Are Akbar and Jeff homosexuals? 
I think they're gay, but they are virgins. They do live together; They're just sweet little guys. I'm unsure as to exactly what their nature is, I'm developing it as I go along. 
Do you plan to introduce any new characters? 
Yes, Bongo will have a new girlfriend shortly. She's a cat and her name is Virys. It's the first non­rabbit major character that will enter the strip. She's a troublemaker. Part of the reason why I don't intro­duce new characters often is because I need one that I can be comfortable drawing over and over and over again. I've been drawing rabbits for, you know, twenty years. 
Why a cat? 

Partly because I've run out of variations of rabbits that people can tell apart. There are three rabbits in the strip: a two-eared rabbit named Binky, a female rabbit named Sheba who is basically Binky in drag ­
, ~, just as Minnie Mouse is basically Micky -and then 
. ~ Bongo, the little one eared rabbit. He has only one aear because he's the most alienated rabbit in the ~ whole world. 
How long does it take you to create a cartoon? 
Anywhere from a half hour to a couple days, depending on how close the deadline is. I generally . work at the last minute, it's something I learned from school. For me the hard part is drawing; that's the slowest portion of the process. I love writing the stuff. 
Well, cartooning is a form of play and I consider myself lucky because it feels like an extension of the playing around I did when I was a kid. There's a real tendency for adults to ignore childhood or to trivial­ize it -partially becau:sc people just can't remember. What we do is remember things. 
Are you working on any new books? 
Yes. I got the idea for my new project from a weekly music column I used to write for a newspaper in Los Angeles. Eventually, it was switched from music to writing about nightlife and my various misadventures. Anyway, I was taking a walk one day by a high school on the last day of school and all over the front lawn were scattered papers that the kids had tossed. I picked up some of these and read them and found them so funny and ridiculous that I printed them in my column. I got such a good reac­
11 


•,1 


tion that I went back and got a bunch more material and I ran it for four weeks straight until my editor told me to knock it off or they'd fire me -which they ended up doing anyway. 
Last June I went out to every high school in Los Angeles -and there are a lot of them -on the last day of school and I got discarded notebooks. I'm .putting 
them together as a book of teenagers' writings. It won't come out till after "School is Hen." 
Do you thinkyour comics are funny? 
Yeah, I'm really writing them for myself. I used to try to make other people laugh and the jokes were real filthy. When I gave that up and tried to amuse myself, they got good, or so people tell me. II · 
\JFE(tJ ~~(,.1,­


CHILOHOOO TRIBULA1"10NS 
FORCED NAPS W~ITtiJ6 FOl2. THE CAgrootJ5;' TO CDI\I\E ON 
CAR-RCJrS 11\lSTE.AD OF C..OOKIE.S 

Tl-\c BE.611\lt.Jl~G OF WISDOM 

12 


Scholastic Is Back! 
PARENTS -Stay in touch with Notre Dame life. . 
Subscribe to Scholastic for weekly coverage of: 
News Sports 
Digs beneath the ~urface of campus and Reports that go beyond the box scores 
national stories, giving readers a detailed and headlines to give sports fans a 
look at current issues. unic;•Je picture of the Notre Dame sports comrn11nity. 
Student Life 
Columns on the latest music, film and 
literature, and stories which focus on 
student lifestyles. 
d 
i
Subscribe Now 
'·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·I I I I I I 
Please send years of Scholastic to: I I 
----I 
Name -----------------------------'"-----' I 
Address ____________~-----------------­
City ----------------State _____ Zip _______ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic ~1agazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $18.7 5 x years =$____ 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------. -----------------­
February 19, 1987 .13 


~T)~ fc..tf1-2S 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY 

FILMS: MUSIC: 
SPECIAL EVENTS: "Sound of Music" 
Elizabeth Gerrish Hall Snow Sculpture ContestCarroll Auditorium recital All DormatoriesMaledeleva Hall Snite Museum SMC campusSMC 
7:30 p.m. 3 p.m.
7 and 9:30 p.m. $1 The Big Apple Sendoff
LECTURES: Haggar Hall"Wizards" Prof. Roderick Chisholm 4:30-6:30 p.m.
Engineering Auditorium "Souls as Simple Substances" Free7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.50 Library Lounge 
4:15 p.m. Senior Class:SPECIAL EVENTS: Indy Trip
Martin ShefterCaricature Artist "Cities in the American Constitutional Junior Parents' WeekendHaggar.Hall 
Order'' Cocktail DanceSMC Room 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium ACC Arena2-4 p.m. 
4:16-5:30 p.m. 9:30 p.m.
Free 
FRIDAY
Senior Class: LECTURES: Jamaica Night FILMS: Cheri£ Bassiouni Senior/Alumni Club 11 About Last Night" International criminal law specialist "Terrorism"
Engineering Auditorium
Sophomore Class: Room 101 Law School7, 9:16, 11:S0 p.m. $1.60
"Almost Anything Goes!" 
12 p.m.Stepan "My Beautiful Laundrette" 8-10 p.m. Gerrald L. Bruns
Annenberg Auditorium 7:30, 9:30 p.m. $1.60 
"Otherwise than Language" Room 222 Hayes-Healy 
4:30 .m. 
All times are CblClll(l time. 
i' 
I 
Jj
i, 
I' 
Scholastic 


Compiled by Ace Corsetto end Charlie Buckley 
SATURDAY 
FILMS: 

"Sound of Music" Carroll Hall Maledeva Hall SMC 
1:30 p.m. $1 
11 ••• About Last Night" Engineeri~g Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1.50 
SPECIAL EVENTS: Snowball Fight Cookies and Cocoa SMC campus 3p.m. Free 
Junior Parents Weekend Mass ACC Arena 4:30-5:30 p.m. President's Dinner ACC North Dome 6:15-9:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY 

SPECIAL EVENTS: 
Junior Parents' Weekend Brunch ACC North Dome 
10:30 a.m. 
SPORTS: 
Wrestling: 
vs. Indiana 
ACC 
2 p.m. 

MONDA'li 
FILMS: 
"The Conversation" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7 p.m. $1.50 
"Remember My Name" Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. $1.50 

TUESDAY 
FILMS: 
"Manhattan" 

Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. $1.50 
SPORTS: 
Women's Basketball: vs. Northern Illinois ACC 
7:30 p.m. EST 
WEDNESDAY 
FILM: 
"Maltese Falcon" Engineering Auditorium 7 9 11 .m. $1 "The Cabinet of Doctor Caligari/Nosferatu11 Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
THEATER: "The Fifth Sun" Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. 

SPORTS: Men's Basketball: vs. DePaul ACC 
7:30 p.m. EST 
TICKETS TO THESE EVENTS MAY BE PURCHASED THROUGH: 
Ticketmaster: (312) 559-1212 Ticketron: (312) TIC-KETS Hot Tix Booth: Half-price "day of performance" tickets to theater, concert sporting events and other attractions 
Theater Tix: (312) 853--0505 Curtain Call: 24-hour information line with performance schedules (312) 977-1755 Jam Concert Line: For complete concert information (312) 666-666 

Michiana 
.eq~.in?.·: :. . • ark > .,..\.~'.:'t: 
Illerican TaH'',<<r
:~i:cr~O.p/i; 
d9:Sop:m;. 


:;m,.5:30,.7:so and 9:30'.p.m,U!: ,,, 



Sports 


En Garde! 
By Mike Chmiel 
The Notre Dame men's fencing squad may well be on its way to a third-straight undefeated season, the Irish women's team­is also undefeated, and the Saint Mary's program is rebuilding 


While sports talk abounds on the Notre Dame campus about possible national championships in football and 
basketball, a group of talented Notre Dame athletes quietly con­tinue their progress toward a second consecutive national cham­pionship this spring. Mike DeCicco and his Irish fencers are attempting to go undefeated for the third straight yec1r and head into the NCAA tournament as favorites to win it all.
I 
With little doubt, the Notre
il 
! Dame fencing teams have pro­vided the best and most consistent results in Notre Dame athletic his­tory. Currently, the men are main­taining a 69-meet win streak and the women are holding their own with 38 straight wins in dual meets. 
As Notre Dame celebrates 50 years of fencing this season, the Irish men are looking to extend a rich tradition of fencing success which dates back to 1934 when the Irish went 3-5 and lost 17 more bouts than they won. Since then,· with the exception of the World War II years when fencing took 
16 

time off for three years followed by a 2-4 record in 1943, the Irish men have seen their record dip below .500 only once. Since 1934, they have boosted their record to 703-92 (.884). The women's teams have amassed a record of 172-57 (.75 I) since the program's incep­tion in 1972. 
The Idsh fencing program is continuing its success story this year. Despite doubts by many, the men have been able to live up to their status as the defending national champs. The 1986-87 record stands at 16-0 with 358 bouts won in 432 outings (.828). 
"If you were to ask me in Sep­tember what our chances were to be ·undefeated today, knowing some of the teams we fence, I would say that it would be a 50-50 
chance that we'd be undefeated, primarily because of the (gradua­tion) losses that we had from last year," Decicco commented. 
= 
i0 
E
.s
.s 
-i: 
& 
fll 
.,§
2i 
f 
~ 
~ 
1: 
:I 
0 0 


--~~-< -•---_:_ ~ -~ • -,""' --~ ------~ ,----~ • -, , -,. ~--~ -~., 
'

, -. ·,
' :: , . -­
Last year's 26-0 Irish dom­inated 1986 NCAA action, but they also graduated seven of nine starters, five of whom were all­Americans. This season's squad was predicted to achieve less suc­cess; however, strong efforts in all three weapons: foil, epee and sabre, have put the Irish in the 
1 spotlight once again. 
"You can't buy the experience

l 
that you graduate," DeCicco con­tinued. "Why are we where we are today? I suspect it's because of people like (sophomore) Derek Holeman in foil who not only stepped in and took Mike Van der Velden's place but right now is standing at 24-2. That's not bad." 
Most would consider the Irish foilists as the backbone of this year's team. While they did gradu­ate Van der Velden (seventh on the all-time Irish win list with 137 wins), the foilists kept their top two fencers of '86 in senior cap­tain Charles Higgs-Coulthard and junior Yehuda Kovacs. Higgs­Coulthard, who won the NCAA title in the foil as a freshman in 1984, notched a 32-5 (.865) mark 

last year and finished third in the 
NCAA State's Kovacs.  tourney Adam  behind Feldman  Penn and  
In  his  rookie  campaign  last  

year, Kovacs notched a 40-4 mark (second best in Irish history), won the Great Lakes Championships in the foil, and won the silver medal at the NCAA event. Both, Kovacs and Higgs-Coulthard, were instru­mental in last year's title as they combined for 28 of the 80 bouts won in the final rounds. This year, the senior captain (26~2, .928) is pleased with the efforts of the entire squad. 
"We've all improved a great deal," Higgs-Coulthard explained. "We think of ourselves as the strong point of the team. Over the last week, we've showed what we 
are made of in going 36-4 and los­ing only four bouts to the eight teams we fenced." 
Kovacs leads the entire Irish team with a perfect 24-0 record. Filling the No. 3 spot in the foil, Holeman has impressed his coaches with a surprising 24-2 (.923) mark. Adding depth in the multi-team meets are freshmen Joel Clark (16-1) and Colin Gumbs (12-5) along with seniors Alex Fuster (11-3) and Brian Mitalo (9-5). 
If the foilists form the strongest unit on this year's team, the epeeists might be looked upon as the weakest unit. Last year, the epeeists graduated all-Americans Mike Gostigian (17-7) and Chris­tian Scherpe (34-7). The duo fin­ished third and fourth, respec­tively, in the NCAA tourney and were also important in winning 30 bouts en route to the Irish cham­pionship. 
Sullivan (right) is a two-time all-American and the defending national champion in the women;s 
foil. 
Sports 

DeCicco coined a "weak link" title for the squad in hopes of motivating his epeeists. After a slow beginning with 10 losses at the beginning of the season,. the 

epee squad changed speeds and moved ahead of the others with a 31-5 mark in the Wisconsin Invita­tional. 
"So far, we've done better than I expected us to," senior captain Tim Vaughan explained. "We're working really hard. We're work­ing together as a team, and we've got a lot of team spirit going." 
In a search for consistency, DeCicco has employed nine dif­ferent epeeists in dual meets this season. After a 15-1 mark last year, sophomore Todd Griffee leads the team this year . with a strong 26-2 record. Also doing well for the Irish are Vaughan (24-5), sophomore Ted Fay (13-8), seniors John Haugh (12-2), Dave Lennert (12-5), Ron Golden (l l­
3 ),  and  Brian  Walsh  (1-1 ),  and  
juniors  Chris Reardon (8-1)  and  
Doug Dudinski (9-1 ).  

"The Notre Dame epee team is still the weak link as far as I'm 
17 


Sports 




concerned," DeCicco said. They've got to beat a team like Illinois to prove to me that what they've been doing is for real." 
According to Vaughan, the "weak" adjective does not bother the epeeists but merely serves as a rallying point. "We're just kind of looking at it as a team spirit thing to get us going," Vaughan says. "The mental game is very impor­tant. Our technical skills are there. We seem to have the technical abilities. It's just a matter of being in shape and being able to do it at the right time." 
With a strong foil squad and a weak epee squad, the Irish sabre squad occupies a pivotal position. When it does well, chances are that the Irish do well. The sabremen, however, graduated three starters last spring. Lost were all­American Don Johnson (28-9), John Edwards (28-14), and Tony Consoli (40-8). Despite this toll, DeCicco has been able to replenish his perennially strong sabre squad with three talented fencers. 
Senior sabre captain Kevin Stoutermire leads the unit as one of Notre Dame's strongest con­tenders. After posting 31 wins in his first two seasons in the sha­dows of the top three or four sabremen, Stoutermire finally got his chance to impress onlookers with a 29-1 mark last year. This season, the senior has posted a 31-2 record and is expected to be a top prospect for the individual crown in March. 
"My record is 31-2, and the two bouts that I've lost, I should not have lost," Stoutermire explained. ·"I'm fencing probably better than I should be fencing at this time." 
Junior Geoff Rossi (22-6) and sophomore Tim Collins (27-6) pro­vide a solid second and third weapon. Following a compound leg fracture that sidelined him last year, Rossi has picked up were he left off as a freshman when he posted an 18-2 mark. Following a 13-5 campaign last year, Collins has surprised many by stepping forward to capture the third spot on the squad. 

"Our strong point is the third man, Tim Collins," Stoutermire explained. "He's been doing a lot better than what I had planned. We thought the third spot was going to be very weak, and he has actually made it very strong. This has made the overall sabre team very strong." 
Adding further strength to the team, freshman Danny Yu (15-4), sophomore Steve Rawlings (I 1-3), and senior Brian Quinn (10-3) are proving important as well in pro­viding wins and tough competition in practice for the top three weapons. 
"The top three guys have been doing very well in the sense that we haven't lost a meet to any team yet," Stoutermire said. "\Yhat makes a strong fencing team is, not so much having three people, but having a strong team insofar as the number four, five, and six men." 
Going into 

their final month of fencing, the Irish look to tangle with the undefeated Fighting Illini and rival Wayne State this weekend, the Great 


Sports 
Lakes Championships next week­end, and the NCAA Champion­ships in mid-March. Standing in the way of a third-straight unde­reated season is Illinois, while a new format for the NCAA Cham­pionship may thwart a repeat for the Irish in March. 
This weekend the Irish will host Michigan State, Illinois, Cleveland State, Eastern Michigan, Case Western Reserve, and Michigan­Dearborn on Saturday. A depleted rival squad from Wayne State also ventures to Notre Dame for an emotional match-up on Sunday. 
"For us to (beat Illinois), Kevin (Stoutermire) would have to have his usual good day, Tim Collins would have to come through and so would Geoff Rossi," DeCicco explains. "We have to win the 


sabre. I.( we don't win the sabre, we could be in trouble. Illinois has got a super epee team and a super foil team." 
Following the tough home­stand, the Irish will then venture up to Dearborn, MI, where they will look to win their fourth con­secutive Great Lakes . title. Since the tournament's inception in 1968, the Irish have finished either 
February 19, 1987 

first, second, or third. In the last 12 years, 10 Great Lakes Cham­pions have gone on to capture the national title. If the Irish can do well at home this weekend, and capture the Great Lakes title next weekend, they should be the favorites headed into the NCAA meet. 
A new format for the NCAA tourney, however, may thwart the Irish bid. Instead of allowing two fencers in each. weapon to advance to the final round, this year's for­mat will only allow one fencer in each weapon to advance. This way, a team would only need three good fencers (one in each weapon) to do well in the tournament. 
According to DeCicco, such a tournament detracts from the team concept involved in winning a national title. A team with only three fencers and no team wins on the year, could conceivably win a national championship with this new format 
"I really didn't like the fact that they went to one (man in each weapon) because it takes away from what a national champion really is," Stoutermire contested. 
"It's ridiculous," said Kovacs, who contrasted the format to that of team events in Europe, where four fencers represent a team and vie for a title. 
while the 

Notre Dame men may find a tough road still ahead, the women are set to finish the season on a strong note and come away with a national title. Last year, the Irish lost a single match to Penn and came· away with a runner-up prize. This year, the 


Sports 
Irish are hoping to better that mark and win their first national title. 
"The girls are doing well now," explained second year head coach Yves Auriol. "They're becoming more of a team rather than just one girl winning all of the bouts." 
Junior Molly Sullivan leads the Irish as a two-time all-American and the defending national cham­pion in the women's foil. In her first two years, Sullivan accumu­lated a 91-7 (.929) record. This year, she has represented the United States at a world meet in West Germany while also notching an l"l -3 mark for the Irish: 
Fencing in the second spot, sophomore Janice Hynes has also picked up where she left off last year. After going 45-9 (.833) last year and finishing 11th in the NCAA tourney, Hynes has com­piled a 33-6 mark this year. 
Surprising A uriol have been sophomore Kristin Kralicek and freshman Anne Barreda. · After missing meet action last year, Kralicek has risen to lead the Irish with 33 wins against only six losses. As a rookie, Barreda is tied for second on the team with a 31-7 record. To assist the young fenc­ers, A uriol is endowed with a strong supporting cast, including 

senior captain Cindy Weeks (25-9) · and senior Vittoria Quaroni (27-4). 
Junior M.J. Sully also contributes 
a 14-1 mark and sophomore 
Brenda Leiser boasts a 26-7 
record. 
While the Notre Dame women's 

fencing team has achieved the . respect of the fencing community, a dedicated squad from Saint Mary's is trying to recapture some of the respect it had last year when 
the Belles wound up fifth in the 
country in the NAIA competetion. 
As with many small programs, 

Saint Mary's was forced to scale 
down the Belles fencing program 
this year for financial reasons. 
Initially, the administration sought 
to eliminate fencing completely.· 
DeCicco, however, stepped in and 
encouraged the continuance of the 
program at a club level. 
"Coach Decicco decided that we would have fencing at Saint Mary's," senior captain Ann Raney said. "As a result nothing has changed. We're doing the exact same thing as last year." 
Without a coach, the Belles count on Auriol .for evening coaching twice a week in what the team refers to as "the Notre Dame Academy." The Belles also suit up and fence with the Irish women every afternoon. As a result, the Belles are working hard to expand a dedicated novice program and replenish four lost starters from last year's squad. 
As the only experienced fencer 

in the program coming -into the 
season, Raney leads the Belles 
with a 47-21 mark. Novices Chris 
DiDonato, Lisa Lavelle and Bryn 
Haugh also lend support to a sal­
vaged program which has achieved 
six wins in 15 outings against the 
top teams in the East and Midwest. 
"We're facing some tough com-. 
petition, and we're doing . really 
well," Raney said, II 
Sports 

Engineering Success 
By Mike Chmiel 

Fencing coach and former engineer Mike DeCicco has become Notre Dame's winn.ingest coach ever, and also serves as academic advisor for thousands of Irish athletes 

As Dean Smith achieved his 600th win as the coach of the North Carolina basketball team last week, so will 
another "Dean" achieve his 500th win this week. Four tallies away from this presti­gious feat, Irish head fencing coach Mike Decicco can rightfully be labeled as the dean of fencing in the NCAA and the dean of coaches on the Notre Dame campus. 
Decicco will lead his unbeaten squad into some rigorous competi­tion this weekend as the Irish host undefeated Illinois and perennial power Wayne State. The Irish also will face Michigan State, Cleve­land State, Eastern Michigan, Michigan, Case Western Reserve and Michigan-Dearborn. Some­time Saturday afternoon, DeCicco will join the ranks. of collegiate coaches who have withstood the various tests of time to achieve 500 wins for their school. 
"We'll definitely get him that win," junior foilist Yehuda Kovacs said. Recruited by Decicco two years ago, Kovacs was so impressed with the Irish "There's something about this guy coach that he decided to attend that shines," Kovacs said. "You Notre Dame, becoming the first win for him, and it's like winning Jewish athlete ever to do so. for your own!' 


Sports 

DeCicco first came to the University in 1945 when he enrolled as a freshman to pursue a degree in engineering. Initially, he planned to study at Georgia Tech before a cousin returned from South Bend and convinced DeCicco's mother that Georgia Tech would not provide her son with a suitable Catholic environ­ment. The strong-willed Italian mother saw her son depart for Notre Dame in July, 1945. 
"I didn't know where Notre Dame was," Decicco recalled, "and I expected to see Indians sel­ling blankets at the train station; I arrived here on the Fourth of July, 1945, and with the exception of three or four years, I've been here ever since." 
t:· DeCicco entered the University
d'\ j during the World War II years, and 
H at first was disillusioned. "I stayed 
r here exactly four months before I 
\l · packed everything on my desk and 
iJ! was going home. In the summer of !:' 1945, everything was ROTC. There were only 600 civilian stu­dents, and I didn't like it. It wasn't what I thought college was going to be like." 
But DeCicco's mother con­vinced him to return to Notre Dame. Upon his return, he sought out Irish fencing coach Walt Lang­ford and expressed a desire to DeCicco said. 
When he began his fencing career at Notre Dame, the program was depleted by losses to the armed forces and the team had lit­tle equipment. "I came here with more over my shoulder than they 

had," Decicco said. Fencing in all three weapons: foil, epee and sabre, over four years, DeCicco compiled a 63-20 mark. As a junior, he compiled an impressive 29-1 ledger and won a berth in the NCAA Championship tournament. As a foilist, DeCicco's career win~ ning percentage of .918 (45-4) was a Notre Dame record until this year when Kovacs surpassed it. 

fence. The New Jersey native had discovered fencing in Newark in the late 1930s when the United States fencing squad practiced there for the Olympics. "I started fencing in 1939, and I really haven't laid it down since," 

After earning a bachelor's degree in engineering, DeCicco stayed at Notre Dame and earned a masters before he took a job with an engineering firm in New Jersey in 1950. Later that year he married Pauline Romeo, a Saint Mary's iraduate, and within four years, the DeCiccos were back in South Bend as the engineer . returned to the academia to teach. 
"My wife was born and raised in a small West Virginia town, and I don't think she enjoyed living in Newark one minute," DeCicco recalled. "She convinced me that if we . were to stay married, we better come back to South Bend." 
DeCicco returned as an engineering professor and also kept up with fencing as an assis­tant coach to Langford. "I got the total sum of $200 a year as an assistant coach," DeCicco said. "I was doing it out of love. If I ever did it for a salary, I wouldn't do it. 
"Immediately it was a love affair that was destined to succeed. I love fencing. I love Notre Dame. And when you put those two together, it would be unusual for it not to work out right." 
Following the 1961 season, Langford left Notre Dame for the Peace Corps, and · Decicco was named as his replacement. According to DeCicco, Langford, who was 155-35 lifetime, did not know a · great deal about fencing but knew a lot about coaching. "Walt Langford was a great motivator, a great person," DeCicco said. "What he · knows about fencing, you could put on a gnat's fanny. But what I learned from him -you could fill volumes. He exemplified , the very best in what leadership and role model is all about." 
As a rookie coach in . 1962, DeCicco witnessed what was to be his only losing season as a coach, a season where his team won more bouts than it lost (222-183) but lost one more match than it won (7-8). In 1963, however, DeCicco turned· the program around by posting a 14-2 record and 100 more bouts won than lost. 
Scholastic 
:.:,

••,, ,.,, ----: ' ---' --·-·-----· --·~--' .. ., ----·, CO-, ' ,. er:-~--~...'_,•,--'". --·_--·----:----~--:---';.~--~: ",'' ' ' ', ',: ' ~' ' ;-, '.;": •";--;' ·:~,:· (~;: ·, /,,:-f< 
.,,. ' . ~ . -· 

Sports 
lso in 1963, DeCicco took on a new position. "(Executive . Vice President) Father (Edmund) Joyce came to me and told me that he was going· to set up an office to follow the academic progress of student-athletes," DeCicco explained, "and I didn't know 




:;::~~Ptiii!l]l.;~~~ifi~i!~~~!~f~~~iJ: 
}hsto . e var1 est vvins:f<>r their'sch~J[?'>······· 
measured in terms of having helped a guy who's struggling, but he also has helped the top student who ends up in medical school or graduate school or law school. It's a complete program, and it's one that brings great· honor and pride to the University." 
DeCicco gradually relinquished his teaching assignments and con­centrated his efforts on advising and coaching. Since 1962, DeCicco's teams amassed 496 wins against only 40 losses (.925) to rank him as the winningest coach in Notre Dame history. His teams have gone undefeated six times and have won three national championships. The first Irish title came in 1977 when his team compiled a 23-0 mark and won 468 bouts out of 621. The Irish repeated in 1978 and remained undefeated through the 1979 sea­son. In 1979, the Irish finished second in the country. 
After missing a national title by one touch in 1985, the Irish clinched the championship last year with a 16-0 season record and a record number of bouts won (568). This year, the Irish are looking to repeat as national champs under the guidance of DeCicco. 
"He's a very unique person, and his unique qualities help the team," Irish foil captain Charles Higgs-Coulthard said. "He really looks out for everyone. He's able to motivate the fencers. This year, that's been very important because we did lose a lot of quality f enc­ers, and he's been able to rally the team so that we come out doing 
. . .. , 
fairly well against anyone we come up against." 
"I think he's the greatest guy I've met in my life," defending NCAA champion Molly Sullivan said of the man who brought women's fencing to Notre Dame. "He takes control of things, and he's really well respected." 
DeCicco's longevity at · Notre Dame combined with his success has afforded him much admiration and respect both in and out of the gym. "He's been here for so long that you just have to trust in what he knows," Irish sabre captain Kevin Stoutermire explained. "He's very confident, wise and smart. He brings out the true idea of what a team is." 
DeCicco, who has coached American fencers_in Spain, Russia and Italy, says he still would like to see an American success at an iDternational level. "In my 30 or more years of fencing, I have yet to ;;ee one fencer step up to the winrer's platform and have the United States national anthem played as a result of -winning a gold medal," DeCicco said. "I hope I'in around when that hap­pens." Ill 



Sports 

Weathering The Storm 
By Larry Burke 
Injuries, defections and defeats have made for a difficult season, ­but the Notre Dame women's basketball program is not in ruins 
Dame In a season that began with But the problems haven't cen­
the Notre men'sLn high expectations, coach Mary tered only around the won-lost basketball office, there's DiStanislao and her ·squad have record. DiStani;;lad' has lost two

plenty to be happy about. had to face all kinds of adversity. players for the season with inju­
The team is coming off wins over The wins h_aven't come as easily or ries, while three players, including Duke and Wagner and with a 15-7 as they senior captain Lavetta Willis, quitrecord, there's talk of an NCAA as often used to. Last year's team ·was 23-8 and finished the team in the first si:li weeks oftournament bid. But a few doors ·third in the Women's NIT. This the season. The personnel turnoverdown the hall it's a different story. 

season's squad dropped to 6-15 left DiStanislao with only sevenFor the Irish women's basketball scholarship players and forced her. 
' 
. . 
DiStanlslao has stressed teamwork and told her players to concentrate on the fundamentals. 
Scholastic 
~ 
Sports 

than she had planned. 
The problems actually started before the season began, when sophomore guard Lisa Kuhns suf­f erect a serious knee injury that required surgery and sidelined her for the season. For a team that had lost two starters, Trena Keys and Lynn Ebben, to graduation, the loss of Kuhns' outside shooting touch hurt. "We had counted on Lisa a great deal to provide our outside firepower," DiStanislao said. Now it is questionable whether or not Kuhns will be able to play next season. 
Most recently, on January 26, 

reserve center Beth Morrison went 
down with a severe knee injury in 
practice. Now she is on crutches -and may never play agairi. 
"If you look back on it, I guess it was even worthy of mention in the press release, the number of mJuries that have nagged us through the season," DiStanislao said, "It's been a problem, and one negative situation has fed the next. Injuries. Defeat. Defection. It's been a real test for us. I think we're all handling it in our own way, and some of us haven't han­dled it the best. But we're learning how to handle it better. 
"There have been a lot of things that have weighed on the minds of everyone on this team. First of all the schedule was a dif­ficult schedule,· period. The schedule ~as a difficult schedule for anyone." 
Of Notre Dame's 15 losses, seven have come to nationally ranked teams, including top­ranked Texas, No. 2 Rutgers and No. 7 Tennessee. Five losses have come in the game's final seconds. 
"It was hard for (the players)," DiStanislao said. "It was hard los­ing the games that we've lost. It was hard for them losing to teams that have proven to be winning teams, top-ranked teams, know­ing, in looking back over the tapes, that there were things that we did during the course of those games that could have helped us to win those games if we had done them better or done them dif­ferently. It was hard with the kids quitting. But losing situations bring out weaknesses in people before they bring out strengths." 

Willis' decision to leave the team came as a surprise, The squad's only senior, Willis started in the November 29 season opener against Rutgers but announced on December 4 that she was quitting the team. That announcement came right before the Irish were scheduled to depart for the Texas Classic in Austin. Willis reportedly was upset that her picture did not appear on the cover of the team's media guide, which was not distri­buted until after the Rutgers game. 
"The team had lost two seniors 
in Trena Keys and Lynn Ebben," noted Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac. "And the only retur­ing senior was Lavetta. So when she left it took away the team's senior leadership. That means the younger girls will have to rally and find themselves as a team." 
The Willis situation, along with big losses to Texas (84-59) and Colorado (76-53), got the season off on the wrong foot. The team won two of its next three games at home, but narrow losses to Oklahoma and Montana in the Seattle Times Classic, along with an overtime loss to UCLA, left the Irish at 3-7 when they returned to the ACC on January IO to face Maryland. They were blown out in that game, 69-48, and dropped four of their next five to fall to 4-12. 
But the Irish lost more than just three games in the first two weeks of January; they also lost two more players. The next to leave was Julie Garske, a freshman from Amherst, Wisconsin, who said she quit because her playing time was insufficient. Yet Garske, who transferred to Wisconsin, averaged 
17.6 minutes played in her first nine games -fifth highest on the team and tops among the fresh­men. 
"I think there's a lot of reasons (why Garske left)," DiStanislao said. "She said that she didn't play enough. I think she wanted to be a starter, which is fine, but that doesn't come right away. I think that she was a little bit homesick, she really didn't feel that she fit in, and in her mind the benefits of having stayed and graduated and gone through four years at Notre Dame did not outweigh her lack of comfort right now, and so she chose to leave." 
Kathy Brommeland, a junior forward who played in eight of the team's first 12 games, was the third player to call it quits. She announced her decision on Janu­ary 14, the day after the Irish dropped an 81-71 decision at Northern Illinois. 
"I think Kathy Brommeland is an emotional person," said DiStan-islao. "And I think she's _been torn for a while with the intensity and degree of commitment that a per-. son needs to give to a Division-I basketball situation. And I think she took a look at herself and said that she didn't want to give it. It wasn't giving her the amount of satisfaction that she felt other things could give her. And I think it was something that wore at her, or wore her down, but she decided to leave the team. 




"I think people got down because they saw their teammates leaving. And the natural reaction of everyone is a negative one. Well, I think it was a snowball effect. The kids didn't want to see · Lavetta leave. They didn't want to see Julie Garske leave. They didn't want to s~e Brommeland leave. But as it turned out, it was for the better. Now the only peo­ple we have on the team are people who want · to be there, people whose hearts and souls are in it." 
Several of those remaining players are having fine seasons. Sophomore Heidi Bunek, the team's leading scorer, has averaged 
19.6 points per· game in her last five outings, · and has scored in double figures in 13 of her last 15 contests. She· is averaging 14.6 points and 8.5 rebounds per game. 
Junior Mary Gavin has esta­blished herself as one of the nation's premier point guards. Her career total of 474 assists is a school record. Other players like junior Sandy Botham and sopho­more Diandra Toney have been solid performers all season, while freshmen Annie Schwartz and Cathy Emigholz have stepped in and contributed. Because the nucleus of the team is talented and young, DiStanislao believes that the program will endure. 
"I think in terms of the scope of the program, we're not a pro­gram in its infancy anymore, we're a program in its puberty right now," she said. "And you're going to have turmoil. Wherever 
there are human beings there's going to be human nature. And I think that you're going to have times. when Murphy's Law is going to prevail. 
"I don't think it means much in the scope of the program. I think if anything, the kids that return next year are going to have this year to look back upon and to make decisions about. And I hope good decisions, based on the experience that they had this year. I hope that's only going to make the program stronger." 
According to Boulac, the Notre Dame athletic department. agrees with DiStanislao's assessment. "We're disappointed in the team's won-lost record, but not in the progress made. or the enthusiasm ~hown by the girls on the team," he said. "Last year we were very pleased and anticipated, like everyone else, that the program would take off from last year. It's difficult when you're not as suc­cessful as you'd like to be, and the team has had some problems, but they're overcoming them. 
"Mary DiStanislao has been at the helm throughout the growth period. She's had three 20-win sea­sons. She's a good, solid competi­tor and she's been successful more often than not. She has weathered the storm well, and hopefully she will continue to do so. How: far she can take us depends on the next season's recr'uits." 

26  Scholastic  
~---­------------~----~.--------~ -tJ -•~-~---­ ~ p  '  - ,  1 ,  ~  '  -~  1' J,' I  

Scoreboard 
.. A•ro~~Jup•_·-~r.tii~:week._iusports·• 
. F~.bruary 9-:J!ebruar\15. 
j\': 1.E.?~,~~.!~i:~i.,(.Jorda.nich. 

Strong Outing For Sprinters 
INDOOR TRACK -Last weekend's Central Collegiate Conference meet turned out to be another good outing for the Irish sprinters. 
TIM BROWN, Notre Dame's 1987 Hcis­man Trophy candidate, ran his fastest 300­yard dash ever with a time of :30.39 that earned him a second place finish. Brown also finished sixth in the 60-mctcr dash. 
Coach JOE PIANE'S Irish travel to Bloom­ington, IN on Friday for the Indiana Intcrcol­lcgiate Championships. Last year Notre Dame finished third in the event. 
HOCKEY -Following last weekend's 9-I loss and 4-4 tic at Michigan-Dearborn, the Irish will be on the road again as they visit Lake Forest this Friday and Saturday. Notre Dame needs a sweep to have a chance for the ACHA title. 
Against Michigan-Dearborn, coach LEFTY SMITH received a strong perfor­mance in the second game after Friday's blowout. MIKE McNEILL scored twice while.BRUCE GUAY and MATT HANZEL added goals in the 4-4 tic. 
"We played much better Saturday," said Smith. "We could have won it, but giving up shorthanded goals really hurt us. We just have to play Lake Forest tough. They are a young club and they arc doing very well.'' 
WRESTLING -The Irish, devastated by injuries, host their final home meet of the season when Indiana comes to the ACC on Sunday. 
Freshman ANDY RADENBAUGH broke his leg in last Friday's _match against Michi­gan, finishing his first season at · I 9-9-1. Scholastic athlete of the week PAT BOYD also suffcrccla season ending shoulder injury in the ma.tch. 
The Irish (1-9) lost to the Wolverines 39-7. Boyd and junior RON WISNIEWSKI (17-1 I) were the Ione winners for Notre Dame. · 
MEN'S SWIMMING -By beating Illinois­
Chicago and Valparaiso last week, the Irish 
finished their regular season at I 0-4. 
"Finishing the season on a winning note is always important," said coach TIM WELSH. "It has a psychological effect on the swim­mers and builds their confidence before the championship meets. We kept our momentum 
and won all four of our February meets. Fin­ishing so strong helps us prepare for the ·Midwest Invitational." 
Top swimmers for Notre Dame last week were co-captain CHRIS WALSH and diver ED VEOME. Freshman DA VE THOMAN won the 50-yard freestyle and 200-yard backstroke events against Valparaiso. 
After two weeks off, the Irish will take part in the Midwest Invitational Thursday Saturday, March 5-7. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AMY 
DARLINGTON'S three first place finishes and a second-place finish by senior SUZANNE DeVINE paced the women to 121-88 drubbing of Illinois-Chicago last Tuesday. 
Last Saturday the Irish beat Valparaiso 65-48 behind strong performances from seniors P.J. AMBERG, MAUREEN FITZGERALD, KAREN KRAMER, MON­ICA WALKER, and De Vine, who posted a personal best in the 50-yard freestyle. 
Th¢ Midwest Independent Championships will be hosted by the Irish in the Rolfs Aquatic Center Feb. 26-28. Notre Dame will enter the competition with a record of 7-7. 
MEN'S TENNIS -The 4-1 Irish, still hin­dered by injuries, will play Northern Illinois on Friday at home. Toledo, Southern Illinois, and Iowa visit on Saturday and Sunday for the annual Irish Quadrangular match. 
Despite nagging injuries, TONY CAHILL, BRIAN KALBAS, and PAUL DAGGS were instrumental in last weekend's victories over Marquette, Bradley, and Wisconsin-Oshkosh. Notre Dame beat all three teams by identical 9-0 scores. 
SMC BASKETBALL -Saint Mary's sent their record to 12-5 last Saturday with a 54-45 win against Grace College. 
Purdue-Calumet visits the Angela Athletic Facility tonight in a pivotal matchup for coach MARVIN WOOD'S Belles. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL -The Irish are in the stretch run of the I 986-I 987 season and have their eyes on a possible NCAA tournament bid. After Saturday's away game at Utah, Notre Dame returns home to face_ yet another highly ranked opponent at the ACC, DePaul. 
The resurgent play of senior co-captain SCOTT HICKS and the devlopmcnt of fresh­men JOE FREDRICK and SCOTT PAD­DOCK have been the bright spots in the last week. 
Coach DIGGER PHELPS hopes to have sophomore SEAN CONNOR back from his ankle injury for the DePaul game. Connor leads the Irish in three-point field goals this year. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
PAT BOYD 
Boyd, a sophomore · 
wrestler from Mt · 
Pleasant, MI, 

separated his shoulder 
in the first period of 
his match last ·Friday 
against Michigan. 
Boyd finished the 
match with the injury 


and beat his opponent, but will probably have to sit out the remainder of the season. His 27 individual wins leads the Irish and comes after a 20-I 6 mark last year as a freshman. Boyd came to Notre Dame after a spectacular high school wrestling career in which he compiled a four year record of I 68-I. 
VITTORIA QUARON1:· 
One of two senior women's fencers (along with Cindy Weeks), Quaroni ranks fourth on Notre Dame's career win list, with I I I victories.[> The Shore Hills, NJ('.;~ native has seen the\:c.i .• Irish program become an undefeated national power over the last two seasons. "I think Yves (:"-_uriol, women's coach) has developed a trad1twn at Notre Dame," said Quaroni, who owns a 27-4 record this season. "Cindy and I have seen the program develop, and I am proud to be a part of this team. Last year's finals were a big thrill, and J think this year's will be just as exciting because we have a chance to win it all." 

Paid Advertisement 
~********************************************************~ 
An Open Letter To The Board Of Trustees 
HALL PR.a1.DENTS' COUNCU. 
laFDriw ,r.t,,da:nt ~ Noke Dame, Vf 41551 
To: The Notre Da.me Board ofT.rustees 
From: The Ha.ll Presidents Council 
Date: January 30. 1987 

Re: The Conversion ·or Hova..rd Ha.11 
We are sending you a copy of the enclosed letter to Fr. David Tyson because of your instrumental .role in deciding to increase the numbe.r of women at Notre Dame. We strongly agree that increasing the ratio of women to men at Notre Dame will be a significa.nt and much needed improvement in foste.ring healthie.r relationships between men and women here. 
However. we believe that the way these changes are being implemented will be det.rimenta.1 when the transition could be handled in a ma.nne.r mo.re beneficial to all involved. The most significant factor is the time element. The time given for the conversion process is simply inadequate. There a.re also other factors. such as brother-sister dorm communities and the location of the dorms. which ve believe should be given further consideration in choosing the men's dorm to be converted. We further explain these issues and the way the situation has been handled thus far in the !ette.r to Fr. Tyson. We then make several suggestions for alternate plans in the _proposal. 
We-hope you wilJ seriously and carefully consider our concerns and suggestions and. if so inclined. communicate your thoughts on the situation to F.r. Tyson. Again. we are writing to you because of your instrumental .role lhus far in lhe admission of more vomen to Notre Dame. 
Thant. you for your time and consideration. 
~********************************************************~ 
Scholastic 
Paid Advertisement 

/;********************************************************= 
H Pl"ssu£ents· Cuu.nciL 
l.af1nwna I~CsniK Nut.nz Da.rna, 1.N 41551 
January 30.1987 
Rev. I>a.vid T. Tyson. CSC Vice President, Student Affairs 3f> Administration Building Notre Dame, IN 46~~ 
Dear Fr. Tyson: 

We a.re writing to discuss the issue of the conversion of Howard Hall to a vome.n 's ­dorm. We wholeheartedly agree that the ratio of women to men should be increased and that the ovenJJ enrollment should .remain constant. However. we vould like to discuss the lac.k of student input in the selection of Howard Hall as the men ·s do.rm to be converted. and the way in which this decision was implemented. 
Student input on this decision would have emphasized sevenJ major factors which we believe we.re not fully considered. These include: the community of brother-sister dorms. the location of women's dorms with .respect to men's dorms. and the timing of the decision. Within the residential community of ND. there is a brother-sister dorm relationship which fosters interaction with one another on a .regular basis. As far as the location of the .nev-womc.n 's dorms. we question whether the University vants to establish a "female quad" vhich will consist of the Pasque.rillas. BP. Farley and the two new women's dorms. A possible solution is making one of the .nev dorms a men ·s dorms. In the enclosed proposal. we detail sevenl possible alter.natives vhich. we believe. take into account these facto.rs. 
We believe the major issue is the manner in which this decision was implemented. which displayed a lac.It of respect for the How&rd Hall community. We feel that little .respect vas shown for Fr. Gene Go.rs.ti. the .rector of Howard Hall for the past seventeen years. by .notifying him of the decision only hours before the announcement was made public. Little .respect was shown for the Howard Hall students by: 
1. 
Sending Jette.rs to Notre Dame women an.noun cing that Hovard Hall vould be available for female occupancy next fall on the same day that Howard Hall .residentsve.re .notified of the forthcoming conversion. 

2. 
Notifying the .residents one vee.t before finals. This obviously caused 


~********************************************************: 
Paid Advertisement 

;********************************************************* 
2 

undue stress at a ti.me of the year which is already difficult. 
3. Allowing the residents of Howard Hall less than three wee.ks -including finals week -to make the .necessary decisions and arrangements to provide for alternate housing for next year. This time factor presented even more difficulties for those Howard residents going to Lo.ndo.n this spring and for those residents who had hoped to be an RA in Howard next year. Notifying residents at this point in the year provides few options as most off-campus houses are already leased for the following year by the end of October. 
Yet we feel the most frustrating part of this is that much of the confusion, anger and 
antagonism resulting from the way i.n which this was hand.led could easily have been 
avoided. 

Dorm life is unique at Notre Dame and since students stay in one dorm for four years, 
close attachments are made. It is this feeling of closeness which creates the sense of 
community that brings a certain character to residentiaUife at Notre Dame. We feel 
that little co.ncer.n was given to the community of Howard Hall. It is unfair a.nd 
unrealistic to expect a community of men who have lived-together for several years 
to disregard the friendships they· have established and the sense of community they 
share and to scatter all over cam.pus. 
We are concerned about campus life and the residential quality of Notre Dame. 
Progress .needs to be made to increase the presence ofwome.n at ND. We are i.n full 
agreeement with increasing the number ofwomen admitted. However, we believe 
changes canlliunade i.n such a way that the transition will enhance residential life 
rather than disrupt it. This is why we wanted to express our concerns to you. We 
look forward to discussing this situation with you. 
Sincerely, 
)J.-. -L /3. o-c~--­
9.:;:~f~ 
sheila B. o·eonner Co-Chairperson Co-Chairperson Hall Presidents Council Hall Presidents Council 
cc: The Not.re Dame Board ofTrustees 
~********************************************************= 
30 


Paid Advertisement 

********************************************************* 
KA.LL PRnUtt.Nn· COUNCU. 
.Le.f~I~~ Novs Dams, \N 4-1551 
PROPOSAL 
Aswe understand it. the overall plan for increasing the number of women students by sii hundred includes : the ope.ni.ng of the two new vome.n's dorms, the co.nve.rsio.n of Carroll Hall into a graduate men's dorm. the closing of Holy Cross H&ll &nd the co.nversio.n of a me.n's do.rm into a women's dorm. We a.re proposing that the conversion of a men's dorm be moved to the last step of this overall pla.n in order to allov ample time for the co.nversio.n process. We also believe that more emphasis should be placed on brother-sister dorm communities and the resulting groupings of women's do.rms. We see seve.re.1 possible ways of acheiving these goals. · 
,• 


Follov the current plan. vith two exceptions. 1) Make the co.nversio.n of a me.n's dorm the last step -as oppossed to the first step -in the overall process. Z)Further consider the facto.rs of brother-sister communities a.nd the imbalance of the groupings ofwomen's dorms which will result from the current plan. a.nd then decide upon which me.n's dorm should be converted. 

Make o.ne of the .nev dorms a me.n's dorm a.nd then convert a larger me.n's dorm. or two sm&ller men's dorms. into women·s dorms. allowing ample time for the co.nversio.n process.· This would c.reate two or three additional brother-sister do.rm communities a.nd "Would greatly improve the distribution ofwomen's dorms with .respect to .me.n's dorms. 
Utilize &11 of the dorms which are being closed or converted -Carroll. Holy Cross. Howard and/or an alternate dorm -to move residents from a dorm lb.at is being closed or converted into these other dorms i.n groups. This would allov the residents of these dorms to maintain some sense of community. 
While implementation of this proposal would cause the overaU process to be delayed by one year, we believe the benefits of further consideration of these proposals vould far outweigh aa.y negative effects caused by the dela.y. 
*********************************************************~ 




Look, Mom! 
Junior Parents' Weekend is a special opportunity for students to share their independence with Mom and Dad, and to show them off 
By Dan Bender 

Ijust talked to my parents. The conversation was the usual exchange of informa­tion. I tell them I came home early last night and they tell me I'm overdrawn on my checking account. We talk about the home­town news and then say goodbye. The call is truly long distance. Something has changed about the way my parents and I communi­cate. 
Oh, I still love my parents. Nonetheless, something in my relationship with them has changed.:Most students go, through the same type of experience. Let me describe it briefly. 
This sneaky little change begins as an innocent freshman. Remember packing your entire world into your family car as you prepared to leave for college? You took pictures of friends, family, the dog, the house, everything imaginable. You threw all your memories into a box and dragged it off to college. Your mom asked if you were g-oing to get homesick, and you answered no, trying to keep from laughfog at the stupi­dity of the question. 
You drove onto campus. Your parents helped you haul your life into your new room. You unpacked a few things, met your roommates, said. goodbye to your parents and college began. Ta da, nothing to it. This college stuff was a piece of cake. 

This briefly describes all of us, 
. to an extent, as freshmen. Did you catch the part where your atti­tude about your parents changed? It happened in the second line of the last paragraph -the part where your parents leave to go home. They take the family car home, empty, leaving you behind. Not really a big part of college life, but their leaving is stuffed with sym­bolism. 
Our parents are the center of the universe for about the first 18 years of our lives. They know all our friends, our teachers, our 

coaches, where we go after school, and what we do. In college, we develop, we learn and we make friends all on our own. We build a new world that no longer centers on the parental unit, a life that might as well be in another galaxy. After college begins we are stuck with two sets of friends, two rooms, two everythings, but one set of parents. This one set of parents have yet to make their official appearance in our attempt at life in the Milky Way until it's time for Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Junior Parents' Weekend enhances our new universe a mil­lion times. During JPW everyone gets a chance to show off their parents. They ineet the friends you've hung out with for the last three years. They visit the places that you go to: They meet your professors, your rectors and rec­tresses. They hang out for a night in the dorm and check out the party scene. They look at you with an immense amount of pride, and you look back at them with a thousand times more. You say to yourself "I am a lot like them," and they say, "He's a lot like us." 
In just three days your parents have managed to reenter your new world. But it doesn't stop when the weekend's over, for JPW never ends. Whenever you talk to your parents certain phrases will always enter the conversation, like "Yes, I met him and his parents at JPW," and "Oh I remember seeing that at Junior Parents' Weekend," and "I'm looking forward to seeing his or her parents again." And every­time your parents come to campus, you relive the whole thing again. 
So is that all there is to Junior Parents' Weekend? 
No, actually, there's a lot more. The Friday night cocktail dance, the Saturday afternoon Mass, the Saturday night president's dinner and hall parties, and the Sunday morning brunch are the major events. These events are a lot of fun in themselves, but it's showing off your parents that really makes Junior Parents' Weekend special. II 


32 


Life In Hell 

liot41#b%8fW.fMRii1fl\WW¾Wffi-1AA~D@@,l~it#$1#k..ffif:\fflffli&t&P¥iiM»WW&§Yit?l@M!@i¥iiMWffl9t&iffl fM¥MtffiittdtWJ¥MlfiMi-iilt4WGi4¥4MiWMi 


ALL RISE. FOi<. 1\-1.E. MOR~ING FL.AG SALUTE.. 

> 3,.
..,.
., 
c
.,
,.
.. 
er.
... 
:, 
Q.
;;· 
,. ~ 
Re.Pv e,l...l C. At-..JS: 
f.o e_ v,H·\.lC rl. 1H.E.l:'.J SCArv\ -­

--ONE. I\JP-.C.140, U"-.lD E..R PANIS, WlT\-\ LICORlC.E ArJo JUGS OF 










