UI nOTQE OTIC
scmoustic
urn cwus ncuus mo^zinE
JUDGE JOHN W. EGGEMAN
Requiescat in Pace
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
OLD TIMERS HERE TOMORROW JUDGE JOHN EGGEMAN DEAD U. THEATER PLAYS CONSIDERED INTERHALL DEBATING STARTS
NORTHWESTERN PRE-VIEWED WILDCAT SCRIBE'S STORY BASKETBALL PRACTICE "B" TEAM GAME
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS INTRODUCING
ON DOWN THE LINE
NOVEMBER 20,1936
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
HALF A HALF MAKES
OHE SatfLL SMDKE!
FOR PIPE OR CIGARETTE
Half & Half is a safe combination for any pipe. Cool as a bank-teller scanning your ten-spot. Sweet as his look that means it’s okay. Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!
Not a bit of bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which gets smaller and smaller as you use-up the tobacco. No bitten fingers as you reach for a load, even the last one.
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Co.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
November 20, 1936
No. 8
LAST PEP SESSION
OF SEASON SET FOR TONIGHT
•
With the band leading the way, thousands of marching feet will troop to the gymnasium immediately after supper tonight for the final pep session of the year in preparation for the Northwestern game tomorrow.
Extensive plans have been made for this huge rally, and Philip Bondi, president of the S.A.C., made a plea late this afternoon for full student co-operation to make this the most enthusiastic meeting of the year. Prominent speakers have been selected to appear.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will be the first speaker of the evening, and will welcome the guests in behalf of the University. An eminent speaker, Father O’Donnell has been a frequent “star” feature at pep sessions.	.
One of the most interesting guest speakers will be that perennial midwestern favorite, Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, who will be remembered as toastmaster of last year’s football banquet. Brown has always been in demand at pep sessions. He spoke at Northwestern university on the eve of the Minnesota game.
Timothy Gallivan, former Notre Dame football player and former president of the Alumni association, will again address a pep meeting. Mr. Gallivan, now a Hammond, Indiana attorney, has been noted for his excellent talks of this nature.
The program will be concluded by a talk by Elmer Layden, head football coach and director of athletics, who invariably begins his brief speeches with “This reminds me of a story.” Layden, it is hoped, will make some prediction concerning the outcome of tomorrow’s game.
The musical portion of the program is in charge of Professor Jo. seph Casasanta, who will lead in the. playing and singing of the school songs. Walter Nienaber, head cheerleader, will lead the cheers.
SECOND "OLD-TIMERS” REUNION SCHEDULED FOR THIS WEEK-END; MONOGRAM MEN FROM 1900 TO 1905 HONORED
By Harold A. Williams
At the Northwestern-Notre Dame game tomorrow the “Old Timers” of Notre Dame will gather as part of their annual reunion. This year “Old Timers” feature the members of the classes from “1900 to 1905.” The arrangements are in charge of Daniel J. O’Connor, of Chicago, Hl. .
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Speaks at Pep Session Tonight
Rhode Islanders Plan Group Communion
•
The Communion breakfast which was planned by the Rhode Island club for last Sunday morning has been postponed until Sunday, November 29. The Army trip was the main cause of this as many of the members went on the trip. The forthcoming breakfast' will be attended by Rev. Thomas Duffy, C.S.C., of South Bend.
A Christmas dance has been arranged to take place on December 26 at the Biltmore Hotel in Providence. It was through the extensive cooperation of the alumni that the dance was arranged so favorably.
The “Old Timers” will arrive on the campus this afternoon, and after registration in the Alumni Office will make a tour of the campus. Immediately after a private dinner they will be special guests at the pep rally. Several members of the group are scheduled to make short speeches. Later on in the evening they will be the guests of the St. Joseph Valley Club of the Notre Dame Alumni Association at the pre-game smoker at the Jefferson Plaza.
Saturday afternoon they will be guests of the Notre Dame Athletic Association for the Northwestern -Notre Dame game. Following the game they will participate in another private dinner.
Many prominent “Old Timers” are expected. The most prominent of them, the greatest of Notre Dame football players in the 1900’s, will be the famous fullback, “Red” Salmon.
The reunion of the “Old-Timers” was started last year through the efforts of Judge John Eggeman. Arrangements were made by Mr. James Armstrong, alumni secretary. The reunion was held over the week-end of the Southern California - Notre Dame football game in 1935.
Cardinal Sends Blessing
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., received this week a portrait of His Eminence Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, with the following inscription:
“To Very Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame University, in happy remembrance of my visit and with a blessing for all the members of the community, the trustees and faculty, and students.”
Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli. Nov. 1, 1936,
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
SIX WIDELY VARIED PLAYS ARE CONSIDERED FOR PRODUCTION BY THEATER GROUP;
CALL FOR CANDIDATES SOON
■	By Richard Riley
Six plays are now being considered by the University authorities for production by the University Theater group, Professor Doyle, director of theatrical productions, announced early this week. Plays of both modern and classical types are among the group undfer consideration.
The call for candidates for the University Theater, which will appear in all the halls within the next few days, will stress the fact that the parts are open to everyone . Anyone who has any desire to take part in such a production, either as an actor or as a theatrical manager should attend this meeting. Rehearsals will begin immediately after the selection of a play.
Although the time is rather short, Professor A. L. Doyle expressed the hope that a dramatic production could be put on before the Christmas holidays. If this should prove impossible, the play will appear as soon as possible after the students return on January 5.
Graduation Leaves Openings
Several men who played important parts in plays last year have been graduated, offering further opportunity to students now in school. Last year the university theater attempted three plays of widely different types. “The World Waits,” depicting the life and trials of an Antarctic expedition, was especially well received by the student body.
Shakespeare’s “Comedy of Errors” was played in Washington Hall during the middle of the second semester’ with considerable success. Feminine roles were played by students after the original Shakespearean tradition.
- The annual Commencement play was also produced by the University theater before a capacity crowd in Washington Hall. A .
Several Veterans Left
Of the group of men who last year took part in the dramatic productions, a sufficient number have returned to form the nucleus of this year’s university theater. Among the men who will be available this year are John Brassell, Maurice Quinn, Jack Scott, Frank Carroll, and Bob Siegfried.
It is hoped that the turnout for this dramatic group will be especially large and that the students will support it as they have in former years.
Henry Ford the second, grandson of the automobile manufacturer, is now a freshman at Yale.
McCORMACK TO SING IN SOUTH BEND
NOVEMBER 30
John McCormack, world famous Irish operatic and lyric tenor, will present a concert at the Palace Theatre, South Bend, Monday Nov. 30. His appearance here is the second of the six famous singers and composers
John McCormack
Laetare Medalist on Concert Tour
who are scheduled to make concert appearances in South Bend this season. Fritz Kreisler, renown Austrian violinist played before a large audience Nov. 2.
Mr. McCormack was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1933 on the merit of his excellent singing and the great good he has done by his exemplary Christian life and his wide charities.
He was born in Athlone, Ireland, June 14, 1884, and was educated at Summer Hill College, County Sligo, Ireland. He studied voice with Signor Sabatini in Milan. In 1904, he won first prize in the Dublin music festival, returning to Milan for. two more years of study before his London debut Oct. 15, 1907, as “Turriddo” in the opera “Cavaleria Rusticana.” He had sung previously in the Marlbor-(Continued on Page 21)
SECOND 'CATALYZER* PRESENTS NEW
MATERIAL
•
The November edition of The Catalyzer, the second of this year, was published on Wednesday, Nov. 18. Editor Frank Burke and the staff, in their second production, have edited a magazine which, if possible, surpasses the first edition from the viewpoint of completeness and general interest. This month’s Catalyzer combines the good features of the last issue with an enlarged section of personals.
The feature article, written by W. D. Forgeng, Ph.D., is “The Use of the Microscope in Chemistry.” Dr. Forgeng, who received his degree from Cornell University in 1934, stresses the fact that chemical microscopy is of value to the micrescopist because it yields direct and vivid observations, positive conclusions, and results which are often unobtainable by other methods. He emphasizes, however, that the microscope is not an automatic or self-sufficient instrument, but an accessory to the eye and brain of the investigator.
Ari excerpt from the minutes of the National Council of “The American Institute of Chemists, Inc.,” states the resolution which was adapted to honor the memory of their beloved and valuable associate, Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., of Notre Dame.
A very interesting editorial, entitled “Row, Brothers, Row; The Stream Runs Fast,” has to do with the utilization and appreciation of a university education. The very apt title, adapted from the words of an old voyageurs’ song of the days of Lewis and Clark, gives a graphic picture of the keen competition which faces a young man in life.
An article “New Antiseptics” describes the new type of antiseptics which is being developed. Their germ killing power can be understood when it is explained that one part of these antiseptics in 15,000 to 30,000 parts of water kills test cultures of the germs that cause boils. In another article a new method for bottling milk is explained. By this new method milk can be kept fresh for as long as six weeks.
Laud Ex-N.D. Man
John W. Larson of Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, a former student at the University, is a member of the Kappa Chapter of Beta Theta Pi fraternity at Brown university which had the highest scholastic average of any national fraternity’s chapter at Brown last year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
INTERHALL DEBATING SEASON STARTS AS THREE AFFIRMATIVE TEAMS WIN OPENING CLASHES
By Graham Starr
Three affirmative teams—those of Howard, Sorin, and Morrissey—beat their opponents in the first three interhall debates of the year, this week.
The Howard team, composed of Charles T. Brosius, of Lime Kiln, Md.; John R. Tobin, of Elgin, Ill.; and William P. Mahoney, of Winslow, Ariz.; won over Walsh Hall in the first de-bate, at 8:00 p.m. on Nov. 16 in the court room of the Law Building. The judge was Dr. Francis E. McMahon, instructor of philosophy.
The question, chosen by the Wranglers, sponsors of the interhall competition, is:
“Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
On Tuesday evening in the courtroom, the second clash was judged by Mr. Earl F. Langwell, assistant professor of French and Latin. The Brownson-Carroll negative was defeated by the Sorin affirmative team consisting of Redman Duggan, Carl Doozan, of Saginaw, Mich., and John F. McNeill, of Ridgewood, • N. J.
The contest is operating on the elimination and bracket system, except that to be eliminated a team must be defeated twice.
The Morrissey-Badin debate in the recreation room of the Law Building, also on Tuesday night, was won by the Morrissey affirmatives. The team was made up of John F. Wintermey-er, Maurice Murphy, of Sumner, la., and Thomas Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio. The Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., associate professor of history, was judge.
George Morris, of Detroit, Mich., general chairman of all the debates, stated that there is a high interest in the activity this year.
Some of the more important points on which the debaters are graded are: analysis of question, delivery, rebuttal and refutation, effectiveness, and audience contact.
Sometime before Christmas the final debate to decide the interhall championship will be held at St. Mary’s College.
Paul Costner To Speak
Gene Ling, president of the Cleveland club, has announced the plans for a smoker, to be held on Tuesday, Nov. 24. Paul Castner, former All-American football player who was on the Notre Dame team in 1921 and ’22, will speak at the meeting.
PHYSICS BOLSTERS RELIGIOUS VIEWS HAAS SAYS
Modern developments in physics strengthen rather than weaken the religious sentiments of one interested in physics. This is the opinion of Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of theoretical physics at the University of Notre Dame, who delivered a lecture last night in Washington Hall on the subject, “Does Modern Physics Contradict Religion?”
Dr. Haas declared that recent findings such as the finite size of the universe and the tendencies of the cosmic processes confirmed this belief to anyone who studies physics.
The former University of Vienna professor pointed out that the chief arguments which materialism and atheism raised against religion in the 19th century seem to have lost force through the development of physics in the 20th century. He believes that there are few real scientists in the world today who are conceited enough to feel that they can explain the existence of the universe without admitting the existence of the deity.
Dr. Haas further added:
“A new path from physics to religion seems to open in such a way that physics of itself sees the necessary limits of its own claims. If this is the case, then from the very outset the conclusions of those writers become meaningless, who, in advocating atheistic ideas, revert wrongly to physics.”
The eminent physicist stated that a barrier seems to be set to physical research, that scientists penetrating their studies find that they can go so far and then they have to stop. Thus much remains beyond these limitations which must remain inexplor-able to the scientist.
Later in December Dr. Haas will deliver a talk on, “The Atom and the Universe.” During the second semester he will give a series of lectures on “Philosophical Aspects of Modern Physics.”
JUDGE J. EGGEMAN, FORMER ALUMNI
HEAD. DIES
•
Judge John W. Eggeman, graduate of Notre Dame in 1900 and former president of the alumni association, died in Fort Wayne last Saturday, November 14.
Before his graduation Judge Eggeman played for three years as regular center on the football team. He was also a manager of athletics while he was a student here.
Funeral services were held last Tuesday at 9:30 a. m. in St. Patrick’s Church in Fort Wayne. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was deacon of the Mass. The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the School of Engineering, the Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C., and the Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., a teammate of Judge Eggeman in football, also represented the school at the services. James Armstrong, secretary of the alumni association, represented the school graduates. John Nicholson, track coach, and William Smith, resigned captain of the 1936 football team, represented the athletic department and the Monogram club, of which Judge Eggeman was a member.
Judge Eggeman is survived by his wife and two children. Mrs. Eggeman is a former president of the St. Mary’s Alumnae Association. His son, Robert, was graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1930. His daughter, Mary, was graduated from St. Mary’s Academy. ‘
Throughout his life Judge Eggeman kept a very close contact with the University, and was always interested in promoting alumni affairs. Last year’s Old Timer’s celebration was the result of his idea, and he served as general chairman for the first reunion. His last public appearance at the University was at that time when he spoke briefly at the ceremonies during the Southern California game.
“Judge Eggeman was a loyal and active alumnus,” Alumni Secretary James Armstrong said this week. “The many Old Timers who will be on the campus Saturday will miss him. In fact the idea which Judge Eggeman had in holding annual reunions of early monogram men will be something of a memorial to him.”
Missourians To Dine
According to an announcement made this week by Edward J. Reardon, president of the Missouri Club, the banquet committee has completed plans for a dinner to be-, given at one of the downtown hotels on Dec. 8.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
VILLAGERS TO DANCE TO WALZ’S MUSIC
NEXT THURSDAY
•
Final plans were completed at the monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Villagers for the annual Thanksgiving dance which is to be held at the Columbia Club, Wednesday evening, Nov. 25, at 9:00 p.m.
President Theodore E. Prekowitz announced that Myron Walz and his orchestra has been secured to furnish the music for the dance. Bids are $1.10 a couple, and tickets can be bought from any member of the Villagers or obtained at the door of the Columbia Club the night of the dance.
James Lahey, Commerce 3, was appointed general chairman of the committees by Prekowitz. The committees working under him are: Tickets— Peter Nemeth, Jr., chairman, John Johannas, Charles Feig, James Couch, Abe Zoss; Publicity — John Lechner, chairman, Gene Kochanowski, Lawrence Eby, Edward Minczewski, Robert Wilson; Decorations — Robert Rodibaugh, chairman, Walter Lew-icki, Emil Luckey, William Gibbon, Jr., Joseph Mason.
One of the outstanding events in the social calendar, the Thanksgiving dance, has grown in popularity year after year. In entertainment, the dance promises some outstanding attractions, according to Prekowitz. The large ticket sales indicate that many couples will attend the festivities of the evening.
State Bar President Talks To Lawyers
•
. Attorney Albert H. Cole of Peru, Ind. and president of the Indiana State Bar association was the principal speaker at the Law Club smoker last Thursday evening in the Lay Faculty dining room.
“Practical Problems in Practicing Law,” was Mr. Cole’s topic. He pointed out the numerous problems which confront the young lawyer in his profession and told how these obstacles can be mastered. Mr. Cole praised the law students in their fine showing in the state bar examination. He stated that Notre Dame made a better showing in the examinations than any other Indiana school.
James Osgood, senior lawyer, was appointed chairman of the smoker by President Patrick Fisher. The next meeting of the Law Club will be held Dec. 10. The principal speaker has not'been named. .
Knights Sponsor Saturday Football Dance For Benefit of Gibault Home For Boys
The local council of the Knights of Columbus will sponsor the Northwestern football dance tomorrow evening at the Columbia Athletic Club, formerly the Jefferson Plaza.
Patrick Fisher
The dance will be known as the Victory Dance.
Patrick Fisher, senior lawyer, of Indianapolis, Ind., has been asked to act as chairman of the dance. The music will be furnished by the Notre Dame
Collegians under the capable direction of Frank Barbush. The dance.will begin at 8:30 and continue to 11:30, at which time the Notre Dame Victory March will be played indicating the end of the dance.
The subscription will be one dollar a couple. Tickets may be obtained from any member of the local council of the Knights of Columbus, or may be purchased at the door. The proceeds from this dance will go to the
Prat. Staunton Talks
To Literary Group
•
Prof. Henry C. Staunton, of the English Department, spoke to the Bookmen’s club at their regular meeting last Wednesday evening in the Hurley Hall of Commerce. This was the second appearance of Professor Staunton in speaking to the Bookmen as he spoke to them last year also.
Several new books were considered by the club to be placed on the club’s reading list during the year.
Elect Officers
Bernard Marty, a senior in the College of Science, was elected president of the Pharmacy club at that organization’s first meeting of the year held recently. Marty succeeds Robert Erwin.
Following the election of Francis P. Cosgrove, a junior in the College of Science, to the position of secretary, the pharmacists tentatively arranged a series of meetings and outlined a program for the year.
Gibault Home for Wayward Catholic Boys, in Terre Haute, Ind. This home is under the supervision of the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Gibault Home is an institution for the rehabilitation of Catholic delinquent boys in the problems of respectable Catholic citizenry. They are educated to a degree on a par with a high school education, and are taught trades they may enter after they leave the institution. Chairman Fisher asks all who can possibly attend to do so because of the merits of the cause.
Further Knights of Columbus activities discussed at their Wednesday night meeting, include the initiation of about 30 candidates in the first degree of the order sometime early in December. The first report was made at the last meeting of the Walsh Hall Recreation Room, being conducted for the first time this year under the joint auspices of the Knights and the St. Vincent de Paul Society. The first ten days of activity have proved the hall very popular.	.
PRESS CLUB PLANS TO HEAR THIRD GUEST TALK
Twenty-five members of the Notre
Dame Press club heard Bob McClain, club treasurer, read the financial re
port last Wednesday evening at the club’s bi-weekly business meeting in
the north basement of the library.
President John Cackley presided at the meeting and offered several matters for consideration' by the club members. The chief topic of discussion was the
John Cackley selection of a speaker for the next meeting. The club plans to have another guest speaker some time before Christmas vacation. A commit
tee was appointed to select one from the number suggested.
The renewed interest in the Press club is especially gratifying and President Cackley expressed the hope that other Journalism Majors would join the club this year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
ART EXHIBIT STARTS ON TOUR THROUGH
FIVE STATES
o
This week the Traveling Art Exhibit of the University is on display at the Mishawaka High School. Last week the paintings were on display at the South Bend Central High School, and next week will start touring around the circuit of some 26 high schools and clubs in the five neighboring states.
The purpose of the exhibit is to reveal exactly what can be accomplished in art within four years by students who are getting a liberal education at the same time. Most of the paintings are by students who have had no specialized art training before entering art school. The paintings themselves illustrate the technical side of drawing, design, and painting in each of the various media; there is little emphasis placed on subject matter.
The collection is composed of 48 paintings of which 18 are oils, and the rest mounted mats of drawings, original designs, and watercolors.
At each of the galleries where the exhibit will be shown, the time of display will be limited to a week in order to enable the exhibit to complete the circuit during the year.
The complete itinerary: South Bend, Mishawaka, Goshen, Plymouth, Culver Military Academy, Lafayette, Terre Haute (St. Mary - of - the -Woods), Indiana; Springfield, Ill; Chesterton, Ind.; Nazareth, Big Rapids, Adrian, Michigan; Toledo, Fremont, Lakewood, Cleveland, Greenville, Ohio; Freeport, Rockford, Highland Park, Winnetka, 111.; Milwaukee, Racine, Wisconsin.
Saga Of Early Fathers
Told To Servers
•
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, related the saga of the pioneer priests in this region prior to the coming of the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, before the bi-monthly meeting of the Servers’ Club held last Monday evening.
Following a brief biographical sketch of Father Badin, the first priest to be ordained in the United States, Father O’Donnell traced the growth of Notre Dame from the time it was but a desolate mission house on the Indiana prairie to the construction of the first college building j on the shore of Lake St. Mary. I
EMIL F LINDT TO PLAY AT CHICAGO CLUB YULE DANCE
Emil Flindt and his popular dance band will furnish music for the Chicago Club’s annual Christmas formal to be held Dec. 28 in the Lake Shore
Athletic Club, Lake Shore Drive, Chi
cago. This was announced by John Maloney, president of the club, after unanimous approval by Chicagoans at a smoker given Wednesday night in the faculty dining hall.
Robert McKeat-ing, chairman of
Robert mcKeating the dance, announced that
tickets will be on sale after Dec. 1
at §3.00 per couple. They may be purchased from Kelly in Dillon, Pup-lis and Carroll in Sorin, Al Smith in Alumni, or in rooms 119 and 123 Walsh. On Dec. 27 and 28 reservations may be made at the Lake Shore club in Chicago.
A large attendance is expected this year with the club’s enrollment exceeding all previous records. The
Prof. Norbert Engels Sketches The Life
And Works Of Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C.
In a stirring lecture before St. Mary’s students last Monday, Professor Norbert A. Engels, associate professor of English at the University, predicted that the poems and writings
Prof. Norbert Engels
of Rev. Chas. L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., late president of Notre Dame, will not only become a part of American literature but will also influence other writers.
His talk was given in honor of the birthday anniversary- Sunday of Father O’Don
nell, who during his lifetime was considered an outstanding Catholic philosopher, educator, and poet. Some of Father O’Donnell’s outstanding works are “A Rime of the Rood,” “Cloister and Other Poems,” “The Dead .Musician and Other Poems,” and “Notre Dame Our Mother.”
PRESIDENT MdNTOSH OPENS CHEMISTS'
RADIO SERIES
•
The first in a series of thirteen radio talks on “Chemistry Today,” sponsored by the Chemists’ Club, was delivered by the club president, Joseph McIntosh, from the campus studios last Tuesday evening. McIntosh’s subject was “The Role of Chemical Industry in the Progress of America.”
At their last meeting the Chemists heard Bill Mehring, who spoke on “The Growth of duPont in the United States,” and Frank. Pfaff and Bob Tuson, who discussed “The Fixation of Atmospheric Nitrogen by the Use of the Electric Arc.”
Charles Welsh was appointed chairman of the club smoker which is to be held just before the Chrismas holidays.
Although no definite date has been set, the second in the series of radio talks is expected to be given next Monday night by Francis P. Frascati on “Petroleum.”
dance is open to both club members and their guests.
Speakers at the last meeting were Rev. Charles Corcoran, C.S.C., pastor of Christ the King Church, and Joseph F. Donohoue, prominent South Bend business leader. The next meeting -will be held on Dec. 12.
Mr. Engels related several instances in the life of the beloved priest which revealed his exemplary character. He pointed out that Father O’Donnell was a firm leader in the faith and that he was in the habit of saying Mass daily despite somewhat serious obstacles at times.
In discussing the life of Father O’Donnell as a soldier, Mr. Engels said:
“As .a soldier, Father O’Donnell came into contact with many fine young poets who had been tom from peaceful contemplation to face the realization of the horrors of death.”
Among these poets was Joyce Kilmer, noted poet and composer of the famous poem, “Trees,” whom he met when they were accidentally billeted together in the same town.
In introducing the subject of Father O’Donnell’s ideas regarding the beauty of God, Mr. Engels revealed that the .very essence of the priest’s poetic work was the seeking of the presence of God.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
GERMAN CLUB PLANS MUSIC. SPEECHES.
FOR YEAR
•
Der Deutsche Verein, the German language group, operating under a new set of officers has formulated plans to make it one of the most active clubs on the campus. Bernard Niezer, president; John Williams, vice-president; Albert Denton, secretary; and Richard Casey, treasurer, now head the organization.
Musically, the group plans to form a German quartet as well as to enlarge the present German band. .In keeping with this program, German song books and music sheets are to be purchased by the club. A German movie is also contemplated.
Various speakers are to be obtained who will lecture on German topics, and several talks on Communism will be given by some of the members in the near future. The organization decided that the German language is to be used at all times, during meetings.
Mr. George J. Wack, sponsor of the club and associate professor of German, expressed his satisfaction as to the increased attendance at meetings and declared that there is now a strong student enthusiasm in the German movement. Students, he said, will greatly profit through the information obtained at meetings of this sort. Everything possible is being done to make the study and the understanding of the language easier for students.
Delker, Bannon Chosen To Fil/ Vacancies
•
Paul Delker was elected lieutenantcolonel of the Kentucky Club at a recent meeting. He fills the position left vacant by Howard Barnett, who died during the summer. Pat Bannon was named the new sargeant-at-arms, taking over the other vacancy.
Colonel Emil J. Peter announced the formation of a program committee. This committee, composed of a member- from each of the four classes, will choose a speaker for each meeting. At alternate meetings a guest and a club speaker will be chosen. In order, from senior to freshman, all the classes will be represented. R. Parker Sullivan, president of the senior class, will be the first guest and will speak_at the club’s next meeting.
It was decided to have a memorial Mass at some future date for Howard Barnett, late lieutenant colonel of the club. All the members and friends are to attend this Mass.
In the spotlight this week: A Sor-inite, Frank Burke, of Portland, Ore. Frank, who is the editor of The Catalyzer, has turned out two editions of that magazine which have been among the finest ever produced here. Editor Burke transferred from the University of Portland after his freshman year. Unverified rumors
have it that the “home atmosphere” disturbed his study at the far western school. As a result of the seclusion of Notre Dame, Frank benefits with a magna cum laude average.
His Christmas vacations are spent here on the campus. N. D. seems to have some strange hold on him, but he did leave for a short time on the Army trip. His explanation of this unparalleled conduct was that he wanted to see Notre Dame beat Army, dip his hand in the Atlantic, aand sample the famous spots of the big town.
When not busy upholding his high average, Frank finds recreation on the golf course. This interest in golf is, of course, only a mask for his interest in feminine golfers. Frank will readily tell you of his friendship with the feminine golf champion of Oregon. As a sophomore he was a star footballer for Lyons.
Frank’s “past” is hidden behind the murky clouds of secrecy. Dimly we see a young lad marching in Boy Scout uniform, proud possessor of more merit badges than any other scout -in the Portland area.. Out of the scout .uniform we.-see- this- same young lad marching from door to door, an ambitious magazine salesman.
His summers have been spent in various ways. One secret ambition of his has been to go to sea. Last sum-
VINCENTIANS BEGIN ANNUAL CLOTHING "ROUND-UP"
•
At the last meeting of the campus conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society hall representatives were appointed to solicit and receive from University students whatever old clothing and literature they did not care to retain. The following men are in charge of this drive:
Robert Lochner, Alumni; Joseph Nigro, Howard; Frank Itzin, Carroll and Brownson; Edward Tracey, Morrissey; Nelson Vogel, Lyons; John Crowley, Dillon; Robert Cronin, Sorin.
The garments and reading matter collected by the society will be turned over to help the needy and sick of this vicinity.
On Nov. 20 the Notre Dame Conference aided in the reorganization of the St. Matthew’s parish conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. At this meeting the life of Frederick Ozanam was sketched in brief detail by Charles Beasly, a member of the campus conference.
Because of the student trip to the Army game last Sunday’s meeting was postponed. The next regular session will be held in the K. of C. lounge on Nov. 22, at 11:00 a.m.
Architects Win Six Beaux Arts Prizes
Out of seven designs sent in by sophomore architectural students, six received awards of “mention” as a result of the first judgment held at . the Beaux Arts Institute of Design at New York on November 4, according to an announcement by Francis W. Kervick, professor of architecture.
Robert J. Schultz was given a “first mention,” and Edward J. Solon, Jr., Wallace W. Arendt, Bernard J. Eilers, Herman J. Harders, and Joseph J. Hennessey were awarded “mentions.” The problem in archaeology was to design a circular peripteral Greek temple.
In the competition in advanced interior design for the drawing of a waiting room for a bus station, a “mention” was given to the design submitted by Raymond Marre, and a “half-mention” to that of John McAuliffe.
mer Sailor Frank was prepared to embark when the shipmens’ strike halted him, so instead he took a summer course at the University of Oregon Extension school. One summer he worked his way . to the World’s Fair, herding sheep on a cattle train.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
9
THE WEEK
Wasted Suffrage
About this student poll on the Cardinal’s Holiday. We had a belief, since proved naive, that the boys were to choose the day. Certainly there was a poll taken—we were asked for our selection. We voted for the day after Thanksgiving because we were told that the majority was in favor of that day. When the poll had been completed, we waited for the seemingly inescapable verdict for Nov. 27. Needless to say, we were shocked and disillusioned when the news was released that the Christmas vacation would be one day longer, and that the Thanksgiving respite was to be very brief—one day, to be exact. We can’t quite understand it. We know that the poll was for an extra turkey day. There’s something strange about it all. We recall the “poll” concerning the change of time in our freshman year. There’s nothing like having a vote in current affairs.
Male Victori/
The Sheen lectures were bright, enlightening affairs all the way through. Etiquette was abandoned; one of the prime rules of social courtesy was snubbed—girls had to stand during the talks. Here was one chance for the boys to concede the equality of the sexes. If women can fly the ocean, play golf, smoke, and run for Congress, then let them stand in crowded halls; so thought most of the males. The masculine position was unique in that men had a perfect, unassailable right to sit; the lectures were for students; outsiders had to take their chances.
* * *
Page Isaac Newton
There are drainage systems and drainage systems, some good some not so good. Let us examine our own arrangement. The next time it rains, you won’t have long to wait, watch the rushing waters keep on rushing; see the drains scorned by the flood. As you jump six feet across a perilous puddle, look at the nearby drains. They are cleverly placed above the level of the water; they help not at all. Occasionally a stray drop of rain enters, but the main body flows on, soaking feet and ankles, sweeping all before it. Why are the drains above the water so that they accomplish nothing? How should we know? Perhaps they are not rust-proof, and the engineers fear the contact of driving water. Of course, if water could be made to run uphill, the situation would be met; but'we are afraid that the law of gravity is beyond abrogation.	.
By John A. Gillespie
Manhattan Madness
It was granted that tall stories would emanate from the student trip. You can’t let some 500 students get 800 miles from the campus without repercussions. But we don’t believe all the fantasies; even in New York there are laws. So we reject the vaporous contribution of the hardy who said he rented a car after the game and visited Philadelphia, Hoho-kus, and Albany before he boarded the train Sunday for Notre Dame. Who’d want to visit Hohokus? Also we challenge the high-flown legend about somebody climbing the steps of the Statue of Liberty seven times, without a rest, while reciting “The Face On The Barroom Floor” backwards. Fun is fun, but there must be a limit.
❖ ❖ «
To The Editor	•
Campus journalism is such a puzzle. Take the Scholastic of Nov. 13 for example. Normally the book is composed of one half news, one half sports, and an eternal cry of “Get your copy in early.” But in last week’s issue, on page 18, in the heart of the sports section (it has a heart, hasn’t it, Stroker?) we read with alarm two stories which undeniably belonged to the news department. The top story was about the organization of the Maryland District Club, and there wasn’t an athlete mentioned. Directly below it, was an announcement that the lowans would breakfast on Nov. 22; still no sign of sport material. We spoke rather sharply to the head man, a guy named Foley. He muttered something about copy that didn’t come in; anyhow, his job wasn’t extended to close scrutiny over the sports group. Should you see an editorial on the cover of a future edition, you’ll know that Foley has waited under the pressure. As he would put it, he expects daily to be traded for a cracked bat. Bear with him, fellows; he has a good heart. ‘
❖ * *
Master Orator
And what do the Communists think of the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Sheen? We know what he thinks of them. He swept away the clouds that had surrounded the issues between Catholicism and Communism. The wonder of it all is that the Communists are still active; they should realize that there isn’t any use fighting now. We never saw such large and attentive crowds as those which greeted him. Any lecturer who can influence over 100 students to stand up during his talk must have something. The prevalence of notebooks on the first night indicated that many of the lis-
Chance to Decline Fame For $25 Award
o
Something new in the way of a prize contest is being sponsored by The Nezu Republic according to announcement received this weeki The editors are offering a prize of §25.00 for the best 300 word letter, by an undergraduate in any recognized American college or university, declining the Republican nomination for 1940.
Manuscripts must be typewritten, on one side of the paper only. No entries will be considered that are postmarked later than midnight, Sunday, December 6.
The New Republic board of editors, consisting of Bruce Bliven, Malcolm Crowley, Robert Morse Lovett, George Soule and Stark Young, will be the judges. All manuscripts should be addressed to The Nezu Republic, 40 East 49th Street, New York, N. Y.
A Quick Glance Back Through History
Oct. 22, 1892—The Brownson mustache club has added several members to its roll during the past week. Some of them are inclined to lean forward already on account of their heavy burden.
Nov. 9, 1889 — Among the recent improvements in the cuisine is the addition of a fine large steam coffeegrinder.
Nov. 12, 189.2 — As Clay Township goes, so goes the country. At least it did this time.
Nov. 10, 1894 — Several new football suits have been procured for the Athletic Association. They are a great improvement over the old ones both in padding and make.
Nov. 7, 1896 — The lawyers wish to announce that theii- colors are black and blue, and are to be worn only after each game.
Nov. 13, 1897 — The boys will be playing baseball on a dead level when the work is completed on the field. A good fielder last year had to be a hurdler to cover the ground well.
teners were there at the “request” of professors; but, once you heard him, you didn’t have to be coaxed into repeating again and again. Our rather simple idea of fun would be to have Earl Browder and Monsignor Sheen on opposite sides of the platform, arguing the question. On second thought, wouldn’t be an argument, but a debacle. •
* * *
Top Of The Week
Who but Monsignor Sheen?
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
4T WASHINGTON
By Arnold Serwer
(A. C. P. Correspondent)
Washington, D. C.—The smashing victory of President Roosevelt has cheered many a young New Deal employee here, giving him the basis for hope that his government job is now fairly secure. Although few such young New Dealers, prior to the election, doubted that the President would win, no one knew whether the margin of victory would be large or small.
If victory had come by a small margin, these young people would have begun to fear for their jobs. Lacking a pronounced popular mandate, they would have feared the President would begin to retreat and retrench, liquidating sections or all of some alphabetical agencies as their appropriations began to dwindle.
Now they feel the President will not only be disposed to hold his ground, but will move in the direction of increased Federal activity. There is going to be a stronger labor program, than they surmised even before the election. There is going to be a coordination of the government’s efforts in the field of public works, relief and welfare, but probably not until there is one final drive against unemployment. That drive will mean new appropriations and new jobs.
Some of these young people hope that in the President’s second administration their agencies will be designated as permanent ones, to be blanketed under Civil Service. In the past three years many a young bachelor in Washington has taken unto himself a wife, many a former co-ed has assumed the care of a husband, and with these new obligations and duties the fear of job insecurity has become a real fear. So that there is nothing they want more than to be placed under Civil Service. . . .
Recovery or no, the NYA is not. likely to be dropped in President Roosevelt’s second term. Along with the CCC it has on the whole been one of his most popular ventures. He may wangle more money out of Congress this session to go into student aid on a bigger scale. The apprentice features of the NYA probably will be permanently dropped, while the work project features will be put on a more workable basis. It is not inconceivable that he may even take over some of the features of the American Youth Act, and really try to bring genuine opportunities to those who lost the most in the years of depression!
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Employment in 1986
A great deal of the current political and economic thought centers around the establishment of old age pensions; yet if the prophecy of a professor at the University of California becomes a reality, 50 years from now the need for these pensions ■will be eliminated. It is his contention that “Men will be working until they are 70 because of a lack of younger men to take their place. School rooms all over America are unoccupied at the present time owing to the alarming decrease in children born in this country.”
However, there is one grain of satisfaction in this otherwise dismal prophecy since it offers the belief that by the time the present generation is seeking employment there will be plenty of positions open.
—o—
They Really Travel
Even when Coach “Slip” Madigan’s “Galloping Gaels” of St. Mary’s College in California play a “home” game the players have to pack their traveling bags and prepare to depart from their campus. The reason for this is that their “home field” is Ke-zar Stadium in San Francisco and to reach it Madigan’s huskies must first travel 30 miles by land, then go over 20 miles of water, and hitting land again they pass through three counties and three metropolitan cities. In addition to these local journeys St. Mary’s this year has already made a transcontinental hop to New York City where they played Fordham, and on their return journey the Gaels stopped off in Chicago to tangle with Marquette.
—o—
What’s In A Name?
Last year sports columnists the country over gave considerable space to the fact that a Henry Wadsworth Longfellow played football for Northwestern while a William Shakspeare was doing some fine ball toting for the “Fighting Irish.” This year they have dug up a James Fenimore Cooper at Marquette, a Benjamin Franklin at Detroit, and a Donald Duck at Arizona.
In a slightly similar vein we .have the nicknames of football squads throughout the nation. To mention but a few: Razorbacks, Ichabods, Druids, Jimmies, Polar Bears, Gorillas, Matadors, Foresters, Bishops, Nevonians, and Rough Riders.
In Passing—
A helpful hint from the St. Edward’s Rambler: “Kokix” is the Western Union code word for “Am out of funds.” Try it some time and
CALENDAR
Friday, November 20
“Scholastic of the Air,” 4:00 p.m, campus radio station through WSBT, South Bend; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Gigantic pep rally for the Northwestern game, Gym, 6:30 pan., Warren Brown will speak.
Saturday, November 21
Mass for the football team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Football,’ varsity vs. Northwestern University, Stadium, 1:45 p.m.; Knights of Columbus Football dance, Columbia Athletic club, 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.; Movies, Washington hall, first movie for Freshmen only at 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, November 22
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, November 23
. Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Chesterton club meeting, 8:00 p.m., engineering auditorium; Second in the series of radio talks, “Chemistry Today,” campus radio station through WSBT, South Bend.
Tuesday, November 24
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Arnold Lunn lecture, “Olympic Games: Old and New,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.; German club meeting, Carroll Rec., 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 25
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Cleveland Club Smoker, Lay-Faculty dining hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, November 26
Thanksgiving Day, no classes; Annual Villagers’ Club Thanksgiving Dance, Columbia Athletic club, Myron Walz and his orchestra, 9:00 p.m.
if in reply you receive the laconic “Kosaw” feel jubilant because it is the soothing news that you may “Draw on me for amount due”. . . . According to the U. S. Patent Office in Washington there has been in the past few years a decided decrease in the number of inventions designed for the discomfort of victims going through “hazing” periods. . . Kei yon College now demands a swimuing requirement for graduation. ... In the opinion of Editor V. F. Calverton the modern college hero is an athletic Lochinvar .and a mental Harpo Marx.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE ...
PETE VIVIANO will-play host to one of the most popular debutantes of St. Louis over the week-end. He has his eye on a diplomatic post after graduating, and we feel that he will have his first taste of it explaining the new arrival to his many local friends. . . . LOU VETTEL, (Off-campus) must be the good will ambassador for Notre Dame. He was seen at least once in every room in the McAlpin . . . CARL ROHLEDER, (Lyons) went “5th Ave.” while in New York and bought himself a shirt and tie, both a pretty shade of lavender . . . TONY SCALARO, parted with his moustachio; some who know him say he did it for a girl; others say he did it after twelve. ... We want to know if BOB MALARNAY, (Walsh) is going to practice law in South Bend? . . . LUKE TIERNAN, (Walsh) has a “ready smile,” "a pat on the shoulders” and “an extended hand” to all law students these days, even those he doesn’t know—what’s the catch, Luke? ...
“It ain’t fair” cried some two thousand voices as they swarmed out onto the field after the game to tear the goal posts down, only to have them disappear under their noses—
Every one to arms; write your Congressman at once . . . The “Sagamore” club threw its dance (purely coincidental) on the night of the game . . . and (purely coincidental) none of the girls had dates . . . and (purely coincidental) the dance was at the McAlpin. . . .
Why did certain band members whistle “Every Little Breeze Seems to Whisper Louise” and who is it that has seen the movie “To-Marry (Jane) With Love” three times? . . . “RED” WATTERS and “SPANK” McFARLAND (Walsh) went “Dodo” hunting last week. They quickly sighted their quarry but upon closer examination found it to be Bill Shakespeare and Tom Proctor. . . .
Day Dreams of a Young Lawyer
This Blackstone was a boob, I often ponder
To gather all that dusty law in books,
I’d like to be a hobo and to wander And sleep in cool, secluded, grassy ■ nooks.	-
A lawyer has to shave and wear a collar	-	.
A bum need never own a razor blade
A barrister must fight for every dollar
A hobo lives by stealthy pantry raid
I guess I’ll leave the law stuff to scholars
And ride the rods from here to Albuquerque
Just then a check came in for forty dollars
■ And I think it’s time to start to work. . . .
Overheard in Yankee Stadium
He, to (Notre Dame): “Is that your “Victory March” the band is playing?
(N. D.): “No, just your funeral dirge.
Only 36 more shopping days before Christmas. . . .
Things we don’t want for Christmas . . . Plaid ties, white socks, stripped shirts, cigars from a • girl, framed mottoes, one sided cuff buttons, stickpins, long sleeved underwear and colored stationery. . . .
“Do your Xmas shopping oily . . .”
No matter how good he may be, every presidential candidate is bound to have his vice.
Strange to say, no one seems to know who writes this column—(I’m not Bearskin).
"TIME OUT FOR HEIDELBERG"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867	.
The Scholastic is published 2G times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
as an exemplary alumnus. That his passing should occur so closely to the reunion of men who knew him as a student is both sad and significant. The - Old Timers tomorrow will have a keener realization of what Notre Dame meant to John Eggeman, what Notre Dame means to them, and what they mean to Notre Dame.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_____________________Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.............................   Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER____________L__________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie__________________________.___The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle__________'College Parade John Hurley_________________■__________________;_Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan____________;____________-___“Scholastic of the Air"
Joseph Rotondo_________________________________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff	’
Louis DaPra_________________;__________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams_____________________._____Assistant News Editor Michael Mongoven______________________•__________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley__________________________________.-Robert McClain
Graham Starr ;
Vincent HartnettI •.
Gregory Byrnes J Literary Editors Harold Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett------------------:_____-________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley—.—_—;------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_________:________1------------Nicholas Lamberto Frederick Digby---------------------------.________John Clifford
Charles Callahan____________'_______William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott—---------‘—___--------;_______James A. Waldron
_ James Dunn	.	-
Francis Kroeger_____________________;_____;________—Art:Editor
William R. Dooley, ’26______;_____________-Business Manager
.Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	November 20, 1936	No. 8
OLD TIMERS' DAY . . .
TOMORROW’S visit of the Old Timers to the campus takes deeper significance through the recent death of the Hon. John W. Eggeman, ’00, whose idea and . guiding genius started the annual reunions. Mr. Eggeman was the chairman of last year’s affair when old time monogram winner returned to the campus. He will.not be-here and his loss saddens his teammates of old and those of today’s generation who knew him.	’ . .
The monogram men of old who return tomorrow will see a Notre Dame vastly changed. They will see a University that has grown physically and spiritually through the weight of merit her alumni have heaped upon their school. Notre Dame could never have grown solely through the effort of an industrious, pious and' learned faculty; Notre Dame could never have so affected the religious growth of a nation unless she sent such men into the world as will return here tomorrow; Of such a type was John Eggeman. .
We as students knew him but little. But from older men, priests and faculty members we have heard of him
MONSIGNOR SHEEN'S TALKS. . .
ANYONE who saw the whole-hearted interest displayed by students in attending the lectures given last week by the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton Sheen realizes the popularity he has on the campus. It is a rare sight to see Washington Hall packed to capacity four nights in a row. This attendance, interest, and applause expresses the true thanks of the students both to the University for providing such a brilliant guest lecturer, and to Monsignor Sheen for his illuminating series.	...
On Saturday night Monsignor Sheen appeared at Terre Haute, Indiana, where he gave a brief synthesis of his five talks here. In the course of his address, he alluded to the wide-spread interest he found, among Catholic lay people on the question of Communism. Students here certainly manifested their interest; further than that, they manifested a real craving for just the type of teaching that Monsignor Sheen sb ably provided.
SLOW TIME...
AT THIS time last year, in fact two weeks earlier than this, thirty candidates had reported for varsity debate trials. The topic for discussion was already chosen and tentative attempts at arranging-a schedule were being made. So far this year the debaters haven’t even dusted off a book of procedure.	.
It is . hard to realize that less than a month remains before Christmas. After returning from the holidays we have only about four weeks until the schoolyear is half over. Qur debating team will undoubtedly function with its usual schedule, but many prospective. candidates are beginning to feel anxious over the prospect of practice. The debating squad will have to be wary of meeting opponents who have been grooming for weeks.
OUT OF SIGHT .. .
DID YOU ever wonder what happens to ex-flagpole. sitting champions, winners bf dance marathons, and other~champ chumps? It seems that such courageous work is forgotten as quickly as it springs up. While its origin was a little more sound, and its purposes certainly more constructive, the much publicized Veterans of Future Wars seems to have, met with something of the same fate. We have scarcely heard a single demand for early bonuses, or the Congressional Medal for pre-Valor. Judging from the sudden drop in publicity lineage, the Veterans of Future Wars have run out of headline ammunition. It was. good while it lasted and it is regrettable that the boys decided to make a circus , out of what might have been deadly satire. ;	' -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
The Personality Smile
By Edward Fischer
Marian Montrose was going home. At least she was Marian Montrose to Hollywood and Broadway; but to the folks in Birchwood she was just “01’ Man” Manning’s youngest daughter, Kate.
Any one in Birchwood could tell you all about Kate. They began by informing you that Will Manning was the village postmaster, and that he had three daughters. The two older girls were skipped over quickly; but when they came to Kate they spoke more slowly and picked the nicest adjectives they knew.	.
Grandpa Stetson, the town’s oldest citizen, once described her to a stranger in his own homespun way:
“She alluys wuz jest as pretty as a pitcher, even when she wuz a little girl. I kin still see her gallopin’ her horse down Pineville Pike with her brown pig-tails flyin’. Her nose wuz kinda turned up with about a million pin-point freckles sprinkled over it. But it wasn’t her face so much though that made ya like her. It wuz her smile. Every time she smiled at ya she made ya kinda feel warm inside. When she got onta eighteen, she got - th’ fool notion thet she wanted to be actin’ on th’ stage. Ma Manning wuz aginst it. Pa Manning wuz aginst it. Th’ whole town wuz aginst it, especially young Jim Robinson, ’cause he wuz Kate’s beau. He wuz aginst it more than anybody. Folks around here has had them two picked out to get married ever since they -wuz little kids, but it don’t seem so likely now. Well, . Kate wouldn’t give up. She wuz goin’ to th’ stage no matter who tried to stop her. Finally, Ma and Pa Manning gave in. The town kinda gave in, but young Robinson never did give in an’ I don’t reckon he ever will.”
Marion Montrose was thinking of these things as she . skimmed along the highways- in her sport roadster. Every mile was bringing her closer home,.. and the closer she . came the more she thought of those days gone, by—-especially of Jimmie. .
Would Jimmie be glad to see her? Probably, not. She remembered that last quarrel. Jimmie said that if she went on the stage she need never speak to him again. She went on the stage. When she left, Jimmie said, she-wouldn’t get very far as an . actress. She had reached stardom.
All this quarreling was five years ago. The miles rolled by. Maybe Jimmie had forgotten by now. But he didn’t have a right to be angry because she went on the stage. He never did .
anything she wanted him to do. Didn’t she want him to be a lawyer or doctor, and din’t he tell her he would much rather be a mechanic? Jimmie was never happy until he was
From Los Angeles
By Louis F. McKean, '39
There is a friend in old L. A. -From whom I heard the other day.
His talk of doings way out West Was of the very liveliest.
To him, with wishes, goes this note, Which, as follows, I here quote:
In such a town
Of such renown .
For fun colossal and surprise, There’s no doubt	■	.
But you’re about .
From darkness to sunrise.
From city urban
To hills suburban
You must at twilight ride,
To leave the noise,	.
To keep your poise, .
And view the countryside.
Hoiv often on this dismal plain The beauties hidden I sought in vain. For more than undulating rows Of plotved land, crops and old scarecrows,
I see no work of Nature’s skill -Except the land that’s fit to till.
A bit of scenic beauty, rugged, rare, A, breath of buoyant, mountain, air.
A jagged peak, a rushing stream, • A field of snoiv lodged in a seam.
. No more sights of red bams, plows. No more pastoral, contented cows.
grimy. He hated white collar jobs. She shuddered . as she thought of dirty overalls and greasy hands. „
Five . years . ago, she had started out as a chorus girl in one - of the smaller, shows. In a little more than two years’ time, her name was flashing on Broadway. In another year, she had reached Hollywood, the Mecca of all good little actors and actresses. It was her smile that carried her through. Her press agent
called it “the personality smile,” and the name stuck. All over the country she was headlined as, “Marian Montrose, the girl with the personality smile.”	■
Her smile got many compliments, but she thought most of the one paid her by an old Jewish doorman who worked backstage in a Broadway theater. Every one in the show called him “Rabbi.” No one knew his real name.
Marian met “Rabbi” at the door one morning when she came to rehearsal. She gave him the same smile and cheery “good morning” that she gave every one else. He stopped her and said,
“Vat a schmile, vat a schmile. Don’t use it too often; but when you vhant something real bad—just schmile. You will get vhateffer you vant.”
Marian often thought of “Rabbi’s” words ;but things had come so easily the past five years that she did not really have a chance to try out the old man’s prophecy.
Her chain of thought was broken. She was getting close to Birchwood, and the scenery was so familiar that she began to look for changes. Everything seemed the same. Fultons still had the black cow that always stood in the same comer of the pasture. Norton’s little brown dog, Sandy, was still chasing automobiles.
As Marian turned the curve that brought her into Birchwood, she saw - a sign which read, “Henderson’s Garage.” She stopped in front of the garage door. A young man came out. It was Jimmie. He recognized her at first glance.
“Well.” He tried to hang icicles on his words.	:
“Aren’t you glad to see me, Jimmie?”	.
“I don’t know why I should be.”
“I’m glad to see you.”
“I suppose you can see I’m still a mechanic wearing dirty, greasy overalls.”
“Yes, but that doesn’t mean everything.” .	_ ,
“You used to think it meant everything. If you want any repairs made on your car, I’ll make them. If not -—I’m busy.” He started to go into the garage.
Just then, the prophecy of the old Jewish doorman came to Marian’s mind. “If you effer vant anything real bad—just schmile. You vill get vhateffer you vant.”
She called to Jimmie. He turned around. She flashed him her best personality smile. “Rabbi” was right.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
ATHLETICS
IRISH MEET UNDEFEATED NORTHWESTERN IN LAST HOME GAME OF SEASON;
PURPLE CONFIDENT OF WIN
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
When Elmer Layden’s revivified Fighting Irish meet Lynn Waldorf’s victorious Wildcats tomorrow in the Notre Dame stadium, they will enter the game in precisely the same relative position that Northwestern occupied in their last year’s encounter
Joe Zwers
Gotham shouted its approval.
with the Irish. The Wildcats will be seeking their eighth successive triumph this season, and the Irish will be striving to spoil the Cat’s thus far unsullied slate.
In this, the sixteenth meeting between the two schools, the rivalry between them, which dates back to 1-889, will possibly reach an all-time climax. For the first time in history, Northwestern is in undisputed possession of the Western Conference football championship, and Notre Dame is the one obstacle which stands between them and the national honors which accompany an undefeated season.
Thus, the Irish'undoubtedly enter the fray with practically everyone picking on them to lose. The only - unbiased hopefuls are those who play hunches. And these hunches are based solely on the fightingness of the Fighting Irish. The psychological angle of this game cannot be underrated. The Blue and Gold has received some pretty severe disappointments this season, and with last year’s performance by Northwestern well fixed in their minds, they will really (Continued on Page 21)
SO THEY SAY
“Notre Dame’s consistently inconsistent football team came back with a display of power and speed that routed the Army, 20-6, before a capacity crowd in the Yankee Stadium this afternoon.
“Exploding in the faces of an Army unit neither physically nor mentally prepared to meet such velocity, the versatile belligerent and burly eleven from South Bend blasted out three touchdowns through and around the Army stockade—Arch Ward in the Chicago Tribune.
“Led by some agile operations on the part of Bob Wilke, behind a line that clearly outplayed its traditional rival, Notre Dame hauled out of the Yankee Stadium today to win over Army by 20-6.” — Warren Brown in the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
“Reeling on the defensive before an Army advance of 73 yards to its 6-yard line in the opening minutes of play, Notre Dame underwent an amazing transformation and proceeded to-outplay the West Point Cadets yesterday clearly to earn a 20-6 victory as the season’s record gathering of 80,000 looked on at the Yankee Stadium.” — Allison Danzig in the New York Times.
“A hot and cold Notre Dame team that was hot for its New York appearance before the year’s largest football assemblage thumped Army 20-6 yesterday in the warm sunshine of the Yankee Stadium to maintain its stranglehold over the cadet foe.”— J. P. Abramson in the New York Herald-Tribune.
“Notre Dame, pet team of the Big City, beat Army 20-6 at the Yankee Stadium yesterday before 80,000, a record football crowd for the East. Notre Dame scored once in the second period and twice in the third. Then Monk Meyer scuttled 60 yards in the late minutes to keep Army from a shut out. It was an open game.”— Jimmy Powers in the New York Sunday News.
DE LANDERO BEATS ALL OPPONENTS IN FENCING TOURNEY
Following in his brother’s footsteps as an expert of the sabre, Captain Telmo de Landero took first place in the round-robin sabre tournament that was held in the gymnasium last Monday and Tuesday. He won each of his five matches.
The encouraging results of the tournament indicated that this year’s supposedly weakened sabre section will really do more than hold its own in the intercollegiate matches. The competition brought to light some excellent men in this division to take the place of last year’s invincible sabre team, the Co-captains Carlos de Landero and Kevin Kehoe.
Pierre de la Vergne won three bouts and lost two to finish second in the tournament. Sal Scarlata was third, while Jim Graham and Bob Seco tied fourth. The sixth man in the tournament was Carlos de Landero who is helping his father coach the sabre men and who entered to increase the competition. He took part in and won three bouts but did not count his score; Jack Zerbt took his place in his other two matches but lost each of them after a stiff battle.
Coach Pedro de Landero was well satisfied and started a tournament in the foils immediately after the sabre matches were completed last Tuesday.
The registrar at the University of Oklahoma proved statistically that students with the thinnest wallets get the most “A’s” when two state legislators complained that the S3 “flunking fee” is a hardship on poor students.
O ‘A/^/LL.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20,' 1936.
15
IRISH DEFEATS ARMY WITH 20-6 SCORE
IN FIFTH WIN
•
By Nick Lamberto
In a thrilling' exhibition of offensive football witnessed by a colorful crowd of 80,000 the Notre Dame Fighting Irish repulsed the West Point Cadets, 20-6, at Yankee Stadium in New York City last Saturday. The Irish led at the half, 6 to 0.
The game was featured by the alert play of the whole Notre Dame team. Joe Zwers and Captain John Lauter played a large part in the victory with their tight defensive play. Zwer’s recovery of a fumble lateral and Lauter’s interception of a forward pass both deep in Army teritory paved the way for the two touchdowns which broke the Cadet’s morale. The offensive stars were Wilke, McCormick, and Puplis of Notre Dame; and Meyer and Craig of the Army.
Army started out fast in the first quarter. They took the opening kickoff and marched 73 yards on a sustained drive to the Notre Dame 6-yard line where they were stopped when Puplis intercepted Craig’s pass in the end zone for a touchback.
Notre Dame came back with a scoring drive of their own late in the first period. On a sustained drive the Irish carried the ball 60 yards to the Army 20-yard line from where Dan-bom attempted a place kick on the fourth down. The try was wide.
The Cadets resumed the offensive in the second quarter when Schwenk intercepted Kovalcik’s pass and ran down to the Irish 25-yard line. The Notre Dame line held for downs on the 5-yard line and O’Neill kicked out of danger.
Near the end of the second period the Irish scored their first touchdown. Puplis caught a long pass from Wilke which advanced the ball to Army’s 21-yard line. On two running plays Wilke carried the ball to the 7-yard . line. On the next play the elusive Bunny McCormack faked the Army’s Captain Stromberg out of position and scampered around his end to the one yard line. Wilke then carried the ball over on his second triel. Dan-bom failed to make the extra point.
In the third period the Irish went on a scoring rampage and scored two touchdowns. The first came as a result a wild Army lateral which was recovered by Zwers on the Army 15-yard line. On the first play, a deceptive fake reverse, Wilke carried.the . ball over for a touchdown. Puplis converted to put the Irish in the lead 13 to 0.
Soon after this Lauter intercepted (Continued on Page 20)
NORTHWESTERN WRITER VIEWS CONTEST BETWEEN IRISH AND ’CAT TEAMS GIVES LOCALS A CHANCE
By Eric Bramley
(Daily Northwestern Sports Writer)
Evanston, HI., Nov. 19—Picking a winner of a Notre Dame-Northwestern football is like trying to pin a tail on a donkey at a Halloween party. Past
performances mean nothing. This was shown to be particularly true last year
when the Wildcats, after a comparatively poor season, bounced back to knock
Interhall Football
Elimination in the touch football interhall league begin Sunday morning at Cartier field with most of the halls represented with teams.
Touch-football, which recently acquired the more stream-lined name of “flash-ball,” has always been a favorite pastime among the non-participating “athletes” of Notre Dame. Many stirring warm-up games have been exhibited about the campus, with the men of Badin and Walsh having acquired the razzle - dazzle type of play that would tickle Andy Kerr’s football eye.
This game does not involve the physical risks that has characterized interhall football in the past, but nevertheless what “flash-ball” does not require in brawn can be made up in speed and deception.
Rockne—A Prophet How About it Men!
At a pep meeting in 1923 the great Rockne derided the critics of football in their clamor about over-emphasis. He said that if things were to go their way, by 1937 the game between Northwestern and Notre Dame would be distinguished by serving tea between the halves. At one of the following games two teams, dressed as panty waists, put on a skit at the intermission. They played touch and when the whistle blew, one of the carts from the old Brownson dining room was rolled out on the gridiron and tea was served to the participants.
the Irish out of a national championship. This year the situation is reversed, with the Purple on top of the heap.	.	-
Let’s look at Northwestern’s advantage for a minute. . . . The Cats
Bob Wilke
He Turned the Army Tide.
have one of the strongest lines in the country. . . . There are at least two men for each position who are continually at each other’s throats fighting for a starting post. . . . Back of this forward wall run a a set of hard-charging, shifty backs. . . . Don Heap, one of the country’s best, has averaged better than five yards a try this season. ... He is capably assisted by Don Geyer, a fast plunging fullback; Bernard Jefferson, colored right halfback; and Fred Vanzo, one of the greatest blocking quarterbacks in the history of Wildcat grid teams. . . . Steve Toth, one of the Big Ten’s best punters, helps Geyer with the fullback duties, while Hinton and Adelman round out the rest of the capable backs. . . .
Coach Lynn Waldorf’s “pulling the wires” has proved invaluable to Northwestern this Fall. Lynn seems to make substitutions at just the right moments. In the Minnesota game, with the ball on the Gophers’ one yard marker, he sent in two fresh linemen and a new backfield. Toth, the new fullback, carried the pigskin over for the winning tally. The boys like this. It shows them he has faith in every member of the team.
Now for the Wildcats’ disadvantages. . . . Experts have pointed to their recent disappointing perform-(Contimied on Page 22)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
INTRODUCING
SIDELIGHTS OF ARMY ADD ZEST TO GAME
We’ve taken a long time to get around to presenting the pivot man on
this year’s team but there has been such a scramble for that position this year we felt that we would be taking a chance to single out one of the seniors who
played the position. But now everything seems settled as far as center is concerned and who do we find up there playing most of the time but Fred “Blue”
Mundee of Sorin Hall from Youngstown, Ohio.
Fred “Blue” Mundee
Early this year the center position was the most disputed spot on the team. Not even Elmer Layden knew who he was going to start until a blond haired boy with a 68 on his back came around and asserted himself. He put the position, among other things, “in the bag” for himself, and looks as though he’ll keep it there for the rest of the season.
Fred has a habit of putting things “in the bag” although in one instance he put something there rather prematurely. The men of Sorin have a custom of getting their football dope straight from the football team and a few weeks ago when they asked Mundee how the Navy game was
gaing to go he naturally told them without a moment’s thought about it that it was “in the bag” for Irish. He’s had ample opportunity to eat those words but all of Sorin hasn’t given him a day’s rest since he returned from Baltimore.
Even Father Farley had to have a hand in it. A few days after the game Fred received, through the mail, an empty bag with the compliments of the Sorin rector. Now every time he goes down to get his mail he has to be prepared to go through a barrage of “in the bag” jibes from his hall mates and Fred is sorry he ever bothered to even go to Baltimore. We imagine he had his moments of gloating following the Army game and possibly made the Sorin boys take back their remarks.
Aside from being optimistic about football games our man of the week has done pretty well by himself this year. . Holding down the center position on a Notre Dame team is no easy task. A man has to know his football and be able to diagnose plays almost immediately. An Irish center is given practically a free hand on defense to roam about at will and it is just to bad if he happens to be on the opposite side of the line when a play is made by the enemy. It is enough to say here that there have' been few complaints from Elmer Layden or Joe Boland concerning Mundee’s play.
Born in Youngstown and attending South High school of that city, Fred made a good name for himself at the home town. For two years, 1930-’31 his name was a fixture on the All-State rosters of both the football and basketball teams and he also took time to get himself on the All-City elevens too..
He followed such Notre Dame greats as Harvey Brown, “Bucky” Dahmah, and Mike Koken from Youngstown to Notre Dame but upon his arrival things looked pretty black for him in a football way. In front of him were Jack Robinson, Hank Pojman, and Fred Solari all candidates for the position. Robinson won it the first year and also received an All-American rating. Last year Pojman and Solari, alternated on the wait-till-the second half-team and bur Fred had to be content Avith a very few minutes of action in his first two years
(Continued on Page 20)
SCRIBE OBSERVES o
The largest crowd to ever witness a football game in New York City was in attendance at the game last Saturday. The majority of the 80,000 strong who turned out seemed to be Irish rooters. The Big City claims Notre Dame as its own. Many news-. papers termed the Fighting Irish as the “pet team of New York.” And well they should. Every time Notre Dame has played in New York they have displayed the fightingest brand of football seen in Gotham.
The Cadet corps presented an inspiring picture as they marched on the field 1,650 strong. In perfect alignment, they marched past the Notre Dame stands. and saluted the Notre Dame supporters. They then lined up in the middle of the field and led by a cheer leader high in the stands gave the Irish a yell.
George Melikovich, great Irish half back of a few years ago came from Chicago to see the game and spent most of the time shouting to the team telling them what to do. He claims he’s getting old but would have liked to have been in the game there Saturday.
The Army forward wall picked Bunny McCormick as their target for all their jibes in the first half of the ' game. Each time an Army man tackled Bunny he would ride him about his size and ask, “Where do you think you’re goiing Sonny?” Bunny had the laugh on them however during the play that saw the second touchdown scored. Just about the whole line led by Captain Stromberg swarmed over the little halfback. The Cadets started their usual jibing in the pileup and Stromberg repeated the question? “Where do you think you’re going Sonny?” Bunny just stood up, empty handed, and congratulated Stromberg on the nicest tackle of the day and pointed to Wilke over the goal line with the ball in his arms. Then in front of the . dumbfounded Cadets Bunny had his laugh.
Hard luck man of the day, was Alex Shellogg. The big sophomore . was playing first string for the first time and on the kickoff he was hurt so badly he had to retire from the game and watch his mates play frdm the sidelines.
Ed Simonich surprised Irish rooters when he got off one of the finest kicks of the day midway in the game. Nobody thought the boy could kick up to that time but on that particular play he looked like a second Shakespeare. Simonich may have the Irish kicking situation well in hand for the next two years if he keeps it up.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
17
COURT TEAM STARTS AUTUMN PRACTICE IN PREPARATION FOR HARD SEASON KEOGANMEN'S PROSPECTS GOOD
By Arch Gott
Basketball Coach George Keogan smiled thoughtfully to himself when he was asked to state the prospects of his 1936-37 basketball team. After a few minutes of silence during which he probably was recalling forecasts he had made in the past, the cage mentor began to talk. To quote him on one point, “Our schedule this year is as terrific as ever with little or no letdown.” The season this time opens with Kalamazoo at Notre Dame on Dec. 5 exactly one hour after the close of the football season. The pig-
Ray Meyer
Captain in his Junior year. skin pushers will finish their game with Southern California about 7:00 o’clock Central time and at eight the Fighting Irish fans will turn their attention from the greensward to the hardwood.
Coach Keogan has had his men hard at practice for the past two weeks but they have been chiefly getting into shape and digging into fundamentals. It always takes the boys a while to recapture the “eye” for the basket although now the hoops are popping in with much regularity. Few scrimmages are being held as yet but tentative teams have been selected for practice purposes. One outfit displays Captain Ray Meyer and Don Allen at forwards, Johnny Moir at center, with Tommy Wuko-vits and Tom Jordan at the guards. Another combination presents Crowe and Carson at forwards, Johnny O’Connor at the center post, with Conrad and Gaglione at the guards. Others showing promise are Du-Charm, Muenz, and Knobel at forwards. Shiels at center and Walker and Attley at the guardposts round out the present squad. Moritz has quit school causing Coach Keogan to seek a reserve center. The great All-American center of last season Paul Nowak, is speedily recovering from (Continued on Page 22)
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
GLENN “POP” WARNER has coached football teams for 42 years. In this period Warner’s teams have won 298 games and lost but 63 contests. Fifteen of his games have ended in ties.
Coaches DUTCH MEYER of Texas Christian and RED DAWSON of Tulane during the tense parts of football games pull up grass by the hand-fulls and chew it up. Groundkeepers of the South and Southwest dread to see these two coaches bring their teams on'trips.
Watch out for Carnegie Tech next year. The Tartan Freshies recently defeated a very strong Pitt first year team 7-0.
PERRY GEFFEN, star New York University lineman, has been forced to retire from actual competition. A knee injury received, in the Ohio State massacre lead to Geffen’s retirement. He is now helping the freshmen to master the gridiron game.
“Tigers” is the favorite nickname for college teams. Of 516 college teams, 25 carry that name. Twenty teams are represented as “Bulldogs,” 13 as “Wildcats,” 10 as “Panthers,” nine as “Bears,” six as “Bobcats,” and six as “Lions.” Other teams are called Razorbacks, Tomcats, Polar Bears, Mules, Antelopes and Gorillas.
Many stars of last year’s Indiana high school basketball teams have selected Indiana University to continue their education. Among the more prominent ones are JAY Mc-CREARY of Frankfort, HUFFMAN of Newcastle, DAY of Washington, MASSOTH of Kokomo, JOHNSON of Vincennes, and PAGE of Shelbyville.
Coach STUB ALLISON of California’s Bears belongs to the superstitious school. He recently discarded a brand new blue sweat shirt in favor of the wash-worn white one which he wore in the undefeated 1936 season.
MIKE BASRAK, captain and center of Duquesne, is a real iron man. He didn’t miss a minutes play during the 1935 season.
There will be no more motion pictures taken of North Carolina, games. Football officials have reported a photography racket in which movies of the team in action were sold to rivals.
NORTHWEST'N GAME CONTINUES SERIES BETWEEN TEAMS
By Fred Digby
For 33 years the Wildcats of Northwestern tried to lick the fighting Irish of Notre Dame without success. They had won but one game in the history of the Northwestern-Notre Dame relationship. But last year, when Notre Dame had visions of an undefeated season and a national championship, the Wildcats met and defeated Notre Dame in a surprising upset, 14 to 7.
The scene will be much the same when the two teams take the field Saturday, except that it will be Northwestern who will be trying- for an undefeated season and the Irish who will be out to avenge the defeat of last year and ruin the Wildcat’s championship hopes.
The 1935 game was the first Northwestern won from Notre Dame since 1901 when they eked out a 2 to 0 victory. The two schools met for the first time back in 1889. The Irish won this game 9 to 0 and came back in 1899 to win again, 12 to 0. After the 1901 game the Irish never lost to Northwestern until last year, though there were two ties, one in 1903 and one in 1931. The record stands with the Irish having played Northwestern fifteen games, winning eleven, losing two, and tying two.
Consequently, tomorrow’s game isn’t a matter of evening up a long series; it isn’t a matter of clearing the records; it’s a question of one season in which the Wildcats have been undefeated and hope to stay that way. Only the Irish of Notre Dame remain in their path to the national championship.
The record of Notre Dame-North-western games of the past follows:
1889—N. D. 9; Northwestern 0 1899—N. D. 12; Northwestern 0 1901—N. D. 0; Northwestern 2 1903—N. D. 0; Northwestern 0 1920—N. D. 33; Northwestern 7 1924—N. D. 13; Northwestern 6 1925'—N. I). 13 ‘Northwestern 10 1926—N. D. 6; Northwestern 0 1929—N. D. 2 6; Northwestern 6 1930—N. D. 14; Northwestern 0 1931—N. D. 0; Northwestern 0 1932—N. D. 21; Northwestern 0 1933—N. D. 7; Northwestern 0 1934—N. D. 20; Northwestern 7 1935—N. D. 7; Northwestern 14
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER.20, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
ILLINOIS BEATS "B's" FOR SECOND TIME IN LAST HALF
Now that the football team has defeated Army we can sit back on our journalistic haunches and smirk at all the world. For of the two Service teams, Army and Navy, it is generally admitted by everyone except the Tantalizing Tars that the former is the better team. Therefore, the fact that the Irish defeated Army proves that the Irish are better than the Navy,—or it would prove it if we were speaking of anything else but football. The only trouble with the whole argument is that things don’t work out that way in football. If one team beats another it only proves that it is the superior team on that one day. And that brings up something else.
The something else is the Northwestern game tomorrow. The Wildcats (that name goes against the grain; we don’t like it) have cleaned up everything in sight so far this year including the powerhouse from the land of many lakes. It has been whispered around that they are now focusing their eyes on Notre Dame with the avowed intention of giving us the works, come Saturday. We don’t blame them a bit. With the exception of the added prestige that always comes by defeating a Notre Dame team, Northwestern has nothing to gain and everything to lose in tomorrow’s game. Notre Dame stands as the last obstacle to an undefeated season and a national championship for the Purple. Now it remains for the Irish to prove that Northwestern was an unbeatable team only on the day it played Minnesota.
We think that Notre Dame can do the trick. . It’s true, of course, that only a few of the members of the present team have a personal interest in avenging last year’s defeat because most of them are newcomers. But with" the memory of that lost opportunity of a national championship still fresh, and with the power and finesse they displayed in Colonel Ruppert’s Recreation Rink last Saturday we don’t think the Irish will have too much trouble stopping Messrs. Heap, Toth, et al.
•
Every year when the ungentle west wind begins to sweep across the golf course and Al Bride gets out his ear-muffs, there is circulated around the campus with vicious persistence, the rumor that Notre Dame is going to have a hockey team. As a freshman reporter we practically wore our legs out up to the knee chasing after the manager of minor sports in an effort to run down the rumor to its source. But there was no team. Ditto the second year. Ditto the third year. Now, after all that trouble, we are hearing the rumor again. It makes us feel like screaming. To those who are wondering, let us say that there probably won’t be any team. To those who seem to think that the sport should be a recognized one before anyone puts a skate on the ice, let us point to the custom of the University of waiting for a few results before such action.
•
As announced last week, we did a little predicting on our own. The results weren’t bad either, by cracky! In fact we were so good that we seriously considered putting Wally Fromhart on the shelf. But 'that gentleman has been over in Walsh Hall all week beating his head on the floor outside our room, calling himself an ungrateful dog for ever abandoning the cause, and whimpering for just another chance. So, with characteristic generosity we unbend and let the sage of Sorin again go to work. Here we go. Lights, Camera, Music!!!
•
NOTRE DAME over NORTHWESTERN
In their final appearance of the season the Notre Dame B team dropped a 16-6 decision to the University of Illinois B team.
The first thirty minutes of play found the Irish B’s scoring once, and dominating the play in such a manner that there seemed to be no doubt as to the outcome. After the intermission the Ulini opened up with the famed Zuppke complicated plays which buffaloed the Pojman lads.
The Irish countered early in the second quarter to take the lead. Nichol to Sadowski were good for two completed passes to the Ulini 16 yard line. After switching goals at the quarter Crowe crossed up the opposition with a quarterback sneak for a touchdown.
After an exchange of kicks the Irish threatened again with -an entirely new team on the field. They marched deep into Illini territory only to have an attempted pass from Schultz to Nardone knocked to the ground.
Notre Dame seemed headed for a sure score soon after the second half opened but again a pass went astray. From then on it was all Illinois. A pass from Burris to Wehrli placed the ball on the Irish five yard line, and on the next play Burris carried the ball over. Leonette’s kick was good, and the Illini were leading 7-6.
In the final quarter the open type play of the boys from Illinois was too much for the Irish. The ball was worked into scoring territory, and Wehrli then went through the line for another six pointer. The kick for the extra point was again made by Leonette.
The Illini collected two more points when an Irish fumble bounced over the goal line and went out of the playing field for a safety.
The lineups: ILLINOIS “B”	NOTRE DAME “B”
Brown over Colby
California over Stanford Catholic U. over West Maryland Texas A & M over Centenary Illinois over Chicago
Detroit over North Dakota Duquesne over Marquette
Fordham over Georgia
Georgia Tech over Florida Iowa State over Drake Manhattan over Villanova Michigan State over Arizona Nebraska over Kansas State Ohio State over Michigan Princeton over Dartmouth Purdue over Indiana
. Klemp ---------------End------------ Sadowski
Watson  ------------Tackle------------- Cavalier
Geister -----------Guard_______________ Foster
Turnbull ------------Center.__________ Campbell
Bruder---------------Guard---------L._Kennedy
Hummer--------------Tackle.______________ Foley
Ebbett -------------....End_____________Broscoe
Leonette _____________Q.B________________ Crowe
Burris--------------..L.H......______ Borowski
Wehril-------------™R.H...._:_________ Nichol
Brown----;--------F.B--------- Hambley
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
19
TEAMS BATTLE TOMORROW FOR SHILLELAGH GIVEN BY HEAD OF THE IRISH FREE STATE FOR NOTRE DAME-WILDCAT SERIES
Tomorrow’s game may be the last hurdle for Northwestern to a National Championship; it may be the opportunity for Notre Dame to score the biggest upset of the year and place them near the top of the football pile; but besides these vital things there is one other matter that' the Irish and Wildcats will fight about. That is a matter of a good old-fashioned shillelagh.
It has long been a tradition among rival colleges to have a trophy which they exchanged according to their varying fortunes of the sport. Purdue and Indiana have their Old Oaken Bucket, which, incidentally they shall fight for tomorrow, and Michigan and Minnesota are famous for their Little Brown Jug rivalry. It was thought to have some such trophy at Notre Dame.
On the occasion of a visit to Ireland, Hugh O’Donnell of the Notre Dame Club of New York, asked Gerald Cosgrove, president of the Irish Free State to present a Shillelagh to Notre Dame for an athletic trophy, and this he did.
The Shillelagh take's its name from the Barony of Shillelagh of the
CAN’T SMOKE A PIPE?
THEN YOU NEVER SMOKED A
SOMETHING WONDERFUL GOES ON INSIDE:
tobacco.
•ISO CIGARETTE
AND
THE ONLY PATENTED "CELLOPHANE"- SEALED FILTER-IT REALLY FILTERS
IOVEL t STANDARD SHAPES
FINEST
9 ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CAN BUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
CIGAR
MOLDERS
FILTER-COOLED ^a/nK MEDICO
This simple appear* ing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeeps juices andflakes inFilter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite,raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetastesnd
County of Wickford, which is noted for its oaks. Originally the Shillelagh was a primitive war weapon which the Irish for want of arms used' against their invaders. It was fashioned from a thick piece of oak or blackthorn with a round large knob at one end tapering down at the other so that it could be swung by the hands. Later it came to be applied to any walking stick of black oak or blackthorn.
No tourist to Ireland felt that his visit there was authentic unless he brought home several to distribute among his friends. The Shillelagh presented by former president Cosgrove was mounted with an inscribed silver band. Upon arrival at Notre Dame the rival picked to share the trophy was Northwestern because the Wildcats were one of our oldest and most formidable rivals.
At the football testimonial banquet last year, in honor of Northwestern, held at the University club, Coach .Layden formally presented it to the Wildcats for the first time in the existence of the Shillelagh because of their victory over the Irish last year. There our Shillelagh reposes until—
Manheim Pocket Slide Rule $1.00
With A-B-C-D Scales. Multiplies, divides, squares, takes square root, finds circumference and area of circles. 6 inches long— thin construction. Stainless steel back. NO WOOD or CELLULOID. Fits in vest pocket. Send $1.00 in cash, money order, or check and receive slide rule with genuine leather case and instructions—write to: Dept. N. D.
M. MANHEIM COMPANY, INC. 15 East 26th St., New York, N. Y.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Football Practice
With their eyes on the possibility of toppling Northwestern off the seat of a National Championship, the Irish quickly set about their practice chores this week with a renewed vigor.
During the week much stress was placed upon the sharpening of the offense in anticipation of the encounter with the much vaunted purple defense. The line, play was given a great deal of attention. Blocking received its portion of emphasis in order to maintain the coordination shown against the charging cadet forwards. Tackling, however, was the main dish of the menu served up to the lineman in preparation for the . streaky wildcat backs.
Another department that received considerable attention was the pass defense. In the Army game this was noticeably weak in spots and steps have been taken to remedy the situation.
. Time was devoted to down-field tackling in order to avoid any repiti-tion of what occured in last week’s game when Monk Meyer ran a punt -back for 65 yards, for Army’s only score of the game. A similiar occurrence in the Northwestern game might prove disastrous.
From The Files of The "Scholastic”
Oct. 25, 1879—The Preps have three canary-birds and one mockingbird in their study-hall.	•
Oct. 23, 1880—The use of tobacco by the students under any shape or form is strictly prohibited except to those of the Senior Department. Chewing is prohibited to all.
Oct. 22, 1881—The weather has been so bad during the past week as to prevent the Cadets from having their daily drill.
Oct. 21, 1882—The store and barber-shop in the Gymnasium are being put in order.
Oct. 24, 1885—It is expected that the new dynamo will arrive in a few days, and then the incandescent light will be in full blast.
Oct. 23, 1886—The regular weekly edition of The Scholastic, is now 1200 copies. Give us a little boom and make it an even 2000.
Oct. 22, 1887—Local Item: Whistling is. vulgar.
Oct. 27, 1888—Steam was turned on for the first time in Sorin Hall Thursday.
Oct. 26, 1889—Lemonade, we are sorry to have to say, is still high, speaking from a financial point of view.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
DOUGLAS
WINS WITH
EXPERT BOOTING.'
A game may depend on someone’s ability to handle leather • for sixty minutes. Douglas has handled leather successfully for sixty years!
Douglas Shoes won lasting popularity by their All-Leather Construction; by keeping up-to-the-minute in Style; by giving remarkable value at economical prices.
If you want good-looking shoes that are comfortable, shoes that wear, join the Douglas fans. A three-dimensional fitting will show you why our combination-Style, All - Leather and Economy-remains unbeaten season after season!
Introducing—Fred Mundee
(Continued from Page 16)
on the varsity. So this year he went in with practically no experience except what he had gleaned from much bench duty in his first two years. It seems though that his bench duty had been sufficient for in the first two games this year his comparative inexperience was noticed by no one.
In the Ohio State game of this year, Fred must have had a fine reunion with old friends. Kabealo and Antenucci of the Buckeyes were old friends of his from the high school days and Fred had his opportunity to show them what a mistake they made when they didn’t come to Notre Dame.
Prior to this year Mundee had planned to be a big business man when he got out of Notre Dame but the lure of the presses must have enticed him for now we find him a Journalism major and apparently doing well at it.
Summer times he has alternated between attending summer school at Notre Dame and attending the beaches of Youngstown as a Life Guard. The young maids of Youngstown must follow Notre Dame’s football season with more than the average amount of attention, since Fred has guarded their lives all summer.
Irish Beat Army
(Continued from Page 15)
one of Craig’s heaves on the Army 17-yard line. Wilke and Danbom collaborated in lugging the ball to the Army 5-yard line from where Puplis carried it over on a quarter back sneak. Puplis also kicked the extra point and Notre Dame led, 20 to 0.
After the third touchdown was scored, the Irish reserve went into the game. Army put on a scoring drive
|III1IIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^^
and reached the Notre Dame 10-yard line. The Irish held for downs and the third Army scoring thrust was frustrated. The Army was not to be denied, however; and in the fourth quarter Monk Meyer caught an Irish punt on his own 45-yard line and squirmed 55 yards for a touchdown. It was a brilliant run and offered some measure of consolation to the sorrowful Army followers. Kopcsak’s try for the extra point was no good, and the final score was Notre Dame 20; Army 6.
$^.00 $g.00 $5.85 DOUGLAS ALL LEATHER CONSTRUCTION
: “Mortimer, just look at Stuyvesant—the lone wolf of the Union Club, n ■ He hasn’t joined the swing to TWENTY GRAND!” J
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE
(KV SOUTH BEND)
210 SO. MICHIGAN STREET (Open Saturday Evening"*
DOUGLAS MEN’S SHOES $4, $5, $5.85 MEN’S *NORMAL TREDS .... $7 ^Patented, Corrective, Scientific Features
VICTOR C. ASTONE, N. D. Representative
10
■iiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiniiniiiiM
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish andDomestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
Plus local, tax states
(Signed) Plltt Si Rusby Inc. Analytical Laboratories (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
Northwestern Prewrite
(Continued from Page 17) be putting forth the fight of which they have shown themselves capable on at least two occasions this season.
Eleven senior monogram men will be making their last appearance on home grounds. Of these, eight are considered first string. They include O’Neill, Steinkemper, Lautar, Mun-dee, Cronin, Wilke, Wojcihovski, and Danbom. Their attitude against the Purple invasion need hardly be expressed.
Irish hopes were buoyed up to a great extent last Saturday when, in a magnificent charge, the Laydenmen cut down a favored Army team 20 to 6. Besides this, the possibility of putting a Notre Dame team on the field at full strength for the first time since the opener this season, makes prospects assume a lighter hue. Larry Danbom’s shoulder received no further setback during the activities Saturday, and Wojcihovski, Kopczak, and Miller demonstrated that they are able to be up and around.
Northwestern’s success this season seems to be based on their team’s all-around balance. They are not outstanding in any one department of play, but they are consistently good in all of them.
Their line is a hard charging unit. The ends are fast and clever. John Kovatch in particular has shown his fieetness and versatility. Besides catching passes, he carries the ball on an end around play which seldom fails to gain. Against Michigan, this play set up the lone Purple touchdown with a 30 yard gain.
The backfield is exceedingly versatile. Probably the most dangerous individual figure is Don Heap at left half, a shifty runner as well as a good plunger. It was he who scored the winning touchdown against Notre Dame last year.
Steve Toth, who plays regular fullback, is an excellent kicker, as the Irish well remember from last year. But he is not to be overlooked as a ball-carrier as well. In the Michigan game, Northwestern got the ball on the Wolverine 6 yard line, late in the fourth quarter. Four successive times Toth rammed into the line before he finally found himself stretched across the goal line. It was a magnificent display of stamina and courage.
In the final analysis, tomorrow’s contest will be a great, heart-warming struggle between a huge, clawing Wildcat and a doughty fighting Irishman. If the Purple Wildcat wins, he will have proved to Notre Dame and to the nation that he is truly a champion. On the other hand, if, at the end of the battle, the proud colors of the man of Erin wave victoriously, he will have shown the world that the Irish still know how to fight, and Notre Dame will have had a successful season.
John McCormack
(Continued from Page 4) ough Street Cathedral choir in Dublin for §125 a year. In 1925, he was offered §10,000 for one phonograph record by an American company.
He has been engaged by the Manhattan Opera Company, the Chicago-Philadelphia Opera Company, the Chicago Grand Opera Company, the Metropolitan Opera Company, the Monte Carlo Opera Company, -and has appeared as guest with the Boston Grand Opera Company, and the Champ Elysses in Paris.
Mr. McCormack’s vast popularity was increased among the masses by his numerous concert tours, his phonograph recordings, his radio broadcasts and his sympathetic interpretation of the role “Sean” in the movie, “Song of My Heart.”
Other musical celebrities who are scheduled to make appearances at the Palace Theatre in the near future are: Gladys Swarthout, Frank Forest, Daniel Ericourt, the noted French pianist and composer, Truidi Schoop and her Comic Ballet, Father Lach’s Symphonic Boys Band and the Ballet Busse. All performances are under the sponsorship of the Concert Guild of South Bend.
StNIOR
SMOKE*
HYA, FROSH? TAKING UP A MAN’S ^MOKE,EH?
YES. BUT 1
A PIPE THE WAY YOU SENIORS 00.
YOU WILL...ONCE YOU TRY A LOAD OFTHE COLLEGE MANS
SAY! THATS A REAL SMOKE!

Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE HEEL TOO!
15£
A TIN
ifnjpptd
MILO DOWN TO THE HEEL
ACT NOW! AMAZING POUCH VALUE!
$1OO POUCH IN YOUR COLLEGE COLORS FOR 10^
• • • and one inside white paraflin wrapper from a tin of Edgeworth Jr. We make this amazing offer of a §1.00 English Type Folding Pouch in Rep Cloth with Rubberized Liner for only 10 c and one wrapper just to persuade you to try Edgeworth Jr. Buy a tin of Edgeworth Jr. today. Take out the inside wrapper. Send the wrapper and your dime together with this coupon (or write your name, college and address on the wrapper)—and we will send your pouch immediately. Only one to a customer.
SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER
Laras & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.	—
Enclosed find 10e and one inside white I paraffin wrapper from a tin of Edgeworth ■ Jr., for which send me $1.00 value silk * tobacco poach in my college colors. ■
Name.
Address.
City -COLLEGE
State.
Offer good for only 30 day* *
22	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
Start Of Basketball
(Continued from Page 17) his recent infirmities and he has hopes of returning to the squad in the next few weeks. This emergency has necessitated the temporary removal of the high-scoring Johnny Moir from forward to center. Further additions to the team are to come from members of the football team, among them being Sweeney, Gleason, Brown, Sidowski, and Borowski. However it will take these boys until the
Was My Face
RED/
. and that South Shore electric train just crept up on me and passed me by — and me with eight cylinders and super high test gas! So when we got to Chicago I says, ‘I guess I’ll go via South Shore Line next time.’ Now I’m sticking that extra money in my pocket.”

middle of December to reach full stride.
In a reminiscent mood Coach Keo-gan turned the calendar of his thoughts back to- last season. He spoke of his two stellar guards Frank Wade and George Ireland, Marty Peters at center, along with Johnny Ford and Johnny Hopkins at forwards. The team will miss these players immensely. Who can forget the fine teamwork, floorplay, and tricky defensive tactics of Johnny Ford? Or the long swish-net shots of George Ireland at the crucial points of many games? Or the spectacular double pivot of the ever-striving Marty Peters? Or the great exhibition of goal-shooting by Johnny Hopkins at the N. Y. U. game last year? Or the miraculous ball-stealing antics of Frank Wade? Each of these men has left his indelible mark on Notre Dame basketball score sheets and
AT YOUR DEALER
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
On The Enemies1 Trail
TO DATE:
Northwestern has defeated Iowa, North Dakota, Ohio State, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan.
Southern California has defeated Oregon State, Oregon, Illinois, and Stanford. It has tied Washington State. It was defeated by California, and Washington.
THIS WEEK:
Northwestern plays Notre Dame.
Southern California does not play this week. •
their deeds should serve in large measure as the inspiration for the Fighting Irish of the coming season. Last season it was 22 won with only two lost. What it will be this time is up to the boys who are out there on the floor now developing impetus for their season.
Northwestern Writer
(Continued from Page 15)
ances against Wisconsin and Michigan. . . . One could hardly call them disappointing. . . . They used straight football in the Badger tilt and the same against the Wolverines. . . . They were evidently saving their plays for the Irish! At Ann Arbor, they gained 299 yards as against 61 for Michigan. . . . But we would say that Notre Dame has a definite psychological edge. . . . The Irish have everything to gain, while the Cats have everything to lose. . . . Layden’s men have been up and coming ever since the Pittsburgh disaster. ... We doff our hats to them and to the Notre Dame student body. . . . We understand that the students turned out to meet the team upon their return from Pittsburgh and cheered them. ... A team with that spirit and that support may be down but they’re never out. ...	'
It has been said that this year’s edition of the Irish is an in-and-out ball club. One week they’re champions, next week they’re average. But one cannot consider this in a game with Northwestern. We at the Evanston institution have a sneaking suspicion that “Elmer’s boys” have been laying for us since a certain afternoon last November! It should be tough—plenty tough. If we were to hazard a guess as to the probable star of the approaching conflict, we would name Fred Vanzo. Watch Number 19 for an exhibition of blocking and defensive football. Number 22 will be Don Heap, who spelled doom for the Irish last year. May the best club win!!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 20, 1936.
HESTER OF BROWNSON WINS X-COUNTRY INTERHALL MEET
•
Running steadily and with an easy gait, Hester of Brownson Hall, won the 1936 interhall cross - country championship in the good time of 11:55. Despite the fact that Hester led most of the way, the race was remarkably close. Wilber Johnson, of the Old Infirmary, was second, and Schickel, of Cavanaugh, ran third.
Others finishing among the first nine, all of whom will receive medals for their efforts, were, in the order of finishing: Martin, St. Sdward’s; Garvin, Brownson; Gleason, St. Edward’s; Walter Johnson, Freshman; Payne, Cavanaugh; and Rogers, St. Edward’s.
Brownson not only has the individual winner, as the team prize also went to the boys who sleep in the eastern wing beneath the Golden Dome. The St. Edward’s Hall hill-and-dalers were runners-up for this award.
Though intramural cross - country has its merits, Track Coach John Nicholson goes on record as hoping for a return of a varsity team next year.
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks ...	.
we're headquarters for Arrow gifts
Ellsiunrtlfs
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner"
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
Nothing short of comfort!
You'll never know real comfort until you try Arrow Shorts. Tailored, with ample room for action. Seamless crotch—no binding or pulling, —long-wearing fine fabric. Sanforized shrunk. See your Arrow dealer today.	-
Shorts 65^ up
Undershirts 500 up
chesterfield
You know that a cigarette can be mild; that is, when you smoke it it’s not harsh or irritating.
You know that a cigarette can have a pleasing taste and aroma.
When you smoke a cigarette and find that it has the right combination of mildness, good taste, and aroma, it just seems to satisfy you... gives you what you want.
I smoke Chesterfield all the time, and they give me no end of pleasure
;©J.?3j6, Liggett & myers Tobacco.coj