

Can't figure out what to write? 
more 120 years, 
Please send _ years of Scholastic to: Name:___________ 


Notre Dame's 
Address:·------~---­

City:._____State:_Zip:___ excuse not to 
Please make checks payable to : write home. Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years = $_ 



Scholastic 
Cashing in on the 'Canes Although Du Lac and administration officials ban them, illicit T­shirt sales are at an all time high before the Miami game. By Julie Costantini Page 8 Peace on Campus The International Institute for Peace Studies offers students a major alternative. By Laura Gritz/ Page 5 Studying Abroad Students from all over the world have come to study in the peace program. By Laura Gritz/ Page 6  
Features Visiting the Old Sod Some Notre Dame students spent a year in Ireland learning about the real Irish. By Matt O'Donnell/ Page 20  
Departments Week in Distortion We're So Sorry, Uncle Jimmy. /Page 2 On Other Campuses Penn State officials ban pornographic films./ Page 4 Music Jon Bon Jovi uses these to make big money, but Billy Bragg opts for socialism./Page 3 Final Word Dismas House resident Paul Burke writes about his home off-campus./ Page 22 Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area./ Page 18 Ernie Pook's Comeek "Our Favorite Thing" /Page 24 Life in Hell  
Editorial You make the call The decision to exercise calm against Miami is up to the students. /Page 23  

Week In Distortion/ Mike Keegan 
-


We're So Sorry, Uncle Jimmy 
Notre Dame students should be more appre­ciative ofMiami coach Jimmy Johnson, ac­cording to resident nice guy Mike Keegan 
A s oflate, there has been a variety of attacks by many Notre Dame students directed toward the Uni­versity of Miami's football program and, in particular, toward its head football coach, James Johnson. Many of these attacks have been unfounded critical statements that be­little the compassionate, respectful character Johnson has developed over the past few years. Johnson does not deserve these negative accusations. In fact, he deserves just the opposite. Johnson needs to be immortalized and congratulated for the development of a "classy" football program. This article takes the time to apologize for the iniquities Johnson and his team suffer at the hands of the "classless" Notre Daine students. 
First, James, an apology is necessary for the shirt insulting a certain part of your anatomy. The shirt reads, "Jimmy (Has No) Johnson." Whoever created and designed the concept for this T-shirt obviously has not been an avid Notre Dame football fan over the past four years. Jimmy Johnson, by destroying and running up the score against Notre Dame 58-7 in 1985, exhibited a lot of courage. As a matteroffact, James shows no fear and actually likes running up the score. Such a slanderous T-shirt has no room to be you to campus. That particular phone call was representative of the small, minority view on campus. The majority of students here at Notre Dame kneel down at night and pray that Miami runs up the score on power­houses like East Carolina University and Big Ten terror Wisconsin. 

Finally, this game is being billed by some misinformed students as the Catholics of Notre Dame versus the Convicts of Miami. This billing, however, veils the true person-i alities of each campus. Was it the Univer­sity of Miami who had 250 students either ticketed or arrested by officers at Lee's Ribs 
1 

in the greatest college bar riot ever? Was it · 

sold on such an ethical campus. For this, James, wearesorry. Keepupthegoodrouts. 
Second, a certain Notre Dame freshman interrupted your busy schedule a few weeks back to say, "I am avoiding the rush, I hate you. We are going to kill you." James understandingly replied, "Dream on." This student's statement is completely outofline and the content of the message of this phone call is grounds for immediate dismissal from the University of Notre Dame. Re­member, DuLac, or is it the Bible (what's the difference?), says that "when an oppos­ing football team runs up the score or leaves the starting team in for the whole game just to rub mud in the face of a lame-duck coach, then Notre Dame students and football play­ers should not hate the other team. In fact, students and players should tum the other cheek and say, 'That's okay coach Jimmy, slap the other one.'" 
The students here at Notre Dame don't hate you Jirnmy, we love you and welcome a student from Miami who stuck out his tongue at a cop last month, thus "provok­ing" the release of a police dog? Was it students from the University of Miami who violated the local noise ordinance? Of course it wasn't. These heinous crimes, which took place right here in South Bend, were perpetrated by the Convicts of Notre Dame, an ever-growing band of ND misfits who live on the edge. For the misconstrued billing, we apologize. The game should be hyped as the Misdemeanors vs. the Felo­nies. 

So Jimmy, we truly apologize for all the inaccurate statements that have developed over the past three years. Such maligning comments have no place in college foot­ball, much less on a Catholic campus such as ours. · But, remember Jimmy, as Ara Parseghian once said, "from these ashes a pheonix will rise." I just have to wonder, though, what will rise from your ashes this weekend? Humility, maybe? ti 



Music/ Scott Sullivan 



Hair and Hedonism 
Jon Bon J ovi uses these to make big money, but Billy Bragg employs a different system: socialism 
A t a certain point of departure, credit needs to be given where it is due. I struggled with my own sense of musical judgement in finally admit­ting to myself that Jon Bon Jovi is one smart guy, and, I guess, musician. But he's sinarter than he is talented, which, in his case, is not bad. Hear me out. The guy is doing something that most people don't even consider work. Sure, it's proba­bly none too easy, but he looks like he's enjoying it. I'd love writhing around on a stage in front of thou­sands of screaming adolescents once or twice in a lifetime, too. And look at the fringe benefits. Remember MTV's "Hedonism Weekend with Bon Jovi"? Not bad. And he's got millions of chicks (teenagers or not), millions of dollars and has been dubbed as the man with the best hair in rock and roll. His biggest asset must be his hair. Think about it, it's quite a concept in our present world of music. Hair is the first thing any ~ self-respecting__ heavy-metal band / 
thinks about. So I guess from here on ou , hair is music, as well as music being hairy. It's a matter of preference. There was a musical called Hair, wasn't there? Remem­ber Nazereth' s Hair ofthe Dog ? Bon Jovi presents a look that sells. 
No, I didn't buy their new album, but I do like some of their other stuff, and Wanted Dead or Alive is on my all-time list. The pointis thatMr. Bon Jovi is a smart business­man. He brings the consumer into the studio to tell him what's appealing, and what will sell. He admits to this. He's not proud, but he is very wealthy. It's a dog eat hair world out there and Bon Jovi is licking its collec­tive chops at the zillions ofrecords it's going to sell with New Jersey (I feel like quite an innovator, reviewing their album without ever having listened to it). I guess that's sort of an inverse catch-22. No matter what it sounds like, it will probably sell. Musical integrity set aside, Bon Jovi is not stupid. Marketing hair and hedonism along with 
some decent music ain't a bad way to make a living. 
Billy Bragg doesn't have near enough hair to market. He markets socialism, more or less. Whereas Bon Jovi is an ultimate capitalist, the cover of Billy Bragg's new album Workers Playtime proclaims "Capi­talism is killing music." Old Billy probably thinks like Neil Young when it comes to corporate sponsorship and mass produc­tion. Musical integrity is what Bragg is after, I guess. He exploits his assets differ­ently than Bon Jovi. 
It's obvious that social justice is on his mind. "Rotting on Remand" addresses the story of a man sent to an overcrowded, outdated jail for a crime he didn't commit. 
"Waiting for the Great Leap Forwards" proclaims "So join in the struggle while you may/The revolution is just at-shirt away." The album cover is like the cover ofa do-it­yourself socialism pamphlet. Archetypal pictures ofworkers in harmony and Chinese symbols are everywhere. 
As Billy Bragg gets older, he gets more visible in his fight for social­ism, but his music is not hindered. The same rich acoustic and electric guitar chords and breaks that he started on Life's a Riot remain, and Bragg's heavy cockney accent is complemented by background vo­cals (Michelle Shocked among oth­ers). This album takes Talking with the Taxman about Poetry one step further. The horns, piano, harmon­ica, and guitars combine to create more memorable and catchy tunes in the mold of "Levi Stubbs Tears" from his previous effort. 
Billy Bragg is more than an opin­ionated Brit. The album has its share of love songs as well. "Life with the Lions" is memorable both 
musically and lyrically. Jazzy piano and drums overlap acoustic guitar, and the lyr­ics are especially poignant: "I hate the arse­hole I become/ Everytime I'm with you." For a great mellow ballad "The Only One" uses only acoustic guitar and, of all things, a cello to back Bragg's lament: "The chain that fell off my bike last night/Is now wrapped around my heart." Great imagery, huh? 
All in all, Billy Bragg gives his best collection of songs yet on Workers Play­time. It includes everything from socialist rhetoric to a cappella war songs ("Tender Comrade") to love ballads. But I think hair and hedonism are easier to sen.Ill· 

On Other Campuses 

Penn State Takes It Off 
Despite big profits and much interest, officials at Pennsylvania State University eliminate pornographic flicks from the college film repertoire 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
f porn State" censored! It has been decided that Linda Lovelace and John C. Holmes will no longer be allowed to grace movie screens at Pennsylvania State University. 
The Weekly Collegian reports that the Association of Residence Hall Students at Penn State has decided that it will no longer sponsor X-rated movie showings on campus. From 1980 to the spring semester of 1988 the ARHS had sponsored these lewd and immoral showings, but recently they decided to cease their support of these films at the encouragement of many opposition groups. It was said 

that the movies were also discontinued because they began to lose money after The Daily Collegian (the campus paper) stopped advertising them. Before this, the skin revealing pictorials were said to have grossed as much as $2000 a weekend.... Nothing better to do, I guess. And we thought we had it bad. 
When the going gets tough ... the programs get going. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that for the second time since 1984, Saint Peter's College has cancelled its football season due to a lack ofplayers. Hours before the 34-member squad was to take the field against Iona College for its season opener, officials at Saint Peter's decided it would be too dangerous for the squad to play against much larger teams. And Kent State has cancelled its 1988­89 men's ice hockey season after criminal charges were filed against 12 team members. Seven upper class members and five freshmen were charged in a hazing incident recently. The upperclassmen ap­parently escorted the freshman to a party and induced them to become rather inebriated. They then proceeded to attempt to ready them for the big upcoming season by shaving their heads in a Mohawk-style fashion. 

Cup-Throwers: Beware. Officials at West Virginia University have ruled that students who are caught throwing cups during football games face the long arm of the campus security police. Students caught are subject to revocation of their university identi­fication cards, theNational On-Campus Report revealed. On a first offense, the offender is allowed to stay and continue to view the game. A second offense, however, warrants eviction from the stadium or arrest ... and in extreme cases death by slow torture. 
''Use Your Condom Sense" was the billing title for a party thrown by the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity house at Southwest Texas State University last month. The party was to protest a university-wide ban on the dispensing or prescribing of contraceptives. The party, which featured condoms as party favors, followed a pep rally in which the fraternity members distributed condoms to the student body despite the contraceptive ban. The fraternity said that it decided to give the party to protest the ban and also to raise awareness of the rieed to practice safe sex. 
Panty raid is anything but brief. Members of the Sigma Alpha Mu fraternity at the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana took off on a rather adventurous endeavor the other .week. As many as fifty fraternity members allegedly entered six sororities, stole clothing, and abducted one sorority member in a panty raid that lasted most of the evening, the Daily Illini reported. 
It's tough being a moose on campus. At the University of Wiscon­sin-Superior last week a bull moose wandered on the campus and could not be convinced to leave. The College Press Service reports the moose, a 1,000 pound animal, showed up on the Wisconsin campus and wandered into a fenced lot behind a Natiqnal Guard armory. It attracted many curious spectators who did not help the situation by throwing rocks at the moose. These spectators, how­ever, became outraged when a police officer, after unsuccessfully attempting to coax the moose off campus, shot and killed the animal. ... Oh, now there's a solution.II 



STUDYING ABROAD 

Students have come from all over the world to take part in a peace studies 
BY LAURA GRITZ 
erhaps one of the most interna­
P· 


tional organizations on Notre 
Dame's campus is the International Scholars Program, a group comprised of 13 students from 9 countries. These students spend ayear here participating in peace stud­ies together and compiling a paper telling their view of how they want the world to be. 
"I love the program," said Emil Bolon­gaita, from the Philippines. "It's basically what I was looking for when I came here. I realized that the program is loose in that the students can design their own programs." 
Bolongaita is joined by another student from the Philippines, plus one each from the West Bank, Chile, Ghana, Israel and Japan. The program also requires that the group include two students each from China, the United States and the U.S.S.R. 
Requirements for admission to the full­scholarship program include completion ofa baccalaureate degree, fluency in English, high academic achievement and being under 27 years of age. 
The thirteen scholars, seven women and six men, live in single rooms in "Interna­tional Peace House," located in a back wing of Columba Hall, which sits at the start of Saint Mary's Road near Saint Mary's Lake. 
Anne Hayner, the program's administra­tor, said that living together enhances the scholars' experience. "I think it's essential because I think the idea of community build­ing is critical to the concept of peace studies," she said. "It's not just your ideology on the 
progam at Notre Dame 
Middle East, but also who picks up the coffee 
cups, who picks up the newspapers. On the 
one level you may disagree with someone on 
politics but get along with them fine." 
"It's just enough privacy and just enough 
communal living," said Felicia Leon, an 
American from West Virginia. "It's like a 
microcosm of the global environment. Hav­
ing a Filipino or an Israeli living across from 
you makes you more aware of that country." 
Every week, the thirteen scholars hold 
house meetings, which are basically the same 
as donn section meetings. They also partici­
pate in socialand educational activities to­
gether, including watching films, hearing 
lectures and taking trips to Chicago. · 
But most of their time, they say, is spent 
studying. "We 're really inundated with stu.d­
ies," said Susan Hixon, another American. · 
Still, the scholars say they are benefitting . from the program. 
"I think I can benefit from it in three 
ways," said Liang Zhu, from China. "First, 
you can meet people from other countries. 
Second, I think the University ofNotreDame 
is one of the top universities in the U.S. And, 
third, we are going to travel around the coun­
try to Washington D.C. and New York. It's 
a good opportunity." 
"Coming to America was a dream to me,'\. 
said Jamal Abu-attiyeh, from the J enin Refu­
gee Camp in the West Bank. "I was an 
English teacher in my home and I wanted to 
live in an environment where people speak 
English. In addition, I wanted to learn about 
other cultures and contribute to this program 
as much as I can." 

The two Russian students, Vitaly Rassolov 
and Oleg Vasilyev, both came from the 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technol­
ogy. They said their main problem with the 
program is speaking English. "They may 
know how to say 'electrical engineering' in 
English but not 'coercive force,"' Hayner 
said. 

"It's very difficult because our English is 
not so good and sometimes we can't under­
stand" said Vasilyev. The two Russians are 
.also getting used to American culture. 
Americans have "very free behavior,'' said 
Rassolov. Vasilyev cites as an example: "In 
the Soviet Union, it's very unusual to sit in a 
library with your feet on the desk." He also 
said that only young men wear shorts-no 
older people or young girls do. 
But learning about such things is one ofthe 
very advantages of the program, says Maile 
Gallego, from the Philippines. She said she 
values "the cross-cultural experiences, so it 
broadens one's perspective." 
For their year <>f study here, the scholars 
will earn a certificate in international peace 
studies, and most ofthem will stay on to earn 
a master's degree in peace studies. Their 
goals for the future vary from wanting to get 
involved in politics to becoming teachers. 
For now, they will continue their peace 
studies and work toward completion of the 
paper outlining their feelings about how they 
would like the world to be. They welcome 
visitors and are eager to talk about the pro­
gram. Says Hixon, "Come over and ring the 
doorbell and say, 'Hi, I'm interested in know­. ing what you are."¦ 




EON PUS 
The International Institute for Peace Studies offers students an alternative 


BY LAURA GRITZ

W hen the International Institute for Peace Studies (IIPS) was established last year, there was some skepticism about its meaning and pur­pose. As John Gilligan, its director, says, "I think the word peace conjures up an image of long-haired people dancing around a may­pole smoking pot" Now, however, Gilligan says the institute has been accepted. "It's understood generally throughout the campus that this is serious and important workthat needs to be done, especially in a Catholic in­stitution," he said. The purpose of the institute is "to educate people, faculty and students, about the reali­ties oflife in the world today and to help them realize the role they must play in this common existence," Gilligan said. The institute strives "to help individuals to form their consciences on these questions of war and peace," he added. The institute' s basic educational offering is the concentration in peace studies. Currently, about 70 to 75 students have declared the concentration, which involves five courses 

second concentration 

(15 · hours) of work taken in two or more departments of the university. Everyone begins with "Introduction to Peace Studies,'' but the remaining hours in the concentration concern the student's chosen focus, such as "strategies for social change" or "history and 

practice ofnon-violence." The institute's 42 courses are cross-listed with other colleges and include such common ones as interna­tional relations and social psychology. 
The courses are taught by regular faculty 
• 
members from the four colleges. These pro­fessors normally teach 16 different disci­plines, from physics to theology. 
"[The courses] presented views much dif­ferent from what I've received in my other classes,'' said Terri Proksch, a government major with a concentration in peace studies. "I think they' re very diverse. There's a lot of variety in the courses offered." Proksch said she became involved in peace studies "be­cause it was something that had always ap­pealed to me and it was something that could bring together my interests more than any strict disciplines." She has applied for a fellowship in East Asia and a position teach­ing high school in Kenya. "I would like to continue working in some sort of peace and justice work,'' she said. 
The impact of the institute is far-reaching, said Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of the university and chairman of the board of the IIPS. "It's a way of Notre Dame reaching out to the world and showing we're not just centered on this little spot in Indiana," he said. 
Original funding for the institute was pro-vided by Joan Kroc, the widow of McDonald's founder Ray Kroc. In the spring of 1985, Mrs. Kroc heard then-President Hesburgh speak in California about Notre Dame's plans for a peace institute. 



At that time, plans for the institute had been formalized by a committee at Notre Dame, but it hadn't yet come into being. Gilligan traces its beginnings to the U.S. bishops' letter, "The Challenge of Peace," issued in 1983, which led a group of Notre Dame professors to startaclass called "The Nuclear Dilemma." The class then led to the commit­tee, which recommended "a free-standing institute which would have its own financial basis, which would not belong to any college or department," Gilligan said. 
Hesburgh had promised the committee $35,000 a year for two years, but then Mrs. .Kroc offered her $6 million donation. In addition, she returned a year and a half later and gave another $6 million for a new com­plex, the Hes burgh Center for International Studies. 
By December of 1990, a piece of Green Field and a parking lot bordering Notre Dame A venue will be the site of this new center. 
There, the international concerns of Notre Dame will be based through the programs of the International Institute for Peace Studies and the Kellogg Institute, which focuses on Latin American studies. 
"It will draw together all the international activities on campus. Everything in there will be international," said Hesburgh. 
The center is currently in the stage of construction drawings, and a bid will go out in April, 1989, according to Donald Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant. Workers will begin construction in May, Dedrick said. 
The new complex will consist of three buildings. One will be a three-story office building with 50 faculty offices and space for secretarial support. Another will have 16 apartments to house visiting fellows and VIP's involved in the programs. The third building will be a multi-purpose facility centered around a 125-seat auditorium. It will also include seminar and lecture rooms, plus large dining rooms for luncheons and dinners. 
Hesburgh said he thinks the new complex will give the international programs more visibility and thus increase campus interest in them. "A lot of people know they're on campus but a lot of people don't," he said. "When they see this new building, there's going to be a lot more interest in the interna­tion~ dimensions on campus." 
"If there's anything a Catli61ic university ought to be concerned about it's justice and peace and human relations and economic and social development in the Third World," Hesburgh said. "If you put all those things together, you will have what should concern a Catholic university today in the moral dimension. These are very fundamental concerns in the world. This university can't be a little peanut in the middle oflndiana, but it has to reach out all over the world," he said.II 


Cashing in on the 'Canes 
Although bu Lac and administration officials ban them, illicit T-shirt sales are at an all-time high before the Miami game 
BY JULIE COSTANTINI 

It's a Wednesday night, you've barri­caded yourself into your room for a re­laxing night ofTV and your roommate walks in the door announcing that another pair of determined T-shirt salesmen are working their way up the hall. You find yourself with two options: start looking for your checkbook, or lock the door, shut the lights and sit very quietly while waiting for them to go away. If you've already fallen prey to a number of sales pitches and have a bank account in single digits, then you proba­bly don't have the energy to fend offanother struggling entrepeneur. You might feel a little guilty about sending them on their way, but the fact is that unauthorized T-shirt sales by studentsare notallowedby the university. Although the guidelines under merchandis­ing and fund raising state regulations regard­ing the sale of any Notre Dame clothing, private sales ofT-shirts continue with neither university sanction nor licensing. Whereas clubs and organizations must first gain ap­proval for all fund raisers from the Office of 
Student Activities, students that sell T-shirts for pers.onal profit do not go through any of these channels. 
John Goldrick, associate vice president for resident life, clarified the university's posi­tion on the sales and disciplinary actions against students found selling the shirts by supporting the established rules and reguJa: tions ofDuLac. Although he has never disci­plined a student for unauthorized T-shirt sales, Goldrick responded that "the admini­stration does not 'overlook' any of its poli-

¦ 

cies. Approval for these sales is handled by  harassment and solicitors since the halls  the_ same as the pep rallies."  
the Student Activities office."  should not be subject to that sort of traffic.  Bolcar, however, also acknowledged the  
Student Activities Director Joe Cassidy said  More than just money is at stake in the sale  tendency for the shirts to be obnoxious and  
that there have been incidents where students  of Notre Dame merchandise. "The problem  expressed concern that students must con­ 
were found selling the shirts, so he took  is not in the profit but the representation of  tinue to maintain decorum in the representa­ 
action by notifying Student Affairs. On one  the university," stated Goldrick. The con­ tion of the university. "We like to stir up  
occasion, $2,000 worth of merchandise was  cem is with the Notre Dame image, and  excitement and enthusiasm but we don't  
confiscated by Notre Dame Security and the  Goldrick finds some of the current T-shirt  want to lower ourselves to the status of a  
students came to Cassidy "crying to have  slogans "offensive and uncharacteristic of  Miami. It's important to know where to draw  
their merchandise returned." Cassidy then  the university named in the memory of the  the line," Bolcar said.  
refused to return the merchandise, in accor- Blessed Mother Mary." Cassidy also men- In reference to past T-shirt sales, Bolcar  
dance with university policy.  tioned the problem of offensive slogans say- said that he has bought some of the privately  
A student, upon being found selling un­ ing, "I have received letters and calls from  sold shirts and mentioned the "Jimmy has no  
authorized merchandise, is referred to a  alumni asking how the university could al- Johnson" shirt as being not only school spir­ 
memberof the residence  ited but pretty funny  
life staff for disciplinary  as well.  
action. Failure to com-··  What cannot be  
ply with the guidelines  overlooked, though,  
stated in the Merchan­ is the large amount of  
dising Policy will result  money that these en- 
in penalties that may in­ trepreneurs are mak­ 
clude a fine, revocation  ing in their venture.  
of the vendor's permit  One student men­ 
and/or suspension or  tioned that he knew of  
probation of the  agroupofsellersthat  
student's organization.  have netted over  
No particular punish­ $4,000 this year  
ment is mentioned re- alone and have not  
garding individual stu-.  experienced any re- 
dent sales, but DuLac  percussions thus far  
specifically states re- from the university.  
strictions against door- On the average, the  
to-door sales in the resi­ shirts are bought by  
denc~ halls. · Shirts hyping the Miami game have appeared all over campus.  the seller for $6 and  

With the amount of..._---"-'---------------------------------------'sold for $10. For sales traffic in the dorms, it may be difficult low these shirts to be sold on campus." those who purchased the Catholics v. Con­to believe that neither the R.A's nor rectors The slogans may considered by some to be victs shirt, that cost was only $4 to the seller. are aware of these actions. If they are, then offensive; however, some students seem to The general method of production prior to they, too, are overlooking the sale of the like the shirts. In anticipation of the impend-sales is similar for many sellers. Shirts are shirts. Father Michael Sullivan, rector of ing Miami game, sales are hitting a high point designed by not only Notre Dame students, Carroll Hall, said, "I have not seen them sold and sellers are cashing in on the hype. But but by students from other universities as in the hall and so far this has not been a whether or not this hype is an indication of well. Many are then silkscreened by compa­problem. They are required to have a permit school spirit for the football team remains in nies in Chicago. Next, the shirts are distrib­by student activities and, if I did see them, I question. "I haven't heard whether these uted among students and whatever is made would throw them out of the hall." shirts do anything to promote team spirit," above cost is purely profit. 
"The administration had sent out a memo-said Goldrick. This doesn't seem to bother students, randum regarding a new policy for advertis-Notre Dame football tri-captain Ned Bo!-though. Many are paying 100% above cost, ers, but a problem hasn't come up yet," said car, in response to Goldrick's statement, said but the slogans sell. NedBolcar said, "I know Joseph McKenna, rector of Sorin Hall. "Overall, it's nice to see student enthusiasm that they 're making a lot of money on these, The reason for the university's policy for and the whole atmosphere is good for team but people here learn to become business­regulating solicitations in the dorms, as spirit. I can't speak for the whole team, but I men." He saw no harm in a little personal stated by Goldrick, is to protect students from feel that this kind of student involvement is capitalism at work. ''Next year I'm making 
my own," he said jokingly.II 

HECK 
FA 
TLE 
·In the middle ofthe larger contest, Andy ,_..;;._--1' Heck and Miami's Bill Hawkins will 
Greg Kohs 

Heck has moved from tight end to tackle. square offin a trench war oftheir own 


BY JIM MAGGIO 
A 
ny college football fan who hasn't been living under a rock since last November is well aware of Saturday's long-awaited war between Miami and Notre Dame. The Hurricanes storm into town as the nation's number one­ranked team to take on the fourth-ranked Irish, a team looking to avenge two lopsided losses to Miami in the past three seasons. 
The adjectives and superlatives surround­ing the game itself (not to mention the exple­tives with Jimmy Johnson's name) have been exhausted beyond comprehensible proportions. Yet somewhere beneath the huge pile of lofty predictions, expectations, and insults that have been dumped on this game lies the core ofwhat really matters: the player matchups. 
One matchup in particular, though, fig­ures to best typify the kind ofbattle we might expect from both teams. On Saturday, Mi­ami defensive end Bill Hawkins will line up across from Notre Dame offensive tackle Andy Heck, thus signifying a clash of proven strength versus strength in the proc­ess of proving itself. 
In comparing their overall experience at their respective positions, this confrontation would figure to be a mismatch on paper. Hawkins 6-6 260 lbs. a fifth-ear senior in his third full year as a starter, is widely considered to be one of the nation's top de­fensive ends and a strong candidate for All­America honors. Heck (6-7, 277), a senior tri-captain, is a converted tight end who is seeing his first action this year at quick tackle. 
But lack of experience is not necessarily an indication of lack of ability. Although Heck is a newcomer at his position, Hawk­

. ins will take nothing for granted against him. He indicated that his approach to attacking an offense is based more on how his opponent's physical traits stack up against his own. Hawkins has been clocked at 4.78 in the 40-yard dash -identical to Heck' s time during spring drills -and is said to have "ideal size and strength for his posi­tion," according to the Hurricane's Media Guide. 
"Itdepends on the player," said Hawkins. "Ifhe's got bad feet, then I'll try to blow by him. If he posesses good speed, I'll try to combine speed and strength to beat him. If he's got speed and strength, then I try to mix it up." 
When asked what kind of player he pre­fers to square off against, Hawkins prefers the larger opponent. Heck fits that general description. 
"I like them bigger," said Hawkins. "It usually means they're slower. Hopefully, I'll have no problems with him (Heck)." 

Heck, despite the fact that he has bulked up by nearly forty pounds over last year and outweighs Hawkins by close to twenty, does not like to get too caught up in size ad­vantages, especially against players of Hawkins' ability. 
"I still think of myself as a small guy," said Heck. "I don't really look at who I'm laying. To tell you the truth, I don't 
Greg Kohs 

Heck and the Irish escaped from Pttt. 

10 


prepare any differently for him (Hawkins) or for a big guy or slow guy. I do the same things against everybody. 
"I feel he's gonna look at me and think, 'this guy's a converted tight end' and should be able to overpower me. I don't think he thinks he can run by me, so he'll probably try to power-rush." 
It often has been said that in order to play on the defensive line you have play like a maniac, whereas an offensive lineman has to learn to perform like a controlled ma­niac. If you ask Bill Hawkins and Andy Heck what frame of mind they try to keep in getting "psyched up" for a game, their answers would accurately reflect this the­ory. 
"As far as getting psy­ched up before a game, I let the crowd do it for me," ex­plained Hawkins. 
"I don't get psyched up at all," said Heck. "I try not to get psyched up. I try to approach everything the same way. Before the game, I'll think about it in such a relaxed state that I almost feel like falling asleep. I try to be mellow -otherwise, I just get tired great teams with great players like Brown and Stubbs, but I'm not as flamboyant as they were. When I take the field, I don't say anything. I just play." 
Heck is a no-nonsense type of player as well. He relies on a strong work ethic for improving his game and gives offensive tackle and tight ends coach Joe Moore a lot of credit for his steady improvement as an interior lineman. 
"He (Moore) has got a tremendous knowledge of the game, especially of how to play offensive tackle," said Heck. "He has improved my offensive blocking 100% 
When Notre Dame and Miami finally take the field on Saturday, it would be logi­cal for most to assume that the Fighting Irish will carry with them a burning desire for vengeance. By the same token, the same people might assume that the Hurri­canes will come out extremely overconfi­dent in lieu of the previous two pastings they handed the Irish down in the Orange Bowl. But that was then; Hawkins and Heck acknowledge that the present poses a whole new series of challenges for both 
"We respect every opponent all 
said Hawkins, "and Notre Dame is no exception. They are a lot better as a unit and much faster than in the past." 
"They're people just like we are," explained Heck. "They put their pants on one leg at a time, too. We have great re­spect for them because they're a great football team." 
But while Hawkins will "just try to have fun" in this, the NCAA game of the year, Heck sees the 
reg matchup as a golden op­out." 


Hawkins, an All-America candidate, has been a starter for three years. 
portunity for the Irish to 


In their fifth season under the tutelage of head coach Jimmy Johnson, the Miami Hurricanes have taken on a "renegade" persona as a football team. They have not seemed content with taking the "conven­tional" path to college football greatness, as is evident in their deployment of a pro­set offense and their reputation as an overly-flamboyant team that revels in punishing their opponents while running up the score in the process. · 
Hawkins has played alongside a couple of All-Americans in recent years, Jerome Brown and Daniel Stubbs, who were among the mor~ prominent members of a defensive unit that seemed to thrive on the renegade reputation. He is quick to point out, though, that his brand offootball is all business. 
"I don't try to emulate anyone but my­self," said Hawkins. "I've played on some since last year. Any success I'm having right now I owe all to Coach Moore. 
"The day you stop thinking you can get better is the day you're going to have to hang up the football cleats," he continued. "I'm never satisfied. I haven't looked at a game film yet where I'm satisfied with the way I played. " 
Heck also looked to players such as Tom Rehder to convince himself that he could make the switch to offensive tackle. Rehder, like Heck, was also a converted tight end. 
"That kind ofencouraged me to make the switch and made me feel better about it," said Heck. "Itwas very successful for him, and I just hope it will work out as well for me." Rehder's efforts made him a third­round draft pick ofthe New England Patri­ots in last year's National Football League draft 
convince themselves that their undefeated season is no fluke. 
"Our frame ofmind is that this is going to be the heavyweight championship fight of the world," said Heck. "This is the college game of the year. To us, it's for the national championship. We're not going to get re­ally emotional about it... we 'IIjust co~e out and h9pefully play relaxed. · 
"I'm not selling them short at all, but if we do what we 'recapable ofdoing, we can beat Miami." 
The Hurricanes may not agree, and that's their prerogative. 
But regardless of the final score, every player -Bill Hawkins and Andy Heck in­cluded -will walk away from this game firm in the knowledge that they atleastanswered the critics in the one way that speaks loudest of all, and that's on the playing field. II 




Rapp in' With Jimmy 
Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson talks about hate mail, Tony Rice and Steve Walsh 

Editor's note: The following is a transcript ofselected portions of Monday afternoon's teleconference with Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson. 
Is Tony Rice one of those guys that it will be a little harder to put pressure on or that you may pay a price if you do? 
Without question, Tony Rice gives us concern. Tony Rice is playing much more aggressively this year and is extremely impres­sive on the offense. He runs the option with very effective scram­bling, running the football and then on top of that he can be effective on a play action pass and throwing the ball to his deep receivers. That may be a key right there, you got Tony Rice runs a 4.4 (second) forty and you got wide receivers, both ofthem who run a 4.4 or better in fact I guess the freshman is under 4.3 so its the most dangerou; 
group of field players_ that I have seen from a Notre Dame football team. 
What is the biggest difference between this Notre Dame and 
the last two that you've seen? Is is strictly the speed or is there 
anything else? 

Well, I think a couple things. Notre Dame is playing with a lot of confidence and a lot of enthusiasm. But looking at the talent, anybody that's around football knows that every year Notre Dame will be as talented a team as there is anywhere in the country. And that's year in and year out. The difference in this team is not only are they extremely talented, they've got great speed. You look at the running backs according to the Notre Dame press guide and you've got Brooks and green at 4.4. You've got Rice at 4.48. You've got the wide receivers with great speed. You've got both comerbacks and thestartingfreesafetyunder4.4. Sonotonlyisitas talented team we'll see, but it's one of the fastest, especially the skill positions. They're a well-coached team. They're playing with a lot of confi­dence.
I'. 
We've been hearing about your hate mail coach, from the Notre Dame students, can you tell us a little bit about that and does it effect you or the players going into the game? 
Oh, I think some ofthis has been blown out ofproportion. I really don't pay any attention to it. 
You talk about Tony Rice's ability to run the option. You've had great success in the past against option quarterbacks like Jamelle Hollaway, how is Rice different and how is Notre Dame's option different than what you've seen against Okla­homa? 
I think with Notre Dame first of all, Rice is faster than Jamelle Holieway. On top ofthat they do other things, They have the I for­
12 

mation. They have the power game. They run their fullbacks, they have not only the option, but the traps inside, and they do throw the football. 
As far as Miami is con­cerned, have all the repercus­sions from the 58-7 game a con pie of years ago; is that all in the past? 
Well, I don't know what reper­cussions that you speak of, but without question its in the past. We played a game in the past, and i--;:.-.­we look foreword to the game this year. 
This is the first time you are going up to South Bend, the last two games were in Miami, what kind of a reception do you look for up there? 
Well in 1984 when we went up there, I felt like there was as much 
electricity in the atmosphere as ,:.f· 
any game that I have been around. Its a stadium where all the people are right on the field, and in fact, in that particular game there were a lot of seats right on the field and right next to the bench area. Be­cause of that and because of the enthusiasm I'm sure this will be as emotional game as there is going to be all year long. 

What about the off week? Were you were happy to have the so called "off wee~" right before your big games or would you rather play them right away? 
The off weeks came about because the TV schedule. The CBS sports people wanted to televise the Florida State game. Sometimes I like offweeks-especially when you have a lot ofpeople hurt. We're fairly healthy right now and the danger that you have with off weeks is that you may not be as sharp after the layoff as you were before the layoff. We were extremely sharp against Missouri. I don't know that we could have played any better than we did when we played Mis-
Scholastic 




souri here at the Orange Bowl. So, after the game, I made the statement that when you are on a roll like this, and you play as good as what we played, I'd rather play next week. But we've had good practices and I'm sure I'm sure we'll be ready to play. 
Because Notre Dame has struggled so much against you the past few ballgames, Miami really has become a focal point on their schedule. Is Notre Dame a game that your team points to­wards more than say an Oklahoma or one ofthe Florida schools? Has the rivalry taken on a special meaning? 
Without question, I think it's a special rivalry, but we have not pointed towards this game. I think the only game we pointed towards in the off-season was the Florida State game. We looked towards that 

and really didn't • 
discuss any other game other than to say that it was important forus to get off to a good start, but we really didn't talk about any game other than Flor­ida State. 
Can you describe how Steve Walsh has com­pared with other quar­terbacks you've had at Miami? 
Well, we've been very fortunate to have great quarterbacks here. They're not only great college quarterbacks, but they've performed ex­tremely well in the NFL and they're going to be great players there if they' re not already. Steve Walsh has done some­
.... thing here that falls right in with the outstanding quarterbackswe'vehad. I think when you judge a quarterback, you judge him by the number of 
------------iwins. The number-one Three faces of Jimmy Johnson way to judge a quarter­
back is the number ofpoints he puts on the board, and the number of wins or losses. And Steve Walsh right now is 16-0 as a starter. 
How is this team handling being number-one in comparison with your other teams.? Have they surprised you with how they've come together as a team? 
I've got to be a little bit surprised, because we had 12 players drafted offoflast year's team that went to the NFL and five more that signed as free agents, so when you lose 17 players off of a football team, you justdon'texpect to replace them with inexperienced young players and expect the same type ofperformance. I knew that we had talent; I knew that we had a chance to be good. I just didn'tknow how well they'd perform early and we've had some difficult early games. The other thing that I was concerned about was just how consistent they'd be. At times we've played as good as anyone in the country and at times we've played very average. As far as them handling the ranking ofnumberone, that's really not a factor. we really don't talk about ranking that much and even if we did it wouldn't affect our players. They've been numberone for so many weeks, for quite a few years, back in '86 they were number-one for 15 straight weeks. They ended up being number one after the '87 season. We were even number-oneforacoupleofweeks in the '84 season. We've ben num­ber one before and if we weren't number one, we were ranked in the top ten. Being ranked number one right now is not a factor with the team. 
You've had so much success on the road, could you discuss what goes into that a little bit? 
I think there's two things: number one, we've had talented football team, so at least we've had a chance to win. Now the only question is whether you're going to have them in therightframeofmind to win. The thing that we do try to do is try to avoid all the distraction on the road and we're probably a little bit stricter with our itinerary, a little bit tighter with our players on the road. We really emphasize that it's a business trip. If we're going in an area that has a lot ofdifferent en­tertainment we just don't partake. We go there for business trip even with their families there. I know some people disagree with me, the way I handle it, but that's the way we do things. They're welcome to see their families for a few minutes in the lobby, prior to the game and after the game until we get on the bus to go back home. I tell them it's not a pleasure trip; it's a business trip. 
Have you ever discussed with your players about trying to play it close to the cuff and not saying anything that might fan the emotional fire of this thing? 
We really don't put a muZ?:le on our players as I'm sure everybody knows by now. But we tell the players it would bein their best interest not to make negative comments. We want them to talk about our team and ourgoals and not about our opponents. but occasionally someone is going to say something and that is part of the learning experience . That's why I don't put a muzzle them because if they say something and they are embarrassed by it later on, maybe they will learn later on what not to say. 
Since the Notre Dame crowd is going to be juiced up, are you going to take any precautions and have you told Steve Walsh about what's going to happen? 
We have been in front ofvery vocal crowds before. Its a loud crowd here at the Orange Bowl. We played in front of a loud crowd when we were down 30 to 14 at Ann Arbor. They had 105,800 and they were screaming at the top of their lungs and our guys handled it very well. I don't see the crowd being a factor. 
Notre Dame has done well in being able to control the football in time of possession. Does that worry you? 
It does worry me because the only way we can win the football game is if our offense can get on the field. Against Pitt, they dominated the time ofpossession, and they had the ball almost twice as much as what Pitt had it. We have got to keep them from taking the ball and moving the length ofthe field and keeping ouroffense off the field.II 


SHOWDOWN 

The Miami Hurricanes will blow into town this week, and the winner could well go on to be the national champ 
prior to this season," said 

BY KEVIN BOUGHAL Jimmy Johnson, head coach 
uring the past three ofMiami. "Wehavewonthe 
years, members of first four games this year, but 
the Notre Dame we have turned the ball over, 
community have been struck and that is a major concern." 
twice by a hurricane while Even with Johnson's con-
visiting Miami. To make cern about his team's youth, 
matters even worse, the same somehow this inexperienced 
storm, Hurricane Jimmy, is team has managed to defeat 
expected to hit the quiet little some pretty big names in-
city of South Bend on Satur-eluding the pre-season num­
day at exactly 1:30 P.M. berone ranked team, Florida 
(EST). State. 
But is this the same hurricane Skip Holtz, Lou Holtz' that demoralized the Irish with a son, is a graduate assistant 58-7 defeat two years ago? Is coach at Florida State. After this the same Hurricane Miami played F.S.U., the Jimmy? younger Holtz was im-
If you ask Bo Schembechler, pressed. the head coach of Michigan "My son, Skip, is a gradu­football team, or Bobby Bow-ateassistantatFioridaState," den, the rappin' head coach of said Lou Holtz. "He told me, Florida State; or the head coach 'Dad, Miami is unbeliev­of every team that Miami has able.' I have every reason to met in the regular season for the believe what he said, because last three years for that matter Wf? always taught our chil­(Miami' s last regular season dren not to lie." loss came to Florida State in the But then, this is not the first game of the 1985 season), same Irish team that went to most will agree that losing play-Miami three years ago ers to graduation has not taken Thanksgiving. much wind from Miami's sails. Going into the Miami 
Although still dominant, the game, the Irish have a perfect 'Canes did lose 19 players last 5-0 record. The Irish are year, 15 of them starters. Of ranked seventh in the nation course that is not to say that in rushing offense, fourth in these boys are unemployed punt returns, and ninth in now. Actually, 12 of them were scoring defense. drafted and five walked on to Comparatively, Miami is NFL teams. sixth in passing offense, 
"The biggest concern I have eighth in total defense and right now about our football second in passing defense. team is that we have so much Going from those num­inexperience and so many new i=---..;;....;;....;;..........==..;;....;;..=......==========.,,;Gr_eg...,.K.,..,oh~s hers, the matchup will be the players who have not started Wes Pritchett anchors an experienced Irish linebacker corps. traditional ound ame vcr-
D 



it still can not hold a candle to the dominant passing attack from Miami. 
'Cane quarter­back Steve Walsh, a 6-3, 196 pound junior,steppedinto the pocket as the team's signal caller, filling some big shoes left by his predescessor, the 
Fllepholo 1986 Reisman 

sus the passing game for which Miami has become famous. 
The Irish 'back attack' has produced some impressi've numbers during the last five games despite some key injuries. 
As a team, the Irish have averaged five yards every time they have carried the ball. In fact, quarterback Tony Rice averages 7.6 yards a carry and tailback Tony Brooks averages 6.7 yards per carry. 
Injuries to both fullbacks,juniors Anthony Johnson (ankle) and Braxton Banks (knee), at the Michigan State game left sophomore Tony Brooks to learn the fullback position in a hurry. Brooks, who himself has had a stress fracture in his foot since late August, has been successful at the position. 
Anthony Johnson re-injured his ankle against Pitt forcing Banks to come back in to the game, even though he was expected to be out for most of the season with ligament damage to his knee. 
Brooks now leades the team in rushing with 393 yards on 58 carries, even though he has only started in the Purdue game. 
The much maligned Irish passing game has yet to become a dominant force in the football games, but it has improved signifi­cantly in the last few games. Rice, who had completed just five of his first 21 passes for 90 yards and had two interceptions for the first two games combined, is 23 of 34 in the last three games. For the season, Rice is 25 of 55 for a total of 401 yards, three touch­downs and four interceptions. Rice also is the third leading rusher on the team with five touchdowns and 348 yards on 46 attempts. 
Although the Irish passing game has im­proved tremendously in the last few games, Vinny Testaverde. 
Testaverde was the quarterback who shot the Irish defense down in flames during the 58-7 whopping in the Orange Bowl. 
Now with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Testaverde had filled the shoes of Bernie · Kosar, of the Cleveland Browns, who had in turn had come right after Jim Kelly, now the quarterback of the Browns. 
Walsh, now 73 of 130 for 1,037 yards and 10 touchdowns, is 18-0 as the starting quar­terback. But passing is not the only aspect of Miami's game that will have to bestopped for the Irish to come away from Saturday's game with a victory. 
Although Miami does not go to the run as often as the Irish do, their fullback Cleveland Gary, a 6-2, 226 pound senior, leads the team in both rushing and receiving. He has carried the ball 38 times for 189 yards and three touchdowns in four games and has 19 catches for 270 yards. Miami's halfback, Leonard Conley, a 5-9, 270 pound sophomore, is right behind Gary with 42 carries for 143 yards. 
Seven different receivers have caught the ball for touchdowns including Gary, Dale Dawkins, a 6-1, 194 pound junior wide re­ciever and Rob Chudzinski, a 6-4, 220 pound sophomore tight end. 
Perhaps the most dangerous weapon in the Hurricanes' arsenal is the defense. Miami has allowed only 33 points in the last four games, ofwhich 30 went to Michigan. Furthermore, all of the touchdowns against Miami came through the air. The 'Cane defense has accu­mulated 16 sacks and gives up only 2.3 yards per rush. 
"I'vealways felt your great teams do it with defense, and I think think that's true of this 
Miami team, even as good as Steve Walsh is," said Lou Holtz. "They have such tremen­dous team speed and play with such intensity that moving the ball against them is a real chore. I don't know how we 're going to do it They haven't given up a rushing touchdown in I don't know how long." 
The foundation of Miami's dominant de­fense is in its powerful but small defensive line and linebackers. Bill Hawkins, a 6-6, 260 pound senior defensive end, is an All­America candidate and has been a starter for three years. Greg Mark, a 6-4, 238 pound junior defensive end, leades the squad in quarterback pressures with 12. 
Middle linebacker Bernard Clark leades the team in tackles with 61. Rod Carter, an outside linebacker, entered the season as a serious contender for the Butkus Award, an award which recognizes the nation's top line­backer. 
Of course, last year's famous Irish "No­
" 


Watters should figure big In any Irish upset hopes. Greg Kohs 
name" defense entered this year with a name and a vengeance. The Irish defense has only allowed 63 points in five games and has returned a total of nine interceptions for 172 yards. 
Junior inside linebacker Michael Stone­breaker, 6-1, 228, leads the team in tackles with 4 7, 30 unassisted and 17 assisted. Sen­ior inside linebacker Wes Pritchett, 6-6, 251, 
Besides the T-shirts and various other ways of showing fan support, the university has made the week prior to the Miami game "Spirit Week." 
"The purpose and intent behind this week was to take attention away from negative aspects," said George McGowen, a market­ing assistant for the Notre Dame athletic business office. "We want to focus on the 
is second with 44, and senior !Ii-captain Ned 
Bolcar is third with 32. 
The defensive line, although young, has 
proved to be very effective at putting pres­
sure on the passer and containing the run. 
Defensive tackles George Williams, a 6-3, 
283 pound sophomore, and Jeff Alm, a 6-7, 
248 pound junior, both had their first starts 
against Michigan and have 24 and 22 tackles 
respectively. 
Sophomore nose tackle Chris Zorich, 6-1, 
260, is fourth on the team in tackles with 30. 
Zorich has one and one half sacks and one 
fumble recovery. 
But even with the impressive marks that 
the young Irish defense has posted, Holtz is 
still not totally happy with what he has seen 
defensively. 
"We competed awfully well against Pitts­
burgh, but we did not get the things done we 
need to get done on defense and that can be 
deadly against a team with the ability of 
Miami," said Holtz. "Our offense has car­
ried us the last few games, especially our 
running game." 
The Irish special teams have been effec­
tive at putting the Irish in good field position. 
Sophomore Ricky Watters, a 6-2, 201 pound 
flanker is ranked third nationally in punt re­
turns averaging 19.09 yards a carry. 
Freshman Raghib Ismail, a 5-10, · 175 
pounder, is ranked seventh in the nation in 
kickoff returns with an average of 29.71 
yards per carry. 
Reggie Ho, the Notre Dame's 5-5, 135 

pound field goal kicker is ranked 28th in field L;.:;=========.;..;;..;..;;;.;.;..................;..;.,_'""' 

goals with 1.4 per game, and 43rd in scoring 
7.4 points per game. 
Some sports analysts feel that the game maybedecidedasmuchoffthefieldasonthe field. Saturday's game will mark the first 
time Miami has come to South Bend since 1984 when Miami left with a 31-13 victory. Because of the rivalry, Irish fan support is expected to possibly play an important fac­
good points ofNotre Dame and the things we have built the university on -a sound mind, a sound body, and a sound spirit." McGowen, like many other people, is afraid that fan support, if not expressed in a positive way will have a negative result. "Sending postcards to Miami fans just 
makes them angry," said McGowen. "And they are good enough without making them angry." 

The spirit week will be capped off by the first annual Maxwell House Coffee Spirit of Notre Dame A\J:'.ard to be given out at the halftime of the Notre Dame men's basketball team scrimmage that is supposed to begin at midnight. The award will be given out to two people who represent the school because they overcame odds to become excellent ath­letes, said McGowen. The award will be given out to one undergraduate varsity ath­lete and one alumni. 
Spirit or not, the Irish have one big battle on their hands this weekend. Miami will be playing their 100th game of the '80s on Saturday against the Irish. Their record in the '80s is 81-18, the second best in the NCAA. Only Nebraska has a better record. Miami has had a week off to rest and put all of their thought onto this game. 
However, Notre Dame seems to have the luck ofthe Irish on their side. Just ask Darnell Dickerson of Pitt. The ESPN announcers decided that it was a little leprechaun that kept knocking the ball out of his hands in the end zone last weekend. 
Besides the luck of the Irish, Notre Dame beat Michigan and Michigan almost beat Miami. OK, it may be weak, but it proves that Jimmy Johnson is not perfect and Miami is not unbeatable. And not all of Miami's victories came against powerhouse teams. In fact, the intensity of Miami's schedule has been questioned more than once. After all, Cincinnati, East Carolina and Tulsa are the three NCAA powerhouses that Miami takes on after Notre Dame, and their combined 1987 record was 12-21. 
And one other thing. Before Notre Dame gets their Irish up at being emharassed in Miami three years ago, lets remember that the Irish have run upascoreortwo. When the Irish played against American Medical Col­lege one year, the Irish won 142-0. To make matters worse, 121 of those points were scored in the first half, which was only 25 minutes long. The second half was shortened to eight minutes so the team could catch the train. Notre Dame scored 27 touchdowns and missed 20 extra points. OK, the game was in 1905, and not on national TV, and it was not their coach's last game. 
The important thing to remember is win or lose, the sun will still come up on Sunday ­maybe.II 

16 

COMPILED BY LAURIE SOMMERLAD
sportsweek 
The Irish men's golf team began its sea­son on Oct. 3 in the Indiana Collegiate. They placed third out of twelve teams, two strokes behind second place Indianapolis, shooting a 636 for 36 holes. DOUG GIOR­GIO, a senior co-captain, led the Irish scoring with a 158 total, while junior TERRY BERLAND was a shot behind at 
159. Sophomores PAUL NOLTA and ~AT KUSEK followed with impressive shows in their first meet of the season with 161 and 163 respectively. 
co:captain PAT MOHAN bounced back from a tough first meet to tie for 13th out of 82 golfers in the Buckeye Fall Classic on Oct. 8-9. However, the team finished a dis­appointing 12th out of 15 teams. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team suf­fered their first defeat of the season as Akron converted on a direct kick in over­time to pull out a 3-2 victory at Akron. This score thwarted an exciting second-halflrish comeback. The Irish trailed 2-0 at the half before JOHN GIUGNON and MITCH KERN rallied to score two goals within two minutes. 
Akron was ranked second in the Great Lakes Region going into the game, while 
3§/S~
tRdi't 
Notre Dame, now 10-1-2, was ranked fourth. Today the Irish will face DePaul. 
e Ins women s soccer team post two victories this week behind the succes­sive hat tricks of SUSIE ZIL VITIS AND 
K.T. SULLIVAN. ZILVITIS powered the team to a 5-1 victory over IUSB on Oct. 4. Additional goals were netted by JOY SISO­LAK and MICHELLE RICHARDS as MIMI SUBA posted two assists to raise her team-leading total to seven. SULLIVAN'S three goals proved all the Irish would need as the rolled by Calvin College 3-1 on Oct. 8. 
Notre Dame will take their 10-3 record, unblemished at home, into this week with matches against St. Mary's and Bowling Green, on Oct. 13 and 15, respectively. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team upset eighth ranked Kentucky in a four game matchonSaturdayinLexington, 15-13, 12­15, 15-9, 16-14. Notre Dame improved their record to 9-5 behind the leadership of MARY KAY WALLER who tallied 19 kills and nine blocks in the game. The Irish handed the Wildcats their first loss at home since October 1986. 
The team will be heading to California for fall break with their next match on Tuesday at Pacific, last year's national champs. 
The men's cross country team welcomes a week lay-off to overcome some of the injuries sustained in last Friday's Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish tied for fourth with Eastern Michigan in the meet behind strong performances by DAN GARRET, who took second with a time of 23:52.4 ­less than one second behind the first place finisher and RON MARKEZICH, who placed third. 
The team travels to compete against the USC Trojans on Oct 22. Notre Dame will be trying to repeat after last years 17-4 I victory. 
In the women's Notre Dame Invitational, Notre Dame finished sixth out of the 13 teams in the meet. Notre Dame senior cap­tain THERESA RICE crossed the finish line with a time of 18:21 to capture third. LINDA FILAR and LUCY NUSRALA finished tenth (19:03) and 13th (19: 15) re­spectively. 
Notre Dame will send seven top tennis players to the Volvo All-American Tourna­ment in Athens, GA, this weekend. For freshman DAVID DiLUCIA, the nation's 49th-ranked player, senior captian BRIAN KALBAS, senior DA VE REITER, sopho­more RY AN WENGER, junior WALTER DOLHARE, sophomore PAUL OD LAND, and junior MIKE WALLACE, this week­end will represent the premiere collegiate singles event of the fall season. 
In past action, the Irish men limped through the Ball State Invitational as their three top players suffered injuries. The bright spot in the meet was the doubles per­formance of REITER and WALLACE as they won the number-two flight champion­ship while boosting their season record to 
4-1. 

THURSDAY,. OCT. 13 
\Vorkslfo Gala-Kellogg Graduate Student Wokshop 

"The Pope's Visit to Chile: A Video," 25 
minutes. A discussion will follow the 
viewing. Room 131 of Teh Decio Faculty 
Hall at 12:30p.m. 

Notre Dame Women's soccer team talces on Saint Mary's College at the SMC Soccer Field at 3:30p.m. 
Film Robocop, sponsored by the Graduate Stu­dent Union Board,at8 and I0:15p.m. in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 

Notre Dame Men's Soccer  team  battles  
DePaul  at  Moose  Krause  Stadium at  
7:30p.m.  

Baseball.· 

N.D. vs. University of Miami (exhibition) 

t Stanley Kovaleski Stadium at 8 p.m. Tickets cost $3 for adults and $2 for students, who can get in free with their Blue-Gold card. A United Limo bus shuttle service will talce people to the game. 





Join the Notre Dame football team, cheer­leaders and band in getting ready for the big match-up against the University of Miami on Saturday. At 7p.m. on the Stepan Courts. Olympic skater Dan Jansen will be a guest speaker at the pep rally. 

From 9 p.m. to midnight in the Joyce ACC Fieldh6use, 7/up will sponsor a student dance featuring The Groove. Bicycles, ste­reos and food will all be given away. WNDU's Jack Nolan will be the master of 
· ceremonies for the function. 

"Notre Dame's Basketball's Greatest Hits" will be shown on a big screen in the J ACC arena at 11 :50p.m. 


At midnight in the J ACC Arena, the Men's Basketball team will scrimmage to offi­cially begin its practice sessions. Coca­Cola will give away free. 18x24 full-color schedule posters to everyone attending the practice. The halftime show will feature the presentation ofthe Maxwell House Spirit of Notre Dame awards to both former and current ND athletes. 


FRIDAY, OCT.14 
Meeting for the Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration, Fri­day, October 14, and Saturday, October 15 in the center for Continuing Education. 

Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture "International Law and the Chang­ing Nature of the Use of Force," by Prof. Bums Weston. _In room 101 of tbe Law School at 12 noon. 
Philosophy Department Lecture "Aristote­lian Categorical Theory Viewed as a The­ory of Componentia!Semantics," by Prof. William McMahon, University of Akron. In room 151 of Decio Faculty Hall at 12 noon. 
Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Self Propagating Combustion Method for the Synthesis of Ceramic Materials," by Prof. Z. A. Munir, Division of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California, Davis; In room 120 of the of Cushing Engineering Hall at 3:00p.m. 
Philosophy Colloquium "Mathematics WithoutNumbers," by Prof. Aron Edidin at 3:30p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture "Nuclear Weapons and Interna­tional Law: Current Considerations," by 
. Prof. Bums Weston, Iowa University Law School. At 4p.m. in room 120 of the Law School. 
Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism Lecture "Looking Through the Lace Curtain:· The Irish-American Search for Identity and Role at the Tum of the Century," by Dr. Timothy Meagher, Na­tional. Endowment of the Humanities. In the Memorial.Library Lounge at 4:15p.m. 
College of Business Administration/ Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture by Mike

I
, 
Valdes, Partner (International Taxes), Coo­pers & Lybrand, Chicago, Illinois. In the Hayes-Healy Auditorium at 4:30p.m. 
United States Air Force ROTC Lecture by General Alan Rogers, USAF, Offut AFB, Omaha, Nebraska, on leadership in the Air Force. At 7:30p.m. in the Library Audito­rium. 

Saint Mary's College Volleyball team vs. Bethel College at 7p.m. in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
18 



Visiting the s 


Some Notre Dame students spent a year in Ireland learning 

BY MATT O'DONNELL 
f I
wanted to become part of the Irish 
culture, riot just observe it. I wanted 
to take an inside view," said Paul Kane, a fifth year senior majoring in anthro­pology andgovernment 
"I always wanted to go. I wanted to find out what it meant to be Irish," said Marge Philips, a junior at Saint Mary's. . 
"I knew I wanted to go to Ireland. That's the reason I went to Saint Mary's," said senior Kathi Danahy. 
Such are reactions by students when asked why they participated in the Saint Mary's Ireland Program. Theprogram is available to approximately 25 students who study at St. Patrick's College in Maynooth, County Kildare for the entirety of their sophomore year. 
Students gain a keen cultural awareness through a deep immersion into the Irish way of life without having to learn a foreign lan­guage. Housing is one aspect ofthe program 

about the the real Irish 

through which this ideal is met. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students rent houses directly from landlords and pay utilities such as electricity, oil coal and peat. Unfortunately, when money gets low, heat­ing is often the first area of the budget to be cut. "One night my friends next door left milk out overnight and it froze," said Kane. "I lived in a house where you could see the steam of your breath." 
Moreover, location was not always the most convenient This coupled with less-ad­vanced bathing facilities made life difficult at times. However, most students were able to deal with these adversities and learn from them. "I had to walk two miles to school to take a shower, but I wasn't unhappy," said Kane. "You learn how humbly people live and how little you can live on . .You learn how to compromise your standard of living and not suffer in the process." 
Added Saint Mary's junior Lynn Daly, "We were ex­pecting the house to be perfect, warm, wonderful and it wasn't. But we adapted." 
Alcohol's role in Irish society was another cultural as­pect that students 


learned. 

was pos1tive and enhancing, rather than negative and inhibiting. "The pub is the center of social life over there," said junior Tim Kenny. "The pub, not the drink. Obvi­ously, there are times when people go a Iitlle crazy. But it's a normal part of everyday life like going to the library is here. It's not abnormal to go and enjoy a pint or two of Guinness and chat with friends. Whole families go to the pub." 
Education under the Irish system was an­other learning experience -in more ways than one. Students on the program take classes directly with their Irish peers. Al­though most Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students prefer the American educational system, they did admire the Irish attitude toward education. "It's very different over there," said Notre Dame senior Jennifer Mick. "(The Irish) don't.place a lot of em-


titude toward education is progressive in its if I had enjoyed the crack. I was so taken simplicity. Deadlines and grade quotas aback." Crack, as she and others would find aren't important. What's important to them 1f~<f1L~Jllaout, is colloquial for fun and has no reference 
.··••·•·.::,,(~oi!~··•·t~•·;th¢•·P.ub) 
··mrfltl~tt,~ItQ~g.

·..• Ir~J,nd)lpir•·eoi~g. 
·>fh~ J~~rat-yJs he.fe..•,~· ···•·•·•I::••:•::i:I••••·-·••~i~i~;~ni•••····· 


phasis on grades. But the Irish students do take pride in their work. It's more their work than something that has to be handed in. (The professors) think nothing of giving a Cora 
D." 
Addedjunior Jim McCarthy, "The Irish at-
is that a student learns and gains an apprecia-Lion (of the subject matter), not just pro­duces." • 
Some lessons came from merely spending time with the islanders. Americans accus­tomed to a significantly higher standard of 
. . . . . . .:::::. 
hvmg were amazed by their s1mphc1tly. .:::1111111i. :1111::::. "The Irish students weren't materialistic" .:::::::::::::: ;::::::::::::.. said Mick. "If they could scrape up enoug'h =mmmmmmmmmm·
··~························ 
pence to eat for the whole week, they were ..::illllllllllllllll;'.'.::: happy. If they had more, it was great, but no:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: big deal." ··=:::::::::r ·;mmm;:· The Irish spend their leisure time in a much ·:gg:= ·;gmr 
Scenes like this one dot Ireland's countryside. 
more communal fashion than Americans. Par­ticipants in the program seem to have embraced this aspect of 
Irish  culture.  
"They  weren't  
really  TV-ori­ 
ented.  It  was  

more important to talk to people, to be able to en­tertain each other," said sen­ior Mike I"-----'---"
o • c O n n e 11 . Andy Johnson, Dan Brouder, Mark Bayne, Jim McCarthy and Mike "Sometimes we Flood explore Ireland. Tim Kenny 
Tim Kenny' friends once asked me 
.-,:f:lf.ff/!!J.
1ififi/l//f1~
:;/ifi!i!f.ff.
i!i.!!/!/fiiii!Jt
·~::/:.-::/::::::/::l~
·:7-{{/fiiif./.{lf.'fi/f.;;:_­
-::/::/:/::"t:/:/:1#!/iJ;. 
:i/f.if.:·· 'fi/i/ii/§f!fj
'• ...........,.­
·:f/f.:l· 416, 
~ ~~ 
would stay up till three or four in the morning, talking and singing. It was great to talk with them and hear their opinions on everything from politics to sports. TV and radio really dull your senses, unlike conversation where you're taking an active part." 
Learning the Irish way of life could have its embarrasing mo­ments, asDaly will at­test. "Some Irish to illegal substances. 

Finally, the friendships made during the year have a profound effect on the partici­pants and seem to define their experience. "I made life long friends who opened up my mind to new thoughts and ideas about my­
" . . . " ,

self, o~ers and the world, s_rudPh1hps. It s somethmg that's always gomg to be there"
0 

O'Connell agrees. "Once you got to know someone they were so hospitable. I know if I went over there in a couple years, I could look these guys up. It wouldn't be com­pletely the same, but the friendship would still be there." 
Participants in the Ireland Program return to the United States with a sense of satisfac­tion: They have learned about another people and become assimilated into that culture. They no longer feel like tourists, nor act like them. "When my friend Laura's mom said to me, 'Sure you're an Irishman now,' I felt that by integrating myself I had become accepted into the Irish way of life," said Kenny. "I understood the politics, the religion, their means of recreation." 
Kane related nostalgically, ''Towards the end of the year I was on a train to Lqndon. I started chatting with this Englishman. We talked for nearly an hour. At the end he said he knew I wasn't English, but couldn't tell if I was Irish or American. I felt so proud to have become a part of the Irish culture."¦ 

Final Word 

The Dismas Challenge 
A Dismas House resident tells ofan unusual off-campus living arrangement 
BY PAUL BURKE 
W: hat do fonner convicts and Notre Dame students have in common? People living in community, sharing dreams, recovering from nightmares, searching for a positive understanding ofoneself. It'sa place where no one has the answers to life's problems, but in caring for one another, we can dis­cover important questions. Deciding to live at Dismas House is much the same for students and ex-offend­ers. All of us here willingly chose to be a part of the community and this calls us to action. The reasons for selecting Dismas vary, as do the stories that precede each member's arrival. Yet the uniqueness of the program is the critical element. What we all needed was some place different, away from the ruts like alcohol, drugs, or just personal unfulfillment that held us back and locked us within ourselves. Living here is a humbling experience. To a great degree, a fortunate socio-economic background has provided me with a free­dom unnappreciated. Poverty restricts people more so than prison bars, and the freedom of alcohol and drugs may be the only accessible one. Dismas House creates self-esteem and an honest chance to evalu­ate oneself. Essential to communities is the process of acceptance. If one does not confonn to certain standards of behavior, adopting the prevailing attitudes of the group, then he could find himself isolated from the com­munity. Dismas House differs from other communities, because acceptance is not something granted upon the individual for vacating his selfhood. In other words, those "friendships" that depend on drug or alco­hol use are discouraged. Instead, Dismas House extends acceptance to each new resi­dent, to the cooks and other volunteers that interact with us, or to each visiting guest. In fact, there exists a real peer pressure within 

the house to be yourself and to accept others for who they are. 
A unique aspect of living in community at Dismas House is that it requests its members to contribute their talents and abilities to others in need. When I chose to live at Dismas House last spring, it was because I saw it as a place ofoptimism, not high-blown idealism, but real people ad­dressing practical concerns. Whatever I could offer in tenns of personal gifts and gain from association with others, I be­lieved in the exclusive and focused interac­tion of the Dismas community. 
Does that sound like a trite commercial? 
A unique aspect of living in community at Dismas House is that it requires its members to contribute their talents and abilities to oth­ers in need. 


Well, last night I talked with a fonner con­vict about the problems he has encoun­tered. He came to Dismas House because his family would not take him back and the friendships he had developed before prison would lead him straight back into it. Now sober, he recounts years of alcoholism and violent episodes: For him Dismas House is a temporary community allowing him to find a job, acquire new relationships, and achieve a GED. 
At Dismas House, lives cannot be charted into win-loss columns, because life does not solely consist of loosely con­nected major events. In recalling my expe­riences, what matters the most are the successive moments of people attempting to reach out and impact other lives. Day after · day, the thousands of exchanged handshakes and hellos, shared coffee and cigarettes outweigh the brief episodes of success or complication. 
What do several ex-offenders and Notre Dame students have in common? They are a family residing at home in South Bend with weekly chores, a nightly dinner, and sharing in the continuity of life's chal­lenges. II 
Paul Burke is a senior English major from Lombard, IL. He now resides at Dis­mas House. 
Editor's note: If you would like more information on the Dismas House pro­gram, contact Sal or Leo Harris at 237­9533 or Kathy Royer at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Scholastic 


Editorial 


You make the call 
Peopleare worried about what's going to happen when the number-one ranked Miami Hurricanes come into town on Saturday. And a lot of the worries don't center on what will happen on the football field. 
Between rude T-shirts and crank phone calls, the administration's confidence in the students to "behave" for the game has sunk. The word is out that unless the admini­stration and student leaders succeed in re-channeling energy -through something such as Spirit Week -school spirit will be more of an embarrassment than a source of pride this weekend. 
That's very disappointing. 
What's disappointing is that the administration shouldn't have say anything. There shouldn't be any problem. Have you griped about the alcohol policy this year? Do you feel strapped for social alternatives here? Do you want change -sincere, honest change -to happen? 
Then next week try reasoning with a university administration that has seen a sizeable majority, or even a vocal minority, of its students greet Miami with a sea of upraised middle fingers, obscene chants and thrown objects. Tell them that the maturity is there to build co-ed dorms or conclude that the new all-hall semi-formal policy should be reconsidered. 
Now try reasoning with them if the football team wins. Who pays for the turf and the goalposts that have to be replaced before next Saturday's game with Air Force? Who answers to any charges made on national television about the boorishness of Notre Dame students? And what happens if somebody gets hurt? 
We don't want to come out with some condescending pronouncement about how the stud en ts should calm down. After all, that shouldn't be necessary. We're all adults by now. 
Right? 

-Scholastic 
Letters Policy 

Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their 
year in school and college. Faculty members sh.ould include their department All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon 
request. Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for 
copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scholastic cannot print all letters received. 
Ernie Pook's Comeek 

. . You KNOW THAT ONE KIND Of JEW~LER ~ Box THAT WHEN YOU OP~N \i, THE~ES MVSIC AND A BALLERINA STARTS TWlfU..tNG ON ONE' LEG \N F.R.oNT Of A MIR.R.oR.? 
THE T~.4iGE DY OF lT MADE MAR.LljS CR.'j 
. I
So HE~ BRoTHER FREDDIE TRIED TO FIX If 
fOR. HE~,AND THEN THtRE WAS ANOTHER TflA6EDY, Wl-\lCH WAS HE ACC.1 O~NTL<.; 
B~KE OFF Tl-\ E RE ST OF TH£ HE AD. 
\T WAS TOO PITIFUL, EVEN FOR, M'j BROTI-ifR AR.NO\..~ To WATC.H Tt-\E BAI..LERlNA 1WIR.LIN6 WllH'WO \-\EAD TO T\-\E Lovei,y MUSIC., So 
\-\E Toot< THE GUM OVT OF HlS MOUTH AND STVGK IT ON HER NECK.. AND THATS Hoy., MAllL.~s·s J~W~t,tft.~ Box BECAME" ou(l 
FAV0R\1'E TI-HNC,. m~~~~~~i 
~!w.,&
WlvP.N Tl-\ 
o GET Yo
Y Tl-\lN<:i A 
fl.e~P~
e' &o"CTOM S 
~AWl.ij~
E ST'AlliS 6 
NO PVT·.it\
r 
· e so,c 
ETHE 
v01ENC. 
€AH! THE 
t,{tSt\\P t-\ SHf~ THe Jo GOD Of TH 




AA~ ':1DlJ ~ E.E.L.. STuP 10, Ll..UMS1j 1 A.r-11) ~E.U'LE.SS.
D ~OU£.. FR.LE.NQS PtR.E.. SCAP.cO Ot:= "™-EM,
D TH€.'::l SP~i.J\::. 'jOll. 
O 'j ou GE.-r "'T¼c ~ E.E.l.lNG 1\-IE.'j •0 Be µ.uQ-\. H.Al=lPlE;.R.. Ir:: 0"1L':, T\-lc'1 DlON'T t-lf\llc C:t-llUJIU:t-.\. 
0 71-\c.'1 5Al.j: 

1-lc.\Jcll-TSU... ~..i',oi-lE.wAAT CoOtS 01-l 11'l ""TH.15 ~A.NIil..~. 
IF '::)ou F'c..L.-1" U'a:. 1:.\4£1:¥-t..iQ, r.\N', Ot= "1\-1.e ~E.5 ASove., 'ouT 0\0N'T, BE..CP,USE.. l:jOU ~c.Q.£. A~R.A.U? '::101.l~ MOM AND QF>.V M.\GITT GET 
AHOL-0 o\: nus CAR.i'oW, l 'VE: Got Scir-,.~ e.Ao NE.ul5 1=oR. '101.l, PAL-. 
HA\Jc.--­PR0(3 L£M PA'2.EN1"<;. 


; 
CD 
®
;; 
"' a, a,.. 
l 
+ l> i 
"' [ ~ 
iJ' 

} 
i i
i. 
: i 
I, 
i. 
J. 




