AVIATION ENGINEERING Today More Than Ever....
offers a Sound, Well-Paid FUTURE
with a Leader Like CURTISS-WRIGHT
Today’s graduate engineer seeking a secure, well paid career will do well- to look to the aviation industry', provided he joins a leader with permanent roots in the field.
Such a company is CURTISS-WRIGHT, and here is why it will continue to provide exceptional engineering career opportunities of many kinds.
•	Aviation is a precision industry in which new developments are rapid and continuous. Curtiss-Wright, always in the forefront of these advancements, is a center of research programs that go beyond aviation itself and thus create new products and processes affecting many other industries as well. The company’s leadership in military' aviation power is assured by long-range research and development plans. Commercial production is growing, in both aviation and developments in other industries.
•	To meet aviation’s need for ever-better materials and techniques, Curtiss-Wright explores many fields — hydraulics, mechanics, electronics, plastics and metallurgy . . . new alloys and casting methods. Out of this research come not only improved propellers and powerplants, but many products with applications in general industry'.
•	So great an asset is this pool of engineering experience that it has become a bulwark to the national defenses and economy.
•	For these reasons, including the wide range of projects at Curtiss-Wright, the company offers stability and solid career jobs for qualified engineers. One may' choose his favorite field or specialty and look for increasing advancements and rewards as fast as he can assume responsibility.
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL DIVISION, at Wood-Ridge, N. J., leads in the development and production of reciprocating and jet engines, and development of turboprops and ramjets.
PROPELLER DIVISION, at Caldwell, N. J., is engaged in many projects other than the name implies. In addition to propeller research and production, it embraces machine design, stress analysis, aerodynamics, hydraulics, metallurgy', electronics, servo-mechanisms, instrumentation and controls.	-
Jobs are waiting for engineers in these fields:
AERONAUTICAL • MECHANICAL
METALLURGICAL
If you want permanence, progress and good pay that grows better, living near your work in a desirable home area, contact your placement office for additional information and arrange for an interview with our representatives when they visit the campus.
-----------CURTISS-WRIGHT—
CORPORATION • WOOD-RIDGE, N.J.
November 6, 1953
3
k-
College Men Look “Smoother” Thanks To Arrow Gabanaro
Trim-Fitting Sports Shirt Furthers New Trend To Neatness
Pat on the Back	|
s Editor:
i
This we sincerely hope will be but one J of many complimentary letters on the subject which in the past has been the source of many jokes and sarcastic remarks — the Notre Dame Marching Band!
As Notre Dame men we take a lot for granted, namely, strong spirit, a fighting football team and years of tradition. To this list is added by many of us, we are sorry to say, the band. The hours of hard labor, the countless repetition of menial tasks in order to seek as near perfection as possible are overlooked. Thus, only when the members prove themselves beyond all shadow of doubt, as in the last few performances, that they are' truly a fine marching band, do we begin to sit up and take notice of their fine work.
An aggregation which Notre Dame can be proud to call its own, we feel that this salute to the band is well in order, and we sincerely wish them continued success.
Joseph Clancy
Jerome Smith
One of the most marked changes in campus fashions this year is the switch to the neat sports shirt that fits as well . . . looks as trim ... as a regular shirt. This change has been brought about by Arrow Gabanaro— a washable rayon gabardine sports shirt in exact collar sizes and sleeve lengths . . . Sanforset® to keep its perfect fit. Available at all Arrow dealers 1
ARROW
TRADE ©MARK
--SHIRTS • TIES « UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS-
See the new Arrow Shirts at
Michigan at Washington
Conduct at the Cinema
Editor:	’
Saturday night at the last show at the Palace Theater, the boys from the Dome were cutting up in their usual fashion: comments, boos, cat-calls, etc. But what I considered the last straw was that in the section where I was sitting, a student lit a cigarette and began smoking it as if he were in the' Huddle. ’ This I consider going a bit too far.
'It’s true that this town has few if ' any social facilities, but that’s true for the high school students also. I know we are not high school students, but the way we conduct ourselves is much less orderly than high school students. Fun * is fun, but there is a place for everything — the theater not being the place to smoke cigarettes. I am not going to say that by smoking a cigarette in the theater the lives of the patrons are endangered — that’s obvious, but I will say it can go a long way in making every- f thing very uncomfortable.
I can only speak for myself, but I think that South Bend as a whole has tolerated the “riff-raff” students to its breaking point. We, as Notre Dame men, should do something about it ourselves. It is our duty as men of Our d Lady and good Catholic gentlemen.
Elliot F. Lisk
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
At last — unlimited cuts . . .
A Pound of Flesh
After three straight bumper weekends, the local entrepreneurs finally get a chance to sit back and count their winnings, and give Philly a chance to stick its finger in the lucrative football-weekend pie.
The hackies can now go back to working out crossword puzzles, the NIT pilots can resume their mile-a-minute takeoffs down the Notre Dame Avenue landing strip, the
South Bend versions of the Statler can look for new nooks and crannies .in
which to stick cots, and the vendors can go back out to the highways and byways and sprinkle their new crop of mums.
Yessir, everything’s back to normal —at least until two weeks hence.
Where There’s Smoke . . .
For a few anxious moments the other day (and we were really anxious) it looked as if someone had finally made good his threat to do away with the local eating house.
While strolling casually across the bog for our mid-day repast we noticed a twist of smoke and flames shooting skyward from the East roof of the Chow Hall. Our years of journalistic brain-washing told us immediately that we were in on a scoop. So, with pad in hand and pencil between our teeth, we hustled straight to the scene amid various speculations by fellow students such as:
“Hope it doesn’t burn down until after I eat.”
“Wonder who set it?”
Once inside the familiar, hallowed walls we headed straight for the one person who would know the scoop. We headed straight for the venerable, white-haired old gentleman in the tan sport coat, and he immediately put our mind at ease by reassuring us that there was no fire on the roof. “It’s only an incinerator or something, where they bum rubbish,” he reassured us.
So we shook his paw, warmly thanking him for the information, and turned back to the business of our mid-day
repast. Funny, we never noticed the incinerator before.
The Waving of the Green
There was a rather distracting influence over in the general direction of ■ the St. Mary’s cheering section at last Saturday’s Navy tussle. Instead of the familiar lace hankies that used to flutter at that end of the field every time the gals got a little worked up, last Saturday the air was filled with green and white streamers attached to what appeared to be overgrown swizzle sticks.
But the representatives from our sister institution across the Dixie death trap didn’t stop there. They went out and got themselves a few new cheers, all for theii- very own, to go along with the gaily-decorated swizzle sticks.
Now, maybe about 5,399 of our Notre
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Dame brothers won’t exactly approve of what we are about to do, and maybe we are getting a bit fetched upstairs, but nevertheless, how about a doff of the green fedora and a low, sweeping bow to the St. Mary’s girls. They really tried hard to dispel any doubts as to whom they’re for.
Of People and Monkeys
Looks like things have been a little too peaceful out Hollywood way of late, so it was probably inevitable that the Gardner-Sinatra thing should hit the scandal sheets.
The thing that we got a charge out of, though, was the big feature story in one of last Sunday’s Windy City noosepapers on “Ava Gardner’s Search for Happiness.” Seems like every time somebody gets divorced some starving journalist gets the “ingenious” idea of writing all about the divorcee’s crummy childhood and ultimate search for what Hollywood calls “happiness.”
Of course, this is only Ava’s third split-up, so she’s got plenty of time to find this character named Happiness. Like we say, she’s got plenty of time to conduct this search ... or should we say manhunt.
While all this was taking place on the West Coast, this Julius LaRosa guy was kicking up quite a stir at the opposite end of the forty-eight. It seems Freckles thought that his little one had lost his humility and promptly canned him. Julius retorted with a statement to the press that he is still as simple as ever. That we’ll go along with. We don’t think that Julius has lost his humility—he’s still just a crazy, mixed-up kid.
Bottom of the Week
. ; . for the paltry. few who have better than an 88 average.
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
CHICKEN STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
November 6, 1953
5

NOVEMBER 6
AVON (through Nov. 14)—Much to the satisfaction of just about everybody, The Moon Is Blue has quietly sneaked out of town. Replacing it is Take the High Ground (A-2), a tale about life in an infantry recruit camp. Dick Widmark plays the tough guy sergeant and in case your interest wanes as .it’s liable to, Elaine Stewart, MGM’s latest glamour rage, is around to liven things up.
PALACE (last day)—Last week we said that Golden Blade (A-l) isn’t bad entertainment. We take it back. Stand at Apache River is even worse than we thought.
COLFAX (a week)—This is the third time in 30 years that So Big (A-l) has been produced on the screen, but that doesn’t take anything away from a truly fine motion picture. Jane Wyman does an excellent job in the lead role.
GRANADA (through Nov. 11)— The Cruel Sea is the British film presentation of the best-selling novel by the same name, which some people say is Britain’s version of the Caine Mutiny. Supposed to be pretty good. Veils of Bagdad, the co-pic, is strictly out of it.
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—If the titles, Cry of the Hunted and Girls of Pleasure Island were put together, you might have the makings of an interesting story. Separated though, they’re not much.
NOVEMBER 7
FRANKLIN FIELD (12:30 p.m. CST)—Penn’s poor Quakers, who have been playing tough opponents every week, take on the toughest tomorrow when they host the Fighting Irish. Despite the fact that the student trip was cancelled, there will be plenty of the troops on hand to "shake down the thunder.”
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:40)—Rock Hudson and Julia Adams in Lawless Breed (A-2). So-so.
PALACE (two days)—Plunder of the Sztn (A-2) with Glenn Ford and Diana Lynn and The Ring are in town for only a short stay, which we all can be thankful for.
NOVEMBER 8
STATE (two days)—Randy Scott (who else?) exercises his six-gun in Hangmen’s Knot (A-2). The co-feature, Saginaw Trail (A-l) stars none other than Champion and his rider, Gene Autry.
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 11)—The Story of Three Loves (A-2) has a full array of big names but that’s about all. The Andrew Sisters return from the past in the other picture, Give Out Sisters.
STUDY IN EUROPE NOW
Again the Institute of European Studies offers students an economical European study and travel program.
Student groups live and study in Vienna, Austria, taking the English taught courses at the University of Vienna. They spend eight weeks travelling through nine countries of Europe and North Africa.
The Second Semester group sails Feb. 6,1954, on the Ryndam and returns to the U.S. in July 1954. Entire cost of program is $1035.
Price includes:
Room and board for 5)4 months. Round trip ocean transportation.
Travel expenses through 9 countries. Tuition at University of Vienna.
Special field trips and lectures.
Application deadline — December 1, 1953.
If you are interested please fill out this coupon and you will receive complete Second Semester information. Mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF
EUROPEAN STUDIES
A non-profit corporation
7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
name
College
address
city	zone state
GLASSES FITTED
NOVEMBER 9
PALACE (through Nov. 14)—Another motion picture based on a novel, Fair Wind to Java (A-2) is pretty fair although Fred McMurray and Vera Ralston don’t seem to typify very well the characters as presented in the book. Flight Nurse is the second attraction.
NOVEMBER 12
GRANADA (a week)—Jeff Chandler and Marilyn Maxwell try hard but East of Sumatra (B) is still a lemon. Man of Conflict doesn’t help the bill any.
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
The Scholastic
Vol. 95 November 6, 1953 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ...................News
FRED C. ECKART .................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS .........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK .......Features
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .......Sports JERRY D. BAIER ---Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ......Circulation BOB FOWLER--------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE-----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Jim DuBois, Bob Fowler, Jim Guide, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Gerry Traflicanda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Michigan street—of the era when a horse and buggy rolling along at more than 10 or 15 miles per hour could be fined for speeding. In the dry season it was dusty; in the wet, a sea of mud. Students of yesteryear might recognize it, but today’s Notre Dame men see a totally different scene: wide concrete and speeding cars, colored lights and plate glass windows. “South Bend: Memoirs of a City,” a tale of the past, begins on page 17.
Photos courtesy of the South Bend Tribune and the Northern Indiana Historical Society. Composition by Bob Huddleston and Dana Weithers.
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Anybody for a Beer?
The buck-shod, blue-coated man about campus got an unusual tip of the hat from the nation’s press and a nod of approval from his stoic grandparents recently. The long-awaited report of the Yale Center of Alcoholic Studies finally proved, contrary to advance speculation, that he and some 2,500,000 other collegians in 1,893 American colleges and universities aren’t such nasty people after all.
The two Yale professors, after spending the last five years studying the drinking habits of nearly 16,000 students in 27 representative U. S. colleges, laid down the facts in a 214-page report: 74 per cent, of the students admitted taking an occasional nip every now and then, but over 90 per cent of these proved to be moderate imbibers. In fact, only 21 per cent of college men and ten per cent of their coed friends ever touch a drink oftener than once a week.
The results not only shattered the impression that collegians, generally speaking, are an inebriated bunch, but it also indicated that some of these same students are waging active campaigns to de-emphasize drinking. Students at Arizona State College, for example, are campaigning against drinking at football games, and early-season indications point toward considerable progress. Only 22 bottles were found at the stadium after the opening game, and only eight of these were in the student section. “Previously,” the Arizona State Press adds, “garbage barrels full had been left behind.” A recent study at Georgia Tech too — where it’s traditional to drink your whiskey clear — showed that drinking has fallen off compared to the ’30s, when two dump trucks were leased to carry off empties after football games.
Although the press and the grandparents might still find cause to shake a disapproving finger at a few college students with whom drinking is a preoccupation instead of a sideline — the
majority of sober students, who just like a drink now and then, should get a redress of grievances.
College ‘Sot*: An Illusion
"Sit-at-Homes"
Tomorrow the football team will be lacking the support of student trippers who were stymied last week when the entourage fizzled out because of what official bulletins called “lack of student interest.” Some took the situation a step farther and attributed it to a lack of student spirit which, they said, has been evident all season.
It might be well to point out that there’s a difference in “spirit” and “interest” when it comes to paying close to $60 for: 18 hours on a train; three hours before the game; three hours of football; 28 hours in Philadelphia (somewhere in which is a night’s sleep); 16-hour train ride back; Monday morning class two hours after arriving in South Bend.
November 6, 1953
Once there was a ghost named Leroy, who lived in a haunted cottage near a large Eastern university. Every Friday night, at exactly seven o’clock, he’d slide under the door of Baskerville Hall (the main dorm), and give the students all the answers to next week’s quizzes.
This was quite a set up. No studying, no cramming . . . and straight A’s all term long. But then, one Friday, the hour came and went. No Leroy! And the following week, all the Baskerville Boys got an F on every quiz!
The Friday after that, all of Baskerville Hall waited . . . and waited. But still no Leroy! In high dudgeon, they set out to find him. Creeping into Leroy’s haunted cottage . . . the Baskerville Boys found him moaning and groaning. “What’s the matter, Leroy?” they asked.
Leroy wiped a ghostly tear from his ghostly eye. “The weather’s so hot, every time I put on a shirt the collar curls and wilts. I haven’t been out for two weeks!”
In high glee, the Baskerville Boys hurried to the local Van Heusen dealer and bought a dozen Van Heusen Century Shirts with the revolutionary soft collar that won’t wrinkle ever. Regular collars, spread collars. $3.95 for whites, $4.95 for colors. “A very good investment,” they thought.
Leroy was delighted. He rewarded the boys with all the answers to the following week’s quizzes. Two months later, all the boys from Baskerville Hall had flunked out. Leroy’s good-looking Van Heusen Century Shirts made him so popular with the co-eds, that he didn’t have time for quizzes or answers.
Students!
SPECIAL RATES
RENT A BRAND NEW PORTABLE OR LATE MODEL STANDARD TYPEWRITER
All makes of Typewriters Rented, Sold and Expertly Serviced.
Up to three months rental allowed on purchase price if you decide to buy.
SUPER SALES COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA PHONE 6-6328	(Next to Sears)	315 W. MONROE ST.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
Complete service to oil Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailored made to measure.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS

The Scholastic
! Volume 95, Number 7	Notre Dame, Indiana	November 6. 1953
I
Senior Midnight Lights Plan Passes Senate; University Fights Toll Approval Hangs on Find Executive Decision Road Across Grounds
Gene Howley, chairman of the Blue Circle, which is the executive arm of the Student Senate, presented for Senate approval last Monday the motion that the Seniors be granted 12 o’clock lights. Under the plan a trial period is to be set up consisting of approximately three weeks during which time the Seniors will have lights until midnight. If at the end of the period it is found that the plan has not resulted in an increase in noise in the Hall and that there has been no decrease in attendance at daily Mass it is suggested that the plan be put into effect permanently.
In introducing the motion Mr. Howley made it clear that this would be a Senior privilege since the Seniors now do not enjoy any privileges exclusive of those also held by the Sophomores and Junior classes. He also cited the need of the Seniors for this extra hour of study time
Chicago Club Plans Complete For 1953 Thanksgiving Dance
Wednesday, Nov. 25, is the big day for those Chicagoans headed home for the annual Thanksgiving holiday. This particular Wednesday is the date of the traditional Chicago Club Thanksgiving Dance, honoring the residents of the Windy City who attended Notre' Dame.
This year the dance will be held in the Grand Ball Room and French Room of the Drake Hotel. Dance music will be supplied from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. by Johnny Marlowe and his orchestra. Bids are $4 on campus and $4.50 if purchased at the dance. Prospective dancegoers are urged to buy their bids on campus because plans haven’t yet been completed for selling ducats at the door.
The price of the bid is higher than in previous years, because of the club’s loss of immunity to Federal taxation which will consume most of the proceeds.
To make it convenient, the club has representatives located in each of the residence halls for the purpose of selling tickets.. Bulletins listing the representatives names and rooms will be posted shortly.
since Seniors often have comprehensive exams to prepare for, and also the fact that Seniors are engaged in more extracurricular activities than underclassmen.
The motion passed the Senate unanimously and will now be presented to Fr. Hesburgh and the Committee on Discipline for University approval. The motion will be presented to them by Fr. Norton, vice-president in Charge of Student Affairs, and faculty advisor to the Sen-■ ate.
Also approved at the last Senate meeting was another Rosaiy followed by an Open-House dance at the Student Center similar to the one held last Sunday. Phil Bolin, Senate Social Commissioner reported on the success of the previous affair which was very popularly received. The next one is scheduled for Sunday, Nov. 15.
SATURDAY’S CLASSES
All Saturday classes will be taught tomorrow with the usual periods being followed. The shortened periods will be used again on the Iowa and Southern Methodist football weekends.
WNDU to Rejoin St. Mary's Following Transmitter Repairs
In the not too distant future St. Mary’s girls will be reinstated as a full-time part of the WNDU listening audience.
Though the exact time of the transDixie Highway hookup has not yet been announced, the transmissions will resume as soon as the necessary equipment repairs are completed at St. Mary’s.
There will be no change in the program schedule nor in the personnel of the station. At the present there are no shows planned that will originate at St. Mary’s.
WNDU’s advertising program will not be directed toward the St. Mary’s girls alone. All the present sponsors who advertise to men alone will be continued.
The recent problem of a toll road cutting through properties of the University and St. Mary’s College has aroused the interest of officials from both schools.
Commenting on the possibility of the road cutting through University property, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University said, “It would be more desirable on our part to have the road placed somewhere else. It is our hope to someday use all the University property for some purpose or other. Naturally, we are opposed to any action which might divide University property.”
Contrary to many rumors, the new road will not affect LOBUND in any way. The road itself will pass north of Douglas Road, intersecting State Highway 31 just south of Roseland. That part of University property under discussion is a small peninsular strip of land extending north of the campus.
On the other hand, St. Mary’s College will be directly affected by the road. The model grammar school, located just north of LeMans Hall, will be the principal target of the proposed turnpike. A traffic problem will result, as the entrance to the approach road of the turnpike is planned for construction near the site of the model school.
South Bend’s acting mayor, Granville P. Ziegler, has demanded that the Indiana Toll Commission produce its data on alternate routes through St. Joseph County, north of South Bend. Notre Dame’s attorneys believe this move might “bring all the facts to the surface.” If the findings of the engineers are produced, perhaps a new route through Clay Township can be found or a “B” route south of South Bend can be considered.
Father Joyce went on to say that if the present plans are approved and construction begun, the toll road would not be completed for at least two years. “The road itself,” he added, “would have little if any effect on Notre Dame.”
The Indiana section of the toll road will be linked to proposed Ohio and Illinois sections; thereby connecting the Pennsylvania.and New Jersey turnpikes forming a continuous toll road between Chicago and New York City.
November 6, 1953
Modern, Functional Designs Accent Center, Furnish Facilities for Future Student Affairs
The new Student Center, officially christened the night of the Sophomore Cotillion, will open its portals to the public from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., from 6:45 p.m. to 9:45 p.m. on Monday through Thursday and from 8 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Future plans have been set by Manager Jay Baier, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Assistant Manager Phil Brehm, a senior in the College of Commerce. There will be a television set installed in the TV room on the first floor soon. A series of tea dances and mixers along with the big dances throughout the year have been scheduled. The semi-formal Commerce Ball is the next big dance scheduled for the two-story activities building.
John Reedy, chairman of the physical facility committee, supervises the activities of the Center and determines the policies with the help of the committee'.
The interior of the Student Center accents the most modern designs. “Functional” best describes the offices of the Student Senate, which controls the Center, the offices of Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, and the offices for the Center’s managers.
The main lobby on the first floor contains the latest in modern furniture. It is lighted indirectly by recessed
PHIL BREHM AND JAY BAIER
Managers of Student Center Activities
ceiling lights. The color scheme enriches the whole .interior of the lobby, surrounded by several game rooms.
Besides the offices there is a refreshment room on the first floor and also a game room for cards, chess and checkers. The Center will supply the equip
ment on the honor system. The “Little Theater” is also on the main floor. It will seat 80 people. It is designed for small clubs that wish to show movies. This room will be supplied with a large screen. On both the first and second floors are rooms with moveable partitions to divide the rooms when necessary.
The stairway, located over the main entrance, leads to the ballroom on the second floor. When the dance floor is not in use, it serves as a lounge, augmenting the first floor lobby. A refreshment room and several alcoves are also located on the second floor. Rest rooms are provided on both floors.
The control room for radio, music and the public address system, all of which can be piped throughout the Center, is located on the second floor.
’Ave1 Feature Praises U.S. Ambassador Luce
“Another St. Catherine of Siena” is how a recent article in the Ave Maria, Catholic weekly published at the University, describes Clare Boothe . Luce, United States ambassador to Italy and prominent figure in the current Trieste affair.
Marjorie Hoagland pays tribute to Mrs. Luce in the Nov. 7 issue as “a woman who dares to foray into controversial present-day affairs as did St. Catherine of Siena in the 13th century,” yet one who gives “primary consideration to the demands of the spiritual world.”
Mrs. Luce, first woman to hold such a high post in the American diplomatic service, is depicted as a most “fervent daughter of the Church” since her conversion to Catholicism in 1947. The article recounts how Mrs. Luce, already an established journalist and author at the time of her conversion, wrote the story for Come to the Stable, a tender movie about French nuns in America. Her most recent publication was Saints for Now, a book of “readable and human accounts written by men of several faiths—and none.”
Authoress Hoagland traces Mrs. Luce’s varied career in the literary and theatrical worlds as well as in politics and religion. Prior to her two terms as Congresswoman from Connecticut’s fourth district, she held top editorial posts on Vogue and Vanity Fair, wrote a number of articles and special reports for Life, and wrote three plays produced both on Broadway and in Hollywood.
Grad School Exams | To Be Given Quarterly f
Students who plan on entering gradu- C ate or law schools next September are $ asked to take special note of the exams f to be held this year.
The Graduate Record Examinations re- £ quired of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools will be at	f
Notre Dame on Nov. 14, and Jan. 30;	|
and May 1 and July 10 of 1954. The all-	|
day test will be given by Mr. E. R.	|
Quinn in room 250 of the Main Building.	£
The Educational Testing Service ad-	C
vises each applicant to inquire at the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which dates.
The Graduate Record Examinations offered in these nationwide programs inelude a test of general scholastic ability , and advanced level tests of achievement । in 17 different fields of subject matter. According to E.T.S., candidates are permitted to take the aptitude test and/or ; one of the advanced tests.	I
Application forms and a bulletin of information may be obtained at the testing center on the second flooi’ of the Main Building. Applications must reach the E.T.S. office at least 15 days before the date of the tests.
The Law School Admission Test required for admission to a number of American Law schools will be given here on the mornings of Nov. 14, 1953, Feb. 20, April 10, and August 7, 1954. The 3-hour tests will be conducted by Mr. R. J. Waddick in room 254 of the Main Building.
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and then should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admissions Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the Spring preceding their entrance, candidates are advised to take either the November or the February tests, if possible.
The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a bulletin ;j of information.
Bulletins and applications for the test should be acquired four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admissions Test, Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Complete applications * must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date.
10
The Scholastic
JUST BEFORE THE GAME The Scene Changes Between Halves
'The Gang's All Here' Atmosphere Prevails As Grads Reminisce at New Alumni Booth
By JIM MASON
“Notre Dame men, meet your friends at the Alumni Service Booth outside gate 5,” is an announcement that the ears of the alumni have long awaited.
There has been an increasing demand since the end of the war years, for a place where the alumni could gather and reminisce with the men that they knew as fellow students in their college days. Because the alumni are so scattered throughout the country, and many return to Notre Dame on special trips or trains, such a converging spot has long been needed.
Because many of the men returning to the campus arrive Saturday morning and leave again after the game, all possible meeting places on the campus proper were ruled out because they would be out of the way. After much discussion, the present spot was selected for the erection of the booth, since it is located just outside of the alumni section of the stadium.
In a survey made of the Class of ’28 and also of several recent graduates, it was found that what Notre Dame alumni appreciate most, are the many and lasting friendships that are born during their school years. The booth is planned as a follow-up to nurse and renew these acquaintances.
Although the booth is primarily a central meeting place for Notre Dame men,
it has found other uses. Alumni can register their changes of address on the mailing list at the Alumni Association Office, they can contact former classmates of whom they have lost track, and they can get general information concerning the University.
A plan to seat alumni by classes had been proposed as a method to solve the problem, but it was rejected in favor of the present democratic system of “first come, first served,” since a man would have to be out of school ten years before he would ever have a chance to get a seat inside the 15-yard line.
Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association says of the booth, “It is an experiment and we expect it will take a season to develop, but it is closer to solving the problem than anything we have tried in the past.” Although the booth was visited by only a few men after the first game, following the last two it has been almost impossible to get near it.
The booth, which is open an hour before and an hour after the game, is staffed by members of the Generation Club, a group of student sons and grandsons of alumni. Walter Trohan and John Casey have manned it for the first three games.
The meeting plan is as follows: before ’20 on the west side of the booth; ’20 to ’30 on the east side; ’31 to ’42 on the south side; and ’43 to' ’53 on the north side.
Federal Sources List Job Opportunities
The United States Civil Service Commission has again announced its Junior Management Assistant and Junior Agricultural Assistant examination for filling positions in Washinton, D. C., and throughout the United States. The entrance salary for the agricultural positions is §3,410 a year, and for the management positions $3,410 and $4,205.
For the Junior Management Assistant examination, applications must be filed not later than Nov. 12, and for the Junior Agricultural Assistant examination, not later than Dec. 1.
The Junior Management Assistant examination is designed to bring into the Federal service outstanding young men and women for training and development into future Federal executives. The Junior Agricultural Assistant examination is for filling positions in various, fields of agriculture. To qualify, applicants must pass written tests and must have had appropriate education or a combination of education and experience. Students who expect to complete their courses by June 30, 1954, may ap-piy-
Appropriate experience alone may be qualifying for some positions. Candidates for the Junior Management Assistant examination who meet the requirements will be given an oral interview. The age limits, waived for persons entitled to veteran preference, are 18 to 35 years, except for the position of Agricultural Writer-Editor for which there is no maximum age limit.
Further information and application forms may be secured from the Placement Office.
Catholic Action Commission Plans Symposium Here Dec. 7 |
The National Catholic Action Study Commission will sponsor a symposium on : apostolic formation at the University on i Dec. 7 and 8 to train local members to reconcile formation and action within the framework of student life.
The four papers planned are: “The Church in History—The Creative Response of the Layman,” by Vincent J. Giese, Fides Publishers, Chicago; “Formation Through Action,” by Rev. Joseph C. Haley, C.S.C.; “Apostolic Formation and Personal Spirituality,” by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.; and “Apostolic Formation and Intellectual Formation —The Problem of,{the- Student Aposto-. late,” by David Burrell.'
Registration is planned for 5:00 p. m. Monday, Dec. 7, with the opening talk at 7:30 p. m. The symposium will be : continued at 3:30 Tuesday, Dec. 8.
November 6, 1953
11
Scries Ploy by Continental Casualty of Chicago Covers More Than 1,000 Notre Dame Students
Approximately 1,000 Notre Dame students are now being covered by the voluntary participation plan of accident and sickness insurance of the Continental Casualty Co. of Chicago. This plan is designed especially for the University of Notre Dame and is available to all students.
This is the first such plan ever tried at the University and is the result of over two years work by the Student Senate and the University administration. It is believed that this insurance plan for Notre Dame is the only student voluntary participation plan of its kind in the country.
John O’Meara has been appointed campus representative for the Continental Casualty Co., by the Student Senate. His office will be in the LaFortune Student Center.
Coverage under the benefits of this plan began on the first day of University registration in .the Fall and continues for the next 12 months. Full protection is in effect during all vacation periods. A student participating in intramural athletics is covered by the plan but those taking part in inter-collegiate sports are not covered for any injuries received while participating in that sport.
Full reimbursement is made for hospital room and board, doctors’ or surgeons’ fees, X-rays, drugs, medicines, nurses’ fees, ambulance service, and
ENGINEERING BALL ONLY A WEEK AWAY
Chairman Nashert and Committee Go Over Final Plans
other miscellaneous expenses such as operating room fees, anesthetics and laboratory tests.
“The cost for a whole year’s coverage is $21 and no physical examination is required. Students can now obtain coverage until Sept. 15, 1954 for $17.50,” O’Meara said. He added that the plan was unique in that the student is covered during the summer vacation, other vacations and over weekends. O’Meara reminded students that they are often not covered by their parents’ insurance if they are over 18.
In event of accident or illness during the school year, the student should contact O’Meara for a claim form and report his illness or accident to the Infirmary. While on vacation he should report to a qualified physician for treatment, then obtain a claim form from the Continental Casualty Co., at 310 So. Michigan Ave., Chicago 4, Ill. If the vacation period is merely a weekend, for instance, the Infirmary should also be notified of the treatment administered by another physician.
The voluntary insurance plan doesn’t replace or change the services of the University Health Service and the Infirmary will continue to provide care for ordinary accidents or illness while the student is at the University. The plan only gives further protection over and above that provided by the University Health Service.
SENATE OFFICERS ANNOUNCE HOURS
Offices of the Student Senate, -located in the new Student Center, are open at the following times:	.
Secretary—3:30 to 5 p.m. on ' Tuesdays and Thursdays; 1:30 to	<i
3:30 p.m. on Wednesdays.
Treasurer—3:30 to 5 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and _ Fridays.	.
Engineers Evidence Enthusiasm for Ball(
Successful ticket sales have amply evidenced the enthusiasm which campus engineers have shown for their annua] ball to be held next Friday from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. in the new Student Center.
Chairman of the dance committee, Jack Nashert announced recently that the bids, which went on sale Oct. 26, are completely sold out.
Corsages will be provided for the dates of the engineers as the couples enter the door. The price of the flowers has been included in the cost of the bids.
The music of Dick Carlton and his orchestra will serenade the 160 couples attending the dance. Don Gels and his aggregation will play during the intermissions.
Carlton has been a featured attraction on nearly all of the large networks in the country. He has appeared recently on the “Fitch Bandwagon,” popular NBC network show.
In addition to these appearances, Carlton has been engaged periodically in the Statler Hotel chain. His orchestra has also played “America’s Smartest Music” for the King • of Sweden.
Decorations for the dance will center around a “Moonlight Bay” theme which will feature a fountain in the patio of the Center. Dance-goers -will have a chance to have their pictures taken with a “Moonlight Bay” background and Carlton has promised to complete the effect with appropriate music.
As per usual, the favors have been shrouded in the strictest secrecy but the committee assures the ball-goers that they will be “a pleasant surprise.”
Following the pattern of the Sophomore Cotillion the refreshments will be served downstairs in the two anterooms.
Assisting Nashert in preparing for the ball are: Bill Till, business manager; Ed Christiano, ticket chairman; and Lee Brockway, publicity chairman.
The Scholastic
12
Interviews Fill Week At Placement Bureau
:	Employment interviews for graduate
students and seniors who will complete their courses in January will be held next week as usual in the Main Building. Only the students who are officially registered in the Placement Bureau are eligible to sign up for the interviews.
1	Four interviews are scheduled for
Monday. The Columbia-Southern Chemical Corp, will interview chemical, me' chanical, industrial, and civil engineer-k ing students, and candidates in chemistry.
Electrical, mechanical, aeronautical, and physics students will be interviewed by AC Spark Plug Division.
The American Telephone and Telegraph System and all its divisions will , interview AB and commerce men for varied work, in addition to electrical, mechanical, industrial, metallurgical, and aeronautical engineers. Candidates in aerodynamics, mathematics, and physics will also be interviewed.
Prospective graduates in physics, chemistry, metallurgy, and mathematics will be inter-viewed by the General Electric Co. These interviews will also be held on Tuesday.
Four other interviews are slated for Tuesday. The Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co. will interview mechanical, < electrical, aeronautical, and industrial engineers, and also candidates in physics.
Honeywell Brown Instrument Division will interview students in physics, and electrical and mechanical engineering.
The Durez Plastics and Chemicals , Corp, will interview electrical engineers who are interested in plant engineering * and candidates in chemistry.
Men in electrical and mechanical engineering and physics will be interviewed by the Westinghouse Electric Corp.
Only one interview is scheduled for Wednesday. The North American Aviation Corp, will interview men in me* chanical, electrical, civil, and aeronautical engineering and also candidates in chemistry and mathematics.
There will be two interviews on Thursday. The New England Mutual Life In" surance Co. will interview AB and commerce men for varied insurance work. A.
June grads in chemistry will be interviewed by the Union Carbide and Carbon Corp. These interviews will also be held on Friday.
Only one other inter-view is slated for Friday. The Consumers Power Co. j. will interview electrical, mechanical, industrial, metallurgical, and aeronautical engineers.
Rockne Painting Presented to University
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, accepts from representatives of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. an original painting of Knute Rockne which appeared recently in one of the company’s national advertisements. John Hancock officials who came to the campus to present Austin Riggs’ painting of the famed Notre Dame coach included (left to right): Miss Margaret Divver, Boston, Mass., advertising manager; Farrel M. Bean, Chicago, Hl., general agent; and Jerry Spahn, 1949 alumnus and company representative in Chicago. Father Hesburgh said that the painting would be hung in the new Student Center. Miss Divver disclosed that the tribute to Rockne—“They Called Him the Man-Maker”—brought one of the greatest reader responses since the series of ads was inaugurated in 1947. More than 50 Notre Dame men who played football under Rockne wrote the company, many of them requesting reproductions of the ad.
Brown's 'Review' Article Discusses Irish History
Religious differences, the spirit of clanship, and poor communications combined to prevent a united Ireland in the first half of the 19th century, according to an article in the current Review of Politics published at the University.
In an article entitled “Nationalism and the Irish Peasant, 1800-1848,” Prof. Thomas N. Brown of the Department of History notes that “a thousand light years and more separated the Georgian splendor- of Dublin from the rude Gaelic society of the West. And in all the provinces there were pockets where distinctive local cultures stubbornly endured . . . where the people maintained a severe aloofness, marrying among themselves and ignoring outsiders.”
Alluding to the clannishness of the Irish, Professor Brown writes of fac
tions “Loosely allied through kinship, in whom ancestral pride and love of combat were so strong that year after year- they would fight with hostile factions at fairs and patterns (religious pilgrimages), or wherever they met in sufficient numbers. Sometimes the origin of the feud was forgotten,” the Notre Dame historian points out. -
Even though the Irish peasant dung to an outmoded social code and still looked to his lord or chieftain for protection, “feudalism in Ireland in the years before the Famine was dying,” Professor Brown observes. The most powerful forces in the breaking down of the feudal order in rural Ireland, he writes, “were the economic forces working from the latter half of the 18th century to assimilate the economy of Ireland into that of England.”
November 6, 1953
13
National Student Association Names Saunders To Take Ohio-Indiana Regional Chairmanship
Joseph Saunders has been awarded the regional chairmanship of the Ohio-Indiana National Student Association according to a recent dispatch from NS A national headquarters.
Saunders was elected vice-chairman of the region at the national convention
Michigan Professor Ends Talks Monday
Clare Elmer Griffin, professor of business economics at the University of Michigan, will conclude a series of four lectures Monday in the College of Commerce. He will speak at 2:30 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Griffin is the second guest lecturer to speak this fall under the auspices of the University’s College of Commerce Advisory Council. The Council, which met recently on the campus, is composed of 36 prominent busi-■ ness and industrial executives from coast-to-coast.
Professor Griffin was dean of the School of Business Administration and director of the Bureau of Business Research at the University of Michigan from 1927-43. He served on the research staff of the Committee for Economic Development from 1943-46 and was president of the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business.
Educated at Albion College and at the University of Illinois where he received his doctorate, Professor Griffin taught at Dartmouth and Johns Hopkins University before joining the University of Michigan faculty in 1919.
CLARE E. GRIFFIN
Concludes Lecture Series Monday
held at Ohio State University last year. He assumed the top office upon the recent resignation of his predecessor.
The newly-appointed chairman is a junior in pre-law, majoring in economics. He is a cheerleader and publicity chairman for the Student Senate. When notified of his appointment, Saunders found it necessary to relinquish his Junior Prom co-chairmanship. Don Yeckel assumed the Prom chairmanship.
Notre Dame joined the NSA last year and is very active in its activities. Along with Saunders, Thomas Field and James Richards were the other official delegates from Notre Dame to the national convention.
Notre Dame is regarded as the probable location of the national convention next Summer.
The NSA is an association of student government groups who gather to discuss academic problems and their solutions. More than 300 institutions have their student bodies represented in the organization. It was created to serve the American student community and promote students’ interests and welfare.
Any college, university, junior college, normal school, or technical school can join the NSA upon the ratification of its constitution. Each member institution belongs to one of 20 geographical regions which operate individually.
While returning from the World Student Congress in Prague, Czechoslovakia, in 1946, 25 students conceived the idea of the NSA. In 1947 a constitution was drafted and a program mapped out.
The aims are specifically outlined in the preamble to its constitution: “ . . . maintain academic freedom, stimulate and improve democratic student government, develop better educational standards, improve student welfare, promote international understanding, guarantee to all people equal rights and possibilities for education, and foster the recognition of the rights and responsibilities of students to the school, community, humanity, and God, and to preserve the interests and integrity of the government of the U.S.A.”
Four national commissions carry out the various programs. They are student affairs, educational affairs, international affairs, and student government.'
In addition to the broad programs of the commissions, NSA operates the nationwide student discount service. They established discount contracts with the merchants of various cities, providing students with helpful discounts.
DON YECKEL Early Planning for Prom
Prom Planners Choose
Center for Dance May 7
May 7 has been set as the date of the Junior Prom by Don Yeckel, chairman of the dance.
Because of the success of the Sophomore Cotillion, the Student Center has been selected as the site for the Prom. Besides the modern atmosphere, the Center can accommodate the expected 500 couples much more adequately than the Rock.
Joe Saunders, an economics major from Amarillo, Texas, originally cochairman along -with Yeckel, has submitted his resignation to Junior Class President, Jim Sherer. Saunders was recently appointed chairman of the Ohio-Indiana region of the National Student Association, and decided to resign.
The theme as yet has not been determined, but definite plans are under way to have a ring ceremony the night of the big dance. It is hoped that this ‘will initiate a fine and lasting tradition for the junior class.
A dinner-dance on Saturday night, which made such a tremendous hit with prom-goers last year, will be under the supervision of Jim Griffin. There is also a possibility that the Old Timer’s game will be held that Saturday afternoon. On Sunday morning the traditional Communion Breakfast will be held. This will be handled by Jim Hesburgh. For those interested, there will be a matinee of the student musical Sunday afternoon.
Other chairmen for the Junior Prom are John O’Meara, business manager; Ray Kennedy, publicity; George Carhart, tickets; George Vosmik, hotel rooms; Dan Moore, refreshments; and Clem Devine, transportation. The decorations chairman will be announced in the near future as applications are now being considered.
The Scholastic
14
LAW BALL COMMITTEE
Organize ‘Barristers’ Interlude’
'Barristers' Interlude’ To Feature Don Gels
Arrangements for the 1953 version of “Barristers’ Interlude” are proceeding smoothly as the Nov. 20 deadline draws near. Bid Chairman Tom Hanrahan reports that tickets are still available for all Law students and seniors who are entering the Law School.
Don Gels and his “Men of Note” will provide music from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. for the formal dance. The trumpet-playing leadei- and his band combine smooth orchestration with swinging rhythm in the Ray Anthony style to provide listenable and danceable music.
This weekend, the “Men of Note” will travel to the Penn game in Philadelphia with the Notre Dame Marching Band. The perennial campus favorites also provide music for the weekly Victory Dances to add to their heavy schedule.
Unique invitations in the form of Old English Writs of Subpoena will add interest to the evening, reported committeeman Bill McFadden.
“The writs are worded appropriately for the occasion,” added McFadden, “and should provide an amusing and original touch to the dance.” The Writs will be delivered to the attending couples before the dance.
Tickets for the Iowa game the following day may be obtained from Ticket Chairman Bob Maley, while Joe Delisi will arrange transportation to and from the dance for all who wish it.
Ed Lanske, Dick Cotter, and Ed Walsh will make blind date arrangements for all who may be interested, and Frank Manzo will assist in locating rooms for visiting dates.
University’s Developmental Reading Program Uses Accelerators to 'Force' Faster Readmg
“Most college students try to read very slowly and comprehend all the details without prior orientation or putting into practice efficient study skills,” said Richard D. Willemin, director of the University’s Developmental Reading Program.
He stated that the reading program aims at improving the student’s memory and vocabulary, increasing his ability to concentrate, and giving him more efficient eye movement. It accomplishes all this through comprehension and speed tests, the tachistoscope, and the pace reader.
After a student has paid the laboratory fee, he is ready to start the noncredit course which is taught for one semester three hours a week. For the first three weeks the student spends his time on reading and studying techniques whereby he learns to read words by groups and comprehend the contents better, thus tending to increase his speed.
Freshman I.Q.’s Show Slight Improvement
Mr. Edward R. Quinn of the Testing and Guidance Bureau announced that this year a total of 1,394 freshmen were tested at the beginning of the school year.
From these 1,394 freshmen, 395 were enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, 418 in the College of Commerce, 361 in the College of Engineering, and 220 in the College of Science.
A relatively few of the incoming freshmen failed to take these tests with their fellow classmates. Those were tested Oct. 13, adding another 25 to 30 men to the incoming class.
Beginning this week the freshmen are being called in small groups by Mr. Quinn so that they may be given an interpretative leaflet with the test scores.
All the tests and scores will be explained at the interviews. Interpretative leaflets will be distributed to the students that they may send them home to their parents.
After the students have been interviewed in small groups and given their test scores, anyone desiring individual counseling or further explanation of the test scores can arrange for such interviews on their own.
Mr. Quinn said that “The freshman class as a whole seems to be a little superior in- all aspects to the classes preceding it in the last several years.”
The tachistoscope or flash meter is of great aid in the orientation. This device is used to develop more effective vision, quicker perception, more efficient visual span, faster recognition, and increased speed and comprehension in reading. Its slides contain words, phrases, and numbers which can be flashed from one full second to 1/100 of a second. This makes the student read faster.
Comprehension Tests Come First
At the start of each class the student takes comprehension tests in order to measure his progress in reading skill and speed. Following this, he moves to the reading pacer or accelerator where he is “forced” to read more rapidly. This device has a shutter which moves steadily down the page of the book placed under it. In using it, comprehension is sacrificed to develop better eye movement and rhythm that is essential to good reading.
“This,” Mr. Willemin said, “comprises the whole course. However, the backbone of the course is motivation, that is, all the students in the course desire to be better students by being better readers.” He emphasized that the students themselves have acknowledged the value of the course with regard to making their study hours more productive.
The 171 students enrolled in the course include faculty members, graduate students, Law students, and many undergraduates.
“This goes to show,” Mr. Willemin added, “that a person is never too old to learn to read properly.”
STUDENT TAKES READING COURSE For Faster, Better Reading
November 6, 1953
15
Lyons Slops Up Badin In Mud Bowl Contest
It had been pouring rain for the past five hours. A telephone call went through to Lyons Hall. . . . “The Badin Bogmen will be over in half an hour for the an
nual Mud Bowl Game. Get your team together.” The time had come. The game was on!
A half-hour later both teams assembled for calisthenics in the stadium (Lyons’ old tennis courts). It was still raining and the field was a’-sea of mud. Just right for the second annual Mud Bowl Game, which Lyons won last year 18-0.
The Bogmen won the toss, however, and elected to receive. Don Shanley, slippery Badin halfback, took the kick-ofi on the goal line and went twelve yards before he was dropped in the muck. On the first play from scrimmage the referee threw down his flag and with one slurp it was sucked into the mire never to be found again. The referee went home.
On the next play Tom Caplet broke through to recover a Badin fumble. Three plays later Brad Bailie splashed around right end for five yards and the first score for Lyons.
Badin’s only serious threat came late in the second quarter when Jack Murray gathered in a fourth down desperation pass but was stopped just one yard short of paymud.
VICTORS IN ANNUAL ‘MUD BOWL’ STRUGGLE
Lyonites Jubilant About ‘Sloppy’ 25-0 Win Over Badin
Dr. Francis Directs Doctoral Projects
The first doctoral candidates of the
Department of Sociology are working on their dissertations under the guidance of Dr. E. K. Francis. Both research projects are in the general field of ethnic groups and race relations.
In the third quarter, Badin lost the services of “Bulldog” Jim Griffin and quarterback Tom Cassidy when they were both tossed out of the game for throwing mud balls at the opposing quarterback. The Bogmen never quite recovered from this loss and the Lizards went on to push over two more touchdowns and an extra point. “Moose” Patz counted both of the tallies and Bailie converted for the extra point.
John Russo, stocky Badin halfback, still swears that at the change at quarters, when he couldn’t distinguish between the muddy uniforms, he got into the wrong huddle and ran for one of Lyons’ touchdowns. Bob Anderson scored the fourth Lizard tally. Final score: Lyons 25, Badin O.
Dave Collins, Lyons, and Carl Peters, Badin, were elected “most dirty players,” figuratively speaking of course. Selections for the “All Mud Bowl” team will be announced next week.
The thesis by Mr. Charles O’Reilly is -based on questionnaire studies of preju- ■?
dice using a sample of Italian Catholic students and several comparable samples of American Catholic college men and women.
Mr. Russell Barta’s dissertation is concerned with the problem of secularization with special reference to American ethnic groups having a Catholic background.
Mrs. Morris is “Woman of Year”
“Woman of the Year” honors were bestowed on Mrs. E. M. Morris, co-donor of the Morris Inn, when the South Bend Press Club held its annual dinner at the Indiana club last week. Chosen for South Bend’s most prominent citizenry award in 1953, Mrs. Morris’ only remark was “Giving does as much for the giver as it does for the recipient.”
The selection for the “Woman of the Year” award is based solely on the basis of unselfish service to the’ community.
Mrs. Morris was awarded the honor for her many cultural and educational gifts to South Bend and also for the giving of her time and resources for the promotion of city, state, and national organizations.
Arbitration Proceedings Available
Proceedings of the Conference on Arbitration in Labor-Management Relations have been published and are now available from the Notre Dame Arbitration Committee at $1.25, Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., has announced.
Name “Outstanding Patriot"
In conjunction with the revision of the annual Washington Day Exercises, the senior class is to have the opportunity of selecting that American who best deserves the title “Outstanding Patriot of 1953.”
It is anticipated that the selected individual will be able to appear here personally on Feb. 22 to receive the award for patriotism and to deliver the main address at the Washington Day exercises.
Hall presidents and representatives will distribute and collect the ballots within the next few days. By careful selection and prudent judgment, it is hoped that this annual award will eventually become as significant and as respected in its field as the internationally renowned and distinguished Laetare Medal, presented annually to the “Outstanding Catholic Layman.”
16
The Scholastic
Early in the 1800’s, corner of Michigan and Washington Streets, where St. Joseph’s Bank is, was muddy cross-roads.
SOUTH BEND: Memoirs of a City
r
Who they were, where they came from, what became of them, no one knows. The first settlers of South Bend are a mystery. We know that they were “mound builders,” but why they built their- mounds is lost in history, and what made them leave the St. Joseph Rivervalley is also a mystery. But we know that they were here, because you can still walk east about five miles down the St. Joe River, turn south and come upon these mounds—the remains of the first inhabitants of the Michiana area.
Some time after the mound builders left, the Indian was attracted by the fertile soil lining the valley. The Pota-watomies, peace-loving members of the Miami Confederation, whose dominion stretched from the Great Lakes to the Ohio Valley, settled along the river and began to farm.
Iroquois Force Peace
Few nations of Indians could withstand an Iroquois attack, and after a few desultory skirmishes in which the Pota-watomies fared badly, the Iroquois were able to force a peace. The Potawatomies were able to negotiate the terms in their favor, however, and were allowed to keep their territory.
Soon after this war, in 1675, the famous French missionary, Father Mar
quette, sailed down the St. Joseph in a canoe, stopping off to preach at the Indian settlement.
La Salle First Promoter
These tales of Father Marquette stirred the interest of a young French nobleman who had come to the new world in search of adventure, Rene Robert Chevalier, Sieur de la Salle. La Salle made a trip to the St. Joe settlement.
La Salle became the first promoter of the South Bend area, and because of him numerous settlers loaded up their covered wagons to try their luck at the new land.
But after the first influx of settlers into the region, there came a period during which few, if any, people turned their face to the west. The cause of this was not due to any lack of interest in the fertile land, but rather to the series of French and Indian wars that lasted throughout the latter part of the 17th and the last half of the 18th century. These wars kept English pioneers out of the area, because it was considered French territory, and the French were far too busy fighting the English to settle down.
It wasn’t long after this that the Revolutionary War broke out, and the new
nation was too busy keeping on its feet to bother with settling new territories.
After the Revolution, it was some time before the people began to take an active interest in the Western Reserve, of which Indiana was a part. In 1820, though, Pierre Navarre, a famous scout and trader of the area, came to South Bend. He built himself a cabin and began to trade with the Potawatomies. He was quite a success with the Indians, and was often invited to their tribal ceremonies. At one of these ceremonies he met the daughter of the chief, and it wasn’t long after that he married her and raised himself a family of six children.
Then Came Coquillard
Navarre was the first white settler to set up his house in what is now known as South Bend, but it wasn't long after him that Alexis Coquillard, whose grave is in the cemetery on Notre Dame Avenue, came to the settlement.
A tall, handsome Frenchman with a knack of organizing, Coquillard arrived in 1823, and from then on, South Bend began to grow.	-
In 1827, Lathrop M. Taylor, another fur trader, settled down. At the same time, South Bend began to take on an
, November 6, 1953
17
Southwest Corner, Colfax and Michigan Streets—now Ford Hopkins.
aura of culture, for Taylor was the first literate person of South Bend.
This literacy of Taylor, and the organizational ability of Coquillard made a great team. Before long they brought the attention of the United States government to this little spot on the map by requesting a tract of land from the government. Receiving the grant, the pair promptly called it Southold, for reasons only Coquillard and Taylor knew. And Taylor, being literate, thought that it was time to build a post office. So an
An early view of the Oliver Hotel lobby shows what the elegant tourist expected.
abandoned crockery cabinet in his log cabin became the first mailbox in the region.
When this happened, the government decided that they had let Southold alone long enough. To show that they knew the miniature community existed, the Postmaster General in Washington directed that the name of the post office be changed to South Bend, and the name has remained so ever since.
The St. Joe river now became crowded with flatboats, canoes, and every other
type of sailing craft that could navigate the stream, as settlers began to pour into the city. Oxen, pulling wagons full of bawling children with their parents, began to make the one small street of the town a muddy mess, as people came overland from Toledo.
Stores began to spring up on Michigan and Main streets, bridges were built over the river, and the city began to expand to the north. The expansion of the city was really marked when it got its first newspaper, the St. Joseph Valley Register, founded in 1845 by Schuyler Colfax. The paper was later absorbed by The South Bend Tribune, founded by Alfred Miller and Elmer Crockett in 1873.
Culture Comes to South Bend
Culture began to come to South Bend, too, and the Old Opera House across from the Oliver Hotel, was held to be “the finest auditorium west of the Alleghenies” by such stars as Mary Garden.
But, as in all frontier towns, some of the new settlers were of the rough-and-ready type, and it was then that South Bend had to develop a fine municipal government for which it is still noted. This government developed many politicians of high caliber, and the outstanding one of these was a tall, rangy man by the name of Schuyler Colfax.
“Schuy” got his political start as the editor of his Register, which soon became the leader of Whig opinion in the Michiana area. Colfax’s flaming editorials won him quite a bit of distinction, and he was selected to go to the Whig conventions of 1848 and 1850.
There he found out that the Whig party’s day was over, so, like the good politician that he was, he quickly became a Republican, and served several terms in Congress.
Colfax began to find his way around the White House after his first term. Found it so well, in fact, that he became the bell-wether of the party, and was elected to be Speaker of the House three times. His popularity began to grow and he was chosen to run for the Vice Presidency on the same ticket with Grant, who was swept into office, Schuyler riding in on his coat-tails.
Studebakers Open Shop
Unfortunately Schuyler became deeply involved in the Credit Mobilier railroad scandal. He returned to South Bend after that, but the local citizenry held rather an active dislike for the gentleman who was supposed to be the very cream of South Bend politicos, so he moved to Mankato, Minnesota, where he died.
In 1852, Henry and Clement Studebaker, a pair of enterprising blacksmiths from the East, aii'ived in the city and set up a forge. South Bend’s first big contribution to the nation’s in-
The Scholastic
18
dustry was beginning. The Studebakers had a knack for building buggies, and build buggies they did, until their wagons were looked on as the Cadillacs of their day.
Even as soon as this, the government was giving out government contracts, and very often, “rebs” would ambush whole wagon-trains of Studebaker buggies, used by the North during the Civil War.
In 1902, the Studebaker corporation kept up with the march of progress by beginning the manufacture of “horseless’' carriages. And from then on, the progress of the company which produces 6% of all cars on the road today is well-known.
In 1855, a farmer by the name of James Oliver came to the city with a dream. He was tired of farming but remembered the difficulty of plowing with the old wooden plow. He wanted to invent a plow which would turn the earth faster and wear better. He succeeded by coming up with the chilled steel plow, which sold like the proverbial hotcake.
From its early days as the Southold post office located in a cupboard, South Bend had now become the hub of industry in Indiana. The Singer Sewing Machine Company set up a plant here, and the South Bend Lathe Company is world famous for its precision industrial tools.
Football Draws Crowds
The city became more attractive, too. During the days of Knute Rockne, South Bend began to put on its best duds for the football crowds which flocked to the city to see the famed Notre Dame teams Play.
The two World Wars also had a deep effect on the city, as it built up one of the finest production records in the nation. Several new industries sprang up at this time, and notable among them is the Bendix Corporation. The influx of workers, attracted by the high wages and chances for advancement, caused a swelling of the population, which is notable for its wide mixture of nationalities and races.
South Bend is now the second largest city in Indiana, fairly large and thriving industrially. It is considered as the typical American community, and is used as a research area by such pollsters as Gallup. But being “typical” doesn’t stop the people of South Bend from expanding their city that had its beginning in a crockery cupboard.
The old St. Joseph County Courthouse, on So. Lafayette Blvd., now serves as the Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum.
Covering the Nation ...
By JOHN O’MEARA
As the official tossed the coin in the middle of Notre Dame Stadium last week, the big man in the press box behind the WSBT sign took the mike and began a broadcast that would reach football fans from New York to California, from Washington to Florida, and our fighting men all around the world.
This Saturday, as every Saturday Notre Dame plays football, innumerable Notre Dame supporters and potential Notre Dame supporters across the nation were hearing the week by week, play by play account of the team. For Joe Boland’s Irish Football Network was on the air and piping to its 115 subscribers throughout the country the' Notre Dame story.
The Irish Football Network is unusual. Unusual in its size and organization, and unusual, too, because few men at Notre Dame know more about it than
20
the fact that it exists. But this network, from its small beginning in 1947, now services thirty-one states, Alaska, and Honolulu. Each Fall a new area of the country has been opened up. This year the Oklahoma-Texas area is getting its first taste' of weekly Notre Dame football.
This extremely rapid development of a major broadcast system is a giant tribute to both the team’s great appeal and to the organizational and broadcasting ability of Boland and company. Last year in competition with the older and formerly larger football hook-ups of the top networks, the Irish Football Network gained the top spot in radio pulse ratings, a method of measuring the number of listeners.
Joe Boland, best known in these parts as sports director of WSBT, first conceived the idea of a nationwide, independent radio hook-up for the Notre Dame games before the 1947 season. Through -
the urging of midwestern fans, he signed a handful of willing stations and sent through them the verbal picture' of the 1947 battles.
From this more or less humble beginning, the Irish Football Network has grown by leaps and bounds until it is now, at 115 stations, the largest specialized network in existence. In addition to the national circulation of Boland’s descriptions, Armed Forces Radio carried six of his ten broadcasts last year, three of these going to the military both in Europe and the Far East, and is doing the' same this year.
What enables Joe Boland to describe each game so vividly is his thirty years of experience in playing, coaching, and broadcasting the nation’s favorite Fall sport.
A native of Pennsylvania, Joe was a high school athletic star, and was influenced by his high school coach, a Notre Dame graduate, to further his education
The Scholastic
at Notre Dame, under Knute Rockne, who was just attaining maturity as a national football power.
He broke into Notre Dame varsity football in 1924 as a tackle on the Four Horsemen team. In 1925, he played regularly as one of Rockne’s Shock Troops, and that same year in Notre Dame’s first and, to date, last appearance in the Rose Bowl, Boland played 50 minutes as the Irish defeated Stanford. Boland spent most of his senior football season in a hospital with a broken leg he received in that year’s second game against Minnesota.
He was graduated, a monogram-win-
games-a-year
monitor, almost
Phil Chasey, the engineer, tests “gain” on
equipment needed for
broadcast.
all the
terest in radio and had been doing freelance announcing for WSBT. He left South Bend again in 1941 and headed south for Purdue. But after a year as line coach for Purdue, Boland decided to make radio a full-time activity. He has been a sportscaster for WSBT, except for a brief stay at WGN in Chicago, since that time.
Joe lives only a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus with his wife, and son, who is planning to enter Notre Dame next year, and daughter and is now one of the hardest working men in his line. Few announcers can top his 27-
pace in broadcasting col
lege and pro football. Except for a few special games, like this year’s College All-Star game, all Boland broadcasts are of Notre Dame and Chicago Cardinal games. Consequently, Joe has little difficulty in identifying for himself Irish and Chicago players, which leaves his one spotter, Howard Murdock, with only the opponents’ gridders to concern himself with.
Sitting beside Boland at the home games, Herb Juliano helps Joe with some of the technical aspects of the broadcast, such as keeping the sponsors happy by getting their commercials off on schedule. Herb, a former player for the Philadelphia A’s, and still a free-lance scout for the same team, now spends most of his time learning more about his new field of radio and television.
Herb’s principal job is to handle the ever-increasing paper and technical work of the growing network.
Meanwhile, the results of the weeks of labor are obtained every Saturday afternoon, when Boland, Juliano, and spotter Howie' Murdock gather in the pressbox and send to the radios of the world the story of the Fighting Irish.
Joe Boland’s baby of a few years has grown spectacularly. Now in its seventh year, there seems to be no reason, outside of the NCAA revoking its ban on college television, that the network should not continue to grow in coming years. Especially with Notre Dame football promising to retain its usual high quality for some years to come. Of this, Notre Dame man Joe Boland, Class of ’27, is quite confident.
Joe Boland
and Howie Murdock, who spots
Boland’s man.
Herb Juliano, right-hand
ner in track as well as football, with honors in 1927 and immediately accepted a position as line coach at Santa Clara. After two years at Santa Clara, Boland went to St. Thomas College in Minnesota as athletic director and head football and track coach. After a successful tenure at St. Thomas, he returned to Notre Dame in 1934 as line coach under Elmer Layden. He kept this position until 1941.
Meanwhile, Joe had developed an in-
opposing teams, take a rest during a time-out to allow stations to give commercials.
Altered 'Dome' Cover To Feature Simplicity
A “new look” will be the most prominent feature of this year’s cover of the Dome, the annual Notre Dame yearbook.
The new cover will have an ivory background with a blue design, featuring the five colleges of the University, general activities, and athletics.
The seal of the University has been used as a cover design in the past. However, as Editor Al Suwalsky puts it, “The new cover is simple, modern, and in keeping with the design of the yearbook; it •embodies all the colleges of the University, activities, and athletics. The cover will represent a change from the conventional one that has been a part of the Dome for many years, but it will not be radical.”
Al Balmer, South Bend commercial artist, designed the new cover and is responsible for the over-all theme of the yearbook.
The body of the Dome has also undergone several changes. The book will include material and pictures of all the 90-odd campus clubs. However, hall photographs and other group pictures have been omitted. Photographic features of off-campus and campus life will be among the other progressive steps taken hy this year’s staff.
The editorial staff has been divided in such a manner that each of the seven sections in the yearbook has its own editor. Assisting Suwalsky on the •editorial staff are: Bud LaLonde, associate editor and AB editor; Bon Mazzoli, managing editor; Ned Griffin, business editor; Joe Baumie, engineering and science editor; Gavin King, Law and copy editor; Frank Burke, commerce editor; Dick Williams, activities editor; Bob ■O’Malley, sports editor.
In regard to the general aims of this yearbook, Editor Suwalsky states,
“Photos will be larger and better. The main emphasis will be on higher quality pictures. Also more copies are being printed to take care of the larger demand made last year.”
The Dome will be 356 pages this year. It will be ready for distribution a week before the final exams in May.
Splinter to Address Metallurgical Meet
Wednesday night Mr. W. W. Splinter, machinability engineer for Republic Steel Corp., will address the meeting of the American Society of Metals on the topic, “Machinability of Metals.” The technical session will be held at 8:15 p. m., in Room 5 of the Engineering Building, following a dinner at Nabicht Brothers restaurant.
Mr. Splinter received his engineering degree from the University of Wisconsin. He was trained at Gisholt Machine Co., Madison, Wis., on all types of machines, pattern making, and foundry work. The latter part of his stay with them was spent as a field service man. He was superintendent of Vogt Brothers Manufacturing Co., in Louisville, Ky., in charge of machine shop, pattern shop, and foundry.
Mr. Splinter also has served as division superintendent at Nash Motors in Milwaukee and Kenosha, Wis., in charge of a large battery of multiple and single spindle automatic screw machines and secondary equipment, welding, plating, small punch presses and grinding.
Since 1937 he has been machinability engineer for Republic Steel Corp., and all its subsidiaries, which takes him into hundreds of plants of customers and non-customers to assist management in securing maximum production through use of modern methods of tooling and design in cutting all types of metal.
Reservations for the dinner are $2.50 apiece and must be made before Monday noon.
Illinois Students Lead Campus Enrollment
The state of Illinois, with 886 students enrolled, has the largest representation in the University’s student body of 5,401. A survey of the campus population reveals that Notre Dame students come from every state in the Union and 30 foreign countries and U. S. possessions.
Although Notre Dame has been a Hoosier landmark for more than a century, Indiana ranks second among the states in the University’s enrollment with 779 students on the campus. It may surprise some that 692 New Yorkers make up the third largest state contingent while Ohio places fourth with 407 students.
Other states with large representations include Michigan, 378; Pennsylvania, 308; New Jersey, 257; Wisconsin, 166; Massachusetts, 141; and Missouri, 104. California, with 98 students, just misses being in the top ten states. Nevada’s two students comprise the smallest delegation.
The homes of 141 Notre Dame students are outside the continental United States. Twenty-four Canadians make up the largest group while Hawaii is a close second with 22 students on the campus. The largest bloc of foreign students comes from Latin American nations which are represented by 39 students. Among other countries represented are Saudi-Arabia, Formosa, India, China, Japan, the Philippines and Germany. Although Notre Dame is the home of the “Fighting Irish,” there are no students from the Emerald Isle.
Non-Catholic students at Notre Dame number 208 or about 4 percent of the student body. They are not required to attend Catholic services or religion classes. They are, however, encouraged to attend the church of their choice in South Bend.
The Scholastic
Commerce Ball Dates National Science Foundation Announces Plans To Receive Orchids For Awarding Over 750 Graduate Fellowships
Hal McIntyre’s orchestra, featuring Jeanne McManus on the vocals, will provide melodies for dancing as the Commerce men take over the new Student Center on Nov. 20 for their “Bankruptcy Ball.” From 9 p. m. to 1 a. m., the future wizards of finance and their ladies will swing and sway at the College of Commerce’s second annual ball.
Chairman John Grosspietch and his cohorts have promised a new wrinkle for the affair in the form of a shipment of baby orchids to be flown in from Hawaii. They ■will be presented to the ladies at the door, at no extra cost to their escorts.
Decorations will be minimized since the new Center’s interior is more than adequate in itself, and will simplify matters for committee chairmen John McGraw and Greg Sullivan.
The ball is semi-formal with the usual dance regulations prevailing. Flowers will not be permitted, because of “Operation Orchid.”
The ND-Iowa game on Saturday will be a highlight of the weekend, with the customary victory dance being held that evening in the Navy Drill Hall.
A Sunday morning Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn will follow the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Phil Brehm will serve as master of ceremonies for the final affair of the big Commerce weekend.
MEN BEHIND THE ‘BANKRUPTCY BALL’ Do Flown-in Hawaiian Orchids Set the Theme?
The National Science Foundation has recently announced that it plans to award approximately 750 graduate and post-doctoral fellowships for study in
Fr. McAvoy's History Seminar Set for Tuesday in 'Rock'
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, wall present a history discussion program Tuesday at 7:45 p. m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
In the past Father McAvoy has engaged numerous authoritative lecturers in addition to members of the History Club of Herodotus and other students of Notre Dame who have participated in the unique discussions. Two speakers usually constitute these seminars, encouraging discussion with their presentations of assigned topics.
Speakers listed foi- this Tuesday’s seminar are Mr. Robert Nuner of the Department of Modern Languages, and Rev. Joseph Garvin, C.S.C., assistant director of the Medieval Institute.
Mr. Nuner will speak on Celtic Literature and Medieval History, while Father Garvin’s address will consist of facts about Visigothic Literature and Spanish History.
the sciences for the 1954-55 academic year.
These fellowships are open only to citizens of the United States and will be awarded solely on the basis of ability. They are offered in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological and engineering sciences, including physical anthropology, psychology, physical geography and interdisciplinary fields.
Students studying for either their masters’ or doctoral degrees are eligible for graduate fellowships at the first year, intermediate, or terminal year levels of graduate study. College seniors majoring in the sciences are encouraged to apply for the awards. Those who have received a doctoral degree are eligible for a post-doctoral fellowship.
Evaluation of each candidate’s qualifications will be made by panels of scientists chosen by the National Academy of Sciences, with final selection being made by the National Science Foundation.
Annual stipends for pre-doctoral fellows range from §1,400 to §1,800, while for post-doctoral fellows it is §3,400. In addition to providing limited allowances for dependents and travel, tuition and certain fees will also be paid by the Foundation. A fellowship’s duration is for one year, but applications for renewal can be made.
Selection of pre-doctoral fellows will be based on test scores of scientific aptitude and achievement, academic records, and recommendations regarding each candidate’s abilities. Post-doctoral applicants will not be required to take the examinations.
Program Began in 1919
The fellowship program of the National Academy of Sciences National Research Council was inaugurated in 1919, when 13 outstanding young scientists were selected from scores of applicants. Six were appointed to fellowships in physics, and seven to chemistry. By 1922 the plan was extended to provide fellowships in medicine, and the following year the program was broadened still further to include the biological sciences. Ultimately, today’s well-rounded program of grants was developed.
In order to be considered for the 195455 academic year, post-doctoral applications must be received by the Fellowship Office of the National Research Council by Dec. 15 and graduate applications by Jan. 4.
Additional information and application forms may be secured in the office of the dean of the College of Science.
November 6, 1953
23
NABICHT BROTHERS '	.
Pennsylvania Menu
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 27 Nabicht Brothers Predict:	PENN 7
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
A wonderful way to earn full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the world!
Roam abroad in leisurely fashion seeing all the famous sights and cities ... study at an accredited university from 2 to 6 weeks in an educational center such as London, Paris, Rome. You can do both in one glorious trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. Thousands of students and teachers have taken these trips in the past five years, enjoying a fun-filled jaunt while earning full college credit. You can take a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages ... attend the World Educational Conference in Geneva...arrange a visit to the Orient.
The cost in time and money is surprisingly small. You’ll speed to Europe overnight via TWA. And thrifty TWA Sky Tourist fares stretch your budget. Mail the coupon today!
Hy the finest..
runs ntoniD nnunss
l am interested in:
Uniiersity credits □
Resident study al a foreign uniiersity □
Special countries or areas □
(Specify)---------------
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director TWA Air World Toura	cm-no
380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours to be offered in 1954.
Name______________________________________Position
Address
City______________________________________________Zone
State_______________________________Phone No.
Pianist Lecturer Ganz Opens Series Tuesday
Rudolph Ganz, pianist, conductor and composer, will present a program called, “From Bach to Bartok” Tuesday at 8:15 p. m. in Washington Hall as a part of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Mr. Ganz will both discuss and play selections of some of the representative composers’ works from the early 1700’s to the 1900’s. He will use the discussion period to indicate changes in musical styles that have occurred in the past 250 years and then he will play certain selections to illustrate these changes.
“Ganz has a terrific personality and these discussion-type programs can be understood and enjoyed by anyone—not necessarily musicians,” said Eugene J. Leahy, of the Department of Music and a personal friend of Mr. Ganz. He went on to say that Mr. Ganz gave a similar performance last year in Buffalo and that it was very well received there.
Studied in Europe
Mr. Ganz is president of the Chicago Musical College and has received degrees in music from DePaul University, Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, Grinnell College and the University of Rochester.
He received his early education in Switzerland and studied in Lausanne, Strasbourg and Berlin. He made his debut as a pianist with the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra in 1899 and in 1900 he conducted his own “Symphony in E” with the Berlin group.
Also in 1900, when he was 23, he became head of the piano department of the Chicago Musical College. After five years of teaching he toured Europe and America as a soloist with the leading symphony orchestras, appearing in recitals in more than 400 cities.
From 1921-1927 he was conductor of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra and guest conductor of the symphony orchestras of Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Detroit, Omaha, Denver and Washington, D. C. He also appeared as guest conductor of the stadium concerts in New York, the Hollywood Bowl, the Paris Conservatory Orchestra and the London Philharmonic.
Mr. Ganz rejoined the faculty of the Chicago Musical College in 1929 and became president of that school in 1933.
He served as conductor of the Young People’s Concerts of the New York Philharmonic Symphony from 1939-1948 and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra from 1939-1949.
He is a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Florence, Italy and an Officer of the Legion of Honor.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports ------------------,------ ND Eyes Penn As Victim Number Six
5 V -...-.. ..........
Remaining Opponents Suffer Close Defeats
While the Irish were swamping Navy, all five of their remaining opponents were dropping closely-contested games. The Wolverines of Michigan had <to go all out to beat Penn, this week’s foe, 24-14.
Pennsylvania’s gameness surprised the Ann Arbor homecoming crowd and it took a surge by Michigan to finally pull away. After Ted Kress, the Wolverine quarterback, had scored twice in the second quarter, Penn rolled back and before the Wolverines realized it, little Ed Gramigna had passed to Chet Cornog in the end zone and he added the extra point himself, with ninety seconds left in the half.
Midway in the third period a pass interception set the stage for Penn’s short claim for an upset. Nine plays later the Quakers forged ahead 14-12 on a nine-yard sweep of the left end by Ken Smith.
This was short lived. For just three plays later, after the Penn kickoff, sopho-
(Continued on page 29)
JOE VARAITIS Paces Penn’s Offensive Attack
Irish Invade Philly Hoping to Extend String Against Pennsylvania Before Capacity Crowd
By DAVE KILK EARY
The East will get its first look at the nation’s number one football team tomorrow afternoon when Notre Dame invades Philadelphia to meet Pennsylvania before a sellout crowd of 78,000 fans in Franklin Field. It will mark the fourth meeting of the two schools in a series that was started in 1930.
The Irish, unbeaten in five straight games this year, and now holding a
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
PENN	NOTRE DAME
Castle ....... LE	  Matz
Gurski _______ LT	.. Varrichione
Haggerty _____ LG	  Lemek
Trautman   C .......... Schrader
Cannon ....... RG	—. Mavraides
Shanafelt   RT ......... Hunter
Lavin ........ RE	.. Penza (C.)
Gramigna .... QB	.... Guglielmi
Hynoski .....  LH	   Heap
Smith .......  RH	  Lattner
Varaitis ..... FB	  Worden
Kickoff time—1:30 E.S.T.
string of seven games without a setback will be meeting a confident and high geared Pennsylvania team. George Munger’s Ivy Leaguers will carry a three and three record into tomorrow’s contest. With the exception of the rout by California, Penn has shown a strong ■ defense in their first six games.
Coach Munger has solved his punting problems in the form of Ed Binkoski. Binkoski opened the 1952 season as regular signal caller and blocking back. In the Notre Dame game last fall he had three “coffin corner” kicks that went out of bounds on the 1, 4, and 11-yard lines.
The Quaker forward wall is highlighted by tackle Jack Shanafelt, a senior, who has been an outstanding tackle on defense for two seasons. Last
year his 51 tackles for the season topped all Red and Blue linemen. For his driving defense play in 1952 he was selected as All-East tackle.
The probable starting line for Penn will have Jim Castle and John Lavin at the ends, Jack Shanafelt and John Gurski will man the tackles, Stew Haggerty and John Cannon will be at the guards while George Trautman will be at his accustomed center spot.
Gramigna Spells Trouble
If Pennsylvania opens the game by kicking off, Jim Kopenhaver will start at quarter; if they receive the opening kickoff, 170-pound spitfire Ed Gramigna will handle the signal calling. In the Vanderbilt game, Gramigna was the unsung hero, by completing six passes in as many attempts. One pass completion was good for a touchdown. In somewhat of a sports oddity, Gramigna, in the California game, was the leading passer, ground gainer, and pass receiver.
JOE HEAP
Seeks Undisputed Scoring Lead
November 6, 1953
25
At the left halfback slot will be Bobby Felver or triple-threat Walt Hynoski. Last year Hynoski averaged 37 yards with his kicks, and completed 26 passes for 545 yards. Either Gary Scott or Captain George (Moose) Bosseler, who has an uncanny ability to intercept forward passes, will hold down the right half post.
At fullback will be powerful Joe Va-raitis. In two seasons this 210-pound, 6-foot line smasher, has gained 1,024 yards, averaging 2.6 yards per carry and scored nine touchdowns of the 36 that Pennsylvania has scored the last two years.
Irish Overpower Middies
Last Saturday afternoon the Irish big guns banged away futilely at Navy’s inner defenses for the first period before launching a 26-point foray in the second stanza to clinch a 38-7 victory.
After the Irish had been unsuccessful in their first period drives, Joe Heap, Irish fleet halfback, pounded over the Navy middle for 1 yard and the Irish initial tally. Heap’s jaunt was set up when Quarterback Guglielmi’s aerial to End Don Penza was judged as interference, and Notre Dame was given possession of the ball on the Midshipmens’ 44-yard line.
Irish Captain Don Penza recovered Middie signal-caller Welsh’s fumble as he attempted to pass on the Navy 49-yard line. From this point the ND attack moved to the air as Guglielmi spiraled to Halfback Heap for 22 yards and then hit Heap again with a pass in the end zone which was partially deflected by Welsh.
As the Irish forces began to throw up a barrage of touchdowns, Welsh decided to go to the air in an attempt to put the Middies back in the game, but Guglielmi speared an errant Navy toss and swung 47 yards down the sidelines
NOTRE DAME SINKS MIDSHIPMEN, 38-7
It’s Guglielmi to Heap for Vital Yardage
Lattner Cracks Navy Forward Wall
behind good blocking for the third Irish score. The Irish second team took over the remainder of the period.
Navy’s drive after the kickoff was quickly stifled. Irish halfback Fitzgerald caught the resulting Navy punt at midfield and raced to the Middie 32. After a flurry of line thrusts, fullback McHugh drove 13 yards for a first down. The big Irish pile-driver, playing his best game to date, slashed off tackle for 3 more yards setting the pigskin on the Navy 3 yard marker. Again McHugh blasted away at the wilting Middie forward wall to give the Irish their fourth touchdown of the quarter.
At the start of the second half, Notre Dame’s second team continued pounding the Navy line. McHugh and halfback Dick Washington combined drives to set the ball on the Navy 28. Quarterback Tom Carey elected to carry and found a yawning hole in the middle of the Navy line. The Middie secondary couldn’t hold the slippery Carey and he powered his way for 28 yards for a TD.
The final Irish tally came when end Gene Kapish broke through and blocked a Navy punt. Guard Ed Cook picked up the loose pigskin and raced to the Middie three before being brought down from behind. Carey then flipped a pass to halfback Dick Keller in the end zone to end the scoring.
Irish substitutes got into the game in the last quarter and continued to hold the Navy offense. The contest see-sawed back and forth the whole period until Navy’s aerial attack began to come to life. Quarterback Knotts hit right end Anderson for 23 yards which brought the ball to the Irish 12. Knotts tried to crack the ND line, but failed. Finding the Notre Dame line still indestructible, Knotts heaved to Anderson who pitched out to Padberg who raced into the end zone unscathed.
Alumni Nears Crown; St. Ed's Clinches Tie
Alumni moved one notch closer to the Western league interhall football championship last week, when they won their third straight game, a 13-6 victory over Dillon. St. Ed’s onesided win over an injury-riddled Zahm eleven gave them their fourth straight victory. ,
Only a game with Morrissey remains on the schedule of the men of Alumni. An Alumni win or a tie would bring them the title; a loss would give the crown to Morrissey. St. Ed’s victory clinched at least a title tie in the Eastern loop. Only once-beaten Farley has an outside chance for a share of the crown.
After a scoreless first quarter, Alumni finally broke the ice with a two yard scoring play. Mike Laughlin skirted his own left end for the initial tally.
Both teams were unable to score during the third period, but late in the fourth, Alumni moved the ball to the Dillon nine, and Larry Kaufelz carried the pigskin over. Then with only a few moments left in the contest, Alumni kicked off to Dillon. Dan Healy gathered in the ball on his own 20 and raced the rest of the distance for the score.
St. Ed’s undefeated eleven powered to its fourth consecutive triumph by man-handling outclassed Zahm, 29-0.
Tom Meglen’s boys scored touchdowns in each of the four periods and added a safety in the first quarter. The slippery ball made passing treacherous and the game was contested on the ground for the most part. The sputtering Zahm offense was plagued by fumbles which prevented any sustained marches.
(Continued on page 31)
26
The Scholastic
Frosh Given Track Trials; Irish Indoor Hopes High
During the past three weeks, track Coach Alex Wilson, along with the cooperation of the Physical Education Department, has been holding the annual Freshman track tryouts in the fieldhouse.
Freshmen from each gym class were timed as they ran the trial 135-yard course. In order to be eligible, the contestants had to sprint the distance in 16.5 seconds or less. If able to keep under the maximum, they were given the opportunity of meeting three times a week with Mr. Wilson, and thus the chance of becoming Irish trackmen.
Of those who ran, 132 Freshmen qualified and turned out for practice. The best time registered was 14.6 by Frank Hall from Jamaica, while hot on his heels was Jack Dunnigan who registered a speedy 14.7. Dunnigan hails from New York City; he and Hall, were both track men in high school. John Kirchner rounded the dirt track just .2 of a second behind Dunnigan, with 14.9 and John Keller raced out an even 15.0 for the distance.
The varsity indoor tracksters, who will soon get underway, make Coach Wilson very hopeful. He has at least one returning veteran for each event.
Jim Pitcavage is the core of the sprinters and a lot of responsibility rests on the shoulders of Justin McDonough in the 440 event, while the 880 group .is bolstered by Jimmy Hernon.
Captain Jack Leads Vets .
Cross-country Captain Jack Alexander is the man Mr. Wilson is depending on in the mile, and Sophomore Jim “Spike” Daly is the workhorse of the two-milers. In the hurdles Harvey Newquist is one reason why Coach Wilson says that we should do well in that event.
Captain Joe Springer was third in the pole vault in last year’s NCAA meet with 14’1” and is back again this season. To add to this punch is another returnee, Jim Harrington, who cleared the bar at 14’3” last year.
Tony Genovese is considered a better than average broad jumper and should win some points in the forthcoming meets. Notre Dame’s best shotputter is Jack Cunningham and is very promising again for next Spring.
Lanky Bernie Allard, who high jumped a good 6’7” last year for his best, is only a Sophomore. Each event is sufficiently strong, and makes the Fighting Irish trackmen worthy opponents for any team in the country.
ND Basketball Squad Prepares for Opener; Returning Lettermen Face Rough Schedule
Notre Dame’s 1953-54 edition of the Fighting Irish basketball squad began workouts last Monday in preparation for the forthcoming campaign. The team will have approximately a month to prepare for its openei- on December 3, the first game of a 22-game schedule.
Five newcomers are among the teams added to the schedule this season. Foremost among the additions is a good shooting Navy club, which is loaded with veterans, and boasted a scoring average of 79.7 points a game last season to rank among the nation’s leaders. Others are Detroit, Ball State, Canisius, and Pennsylvania.
Face NCAA Champs Dec. 14
Indiana’s NCAA champions are back to haunt the Irish again this season, with a December 14 contest slated for Bloomington. The Irish will be out to avenge their 79-66 loss to the Hoosiers in the final game of the NCAA regional semi-finals at Chicago last year. However, Notre Dame defeated Indiana in early season play and was one of three teams to perform this feat, but the Hoosiers finished strong, and their first five players are all back.
Louisville repeats on the ND schedule and has the same starting lineup of sharpshooters that plagued the Irish last season. Michigan State and Marquette have several veterans on their rosters, and Holy Cross, a traditional foe, is once again rated as a power in New England and a threat in intersectional play. Others on the schedule include Northwestern, Loyola, Bradley, NYU, Purdue, Butler, and DePaul.
Coach Johnny Jordan lost three regulars from last year’s squad, which compiled a 19-5 season record and gained the finals of the NCAA regionals at Chicago. Most important loss to the Irish was graduating captain and center Norb (Gootch) Lewinski, who was second in scoring last season with 359 points.
However, Dick Rosenthal, a 6’5” performer who led last year’s team in scoring with 392 points, has replaced Lewinski as captain and center. “Rosie” previously saw action at a forward position, but should do a creditable job at the center post. Joe Bertrand is the second of four returning monogram winners on the squad. The 6’3” playmaker will see duty at either forward or guard. Bertrand’s running mate at forward will probably be senior Bill Sullivan, who replaced the ailing Jim Gibbons in the starting five last year, and aided the Irish in many of their victories. Junior Stephens is the remaining veteran on
the squad, and will again be inserted at guard. Stephens, Rosenthal, and Bertrand, along with Lewinski, all went well above the 300 mark in scoring last season. .	.
Two very promising sophomores, who move up from the freshman squad, are John Fannon, a forward, and Bill Wei-
CAPT. ROSENTHAL, COACH JORDAN
Prepare For Season’s Opener
man, a guard. Both are bidding for starting berths and should see considerable action.
Other experienced players include seniors John Reynolds and Ed McGinn. Both saw action at guard last year, but may be switched if necessary.
Jordan Experimenting Two Squads
At the present time Coach Jordan is toying with two lineups. One finds Sullivan and Fannon at the forwards, Rosenthal at center, and Stephens and Bertrand at the guards. The other has Sullivan and Bertrand at the forwards, Rosenthal at center, and Weiman and Stephens at the guards.
Jordan also has uncovered five talented performers for his freshman squad and future varsity squads. These are Lee Ayotte from Alpena, Michigan, John Bedan from Jeffersonville, Indiana, Joseph Morelli from Albany, N. Y., Jude Petrie from Chicago, and Henry Luepke from St. Louis, Mo.
The 12-man squad still needs a lot of preparation before their first game, but hard work and experience should bring them into top shape for the season's start. Already they are highly rated by the experts and should spell trouble for any opposition they encounter.
November 6, 1953
27
by Bab Frolicher
III Harriers Humble Irish Runners, 18-39

Notre Dame’s cross country runners ran up against another stiff competitor on the home course last Saturday morning as the visiting Hoosier harriers from Indiana University easily came away with an 18-39 decision.
The Blue and Gold squad, after halting a losing streak dating back to 1951 by edging Marquette on the previous weekend, found this year’s crew of Hoosiers as strong on the four-mile course as the 1952 IU squad, which ranked sec- . ond nationally in the NCAA cross country competition.
Basketball Begins to Move In
Although Notre Dame just passed the half-way mark in their football schedule by crushing Navy last Saturday, 38-7, the Irish eagers are already pushing their way into the spotlight. Three key men from last year’s squad have graduated, but Coach Johnny Jordan was still greeted by a host of returning lettermen at the start of practice sessions.
The Irish will be out to equal and improve the very impressive 19-5 record of last season, the best of any Notre Dame cage team in the past six years. They also became the first Irish team to enter an NCAA tournament, losing to National Champ Indiana in the regional finals, 79-66.
The biggest loss to the Irish is Norb (Gootch) Lewinski, the smooth, hoop-shot artist. However, back are three of last year’s starting five who together combined to score over 900 points of Notre Dame’s 1748 point total, including the three NCAA tourney games. Captain Dick Rosenthal heads the Irish contingent, and is expected to fill in the now-vacated center post. Last season, as a forward,
“Rosie” was the quintet’s leading scorer, pushing 392 points through the hoops to break Notre Dame’s single season scoring mark of 367 set by Leroy Leslie in 1952. All-around team balance should prove to be a great asset in the stretch through the Jordanmen’s rough 22-game schedule.
Line Bright Spot on Both Offense and Defense
One of the outstanding aspects of the football squad in their first five games this season, has been the all-around play of the forward wall. To date the Irish defensive eleven has permitted their opponents only 935 yards total. They have also limited their foes to 487 yards rushing which is a total of only 97.4 yards per game. Up until last Saturday’s encounter with the Midshipmen, the Irish held their opponents to 305 yards passing which ranks them up among the country’s best. On the offense' the Irish have ground out a total of 1,735 yards for a respectable 350.6 yards a game.
Here We Go Again
There seems to be a remark going around in some paper that our midwestern neighbor, Michigan State, potentially has the power to be the number one football team in the country. If I remember logic correctly, a thing that is potential remains such until it has been put into actuality. Now it appears that the Spartans have pretty well kept their abundance of material enshrouded among the potentials. In few instances has Michigan State displayed the actuality of their squad. In direct contrast, Notre Dame has come from behind, in many instances, to win, proving that they have more than the mere potentialities of a champion. A further look at the teams both Notre Dame and Michigan State have played thus far shows that none of the Spartans’ opponents sports a winning record while' two of the Irish’s foes are still ranked in the top ten. -
Prediction of the Week
- After three straight home games, the Irish will invade unfamiliar stamping grounds at Franklin Field tomorrow afternoon, but will prove that they are as tough away as they are at home, grinding out a 27-6 win.
Zellers Sets Pace
Lowell Zellers paced his Indiana mates by speeding to a 20:09.7 winning time. The course record is 19:52. A close challenger most of the way was fellow Hoosier Jim Lambert, who fell behind in the final half mile and finished second in 20:26. Lambert took top honors in the Indiana state meet last season.
Jack Alexander, Notre Dame team captain, again led the Irish contenders. Alexander’s 20:45.1 time was good for third place.
Next on the ND squad’s agenda is the Indiana State Meet, held today in Indianapolis with Butler University playing host to some of the state’s top runners.
The statewide competition is conducted on two levels, with Notre Dame, Purdue and Indiana forming the “big three,” and ten of the state’s smaller colleges competing in a separate division. Gene Matthews, Purdue senior, is given the pre-meet nod as most likely to carry off top individual honors at Indianapolis.
PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS:
Baylor, 27; Texas, 21
Duke, 20; Navy, 13
Georgia Tech, 28; Clemson, 7
Minnesota, 34; Indiana, 14
Iowa, 14; Purdue, 7
Illinois, 21; Michigan, 17
Maryland, 35; Geo. Washington, 6
Ohio State, 21; Michigan State, 20
Oklahoma, 30; Missouri, 13
No. Carolina, 13; So. Carolina, 7
Wisconsin, 24; Northwestern, 21
Pittsburgh, 20; Virginia, 6
So. California, 7; Stanford, 0
SMU, 21; Texas A & M, 14
TCU, 26; Washington State, 7
California, 27; Washington, 14
Georgia, 16; Florida, 13
Penn State, 20; Fordham, 7
Army, 28; No. Carolina St., 12
Rice, 7; Arkansas, 6
28
The Scholastic
ND Opponents
(Continued from page 25) more Tony Branoff threw a long pass to end Bob Topp who scampered the rest of the way for the Wolverines. Baldacci’s kick missed for the third straight time and the score stood, 18-14. Although Baldacci plowed ovei* from the one to 4 climax a sixty-yard drive in the fourth quarter, it was anti-climactic.
North Carolina dropped their second contest, falling before favored Tennessee at Chapel Hill, 20-6. The Volunteers crammed three touchdowns into eleven minutes of the third quarter after a scoreless first half.
[ A Tarheel fumble on their own twenty-five set up the first and what proved to be the decisive score in that third period. Vol halfback Jim Wade passed to end Mack Franklin, lanky Tennessee captain who grabbed it on the four. Three plays latei* Wade scrambled over* ' from the one.
Tarheels Drop Second Straight
In the final period North Carolina scored when Connie Gravite bucked across from the one-yard line to finish a seventy-four yard, nine play advance which featured a thirty-one yard pass from quarterback Len Bullock to Gravite and Larry Parker’s twenty-yard jaunt around end.
Iowa played brilliantly for fifty two minutes holding Wisconsin to a second quarter twenty-three yard field goal by Bill Miller of the Badgers while the Hawkeyes themselves in the same quarter* capitalized on a thirty-six yard scoring pass from Jerry Reichow to Dusty Rice. The boys from Iowa City kept this 6-3 lead until late in the final period when Harland Carl grabbed a pass out of Iowa fullback Binky Breeder’s defending hands and completed the thirty-eight-yard scoring play with a ten-yard dash into the end zone. Miller’s kick made the final score, 10-6.
At Portland, Oregon, Southern California, the west coast’s last undefeated team, was upset by lightly regarded Oregon, 13-7. The Trojans could get only two substantial drives, both of seventy-five yards, underway against the inspired Webfoot forward wall.
The first was stalled on the five-yard stripe, but Aramis Dandoy swept around end to climax the second drive in the third quarter and tie the score at 7-7.
Southern Methodist played sloppily in the rain and kicked away a Southwest Conference game to Texas, losing 16-7.
Under the skillful direction of Charlie Brewer, Texas roared back from a 7-6 halftime deficit to win going away. Delano Womach scored on a four-yard blast in the second period for Texas and Duane Nutt passed to Jerry Norton for eight and the SMU score minutes later.
Three Regulars Tied For Scoring Honors
After Notre Dame’s first five games, three of the starting backfield are tied for scoring honors. Halfback Joe Heap’s two touchdowns in the Irish’s 38-7 trouncing of Navy sent him into a three-way tie with fullback Neil Worden and quarterback Ralph Gug-lielmi.
Guglielmi tallied his fifth TD when he snared a Middie pass and scampered down the sidelines for the score. One of Heap’s scores came on the pass from “Gug,” his fourth touchdown pass catch of the season.
For the second straight week, Heap continues to lead the regular backfield with a 5.4 yard average, picking up 27 yards in five carries. Worden remains close behind Heap, gaining 49 yards in 11 tries, good for a 4.9 average. Second-string fullback Tom McHugh led all of the Irish last week, going for 93 yards in 15 carries to boost his average to 5.1. His running established him as a reliable fullback replacement.
Foui* more of the Irish broke into the scoring column after last week’s • game. Fullback Tom McHugh, halfback Dick Keller and quarterback Tom Carey each scored a touchdown. Quarterback Don Schaefer’s try for the extra point split the posts for his one point.
Guglielmi still holds his lead in pass-

TOM McHUGH
Heads Onslaught Against Navy
ing with a blazing .519 average. “Gug” completed four of seven tosses for 78 yards and another TD. So far this season, Guglielmi has completed 28 of 54 for 425 yards and four touchdowns.
In team totals, the Irish garnered
1290 rushing and 463 yards passing for an overall 1753 yards. This is a 4J. average per carry. Notre Dame has also scored 153 points to their opponents’ 63.
RUSHING
	Times		
	Carried	Yds.	Avg.
Raich			5	34	6.8
Bigelow 	.			 1	6	6.0
Fitzgerald	25	141	5.6
Heap 			37	200	5.4
McHugh 			38	193	5.1
Worden			67	331	4.9
Washington			 16	76	4.8
Lattner	72	248	3.4
Rigali 			 3	9	3.0
Keller			 3	9	3.0
Carey			 12	25	2.1
Galardo			 1	1	1.0
Guglielmi			30	15	.5
PtV
30
30
30
SCORING TD PAT FG
Worden-----------------5	0	0
Heap 5	0	0
Guglielmi  5	0	0
Mavraides--------------0	15	1
Lattner 2	0	0
Hunter 10	0
Washington  10	0
McHugh 1	0	0
Keller----------------— 10	0
Carey 10	0
Schaefer---------------0	10
18 12
6 6
6 6
6 1
PUNTING
No. Yds. Avg.
Lattner---------------- 15	508	33.9
McHugh  ________________ 4	134	33.p
Gaffney--------•.------ 1	33	33.0
PASS RECEIVING No.
Caught Yds. TD
Heap----------------------- 11	203	4
Lattner----------------------8	111	0
Penza----------------------- 4	56	0
Matz-------------------------4	51	0
Shannon--------------------- 2	20	0
Washington-----------------  1	16	0
PASSING
	Att.	Comp.	Yds.	Avg.
Heap 			 3	9	19	.667
Guglielmi 			54	28	425	.519
Carey 			 4	2	19	.500
ND Hosts Regional Tryouts For Angston Championships
The Notre Dame varsity sailing team will play host to the regional eliminations for the Midwestern Fall Championship tomorrow. The championship which goes under the name of Timme Angston Memorial Regatta, will include tryouts from Toledo, Fenn College, Oberlin, Baldwin-Wallace, and Bowling Green.
Twelve races will be sailed in MJ.T. tech “dinks” at the Diamond Lake Yacht Club, Notre Dame’s home port. The two top teams will advance to the Timme Angston Memorial Regatta which is to be held in Chicago Thanksgiving weekend.
Skippers sailing for Notre Dame next Saturday will be Ed Rodgers, Tom Burke, Jim Rosenheimer, and Jack McMann.
The Irish freshman sailing team missed an opportunity to display its form last Saturday when the Midwestern Sailing Championships at Toledo were called off. Toledo University could not muster enough boats to facilitate the seven teams entered.
November 6, 1953
29
I
Till1 Four Horsemen Hide Again”
“Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again.” Unfolding a legendary combination known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death, four men with the movements of one are reliving the days of yesteryear, when Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden were immortalized by Grantland Rice.
Wild Horses
Today they are known as Guglielmi, Heap, Lattner and Worden, a furious band of horsemen who ride the range of Notre Dame Stadium like fearless outlaws. The reward is high for' these mighty horsemen, but those so far who have tried to cash in weren’t quick enough on the draw.
Last Saturday, the Horsemen, spurred on by the thoughts of their ailing coach, and the loyalty of the student body galloped over a fighting but outridden Navy team 38-7. A week before it was Georgia Tech caught in the stampede. Before that Pitt, Purdue and Oklahoma. Tomorrow it’s Pennsylvania, and before it’s all over the “fury brigade” will be immortalized also.
Each of the current horsemen, like their predecessors, is an expert rider in himself. As a unit they move in perfect cadence, blending each of their distinctly separate perfections into the sharpest fighting mold in the land.
“FOUR HORSEMEN” — 1953 VERSION Lattner, Guglielmi, Worden, and Heap
Perhaps the most improved rider of them all is quarterback Ralph Guglielmi. He leads the gang that has thus far accounted for 1617 yards in every statistical department and 102 points out of the team’s overall total of 153.
Following in Stuhldreher’s footsteps, Guglielmi can pass, block and tackle. His five interceptions for 47 yards and one touchdown should be enough proof of his previously unknown defensive prowess. Though “Gug" exploits his backfield rather than his passing game, “the Columbus Cannon” has completed 28 of 54 passes for 425 yards and four touchdowns.
Speed and Agility
Left halfback Heap, the smoothest rider of fury brigade, like his great predecessor, “Sleepy” Jim Crowley, is the fastest man in the riotous backfield. The Heaper’s chief forte seems to be pass receiving as he is Guglielmi’s No. 1 target for the second straight season. So far this year the brilliant halfback from the bayou has grabbed 11 passes for 203 yards and four touchdowns.
The parallel of the “wild horsemen” continues in the case of Notre Dame’s star-spangled right halfback Johnny Lattner. All who see him in action say he can do anything. All who play against him know he can. One Georgia Tech lineman was overheard saying, “that
Lattner, hardest man I’ve ever tried to tackle.” Closely resembling a giant Python, Lattner twists, turns, slides, swivels and wiggles his way through the line. Johnny-on-the-spot is the shiftiest horseman ... at times he can even ride side saddle if necessary.
The “Bull” Fights On
Last and most powerful of the wild horses is Neil Worden, Notre Dame’s acrobatic fullback, who runs more like a bull than a horse. “Death” is an appropriate nickname, for like Layden, Worden bolts from the line of scrimmage like greased lightning. His linecracking is renowned, but how many realize that Worden runs the ends like a halfback. Whatever the Irish three-year scoring mark may be, Worden, with a total of 23 touchdowns to date must be approaching it.
“Back in 1924, when the mighty “Four Horsemen” of Knute Rockne were steamrolling all who got in their way, the famous Army game of October 19th that year was the cause of one of the finest compliments any backfield has ever received. A scouting report sent to Coach McEwan of Army by Capt. Pat Mahoney who was sent to watch Notre Dame’s game the week before the Army affair, went something like this, “Now that Crowley, he’s like lightning. Better put two men on him! And that Layden, makes yardage every time; put two men on him! Then there is Miller, I don’t think I have to tell you that I advise putting two men on him! And Stuhldreher, the quarterback, is the most dangerous of them all. He can think! Have three men on him!”
Penn Scouts Wonder
Wonder what Pennsylvania’s scouts thought last weekend when they saw a backfield do everything any backfield has evei- done. Somebody in the pressbox remarked that they reminded him of the “Four Horsemen” . . . thus the origin of this article ... a tribute to a backfield that brings back memories of the original rough riders. '
Tomorrow, whether the November sky be gray, blue or full of snowballs, the Four Horsemen will mount and ride again. They’ll be riding for Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden; they’ll be riding for Notre Dame; but most of all they’ll be riding to win.	—J. Sand.
30
The Scholastic
Interhall Football
(Continued from Page 26)
Fullback Jerry Ryan and Tom Hawkins, left halfback, took split-T handoffs to ring up TD’s in alternate periods. The adverse weather conditions forced St. Ed’s to run for the extra points. Ryan added three PAT’s in four attempts. It left Coach Swede Metress’ Zahm squad with a 2-2 record for the season.
Farley, losers only to unbeaten St. Ed’s, gained a firmer grip on second place as it thrashed Cavanaugh, 20-0. The winners scored touchdowns in each
of the first three periods as they completely overwhelmed the hapless Cavanaugh team.
Quarterback Tom Edwards hit fullback Jim McCauley in the end zone with a twelve-yard pass for the victors’ initial score early in the game.
Cavanaugh battled on even terms with powerful Farley until halfback Marv Angelino skirted left end for 15 yards and the second tally. A lineman, guard Jack Casey, stole the scoring spotlight from the more heralded backs when he intercepted a Cavanaugh aerial and raced 40 yards for Farley’s third and final TD.
In the remaining contest in the Eastern loop, Off-Campus scored a win over B-P by a 8-0 margin. O-C scored only one TD and added a safety, while the Breen-Phillips squad could not put together any sustained drive.
Off-Campus scored their lone touchdown on a 22 yard end sweep midway in the first period. They capped their scoring in the third quarter when their line crashed through and spilled a B-P back in the end zone.
Morrissey gained a 1-0 victory over the now defunct Howard eleven. The win puts Morrissey only one point behind Alumni in the Western League race.
Will Penn give up Big Time Football?
Coach Munger retired “upstairs” because he thought Penn was overmatched. Athletic director Franny Murray was bounced because of the schedule. And Penn’s football future is still up in the air. What forces favor Big Time games? Who are against them? Is Penn likely to backtrack into the Ivy League? And will the Ivy teams take the Red and Blue back into the fold? In this week’s Post you’ll get the full picture—and an inside guess as to the likely outcome of the current trustees’ investigation. Be sure to read The Football Blues Hit Penn.	.
on sale today
The Saturdax Exening
POST
\o\ember 7.	; - / >
A CURTIS PUBLICATION
TOUGH, LONG-WEARING
PLASTIC SOLES
Extremely fast and durable...
Withstands great temperature changes
“Easiest in the xvorld to ski on,” says Hannes Schmid,* famous international star. "Spalding is leading the field in quality and workmanship.”
Other Spalding features: Patented interlocking edge construction with offset screw holes. Shock-absorbing tip and tail section. See the big 1954 Spalding Ski Parade at your favorite ski shop — Top-Flite, Continental, Air-Flite and many more in a complete range of prices.
’member Spalding advisory staff
SpaldinG
SETS THE PACE IN SKIING
"How to Care for Your Skis" contains helpful hints on skiing exercises, waxing instructions and ski etiquette. Address
Dept 23— A. G. SPALDING A BROS, INC, Chicopee, Mas*.
get your copy FREE
November 6, 1953
31

BOTTLED UHOtt AUTHOBLTT Of Th£ COCA-COLA COmBaht IB COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
One lesson nt Arthur Murray's is all you need to go dancing...
Arthur Murray believes, and has thousands of pupils to prove it, that everyone has a dormant ability to be a good dancer. And, his experts will bring out your hidden talents in just one lesson. So come into the studio now and see how quick and easy it is to learn to dance and be a sought-after partner.
COMEINfO'*'4"'-. MAI LESSON THIS MONTH ONLY
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing "Studios Coast to Coast”
120 E. Wayne St.	Call 2-3339 NOW!
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 21-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You’re always welcome at .. .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
ND Theotre to Produce Porter's 'Kiss Me, Kate*
Cole Porter’s Kiss Me, Kate will be the second production of the University Theatre, according to an announcement by Director John Tumpane. Dec. 1 through 6 will be the performance dates of the musical hit.
Tryouts for the acting, singing, and dancing parts were held last Tuesday and Wednesday. The cast is expected to be large, but not as large as the one for Brute Farce last year.
Kiss Me, Kate broke in on Broadway in 1948. Well over a thousand performances were staged before the play closed. Based on the book by Bella and Sam Spewack, the play is a musical version of Shakespeare’s Taming of the Shretv. The music and lyrics were written by Cole Porter.
Among the stars who held lead roles in the Broadway production were Alfred Drake, Ann Jeffreys, Harold Lang and Lisa Kirk.
Senate Designates Thursday As Date of Frosh Elections
The Student Senate has designated next Thursday the official date for the election of freshman class officers and hall presidents. Nominations opened last Monday, and will remain open until Sunday night. All nominations should be sent to 336 Badin Hall. Candidates may run either as a party or as independents.
Before the balloting starts the Student Senate will arrange to have all the candidates meet with Senate members of the hall councils in order to have their prospective duties outlined for them.
The class president will automatically become a member of the Student Senate, while the hall presidents, in addition to being presidents of their hall councils, will also be representatives to the Senate.
The preferential ballot system, which proved so successful in the upperclassman hall elections, will be used. Every candidate will be listed on the ballot. The student will then vote for each candidate in order of preference. A majority vote will thus be insured for the winning candidate.
Results of the elections will be revealed as soon after the polls close as is possible.	'
Advertising Agencies Plan Test for Seniors Friday
Seniors whose applications were accepted for the American Association of Advertising Agencies examination will
The Scholastic
32
take their tests next Friday, Nov. 13, in Room 202 of the Commerce Building.
The testing program of the A.A.A.A., held in more than 20 cities from coast to coast, primarily seek to “attract high calibre young people to advertising.”
The examination covers both aptitudes and practical knowledge in seven kinds of advertising work: copy writing, research, mechanical production, radio and television, media selection, layout and art, and plans and merchandising.
Also included will be an estimate of the testees’ selling aptitudes. Aptitude appraisals will be made by the Personnel Laboratory of New York, specialists in the testing of advertising personnel.
The results will be returned to each candidate. Besides serving as an estimate of abilities, the test results may be shown to employers as a concrete indication of the individual’s potentialities. If the candidate wishes, he may also authorize the American Association of Advertising Agencies to circulate his test scores among employers.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
DRRWTURBOW
XpPTOMKTRIST
— OPTICAL RBAMS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” — EYES EXAMINH) —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop, by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way
We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
Noted Publisher F. J. Sheed Talks Tuesday, Wednesday
Tuesday night Mr. Frank J. Sheed ■will deliver the first of his two lectures on the study of theology in Room 127, Nieuwland Science Hall, at 8 p. m. The subject ‘will be “The Importance of the Study of Theology for Catholic Laymen.” Admission will be by ticket only.
The following evening the subject will be “How to Study Theology.” This lecture, to be given at 8 p. m. in Washington Hall, is open to both students and faculty.
Mr. Sheed’s visit is being sponsored by the Department of Religion and the Committee on Self-Study of the College of Arts and Letters. These lectures are part of a series of religious talks to be given throughout the year.
Mr. Sheed, world famous as a lay theologian, was born in Australia. After graduating from the University of Sydney he went to England where he founded the international publishing house, Sheed & Ward.
In addition to his publishing activites Mr. Sheed has written several books: Map of Life, Communism and Man, Theology and Sanity, and Sidelights on the Catholic Revival. He is also a noted lecturer on Catholic doctrine, and during the past 25 years has addressed more than 3,000 indoor and street-corner meetings in England and America.
November 6, 1953
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics
Also for January graduates in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office
Ground Floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on NOVEMBER 9
33
■
was his name); he was the big newspaper man in the country. Then there was Louie Romano, the front man for the big push-cart business. The other two were Homer Charles, the big politician, and Robert Ellsworth, the local lawyer.
Now it was a couple of years back, when all these fellows were just out of college and full of fine ideas about how to fix up the poor old world. So they decided to form the LFTIOCALIG. They had a couple of meetings to get organized and then they were ready.
They finally got around to asking other people to join and they got things ready for the first meeting which was to be a big discussion on the best kind of culture.
They started off in the Moose Hall and Fob Bolicher did the speaking to get things going. He really got all wound up on how fine the newspaper business was, and how much it meant to America. Why, he said that if it weren’t for the newspapers the whole country would be a bunch of ignoramuses. He got to rolling right along then; he was all wrapped up in ems, and column-inches, and kinds of type.
Well, about that time, Louie Romano looked like he was getting a little restless, or itchy, or both. As soon as Fob was done, Louie jumped right up and started speaking. He said that he was sorry but he just couldn’t agree with Fob; as far as he could see it, the only thing that made any difference in this country was business. Yessir, good old buying and selling, commerce, trade, that was the thing.
He got pretty warmed up too, and first thing you know, he was quoting the New York stock exchange, and spouting out with such things as overhead, and capital gains, and debits and credits and all such stuff as that.
Now most of the people were just looking fuzzy at each other. They
by Gordon Bergquist
Well now, folks, I just got back from that beautiful land of the Tall Corn. Really was nice to sort of relax there out by the corn shocks in that fine warm sun. Sort of made me think about old times down along the Missouri. Just sitting there, I got to recalling all about the League for the Improvement of Culture and Life in General.
Now this was a real fine organization—made up of all the real bright fellows thereabouts. Course, there were about three or four that really were the bigshots of the whole she-bang. ’
There was Fob
Bolicher (they called him that ’cause it
knew what he was talking about; they just didn’t understand it. There were a couple of hands waving and the chairman picked out Homer Charles, the politician.
Everybody settled back. At least, Homer wasn’t going to talk about culture; he never did. (Some folks said he couldn’t). But he got up and right off said that only people who knew politics really had culture. He said that of course all his constituents really knew politics.
You could see that by the fact that they had voted for him in the last election. And he just knew that they were going to vote for him come November. Look at all he had done last year! He’d gotten the sidewalk paved in front of the saloon and had gotten a law passed that all mules in the county had to have a license. ’Course there weren’t any mules in the county, but it was still a good law. Pretty soon he got going on what he was going to do next year. He had big lists of real fine improvements and real fine laws to be passed. ’Long about this time, a couple of people in the back started to walk out quiet-like. He quick- wound up with a big statement that politics was a real culture and then sat down. He sure was a real politician.
After all the people woke up, they saw that Robert Ellsworth was up on the speaker’s stand. They quick shut up because he was a real smart fellow and didn’t do much speaking. When he did, though, folks really listened. ’Course, there were always a few that muttered “shyster” and “ambulance chaser” whenever he went by, but they weren’t too loud. ’Fraid they might get sued, I guess.
Anyhow, he started to speak real slow and fancy. He was just rolling along and all the folks were just sitting there bug-eyed. He said that he’d
heard all the other arguments and that really in his opinion if there was anything that was real culture it was Law. He stopped here for a big pause. Real impressive. He claimed as how Law ruled just about everything and that those things that it didn’t have control over, why, Law was going to get control. He left a space here for a big pause too. He got in gear then and started spouting out such things as “Prima Facie,” and “fictions in the law,” and “Habeas Corpus,” and “sine qua non.” He was just starting to hit his peak when he came out with “surrogate,” and “subpoena” and “torts.”
The people just sat open-mouthed. He wound up the whole thing with “Lex de mittibus non curat.” That really floored ’em. ’Course there weren’t too many that knew what he said but he sure said it fine!
Like I said, it’s a real fine organization. They have regular meetings every month now and have real cultural talks just as good as the first one. That first meeting was the only one I ever went to, though. It sort of seemed like I’d heard all that stuff before somewhere.
lire we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
YOU'LL LOVE THE FEEL OF THE CUSHION-BITE in the medico crest 535" ? A MEDICO V.F.Q-
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
i mmrHjri suittMrisintWt* JMa^KjKjLr.22,iirtaUttI
The Scholastic
2OOO
HOMELESS...LINES DOWN
urgent... repair quickly.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Gale winds ripped through Alabama and Georgia last spring, destroying 500 homes, leaving 2000 homeless, killing and injuring 382.
Thousands of telephones were out of order—hundreds of poles damaged and destroyed. Communications had to be restored quickly. They were! Here’s how:
1.	Engineering teams rushed to the stricken area. In hours, they determined material and men needed to restore service.
2.	Based on these reports, equipment—as far off as Chicago and New York—began rolling toward the area.
3.	Telephone crews arrived from as far away as Atlanta and Birmingham-engineering and accounting forces, construction, cable testing and repair teams.
4.	Red Cross, hospital and other essential installations were rushed.
5. The public was informed of progress by daily newspaper and radio releases.
Result: in 3 days, Columbus, Georgia—which suffered 10 million dollars property damage—had half its out-of-order telephones working and Long Distance service nearly normal. In another 3 days substantially all service had been restored.
Planning and co-ordination among many telephone people with a variety of skills made this quick recovery possible. It illustrates vividly the teamwork typical of Bell System men and women.
There’s room on this team for a wide range of college graduates— business and liberal arts, as well as engineering. Plan for your future by getting details now about job opportunities in the Bell System. Your Placement Officer has them.


SMOKERS BY THE THOUSANDS
^CHANGING TO CHESTERFIELD
the ONLYi/garette ever to g/'veyou...
USCETT I MEERS TOBACCO CO.
BEST FOR YOU
PROOF of LOW NICOTINE
HIGHEST QUALITY
The country’s six leading cigarette brands were analyzed — chemically—and Chesterfield was found law in nicotine—highest in quality.

Dontyou
A PROVEN RECORD with smokers
Again and again, over a full year and a half a group of Chesterfield smokers have been given thorough medical examinations...the doctor’s reports are a matter of record, “No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.” A responsible independent research laboratory supervises this continuing program.

CHESTERFIELD Ws
GLSIZE
uectTT i heers tobacco co. •
w