THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	AUGUST 20, 1943	NO. 7
Hiiue,:
•	Vaudeville Calls Talent
S Art Exhibit Sunday
•	Klinemen Make Two Trips
•	Irish End Summer Practice
COMMERCE MEN BECOME AUTHORITIES ON THE GLOBAL WAR j ;
BY BILL TALBOT AND HM CUNNINGHAM
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
landed, to turn the party into a shipshape affair.
DEAR MURPH:
Things ain’t exactly the old same they used to be when you was here and Rommel was in Africa and we two was in that there English class with each other together. Them were good old days before all these here altercations sat in, yes sir. We used to laugh then, but you got to commit yourself now; he sure learned us a mess of English in that class.	’
But as I was saying, to resume the main highway of thought, things ain’t exactly the same. All the pretty maids have left the halls, and we do all of our own cleaning now. I don’t think you’d be too exulting over tins new innovation. You can’t throw cigarette butts on the floor any more on account of because the guy what’s room captain that week is liable to get all kinds of frustrations over the whole thing and get all upset. You have to clean the floor real slick and dust everything. And I don’t envision you enjoying that, because even the books we don’t use we have to take out and dust the tops of them. And we have to clean all the dust out of the wash bowl to make its appearance seem like it’s been used in.
And they don’t overlook a thing. Like a guy downstairs confided to me yesterday that some of them. inspectors came around and couldn’t ascertain dirt nowhere. Well, this here guy was feeling all proud and everything until one of them inspectors stood on a chair to make sure there was no dirt on the ceiling. The inspector was satisfactory that there wasn’t, no dirt there, but- then he went and nibbed his hand over the chair he had erected himself upon and lo and behold — dirt! It’s positively profane what some people won’t do to dig up a little, dirt. -	.	.
And we do most of our own washing now too. We send one outfit a week to the. laundry and do the other three ourselves. It not. only assures the .longevity of our accoutrement but it also guarantees a clean garb.
. Well, goodbye now, as. I. got a date .with an egg and don’t want to break it.
Sincerely, " .	Augustus. .
BOTTOM OFAHE WEEK
Ain’t I never gonna have no thing, but shots in my arms?
TOP OF THE WEEK
In my Arms, In my Arm. . . .
MARCHING THRU CAROLINA
Back in the good old days when a civilian wasn’t a novelty there was a fraternity of characters on this campus known as the E.R.C. The members would squat on Sorin porch planning the soft army officerships that were just ahead: the public relations, air corps administrative, quartermaster, adjutant general’s office; finance department, and so on and on. The boys smoked their borrowed cigarettes and blew pleasant dreams.
Now comes a letter from one of the group’s illustrious members: Johnny Lynch, former Scholastic columnist, and head of the now extinct Sorin Evil Eye Club. Says Camp Croft’s J.L.: “So the marines at N.D. get a tough workout! At 5 in the morning we E.R.C.’s get up, make bunks, mop barracks, gobble chow, and begin a day’s work which ends at 4:30 with us all washed up and generally shot. Chow tries to revive us and then we have a free evening—unless they need grass planted, wood sawed, or a latrine cleaned. At 9 p.m. we clean rifles and then get to bed. The work-day includes drill, combat, and fun in the woods ■with the chiggers and wood-ticks. Of course the weather’s nice, hasn’t been over 123° since we arrived, nor under 102°. Not many nights we don’t get pulled out for a quick three-mile hike at two in the morning, and then there’s bayonet drill, and, . . .
J. Lynch adds he would like to spend a week with Capt. Finney’s boys, just for the rest.
MODERN MIND AT
WORK DEPT.
Down in history will go the deed of the redheaded freshman C.A.S. member . who arrived at the organization’s marine dance last Saturday night to find the situation well out of hand. The count was 50 girls and six leathernecks, which!
■ is too big a ratio even for marines. Our redheaded. hero grabbed a handy girl (and her seven passenger Buick) and roared into S. B. for re-enforcements. It -took six trips but enough marines were ~
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191S.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole____ Bill Carey..;_____ Dick Ames_________ James Schaeffer.. John Mattmiller. Charles Renaud... Rev. C. M. Carey..
....Managing Editor ........Sports Editor ........Campus Editor ........Admin. Editor ....Circulation .Staff Photographer ....Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week	fWm. Talbot and
........(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters......Bill Waddington
V-7 P* A- Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
' ....(D.	Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
V-12 ..................Joseph	Plante
N.R.O.T.C_____H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina
Marines .............  Lou	Riepenhoff
* Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Col' legiate Digest.. Represented for national advertising - by National: Advertising Service, Inc., 420 .. Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHO-- • LASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre, Dame. Address all . manuscript to the Editor, 305 . Sorin Hall or 121 .. . Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria -Building: Sunday through .Wednesday at 7:15 p. m. '	' " ;	".
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct; 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. .	.
VOL. 79
AUGUST 20, 1943
NO. 7
Vaudeville Show Issues Call for Talent;
To Be Presented on September 17th
In keeping with the projected summer campus program, the Knights of Columbus, in cooperation with the Scholastic, will present the finals of the “Vaudeville-On-Campus” on the evening of Sept. 17. The show, at which Marine Dave Curtin will preside as Master of Ceremonies, is scheduled for 8:00 pm.. Promoter of the event will be Grand Knight Bob Hallein; while John Stehlin and his Victory Band will provide the music for the evening. Washington Hall, long the scene of local thespian triumphs, will again play host to the topnotch talent of the campus. Substantial money prizes will be awarded to the winners.
A K. of C. Creation
Since the revival of the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville in 1940, the show has become the highlight of individual student prowess and entertainment. It
was in that year that Magician Jack Whalen, who is now listed as a casualty of the current World War, won first prize. In 1941 top honors were taken by Reggie Flynn and his swing quintet. Later came tenor Bill Scully; and last summer came Joe Flynn a ventriloquist of rare ability. Again this year, it is hoped, there will be surprises little short of amazing. Songs, skits, musical selections, recitations, and anything calculated to entertain and amuse, are in order for the show. It is hoped that the entire campus will take part in the affair, that it may be representative of University life. A small admission fee will be charged to defray expenses involved in production. Whatever remains will be turned over to a local charity.
Although the Campus Vaudeville is designed primarily as an occasion for
the entertainment and amusement of the campus student group, it likewise presents an opportunity for those with talent to perform before a large and appreciative audience. From these very shows , in the past, men on campus have received that recognition and encouragement needed to cultivate their various gifts—even to make the stage their life’s work. Furthermore, University theatricals are necessarily limited to a few actors. Vaudeville, on the other hand, is designed especially for those with particular talents that cannot be utilized in dramatic productions, but yet are deserving of prominence in the field of entertainment.
It is to be hoped that every hall on campus will ferret. out the acts that should find their way; to Washington Hall. There will be tryouts during the week previous to the finals. A group of competent judges will insure the best acts for the audience that invariably packs Washington Hall for this event.
Vaudeville Drama of a Former Year
Distinguished Artists Visit Washington Hall
BY PAUL SMITH
Tuesday evening Washington Hall played host to one of the Central West’s most distinguished group of players, a trio composed of John Weicher, the concertmaster of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra; Dudley Powers, the principal cellist of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra; and Rudolph Reuter, one of the country’s most noted pianists.
There is no question that these men are artists in the foremost sense of the word. Their chamber music recital left nothing to be desired except, perhaps, a repeat performance.
Mr. Weicher’s violin solos showed he’ has a style of perfected tonal qualities, and his Spanish Serenades attested to this outstanding talent.	- ;
Not to be outdone, Mr. Powers'* and Mr. Reuter played such spirited and beautiful pieces .that the faculty, stur dents, and religious clapped" enthusiastically for encores.	’ ' /	. .
Campus News
stories that have come out of the war. Bucci, who quit his job after Pearl Harbor to join the Marines, was a member of the first Marine Raiding battalion to be trained in this country.
Gossipers Quote Odds on
Unfilled Rector's Post
They’re at the post. They’re off! For the past few weeks the St. Ed’s A. C. Rectorial Derby has been a wide open race, following the announcement that Father Leo Gorman was vacating his post in favor of Holy Cross Seminary. Every day brought a new rumor as to who was to be the new steward to keep the St. Eds boys in check. Speculation and rumor are, as usual, rife.
Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C.
Earliest entries in the winter book had Father George L. Holderith, golf coach and rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, as possessing a remarkable preference. For a thne Father Holderith was quoted at 5-3, to the intense dismay of the St. Eds’ bookmakers. Latest developments have it that he is content to remain in Breezy-P with the well-behaved Brothers, minus fire hoses and coke bottles.
Father James McDonald enjoyed a brief flurry of backing until the word got around that he preferred remaining in his palatial second floor Breen-Phillips suite for the winter. St. Ed’s, one may recall, is not palatial at all.
Quoted at 10 to 1 was Father Garvin, third floor prefect of St. Eds. “De boys” knew that Father Garvin was accustomed to the unusual St. Ed’s atmosphere and flavor. He deserved his backing undoubtedly. Recently, however, Father Garvin’s name has not been mentioned as one of the favorites. .
For a short time Father J. J. Burke, C.S.C. entered the race as a possible prospect but was immediately ruled off the" track for life by the St. Ed’s Jockey Commission as having had too much experience and sure to be a winner if allowed to participate.
4
The most recent entry was that of Father Kelly, lately of Lyons and Cavanaugh Halls. Father Kelly, of the furred Kellys, became an overnight favorite. His adherents filled St. Ed’s and have forced the odds down to 6-5. At the present he appears to be the sure winner. It seems doubtful that the matter is a contest any longer.
Yet, the field includes such popular campus figures as Father Maloughney, Zahm rector, Father Forrestal, and Father Charles M. Carey, faculty adviser to the Scholastic and Prefect of R. 0. T. C.-infested Walsh Hall. Stable dope gives the field little chance unless the weather is suitable. As a prominent faculty member puts it, “There will be a winner Monday morning, weather permitting.”
The prizes for the race consist of: Misery and grief added; one green banana; and two fresh mystery balls. However, for latest trends of thought, public opinion and downright mullarkey, consult any inmate of the St. Ed’s A.C. He may not possess authority—but he will have words a plenty for any ears willing to listen to him.
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
Notre Dame’s service flag now displays 58 gold stars—an additional two— as a result of the news that two more alumni have died in the service. No details are available on the death of either Technical Sergeant John W. Roach, ’38, who died in the fighting in North Africa, or of Bill Higgins, who was killed in an explosion in this country. Sergeant Roach was the only son of John W. Roach, Sr., ’08, of Muscatine, Iowa.
The deeds of Corp. Joe Bucci, ’35, former assistant editor of the Scholastic, make one of the most thrilling
<£♦
❖ ❖ ❖ C. A. S.'s ninth dance for V-12 4 ❖ men will be held tomorrow night ❖ 4* in St. Pat's hall. 310 S. Scott street. ❖ ❖	Admission is	22c	plus	tax.	Host-	❖
❖	esses and refreshments	will	be	❖
❖	provided.	♦
❖	❖
Corp. Bucci was one of the gallant “expendables” on Guadalcanal; by all rights he should be a dead man, so often has he narrowly escaped death. He participated in the raids on Savo and Florida Islands, in the course of which he and his men lived 14 days on only two
days rations. The corporal found that the Japs were tough and fanatical; in his own words, “They don’t mind dying if they can take a few Marines along with them.” After taking part in the raid on Tasimboko, he contracted malaria. Later he was wounded in the Battle of Bloody Ridge.
At the Battle of Matanikau River he fought so bravely that Admiral Halsey recommended him for the Silver Star. His feats in that battle make almost a legendary tale. He and five other men were left behind as expendables to hold up the Japs as our men withdrew from dangerous positions. These six men faced the entire Japanese attacking force. All night they fought with hand grenades and machine guns. The next morning, all but blown to bits, they were rescued. Around them lay over 200 dead Japs.
Lt. Edward Tully, ’28, of the Merchant Marine has traveled over 100,000 sub-infested miles, and has had two ships sunk from under him. He wears a campaign ribbon for every American theatre of operations in the world. In one trip he experienced 156 air raids in 70 days, eight of which were direct bomb attacks on his ship.
His ship was the last to carry rubber out of French Indo-China, chased by the Japs out of the Philippines. At Murmansk, Russia, his ship, loaded with 400 tons of T.N.T., underwent a bombing that, if successful, could have wiped the whole town off the map. Among his other ports of call have been Iceland, Ireland, Madagascar, Aden, Casablanca, Capetown, Sydney, Suez, and Singapore.
People
On The Campus
BY BOB MORAN
BILL LAWLESS
One of the most outstanding men on the campus is Bill Lawless, president of the Wranglers. Bill was born in Buffalo, New York, in 1922. He played football at Canisius Prep, in that city, and made All-Prep for two years. He was prominent in debating circles, participating in the finale of the Buffalo American Legion oratorical contest in 1939.
Bill entered the university in 1940, and in his sophomore year received an appointment to Annapolis. He would have gone there at the end of that year, so he joined the ranks of the N.R.O.T.C. in order to prepare himself more thoroughly. However, he declined the appointment in favor- of remaining at Notre Dame.
While a junior he was elected vicepresident of the Wranglers. One of the foremost orators on the campus, Bill, together with Jim O’Dea of Lowell, Mass., ran undefeated last year in a debating team representing the university against other colleges. They participated in 12 debates against outstanding midwestern and eastern colleges. Bill’s roommate, John Lawler, is also a law student. The similarity of names causes much confusion.
One of the highlights of Bill’s life was the canoe trip in Canada he took a few summers ago. While passing through Ontario he became acquainted with a man later arrested by the Royal Canadian Police as a thief. Here was a situation in which Bill’s speaking ability really stood him in good stead.
At present Bill, whose chief gripe is Brother Meinrad’s bookstore service, writes for the Notre Dame Lawyer, and will be editor of this publication next semester.
This event-packed career will end soon when Lawless will graduate from Notre Dame with an L.L.B. and the uniform of an ensign. After the war he plans to enter the Harvard Law School and strive to obtain the coveted J.D. degree.
WILL PUHR
After having seriously pondered over the thought of becoming an archeologist in his greener years, Will Puhr, president of the Bookmen, has finally dwindled down to the more practical idea of
taking up law. He will vagabond about the globe for a few years after receiving his law degree.
Born in Neenah, Wisconsin, in 1921, Will now hails from Sheboygan. He came to Notre Dame in September, 1941, a year after graduating from North High school. There he debated and played football, and was advertising manager for the “Urbanite.”
Now a second semester Junior, enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, he resides up on the third floor of antiquated and traditional Sorin Hall, where he reads his history books. Will is one of the outstanding history students on the campus.
As president of the Bookmen, Puhr leads the bi-weekly discussions of literature, politics, and other fields of current interest. He has instituted the idea of a semester- banquet, rather than one annually, as a result of the present yearround system.
He is also a member of the Wranglers—one of the few in recent times to gain admission on the first trial.
Puhr intends to leave his history and his clubs in a few weeks to enter the United States Merchant Marine. He expects to be stationed at the training school at Sheepshead Bay, Long Island, N. Y., before spanning the Atlantic. After the war, however, he intends to return to Notre Dame.
Stehlin and Band to Rock Service Center
BY LARRY CARDEN
Saturday, August 21, the newest musical edition to stem from the University
go to press, with
of Notre Dame will
show dedicated to the this area.
volume number one being sold from the band stand of the Service Men’s Center. John Stehlin will introduce his crew of music makers to the public in a huge Service Men of
Quantity as well as quality will be in
evidence when the band takes over, for included in the roster are the names of 18 musicians and a girl vocalist. With six saxes, eight brass, and four rhythm, this is one of the largest bands which has ever emanated from Notre Dame. Included in the line up are: Norm Haas-er, John Olive, Johnny Boyle, Sheldon Toomer, Bob O’Toole, and John Stehlin on the saxes; Bill Binet, Dick Pedrati, Bob . Gruenfelter, Ray Kopituk and Al Straub on trumpets; Roy Lang, Irving Carr, Bob Oster on the trombones; Tom Butler, drums; Howard Homing, bass; Arthur Murray, guitar; John Clarke, piano; Lenore, vocalist.
The program will begin at nine sharp, and service men are advised to come early, as the prevailing fire regulations for South Bend and vicinity absolutely forbid any number in excess of the stipulated 4,000 couples. Arrangements are being made to supply the street crowd with music via a ublic address system mounted on top of the Palace theater. First aid stations will be situated at the north and the south ends of the hall. It has been requested that all dancing proceed in a clock-wise direction, to facilitate the removal of any knocked out cats. Little or no room has been provided for falling bodies and so something of this sort will be necessary.
Marines at Captain's Funeral
Eighteen privates of the Marine Detachment and two members of the ship’s company served as pallbearers and escorts at the funeral of Capt. Franklin D. Marsh, USMC, recently. Capt. Marsh, a native of South Bend, died in Washington of a heart attack.
The detail, headed by Marine Gunner Stephen Banashek and Gunnery Sergeant McManus, included Pvts. R. N. Curley, W. T. Eggbeer, A. H. Abshire, W. M. Busch, B. W. Marcus, R. L. Sko-vegard, E. H. Anderson, R. G Shilling, J. J. Garvin, C. A. Fowler, R. H. Mam-ple, F. P. Sonnenberg, R. E. Schaffer, J. A. March, M. D. Drummond, I. R. Leonberger, C. D.- Danielson and V. A. Robinson.
Receive Religious Habit
Thirty-five seminarians and eight Brothers received the habit of. the Congregation of Holy Cross last Sunday morning, August 15, at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., with Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., assistant provincial, presiding.
Temporary and perpetual religious vows were taken by 31 seminarians and 45 Brothers at services Monday, morning and afternoon.	.
CLUBS
Dick Borgess Gives Paper at Forum
The Commerce Forum held its second meeting of the current semester on Wednesday evening, August 18.
Professor E. D. Smith
Chairman Dick Borgess presented an instructive and interesting talk on “Railroads During the War and Post-war Period.” At the conclusion of his address Mr. Borgess was bombarded with questions, and a lively discussion followed.
Joe O’Keefe, Forum vice-chairman, presided over the short business session which preceded the chairman’s presentation. Educational and social plans for the near future were considered.
The special faculty guest who participated in the Forum discussion was Professor Wesley C. Bender, head of the department of business administration.
Professor Edmund D. Smith is faculty advisor for the group. In addition to Chairman Borgess and Vice-Chairman O’Keefe, the other officers are: Joe Mur-nane, . secretary; John Toole, program director; Frank Schafer and Yale Davis, directors.
Science Movies Shown
At A. I. E. E. Meeting
A large number of students attended the third American Institute of Electrical Engineers meeting of this semester, and after a short discussion on plans for an outing to be held in the near future, refreshments were served.
When the business of the meeting was completed, two movies were presented, both of which were furnished by the General Electric Company. The first film explained in detail the new radio discovery known as “frequency modulation” and stressed both its theory and application. The second film showed the actual making of the Company’s products, emphasizing the extensive research which goes into every new development.
The next meeting will be held on Wednesday, August 25 at 8 p.m. in room 212 of the Engineering Building. The guest
Professor J. A. Northcott
speaker will be Mr. Ray Robinson, assistant chief engineer of the Niles Power Plant. He will speak on “Rate Adjustments” and will conduct a discussion at the conclusion of his talk.
Incoming Freshmen are urged to join this club, which is a student branch of the National A-I-E-E. For more information regarding the club anyone who is interested should contact Mr. J. A. Northcott, the faculty advisor, or any of the following student officers; Chairman Walter Brehmer, Vice-Chairman Marcel Aucremanne, Secretary Robert Martina, Treasurer George Charters.
Dr. Menger Contributes
To Mathematics Publication
Karl Menger, professor of mathematics at Notre Dame, is hailed as one of the outstanding contributors to Practical Mathematics, a periodical, in the latest issue of the magazine.
Dr. Karl Menger
Dr. Menger, states the publication, is the only representative contributor from the old world. Born in Vienna, Austria, he received his early and advanced education in that city, earning the degree
❖	NOTICE!	❖
❖	The Barber Shop will close at ❖
•	I* noon on Saturdays starting August ❖ ❖ 21 to October 1.
& 4^ «$»
of Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Vienna in 1924. He has taught, besides at Notre Dame, at the University of Amsterdam, Holland, at the University of Vienna and as a visiting lecturer at Harvard, Rice Institute, and at the University of California.
Dr. Menger has been a prolific contributor to mathematical journals both in this country and abroad. The titles of some of his better" known treatises have been: “Theory of Dimension and of Curves,” “Metric Geometry and Applications of Various Branches of Mathematics,” “Algebra of Geometry,” “Foundations of Mathematics,” and “Mathematical Theory of Human Relations.”
SERVICE CENTER
More than 650 service men were served cold dinners at the Service Center, through the Red Cross Canteen last Saturday at 6 p. m. During the whole day men milled around the Center finding in it the entertainment and rest which their military week denies them.
Sunday Jimmie McPhee supplied the melody, and together with the large chocolate cake which was donated by a mother in celebration of her son’s twenty-fifth birthday (he’s in North Africa), the afternoon was a gay one.
Tomorrow the V-7 Band will play, with John Stehlin’s Band, the former Cavaliers, taking over the evening dance session. Hostesses will be supplied for both dances on Saturday, though it is quite all right to bring dates. Sunday, from 2 to 4:30, Miss Pat Myers and The Minute Men will do their bit in replacing the juke box.
The Center announces that in the near future it will have worked out its new schedule of dances for September. Meanwhile it adds another service to its already long list by supplying service men with addresses of rooms for relatives who are coming down to stay for the graduation exercises next month. Since the housing problem is so acute here in South Bend, the Center thinks that it will save the services both time and energy by having this list of accepted homes and rooms ready for those requesting it.
The Center Map reveals some interesting facts, namely that every state, save one, is represented, and that guests hail from as far away as the Philippines, Cuba, the Panama Canal Zone, and Canada.
In about a week or so the Music Room will be ready for use. It is on the inactive list for the present because of a new coat of paint and the installing of general fixtures, all of which will be finished within a week.
6
"Hold Everything" Gives Trainees Hilarious Evening
Before an enthusiastic audience of
marine and naval trainees, U.S.O. Camp Shows presented a first-rate musical re
view “Hold Everything,” in the Navy Drill Hall last Friday night, August 13.
Packed with talent, the show featured the act
of Billy Blake, master of ceremonies and trumpeter extraordinary. Not only was Blake a competent M. C., but his skilled horn impressions were the hit of the show. Among them were Henry Armstrong’s “Basin Street Blues” and Harry James’ “Chiri Biri Bin,” as also a successful imitation of Glen Gray’s Casa Loma trombone.
Paul Lowell, a fine juggling comedian, provided one of the show’s better acts with his skillful and amusing balancing feats. The most popular of these was the routine in which he kicked a saucer in the air, caught it on his head, and then kicked a cup and a spoon on it.
Demonstrating -her versatility, Beverly Page, contralto songstress, scored hits with her rendition of such varied tunes as “Mr. Five by Five” and “As Time Goes By.” The Three Rays, acrobatic dancing comedians, and the Harriet Hale girls, six pretty dancers, rounded out “Hold Everything.”
Music for the show was expertly provided by the Navy Orchestra.
Grad Writes "Draftie";
New "Tribune" Comic Strip
“Draftie,” a popular comic-strip, began this week in the South Bend Tribune. Paul Fogarty, a grad in ’17, writes the script.
Depicting the experiences of an inductee in the army, the column provides many a laugh over the antics of a typical American boy and his friend from Brooklyn who do their best to win the war single-handedly.
The author was an instructor at Culver Military Academy following his graduation from Notre Dame, and then took up song writing. He has contributed to magazines and newspapers. The idea for “Draftie” came from Fogarty’s World War I experiences, but he did not begin writing the strip until he had spent some time in touring army camps and studying soldiers and camp life.
Glee Club to Sing Tonight in Front of Main Building
After continuous practice and careful planning, the Glee Club is ready to present its first concert program of the summer semester. The club will sing outdoors, from the steps of the Main Building. Tonight’s concert will begin at 7:15. In case of rain the concert will be held in Washington Hall.
Director Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, has taken care in choosing the selections so that the presentation will be entertaining to the widely varied tastes of the audience. Among the selections will be “The Lost Chord,” “Why Don’t You Try,” “Ho, Jolly Jenkins,” “Anchors Aweigh,” and of course “The Victory March,” along with other marches and service songs.
During the intermission, four boys have gotten a quartet together which will present the old Barber Shop songs. This quartet will consist of Gene Pe-chulis, Baltimore, Md.; Nolan Sheehan, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Tom Bremer, Cleveland, Ohio; and Bob O’Toole, Chicago, Illinois.
Galleries Tour and Painting Demonstration Sunday
This Sunday afternoon the University will present the fifth in its series of cultural entertainments for civilian students and naval and marine trainees.
Bev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C.
At two o’clock Mr. Paul Byrne will conduct a tour of the University’s Art Galleries, with an emphasis to be placed on the Library’s collection of rare books.
At four o’clock in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial Rev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C., will give a demonstration of portrait painting. He will choose a subject from the audience and illustrate through a portrait of him the principle steps which are necessary for a good work of this type. Everyone has seen paintings of this kind, and this is a fine opportunity to see just what goes into the creation of one of them.
The Notre Dame Art Galleries rank
among the most prominent and extensive of their kind in the Middle West. . The basis of the collection is a fine group of paintings given to the University by the late Charles A. Wightman. Among the outstanding pieces are canvasses by -Van Dyke, Reni, Veronese, in addition to an excellent group of primitives.
In connection with the tour through the Art Galleries, which are located on the third floor of the library, a collection of “War Posters Today” will be shown. These posters are a representative group of war propaganda from all over the world, including some from Russia, China, England, Canada^ Spain and the United States. The exhibition is devised to show not only the comparison between the work from the different countries, but also that which exists between the various technical media employed.
Middies Girt for Final Lap
With only a few weeks remaining in the training program V-7’s are now taking physical exams for submarines and P-T boats, and are gathering in various tailor shops all over South Bend for that final fitting. Already insurance programs have been explained to us and our class schedule clearly points to Sept. 22 and graduation. Chicago was overcrowded last week-end by the many Midshipmen who took advantage of their extra leave and toured to the Windy City to forget all about exams and to get ready for the final lap.__the Notre Dame golf course was one of the most popular spots on the Campus last week as many Middies tried to get in nine holes before evening meal formation.... six weeks exams were as expected plenty rough, . but there were a few very pleasant surprises. The Seamanship Dept, came through with a really fair exam, much to the surprise of every Midshipman who had spent countless hours memorizing every footnote from assignment One to Thirty-two._____•
However the biggest blow came when the D.C. department pulled a real stinger out of the bag and let the poor V-7’s sweat for two hours over indescribable- -problems from Plate II.... many Midshipmen haven’t recovered as yet and the Restricted Pro list is expected to start from “A” and run straight through “Z”	.
with few exceptions.... “Field Day” resuited in making the old billets fairly . sparkle, biggest disappointment came when the inspecting parties merely \ glanced into the.rejuvenated rooms.... . . Monday morning found the Midshipmen rested from a strenuous week and ready . to take this next four weeks in nothing. * flat- '	-
The MARINES
By Pvt. Lou Riepenhoff
There’s nothing makes a Marine more angry than to have another Marine read his mail, (unless, perhaps, to have a sailor read it) especially when the contents are akin to the following: “My Dearest Danny Boy,
“I just know that you’ll be a General soon. There’s simply no stopping a man of your ability, courage, and determination. I could hardly believe it when I heard you had been “awarded” more demerits than any man in your company. Sally is simply green with envy for her Bob doesn’t have a single one yet. I’m so proud of you.
“Tell me, just what must one do to be awarded demerits — save someone’s life or capture a saboteur or the like. If so you must be very careful dear. All the demerits in the world couldn’t replace my darling Danny Boy. Of course it would be a great honor to show them about and tell people my Danny Boy had earned them in the line of duty, but I just can’t picture myself spending the rest of my life fondling a sacred scrapbook of demerits when, had you not been so unselfish and enthusiastic in your devotion to your country, I could be spending it fondling you instead. So please take care, dear, in working for those demerits. And don’t try to get them all. It think it only fair that you allow the other boys to get a few too.
After all this isn’t a one man war and if yon are “awarded” all the demerits the other fellow might become jealous. And people on the outside might start talking too. You know how some people are. They just can’t stand to see a man get ahead in the world, even when their and their country’s security is at stake.
‘‘Danny dear, what do demerits look like? Do you pin them on your chest? If so I don’t see how. even your exceptionally. large chest can hold all. you have earned, in spite of the fact. that those eight hour a day calisthenic sessions you
B
spoke of must have at least doubled its size.
“Or perhaps they come in the form of a scroll like citations. In which case the walls of your room must be pretty well papered by this time.
. “Well would you listen to me popping the questions at you? And after you have made it quite explicit that demerits were military secrets and- therefore you could not tell me any more than that you were “awarded” quite a number of them. Please forgive me, Mati Hari that I be.
Yours for more demerits, Mary
* *
And can you blame poor Demerit Dan for getting angry? What if it had been a sailor? Needless to say his mail is now being sent in care of general delivery.
La Raza Plans Full Program;
Bob Romana President
In its first meeting of this semester, La Raza Club made many tentative plans for this semester’s activities. It formed three committees which are to take care of intellectual, social and physical programs. The intellectual connnit-tee will see to it that guest speakers are invited to address the club; the social committee will plan banquets, a downtown dinner, and a picnic to Lake Michigan; the physical committee is in charge of organizing club teams to represent the Latin American students in the field of sports.
At the first meeting, plans were discussed for inviting a guest speaker to talk to the club and to the regular student body on the Sinarquista Movement in Mexico. After much deliberation, and discussion, the club finally decided against having any political or religious controversy by voting, against such an invitation. Father Cunningham, the faculty advisor, was present at this meeting.
Robert Romana, of Mexico, was elected president; Eduardo Ochoa, of Mexico, was voted vice-president; Lorenzo Roma gosa,. of Panama, came out treasurer. Always dependable, “Bitzy” Repilado, was .maintained as secretary, having served in that capacity in last semester’s group.
Capt. Finney Speaks
Capt. John Finney, U.S.M.C.R.. commanding officer of Notre Dame’s Marine detachment, gave a welcoming address to members of the Indiana Marine Corps League at the. state convention in South Bend last Sunday.
Knights and Ladies Dance to "Cavaliers"; Ball a Success
To the smooth strains of the Cavalier’s one hundred knights and ladies slipped and swayed on the Indiana dance floor last Saturday night.
Chairman Tom Halligan arranged the affair in cabaret style, which was a great improvement over the former open floor method. However, Big Tom let one of his assistants run wild with a can of wax; and the lack of broken bones can only be credited to the sense of balance for which N. D. men have long been noted.
Great splashes of color were added by the red, white, green and checkered for-mals of the local and imported belles, who managed quite easily to take the minds of a good many civilians, seamen, and marines off the study routine for three hours.
The sweet and jive tunes of the 13 Cavaliers were a welcome change from the “hep, two, three, fours” of deep chested chiefs and sergeants, and the boys were all feeling pretty good with a girl in their arms and one o’clock permissions in their, pockets.
Stellar attraction of the evening was a slim, husky-voiced girl vocalist who gave out the lyrics of the latest sweet music, in a very sweet way. Adding to the color were .the frequent flashes of the cameramen, and the sweeping drape decorations of the club.
K. C. Grand Knight reported the event was a success, and heartening enough for him and his many efficient committees to think of planning another for sometime in the future.
Child Born to the Leahys
To Coach and Mrs. Frank Leahy was born a six pound, five and one half ounce baby boy on August 16 at three o’clock at St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, Ind, A redhead, the new arrival was the fourth child for the Leahy’s who now count in the family circle two boys and two girls.
Notre Dame Sports
Newcomers Spark Irish Nine; Small Nucleus of Irish Regulars Left From Last Spring
BY ALEX BISBEE
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball nine has been doing a great job this summer. De. spite the fact that he has had much un-«familiar material to work with, the diamond mentor has whipped into shape a strong team. To a small nucleus of experienced men from last spring’s varsity, he has added the talent of top-notch ball-players from all over the country, who are enrolled in the college service training programs.
Catcher Tom Sheehan, one of these returning veterans, is the team’s leading hitter and clean-up man. Tom, a Navy V-12 seaman, has received more than one offer from the major leagues, which, of course, he has had to turn down.
Third bagger Jim Carlin, co-captain of last spring’s team, and shortstop Bob Klein, a fine fielder, have also had experience with Coach Kline. Second-baseman Tom Carlin, Jim’s brother, and Angelo Bertelli, center- fielder, are likewise former Notre Dame players. These men form the seasoned backbone of the present Irish nine, and to this foundation has been added the new Navy and Marine material.
Hurler Bill Martin is an old Notre Dame man but a newcomer to college baseball. Besides his pre-med work last spring, Bill found time to work out for the Bengal Bouts, annual intramural boxing tournament, and fought his way to the 175-pound championship. While playing with his high school ball club, Sailor Bill was selected for, all-state honors.	.	.	'	-
Then there are mound men Joe Zie-minski, Harry Sortal, and -Whiz Kid Andy Phillip, all Marines. Andy, the team’s best pitcher, is another boy who has recently received big league offers.
Varsity catcher for Indiana University last spring, Marine Jerry Rayl will be in there behind the plate when Sheehan is resting. There’s plenty of reserve material in this department. .
All the way from St. Mary’s in sunny California comes Marvin. Kranda, heavyhitting southpaw first baseman. Before he was called to active duty with the Marines, Marv played pro ball last spring for Scranton, Pa., in the Eastern League. Quentin Mason, Marine reservist from St. Thomas College in St. Paul,
Minn., is the regular second bagger. Sharing duties on the third sack with. Jim Carlin is Ken Manarak from Great Lakes Naval Training Station near Chicago.
In left field is Seaman George Ellsper-mann from St. Joseph College in the Hoosier state. Last year, a fleet footed halfback on the gridiron, George was. the leading football scorer in the Indiana State Conference.
Another Golden Stater from California, Marine Private Len Scarpelli of Santa Clara, can really get under the high flies in center field. The team’s fastest runner, Len is now out for football. In right field we have another Marine and a heavy hitter, Leftie Jack Mayo, from St. Louis University.
The schedule for the remainder of the season is as follows:
August 21: Calumet All-Stars at Hammond, Ind.	.	_
August 22: Freeman Field at Notre Dame.
August 28: Bunker Hill Naval Station at Notre Dame.
August 29: Great Lakes at Notre Dame.
Sept. 4: Glenview Naval Station at Glenview.
Klinemen Rout Custer M.P.'s
After dropping their first game of the season to a strong Michigan City nine, the Notre Dame baseball team “hit the road” for the third time this season, and captured their fourth victory at the expense of the Camp Custer MJPJs in Battle Creek, Michigan. It was a slugging contest with 16 of the 21 runs crossing the plate in the first four innings. The final score was Notre Dame 12 and Fort Custer 9. The 15 hit attack of the Irish was again led by Marv Kranda. who sandwiched four hits between a strikeout and pop-up. The game featured many long blows including a brace. of home runs and triples. Both round trippers were poled by the home-team, while Sheehan and Maratak slammed the triples. Sent out after his first victory of the season, Joe Zieminski, though in plenty of hot water in the early frames, held the soldiers to two runs in the last six innings. Modica started for the losers but left in favor of Evans in the fourth inning. From then on it turned into a pitching duel with the Irish coming out on top.	, .
The score by innings.	;
Notre Dame ....10 5 312 0 0 0—-12 15/1,- . Custer ____ 3040010 01— 9 13 5 ~ '
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Bill Waddington
Indiana’s manpower shortage is really authentic, for Coach Bo McMillan has come forth with an appeal which will render him the services of a manager for the coming foothall season . . .
There’s been a great variety of numbers in turnouts foi* summer sessions in the Big Nine . . . Purdue leads with 161, bolstered by Joe de Fil-lippo, Fordham center, guard Alex Ag-ase of Illinois, and tackle John Genis of
Illinois, plus seven Missouri squad members. . . • The outlook for the Boilermakers is bright if there’s truth in numbers. . . Michigan follows with 125, having acquired both Wisconsin and Minnesota strength of last season plus a goodly number of their own returning stalwarts. . . The Wildcats from Evanston counted 107 noses with Herman Frickey of the Gophers, and Henry Rie-chel of Nebraska being added to regular Otto Graham. . . Great reserve strength . . . Coach Harry Stuhldreher saw 70 men in uniform, but none of them Navy or Marine trainees, having lost 25 to the same branches. . . Looks like a start from scratch. . . The Golden Gophers had some of the gold trimmed from their roster with the Navy and Marines subscribing to most of it . . . Bill Gar-naas is the only true Minnesota back returning, but there’s Bob Dean of Indiana. . . Iowa’s figure of 38 finds practically all freshmen. . . Something new will be definitely added there . . . The Buckeyes also attained the 38 mark. ... There are four back from last year, but 32 others are under eighteen. . . The conference champs will really have to be on the ball to measure up to standards once again. . . Pete Pihos, Matt Deal and John Tavenger are expected to bear the brunt of Indiana’s chores______ Plenty of inexperience make up the remainder of the 36 man total, including Eddie McGovern, formerly of Rose Poly where he was the : nation’s leading scorer last season. . . Ray Eliot, skates on thin ice with only 30 from .which to chose, ad none of those-are lettermen, Ralph Palmer is the only man with any experience. . . Somebody else, better show up this fall... . So, there it is. . '. Over 650 meh. . Some got it, some ain’t All in all, Fritz Crisler looks like
10	_
he can breathe a little easier with the stuff that he’s got. . .
Ed Blow is the sports editor of the Indiana Boys’ School Herald. Just think how monotonous it must get for him to hear, “Hey Blow, gimme a blow.” . . . Iowa Seahawk football sessions got under way last Monday, with a month of prospective practice before the September 18 opener with Illinois. .. .Lt. Don Faurot, formerly head coach of Missouri and presently the chief men-tor for Seahawks, holds an M.A. in agriculture. . . You can see that he started from the ground up. . . Both of the Hoosier basketball coaches have relegated their services to the Navy, they being Lieut, (jg) Branch McCracken, and Ensign Bill Johnson. . . No successors have been named as yet. . . With another confirming “no” from the War Department concerning trainees participating in college varsity sports, many of the institutions who were standing by for an “ease-up” verdict will probably fold, thus bringing the total to well over two-hundred . . . Duke has lost 25 of its 1942 squad of 44 to the services. . . Three regularly scheduled games with Colgate, Pittsburgh, and Vanderbilt have been cancelled due to the addition of several service teams in the present nine game Blue Devil schedule. . . People wondering about Arky Vaughn’s base-stealing capacity are probably unaware of the fact that he was a Southern California scholastic sprint champ in high school. . . . He’s leading the league as a base robber now. . . With the receipts piling sky high from nocturnal diamond contests in the majors, it looks like the war has taught the boys how financial promotion works. . . Since the theory of increased funds will be hard. to displace, night baseball will hardly be erased in the, war aftermath. . . Besides when an abstainer from the cause like Clark Griffith, changes his mind, then something’s here to stay.
Net Season Under Way
BY DAN REARDON
The schedule for this summer’s interhall tennis has been completed, and action is now-under way. Sixty-five, contestants have signed up for participa- /’ tioh in the tournament. The captains of . the halls for the current season are: . Dillon, Bob Faught and Frankie Curran; Walsh, Ed Caparo; Sorin, Joe Murnane;
Alumni, Charley Samson and Bill Griffin; Cavanaugh, Jack Freeman; Faculty, Mr. Walter Langford; St. Edward’s, Bill Carey; Dillon II, Dick Doemer; Main Building, Guy Perenich; and Zahm, Bob Paddock.
The schedule, complete to the playoff is:
August 14—Alumni vs. Cavanaugh; Walsh vs. Dillon II.
August 17—Sorin vs. Dillon I.
August 19—Faculty vs. Main Bldg.
August 21—St. Ed’s vs. Cavanaugh; Zahm vs. Walsh.
August 24—Faculty vs. Dillon II.
August 26—Alumni vs. Sorin.
August 28—Main Bldg. vs. Walsh.
August 31—Dillon I vs. St. Edward’s.
Sept. 2—Zahm vs. Dillon II.
Sept. 4—Cavanaugh vs. Sorin.
Sept. 7—Alumni vs. St. Edward’s.
Sept. 9—Main Building vs. Zahm.
Sept. 11—Faculty vs. Walsh; Dillon I vs. Cavanaugh.
Sept. 14—St. Ed’s vs. • Cavanaugh.
Sept. 16—Alumni vs. Dillon I.
Sept. 18—Dillon II vs. Main Bldg.; Faculty vs. Zahm.
Sept. 21—Play-off.
Bertelli and Szymanski in Collegiate All-Star Lineup
Angelo Bertelii
. The Collegiate All Star’s lineup was further strengthened this week with the addition of two more Notre Dame warriors to the already impressive list of gridiron greats. Angelo Bertelli, the Springfield Rifle, and sparkplug of the Irish eleven the past two years will be pitching ground gaining aerials at- the Redskins. Center Frank Szymanski, also of this fall’s .Notre Dame squad, will bolster the Star’s array of pivotmen.
Bertelli-and Szymanski will travel to the Evanston camp of the Stars over the weekend for practice, and then will hot see their future', teammates until the eve before the game.
Bob Robertson, former Southern Cal. Ace
Summer Grid Workouts End
and Irish Headache, Stationed Here
BY ROLAND J. STEINLE
Looking back just two seasons Notre Dame will remember the Southern California game of 1941! But more to be remembered on that day in our stadium is one named Bob Robertson. The Irish won that game, 20-18. That December afternoon they completed the first undefeated season since the days of Rockne. But it wasn’t Bob Robertson’s fault that the Irish did emerge victorious. He personally accounted for two of the three U. S. C. touchdowns. He threw a 20 yard pass in the first quarter for the first marker of the game, and then late in the fourth quarter went eight yards through the Notre Dame line for a touchdown, standing up. The papers that evening hailed him as the outstanding athlete on the field, and few, if any, of the 56,000 spectators could disagree with the opinion. When Bob left Notre Dame and South Bend that week-end, he wasn’t „ sure that he’d ever return, for he was a senior, and his collegiate football career was rapidly coming to a close. He had learned to like the west coast, and he was looking for a place in the coaching game out there.
But Robertson has returned to Notre Dame. The Navy has sent him here in the capacity of a Chief Petty Officer to aid in the physical development of the V-12 fellows. And probably for the first time Notre Dame is glad to see Bob, and __ is happy that for a change he’s on her side.	.
Bob Robertson was bom in South Dakota—Pine Ridge to be precise—in 1917. His father at the time was. running a hotel in that little town, which incidentally is located in the Sioux Indian Reservation. Often as a young fellow he joined the Indians in their games and festivals, hooting and singing and dancing as well as the natives. He entered Central High school in Omaha as a freshman, but when his father died and his mother left for the West .coast for her health, he soon followed. He finished high school at Black Fox Military School in Los Angeles. Upon graduation he had stored away letters in football, basketball, baseball and track. From there he went to the University of Southern California, where as a freshman he made quite a name for himself. However, in 1938 bad luck dogged his trail, and he was forced . to leave school with a torn ligament. He returned the following year and became a . Sophomore sensation. lii the course of the season which had as a climax a bid to the Rose Bowl, he journeyed to South
Bend with the team and helped to account for a 20-12 victory over the Irish. Looking back now, he remembers that two of his greatest football thrills came when he started both the Notre Dame and Rose Bowl games, the only Sophomore in the S. C. lineup.
' In the fall of 1940 he had his second encounter with Notre Dame out on the coast, but this time the Irish came out on the long end of a 10-6 score. The clippings of that game tell that some 95,000 persons crammed the stadium to witness one of the hardest fought games of the year. Then in 1941 he came out here again to almost junk the undefeated hopes of Notre Dame. At the end of the season Bob was nominated on several All - American teams throughout the country, and due to his fine collegiate career was picked to play in the EastWest game in New Orleans and the AllStar game in Chicago.
Records for that year show that he led the West Coast in yardage gained by passing and yardage gained by combination rushing and passing. -
The 1942 season saw Bob play professional ball with Brooklyn, after which he joined the Navy and was sent to the Physical Instructors’ School at Norfolk, Va. From there he journeyed to the Naval Air Station, Alameda, Calif., and thence to Notre Dame.
Bob was married the 5th of June, 1942, and is at the present living in downtown South Bend. .
Coaching still holds his interest, and after the. war he would like to settle down as a mentor out west.
I-
Cross Country Called Out
Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy, Notre Dame track coach, has announced the call for cross country track candidates. Light pre-season workouts will start soon.
Coach Handy hopes that . all Navy, Marine and civilian students who have had
any track experience or feel that they have the ability will report. Coach Handy may, be reached at his office in the Athletic Department in Breen-Phillips Hall or at Cartier Field almost every afternoon.	-
Notre Dame summer football practice came to an end on Saturday afternoon, August 14. The sessions which started on July 26 were cut prematurely short because of the intense heat and the approaching mid-semester exams.
Coach Leahy ran the 60 odd candidates through drills designed to instruct them .in the fundamentals of the “T” formation. Dressed in shorts and “T” shirts the players toiled under the hot August sun to perfect their steps and timing.
As yet no definite time has been set for the start of fall practice. At present Coach Leahy is at Evanston, assisting in the preparation of the All Star grid-ders for their coming tilt with the professional champions, the Washington Redskins.
Rockne Coaches to Lead
Iowa Pre-Flight Seahawks
Two sons of the Fighting Irish were recently named to coach the Iowa PreFlight Naval Training station football team. Lieut. Larry (Moon) Mullins and Lieut. (j.g.) Thomas F. Heamdon assistants to head coach-Don Faurot, ex- . .Missouri mentor, have been appointed to -lead the flight cadets through their second year of top collegiate competition.
Larry Mullins was the last of Rockne’s great fullbacks. During the seasons of ’28, ’29 and ’30 Moon sparked the mighty Irish to some of their greatest triumphs. On his graduation in ’31 he , signed to aid the backfield coaching at the University of Kansas. After a year - _ Mullins stepped into his own: driver’s . - :
seat and lead the St. Benedict’s eleven of Atchison, Kans., from 1932 till 1936. During this time he steered the Kansas school to 38 triumphs, one tie, and only five losses. The next move for Moon was south to New Orleans and Loyola University. The year after his team claimed the mythical Dixie Championship with a five and five record, Mullins switched his blackboard and pointer to St. Ambrose College in Davenport, la. Now a Navy lieutenant, the old Notre Damer will stare across the sod at his old Rockne teammate next fall — none other than head coach Frank Leahy.
Tom (Red) Hearndon, co-captain of the 1926 edition of N. D. footballers and one of the nation’s most successful high school coaches, is another who will handle the Navy backs. Red played some professional ball with his own home town Green Bay Packers up Wisconsin way, and then led the East High school team of the same city to 38 triumphs in 39 outings over a five year stretch. He also boasted a win streak of some 32 triumphs.
Irish Running Ace Bagarus
To Play in Redskin Line-up
Steve Bagarus
First Diamond Defeat
At Hands of Prisoners
Aftei' taking three straight encounters the Notre Dame baseball team entrained
for Michigan City where they dropped their first game of the. season to the State Penitentiary nine by a 5-3 score.
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone
■	•	3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
It was a close game right up to the eighth inning, when the inmates bunched three hits and an error to net three runs. These were enough to gain the triumph. Both Bill Martin, who toiled for the Irish, and Joe Barry, prison hurler, gave up a total of eight hits. The longest blow for the vanquished was put over the wall by Marv Kranda, Marine first basemen from Scranton, Pa. Considering the shallow right field wall, it was called a ground rule double.
Due to the fine showing by the prisoners, they were invited by the city to play their first “away” game in history. The opposition was the Michigan City Cubs, and the receipts were to be turned over to a local charity organization.
Another Notre Dame name will find a place on the All Star-Washington Redskin football program next Thursday evening. This time, however, it will be on the roster of the Washington Redskins. Halfback Steve Bagarus of South Bend, a former Irish running ace, and now an Army corporal on the West Coast, has signed a contract for this one game.
Steve will line up against several of his ex-teammates, now stalwarts in the Collegiate lineup. Last week in an East-West professional benefit game played in San Diego, the ex-Washington High school ace starred. Bagarus scored the touchdown that beat Sammy Baugh’s team, 10-7.
It is expected that he will be able to get a furlough long enough to enable him to play in the Dyche Stadium thriller.
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 750 for each $100. Minimum cost 400 for $10 to $50. For sale at Banks, Railway Express offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS s- TRAVELERS CHEQUES
12
Mulready, '38, Radio Star
Tom Reddy (Mulready) '38
Literally in the spotlight is Tom Mulready, ’38, who under his professional name, Tom Reddy, is master of ceremonies of the Fitch Bandwagon program on NBC.
Tom was radio announcer before he ever came to Notre Dame, making his debut on Station WJAG, Norfolk, Nebr., when he was only 15 years of age. He took four years out for his college education, and then became an actor at Station WSBT in South Bend.
Since then he has announced news and special events at Stations KSCJ, Sioux City, Iowa; WNAX, Yankton, S. D., and WHO, Des Moines.
Tom shortened his name to Reddy for purposes of euphony, but still sticks to his good old Irish name when he is not on the air.
He has moved his wife and three sons to Hollywood.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Notre Dame Tennis Men Dominate Title Play
In the South Bend city tennis championships, now in full swing, several of Notre Dame’s racquet swingers have monopolized the spotlight.
Defending champion Ed Caparo was number four man on the spring varsity squad. Ed has reached the semi-finals and is slated to meet Louis Chreist, captain of Notre Dame’s tennis team in
DO YOU DIG IT ?
Submitted by Wm. Bruce Cameron
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
’33. Chreist is a former city champ himself. ■ ■
Charles Samson, no. 2 man from Ohio State came up with the biggest upset of the tournament when he toppled favorite Bob Faught in a gruelling three set match. He thus earned himself a semifinalist’s berth.
In the doubles Bob Faught and Charley Samson are the favored combination. Caparo and Paddock are also considered a powerful pair and should be carefully watched.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers. / •	..
13,
Most Distinctive Feature of Civilian Life — The Maid
BY DICK AMES
Johnny Freshman, when he comes to Notre Dame, is still thinking of the girl named Annie and his Mom’s cookies the first day or two, and is all in all a rather forlorn picture of adolescence. But that feeling of despondency never lasts very long. For one thing, the meals are so good that he soon forgets about the cookies; then he meets the lovely creature from St. Mary’s who wipes out all memories of the lisping voice back home; but most important of all is that on his first morning here he is shaken out of bed gently, and comes face to face with that indispensable personality of civilian student life—the maid, sweeper of dust, hearer of worries and scolder for crimes.
After he is here for awhile he begins to realize that there are many species of maids, and learns to classify them. First there is the Whose-Little-Boy-Are-You type; not really prying, but very inquisitive. Johnny finds out after his initial week that she knows more about him through his ingenious replies and her own deductions than he ever found out about himself. Soon she is using Johnny’s room as an excuse for a seemingly endless series of conversations, long and rather personal at times,, but friendly and welcome to the lad away from home.
Then there is the grunt-and-groan type. She comes in with a grunt as she opens the door, leans over to straighten the bed with a groan, wipes off the desk with a sigh, and leaves the room quietly behind her, with the odor of musk floating about and the color of dust still apparent on Johnny’s bookcase.
Type number three is the definitely belligerent type. She makes a point of waking Johnny early to make his bed on the days she knows he sleeps, breaking in with a vacuum cleaner in the middle of his bull sessions, throwing out all important-looking papers that she sees lying around, and tearing up the crib notes he has taken three hours to compose. No retribution has ever been made for the crimes of this type, but there, are few if any explanations for the phenomenon.
The Navy and Marine corps have, unfortunately, been deprived of the privilege of becoming acquainted with these estimable women, and for that the civilian students feel very sad. For undoubtedly friendships and comradely feeling do spring up between the maids and the students which are pleasant for both.
14
Credit Due Coach Langford
BY DAN REARDON
To Mr. Walter Langford, Notre Dame tennis coach, belongs all the credit for the present extensive tennis program in operation at the University.
A native of McAllen, Texas, close to the Mexican border, Mr. Langford began to speak Spanish from necessity. In order to play baseball with his Mexican neighbors, he had to speak Spanish to make himself understood. While in Texas he collected several interscholastic and city net titles.
In the fall of 1926 Mr. Langford entered the University of Notre Dame. The following spring found him winning Freshman numerals in tennis. For the rest of his college career, however, the net game took a secondary place to his first love, baseball.
A 1930 graduate, he returned to the University the following term as a teacher. At first a Spanish pedagogue, in later years he extended his field to Portuguese and Latin American history. Today he is one of the most popular professors on the campus.
In 1935 Coach Langford had his first taste as guide of Notre Dame tennis teams. He began as an assistant to the late Mr. de Landero. When the latter left for Mexico, Mr. Langford took over
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of-Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATION.
TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
his position as the fencing and tennis coach.
Coach Langford’s first winning season was in 1940 when the team won four and lost three. His 1941 team won seven matches and only bowed to one opponent. Then in 1942 the Notre Dame racquet wielders won the Mid-Western Collegiate Championship, when they breezed through a season of nine consecutive triumphs. It was the finest tennis record in Notre Dame’s history.
In last summer’s interhall league Mr. Langford and partner Brother Edmund went unbeaten throughout the doubles contests. In the singles matches the present coach was rarely beaten.
N.R.O.T.C. Group to
Sponsor Hayride
A hayride, to be held at 8 p. m. Saturday, August 21, will be sponsored by the unit athletic association of the N. R.O.T.C as their second social event of this semester.
The State Line Stables are providing the wagons for the occasion, which will begin at the intersection of Dixie High-
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Telephone 8-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. DJ).S. PETER J. ROSE. D-D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist . FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
way and State Line Road. The party will go from there to the Isaac Walton Lodge where refreshments will be served and where an hour of dancing will be held.
A Niles Bus will leave downtown South Bend at 7:30 p.m. and will arrive at the corner where the ride is to start at 7:50 p. m. A special bus may be chartered, but this has not been settled as yet.	.
The group will be restricted to thirty couples, because of the limited capacities of the wagons. The total cost for the wagons and refreshments, as well as dancing, -will be §1.50. a couple. Jack Houghteling in room 323 Walsh will take reservations on the basis of first come first served, and all who wish to go should contact him at the earliest opportunity.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
-	825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, MJ).	M. J. Thornton. MJ).'
IS - k.

GET READY for THE FUN —
THE SCHOLASTIC invites you to enter the K. of C's
All-Campus Vaudeville
Washington Hall, Sept. 17
All Contestants
Should leave their names and addresses at the K. of C. office in the Basement of Walsh Hall, together with a brief description of their acts. Try-out dates will be assigned accordingly. For further details, read THE SCHOLASTIC.