• The Notre Dame
'£
PROVE
TO YOURSELF
N 013% AR ETTE
HANGOVER when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS! A. A

r
% PHILIP MORRIS
up a
NOW
Quite a
HERE’S ALL YOU 00!

,t a few seconds you can prove
PHILIP MORRIS
IS definitely less irritating
Id 1/sriMi..-.	-
than the brand you’re now smoking!
I... light PHILIP MORRIS
THEN. just take a puff—DON'T INHALE — and s-l~o-w-l-y let the (moke come through your nose. And NOW . . .
2.0. .light up your present brand Do exactly the same thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
YOU KNOW WHY YOU
SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS !
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
2
The Scholastic
Room for Improvement?
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Editor:
The annual football issue of the Scholastic, like Frank Leahy’s football ■W team, keeps getting better and better, even though one wonders how there can be room for improvement. Just how good can they get? It will be hard to top this latest one, however. The Kodachrome cover is a dandy.
William A. Page Fort Thompson, South Dakota.
Mistaken Identity
Editor:
It seems that Dan Brennan has an apology to make to the Christian Brothers and Manhattan College. In his “Names Make News” column in the Dec. 16 Scholastic he erroneously stated that Buddy Hassett, former New York Yankee baseball player, once played for Notre Dame.
Buddy Hassett attended Manhattan College in New York City in the early ’30’s. Mr. Brennan has confused Buddy with his brother, Billy, who played baseball and basketball here during the war years. Still another brother, Barney, played for Manhattan’s basketball team in the late ’30’s.
Also, why doesn’t “A SchMU” wise up and sign his name to things he writes? So what if he was rooting for a homestate team on Dec. 3! Journalists should always back up their statements : with their names.
Tom McAllister Sorin Hall
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 NORTH NILES
AULT'S SHUTTER BUGS
Photography is an interesting hobby. You’d be surprised how economically you can become an amateur photographer (Shutterbug.)
SEE US FOR YOUR PHOTO NEEDS
AULT
Camera Shop, Inc.
122 South Main St.
Phone 3-5041
Another GREAT J
anuary
SALE
ENGLISH ESSENTIALS EXAM
Upperclassmen who have not yet passed the Freshman English “Essentials” examination may take the exam on Tuesday, January 17, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 243 of the Main Building.
GRADUATE RECORD EXAM
Closing registration date for the February Graduate Record Examination is noon, Jan. 20. Registration forms may be obtained from the local examiner in Room 125 of the Social Science Building.
Our Entire Stock of ... .
• SUITS
• TOPCOATS
• SPORT COATS
• SLACKS
RASMUSSEN ^7
106-108 S. Main	130-112 W. Washington
0 Jan. 13, 1950
3
i
Personalized Stationery
I
ONE DAY Service
E
I-
Ask to See Our Display
. . Notre Dame Bookstore
COMING SOON
to your Hall Door
the Winter Issue of the
J I } X
i
4
The Scholastic
’the week
by flack McGoldrick —	- -
Top of the Week
Final exams to be given on system.
honor
Back in the Saddle
By now all the lads have settled down from the post-Xmas jitters season. The usual stories have been told and re-told, and things are moving along at their usual pace.
The most notable social events of the holiday season were the Notre Dame club dances in various cities all over the country. Most of them were great successes.
The Met Club dance at New, York’s Waldorf-Astoria lacked only the traditional blizzard that has accompanied it the past few years. The New England and New Jersey Club dances both had good turn-outs. As usual, the Chicago Club affair, held in one of the Chicago A hotels that was going to get new ballroom furniture anyway, was the largest and the loudest. Always a financial as well as' a social success, it is rumored that the receipts from this year’s 'dance will be used by the organization to buy the Social Science building and use it as a campus clubhouse. This has not been confirmed, but club officers have denied the story that Alumni Hall was given away as a door prize at the dance.
Since the last issue of Scholastic appeared on the newsstands, the Christmas trees have been assembled and dismantled, Joe Stalin has celebrated his seventieth birthday, the footbowl season has finally ended, term papers are coming due, final exams are creeping up, and Easter is twelve weeks away.
Time, and the WEEK marches on.
Life at Notre Danie
Before the basketball season ends, the university will have held its 105th commencement. The following is a little story about one of the graduates-to-be, and was overheard in the fieldhouse the other night by one of our correspondents :
Ben Muncil, of Huddle and Paul Smith’s fame, went over to watch the DePaul game the other night, but for
Jan. 13, 1950
got to bring his I.D. card along. As we all well know, this is a flagrant violation of all regulations, and a conference of the ushers at the gym doors resulted. Finally, one of them said to Ben, “Well, if you’re a student, let’s hear you sing the first stanza of the Victory March.” Due to the complexity of the situation, our hero. was unable to utter even the first word. Silence reigned. This seemed to be just what the two gendarmes expected; one nodded to the other knowingly and said, “See, he’s a student, let him in.”
Signs of the Times
The bulletin board in the lobby of the Main Library contains all sorts of interesting information. For the past month or so, a blue sheet of paper, containing the following gem of knowledge has been tacked in the lower left hand corner of the board:
“South Bend, Indiana, lies in the center of America’s greatest peppermint and spearmint oil producing districts, surrounded by a rich muck crop region, producing potatoes, celery and onions.”
As Mel Allen would say, “How about that?”
What Would You Have Done?
Ever since the finance company reclaimed WND’s FM booster, the station has been using theii- own record library to fill out the afternoon programming.
Recently, complaints have been received that some of the listening audience who sack out daily to the tune of uninterrupted music is getting tired of hearing the same platters every other day. At a staff meeting Thursday night, money was appropriated to rebuild the turntables, so that next semester, the records could be played backwards on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and forward on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Station announcers have been practicing up on announcing the titles in reverse English, but this move has not been approved yet.
Bottom of the Week
The profs have the honor; the students have the system.
jan. issue
of
THE NOTRE DAME
technical review
on sale at the Book Store and the
Cafeteria Newsstand
Friday, Jan. 20
25c per copy $1.00 per year
15 PHOTOS $1°°
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2J4 x 3J4
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL $1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROCOpy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
Corsages
FLOWERS for All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
5
Entertainment
JANUARY 14
COLFAX (through Jan. 25)—Critics throughout the country have praised Jolson Sings Again (Legion of Decency Rating B) as a worthy, if not a better successor to the original, The Jolson Story. With Larry Parks doing a repeat as the mugger for Jolson’s voice, and with Barbara Hale as his second wife, this technicolor pic is entertainment at its best.
AVON (through Jan. 20)—Robert Mitchum and Janet Leigh are the leads in Holiday Affair (A-l). It’s a sugary piece of sentiment about a war widow, her little boy and two suitors. A pleasant picture — let’s leave it at that.
PALACE (through Jan. 17)—Maureen O’Hara as a whirling dervish in color ought to be good, but the plot of Bagdad is unadulterated tripe. Can’t find any data on the associate feature, Tough Assignment, so it’s probably one of those trifles that Monogram sneaks out when no one's looking.
WASHINGTON HALL—The Bank Dick went over with such a bang, that another W. C. Fields reissue has been procured. You Can't Cheat an Honest Man is the name of it and it should supply a welter of laughs.
JANUARY 15
PALAIS ROYALE—Sammy Kaye and his “swing and sway’’ orchestra, long-time college favorites, land in South Bend for a one-night dance date. His popular “So You Want to Lead a Band” feature will be incorporated into the entertainment. Fellows with downtown dates should find it fun.
GRANADA (through Jan. 18)—Free For All (A-l), starring Robert Montgomery and Ann Blythe, is silly but fun. Not much can be said for the co-pic, Laiv of the West, a nondescript western.
STATE (through Jan. 18)—Gorilla and Kentucky Moonshine. Leave it to the State. If Hollywood grinds out a lulu you can bet the State will book it. This week they come up with two dependables.
JANUARY 18
FIELD HOUSE—The Spartans of Michigan State come down, hoping to vindicate last Saturday night’s victory by O’Shea and company. The revamped quintet is at last something to watch — we hope.
PALACE—The biggest bijou in town goes legit for a night with their presentation of Mary Chase’s comedy, Harvey. James Dunn stars as the lovable alcoholic. Harvey leaves the Strat for the night to assume the starring role. If the show is still as good as it was in New York, then it is recommended without reservation.
JANUARY 19
FINALS—Put out the crepe, the day of doom arrives with a thunderclap. Six months of studying and six hours of cramming will at last produce their results — some good, some bad. Now hear this, now hear this: men, man your blue books.
JANUARY 29
GRADUATION—Several hundred ND’ers don mortar boards and gowns and then leave the campus upon which they have studied and lived for the past four years. The Scholastic wishes them all the best of luck.
6

...'.k1. y
"You, too, will
like the fresh, * minty flavor and relaxing
refreshment of
Beech-Nut $
Gum”
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance fol- mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 191". Authorized June 23, 1918.
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR WALTON R. COLLINS___________________News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI__________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.__________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY  ....Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN.______________Photography
LEON GARDNER___________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising
WILLIAM KLEE_________________Circulation
EDMOND FOLEY_________________Circulation
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
DALE FRANCIS Faculty Moderator
COVER: We will repent for the sins we have committed. Jim Sebold, not unlike the rest of us, can be seen burning the midnight oil (or, rather, the 4:15 a.m. oil) as he crams for those finals which descend upon the campus next Thursday.
All those movies, those bridge games, those bull-sessions, those caf cups of coffee and those other innumerable wasters of time will be felt. Resolutions by the score will be made — just wait until next semester; things are going to be different! But then the second half of the year will arrive and we’ll backslide right into our old habits. Like kids of six, we never learn. ‘Tm sorry I flunked all those courses, but gosh, Paw, ya' gotta’ have fun — dontcha?”	—Photo by McLaughlin
Jan. 13, 1950
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 January 13, 1950 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
From the Editor’s Desk..
The Veterans Vanish
This year’s January graduation will mark the end of a college career for another group of Notre Dame’s veterans. In four years, their number has constantly dwindled, until next semester onlv about one-fifth of the J	'	4
school’s total will be men who have been in the armed services.
In September of 1946, three-fourths of the students were veterans. It was right after the war, and they were pouring into South Bend as fast as thev could be discharged. As in the rest of the counrv. there were apprehensions regarding these returning men.
These apprehensions didn’t last long. The veterans proved they were really after an education, and though in many cases it took much hard work, they proved that they could do as well, if not better, than the younger men who had had no interruptions in their education. They accepted the disciplinary regulations; they worked right along with the non-veterans.
As soon as they got back, they showed their energy by trying to form a veterans club. Giant smokers were held in the Drill Hall, and as manv - > non-vets showed up to get the free ice crearh and smokes and to listen to the speakers. But the club was impractical: after all, most of the school would have been in it.
Realizing this, the unwieldly organization was allowed to disintegrate, and the veterans put their energy behind the long-established Notre Dame clubs and organizations. The athletic teams were largely veteran, as was the band, glee club. Scholastic and others.
The biggest contribution to these organizations by the veterans was an air of maturity. These older men not only enjoyed the activities, but worked at them, trying to make them as effective as possible. To the Scholastic, for instance, they gave a well-conceived editorial platform, a better put-together magazine and a responsible attitude toward college life.
Veterans carried this air of maturity with them in everything they did: not only activities, but the way they studied and lived. The younger students took on this maturity, and, in turn, lent their optimism when the older students were too grim.
The result of this happy interaction was a sort of a "Golden Era” for Notre Dame. The Veteran’s Era. Athletic teams reached their zenith — the football team’s record of 38 straight undefeated games is an example. Other activities, too, received, and are receiving national recognition. At the same time, the University’s scholastic standard has gotten increasingly better.
So, on January 29, another large group of Notre Dame’s veteran students will have finished their careers here. But, we feel their stay here will be long remembered. Not in a monument of brick and stone, but in the changed outlook of Notre Dame students. Although the Second World War was enough to sober America, the veteran took this sobriety and added to it his feeling of optimism. The result has been transferred to others (and we hope it will continue to be transferred) in the form of the idea that college is not just a place to spend four years in search of a good time. Instead, it is a place to prepare for a man’s responsibilities toward the world. In a ven7 real way, the veteran has built his own monument.
7
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
FOK STUDENTS OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
EXCITING NEWS ABOUT
Du Pont’s Newest Fiber
Hundreds of smaller businesses will join with Du Pont in bringing benefits of Orlon* acrylic fiber to you
INDUSTRIAL field will be largest initial consumer. Product’s resistance to acids and high temperatures is important in items such as filter cloths, coveralls, ropes, and work clothes.
Strong sunlight will damage most fibers—but not "Orlon” acrylic fiber, the latest synthetic yam to come from the Du Pont laboratories. This remarkable fiber, which took eight years of intensive research to develop, has a lasting resistance to sunfight, mildew, high temperatures and even sulfuric acid. Experts say that it is the best fiber yet found for outdoor use.
In 1940, Du Pont scientists began work on a new fiber that seemed to
have unusual properties. Development continued during the war when, under the name "Fiber A,” the output went for military use in the hot, humid South Pacific. Recently the Du Pont Company decided to build a plant at Camden, South Carolina, for full-scale production. This new plant will cost about twenty-two million dollars.
While samples of "Orlon” fiber are now in the hands of knitters, weavers and finishers for experimental pur
poses, it will probably be late 1950 before articles made of it will be generally available. Then you can expect to see it in awnings, convertible automobile tops, golf bags, sails, electrical insulation, as well as certain articles of clothing.
In developing the uses of "Orlon,” Du Pont will work with hundreds of smaller businesses—a "partnership” that will bring Americans not only new and better products, but more jobs, more business activity and another contribution to better living.
*TRADE-MARK
SEND FOR the booklet "This is Du Pont.” It is a 52-page picture story of one company’s contributions to America. For your free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
JOPDNJ
EEG. U.S. PAT. OFF-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING t..THROUGH CHEAHSTRT
OUTDOOR uses of "Orion” will indude furniture fabric, golf bags, sweaters and swimming suits. New fiber stands up extremely well under sun and rain.
Great Dramatic Entertainment—Tune in "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91 z NUMBER 13	JANUARY 13, 1950
Examination Horror Falls On Campus
Fisher Memorial Dorm Starts This Spring; '49 Foundation Total Tops 1.75 Million
By JIM O’BRIEN
Through the generosity of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Company, Detroit, Mich., a new residence hall will be erected on the campus this Spring at a cost of $750,000. In addition $250,000 will be made available for loans to qualified Notre Dame students.
The new residence hall, similar in a construction to Farley Hall, will be built " immediately north of Farley and will accommodate approximately 200 students. The hall will be named “The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial.”
The million dollar gift, also makes possible a revolving cash fund available to students who are in need of loans to finance their college education at Notre Dame.
All loans will be solely at the discre-A lion of the University Administration and a slight interest rate will be charged. The loans will be available not only to students with high scholastic averages, but also to any deserving student willing to work his way through college. Repayment will be due within a reasonable time after graduation.
Father Cavanaugh Pleased
Commenting on the gift, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of
£ Notre Dame, said:
“The fundamental philosophy underlying the gift is in keeping both with the principles of the late Mr. Fisher, one of the country’s most noted empire builders, and with the traditions of the University of Notre Dame. We believe that the young men of America, given the opportunity offered in Mrs. Fisher’s gift, will provide the morally responsible leadership which is so vital to the peace and security of this country.”
Jan. 13, 1950
This gift, added to an already highly successful year for the University of Notre Dame Foundation and Alumni Association, brings the total of 1949 contributions far above any previous year in ND history and nearly triples the amount received in 1948.
The following table compares contributions in 1949, ’48 and ’47. Figures are not complete for 1949. Contributions for last year- are still arriving at the Foundation office.
	1947	1948	1949
			(partial)
Alumni. Contributors	7888	6973	7458
Amount	0376,013	0451,898	0 438,978
Friends : Contributors	302	691	1117
Amount	0175,790	0163,041	01,343,732
Total: Contributors	8190	7664	8575
Amount	0551,803	0614,939	01,782,710
Of the 1948 alumni figure of $451,898, $112,000 represented a bequest officially credited in 1948. Of the 1949 alumni figure to date, $40,000 represents a bequest. Excluding these two bequests, the alumni contributions for 1949, thus far received, total $59,000 more than in 1948.
More Contribute in ’49
Through Foundation and Alumni Association efforts, contributions from 500 more alumni were received in 1949 than the previous year. Contributions from friends (non-alumni) were nearly doubled in 1949 to date. In amount, excluding Mrs. Fisher’s gift of $1,000,000, non-alunmi have contributed more than twice as much as they they did in 1948.
First Semester Finals To Begin Thursday
Whoever said that there are two things that you can depend on, death and taxes, was only partly right. He forgot final exams, but the good ole profs haven’t. Come Thursday, Jan. 19, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, for many have enrolled but not so many have studied. No amount of last year’s exams, cribs and inside info will make up for dissipated hours.
Perhaps the millennium has been reached and each student is well-prepared, well-informed and will be able to render a favorable account of his scholastic efforts this semester. The general consensus of opinion does not seem to support this hope.
Exams open, as usual, with departmentals dominating the entire first day and a good part of the next three. These are easy to figure out from the schedule.
When the “8:00 Monday, Jan. 2-3— Classes taught at 8:00 on TTS” business starts coming up, it is suggested you find someone majoring in accounting to help you figure it out. If this doesn’t work, don’t worry about it. Ask your prof in the middle of a frantic last-minute review and he’ll be glad to name the time and place of the final.
The schedule has been arranged so that everyone either has no exams from Friday until Wednesday and then five at once; or else you will be through by Monday except for the perennially pesky 11:00 TTS which will keep as many as possible on campus till the last day of the week.
But Thursday, Jan. 26, will inevitably roll around and then books and profs and tests and all the rest can be blissfully forgotten until Feb. 2.
The schedule:
8:00 on Thurs., Jan. 19—Electrical Engineering 37
(Continued on Page 28)
9
Dr. Paul G Bartholomew points out some of the sights that the large contingent of between-semester trippers will see when they arrive in Washington next week.
Capital Trip Features Spanish Embassy Visit
A reception at the Spanish Embassy on Friday, Jan. 27, will be one of the highlights of Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew’s annual between-semesters trip to Washington. In past years between 25 and 30 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s have taken part in this trip and indications are that this year will see an even greater number.
Dr. Bartholomew has announced that reservations are still available and may
be obtained until Jan. 18, when all arrangements will be completed. The Lee-Sheraton hotel, in central Washington, will be headquarters for the touring group during its stay in the capital city.
Walter Trohan, an alumnus of the University and chief of the Chicago Tribune Washington Bureau, has invited those taking the trip to sup with him on Sunday night, Jan. 29.
Last year’s trippers were also invited to his home, arriving at 8 p.m. and leaving at 3 a.m., enjoying his talk and refreshments in the interim.
New Speech Program Sponsored by YCS
The coming semester will see a new speech program, designed to aid all students of the University, go into effect. Sponsored by YCS and presented with the cooperation of the Speech Department, the program will aim toward the development of a student’s ability as a speaker. An organization meeting is scheduled for the week of Feb. 6. Previous speech training is unnecessary for participation in this program.
During this first semester of the program’s existence the specific objective will be improvement of the externals of speech. Six two-hour meetings will be held, at the rate of one every two weeks. A 20-man group will attend each meeting and as many groups will be formed as are called for by the number of students availing themselves of the program.
At each meeting the members of the group will each deliver a talk approximately three minutes long. The moderator of the group, a member of the Speech Department staff, will then give constructive criticism or lead the group in a critical analysis of the member’s ■> talk. One particular speech “external” will be stressed at each meeting.
YCS feels that the individual student has much to gain by participation in this educational, but non-academic activity. Invaluable experience in speaking before a group, of special interest to the student who has had little training in this field, can be gained. Special attention to the beginner in speech will be given, and plans call for a gradual introduction to the experience of speaking before a group.
U.S. Allows $4,000,000 More For Aid to Chinese Students
The Department of State has announced that an additional sum of 54,000,000 has been made available for emergency financial assistance to Chinese students in their graduate and undergraduate studies in accredited American colleges and universities. Grants to an individual may cover tuition, maintenance, and travel, and will be restricted to the amount sufficient to enable him to achieve an approved educational objective and to obtain return passage to China, when that is practicable.
While the Government of the United States has no specific responsibility for providing financial assistance to foreign
10
students in this country, recent political and economic developments in China justify the continuation of this program, which was originally requested by the Republic of China.
At the present time there are eight Chinese students at Notre Dame who are receiving grants from the United States Government. The first to receive these grants are Mai Shu-huai from Lanchu Kanshu and Koo Yee Chien from Shanghai. Others receiving grants are Paul Timothy Chang, Chen Wing Yoo, Joseph Min-shun Chiao, Paul En Kun Fan, Ho Kuo-Chu, and Li Chia Kun.
The grants to Chinese students at Notre Dame are being handled by Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c., Dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame.
University Teacher Group To Discuss ND Humanities
“Teaching and Research in the Humanities and Science at Notre Dame’’ will be the topic discussed at a meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Law auditorium.
Speaking on the present status of research in the Humanities at Notre Dame as they see it will be Professors Aaron Abell, William Bennett, James Anderson, and Waldemar Gu-rian. An open discussion will follow the panel presentation.
The Scholastic
Holy Year, 1950
Notre Dame Pilgrims and Four Million More Will Offer Prayers In Rome During 1950. For Everybody, the Holy Year Indulgences
The year was 1300. Rome, jammed with pilgrims, tried in vain to solve the mystery of these old men with canes, young children, families who had travelled hundreds of miles on foot. What brought them? Nothing had been announced; there was more puzzlement in the papal chambers than anywhere in Rome. But the streams of pilgrims kept coming in a spontaneous demonstration of faith, so Boniface VIII pro-£ claimed the first Roman Holy Year.
Last month two weary, footsore exprisoners of wai’ arrived in Rome to watch Pius XII open the Holy Door of St. Peter’s Basilica, six and a half centuries later. The first foot-borne Holy Year pilgrims of 1950, they had walked from Turin, in an outlying province, and the journey had taken them 30 days.
The faith and determination of these two Italians might be a foreshadowing ♦ Jan. 13, 1950
By JAMES KINGSLEY
— a sign that the Vatican’s expectation of 4,000,000 pilgrims during the Jubilee year is no wishful dream. One hundred thousand were there on the opening day, showing the same kind of enthusiasm that has characterized every Holy Year, except those interrupted by wars, since the first one in 1300.
It was a rumor that brought Catholics to Rome that year, according to the Vatican’s most plausible guess — a rumor originating in the old Jewish law.
According to Leviticus, the land was to be given a rest every seventh year, just as men rest each seventh day. And after the seventh of these sabbatical years — that is, on the 50th year — Israelites would observe a year of rest and renewal, when debts would be remitted and slaves set free. It was a Jubilee year, because horns of jobels would usher it in.
Such a year was 1300, but since then
the interval between Jubilees has been shortened to 25 years, to give each generation a chance to visit the Holy See.
To Get Personal Audience
The charge was made, of course, that the Pope wanted lots of Holy Years so the Vatican coffers would be kept filled. Actually, Papal hospitality gives the holy till quite a beating on jubilee years. The Pope himself spares no personal discomfort, either. Pius XI saw every man, woman and child who came to Rome in 1925. This year his successor has promised to do 'the same, and Notre Dame students will receive his personal blessing on this Summer’s pilgrimage.
But Holy Year, according to Pius XII, means much more than going to Rome. In his inaugural of the Holy (Continued on Page 27)
11
January Graduates Prepare for Exercises; Two-Day Program Features Solon Kennedy
By ROGER VORCE
When the last exam of their college career is completed on January 27, the January graduating class will find that a full graduation weekend has been planned for them by the University.
With at least one day of leisure behind them, the graduates’ commencement exercises begin on Saturday, Jan. 28. At 8:30 a.m. they will assemble on the main floor of the Administration Building and from there march in academic procession to Sacred Heart Church. A Mass, for graduates only, will be celebrated by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., executive vice-presi-- dent of the University.
At ten a breakfast for the 1950 January class will be served in the University Dining hall. About eleven an assembly will be held in the Field House for a short rehearsal of commencement exercises.
That evening at 8 o’clock in Washington hall a concert will be given by the Moreau Choir under the direction of Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C. During intermission Carl A. Mathes, of the Department of Music, will play two Chopin numbers, Nocturne in D Flat Major and Scherzo in B Flat Minor.
After the concert a reception for the parents of the graduates will be held in the University Parlors of the Main Building.
On Sunday, Jan. 29, the graduates will meet at 8:30 a.m. in the Field House and march in academic procession to a Solemn High Mass and Baccalaureate Sermon in the Drill Hall. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, will be the celebrant of the Mass. He will be assisted by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., VicePresident in Charge of Academic Affairs, as Deacon, and Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c., Vice-President in Charge of Business Affairs, as Sub-Deacon. The Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered by Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, S.t.d., Archbishop of St. Louis.
At 1:30 p.m. the graduates will again assemble in the Field House for an academic procession to the Drill Hall. There, at 2 o’clock, their long awaited degrees will be conferred. The commencement speaker will be the Honorable-John F. Kennedy, U.S. Congressman from Massachusetts.
Honorary Degrees will be given to Archbishop Ritter, Mr. Kennedy, and Rear Admiral James L. Holloway, Jr.,
U.S.N., Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy.
Admission to the Baccalaureate Mass and the commencement exercises is by ticket only. Each graduate is entitled to four tickets for the Baccalaureate Mass and commencement exercises and in each case, two of these tickets are clearly marked for- the use of the immediate family of the graduate and entitle the holders to preferential seating.
Invitations, tickets, and programs for the commencement exercises may be obtained from the Alumni Office, West Wing, main floor of the Administration Building.
AB Student Wins Rhodes Scholarship
Herman H. Hamilton, Jr., Political Science major from Montgomery, Ala., is about to see the world. Never further North than his native Alabama until he entered Notre Dame four years ago, Herman was recently informed that he is a winner of a Rhodes Scholarship,
1948: Hamilton (right) wins Trib-Medal.
entitling him to two years of study at Oxford and extensive European travel during Summer vacations. The scholarship is valued at 500 pounds per year, and can be renewed for a third year.
The extensive travel connected with the scholarship will be a new experience for Hamilton but the winning of the scholarship is not. He is presently attending ND on a Meehan Scholarship entitling him to $1000 per year. In 1948 he won the Chicago Tribune Silver Award for proficiency in Naval Science and in 1949 earned the American Legion Award for Outstanding Midshipman.
After his graduation from Notre Dame this June, Hamilton plans to leave for England to begin his studies at Oxford where he will major in jurisprudence.
Hamilton is the third Notre Dame student to win a Rhodes Scholarship.
ND Law Club Sponsors Natural Law Debates £
The first of a series of debates on natural law, in its application to current legal problems, was presented last Tuesday (Jan. 10) evening in the law auditorium by members of the Notre Dame law club, on the topic “The Natural Law as Applied to Negative Covenants.” The series is being sponsored by the law club under the direction of Thomas B. Nelson, law senior from Elmhurst, Ill., and president of the club.
Negative covenants were explained as involving the right of one who sells his business to contract away his right to engage in the same business in the same locale for a specified time.
The law students who discussed the topic were Robert J. Affeldt of Detroit, Francis W. Collopy, Yuma, Ariz., Charles J. Perrin, Chicago, and Vincent C. Scully, Pittsburgh. William F. Roemer, Jr., of South Bend, acted as moderator.	W
Judges for the initial debate were the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, c.s.c., and Professor Edward F. Barrett of the law faculty.
Press Club Fetes Seniors
Mr. W. R. Walton, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune, spoke last night to the members of the Notre Dame X Press Club at their annual banquet honoring the January graduating seniors in the Department of Journalism.
The steak dinner- was held at the Ramble In on Dixie Highway North. Members of the Press Club presented three short skits under the aggregate title, “The Death of a Journalist.” Banquet chairman Jack Janowski was assisted by Phil Record, Ray Doherty, and John Rohrbach.
The Scholastic
12
I
| 9 World Politics Group Arranges Symposium
I	The Committee on International Ref	lations of the University of Notre
।	Dame has announced a symposium on
“The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, Reality” to be held early next semester. This symposium, cited as the ' A most important undertaking sponsored । by the young committee thus far, will be held in the Law Building on Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 7 and 8.
The symposium will feature eight speakers who are well acquainted with the Soviet Union. Opening the two-day affair on Feb. 7 at 9:30 a.m., will be Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame. Dr. Gurian will speak on the progress of • the Soviet Union “From Lenin to Stalin.” He will be followed by Professor Michael Karpovich, of Harvard University, who will talk on the “Historical Background of Soviet Thought Control.”
At 3:30 the same afternoon, Professor Stephen Kertesz, of the Yale University Law School, will open the second symposium session with a discussion of “Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe.” Featured with Kertesz on the afternoon program, Philip Mosely, professor of International Relations and a member of the Russian Institute at Columbia University, will speak on “Soviet Exploitation of National Conflict in Eastern Europe.”
At 8 p.m. that evening, the final session of the first day of the symposium will bring Vladimir N. Petrov, of Yale University, to the podium for a talk on the “Aims and Methods of Soviet £ Terrorism.”
On the morning of Feb. 8, at 9:30 a.m., Economist Neum Jasny, of Stanford University, will speak on the “Economics of the Soviet Union: Five-Year Plan Results.” He will be followed by two afternoon speakers, Professor Nicholas S. Timasheff, sociologist from Fordham University, and Rev. Franz Dvornik, who is connected with the Harvard University Research Library at Dumbarton Oaks. These experts will speak on “Church and State in the Soviet Union” and “Church and State in Central Europe,” respectively.
Each of the guest speakers for this symposium is a noted authority on his subject. Stephen Kertesz was former Hungarian minister to Italy. Professor Mosely has done years of research in Moscow and the Balkans, and he was attached to the United States delegations to the Moscow (1943), London (1944-45), and Potsdam (1945) confer-
# Jan. 13, 1950
Jo Anne Murray
Mary Ann Holters
ences. Professor Petrov was a prisoner of the Soviet for several years in the gold mines of Siberia. Father Dvornik, a former ND lecturer for the History Department, is one of the foremost authorities on the question of Church and State in Europe and on Eastern culture.
The symposium will be open to all students and faculty members.
Notre Dame X-Ray Survey Shows Five Suspicious Cases
The report on the chest X-ray survey held last month at Notre Dame by the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League showed only five persons suspected for TB. Only one of this number was a student. The four other suspicious cases were employees of the University.
Out of 2,336 persons X-rayed during the four-day testing period, 2,121, or 90.8% of the total, had negative readings and showed no signs of Tuberculosis. This percentage shows an increase in healthy lungs at ND since the last survey by the TB League in December, 1948, when only 70% of those X-rayed had negative readings.
One hundred forty-three showed calcium deposits in the lungs, signs of exposure to TB. These deposits are scars of an old infection and do not mean that TB is active in the lungs.
Besides serving as the best possible test for tuberculosis, the recent X-rays showed 42 persons with pathologies other than TB.
For the benefit of those who missed the chest X-ray unit on campus, the Tuberculosis League will take X-rays at 316 S. Main St. in South Bend for three days beginning next Monday.
SMC Girls to Reign At Navy Ball Tonight
With two lovely queens reigning over Notre Dame’s midshipmen and their dates, the annual ROTC ball will be in the spotlight tonight. The music of Myron Walz and his orchestra will open the ball at “2100” in the Navy Drill hall. Co-chairmen John Ferry and Jack Courtney expect “one of the largest crowds in the history of the affair.” The Air Force cadets have been invited, as have all the Navy and Air Force officers.
The “Royal Court of Neptune” will be the theme of the dance, with mermaids, dolphins,, and other nautical figures highlighting the decorations. Two St. Mary’s College juniors, Miss Jo Anne Murray from Youngstown, Ohio, and Miss Mary Ann Holters from Columbus, Ohio, will rule as queens of the festivities.
One of the features of this evening’s activities will be the honoring of the senior midshipmen. With the underclassmen and their dates forming an honor guard, each senior and date will be announced and will then march past the guard.
One thousand car-nations will be flown in from Hawaii, and corsages will be presented at the door.
Assisting Ferry and Courtney are Gene Johnson, in charge of refreshments; Jack Donahoe, publicity; Phil Doney, decorations; Jack O’Brien and Ed Sullivan, tickets; Jim Black, favors; Charley Mouch, transportation, and Jack Thornton, date bureau.
The dance will end at 12:30 and car permissions extend to 1:30.
—Ken Stead
13
Junior Class Sponsors Ball for All Classes
Notre Dame’s last dance before the Lenten season, the Mardi Gras, will be held Friday, Feb. 17 at the Palais Roy-ale, Co-chairmen Frank Crovo and Jim Hennessy announced last week. All proceeds of the dance, which is being run by the junior class, will go to the Student Charity Fund.
The Ball is the first big campus dance
Crovo and Hennessy
open to freshmen, Crovo pointed out, and the committee expects a big frosh turnout. Dress for the occasion will be semi-formal and the exact time will be announced in the near future. The committee hopes to secure late permissions for dance-goers.
Bids will go on sale two weeks before the date at three dollars each; a booth will be set up in the Dining Hall for the purpose. Cochairmen Jim Hennessy and Frank Crovo are assisted by Tom Wolff, bids chairman; Dick Burke, decorations; Joe Shelley, publicity; Cornelius Desmond, general arrangements; and Ward McCabe, patrons.
NO SCHOLASTIC NEXT WEEK
With this issue, the SCHOLASTIC ceases its publication for this semester. Due to the exams next week, the magazine will not come out as originally scheduled. Next issue will be Feb. 10.
SCHOLASTIC newsmen are re-- minded the’-next' meeting for assignments will be Feb. 2, at 12:30 p.m., in Room 120 of the Main Building.
Christmas, 1949, Was Season of Dances; Roving 'Mike' Covers Irish Cross-Section
By AL LAPORTE
Christmas, 1949, was the season of dances. All over the United States, wherever enough wearers of the Blue and Gold gathered, there seemed t& be a big blowout in the form of a dinner, dance or what-have-you.
Scholastic was faced with a king-sized problem in trying to cover them all so, taking a page from the book of the major radio networks, in bowl fashion it set up a system of roving “mikes” in nine of the cities in which dances were held. We hoped by this means to get a cross-section of the various holiday festivities, realizing that to cover them all would have been impossible. By tape recording we bring you a resume of the Yuletide frolic.
“Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, this is Bill Bow, UND Director of Horseplay, ready to bring you portions of this year’s great Christmas shows in nine of the cities across this great nation. Today is Friday, the 23rd of December, and our calendar lists a little affair up in Rochester, New York, as the highlight of the day. Starting off the Christmas rush we switch you now to the exclusive Rochester Club for the first of our parties.”
“Hello, people, this is Vic Yawmans in the Grand Ballroom of the Rochester Club. Tonight the Club plays host to the Notre Dame Alumni-Student Christmas Formal and, believe me, there’s quite a crowd on hand. Over two hundred couples are here to dance to the music of Jack Nunn and his orchestra. The dance received some very good advance publicity through the local radio station and newspaper and, thanks to the work of the joint committee, we can report that tonight’s party is a huge success. Thanks for calling in, Bill, and now we’ll return you to Bill Bow and his roving mikes.”
“Thank you, Vic. We switch to Little Old New York and the Starlight Roof of. the Hotel Waldorf Astoria where the Metropolitan Club’s Formal is on its way. It’s the 26th of December now and the stars are bright over Manhattan. Come in, Chairman Joe Moschella in New York.”
“Thanks, Bill, and hello everybody. We’ve got a capacity crowd on the Roof tonight — 251 couples dancing to the- music of Harry- Arnold, that perennial Met Club maestro, high above the city’s streets. Mr. John D. Broderick, assistant dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, just finished a short
welcoming address and the floor is again filled with happy merrymakers. We’ve just contracted for another half hour of dancing. It’s now 1 o’clock, the dance has been going since 9, and nobody shows any inclination to leave. Wish you were here, Bill, ’cause it’s really great.”
“From the sounds coming in behind you it must be something, Joe. But we’re on our way again, this time up to Boston to catch a glimpse of the New England Club Formal at the Copley Plaza. Take it away, Joe Clancy.”
“Hello, Bill, this is Joe Clancy speak-ing for the other co-chairman, Jack Barry, from the State Suite of the Copley Plaza. Tonight’s the 27th of December and this is the first of three broadcasts of affairs this evening. There are about 60 couples here dancing to Freddy Sateriale’s band. We’ll be going from 9 ’til 1 at the Plaza but, since you have to move on to Pennsylvania with your broadcast, we’ll sign off with best wishes for the New Year.”
“Thanks, gang, and the best to you in Beantown. Now down to the City of Brotherly Love where Bill Whiteside is ready to give us a word picture of the Philadelphia Club Dance.”
“Greetings, bebops. We’re broadcasting from the Crystal and Rose Rooms of the John Barton Hotel in downtown Philadelphia where tonight 75 couples are swinging to the music of the Rhythmaires. This dance has, by its successful showing, strengthened the T campus club and pointed the way for future affairs in our hometown. We’ll turn you back to Bill Bow for your next stop, a long hop to the Midwest.”
“Yes, Bill, we do have a little way to go tonight — all the way to Chicago, the Windy City, where Vince Sheridan and Jim Herrington are waiting at the “mike.” OK, Chicago.”
“Good evening, listeners. We’re in the Grand Ballroom of the Sheridan Hotel where Lou Browning and his « band are playing for approximately 300	*
couples. The dance is a big success — everybody’s having a good time. We wish all of you could be here but, since time is short, we’ll switch you back to UND’s Director of Horseplay, Bill Bow.”
“Thanks, Vince and Jim, co-chairmen of the Chicago Club Christmas Informal. Now, after a quick breather, we
(Continued on Page 26)
The Scholastic
14
Head of Art Galleries Finds Rare Painting
“The most important find at an American auction in more than a quarter century!”
For §1,200, Dr. Maurice H. Goldblatt, director of the art galleries at ^0 Notre Dame, purchased a painting now estimated as being worth as much as §100,000 at a New York auction on the basis of a photo of the work in the auction catalogue.
The painting, “Madonna and Child,” was acquired by Dr. Goldblatt for a Chicago lawyer* and art collector, Bailey Stanton, at the Parke-Bernet auction gallery in New York last Nov. 16. One _ of a collection of “old masters” in the « estate of Henry Blank, a former Newark, N. J., jewelry manufacturer and art collector, the painting was attributed to an artist known as Brugemas-ter. However, when shown the catalog photo, Dr. Goldblatt recognized it as the work of Jean Hay (Jean Clouet the Elder) and recommended its purchase.
One other- group also recognized the possible value of the painting, represen. tatives of the Schoneman Galleries Inc., but when Dr. Goldblatt bid the §1,209 they raised by only §50, an amount considered too small under the Parke-Bernet rules, then due to superstition over bidding a figure containing the number 13 they delayed long enough for the picture to be sold to Dr. Goldblatt.
As director of the ND galleries and a well known art expert, Dr. Goldblatt was especially qualified in judging this picture. For some time now he has been interested in locating and identifying the works of Clouet, the founder of a whole family of noted artists, and Jean Perreal. Both men are well known, but for some time their paintings have been relatively obscure, many of them being credited to other artists. Due to Dr. Goldblatt’s investigations deserved fame is now being given the two artists and his views are gk presently upheld by the famous Louvre Galleries in Paris and the National Art Galleries in London.
The findings of Dr. Goldblatt were also the subject of a series of articles by him in the art magazine Connoisseur. Copies of the issues containing these articles were requested by the Queen of England because of the King’s ownership of a painting by Perreal.
—Lou Meece
A Jan. 13, 1950
Rita Gilsinger
New Session Planned for Senior Marriage Institute
The Marriage Institute, sponsored by the Religion Department and held earlier this semester, will be repeated again next semester beginning Feb. 9. The eight-week session of the Institute will be patterned on this semester’s and will be open to all graduate students, June graduates, and married students.
The meetings will be held in the Engineering auditoi-ium on Thursday evenings, Feb. 9, 16, and 23 and March 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30. With at least one exception, all the sessions of the Institute will be for men only.
Topics and speakers for the Marriage Institute will be announced later and the Bulletin Board and the Religious Bulletin will cany details for the first session, Feb. 9.
Retreat Planned by YCS To Gethsemani Monastery
The campus unit of the YCS will sponsor a between-semester retreat at the Cistercian Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani, Kentucky.
Charter bus facilities will be made available to a limited number of Notre Dame students, leaving on Jan. 27 and returning on Jan. 31. The approximate cost for the round trip will be §10.00. Sleeping and dining accommodations are to be had at the monastery.
Inquiries concerning reservations may be made through Jan. 16 to Jack Maher, 132 Alumni Hall, Don Bartnett, 150 Alumni Hall, and Charles O’Brien, 205 Walsh Hall.
Mary Freeman
'Beginning of END1 Set for February 3
The first social event of the spring semester, the second annual Engineers’ Ball, will be held Feb. 3 at the Palais Royale with the two orchestras of Bud Simpson and Ted Gallaghei- alternating the music. The theme for this year’s dance will be: 1897—The Beginning of Engineering at Notre Dame (END). A “Gay Nineties” motif appropriate to the theme will appear in the decorations and program favors.
Dance queens will be Miss Rita Gilsinger, a Sophomore at St. Mary’s, from Goodland, Ind., and Miss Mary Freeman, a Junior at the University of Detroit, from Detroit, Mich. They will be escorted by the co-chairmen of the Ball, Vai Reisig and Gerry Gries-mer.
Two o’clock permissions and car permissions are extended to all those attending. The Ball will be open to Freshmen. However, the chairmen have stated that the dance will be open to engineers only. Under the direction of Bob Hochman and Don Zwerski, a tux pool has been set up for any who wish to rent a tux.
According to chairman Vai Reisig, the price of the bid, §4.30, was designed to give the engineers “more for less.” Bids for the dance may be purchased from hall representatives or from ticket committeemen Bill Pierson, Bill Eggers, Jim Drennan, and Joe Gerardi. These representatives will also operate a date bureau.
Tickets to the ND-Marquette basketball game Feb. 4 will be held forthose dance-goers who are interested.
15
Cavanaugh Hall Gets New Mail Service
No longer will residents of Cavanaugh Hall be seen wandering down its halls shouting the familiar “Has i/.ie mail been delivered yet?” Cavanaugh has been chosen as the site of a new procedure of mail delivery which will be adopted on a campus-wide basis if the experiment proves successful in that hall.
During the Christmas holidays a bank of’ 168 post office boxes was installed at a central location on the first floor of the hall. The boxes are numbered to correspond to room numbers, with one box for each room in the hall.
First and second class mail deliveries will come direct from the Notre Dame Post Office to the boxes without the present delay in sorting and delivery to the rooms.
In announcing the “new look,” the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., vice-president in charge of student affairs, said:
“. . . The advantage of the boxes is that the mail will be sooner delivered and more safely and conveniently. Even second class matter, for the most part, can be placed in the boxes ...”
The present system for delivery of fourth class matter (packages) will be continued.
To avoid the peculiar habit of Notre Dame students of losing keys, combina
tion locks are built into the boxes. That surmounts one problem, but what about those students with poor memories? “Let’s see now, what was my combination — 6-6-9, 9-6-6, or 6-9-9?”
Senior Class Awaits January Grads Ball
The final social chapter will be added to the January graduates’ Notre Dame volume, when they gather at the Palais Royale Ballroom two weeks from tonight.
Janet White
To the music of Gene Hull and his orchestra, almost 200 couples will dance into the commencement festivities.
The couples will be headed by the Co-chairmen, Thomas Farley and John Connor, and their dates. Farley will escort Miss Janet White, who is a Sophomore at St. Mary’s College and who comes from Calumet City, Ill. The other Queen will be Miss Ann Gal-laghe., who will be Connor’s date. She is a student at Chicago Teachers College.
Although the ball is especially for the 380 January graduates, the dance is open to all Seniors. Bids, priced at $3.60, are on sale in the Dining Hall during meal hours. The dance will last from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
The committee for the dance, according to Farley and Connor, has decided not to have a definite theme for the Ball. They believe the usual “long thoughts” of graduating seniors are enough to make the evening both an enjoyable and memorable one.
Besides Connoi- and Farley, the various committee heads include James Heaney and James Slattery who are making the arrangements; Gerald Begley who is in charge of decorating the ballroom; Hugh Mulligan who is preparing the program; William K. Kennedy who is making the bid sales; John McShane, in charge of reservations; Joseph Archibald who is handling publicity; and Matt Romano, in charge of managing the business end.
Glee Club to Tour Southwest
Once again, the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke will leave the campus on a concert tour. The songsters this year have arranged concert appearances in the Southwest for their annual between-
semesters traveling jaunt.
So far, the Glee Club has definite singing engagements in St. Louis, Mo., and Kansas City, Mo., with tentative concerts scheduled for several Texas cities.
Last year’s between-term concert tour took the Glee Club to Florida, Alabama, and Mississippi. A traveling squad of about 40 members will journey southward immediately after the examination period.
16
The Scholastic
Holy Year Pilgrimage Needs 80 Students To Make Proposed Summer Trip to Rome
By DON CARBONE
They are: Tour A—$552 visiting Paris, Lourdes, Nice, Florence, Assisi and Rome; Tour B—$521 visiting Paris, Brussels, Turin, Courmayeur (Italian Alps), Aosta and Rome; Tour C—$539 visiting Paris, Munich, Oberammergau, (Continued on Page 20)
Revised plans for the student pilgrimage to Europe next Summer were discussed Monday night at a meeting of those interested in making the tour. Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., and Mr. F. W. Edgerton, of Edgerton’s Travel Service in South Bend, explained details of the trip to the group and answered various questions.
Father Grimm said the group could plan their own itinerary if two plane loads, (approximately 80 students), are certain of making the trip. To date, 76 have tentatively signed for the pilgrimage, although less than half that number attended the meeting.
If able to formulate their own plans, the group will arrange a tour of some 30 days, costing about $600 per person. This includes transportation, food, accommodations, and fees. June 10 was set as the probable day of departure.
Travel by ocean liner was ruled out in favor of air transportation. Thus nearly two weeks of sea voyage would be avoided at an additional expense of only $50.
Railroad journeying in Europe will consist mostly of short hops, and few if any overnight trips by rail will be made. Although train travel is to be third class, Mr. Edgerton explained that this is only “slightly inferior to our coach service.”
Another meeting will be called sometime next week to approve of a suitable itinerary. Fatima, Lourdes, Paris, and especially Rome are certain to be visited, while stops may be arranged at Naples, Switzerland, and the British Isles, and at Oberammergau for the Passion Play. Stopovers in England and Ireland may entail an extra cost of $20.
Anyone desirous of making the pilgrimage who has not yet registered may do so with Father Grimm, prefect of religion.
However, all must be definitely certain of going within a month.
Former plans for a 30-day, $750, scheduled toui- were abandoned when it was learned that a large enough group could arrange its own’ itinerary. If less than the required 80 are able to make the trip, then they may be forced to revert to a prescribed tour. Whether this will be necessary should probably be known by next month.	.
Whatever plans may be decided upon,
those at the meeting were urged to check their life insurance policies—“just in case.”
NFCCS Plans Pilgrimage
A student pilgrimage to the Holy Year in Rome has been announced by the Overseas Service Program of NFCCS. To take place during- July, August and September of this coming Summer, the pilgrimage has been termed “the greatest concrete expression of faith ever manifested by American Catholic collegians.” An estimated 2,000 students from both the secular and non-sectarian universities will journey to Rome for the Holy Year celebrations to take place from August 27 to the 30. On those four days students from every part of the world will meet together in the holy city.
The pilgrimage has been arranged with the cooperation of the International Catholic Travel Committee and will afford American students the most inexpensive European tour being offered this year. Prices range from $524 to $554 and are all inclusive. Five different tours are being offered to the collegians.
Three 'Scholastic1 staffers pose for their last picture before graduating. Left to right are Ray Fitzgerald, sports, Vic Dorr, associate editor, and Buzz Wright, sports editor.
'Scholastic' Staff Juggled As Four Seniors Graduate
Next semester will see several changes on the editorial staff of the. Scholastic. The January graduation ceremonies will take away four present editors and writers.
Joe Herrington, editor, will continue at his post during the next semester with Ken Thoren, associate editor. Vic Dorr, also an associate editor, will graduate and Walt Collins, present news editor wfill be promoted to the vacant position. Jake Janowski will become news editor for the Spring semester.
Feature editor A. J. Scriba is also graduating and Al Laporte will head the feature writers in his place. Ralph “Buzz” Wright, sports editor, will leave his duties to Jack Meaney. Jack Varley will acquire the assistant sports editor slot when Bill' Riley leaves to become a member of Charlie Callahan’s sports publicity staff. Ray Fitzgerald, a stalwart of the Scholastic sports staff is the final member of the magazine to graduate.
Jan. 13, 1950
17
Biggest contribution to the married veterans was the building of Vetville, but 117 units couldn't hold them all.
The Vanishing Veteran
January Graduation Will Take Another Bite Into the Already Dwindling Number of ex-GIs Attending Classes at Notre Dame
GI shoes, mackinaws, OD trousers, flight jackets, pea coats, fatigue caps, and various other items of service raiment still abound at Notre Dame more than four years after the armistice of World War II. But don’t let the costumes fool you. Most of them were handed down from big brothers or picked up at Army-Navy surplus stores. The veteran at ND is near extinction. In the wake of January’s graduation he will compose scarcely 20 per cent of the student body.
The days when the ex-GI was king are gone. Each commencement whittles down his ranks a little more. Now he is dying out like the passenger pigeon and the dodo bird. Kid brothers, younger students, boys in high school during the Great War are taking his place. He is not being pushed out; but he is going, slowly, quietly, almost as if he were never here. He will be forgotten.
Vets Swarm Back
Veterans on campus now are almost as rare as they were in November, 1944, when the first contingent of dischargees enrolled under the newly-enacted GI Bill of Rights. Fifty-four vets signed up
18
By VIC DORR that semester, some six per cent of a class of 936. A “Veterans Bureau” was set up in the University, and the Scholastic that year chronicled the occasion as “the beginning of the return to normal.”
A few semesters later the last of the Marine, V-12 and Navy trainees left the campus entirely to civilian students. Waving his discharge and certificate of eligibility, the veteran made Notre Dame his beachhead. By this time he had swelled his numbers considerably. In November, 1945, ND’s enrollment was 2,061, straining for the pre-war average. Returning veterans comprised 29 per cent of this figure.
In September, 1946, they reached their zenith — 3,328 out of 4,532 students at ND were veterans! GI Joe swept down upon the campus in full force. It was normalcy all right — no wartime service units remained here. But it was a different kind of normalcy.
The vet was a different kind of student. He was, on the average, three years older than the normal college freshman. He had seen hardship, death and destruction first hand. He had taken orders and given them. He had
eaten GI chow until he was sick of it. He was somewhat hardened, a little bit cynical, and eager like a child for normal life again. Affected by these things he was returning to Notre Dame — or coming here for the first time.
Club Formed	,
When his numbers were large enough,	*
one of his first moves was to form a Veterans Club on campus. This he did in 1946, when vet students here numbered 1,590. A high-born organization, the Vets Club of Notre Dame was well-founded and started off with a bang. It opened its first year with a burst of activity: individual letters to each returning veteran; a king-sized smoker to let members become acquainted; a successful off-campus party, and a stu- t dent trip for the ’46 Illinois game. One * of its more successful ventures was a veterans’ retreat, held in cooperation with the Department of Religion.
More than that, in July, 1946, the club drafted a resolution signed by more than 700 ND veterans denouncing the “narrow-minded and short-sighted economic policies pursued in Central Europe” by the occupation powers. Though the petition did not mention the
The Scholastic k
Morgenthau Plan by name, it blasted what veterans thought would be the results of such a policy. The resolution was answered in accord by Michigan’s Senator Arthur Vandenberg and the State Department. Then, in October of the same year, the Vets Club raised its torch again. It drew up another resolution, to the President of the United States, condemning Yugoslavia’s arrest and trial of Archbishop Stepinac and urging the Government to do all in its power “to see that the iniquitous persecution of religion and religious leaders in Yugoslavia be stopped.”
The Vets Club had big ideas—dances, skating parties on St. Mary’s lake, smokers. It was a big, sprawling organization, perhaps too big for its GI breeches. For after 1946, the Golden Year of the Notre Dame Veteran, the Vets Club, like the Arabs, “folded up its tent and silently stole away.” No one could figure exactly why. Perhaps it met too many administrative obstacles; perhaps its 3,000-odd members lacked interest in it. Its members branched out into other activities, other campus clubs, and the Veterans Club was just another-page in campus history.
Vetville Built
But just about the time of this demise another feature of Notre Danie’s veteran chapter was taking firm root—Vetville. After many months of haranguing from the Government, local contractors, utilities, unions, etc., Vetville was ready for its first occupants late in October, 1946, when 12 families took
An old 'Scholastic' cartoon noted that most of the *46 gridders were veterans.
over the first units. Since then all 39 housing units have been completed and Vetville has fanned out into a thriving-community. It has a mayor, councilmen, . and political wards. It has a neat system of student baby sitters for its 117 families, and its close-knit social life is the envy of many campus inhabitants. Its enterprising citizens established their own newspaper, the ‘Vet Gazette and built a rec hall for Vetville social functions.
Midnight trips made studying difficult
Residency at Vetville has always been a problem, at least for students wanting to get in. The list of students — both married and almost married — awaiting entrance to this low-cost housing set-up (327 per month unfurnished, $33 furnished) is as long as a round-trip ticket to Timbuktu. Latest stipulation is that a couple must be parents to fill a vacancy.
Vetville stands alone as an aspect of veteran life at Notre Dame today. Veteran influence has been slowly, steadily on the wane since 1946, when 74 per cent of all students registered here were ex-GI’s. A year later the figure had dropped to 67 per cent. The opening of the school year in 1943 saw only slightly more than 50 per cent veterans in a record-shattering 4,989 enrollment. At mid-year 1949 less than half the students here were veterans.
Even in athletics now the change is noticeable. While 70 per- cent of the 1946 Irish football squad were veterans, less than one-third of this year’s team had any military service. Notre Dame’s 1946 National Champions had 51 veterans on a roster of 73 men. This past year there were but 23 ex-GI’s spread thinly through a field of 71.
Seldom are incoming students veterans any more. They are younger, more carefree perhaps, and easier to control. Soon there will be no need at Notre Dame for an Office of Veterans Affairs, no squawking about late subsistence checks, no VA red tape to flounder through at registration time. Even staid .Vetville will feel the change: when vets’ families are gone graduate students and their families will take over.
The Veteran of World War II has seen his day. More often than not he
is anxious to make up for lost time, to get out on his own. He has had four splendid years and when he goes at last, Notre Dame will then have attained normalcy once more.
Newly Found Bible History Printed in Mediaeval Series
A long-unknown ancient Bible History has been published in the “Publications in Mediaeval Studies” series. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate * School and editor of the series, announced last week that the newly rediscovered history, which is vitally important to the history of Christian origins and of early Jewish thought, will be printed as this year’s volume of the “Publications in Mediaeval Studies.”
The new publication, edited by Professor ’ Guido Kisch of New York City and visiting Professor- of History at the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, is a Jewish Bible history adorned with numerous otherwise unknown legends written shortly after the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A.D., and later accepted and preserved by the Christian Church. Probably contemporary with some of the New Testament writings, the book throws light upon them as well as upon the religious thought of the Jews of the period.
Existence of the history has remained unknown to students for more than 300 years. The originals have been lost since the early Middle Ages, but a 16th century Latin translation was recently discovered by Mr. Howard Goodhart of New York City.
“Publications in Mediaeval Studies” was founded at Notre Dame by Father Moore in 1936, and an annual volume has appeared over the intervening years. Though most of these volumes make available to students mediaeval theological, philosophical and biblical works in critical editions, the series is open to all fields of mediaeval learning.
CLUB PHOTOS FOR DOME
The DOME asks all campus organization presidents who want their club’s picture in the 1950 issue to write to The Activities Editor, c/o Publications Office before Jan. 18 for a photograph appointment.
A fee of $10 must be paid by geographical (city, state, and regional) clubs for their pictures. No cultural, technical, or professional clubs will be charged for their photos.
Jan. 13, 1950
19
Going to the
DANCE?
Special Student Rates
No Deposit for Students
TUXEDOS and FULL DRESS
All sizes: Shorts, Stouts, Regular, Longs, Extra-Longs
Free Alterations for Personal Satisfaction
LOGAN’S
107 North Main Street (Oliver Hotel) South Bend, Indiana
NFCCS Tours
(Continued from Page 17)
Venice, Trento, Florence and Rome; Tour D—$524 visiting Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam for the five day “World Congress of Pax Romana,” Milan and Rome; and Tour E—$554 visiting Zurich, Fribourg for a five week course in the Fribourg University Summer school, Florence and Rome. All tours except E leave New York by boat August 3 and return to New York by boat September 9. Debarkation and embarkation in Europe is through the French port of Le-Havre. Tour E leaves New York by air July 15 and returns by air August 31. The Tour E price does not include the cost of tuition, board and room while attending Summer school; it is estimated that these will add another $185 to the price ($100 tuition and fees, $85 room and board). Optional air transportation is available to all at an additional $50 round trip or $35 one way.
The newly refurnished S.S. Roma has
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigaretteseach.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A The apostrophe in the word ’EM. Phonetically speaking, this sign of omission is found between the “E”s (these) of GIVE ’EM.
R Arthur Godfrey’s signature shown twice in the ad. The only difference is the link between Arthur and Godfrey shown in the lower signature.
Q CHEER. The first, second, third, sixth and seventh letters of CHESTERFIELD spell out the word CHEER.
WINNERS...
WALT MURPHY, 269 Dillon
DICK RYAN, 243 Farley
WM. STUHLDREHER, 255 Farley
DICK TAYLOR, 239 Farley
JOE COLEMAN, 229 Badin
been chartered by ICTC for the trip. For all phases of the tours chaperones will be provided as well as chaplains to conduct religious services on the ship and in Europe. The tours are open to all students as well as faculty and friends and high school graduates of the class of 1950. All requests for information concerning the tours should be addressed to the International Catholic Travel Agency, 39 West 55th St., New York. General information and application blanks can be obtained from Jim Garvin, OSP chairman at Notre Dame.
e
Library to Show Coins
Ths University Library announces that a display of United States Presidential Commemorative medals and rare foreign coins -will be put on exhibit in the main flooi- of the Library for six weeks beginning Jan. 27.
The presidential medal collection is the property of John Thomas Nolan, an off-campus student at the University and is complete from Washington to Truman.

RAY HEDGE, 218 Farley CHUCK LENZ, 120 Alumni JIM BEGLEY, 120 Alumni JACK DETTLING, 274 Dillon BOB FLYNN, 1115 N. St. Peter, South Bend
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Improved Irish to Meet New Basketball Enemy
Irish Look Smooth in Hoosier Classic;
O'Shea, Leslie Provide High Scoring Punch
By BILL DELANEY
ND, John Carroll U. Will Vie in Cleveland
Notre Dame’s basketball team entered last Wednesday’s game with DePaul with a third of the season behind them and an unimpressive looking record of four wins and an equal W number of losses. But the record does not tell the whole story. After the opening win over Creighton, the Krausemen dropped four quick ones to Big Ten competition, three within a week’s time. Since then, with AllAmerican Kevin O’Shea leading the team brilliantly, the Irish have looked more impressive with each subsequent outing.
The team seemed to find itself at the annual Hoosier Classic held at Indianapolis during the Christmas vacation. The Big Four in Indiana college basketball— Notre Dame, Indiana, Butler, and Purdue — met for two days of basketball at its best. ND looked good losing to highly favored Indiana 69-79. Had not Foley and Bagley fouled out early in the second half the result may have been different. The score at the half was 31-43.
began closing the gap and shortly after the 10-minute mark, they were but a basket away. However, they could not go ahead or even draw even and, with the big men out, the Hoosiers again took a comfortable lead which was never again threatened. Jerry Stuteville, sharpshooting senior, was high man for the night with 24 points on six field goals and 12 free throws. O’Shea and Leroy Leslie kept the Irish in the game with 22 and 20 points, respectively.
The amazing teamwork of the night before was carried over and used with great success against Purdue. The final score was 59-41 with Purdue on the short end.. The game was never in doubt as ND gradually doubled the nine-point half-time margin. Everyone seemed to be in on the scoring with three of the Irish hitting double figures. Leslie was high ■with 14 and O’Shea and Don Strasser had 10 each. Purdue went into the game with a four and three record and their high man for the night, Martin Hora, could
By RALPH WRIGHT
The young and ever-improving Notre Dame basketball team meets a new foe and some old friends when it tangles with John Carroll in the feature attraction of the Cleveland Arena doubleheader this evening.
Carroll’s Blue Streaks are tutored by ND’s very popular ex-coach, Elmer Ripley, and their starting center should be George Riley, an elongated fellow who was a candidate for the Irish team during the 1945-46 season.
“Rip” and long George would probably enjoy trouncing their old campus friends and Cleveland cage fans think they have a pretty good chance of doing just that. The fancy-shooting Streaks won five of their first seven engagements. The hiring of Coach Ripley, some extensive publicity and a ragged schedule indicate that John Carroll wants to play bigtime basketball. Their shoving this season -proves they can do it, too.
As the second half started, the Irish
(Continued on Page 32)
ND and Carroll play the second game
Bagley tries for rebound; Leslie (17), Neumayr are other Irish. ND’s Marty O'Connor battles four Butler men under the basket.
Jan. 13, 1950
21
Ripley, Riley and Tedesky
with Baldwin-Wallace and Westminster opening the program.
Tedesky Means Trouble
Carroll’s big gun is a little man, Bobby Tedesky. Exceptionally fast and tricky, Bob’s sharp-shooting enabled him to top Blue Streak scorers the past two seasons. His 277 points in 1947-48 are a school record.
Riley uses his six feet, eight inches for plenty of rebounding. He has a lanky friend named Bob Roper (only 6’7”) who is second only to Tedesky in scoring. These two, Tedesky, Dick Daugherty and Bill Howland will probably start. Little Eddie Doyle, possibly the deadest shot on the squad, is a dangerous spot player.
After the Carroll contest, ND shuffles off to Buffalo where they participate in another- double-header program tomorrow night, this time against Can-isius. The Golden Griffins once again i-ate as one of the East’s better teams and are especially tough to beat at Buffalo.
Michigan State Again
On Jan. 18, next Wednesday, the Irish have a return affair with Michigan State here in the Fieldhouse. The Spartans are a little below par this ■winter, but they get hot every once in awhile. Bill Rapchak is an all-time Spartan great with his accurate one-hand tosses and Rob Robbins did some fancy defensive play here last season. The Green and White could upset the Irish if .Coach Ed Krause’s boys are looking ahead to the next game.
Wildcats on Parade .
The next game in this case would be the Jan. 23 battle with Kentucky’s
amazing Wildcats. Minus such greats as Ralph Beard and Alex Groza, Coach Adolph Rupp’s boys are still right at the top of collegiate basketball. They won seven of their first eight, ran away with the big Sugai- Bowl tourney and were beaten only by St. John’s, considered by many as the best in the country. And the young Wildcats seem to be improving as time goes by.
Returning veterans are Jim Line, the amazingly accurate southpaw, and Dale Barnstable, all-around smoothie. Still, the talk of the team and the talk of the country is Bill Spivey, seven-foot soph center. Rupp says he’ll be unstoppable in two years, but Kentucky foes have found him a tough customer already. Walt Hirsch, another hotrock scorer, and Guy Strong usually handle the other starting positions. Line, who opened the season with a neat 37-point
Dan Bagley
collection against Western Ontario, will demand very close attention because he doesn’t miss too often. No Irishman can get near Spivey without a stepladder so Coach Krause can hope the big boy isn’t hitting.
Irish Hot for Revenge
On Jan. 28, ND goes back to Chicago Stadium to try to avenge that previous loss to Northwestern there. The Wildcats of Coach Dutch Lonberg have looked so good that they are being given an outside chance of coming through with the Big Ten title. Jim Barr and Bob Hughes, co-captains and guards who starred in the first game, have been bothered by injuries, but their replacements, Wally Horvatich and Doug Bielenberg are doing well.
It’s back to Indianapolis on Jan.' 31 for a return game with Butler. An
ND win here will definitely place the Irish right behind Indiana among Hoosier squads. Butler’s home-floor advantage and a healthy Buckshot O’Brien will make this one tougher than Notre Dame’s easy win in the Fieldhouse last week.
The Krausemen first see action next semester when they entertain Marquette here Feb. 4. Scoring star for the Hilltoppers is a Puerto Rican Sophomore named Francis Ramirez. Other stars are Guard Mel Peterson and Forward Sammy Sauceda.
A new series with always-good Loyola begins with a Chicago Stadium encounter on Feb. 7. Coach Tom Haggerty misses the great Jack Kerris at center, but Ralph Klaerich, a small senior, has hit consistently from his guard spot. Ben Bluitt, Ed Earle, Jim Nicholl and Ed Dawson are others who played with last year’s powerhouse and play a lot of ball this year.
O’Shea Improves
Notre Dame’s recent fine showing can be attributed to better team play and the excellent all-around performances by Captain Kevin O’Shea. Leroy Leslie and Don Strasser have looked good all the way and Dan Bagley seems to have found his scoring eye now. Jack Neumayr is another of the talented sophomores who should play a lot from now on.
O’Shea leads Leslie in a close battle for individual scoring honors, but lefty Leroy boasts the best shooting average — he made 39% of his shots from the floor in the first seven games. Center John Foley and Marty O’Connor were the best free throwers at the sevengame mark; Marty had a perfect eight for eight and long John made 13 out of 15.	~
Bill Spivey
22
The Scholastic C
9 Three *48 Champions Retain Hall Mat Titles
Three 1948 interhall wrestling champions successfully defended their titles and five newcomers were crowned champions in the 1949 Interhall Wrestling Championships. The freshmen led the way with four champs while the sophs A contributed three.
In the 137-pound class, Chuck Carlson of Morrissey Hall kept his championship belt by pinning Jim Kish of St. Ed’s in 1:47 of the second period.
C. Paquette of Cavanaugh Hall downed Joe Sergio, of Off-Campus, for the 145-pound title. The time was 1:52 of the first period.
Dick Burke of Badin Hall fell before W. Wuetcher of B-P in a 155-pound go. The time for this was the fastest for the finals —1:16 of the first period.
In an all frosh scrap, Bob Bickert of Farley decisioned Ray Carlin of B-P for the 160-pound crown.
Two champs got together in the 165-pound match. Aaron Dysen stepped down from the 175-pound group, which he won last year, to take on the champ of the 165’s, Ed Smith. Smith gained a close decision in a bruising overtime bout.
E. Falkenstein of Zahm Hall became king of the 175-pound class by decisioning Bob Whalen of Off-Campus in another class affair.
Two more first year’ men battled it out for the 185-pound laurels. P. Vito of St. Ed’s won a clean-cut decision over Joe Conwell of Farley.
Tony Zambroski of Cavanaugh Hall had a hard time hanging onto his heavyweight title but keep it he did. Jack Nusskern from off-campus provided the rugged opposition.
—Jack Meaney
NEXT EIGHT FOR IRISH CAGERS
Jan. 13 John Carroll at Cleveland
14 Canisius at Buffalo
18 Michigan State, here
23 Kentucky, here
28 N’western at Chicago Stadium
31 Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 4 Marquette, here
7 Loyola at Chicago Stadium
BASKETBALL SCORING
(First eight games) avg.
PER
	FG	FT	T	GAME
O’Shea 			 41	32	114	14.3
Leslie 			 37	32	106	13.3
Strasser 			 36	8	80	10.0
Bagley 			 21	15	57	8.1
Foley 			 19	15	52	6.6
Neumayr ...		 11	3	25	5.0
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalpk Wright ■■■■I
Slipping Around
Now that basketball season is in full swing, our wonderful football team is slowly fading out of the limelight. But we’d still like to talk about football a little bit. Or football movies, to be exact.
We’d like to know whatever became of those Southern Methodist movies. And the Michigan State movies. And the North Carolina movies. These were probably the three best games of the year and yet the Student Council hasn’t shown a one of them. The Council undoubtedly isn’t to blame. Someone just hustles the films away before they can get hold of them.
Possibly, a good many students would still like to see the SMU pictures. Will someone please give them to the Council so they can show them? It would be a nice gesture.
They Can Dream, Can’t They
After the fine performance by Oklahoma in the Sugar Bowl, Sooner- fans were howling for another AP poll to determine the national champions. If this current rage for demanding two polls pops up every year, the AP people might just as well wait until after New Year’s Day before taking their final poll.
Of course, Oklahoma wouldn’t have gotten too far in a second football poll. A couple of days after they did all their howling, the AP came out with another poll, this one to determine the team of the year in the entire sports field. Notre Dame won this too, whereas the Sooners finished among the also-rans.
Don’t Cry, Moose
That Irish basketball team sure improved a lot over the holidays. We understand they looked great in the Hoosier Classic at the Butler Fieldhouse. The Krausemen will probably avenge the loss to Northwestern when the two teams meet again on Jan. 28. It’s too bad the boys don’t get another crack at Wisconsin, Iowa and Indiana.
ND can regain a little lost prestige and get some national attention if they defeat Kentucky here on Jan. 23. Adolph Bupp has another terrific team, but it isn’t as good as the one that
came here during the 1947-48 season. And ND beat the Wildcats that year.
Sugar Blues (for Craig Dixon)
Congratulations to Bill Fleming. His hurdling in the big Sugar Bowl track meet was probably the best individual performance of any Notre Dame athlete during the past few months at least. His 13.9 for the high hurdles broke marks set by such all-time track greats as Fred Wolcott and Spec Towns. To win, Bill had to beat Craig Dixon of U.C.L.A. Dixon was on a par with Harrison Dillard late last spring and he ran for the U.S. in the Olympics.
Here’s hoping Bill can maintain his Sugar Bowl form and win the national collegiate high hurdle title next Spring.
Swan Song
This is the so-called Swan Song for this Splinters columnist since the Scholastic won’t be out again until next semester. Being sports editor and writing this column has been fun and we’d like to remember all the people who made the job pleasant.
First, we must thank the Department of Sports Information. Charlie Callahan is said to have the best sports job in the country. Whether this is so or not, it’s a tough job at times and Charlie is still always cooperative; he’s done the Scholastic many favors. So have Harry Monahan and Joe Archibald, Charlie’s right-hand men. Last but not least among publicity people to whom we are indebted is Maura Mills, • Charlie’s secretary. Maura’s been extra-nice and we’ll miss those afternoon visits to Charlie’s office because we won’t see her.
Thanks also to Marge Alexander of the Publications Office; Marge is the belle of the Main Building and makes picking up our mail a real pleasure.
An incomplete list of those to whom we are indebted would include Dale Francis, the Scholastic moderator; Joe Herrington, Ken Thoren and Vic Dorr, our “bosses” on the magazine; friendly and cooperative managers like Don Lueck and Jack Finnegan; and Notre Dame coaches and athletes in general.
Lastly, thanks to our readers. All three of them.
23
Jan. 13, 1950
Hurdle ace Bill Fleming talks with his coaches, Doc Handy, left, and John Smith. Bill broke the Sugar Bowl high hurdles mark in defeating Craig Dixon of U.C.L.A.
Fleming to Represent ND at Capital Meet
Bill Fleming, who won the Sugar Bowl track meet 120-yard high hurdles with a record-breaking 13.9 seconds, will compete in the Washington Evening Star Indoor Meet tomorrow night in the nation’s capital.
Opposing the Notre Dame timber topper probably will be the same field he licked in New Orleans on New Year’s Day —1949 AAU and NCAA champion Craig Dixon and Jim Gehrdes of Penn State among others. World hurdle record holder Harrison Dillard may also show up.
Two ND grads of last year may compete in this meet. They are two-miler Jimmy Murphy and quartermiler Kay Sobota, both of whom are now studying law at Georgetown.
Fleming’s Sugar Bowl performance set a flock of records. Besides breaking the Notre Dame school mark, the race was the fastest ever run in the South and thus naturally erased the old Sugar Bowl standard.
Thirteen and nine-tenths seconds is exceptionally fast time for the 120-yard highs, especially for this season of the year. You can probably count the hurdlers who have broken 14 seconds on the fingers of one hand. The world’s record stood at 13.7 seconds for many years and was lowered to 13.6 by
24
Dillard only the year’ before last.
The secret of Fleming’s fine early season form is that he has never gotten out of shape since last year. Ever since September he has taken four or five easy workouts every week — just enough work to keep his edge.
Bill is also thinking of competing in the Millrose Games, probably the indoor- season’s top meet, which will be held Jan. 28, during the mid-semester vacation.—Ted Prahinski
Demons Ou+roll Irish; PiH Leads Blue Group
The Notre Dame bowling team traveled to Chicago last Saturday to get gently nudged into the loss column by the University of DePaul’s five. The Irish aggregation started very slowly, losting the first two to the DePauls. They came back in the third with Tom Simon, the anchor man, striking out in the last frame to give the South Bend lads a 10-pin advantage at the finish of the game. Notre Dame won the fourth but then dropped the fifth and the match, 3 to 2.
Tom Simon and Chuck Arnold were high for the Irish with an 840 and 834 total pinfall. Bob Stone paced the DePaul five with a 918 total for his five games and had the high game of the day, a 233.
The Inter-American and Pittsburgh
teams are still the leaders in the Notre * Dame Bowling League. There were quite a few changes this week in the individual bowling honors. Jim Shannon established a new all-time three-game high in campus bowling with 615, averaging 205 for the three games. Another all-time campus record was established by B. Jacobs of the Pittsburgh team when he turned in a high single of 249.
Grid Team Loses 23 Men From This Year's Roster
Twenty-three members of the 1949 football team, ten of them regulars, won’t be around next fall.
A list of those departing according to position: left end, Bill Wightkin and Jack Connor; left tackle, Jim Martin, Ed Hudak, Al Zmijewski and Jack Nusskern; left guard, Rod Johnson, Steve Oracko and Jim Dailer; center, Walt Grothaus; right guard, Bob Lally; right tackle, Ralph McGehee and Gus Cifelli; right end, Leon Hart, Ray Es-penan and Doug Waybright; quarterback, Jerry Begley and George Dickson; left half, Frank Spaniel and Ernie Zalejski; right half, Larry Coutre; and fullback, Emil Sitko and Mike Swistowicz.
Indoor Track Sked Features 3 Dual Meets in Field House
The 1950 indoor track schedule has been released and will be as follows subject to the approval of the Athletic board:
Feb. 4 Michigan State Relays at East Lansing
11 Missouri, here
18 Purdue, here
25 Indiana, here	'
Mar. 4 Central Collegiate Champion-
ships at East Lansing
11 Illinois Tech Relays at Chicago
17 K. of C. Meet at Cleveland (outstanding individuals only)
18 Chicago Daily News Meet (individuals only)
25 Purdue Relays at West Lafayette
INTERHALL CAGE FACTS
Ernie Szekely, head man in the interhall basketball league, has asked that all players watch the bulletins to find out when they are scheduled to play.
League play has been hampered to date because the teams haven’t been checking on their playing dates.
The Scholastic
Four Record-Holders Lead Track Squad That Needs Help in Middle Distances
By TED PRAHINSKI
Indoor track gets underway Feb. 4 with the Michigan State Relays up at East Lansing. Notre Dame’s prospects are about as predictable as the Indiana W weather, but a check of the track candidates is encouraging.
Back again are four school recordholders — sprinter Bob Smith, hurdler* Bill Fleming, shotputter Johnny Helwig and pole vaulter Jim Miller.
Graduation hit the squad right where it hurts the most — in the middle distance races. Coach Doc Handy’s hopes for a successful season rest on how well sophomores and juniors can fill £ the vacancies in this vital department that makes or breaks a team.
Opposition Tough
The schedule is rough. Three strong dual meet opponents will be met — Missouri, Purdue and Indiana. Furthermore, the squad will run into some rugged Big Ten competition in the four open meets listed.
Looking at the separate events, Captain Bob Smith is a sprinter who can run with anybody at any distance from 60 yards to a quarter of a“ mile. There’s no proven man to back him up, though! junior Bill Kupfer and a host of sophs look pretty good.
Bill Fleming practically guarantees 15 points in every meet in the hurdles events and the high jump. And he could be used in the sprints, too. John Worthington and Leo McKillip support him capably in the hurdles so these events might be the real point-getters a for ND this year.
The middle distances are the problem. Six monogram men return — Paul Schwetschenau, Jim Bollas, Vai Mus-cato, Bob Boyne, Jerry Johnson and Captain Smith — but indoor open meets are so filled with relay races that Coach Handy will still be short handed. He may find the answer to his problems in juniors Frank Boiler and Paul Ko-mora and sophs Bucky Ewing, Dan Finn, Joe Riley and John Mahar.
A Two Veteran Milers
Jim Kittell and Tony Da Damio are the only veterans in the mile field, but Con Tetrault, George Gross and Lou Lepry bear watching.
The team is really thin in the two-mile run. Ben Almaguer and Bob Fieler looked good in cross country, but neither has any college experience in this event. Jim Kelly has run the race before, but injuries have always slowed him in the past.
• Jan. 13, 1950
There are good men in the field events, but not enough of them. Jim Miller, for example, holds the school pole vault record; however, he’ll be the only vaulter this year. The same holds true in the high jump where Fleming is the lone letterman. Maybe Tom Devine and Dick Viola will come through in this event.
In the broad jump, Worthington and Ray Espenan will gamer a lot of points. Johnny Helwig is one of the best shotputters in the nation and his brother Joe isn’t bad either.
Irish Swordsmen Meet Case Tech Tomorrow
The Notre Dame fencing season will begin this Saturday as Case Institute of Technology invades the Old Gym to match swords with the cavaliers of Herb Melton. The Casemen will be intent on avenging the 21-6 defeat they suffered at the hands of the Irish last year.
The following week Notre Dame entertains again, with Michigan State as the guest. The Spartans 'will be a real test boasting a top-heavy senior squad led by foilman Bill Lavey, who has held down a foil berth on Notre Dame’s all-opponent team for the last two years.
Then on January 28, the Irish fencers take to the road to meet Chicago at Chicago. The following week and
Don Strasser (9) drives in against Iowa
another trip to Chicago, this time to meet the Illinois Institute of Technology. The remainder of the schedule, which has yet to be approved by the Faculty Board of Control for Athletics, will consist of meets with Illinois, Kentucky, Detroit, Northwestern and Cincinnati.
The starting team will consist of Bob Westric, monogram winners Nick Sca-lera and Dan Parisi, with alternates Jim Walsh and Louis Barilla in foil; monogram winners Ralph Dixon, John Vincent and Jerry Dobyns will start in epee with Jay Conlon and Ernie Fraanzgrote serving as alternates. In sabre, Captain Bob Schlosser and monogram-winner Bob Bosler will hold down the first two spots with sophomores Charlie Daschle and Jim Graham battling it out for third spot with tall Paul Gibbons.
Coach Melton says the effectiveness of this year’s team will be determined mainly by how well the sophomores can fill the boots of last year’s graduating seniors.—Jack Varley
Eleven Irish Gridders Star in Holiday Tilts
Lacking one man of fielding a full team in the three Charity games over the holidays, ten Notre Dame gridders contributed more than their share to the football thrills in the Blue-Gray, East-West and North-South games.
Foul- Irish started the North-South game: Bill Wightkin at left end, Walt Grothaus at center, Ralph McGehee at right tackle, and Larry Coutre at right half. On occasion Bob Lally entered the game to make the right side of the line a Notre Dame monopoly. Grothaus was the Irish star of the game as he recovered a South fumble on the southern 24 to set up the second North score. Frank Johnson and Mike Swis-towicz also played for the North.
In the East-West game three Irish, two of them All-Americans, contributed their bit to the East victory. Leon Hart and Jim Martin were the AllAmerican starters, while Frank Spaniel, subbing for Emil Sitko, played a bang-up game at right half. Hart scored the East touchdown that may have been the turning point as he took a pass from quarterback Pete Dorset of Cornell and galloped over the Westerners for 65 yards and a touchdown.
Blue captain Gus Cifelli and Ernie Zalejski rounded out the Trish representation on charity rosters. Cifelli, as captain for the day, and Zalejski, who scored on a long pass of 53 yards, were bulwarks of the Blues in the annual Blue-Gray classic.
25
Christmas Dances
(Continued from Page 14) move back across the country to pick up our reporter in New Jersey for that club’s dance on Wednesday, the 28th of December. Come in, New Jersey.”
“Hello, Bill. This is Dick Byrne speaking from Elizabeth. George Sweet, the chairman, is here somewhere but I can’t find him at the moment. I’m in the Ballroom of the Elizabeth Carteret Hotel in the heart of this city where 90 couples are having a great time dancing to the music of Al Kalla’s orchestra. We understand you’re winging out to Michigan now, so we’ll say so long and best wishes for the New Year.”
“Thank you, Dick and chairman George Sweet. Now we’re beaming oui‘ broadcast from Detroit, Michigan, where Bill Anhut is standing by to give you a brief bit on the Wolverines’ - Christmas Formal.”
“Hi, Bill. We’re speaking to you from the Arabian Room of the Tuller Hotel. There are 140 couples here tonight at this Alumni-Student dance with more men from the University attending than at any previous time. Del Delbridge’s music you can probably hear in the background and the crowd here is really putting that music to good use. We’ll switch off now. Happy New Year.”
“Same to you, Bill, and to all you in Detroit. Now on to Toledo and Ray Martin for the broadcast of the 29th.”
“Hello, all. This is Ray Martin broadcasting from the Ballroom of the Commodore Perry Hotel where 225 couples are dancing to the music of that great orchestra, Jimmy Dorsey. The dance is just about over but nobody has left. It’s really packed. We were on the air for 15 minutes before this hookup on a local station. People in town say that this is the biggest dance of the Christmas season in Toledo. It’s quite an affair and our thanks must go to the Alumni for their help in making this the success that it is. Now back to Bill Bow.”
“From Toledo and Jimmy Dorsey we switch to Erie, Pennsylvania, and a novelty in Christmas dances. Jack Young is waiting ready to describe the doings.”
“Greetings, everyone. The novelty Bill mentioned is that this dance in the Ballroom of the Hotel Lawrence is being jointly sponsored by Notre Dame and Georgetown Clubs. Well over three-fourths of those here — and we have 100 couples — are from Notre Dame. This is the first student managed dance for the Erie Club and it turned out very well all the way
26
Holy Year Prayer by Pope Pius XII
A LMIGHTY and eternal God, with our whole soul we thank Thee for ■r*’ the great gift of the Holy Year. Heavenly Father, Thou Who seest all things, Who searchest and dost guide the hearts of men, make them responsive, in this time of grace and salvation, to the voice of Thy Son.
May the Holy Year be for all men a year of purification and sanctification, of interior life and reparation, the year of the great return and of the great pardon.
Bestow on those, who are suffering persecution for the Faith, Thy spirit of fortitude, to unite them inseparably with Christ and His Church.
Protect, 0 Lord, the Vicar of Thy Son on earth together with all bishops, priests, religious, and all the faithful. Vouchsafe that all, both priests and laity, the young, the mature, and the old, united intimately in thought and affection, may become as a solid rock, against which the fury of Thy enemies will break in vain.
May Thy grace enkindle in all men love for the many unfortunate people, whom poverty and misery reduce to a condition of life unworthy of human beings.
Arouse in the hearts of those who call Thee (Father) a hunger and thirst for social justice and for fraternal charity in deeds and in truth.
“Grant, 0 Lord, peace in our days”—peace to souls, peace to families, peace to our country, peace among nations. May the rainbow of peace cover with the sweep of its serene light the Land sanctified by the life and passion of Thy Divine Son.
God of all consolation! Deep is our misery, grave are our faults, countless our needs. But greater still is our trust in Thee. Conscious of our unworthiness, we lovingly place our lot in Thy hands, uniting our weak prayers to the intercession and the merits of the most glorious Virgin Mary and all the Saints.
Grant to the sick, resignation and health; to young men, the strength that is born of faith; to young girls, the gift of purity; to fathers, prosperity, and holiness for their families; to mothers, success in their mission of rearing theii* children; to orphans, affectionate protection; to the refugees and prisoners, their fatherland, and to all men Thy grace, in preparation and in pledge of the unending happiness of heaven. Amen.
around. Our president, Don Buseck, is ovei- talking to bandmaster Johnny Strong. Sorry you can’t stay, Bill, but Happy New Year- from Erie.”
“Thanks, Jack Young and Don Buseck. That’s it, ladies and gentlemen. From around the East and Midwest we’ve brought you some of the highlights of the many Christmas dances held by Notre Dame men, Alumni and their friends. We hope you’ve enjoyed this long range table hopping, and our congratulations to all of you wherever you may be on your- many successes. Happy New Year from UND’s Director of Horseplay, Bill Bow ...”
Grad School Gives Aids
To Half Its Enrollment
Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School, has -recently announced figures on aids pro- ?
vided by the University for graduate students.
A total of 255 students, more than half of the Graduate School’s enrollment, are currently receiving aids through Fellowships totaling §120,000 for the semester, or nearly a quarter of a million dollars for the schoolyear.
There are 131 students receiving aid through Teaching Fellowships. The teaching fellows assist in the undergraduate departments of their major study.	£
Forty-two students have appointments to do research on government scientific programs on the campus. Also ; six students hold fellowships from the Atomic Energy Commission.
Fourteen students have endowed fellowships, while Foundations and Special Grants provide for eight others. There are also 15 industrial fellowships, most of which are in the department of Chemistry.	j
The Scholastic
Holy Year
(Continued from Page 11)
Year he announced four intentions of the Jubilee and drew an unprecedented reaction from the American press. Roughly, his four objectives were:
1.	The sanctification of souls through prayer and penance and unshakeable fidelity to Christ and the Church.
2.	The establishment of the rights of the Church against her enemies and the conversion of those wandering in error, infidels, and those without God.
3.	The establishment of universal peace among nations and .especially in the Holy Places of Palestine.
4.	The welfare of all who toil and the increase of works of charity on behalf of the needy.
P Less conversation and more delight followed another significant proclamation from Rome: the announcement of the Holy Year Indulgence, a special plenary indulgence available to every Catholic — except Communists and heretics — who goes to Rome or who has a valid reason for not going.
If you go to Rome you need only to visit the four major basilicas (St. Peter’s, St. Paul’s, St. Mary Major’s, and St. John Lateran) and say three k Our Fathers, three Hail Marys, and " three Glory Be to the Fathers, plus one of each for the Holy Father’s intentions, at each basilica. With the regular conditions of confession and Communion, this is good for remission of all the temporal punishment due for sins already forgiven.
Apparently the Pope sees little excuse for anyone not making the pilgrimage. In the Papal Bull proclaiming the Holy Year, he said:
“We appreciate indeed the fact that the journey will not be convenient nor easy for all, especially for those of moderate means and who live in distant lands.
“But after all, if such strenuous efforts can be made to overcome difficulties of every sort when there is a question of the interests of this earthly life, why shall the hope not be cherished that an immense multitude from every corner- of the world, sparing no exertion and daunted by no inconvenience, may flock to this beloved city in quest of the riches of Heaven?”
The expected traffic of pilgrims has already started a battle among airlines. Pan American, T.W.A., and American are slugging it out, with $646 for a 15-day trip the lowest bid so far. For Notre Dame men, Father Richard Grimm is planning a Summer tour as this goes to press.
) Jan. 13, 1950
As said before, however, you don’t have to go to Rome to get the Jubilee Indulgence. If you are too old, in poorhealth, or positively can’t afford to make the trip you are excused.
You can get the indulgence as often as you perform the required prayers and good works. They include a visit on each of 12 days (not necessarily in succession) to a parochial church, and saying there five decades of the Rosary and an Our Father, a Hail Mary, and a Gloria for the intentions of the Holy Father. Again, the usual conditions of confession and Communion apply.
The Holy Year Prayer
Indulgences for the living have been suspended this year, with the exception of six ways you can get an indulgence for yourself: you can receive the indulgence at the moment of death; the indulgence of the 40 hours devotion; the indulgence granted those who accompany the priest giving Holy Communion to the sick; the indulgence for saying the Angelus and the Regina Coeli morning, noon, and evening; and indulgences given by Prelates of the Church.
One more has been added for 1950: the indulgence gained by saying the special Holy Year prayer written by the Pope (prayer is shown in box) — a partial indulgence of seven years each time the prayer is recited and a plenary indulgence for reciting it each day for 30 consecutive days, with confession and Communion.
Indulgences, pilgrimages, conversions, a year of rest and renewal — 1950, in short, holds the richest spiritual opportunities of the current generation. Pope Pius XII recognized this when he said:
“Let the faithful be urged to participate in the Jubilee in the best possible way, whether they come to Rome or remain in their own countries; let them offer more fervent prayers to God, multiply their works of penance and charity and put into practice all that we have already recommended as fitting for the Holy Year.”
Council Dances Open At Palais Next Month
Senior 'Student Councilman Verne Kelley was elected chairman of the new series of Student Council dances by a unanimous vote at the council meeting last Monday night. Kelley said aftei- the meeting that as yet no band had been signed, but that arrangements were going forward.
The first dance, scheduled for Feb. 4,
will be conducted like the fall Victory Dances, but will reveal some new streamlines. For one thing the old system of “lock out” and “lock in” will be tossed aside. Eddie Makar, manager of the Palais, has agreed to sell sevenounce cokes for 10 cents or less and to check coats for 10 cents. Dancing is scheduled to begin at 8 pan. and continue till 11.
Saint Mary’s college has agreed to cooperate, allowing the girls 11:30 permissions. Notre Dame men will have midnights.
Council dances are also scheduled for February 11 and later dates. Announcements will be put up in the halls telling of future council events. Admission is pegged at $1.50 per couple, and no stags will be allowed.
NROTC Frosh Place First In Examinations Last Year
Last year’s Freshman NROTC students ranked first in the nation in a country-wide final exam in Naval Science according to Captain T. F. Con-nelley, Jr., Professor of Naval Science here. The examinations were sent out by the Navy Department to 60 colleges and universities participating in the Naval Reserve program. Notre Dame’s freshman midshipmen achieved the highest average in the country for this test.
Last year’s Navy sophomores ranked fifteenth in the exam standings and the juniors were sixth in the nation. There were no seniors in the program last year.
The highest individual mark in the country was also attained by a member of the freshman group in this test.
LOBUND Given $ 1.674 Grant By Companions of the Forest
A contribution of $1,674 to the cancer research program of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University of Notre Dame has been received by Notre Dame from the Companions of the Forest of America.
The Companions of the Forest of America is an organization devoted to the support of hospital care and protection, old age security, and home environment for orphans.
Mrs. Alma C. Clark, supreme financial secretary of the organization, forwarded the contribution to Notre Dame. The Companions of the Forest, with headquarters in New York City, annually sponsor a fund-raising program for a cancer fund.
27
Names Make News
Compiled by DAN BRENNAN
Dr. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, dean of the Notre Dame College of Science, is chairman of a contest sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society to foster interest among high school seniors in chemistry and the part it plays in our economic, social, and political life. . . .
.Thomas F. Murray, father of Rev. RAYMOND AV. MURRAY, of the University faculty died in Bridgeport, Conn., on Dec. 23. Father Murray was named as co-executor of the estate and a recipient of one-quarter its total . . .
The body of JACK DUFFY, 56, former Notre Dame athlete, was found last month at a railroad crossing in Elkhart, Indiana, after he had apparently been hit by a train. A native of Springvale, Wis., Duffy attended Notre Dame at the time the late KNUTE ROCKNE was a student. Duffy was a leading quarter-miler and relay runner in track and also a member of the football squad . . .
GUS CIFELLI, who was captain of the Blues in the annual Blue-Gray football game in Montgomery, Ala., introduced a program of movies featuring high lights of the Notre Dame 1949 football season for the South Bend Kiwanis club at its meeting in the Hotel LaSalle last week . . .
The marriage of Miss Irene Rose Chikar, of South Bend, and LEO JOSEPH HOFFMAN, also of South Bend, took place last week in Our Lady of Hungary Church, South Bend. . . . Another alumnus has announced his engagement. FRANCIS J. SIERAWSKI, of Ferndale, Mich., is engaged to Miss Rose Frances Serge, of Mishawaka. . . . A senior, JAMES FRITSCH, of Batesville, Ind., will be married to Miss Dolores Jane Lechtanski, of South Bend, on April 15. . . .
Professor JOHN H. SHEEHAN, head of the Depai-tment of Economics, was installed as first vice-president of the Catholic Economic Association, for the year- 1950, at the annual meeting held in New York during the Christmas holidays. Mr. Sheehan delivered a paper entitled “What Is the Function of the Entrepreneur?” at the session on Dec. 27. He also represented the Uni
versity at the American Economic Association meetings and the meetings of the Industrial Relations Research Association while in New York.
Professor FRANK N. M. BROWN, head of the department of aeronautical engineering, spoke and demonstrated his department’s work at a joint meeting of the 9206th volunteer air reserve and the Air Force association in the aeronautical engineering building. . . .
During the past month Dr. VALDEMAR GURIAN published two articles in Commomveal. On Dec. 23 “Stalin: His Seventieth Birthday” was published. Dr. Gurian, chairman of the committee on international relations at the University, has been elected president of the Catholic Historical Association. He had been first vice-president of the association since last January. On Dec. 29 Dr. Gurian presented a
Waldemar Gurian
paper, “Tensions and Controls in the Soviet Union” at the meeting of the American Political Science Association in New York . . .
The Rev. ASZTRIK L. GABRIEL, o.praem., ph.d., gave an address before “The Mediaevalists” in Cincinnati, O., Jan. 11. Father Gabriel, a professor on the staff of The Mediaeval Institute of Notre Dame, spoke on “Mediaeval Student Life.” . . .
Philosophy Professor A. R. CAPO-NIGRI, recent winner of a Fulbright
scholarship for research in Italy, has written a paper for the third InterAmerican Congress of Philosophy which will be held next week at the National University of Mexico, Mexico City. The paper, entitled “Existentialism, Historicism, and the Classical Problems of Philosophy” will be read at the meeting on Monday. Mr. Caponigri has also had an article published in the St. Louis Modern Schoolman. The article, $ “Philosophy in History,” appeared in the January issue of the publication.
Exam Horror
(Continued from Page 9)
10:00, Thurs., Jan. 19—History 11, 12, 21, 22; Civil Engineering 21, 23, 47
1:15, Thurs., Jan. 19—Zoology 15, Chemical Engineering 46	~
3:15, Thurs., Jan, 19—Politics 32
7:45, Thurs., Jan. 19—Religion, 31, 32
8:00, Fri., Jan. 20—Classes taught at
8:00 on MWF
10:00, Fri., Jan. 20—Classes taught at
9:00 on MWF
1:15, Fri., Jan. 20—Classes taught at
1:15 on TTS
3:15, Fri., Jan. 20—Classes taught at
2:15 on TTS
7:45, Fri., Jan. 20—Religion 23
8:00, Sat., Jan. 21—Mathematics 17, 21;
Civil Engineering 32, 45
10:00, Sat., Jan. 21—Engineering Mechanics 26, 33, 33A
1:15, Sat., Jan. 21—Chemistry 23L, 25L,
27L; Civil Engineering 43
3:15, Sat., Jan. 21—All Physics classes
1:15, Sun., Jan. 22—Engineering Me- । chanics 31, 31a
3:15, Sun., Jan. 22—Chemical Engineering 36
7:45, Sun., Jan. 22—Religion 15
8:00, Mon., Jan. 23—Classes taught at
8:00 on TTS
10:00, Mon., Jan. 23—Classes taught at
9:00 on TTS
1:15, Mon., Jan. 23—Civil Engineering
41; Spanish, French, German, 5, 6, 11, 12
3:15, Mon., Jan. 23—Civil Engineering
34, 35; Chemical Engineering 41
8:00, Tues., Jan. 24—Classes taught at
10:00 on MWF
10:00, Tues., Jan. 24—Classes taught at
11:00 on MWF
1:15, Tues., Jan. 24—All Naval Science and Military Science
3:15, Tues., Jan. 24—Classes taught at
3:15 on TTS
8:00, Wed., Jan. 25—Classes taught at
1:15 on MWF
10:00, Wed., Jan. 25—Classes taught at
2:15 on MWF
1:15, Wed., Jan. 25—Classes taught at 3:15 on MWF	i
8:00, Thurs., Jan. 26—Classes taught at s 10:00 on TTS
10:00, Thurs., Jan. 26—Classes taught at 11:00 on TTS	.
—Tom Kelley
The Scholastic ।
f
28
Tentative Plans Set For 7950 Bengal Bouts
Tentative plans are already being being formulated for this year’s Bengal Bouts, according to the recently-appointed promoters, Robert Savage and Richard Cullen.
Subject to the approval of the Vicepresident in Charge of Student Affairs, the dates for the bouts will be March 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18.
The Knights of Columbus are again sponsoring the affair, with the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan acting as General Chairman.
Committee heads lined up at this early date include: Patrick Henry of WND who will handle the programs, including the securing of patrons and advertising; John Celusta who is taking charge of the printing and distribution of 24,000 tickets; William Shanahan who will secure and dispense the concessions; and Harry Monahan who will write and distribute the publicity. The Detail Committee, along with the Award and Banquet Committee, is without a chairman at the present time.
The entire net income of the bouts is donated by the Knights to the Bengal missions. The sum aids in maintaining already-established missionary outposts and helps in the creation of new ones.
The bouts themselves began on a small scale in 1930. Two years later, the Scholastic took over their sponsorship and held it until 1946. By that time they had grown too large to be carried on as a sideline activity by this magazine. They have been promoted by the Knights of Columbus since then, with the attendance hitting a peak of 18,000 last year.
Jan. 13, 1950
Relief Drive Cars
On Show in Drill Hall
There’s a fashion show in the Drill Hall. Now on display are two chic, new 1950 models, latest creations of the automotive world—a Buick Riviera and a Chevrolet convertible. During home basketball tilts, they will be exhibited in the fieldhouse.
Both cars are prizes in the current drive, sponsored by the Student Council through the local NFCCS group, to raise funds for Foreign Student Relief and a Notre Dame Charity Fund.
Of the proceeds from this drive and the annual Mardi Gras Carnival, §10,000 is earmarked for aid to students abroad, while the rest will replace the regular contributions by ND men for various national charities.
The drawing for the cars will take place Feb. 21, the final night of the two-day carnival, in the Drill Hall. To the winner goes the dark-blue and gray Riviera, while the student who sells the winning ticket receives the green and black Chevvy.
Well over §2,000 has been turned in so far, although this is somewhat behind last year’s pace.
Books which have been sold may be returned with the money, and extra books obtained, in the Dining Hall lobby during the dinner hour for the remainder of the semester. All books must be
Some lucky Notre Dame student will own this Chevrolet convertible after the Mardi Gras Carnival on Feb. 20 and 21. The Chevvy is green and has a black canvas top.
sold and returned by Feb. 20 to be eligible for the drawing.
The top ticket-seller will earn a football autographed by the team; the next nine runners-up will receive ND blankets. Already two super-salesmen have sold more than 20 books each and are far ahead of all others.
At a meeting of NFCCS council last night, further plans for the carnival were discussed with representatives of various campus clubs.	‘
International Committee To Give Three Lectures
Three lectures have been scheduled for the Rockne Memorial Lounge by the Committee on International Relations. The lectures, which will take place during the next two weeks, will wind up the committee’s program for the first semester.
Next Monday evening, Dr. F. A. Hermens, professor of Political Science, will speak on “Democracy, Peace, and World Government.” He will be followed, on Wednesday evening, by Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department, who will lecture on “World Government.”
The following week, on Wednesday, Jan. 25, Dr. M. A. Fitzsimons, profes-soi- of History, will finish the series with a talk on “Ideology and Reality in Bi-itish Foreign Policy.”
These lectures will be held at 8 p.m. and are open to students and faculty.
29
Your Future
“The first thing you, as a potential chemical engineer, must do is to decide carefully just what field you want to enter. Before deciding you should consider that the older and more established fields like rubber or ceramics require long periods of apprenticeship during which you must assimilate quickly and thoroughly all the knowledge learned from the painstaking work of previous generations. Even so, in some cases it may take you as long as five years to really learn the field.
“However, in the newer fields like television, there is relatively less to learn, and consequently your apprenticeship will be considerably shorter. Nevertheless this first decision is an extremely important one. Unless you feel strongly inclined toward a particular field, by all means do a little extra reading and take plenty of time in deciding.
“Now let’s suppose that you’ve made up your mind and are looking for a job. Play every angle and every contact that you can. You never know when it’ll pay off. The first thing to do is to join the American Chemical So-ceity (ACS) and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (A.I.Ch.E.). Attend the meetings and take an active part therein. You will meet lots of chemists just like yourself all in varying degrees of success. You will make many invaluable contacts, any one of which may turn into a job some day.
“As soon as you can, file an application with the ACS, which maintains a chemist’s employment clearing house and it is surprisingly effective in finding jobs for young college chemistry graduates, insofar as many firms go directly to the ACS for men rather than look for them on their- own hook. Secondly, do a little research on some potential employers and write letters to their various personnel managers. Thirdly, go through all the technological journals, etc. Track down all those leads until you get that job!
“If you go to work for a big com-
30
Chemical Engineer
By JACK BRADSHAW
pany, your job is, shall we say, more secure, but the competition is keener and your starting salary possibly a little bit lower. In smaller companies, which are more responsive to the fluctuating tide of business booms and depressions, your future may not be quite as secure, but if you have ability you will progress faster and your starting salary will probably be slightly higher.
“In short, if you are outstandingly good and industrious, you may possibly go farther in a smaller company; if you are not-so-outstanding and not-so-indus-trious, as the majority of us are, you
Mr. Harold L. Goebel was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1935 with a B.s. in Chemical Engineering. From then until 1938 he studied under a graduate assistantship in chemistry, obtaining an M.S. in 1936 and a PH.D in Science in 1938. He now resides in South Bend and is Executive Head, Research and Development of Koylon Foam, Ball Band Plant (U. S. Rubber).
will probably do better- in a larger company. In short, you can reasonably expect to start out at $200-?250 per month. However, your salary will increase along with your “know-how” and there’s no reason why, with time, patience and initiative you can’t go right up the ladder into the five-figure salaries.
“When a company hires you, it’s not going to put you in a laboratory, lock you up and throw the key away. Whether you realize it or not that company is training you for particular positions of leadership within its own organization — specific jobs for which you must not only know your stuff but be able to manage other people as well. You must learn to talk, work, write and think along with management as well as labor in the particular terms understandable to each. You must earn,
and not command the respect of labor-through a display of good common sense and consideration for others.
“Thus, your potential leadership ability as shown by your personality and good judgment is very important in your boss’s eyes. During your training period when you are developing from a chemical engineer into a skilled industrial technologist, by all means learn as much as you can about the business end of the company, especially its production and distribution policies.
“Analyze the work you are doing to see just how it will affect the cost economy of the firm. Businesses exist to make money and you, as a future business leader, must realize that fact. If necessary bone up on your engineering economics.
“If you know your material, can learn your job, and can show or develop some leadership ability, then the chances for success are all on your side — for this reason. There are few, J any, competitive industries today, in which raw materials are being changed into manufactured goods, that does not have a place for a good chemical engineer. And that, young men, is where you come in!”
Notre Dame Job Forum To Be Held at DePaul U.
All Notre Dame men, but especially the January, 1950, graduates, are invited to the “Notre Dame Job Forum” to be conducted at DePaul University, 64 E. Lake Street, Chicago, on Wednesday, Feb. 8, at 7:30 p.m.
James E. Sanford, a Notre Dame graduate of 1915, now merchandising manager of the Chicago Sun-Times, will be head counselor for the forum. Assisting him will be Raymond W. Durst, ’26, executive vice-president, Hallicrafters Company, Chicago; Albert A. Kuhle, ’15, regional representative, Bureau of Old Age and Survivors Insurance, Social Security Administration, Chicago; Robert D. “Red” Lonergan, ’43, former business secretary of the ND Club of Chicago, and William R. Dooley, ’26, assistant alumni secretary at Notre Dame.	A
Mr
Designed to aid job-seekers by a guided discussion of their common problems, the monthly job forum at DePaul has been conducted for the past ten years under the direction of Dorothy Dockstader, DePaul placement director. i Every meeting is open to the alumni : and alumnae of all colleges. This year I various “nights” are staffed by counselors from colleges in the Chicago area.
The Scholastic '
PUBLIC LAW 346 VETERANS
P.L. 346 students of the following classifications are requested to call at the Office of Students Accounts as soon as possible.
a)	Students who will complete education at the end of this semester.
b)	Students who want to transfer to another training institution (another university) at the start of the February semester.
c)	Students who will remain at Notre Dame but who will work in some College here (Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering, Law or Commerce) other than the College in which they are presently enrolled.
d)	Students who will complete a course at the end of this semester and who will do graduate or postgraduate work at Notre Dame in the February semester.
New Veterans Administration procedures became effective November 1, 1949. Students in the four classifications above will jeopardize future benefits if they do not call at this office and comply with the requirements.
Office of Students Accounts
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
Lest Kou Forget . . .
T-BONE STEAK DINNER FOR ONLY $1.00 Every Thursday Night. COME IN HAPPY —LEAVE HAPPIER.
415 North Michigan
Phone 3-0903
Harvard Announces Offer Of Business Scholarships
The Harvard University Graduate School of Business has announced the second annual offering of scholarships A under the nation-wide Regional Scholarship program of that institution.
Providing $50,000 in awards to a maximum of 55 men entering the school in September, 1950, the Regional Scholarship program is designed to insure “that well-qualified students without sufficient financial resources will be able to continue their education in the graduate field of business administration.”
The scholarships are presented on a 9 regional basis. The Mid-Western region is provided with 15 scholarships to be distributed among eight states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Applicants for these grants should write to the Committee on Scholarships, Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Mass., for application forms and detailed information. The deadline for applications is April 1.
Jan. 13, 1950
Ellsttwilj's
Arrow White Shirts
Drew _____________________________ 3.65
Dart _____________________________ 3.65
Par (French	cuffs)________________ 3.65
Dale (regular	and French cuffs)____ 4.50
Men's Shop . . . Main Floor
Farley Men Collect $148 in Fund Drive
All the men of Farley Hall joined together before the Christmas vacation and donated $148.40 in a Charity Fund Drive to aid a Philippine parish and a community of French nuns, surpassing their quota of $120.
The Farley Hall president, John Wise, formally presented the check for the
Sway With
Father Murphy and Jack Wise
w AND HIS ORCHESTRA
PLUS
that great laugh-provoking radio show
Sunday, January 15
Advance Tickets $1.69 plus tax
PALAIS ROYALE
BALL ROOM, South Bend
entire amount to Rev. John F. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Public Relations, on Dec. 16. The fund donations will be divided equally between the two beneficiaries.
The Philippine parish was ravaged by Japanese and American bombs during the recent war and the French nursing sisters’ convent was demolished during the British evacuation of Dunkirk.
The collection campaign directors were Tom Field, Ed Duggan and John Roy.
Irish Look Smooth (Continued from Page 21) only connect for nine points. Speaks well for the defense.
The first home contest for the new
For Appointment Phone 3-0678		5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	CYR’S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT 100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
year showed the home fans what they had been waiting to see, a well rounded team with a tight defense and a sharp offense. That’s just what they got when the Krausemen took the floor in
the old fieldhouse against Butler, Jan. 4. The hapless Bulldogs were drubbed to the tune of 54-33. Don Strasser did
an excellent job of guarding high-scoring “Buckshot” O’Brien, holding him to “0” points while they were in the game.
With O’Brien not hitting, his team was able to score only 15 points in the first half and didn’t do much better in the second while the Irish reserves were in. Dan Bagley was a mountain on offense and was high scorer for the night with 18 points, many of them coming on tip-ins. Crockett had 12 for Butler. In all fairness, it must be noted that O’Brien was just recovering from an attack of the flu and was not at his playing best. Gene Kenny broke two fingers in the game and will be out for some time.
Striving to reach the .500 mark, the juiced-up Irish traveled up to East Lansing and took on one of its oldest basketball rivals, Michigan State. The team looked great while defeating the Spartans, 76-65. Again it was O’Shea and Leslie providing the one-two punch in the scoring column, 21 and 19 points, a . Dan Smith tossed in 19 for the Spar- 'A tans who never threatened after the ■ midway mark of the second half.
Yale Professor Delivers Talk on French Dramatist
Dr. Henri Peyre, chairman of the Department of French and possessor of the Sterling Professorship of French at Yale University, spoke last night on “The Drama of Paul Claudel” in the Law auditorium. The lecture was sponsored by the Department of Modern Languages.
Dr. Peyre is a nationally known authority on French literature and an outstanding figure in the modern language field.
Yesterday afternoon Dr. Peyre received students and faculty members in the Rockne Memorial Lounge during £ an informal conference to answer questions about French politics, literature, and culture.
O'Sullivan Addresses Institute
The Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, ; former King’s Counsel of Great Britain, • addressed the Mediaeval Institute last ’ ’
Monday, in the Law Auditorium. The title of his talk was “Common Law and Christian Tradition.”	_
The Scholastic
32
New Skating Rink Awaits Ice
All that the new Notre Dame ice skating rink lacks is some nice cold ice. As soon as it is successfully flooded the playground will be cluttered with pros.
Engineers Prepare ’Technical Review'
Next week will mark the appearance of the January issue of the Technical Review. This is the second issue of the Notre Dame engineering and science quarterly, and Editor W. J. Ruoff promises it will live up to the high standards of the first .edition which appeared last November.
The cover design — done in black, red and white by Robert De Bruler, a junior in the Department of Architecture— is a clever abstraction of scientific symbolism.
The January issue will continue the Technical Review’s policy of presenting articles of interest to engineering and science students by men outside the field of technology. The article, “Education for What?” by Professor Frank O’Malley of the Department of English examines the problems of education in the light of Catholic philosophy as expounded by Jacques Maritain in his Education at the Crossroads. Professor O’Malley emphasizes the real — if not commonly recognized — purpose of our college and university training as well as some wise means of realizing this purpose.
Karl E. Schoenherr, Ji'., a mechan-
ical engineering student, gives a complete explanation of the classic impossible mathematical problem in his article “Squaring the Circle.” He traces the efforts to solve the famous problem from the dawn of recorded history down to the present.
Other feature articles deal with the turbo-jet aircraft engine and the metallurgical problems encountered in its design and the difficulties of maintaining long distance electric transmission lines under severe winter conditions.
Since the appearance of its first issue, the Technical Review has received praise from many quarters, on and off the campus. Many have acclaimed it as one of the finest engineering magazines in the country.
S.A.E. Chooses Officers
The Society of Automotive Engineers met last Monday night to choose new officers. James A. Martin was .elected chairman of the group.
Other officers of the organization that were chosen include David Benete, vice-chairman; Robert Shanhan, secretary-treasurer; and James F. Green, recording secretary.
The S.A.E. will hold their next meeting Feb. 20 and all interested Mechanical and Aero Engineers are invited to attend.
A formal accessories
. . . to rent or sell ...
fitted
formalwear

you can be easily, in-
expensively, dressed in
the latest fashion, cor-
rect formal attire for
every formal event—
without maintaining a
large formal wardrobe!
Next time you plan to
go formal” use our
rental service. Gingiss
Brothers in Chicago fit
the proper suit to your
measurements, send it
out freshly cleaned and
pressed.
Tuxedos . .. $6.50
No Deposit
We will meet any group at any time for their convenience.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Clothiers — Tailors
II5I/2-II7IX2 N. Main St.
(Upstairs)
) Jan. 13, 1950
33
. . . An orchid will make it a special occasion.
We have lovely lavender orchids now for only
£3.75 and £5.00 each
Florist
111 W. Wayne (near Y.M.C.A.)
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
EOR A CAREER
ABROAD...
The American Institute for Foreign Trade offers intensive professional education for international business.
ft Principles and Practices of Foreign Trade. Export-import procedures, finance, accounting, marketing, advertising, international economics, industrial relations
ft Area Studies
Latin America and the Far East
it Modern Languages
Spanish, Portuguese, French
Applications now being accepted for February 1950 semester
AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN TRADE William L Schurz, Acting President Thunderbird Field. Phoenix, Arizona
Roughly Speaking

Hollywood’s Worst
With apologies to our anonymous colleague who writes the Entertainment column up front, we would like to pay “tribute” to some of the products that Hollywood has given South Bend during the past year. Since most of the year’s ten best have already been enumerated throughout the country, we would like to take exception and write about the year’s ten worst. The city in which Notre Dame finds itself placed gets more than its share of these fiascos. Following are our selections:
The Man Who Re-claimed His Head— This epic starred Boris Karloff. The movie moguls must have lost their heads in order to have produced such a horror.
Last of the Wild Horses—The only rewarding feature about this picture was the presumption that it would end the string of mediocre westerns. We were hasty in making this conclusion for several weeks later a sequel turned up called The Return of the Last of the Wild Hoi-ses, followed almost immediately by The Son of the Last of the Wild Horses. That last wild horse seems to have left quite a family in his wake.
Northzcest Outpost — Aging Nelson Eddy and Ilona Massey shared the dubious honors in this gruesome bit of entertainment. It’s too bad the producers didn’t pull a Parks-Jolson switch, having Eddy’s voice emanate from beautiful Ilona Massey’s rosebud lips. Now that would really have been something to sing about!
Jiggs and Maggie in Court — They should have been convicted for the manslaughter they perpetrated upon their audience, but alas, they were acquitted and the series shows every indication of continuing until the comic strip characters appear in a cemetery.
The Kissing Bandit—Some A-l technicolor shots and always good to look at Kathryn Grayson were wasted completely in this trite musical. The idea cf Frankie Sinatra appearing in skintights was about as ludicrous as seeing Betty Grable in a gunny-sack, or worse yet, a hoop skirt.
Siren of Atlantis—This one took the cake. Without a doubt, it was the year’s, the decade’s, the half-century’s, worst. Maria Montez and Pierre Aumont left for Europe after its release and haven’t
returned since. We don’t blame them.
Flamingo Road — Hip-swiveling Joan Crawford trudged through this as if it y was the last lap of a 24-day marathon ' -walking race. The stupid plot was outdone only by more stupid dialogue.
Mother Was a Freshman — Washington Hall was an auditorium of groans the night this was shown. Betty Lynn, playing Loretta Young’s daughter, took the prize for being the most innocuous teen-ager on the screen.
Madame Bovary — Jennifer Jones, clenching her tear-wet handkerchief all the way, helped valiantly to make the f year’s best bore. There wasn’t a damp eye in the house when she finally got wise and lapped up a cupful of arsenic. In fact, there was even a splattering of applause.
Bongo-Bongo, Jungle Boy—The wilds of Africa seem as good a place for propagating orphans as the wild west is for producing wild horses. Some day the chimps (and these jungle characters always have chimps as their best £ friends) will realize that they are better actors than their “human” friends. They’ll decide to star in the picture and that is something worth waiting for.
In winding this up, we wish to add the year’s worst emoters. To Miss Shirley Temple, for the job she did in ruining M. Belvedere Goes To College, we would like to offer a scholarship to a dramatic school—University Theater’ beware! To Mickey Rooney, who did a similar job of botching up Words and Music, we can only wish he might find a job in some service station. And so the year ends. Let’s go to the movies!
To Be Missed
With this issue, the semester’s final Scholastic, several of our co-workers leave our staff upon graduation. On behalf of all the men on the mag, we would £ like to say a few words of farewell to two workers in particular: Vic Dorr and Buzz Wright. We have worked with the present associate editor and sports editor for several years and have been proud of the opportunity of getting to j know them so well. They have given I their time and talents to the school pub- | lication unstintingly. But above all else they were two of the greatest guys we have known at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
34
T
NEW career opportunities for you in the II. S. AIR FORCE as an
OFFICER AND NAVIGATOR
20 and 26%
In this era of long range flights, the role of the navigator has become increasingly important.
The U. S. Air Force now offers new opportunities to young college men between the ages of who are single and can
qualify for such training.	'
If you can meet the high physical and educational standards (at least two years of college), and are selected, you can be among the first to attend the new one-year navigator training course at Ellington Air Force Base near Houston, Texas.
A new class begins each month!
You’ll be an Aviation Cadet! And, you’ll receive the best available training — including 184 hours in the new T-29
- “Flying Classroom.”
Then, graduation! You’ll win your wings as a navigator . . . and a
commission as a Second Lieutenant in the Air Force. After a 30-day leave with pay, you’ll be ready for challenging assignments as navigator with one of the famous commands in the U. S. Air Force. Your office will be the “front ‘ office” of mighty bombers or long-range transports!
Be among the first to win your wings as a U. S. Air Force navigator under the new navigator training program—be a key man on the Air Force team!
Air Force officer procurement teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these career opportunities. Watch for their arrival—or get full details at your nearest Air Force Base, U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D. C.
Jan. 13, 1950
35
*
S Great New BING CROSBY SHOW Every Wednesday over the entire CBS Network—9:30 P.M. E.S.T.
See Chesterfield Contest — Page 20
because
FPS
See Bing in his latest Pict
"RIDING HIGH
A Frank Capra Production ■ Release Paramount Pictu

&«^ToMttoCd -nea
and Don Watson
(<
X
. « • CbilM. *—
Prominent Tobacco Fanner
"Chesterfield is my brand them. Year \n
j
I know what goes into they pay top prices
to get the
after year
best miW, "pe ’obc":M