
the Nocre Some Scholastic AWertisements
* You will be a pleased if your F portrait bears r this stamp
New Studio, i38North Michigan St.
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE
JIMMIE & GOATS
"‘WHERE THE CARS LEAVE"

Kable’s Restaurants
Bend
104-106 N. Michigan St.
- 122 W. Washington Ave.
119 W. Jefferson Bvld.
206 So. Michigan St.
+
1
fJjGRSYINGW
^■BESiCWKS |>8
XELECTROTYP^
*SOUTH BEND.INDMmi
Frank Mayr & Sons
JEWELERS
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices SatirfxctioH Gaaraslmd
DR. J. BURKE & CO., OFTommna aniFManuvactuiino Orncum
“ 230 S. Michigan St
J. J. KREUZBERGER
MERCHANT TAILOR
316 W. Jefferson Blvd
Arnold Building
’’**'^<i.J.-****-s*„

HERR’S BOOK STORE
■ in West Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, IND.
114 B. JcSeraon Blvd.
iOS So. Michigan St.
South Bind, Indiana
The Ellsworth Store
Oft
GEO. WYMAN ft CO
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS \ .
N. V.P. TRUNKS
Made by the makers of **IadcMracto‘* aadadiiag at amoder
GIFTS OF CHARM. BEAUTY. WORTH AND PERMANENCE	<
Clauer’s Jewelry Store
Expert Wutck aad Jewelry RtH*ri»t
1 . ’ <
National Grocer Company
. WHOLESALE GROCERS
^2-t South St. Joseph Street. Sooth Bend, Indiana
“LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"
Pure Drags. . CaretnlCompounding.	Prompt Service
■	:	Always at	1	~
The Eliel Pharmacy
230 W. WadiingtoQ Aye. \ : Emil Reyer. Ph*. G.. Mgr.
Beyers Floral Store
FOR FANCY FLOWERS
Sours Bind. Indiana


&
1*
ichokistic
DISCE-QVASI-SEMPER-VICTVRUSV1VE- QU4SI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LIU.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 4, 1919.
No. 2. -
The Lost Land.
BY ROBERT E. O’HARA, *20.
^LEEPY memory of the past Locked within my spirit, fast.
It seems lost ages since I trod Your dusty streets, your velvet sod, And yet, when twilight turns to blue, I have dream-happiness with you.
I see your roof-tops all aglow . Or laurelled with a wreath of snow; And sun-bespattered tree-clad lanes That turn to rivulets'when it rains, When through the magic of the sun The old creek’s waters golden run.
O how I love each bush and vine That used to. trip these feet of mine! And how I long to meet once more The old friends at the village store. O! may I keep, this happy past Forever, in my heart; locked fast.
Christ, die Teacher.*
BY. REVEREND JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
enlighteneth every man that cometh into the world.”	.	'
The most beautiful thing in all the material universe is light. The first creative words recorded in Genesis were these: “Let there be - light.” In nature, as it commonly appears to us, the one indispensable condition of life is light.. The very warmth of the sun is itself but _ . a form-of light. The gentle rains that bring coolness and refreshment, are but another form of the sun’s activity,—the alternate evaporation -of water through the heat of the sun and precipitation again through the lack.of heat; so that we may fairly say, there could be no life without the sun, no growth and nd fruitfulness. In proportion as any living and growing thing in nature is deprived of light, there sets in disease, decay, the whiteness and weakness of death.
God himself has been called the Light Inaccessible, and though painters, in the attempt to represent the fatherhood of God and His nearness and love, have given him on their canvases . the form of a venerable man, the most satisfy-x ing representation that painters have ever given of God is a stream of blinding light, issuing from some infinite, eternal, inaccessible Star. How
"That was the true light which enlighteneth'every man appropriate then that the eagle genius of Saint that cometh into this world.	. .	‘	...	.
"He was in the world and theuorld was made by Him ■ and the world knew Him not. •	.
"He came unto His own and His own received Him not. - “	,
"But as many as received Him-He'gave them pouter. - to be made the sons of' God. ...	.
: “And the word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us ' -.(.And we saw His glory,, the. glory as it was of the-only - begotten.of the. Father) fM of grace and truth”—John . i,p-i4.	• . ‘	:• "	■
John- should describe the Supreme Teacher of
mankind as the Light of the world, ‘‘that Light; which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world!” _	'	,
Before Christianity,-there had been four great streams of religion, winding between the moun- . tains and among the valleys of the world. There were the large group of mystic and subtle philosophiesof the Orient; there were, the languorous golden dreams of Greek civilization; there was the brisk business-like mythology of old Rome and there wasthepoetic vision, -
I HAVE been invited to speak to you briefly on the subject, of “Christ, the Teacher,” -and naturafly my thought turns to those	.	....
\ words of St.Johnthat describe Him as the ethical sense, the sublime theology of the the Light of the World: ‘‘ the true Light which Jew. Whatever was good in these ancient
delivered at the opeuio, ot the summer
- session, .in-Sacred-. Heart Church, Notre' Dame, on ' tion of God,madeby Himylf, yrhenHe;walked Sunday, June 29,1919. \	. X- <



-Si

<4 <-
18
Noure domeSchokirac
was elaborated through the visions of saints and prophets, dreamers of holy dreams and makers of holy poems, seers and anchorites in the desert or upon the mountain tops as the ages rah on. Whatever was evil or unworthy in these old religions was due to the corruptions exhaling from our fallen human nature; the pathetic conflict of the human will with the divine purpose; the greed and ambition of headstrong and selfish men; the passion of the lascivious; the cruelty of tyrants; the revolt against God in the mind and in the life of the rebellious,—in a word, what Christ Himself * afterwards called the world: “ the concupiscence of the eyes, the concupiscence of the flesh and the pride of life.” Whatever was good in any of these old theologies, whatever was strong, whatever was pure, whatever lifted man up to God, Christ did not destroy, for it was either part of the natural law or a fragment of that earliest revelation made by God Himself in the very morning of the world. There are still priests of these old religions^ there are still philosophers and poets and learned rabbis, who pretend to compare Christianity disadvan-tageously with their own outworn creeds and who declare that the Universal Teacher of mankind added nothing to the world’s knowledge of God, nor to the high moral principles upon which modern civilization has been built. But the Christian apologist is not deceived; he is aware that these are but the last feeble flutter-ings of the human heart in rebellion against “that true Light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.” Julian, the apostate, may be taken as the/Spokesman of them all. “What is the Son of the carpenter doing today?” he asked of a Christian priest, . and'the old priest answered: “He is building your coffin. ” A little later the great Roman Emperor, Julian, himself dying in disgrace and defeat was obliged to cry but in final, faltering accents, “Galilean, Thou hast conquered!” Thus the Son of the caipenter made the coffins and dug the graves and buried the ' moldering remains of all the teachers who went before Him and corrupted the primitive revelations.	.	.	'■■ ■"
If you take the sects which, in the history of . Christianity, have one by one been cut away from the old Mother Church, and if you add together the particular doctrines which each ' particular sect denies, you will find this curious fact: the sum total bfthe denials will be the - - - ' • ~ ‘ - -- ■ — - ’ ? - r .
complete negation of all the tenets of Christianity. Similarly, if you take all the doctrines on which each lays special emphasis and combine them, you will have a complete statement of the entire teaching of Christ. In the same way, if you take tip the excellences of all the great religious traditions before Christ,, you will find all these excellences assembled in Christianity. The Christian religion included every good principle to be found in all other systems of worship. Christ has merely restored them, perfected them and added to them. He took the esoteric aspiration of the oriental, and with the lustral waters of baptism cleansed and converted it into the Christian contemplative, the Christian mystic, the Christian ecstatic; He took the highly organized code of mortification and penance of the ancient monastic systems^of the unchanging East and transformed it into^the penitential discipline and the heroic vows of the Christian religious orders; He took the human sacrifices offered on pagan altars to “the unknown god” and changed them into the sublime self-immolation of the Christian martyrs, before those same pagan altars, in pretest against “the unknown god” and in testimony to His own revelation; He took the old Greek and Roman contempt for human life, which sought refuge in suicide at the first touch of. pain or sorrow and He showed that life is chiefly good though th? oppdrtunity it gives to serve the tine God in patience and labor, in pain and sorrow and mortification; He took the age-old dream of the vestal virgin and made it the common experience of myriads of men and women in the cloister; He took the old mytholb-gies, which sought to give human passions and motives to the gods and .to bring the divine down to the level of man, and He showed that by purifying the thought and action of man, humanity. could be lifted up towards God. That honored matron, who, while other women boasted of^their jewels, pointed to her sons and exclaimed, “These, are my jewels!” was acclaimed as the perfection of pagan motherhood,' but the teachings of Christ and the ideal of the Mother of Christ, have made the mother of the Gracchi seem commonplace among Christian matrons;;. the implacable conscience of that ancient . Brutus, who, as magistrate, ordered his son to be burnt at the stake for treason to old Rome,hasvbeen multiplied and magnified , a hundred times in the courage of Christian
. mbthers/whp bade their sons and daughters go
-J	’

4
Noure Same Schokreck?
19
gladly to' martyrdom rather' than prove traitor to the name of Christ..
And so, too, He has taken the ancient institutions of the old. world and made them into something new and beautiful for mankind. He took the old Roman law and by denying the pagan impulse of vengeance, by preaching universal justice among men and declaring that justice must ever be tempered with mercy, He planted the seeds of all that is best and most admirable in modem legislation. He touched the architecture of old, and lo! the exquisite Greek temples, lifted up by a beauty-loving people to house the altar upon which. ascended the smoke of pagan incense, were transformed into Christian cathedrals in which stand altars wreathed with Consecrated incense offered to the Lamb of God; .the sensual music of the old ritualistic dance was converted into the prayerladen; reverential and awesome music of the Church; sculpture, that aforetime had pictured forth the gods and godesses of lust or strength dancing in beautiful and enticing forms as though instinct with life, now turned her chisel to the production of Christian saints and heroes; painting, that as in Pompeii, ministered to the most degraded and unnatural forms of vice, under the chaste suggestion of Christ, made the canvas radiant with forms of beauty and virtue and holiness; literature, that in ancient.times had so often painted the evil dreams of men as an incitement to passion, eloquence that had so often dealt with the trivial sophistries of
philosophers, poetry that had served the. lowest aims of life,—all these through the touch of Christ became the medium through which the coinage of apostles, the heroism of martyrs, the virtues of saints, beautiful legends, the chaste imaginations of Christian poets, and the thoughts of medieval philosophers and preachers were spread among mankind, and like tinkling ■ church bells, summoned them to remember
God, to adore Him in prayer and to serve Him in virtue. . .	*
x And, perhaps most of all, His influence as a Teacher was felt in that ancient political world, on the outskirts of which He was bom at the moment of its highest organization, its fullest power, its most brutal cruelty. The old govem-' ments claimed that the supreme allegiance, withouC question, without limitation, was. due to the*ate. Imperial Caesar took his place . without protest aihong the gods and demanded
that divine worship be paid to him; Many a
Christian youth and maiden went to martyrdom rather than acknowledge the divinity of the emperor. It was a long and bitter struggle, but again the Galilean triumphed, and the words of Christ,—the basis of all constitutions and all Magna Ctiartas, and every liberty-saving device of Christian government and civilization, — were acknowledged as the true philosophy of patriotism; “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the -things that are God’s. ” Then the world learned that, not the state, but the individual, is the central unit of human life, that the primal end of human life is the salvation of the individual’s soul and not , the theoretical perfection of the state; that the state is organized solely to help the individual to work but the end of life, which is the salvation of his soul; that, therefore, there is a spiritual government, the government of God, as distinct and evident as the government of Caesar, and that as God will never command any violation of the rights of Caesar, so no, fulmination, no restriction, no hindrance, no tyranny of Caesar’s can ever be valid as against God; that if the ordinances of the state conflict with the salvation of souls or the rights of the Divine Creator, then, today, as in the beginning, the Christian priest, the Christian citizen must say to Caesar “it is better to obey God rather than man.”
Hence the truest thing that can be said about whatever is good in the world today is that it is the working out of the teachings of Christ. If
liberty-loving men are permitted to dwell in - peace under liberty-giving governments, they owe this boon to Christ; if the home is sacred, if marriage is. honored, if domestic virtue is practiced, if innocence walks safe in the streets or sleeps at home in security, if honor between states and individuals is recognized as an essential duty, if justice sits enthroned in the judgment chamber, if life and property are protected and the pursuit of happiness recognized as a legitimate. aspiration of all mankind, it is to the teaching of Christ that we owe all of these - things. The world is His school and all mankind
are called to learn of Him.	.	.
It is true that His teachings have never been accepted universally and His discipline never perfectly received and practiced. Even in the ages of deepest, strongest faith there were abuses - in government, abuses in the home,' abuses among men in their dealings with each other, abuses even in the- Church itself^ but all
20
Noure dame Sdiekwrk?
of these things have come from the neglect or anew that, in fact at least, there is no such thing positive denials of His lessons, through the as international morality ; that today, as in the weakness or obstinacy of the human will, - days of Robin Hood, men follow
through which alone the grace* of God can function in this world. From the beginning of
Christianity institutions and men and philosophies and movements, while enjoying here and there a temporary triumph, have failed in the end just in proportion as they rejected Christ, the Teacher, and turned away from His light'
Is it too much to. say that the world today, more than ever before, is at war with Christ? Is. it too much to say that Christ is almost banished from His own civilization? Geographically, Asia, Africa and the islands of the sea are professedly hostile to Christ, except where here and there in some hut in the wilderness, a half-starved lonely missionary keeps alive the light of Christ on the altar of heroic sacrifice. In Europe the vast territory that was once the Russian Empire has been for centuries in schism, and today seems farther than ever removed’ from Christ. A large number of smaller countries are writhing in the agonies of radical thought, their eyes red, their hands and mouths bloody, their judgment turned to. insanity. In what has been the enormous Empires of Germany and Austria, there are chaos, socialism, bitter black despair. In the other countries of Europe where peace seems to be established, and even throughout the vast expanse of .the whole American continent, there is in nearly all cases a heretical power in the ascendancy. And this is true of, not only government itself, but of all other things that go to make up civilization. Particu-, larly during the last fifty years, the vast majority of the universities of the world have been engaged iri~ a .death grapple with Christianity. For a long time scientific men have gone to the extreme limit in the attempt-to prove that science had dethroned Christ. Whatever may be said of past centuries, this at least is true today: a vast’ preponderance of human genius, the material resources of mankind in wealth and power and prestige, the popular prejudices and suspicions, the calumnies of history, the
Here, then, in this noble, Christian tenfple, _ let us begin the work of the Summer School with . the blessings of. the Supreme Teacher; let us seek through love and: imitation of Holy Mary, who most perfectly reflected the light and beauty of her DivineSon, a larger and larger measure -in the lightsomeness of Christ. Here, by a final, dedication of aU our powers to thp Illumination of Christian men and women, through ' knowledge•.and piety, let us do our. full - share	.
toward bringing the world to see the goodness and the beauty of that Divine Light “which _	_	enlighteneth every man that cometh into the
of organized vice, are dia^ra:up alindst sohdly ■.^orld^ v-^ .i?^f	. - f .
pretentious claims of philosophy, the subtle . -persuasiveness of the school, the dynamic
energies of romance and poetry and all forms of -- human-recreation, not to speak of the phalanxes ■
"The good old way, the simple plan, That he may take who has the power
And he may keep who can.’*
Turn where you may and it is impossible, even for optimism itself, to deny that more and more the pressure of the world- is felt against the teachings of Christ, more and more the enormous energies of sin and weakness and ignorance, malice and intellectual pride are organized to quench forever “the Light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.”	.
To the teacher, therefore, and to the student, in a Catholic school like this, comes the brave summons to enthrone Christ more and more strongly in that world from which foolish men would banish Him. It is the. cry of loyalty to the Faith in which we were baptized; therefor? must our faith grow stronger and stronger with the passing of the years. It is the cry of loyalty to our profession as teachers of the \tfuth, and therefore must our knowledge grow, our science deepen, our culture be worthy to win the mastery of the world. Teachers in the school of Christ, we have no right to take an inferior brand of education and label it with the name of the Great Master. To prepare less thoroughly for . our work than might have been possible to us, either as individuals or as communities, is like corruption in a judge or sacrilege in a priest. .We have blazoned on our banners, “Christ, the Teacher .of .Mankind;’’ let the splendor of Christ appear^in our genius, our labors and-our results.	*
: against the CatholicChurch and the power of . \
. Christ. In their dealings with each other, the. > ;He whbmakesnomistakes -Seyer achieves j . nations of the world are daily demonstrating. /successj neither does he who makes too many. '

-OS

*560 Moure fcomeSchoIcwcic
21
Varsity Verse.
The Salmon Industry of the Pacific Coast.
-	Song of the Titan'.
. I have taken all below me,	v
. I know not eaithly peer! ■ Now, to storm the mighty citadel Of Jove without a fear.
. With great thundering hammers Will T smite his lofty throne;
And I’ll rock his massive gates Till dying worlds shall moan.1
And hurl him from, his' seat " That lord of all domain:
Fling him into the darkness, The .unexplored inane.
.1, alone, will rule the cosmos, In every living land, And woe betide the beggared mite That falls beneath my hand.—j. s..m.
BY RALlEGH J. STINE, ’20.
- Tea Dances.
I thought your eyes were very blue, I knew your teeth were pearl, -In fact, I vowed in August you
* Were just the only girl.
. But now it is September, -The summer fancies wane,—
My face you won’t remember And I’ve another jane.—Q. E. d.
-The Beauty of the Graves.
It is the sunset hour in autumn, ' . The sky is crimson in the west, . The golden grove is chill and glowing, The day’s processional is at rest. .
Beside the grove there is a graveyard, . White crosses placed on every mound
Where religious brethren take their slumber, A cloister that is holy ground.	-
In death their states are strangely equal, For earthly things passed like a day; .
The peace of God is now their portion ’ . Which naught shall ever take away.
.In spring their graves jre .wet with showers, ■ And airs of April sweetly blow;	■ -
- Above the. mounds where they are resting
In summer grass and flowers' grow. '
. But not the bloom of spring or summer ' .With all their charm of sight and smell,
It is the pensive days .of autumn / .	.
That give the. graves a subtle spell.
The spreading'glory of the sunset -'	. Floods all the earth with rosy light, .
' Each cross stands reddened in that radiance . • ... Above the graves, till falls the night.—b. a.
■ The salmon industry of the Northwest Pacific Coast supplies the world with one of its most . wholesome foods. It extends from northern California to the Alaska. Salmon are caught principally in Alaska, on Puget Sound, and in the Columbia River. Alaska supplies a large part of the yearly pack, which consists chiefly of sockeye and red salmon. Ori Puget.Sound the sockeye salmon is the most prominent species, although several other kinds are caught. In the Columbia River we do not find the sockeye or. red salmon, but a_ species called the royal Chinnock. This salmon is recognized and known . . to be the best grade in the world. Other species found in the Coluinbia River are the Steelhead and Silversides.
.	The life history of the salmon is unique. Sooner
or later after hatching, the fish come down from the spawning grounds to the sea, where they spend
_ their lives until they are mature. This is a period of from two to four or more years, according to species. Then the spawning instinct drives them back to fresh water and their spawning grounds in the headwater of the streams. Old age conies early with the fish. They enter the streams on their spawning journey in the full vigor and beauty of maturity, fight their way through the rapids and up the waterfalls, and a few months later, having
. spawned, they die. The Pacific salmon differ from those in the Atlantic in that the latter spawn -more than once. Not much is known of the Pacific salmon, but.it has been observed that some species go back to the sea before others. ~ All Pacific Coast salmon used for'canning
' purposes Are caught or taken in seines, gill nets, - or by troll fishermen; Upon delivery of the fish .
. at the cannery, they are first thoroughly cleaned,. then passed through gang knives and cut into proper sized pieces for the cans. The fish are then taken by hand fillers, who carefully fill ” each can, or, as is the process in Alaska, the . fish are fed into filling machines which automatically fill the cans. Empty cans are fed to hand . fillers or filling machines by a conveyor which carries-the cans in a continuous line from the salt table. The contents of each can (pound size) are r pound of fresh salmon and one-sixth of an ounce of refined salt. No other ingredients . are used-. After being filled, the cans are inspected


22	Nome- dame Scholastic
and graded, and are then run through a crimping machine, which completes the first operation of reaming on the tops. They are next run through an exhauster or steam retort to exhaust all air, after- which they pass through another crimping machine which hermetically seals them. The filled cans are then'placed in steam retorts and cooked at a temperature of from 240 to 260 degrees Fahrenheit. Salmon are usually put up in cans of three styles and sizes called one-pound tails, one pound flats, and half-pound flats.
Columbia River spring salmon are packed during a season from May 1st to August 25th, during which period only the Royal Chinook salmon are caught. This species is generally acknowledged to be without an equal in point of quality. This reputation is warranted by the exceptional flavor, fine texture and by the fact that it retains its own oil within the flakes of the fish. There are various grades of salmon and each canning concern has its fancy grade as well as other grades of this delicious fish.
The manner in which salmon are marketed is interesting. The demand for fancy Chinook salmon is such1 that the supply is usually inadequate. Consequently there are few spot sales,—that is, sales from stock on hand. Practically the entire packing is sold during the winter and early spring months; previous to the actual packing of the goods. This is done by the conditional contract termed the S. A. P. This is a contract subject to the buyer’s acceptance of the packer’s opening prices when declared. Prices are usually declared in late June or early July, at which period packing conditions can be anticipated with considerable probability. This form of contract has many advantages for the buyer, the most important being that the buyer may rest assured that his needs are protected; whereas those who do not take advantage of this form of contract but wait until prices are published, take the chance, of the entire packing being sold out under conditional contracts.	.
The market for Fancy Chinook is almost entirely domestic, very little of the grade being exported, except to some extent by second hands, that is, byr jobbers who have made their purchases from the packers. By far the largest market for this grade of salmon is New York City and the jobbing points surrounding that center. These jobbers, however, re-sell their purchases rather generally throughout the Eastern states. There is also a certain amount •	‘	■	.	-	-	.	*•	I
of direct trade on practically all of the markets of the country, particularly Pittsburgh, Chicago, Detroit, St. Pau.1, Minneapolis, St. Louis, and Kansas City. When purchasers are not in position to take an' entire carload of any one grade of salmon, bookings may be entered for an assortment of grades, and consolidated shipment effected when the complete assortment of grades ordered is ready for shipment. For instance, Fancy Chinooks may be shipped with Alaska grades by holding the Chinooks until the latter named grades have been packed, labelled, and are ready for shipment. In this manner the small purchaser can secure an assortment of grades to fill one'carload, to move under carload rates, thus eliminating local freight charges. The prices on Chinook salmon during the 19 season were as follows: One-pound tails, $3.15; One-pound flats, $3.25; half-pound flats, $2.00;
—all per dozen f. o. b., Astoria, Oregon.
All species of the Pacific Coast salmons are canned, all are highly nutritious, and so far as the canned products are concerned, they differ from one another principally in the color and relative firmness of the flesh and the proportions of fats. The Chinook has an.excellent flavor but . generally a red flesh; the sockeye, or red salmon, equals it in flavor and is always red-fleshed; the coho, or medium red salmon, has an excellent flavor but is paler in color; the humpback is still paler and its flesh is softer; and the chum salmon is very pale, soft when canned and its flavor is inferior to that of the other species.^ The best grades of canned salmon are richer than meats in body-building materials and contain about the same^amount of fats. Canned salmon has two and one half as much food value as white bread. In consequence of this is.the increasing demand for all species of salmon, and hence we find large establishments engaged in the catching, packing, and marketing of this commodity. At present the salmon industry is one of the most important factors in the trade of the Pacific Northwest.	1 .
• ' _ ' /— •
.	The Bird of Earth.
The bird of sunset splendidly is dead,. Lone pelican of Earth:. T ■	. •
Yon erstwhile wing of white is dappled red, , ■ As phoenix-like it burns to.its rebirth.
, - Its dowry all of down-like blood-stones there Adorns the.evening west; .'	.	.
. Clinging reluctant to the shrouding air	.
Before it falls upon the parent-breast-—s, m. w.
'5fie Nccre dameSchcbgcic
Home Rule or Independence?
BY THOMAS J. TOBIN, *20. w ___________ _
There are some Americans who believe, or ■ profess. to believer that the present struggle oi Ireland to gain her independence is a sort of national fanfaronade, a movement- the origin of which was fortuitous, the existence of which is ’ transitory, the purpose of which is indefinite. These persons are convinced that the claims of xthe Republican government of Ireland are totally unwarranted by the aspirations of the Iri .i nation, that Ireland, though her leaders demand independence, would be satisfied with a measure of Home Rule. With eighty-seven
per cent of the people of Ireland “Home Rule” is a matter of historical concern, not of present .1 consideration. From 1870 to 1916 “ Home Rule”
and “Ireland” were synonymous. With the memorable rebellion of Easter Week, 1916, Ireland entered upon a new era in her struggle for nationhood, an era which bids fair to terminate-in her complete independence.
. The first Home Rule bill was introduced by Gladstone in 1886. When his measure was defeated in Parliament, the premier went to the country at large, but lost the election by a narrow margin. Not until 1892' did Gladstone dare to introduce a second Home Rule bill. This time it swept through the House of Commons, only to be voted down by the Lords, and Gladstone, old, worn and disgusted, retired to private life. In 1911, Mr. Asquith, pledging the Liberal party to the Irish cause, secured the passage of the Parliament Act, which provided that any bill passed by the House of Commons in three successive annual sessions should, on the third
occasion, receive the'royal assent and become a law. True to his pledges, Mr. Asquith, in 1912, introduced a Home Rule bill which passed its * reading by an overwhelming majority. It was a very modest measure of Home Rule that, the bill proposed for Ireland, it did not even approximate the powers and scope of the Canadian form of government. The English crown reserved the right to nominate the members of the Senate, to decide all questions concerning the army, the navy, foreign relations, coinage, and taxes, to control all trade, and to appoint a lord-lieutenant vested with the power to annul all legislation enacted by the Irish Parliament. Again in 1913 the bill was introduced and passed through the House of Commons, again to be defeated by the
House of Lords. On May 25,1914, when the bill /came up for the third reading and . passed enthusiastically, Mr. Asquith had the power'to end the matter decisively by giving the Lords a month -for consideration and then handing the bill to the King for signature. Instead, Mr. Asquith did nothing until September 18th, when he sent the Home Rull bill to the King, and with it for signiture with the same pen, a suspensory bill, passed in four days, postponing the operation of Home Rule indefinitely..
“Make us responsible for Ireland,” John Redmond had pleaded; “take out every English soldier and we will guarantee you law and order and friendship.” The request, was refused; . garrisons were continued in Ireland, free speech
and the free press were crushed, innocent men and women were thrown into' jail, the right to assemble was denied, and deportations became common. Lloyd George himself said, “ Stupidities which at times looked almost like malignance were perpetrated in Ireland and were beyond belief.” Government, or more correctly, misgovernment, of this sort sped the Irish nation to that tragic Easter Monday of 1916, ‘.‘when”, says George Creel, “a handful of Dublin men pitted themselves against the might of England in one of those futile uprisings that are at once the glory and the despair of Ireland.”
Until the Irish people have absolute control over their own affairs, Ireland will continue to be “the darkest spot on the map of the world.” Until Ireland gains her independence, her government will continue to be what the Earl of Dunra-ven has termed it, “a grotesque anachronism.” Independence and Ireland are one now just as Home Rule and Ireland were one from 1870 to 1916. Now Home Rule is a dead issue. The
Parliamentary Party, powerless in the past to gain for Ireland her rights, is equally impotent now. As Parliamentary agitation could never have secured Catholic Emancipation, Irish Church Disestablishment, and the Land Act, Parliamentary agitation now cannot secure freedom. Ireland wants her freedom—“ Freedom,” says De Valera, “from the rule of the baton and the bayonet, from rifle, from machine guns; freedom from police spies and police perjurers, and from the invasion of their homes without writ or warrant; freedom from murder by British government agents, from government action, from invented crimes and imprisonment without trial, freedom from personal coercion and military law.” .	.

*5fie Nocre dame Sdxfarcic
olastic
DiSCE QUASI-SEMPER-VJCTURUS VIVE- QUASI CRASMORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIIL
OCTOBER 4. *919.	. NO. 2.
Board of Editors.
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes,’20
Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N_Slaggert, ’21
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 James W. Hogan, ’21
Leo F. Ward, ’20
News has just come to this country of the sudden death of Father Thomas F. Price, American missionary to China. The report comes as a shockto those who Father Price, have been following his wonder-Missioner. ful missionary achievements.
_ Father Price was born in North Carolina fifty-eight years ago aqd spent twenty-five years of his priestly life in that state. Within that time he founded the “Truth,”
Catholic paper now widely circulated throughout the country. Later he, with Father Walsh, of Boston, established the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, and from that time until his death Father Price worked whole-heartedly for its development. So intense was his interest in the new organization that he insisted upon . going with the first mission band to China.
In the company of three young priests he made the trip a year ago. The example of such a man should surely be an inspiration to everyone. His was a life totally given up in a spirit of sdf-. sacrifice and devotion to the furtherance of the Faith in foreign lands.—T. c. d.
reasons for this unprecendented demand for education, but perhaps, the chief reason is the conviction resulting from the war that the man who is to get anywhere nowadays must have a carefully trained mind. For many years before the war there were not a few of the practically wise who constantly criticised the colleges as useless or worse than useless. They proclaimed vociferously that the higher institutions of learning were educating to no purpose, that they were unfitting .our youth for the work of the -world. This charge has not been borne out by experience during the war. Increasingly from the beginning to the end of the struggle the college man was in demand; he more than any other was depended upon to do the head work in the tremendous task of seeing the country safely and quickly through the crisis. His response to the call and his performance of the task have superabundantly vindicated the colleges. The critics will ho doubt keep silence for a time on this score. Meanwhile the schools will do their utmost to respond'to the demand that is now being made upon them and to educate the young men of the country as efficiently for the service of peace as they had unwittingly trained them for the trying tasks of the war —j. s. M.
There are two distinct kinds of literature: one is intended merely to amuse, the other to improve the reader. Of the latter kind is the ' best Catholic literature.
The Apostolate of It is regrettable that to Good Reading. many Catholics their own literature is practically
_ Unknown. In order to encourage a taste for good reading a free library, known as the Apostolate of Good-Reading, has been established at Notre Dame. This library is under the direction of Brother Alphonsus, rector of Brownson Hall.: All the students-of the Uni ver-sity are invited to use the books of this Appsto-late Library, in Brownson Hall. It. offers to its readers a large number of books on a variety ' 'of subjects. Catholic fiction is; one of the
Notre _ Dame is experiencing this year the attractive features fulfilling the double purpose largest enrollment of students in her-history. of.recreation and improvement. lt is to.be■ hoped The same seems to be the case with, most of the that the/ Notre Dame students of this year ta ill other , large schools oL the not fail to take advantage of thisuniqueoppor-
* The Demand for country. M the reports tunity of readihgthebestCatholic literature. / Education. be correct, most of the Inve#;£^^t^
colleges and universities are CathOlic library he found and the director of crowded to their limit and in.-several cases the Apostolate Library liopes that the students . far beyond. There, are, 'no; dseveral may berome ap«^es 6f g<M)d rt^^	\


3
'Sfie Hocre dame Schokwric
25

Obituaries.
r’ Dr. George Orf.
News of-the death of Dr. George Orf, father ‘ of Frank Orf, of Carroll Hall, was received at the University within the summer. Dr. Orf was a graduate of the Indianapolis . School of Medicine and had practiced for twelve years - in Indiana Harbor and East Chicago. Foremost in his profession, a leader in dvic activities, and a man of many friends, Dr. Orf will be . greatly missed in his community. Paralysis, consequent upon cerebral .hemorrhages, was the cause of his death. Notre Dame extends her sympathy to Master Frank and his mother in their sorrow.	.
Mrs. Kline; Mr. Muckenthaler.
. The sympathy of Notre Dame is tendered to James Kline of the sophomore dass, in the recent loss of his mother, and. to Joseph Muckenthaler, of the freshman dass of last year, in the loss of his father. Prayers for the deceased are earnestly requested of -the faculty and students.
Local News.
—Lost.—A pocket-book with the Owen McHugh, inside. Finder will return it to Brother Alphonsus.
1
name, please
—Mr. George Schuster (A. B., ’16) has returned to his Altha Mater as a professor in
. English. George’s record as a student was exceptionally brilliant and the University is quite fortunate in securing his services.
‘ —Lieutenant C. N. Hampton, U. S. A. S., and Mr. George McDonald landed near Cartier Field Friday afternoon, September 28th. In flying their large Canadian-Curtis plane from Avron, Canada, to Indianapolis they picked the Dome as an inviting landmark.	-
—The newly-elected officers of Notre Dame
. Council, Knights of Columbus, were installed on Tuesday evening, September 30th, by District Deputy James Hines. Officers and members
Impossible Catherine,” featuring Virginia
_ . _	.	Pearson, was the film offering in. Washington
alike concur in the belief that the Council is . jjap Saturday evening. . A- few instancesbf ? to have a very prosperous year.	artistic photography were the only , notable
. - —The seniors of all the colleges, with , the feature of an otherwise boresome comedy-drama. r exception of the College of Law, met in the The very masculine hero of the play, attempts. . South Room of the /University Library last by “stone-age” methods to subdue.the obstinate
_ •. •’ Sunday morning. The organization of the class Catherine, who .is opposed to “marriage and-;-for the year portends a fitting dimax-for? the other institutions detrimental to/ wman.?
college career of the seniors. Thomas H. Beacom, Jr,, was elected president of the dass, Oscar Sidenfaden, vice-president, Thomas j. Waters, secretary, and Leo L. Ward, treasurer.
. —Ralph Sjoberg, captain of last year’s ball team, has returned to school. ’ Ralph has ; completed his three years of varsity baseball and as a consequence will be ineligible for the nine this year;	- - .	•
—After making an eight-day retreat under the direction of Father George Finnigan, C. S. C., the twenty-five young men from the seminary, who recently entered the Novitiate, will receive - the habit of the Congregation of the Holy Cross to-morrow, the feast of the-Holy Rosary.
—Reverend Fathers Kehoe and Brooks, of . the Holy Cross Congregation, who were lately ordained and'appointed to the Bengal Mission in India, have received their passports and are . how preparing for their departure. They will very likely set sail toward the latter part of this month. . Both are graduates of the University.,
—The Kentuckians held the first meeting . of the Kentucky Club for jhis year last Wednesday night at 7 o’clock in^the south basement of -the Library. Menefee Clements, of Louisville, was elected colonel; Philip Dant, of Louisville, lieutenant-colonel; and Frank Bloemer, of "
- Louisville, treasurer. The club boasts twenty-five members for-the year 1919-20, which is the largest aggregation of men from the “Blue Grass State” that has attended the University.
—An interesting informal meeting was held last Tuesday at noon, in the parlor of the Minims’ hall .where several members. of the Friends of Irish Freedom assembled to greet two visiting Irish clergymen, Father Laurence . Powers of Limerick, and Father Francis Mtdvr- . hill, of Kerry. These two priests, fresh from the scenes of Irdand’s troubles, were able to answer , many questions u pon which the local enthusiasts wished information and to give numerous facts concerning the Irish revolutionary movement. .

26
. $fie Nome dame Scholastic
Although his tactics fail, he finally wins her when he overcomes the bad man of the play. It is sincerely hoped that Notre Dame will be favored / with better* film productions in the future.
I	‘
1	—Notre Dame is to be most highly honored
soon by a visit from His. Eminence, Cardinal Desire Mercier, the Archbishop of Malines, in . Belgium, who won for himself the admiration
of the world by his part in the World War, especially by his memorable Allocutions to the Belgium people in the early years of the struggle. He- is expected to arrive here on Thursday, October 23rd. Preparations are already being made by committees from South Bend, Mishawaka, and Notre Dame to give the eminent Cardinal a reception which, it is believed, will ’ be unsurpassed for enthusiasm and sincerity.
—A. meeting of the officers of the Indiana State Oratorical Association will be held in . Indianapolis next Saturday for the purpose of arranging for the annual contest of the coming year. Mr. Edwin Hunter, of the Law Department, secretary of the Association, will be . Notre Dame’s representative at the meeting. The state contest will be held at Indianapolis in February; the local contest to determine the Notre Dame competitor in the State event will be held without fail in Washington Hall on the 6th of December. The winner in this contest will also be awarded the Breen Medal in Oratory at the next commencement.'
—The junior four-year men held a “get-together” meeting in the South Room of the University Library, Friday night, September 26th. After a few words from Gerald Hoar, the retiring president of the class, and. a financial report read by Secretary Daniel Duffy, the chairman called upon some of the new members. Frank Coughlin, famous as a football star in 1916, and Dave Hayes, whirlwind end on the team of 1917, responded with optimistic prophecies for the coming year. The recruiting of many new men from war service, promises to . infuse a' “peppy” spirit/into the class of 21. The election of officers is scheduled for October 3rd. ,	4
—At the annual ordination ceremony held at Notre Dame in Sacred Heart Church on the 22nd of June last year four young men, all graduates of the University, were raised to the priesthood in. the Congregation xof the Holy Cross by the Right Reverend Hermann Joseph Allerding, Bishop of Fort Wayne. They were
the Reverends Charles J. Flynn, Litt. B., ’14, ; Andrew Schreyer, A. B., ’14, Francis L. Kehoe, i A. B., ’14, and George W. Albertson, Litt. B.,
’14. The newly-ordained celebrated their first solemn Mass in their parish churches as follows: ■ Father Flynn, at Lynn, Massachusetts; Father
Schreyer, at South Bend, Indiana; Father
Kehoe, at Plattville, Wisconsin; and Father Albertson at Kalamazoo, Michigan. To the young priests Notre Dame, extends her most cordial congratulations and wishes them success in their every work.
\l —Eamonn De Valera, President of the Irish Republic, will be at Notre Dame on Wednesday, October 15 th. Word to that effect was given out early in the week by Professor Vincent L. O’Connor, secretary of the South Bend Chapter of the Friends of Irish Freedom. Mr. De Valera will be entertained in South Bend on the 14th by the United Irish Societies of the city and has accepted Father Bums’ invitation to address the students of Notre Dame the next morning. Elaborate preparations are being made at the University by the committees acting for the local branch of the F. O. I. F. for the reception of the distinguished visitor. If the necessary arrangements can be made, the students will be asked to turn out en masse for a parade, and the school’s newly-organized band will be expected to add “tone” to the reception. At noon of the fifteenth, Mr. De Valera will leave for Detroit via Toledo. .	.	,
/—We are to have this evening from Mademoiselle Galli-Curci. the most important vocal concert ever given here. Because of the size-of the crowd that will attend, the spacious University gymnasium is being prepared for the event. Three thousand five hundred seats have already been sold. Her fee of three thousand dollars for die evening’s prbgram is a suggestion of her quality:; and popularity. She is unique in that she has never been taught how to sing, in being the product of no school or professor. Bom twenty-eight years ago of Spanish-Italian parentage in Milan, Italy, she graduated from the Milan conservatory with high honors as a pianist and composer. Mas-cogini heard her play and at his suggestion she added singirig to her accomplishments. After her debuts in Rome and New York she was speedily proclaimed the greatest of sopranos. . She is further remarkable in the accomplishment . of speaking five languages.	J . .


*
27
Personals.
—George Dwyer (student 1913-’14) renewed in law this year. Not content to let the name old acquaintances during a brief visit at the Dorwin disappear from the University roster, he University recently. George spent , sixteen brought a younger brother to take his"place.
months in the service and during the last six months saw active duty.
—William Henry (LL. B.,’16) witnessed the Varsity-Freshman scrimmage last Saturday. Bill returned recently from eighteen months’ service overseas and is now working for the city administration in Chicago.
—Earl Gilfillan, our versatile athlete, returned to school last week and looks to be in splendid condition. In the discus throw at the National A. A. U. Championship meet held recently at " Philadelphia, Pa., Earl ranked next to Arlie Mucks, the winner.
—Paul Fenlon (LL. B., ’19), of Blairsville, Pa., and Walter L. Clemens (LL. B., ’16,), of Spring. field, Ken., were •-visitors at the University last . week. Paul did a little missionary work while home, and as a result his two sisters are now at St. Mary’s for the year..
—The marriage of Miss Pauline Josephine McCarty, of Marion, Ind., to John A. Welch, of Indianapolis, -Ind., was. solemnly celebrated Sept. 9. John was a student here three years ago ■ and the Scholastic offers congratulations in the name of his many friends.
—Rev. Francis T. Moran, D. D., pastor of St. Patrick’s church in Cleveland, visited the University last week as a guest of the president, Very Rev. James'A. Bums, C. S. C. Dr. Moran is one of the leading clergymen of the United* States and was very much impressed with his visit to Notre Dame.
—Rev. Leo Heiser, C. S. C., Rev. Joseph Maguire, C. S. C., and Rev. Julius Nieuwland, , C. S. C., represented the Notre Dame faulty at the Fifth National -Exposition of Chemical Industries held last week in the Coliseum in Chicago. They report many interesting advances in the chemical field. .
—James McGirl, sensational twirler for the Corby Outlaws two years ago, visited the ' University last week on his way to the National Chemical Exposition in Chicago. Jim is now a senior in the Missouri School of Mines and his old friends will be pleased to know that the “ Fil-a-loo”. artist is making good.
—Oscar J. Dorwin(Ph. B., ’17) who won many debating honors for the University in his day,
was a visitor here last week. Oscar was on his way. to Harvard where he completes his studies
:*■
—William M. Moran, Jr. (old student), of Matoon, Ill., recently headed an initiation team which conferred the third degree on a class at Terre Haute, Ind. Mr. Moran is now District Deputy for Illinois in the Knights of Columbus, and is also Assistant Attorney General of the State. He received very commendatory notices in the Terre Haute papers sometime ago for his speech denouncing the Socialist and Bolshevist movements which have threatened the peace ' of the country since the end of the war.. Good work, Bill!
—Father Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former presi- . dent of the University, now professor in English at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., was one of the passengers of the Lawson Air Liner, piloted by Alfred W. Lawson, in a ten-minute flight over the city of Washington last week. In the company were Secretary Baker and Mrs. -Baker; Senators Henderson, McCumber, Stanley, Hoke Smith, McNary, and Johnson; Miss. Betty Baker; Mrs. Baker’s cousin, Miss Elizabeth Freas; Misses Virginia and Emily Johnson, daughters of Senator Johnson, and Lt. A. H. Scott, liaison officer at Bolling Field.
—Mr. Frederick A. Wile, Americancorrespondent for the London Tinies and the Daily Mail, • was the guest of the University last week. Mr. Wile is one of. our best known newspaper correspondents and was stationed in Berlin as an American correspondent during the ten years preceding the outbreak of the war. He is a son of Rabbi Wile, of La Porte, Ind., one of our national Jewish leaders. Rabbi Wile was a very close friend to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., founder of the University and has at all times been interested in the progress of Notre Dame.. Mr. Wile, is an old Notre Dame student and at present is engaged in giving a series of lectures / throughout the United States on “John Bull and America.”
—Captain James J. O’Brien^ C. S'. C.» the last of Notre Dame’s chaplains to be honorably ~ discharged from service, arrived at theUniversity . last week, Father O’Brien has the . distinction . . of having risen to the rank, of captain within a few months without having seen the other . side. - He ' distinguished himself particularly .
*




28
$fie Nocre donteSdidcwdc
during the “flu” epidemic. Strenuous efforts were made by those high in authority to keep Father O’Brien in the army but the distinguished captain was forced to refuse the invitation, as pre-war obligations required his presence in the educational field. Father O’Brien will be remembered by older students as the. popular assistant of Father De Groote at St. Patrick’s parish, South Bend.
Concerning the Death of Captain Campbell.
The many Notre Dame men who cherish fondly the memory of the late “Sergeant” Campbell, as he was known during his years here, will be interested in the following communications concerning his heroic death—a letter from the Captain’s mother to Father Cavanaugh, the official citation of one of his acts of distinguished service, and a letter from one of the members of his command in the First Division of the U. S. A.:
38 Broad St., ' v Woburn, Massachusetts, ’	June 8, 1919.
Dear Father Cavanaugh:
As tiie end of the school-year is near at hand and appreciating the deep affection “Notre Dame” holds for my dear son, Captain George A. Campbell, I feel you will be pleased to learn all the details we have 7 concerning his death..
For a long time we received no information and the anxiety caused us to feel very much depressed. We finally got in touch with Corporal Patrick Slamon, who was attached to Company G of the 18th Infantry and who was sent home on account of wounds. Although he was in another Company and did not know George personally he gave us a good description of his death and from him we obtained the names of several parties with whom George, seemed to be very intimate. . We have written to these different parties and received-but one reply, a copy of which is enclosed. We know the facts contained in the letter to be correct-as they exactly agree'with the story told, by Corporal - Slamon. Of course it may be possible that the other men to whom we have written were , either killed or wounded and hence have not answered; All the other-information we have receivedhas been of an. official nature. -	.	, -
- We have received the Distinguished Service Cross, - and I am enclosing a copy of the citation. You may well appreciate how happy we are to receive it, even though ours is a solemn pride. I believe you will also be interested to learn that George’s personal effects have been recovered, and we are expecting them from
'. day to day.. We are endeavoring to have the remains - returned .to the United States'for burial, but it will ' probably be sometime before tiiat-ean be accomplished. . In conclusion allow; me to, say.. that although our ' . grief has been overwhelming ourgreatest consolation ■='
has been found in your kind expressions of sympathy, and we shall always have an undying love for the University of Notre Dame. Allow me to remain,
Yours very sincerely and respectfully, . Mrs. Anne Campbell.
Headquarters First Division, . .	American Expeditionary Forces, '
:	■ France, 17 October, 1918.
General Orders
(No 69)	'	.	.	.
The Division Commander cites the following officers and men for distinguished conduct during the operations against the St. Mihiel Salient on September 12 and 13, 1918:—	.
Captain George A. Campbell, ' 18th Infantry, “near St. Mihiel, France, September 12/ 1918, displayed extraordinary bravery when, with three men, he proceeded with-his battalion into le Jolie Bois' and captured two machine guns and twenty prisoners, which had been maintaining heavy fire upon our lines.” ' By command of Brigadier General Bamford.
. . “With the American Army of Occupation” '	.	- Siershahn, Germany.
-	March 22, 1919.
Dear Madam: _	‘	'
I am in receipt of 'your letter dated February 5, 1919, relative to the circumstances of the death of the late Captain George A. Campbell, 18th U. S. Infantry, and will say in reply that I. am only too glad to furnish you. with any information available. If I may say so, I was in a .position to know him better than anyone else in the regiment, he being supply officer, and I supply sergeant of the Second Battalion for considerable time during the early days of the war. We were the best of friends through it all and the news of his death was a severe,blow to me. On account of his good work during the. Montdidier-Noypn offensive, April to July, 1918, he was placed' on special duty with Division . Headquarters and- remained at that post until the beginning, of the St. Mihiel offensive, when he was, . at his own request, sent back to the 2nd Battalion of the 18th Infantry, so that he could participate in the attack. He. was placed as second in command of the Battalion and participated actively in the “Drive” that followed on September 12th, 1918: He was to • my knowledge recommended for the decoration of "the distinguished service cross for attacking an enemy machine gun nest with three other men. He. captured -- the machine guns and made prisoners of the Germans. -As events were crowding one on top of another at that time; he was not awarded the medal; but I am sure. ■ that it will be awarded to~ his nearest relative. -
. During the battle of the Argonne,- October 4th to. . nth, 1918,-he was placedin command of the Battalion . that he loved so well,.and you can be assured that he served Us country, faithfully, and heroically until his death. On the morning of October 4th, the battalion
. was ordered to attack. We went.“over the top” at a . ■little after daybreak and fought'hard all day. Our .
. objective wasatownnamed Exermont, and the orders ' -_ were to capture the heights of “Hilla 40’’after taking the town, and-to hold it at all cOsts. Repeated attacks .
-	"1;'V	‘	-'-f-1-'. .	-	-	'
f •,	■ ? * - r	. -	—
-A ’ ~ • --	-*

'5fie Now domeSchokwcic
29
on - the town failed., time after time.. Finally about 4:00 P. M._Captain Campbell with about twenty-five picked men, attacked the town frontally, captured it and advanced on up the hill beyond. He was advancing at the head of his men in the face of terrific machine gun fire over a terrain that was being swept with artillery fire continuously. It seemed that nothing could live through it, but still that little party advanced. ' He sought a narrow path leading to the top of the hill and the minute he set foot on it, he was seen to drop. He had been shot by enfilading fire from enemy machine guns, that was sweeping the side of the hill:
he received six machine gun bullets in the head and three in the chest. He never knew what hit him— and it was better so. He was buried on the spot Where he was killed. It was due to his bravery and fine example that his troops attacked the hill with renewed vigor and took it by storm. He is buried on the -left side of Hill No. 240, about two hundred yards from , the village of " Exermont, ” west of the river Meuse.
As all officers in the battalion were killed or seriously wounded, none of them were present at his burial— only a few of his trusted men, for whom he had given ’ his life. He was accorded a military burial, as far as
( could be done under the circumstances.. .
In reference to his personal effects he had hardly any. It was far different in active service than back, in other zones; an officer had only the .clothing he
-.. could carry with him on the long hard marches. At the time of his death, he had only a few personal papers. These could be of interest only to his relatives; hence they were forwarded to the Central Records Office and you will in time receive them. You must take into consideration that there were so many of our poor comrades who gave their lives for their country that the men in the Records Office are quite overwhelmed with the task of getting in connection with the relatives of the deceased soldiers, and of course things, such as “personal effects” of deceased, must wait until more essential task§ are completed; but rest assured, that you will receive them in time. Since your son’s death, we have moved into the Army of Occupation and the workhere has been very strenu-
- ous, or I would have written to you sooner. A party , outcome of -the two games will provide a rhawry was sent back over the battlefield about, two weeks '	'	’
ago, and .to my certain knowledge the late Captain Campbell was exhumed. A search was made for
some official papers that were thought to'be on his . body at the time of his death, and it was then that I came into possession of the ring which I amsending you by registered mail; it has his name engraved on
' the inside and I am certain that you will appreciate having it. And I assure you that I shall spare no .
effortsto locate any other personal effects he may have had and send them to you. '	’
Hoping -that the little narrative' above may in. a . measure comfort you and his friends, I beg to. remain, . '	. Your most obedient servant, .. •
The battle of battles will, of course,: be the • annual - dash with the Army at West Point, which has become one of the athletic classics .	.	. , .of the country. In her five contests with the
? ..	.	(Signed) Isaac Hm>d, . Army, Notre Danie has won the first,the Hurd,
' >	_	f . uppy rgeant.. ^4 the fifth, -having sw
1st Division, Am^. E. F.	P°mts agamst sixty-five by thecadets.Quotmg
-7PS.-Hewas buried again on the We spot where CoachRockne—“Whilenothing is knownastb he was killed.—I. H. \	.. 7 .. . '	5. .	. the strength of West Point, the hardbattles of
Athletic Notes.
THE SCHEDULE.	.
October 4, Kalamazoo Normal at Notre Dame. .October n. Mount Union at Notre Dame. '
October 18, Nebraska at Lincoln. -	.. J
October 25, Western State. Normal at Notre Dame. November 1, Indiana .at Indianapolis. \ November 8, Army at West Point. - ‘ November 15, Michigan Aggies at Notre Dame. November 22, Purdue at Lafayette^ .	-
November 27, Morningside at Sioux City. .	;
. Notre Dame opens her football schedule here this afternoon in a game with Kalamazoo : Normal. Rockne’s aggregation trounced Coach Young’s men severely two years ago, and, barring the unforeseen, the same result may be expected this time. The game, however, will be interesting in that it will enable, us to form-
- some estimate of our own team. Next Saturday.. . the Mount Union team comes to Cartier Fidd. The quality of the Ohio team is unknown, but it is not likely that it will offer any great diffi- . culty. The Nebraska game, to be staged at Lincoln, promises to be the first headliner„of the season. Coach Schultz’s men have at present ; the edge on the Gold and Blue, having won two -games, tied one, and lost one, of the four contests played thus far. The game means hard work, as ’ the Western boys have a strong and heavy . team in the fidd.	-
. When Notre Dame travds to Indianapolis , on the first of November to play the University of Indiana there will be numerous persons taking notice. The State University plays Minnesota, one of the strongest of the ,Conference teams, on the Saturday before... The '
for comparison between Notre.Dame and the other great western teams. This game will also be a factor in deciding the state champion
ship, and as the teachers’ convention will be in session in the Capital at that time a record attendance should be out for the Hoosiers’
home-coming team. This will bethe firsts'time Notre Damehas met Indiana since 1908.?.
#•£388$
3°
Tafie Norre dame Scholastic
past years indicate a repetition of the ‘Fight!
Fight! Fight!’ of 1917.”	.
Nor can a walkaway be expected when the husky Michigan Aggies come down to Cartier
Field in the middle of November. The Farmers' took home the honors last year for the first time since 1910, but hard work should prevent their doing so this time. An added point of interest is the fact that the agricultural men meet Michigan before We clash with them. Of the two remaining games, the one with Purdue at Lafayette holds the greater interest, inasmuch as it is the second important factor in deciding the State championship. As Indiana does not meet Purdue the games with Notre Dame form the sole basis for estimating the comparative strength of the three teams.
Notre Dame has ever been a serious problem for all comers, and when we consider what she accomplished last year in the face of so many odds, we have reason for abundant confidence in this year’s prospect.—m. j. T.
* * *
Kalamazoo College invades Cartier Field this afternoon. Weather permitting, it is expected that the largest crowd that has ever attended an opening game here will be on the field. The increased attendance of students and the enthusiasm over the prospect for the season insure the presence of every student. Special eSorts have been made to induce the people of South Bend and of the neighboring communities to give us better support.
The home-game schedule this year includes four games that are well deserving of more interest than has been shown in past years. This is the second time in our football history that Kalamazoo furnishes the opening attraction. They come with confidence that they are to give Rockne’s pets a battle that is not expected. In the opening day with the Michigan crew two years ago our warriors went through them for a total of fifty-five points and allowed none. Last year’s game was cancelled because of the epidemic in these parts. Later in the year our
Freshmen journeyed to Kalamazoo to meet the . minutes of play, Mohart with the aid. of. Barry Collegians and received a terrible drubbing, 33 and ^ynn, put the oval over for the first score, to o. Nor were our yearlings cripples at the The'Freshmen fought the attempt hard but the time. The Michiganders kept lip their record veterans were not to be denied. Early in the through the season and at itsclosehadadearclaim* play Brandy failed in an effort to score from the to the college title of Michigan. This year field. “Rock” made several replacements in the3' reports indicate that they are in the field with varsity line and things went a little better. The an deven that is even stronger than that of 1918. second score came ten. minutes later, after long Notre Dame’s experienced line and backfield, end-runs by Barry and a costly fumble picked
however, should have little trouble with the Northerners, but in case of an accident or two the game will doubtless develop into a hard battle if the visitors are to be held scoreless.
The Notre Dame tradition for the last six years demands a victory with no score for the visitors. The kick-off whistle will blow at three o’clock.
* ' * * .
FRESHMAN-VARSITY SCRIMMAGE.
The Yearlings of 1923 for the first time went into action against the Varsity veterans last Saturday afternoon. A similar .scrimmage will be the rule several evenings'each week from now on. The freshmen squad of nearly fifty-five men had been out only five days; they lacked leadership and any sort of hard training, and yet under Coach Miller and his assistant, Dixon, they put up a battle which kept the slow-going varsity on edge every minute through the full hour of play. In anticipation of the first real action of the year the' permanent east stand was filled and the west side of the field was well lined with spectators anxious to give the 1919 material the “once over.” Several visitors from town also came out to see the action.	"
Coach Rockne first sent two squads to the field for drill in signals, kicking, and blocking. Four of his backfield men, Capt. Bahan, Gipp, Bergman, and Fitzpatrick were not out, slight injuries of recent work excusing them. Brandy’s eleven was elecfled to start the fray. The freshmen showed no hesitation at all in forcing the play into varsity territory; from the kickoff they gave the heavier varsity crew a hard battle. Miller’s men were a pleasant surprise. They waded in and for ten minutes kept the advantage even, and had it not been for the injury and loss of Thomas at quarter might have succeeded in putting a score over. Thomas, who was taken 6ut with a dislocated thumb, is the man who led the Kalamazoo attack on one Freshman eleven two years ago. The battle continued, and after eighteen minutes of play the varsity attack prevailed, Mohardt taking the Lail for several sensational gains. After eighteen
Noure dame Schokwric
3i

■ up by Eddie Anderson, who went to the Freshmen’s three-yard line. A line plunge put it over . and a moment later the half closed. -
Coach Miller sent in a new line-up of Freshmen. It was immediately evident that things were going to move faster; O’Hara, Walsh, and Kasper kept the Freshmen moving back into their own ■ territory. Walsh was taken out with an injured knee and Malone entered the fray. Malone’s line plunges and long runs were the feature of the half, and the varsity achieved two inore touchdowns. A period of rest was called again, and Miller sent his first-stringers in once more. .They fought well but were not able to stop the attacks on the wings. One more touchdown was registered before the game was called. In more than . one hour of continuous play the Varsity counted 32 to o against the five-day old Freshmen.
Coach Rockne characterized the scrimmage as “peppery but brainless,” and declared that the Varsity showing was far below what should be expected after two weeks’ work with a squad of which nearly all the. members were experienced players. The line’s charge was slow, and the careless efforts in the early part of the game gave the yearlings several first-downs which they should not have secured! The backfield combinations were nearly up to par, and on defense seemed to meet every play as it hit the line.
Coach Miller was well pleased with the showing of his battling squad. As material for the 1920 regulars nearly every man showed promise and several gave the old-heads trouble. Larson, of
the S. A. T. C. varsity of 1918 was a difficulty worked the wires for a coaching staff that would be the envy of many a college in these days.
in the middle of the Varsity line: his offense work was hard to stop. Lynch’s line-plunging and end-skirting, Coughlin’s and Connoly’s work on -• defense in the backfield, as well as Egan’s, and that of both tackles in the early part, were features. Scott, the South Bend product from Lake Forest College, carried the ball nicely on defense and his tackling was the surest on the field. The rest of the first-year squad fought hard and well. Their work during the weeks to come in whipping the “Rockmen” into shape for the big battles is most important. It looks as if Miller and Dixon have the crew that can furnish the opposition needed.
. *** *
Coach Miller of the Freshmen squad announces that he will make a big cut m his squad early this week in order to get the best material into one class where the work and new plays can be taught. The plays will include favorites from
the Nebraska, Army, Indiana and Purdue repertoires to be used against the Varsity. The Freshman squad numbering fifty will be cut to „ twenty-five. .
Shoulder injuries to Carberry, one of Miller’s best end candidates, will likely keep him out of the game for several weeks. The schedule for the Yearlings is not yet fully completed,* but	:
stands at present with the following dates: Valparaiso University at Valparaiso, Oct. 11; Culver Military Academy at Culver, Oct. 18; M. A. C. Freshmen at Notre Dame, Nov. 8; another game, for Thanksgiving, is pending.
**♦
-	. INTERHALL FOOTBALL.
With the varsity season underway, the Freshman team picked, afid the “Preps” building a team, it remains for the opening of the interhall ' league to complete the football atmosphere that pervades our campus every year. The year 1918 passed without a title being decided on account -of the interference of military duties. In 1917 the Walshites took the honors as the first of their successive string of championships in interhall athletics during that school year. This year’s -schedule should surpass those of previous years in every way. More material, better coaching staffs, and unprecedented enthusiasm mark' the opening efforts. .	»
Badin Hall was first in the field with a prelim- -inary tryout last Sunday under the watchful eye < of McNamara and “Joe” Silk, who will direct destinies this fall. In Walsh, Father Farley has
.‘c-
“ Willie” Coughlin and Grover Malone will, drill the “millionaires* sons.” Over in Corby, Father Haggerty’s championship dreams are fast mate- . tializing with “Joe”,O’Hara as head coach and a wealth of assistants to lend or give advice. -Sorin as usual claims the “dark-horse” place in ' the league. Coach “Hunk” Anderson is in charge, and at present long night drills with the “ghost ball” behind locked doors and drawn shades is the order. Brownson is bidding for . interhall honors with brilliant prospects. “Jake” ~ Kline,, with the aid of Donohue, will direct the ' . shaping of the team. Last but not least are the . Day Students, who are planning an organization within the next few days for the.purpose of -putting a team in the field. Coach-Dorais is ; scheduling the inter-hall games to start Sunday;; October 12th, with two games to be played every Sunday until the title is settled. ~

Now dame ©chdasric
32
- University Bulletin.
RULES REGARDING CLASSES OE COLLEGE STUDENTS.
Two per cent of the bulletin is deducted for each absence from class. Absences are counted from the day the colleges open.
Written excuses for excusable absences, must be given to the professor of the class not later than two days after the absence.
A student who fails to receive a passing grade on account of excusable absence will be given sufficient extra work to enable him to obtain a grade of 70%.	-
A	*
Parents or guardians will be notified when there is frequent absence from class or delinquency in class work.
A student who fails notably, through lack of application, in two successive quarterly examinations will be required to withdraw from the University. After the first failure parents or guardians will be notified.
New students in the various colleges will be rated as special students until their credits will have been received and accepted.	'
The collegiate classes in Christian Doctrine will be organized within the coming week.
DISCIPLINE.
By request of the Prefect of Discipline, students are to use in traversing the campus the walks already laid out. The beauty of the quadrangle was seriously damaged last fall during the S. A. T. C., and the University is desirous of repairing the damage as soon as possible. *
Students are also requested to refrain from loud and boisterous talking, and likewise from running and other out-of-door sports in the classroom halls.	’
academic contests.
The Breen contest in oratory for this year will be held on the 6th of December, and there will be no postponement of the date. All college students are eligible.
The literary essays to be submitted by seniors in the contest for the Meehan Gold Medal will be due about the middle of the year, instead of in Maykas formerly.	,
.	, Safety Valve.
The man who toots the Safety Valve
Is still among the missing;
, But we have tried his job-to-day In spite of all the hissing.
We do not know when he’ll return—
He has alfalfa fever—
But we will tie the Valve down tight, And then go way and leave ’er.
♦ ** • ’
"Mr. Moore, is there anything in this world that can make you completely happy?” queries the philosophy teacher.
“Well—Yes, Father—”	,
Chorusfrom the class: “ What’s her name and address?”
***	.
Cam O’Flage, special correspondent for the Valve, having recently disguised himself as a goal post overheard the following dialogue:
“How much do you weigh, Trafton?”
“Aw, who wants to know?”
“Rockne does.”	.
“Well I weigh a hundred and ninety.”
“Thanks.” And Pierson about faces.
“What does Rock want to know for?”
“Oh, he wants to be sure and make the bench strong enough.” •
Cam left with Trafton. We understand, however, that Cartier Field is going to support several marble-topped benches this year.	:
■ **♦ '
It, is rumored that ten aspiring students are in the infirmary recovering from injuries sustained in- the rush for a bill-of-studies. As Rupert Hughes once remarked, “What is this world coming to?” ’
' ♦**
A Badinite reports that while. Fording this summer he saw numerous signs reading: “Detour Here.” He looked everywhere but couldn’t find it, although the sign said Detour was there. We should have known better, for Detour is at N. D. via the window and the fire-escape.
. ***
The Angel’s Playground.
Way down "South in Hoosier viyage	.
There the students go for thrillage. -
There to pass away the hours
With dam’zels sweet and fair as flowers. -There the boys all think it schooling -To spend their time and money pooling.
But none go down when pers are nillage—
' . Forbidden ground is South Bend village. . '
Excited Chem. Prof.—“What is that substance floating on the top of your solution? ”	-
“Why er-er-Iron?”
. “No, no! Why.man, use your eyes! Look, it floats! What is it?”	.
' “Ivory soap?”	-
See obituary column for further particulars.
. ' ♦** ' ' -
“No, dear, Mr. Ambrose isn’t Abe Kabbible.” (But we have dur doots, just the same.)—P. S.	■
V ,
Che Moure Same Scholastic AiCeptisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
, BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - - $i.oo Each additional passenger, - - -	.50 .
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00
Each additional Trunk, ----- .50
Suit Case, - -- -- -- -	.25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL
BAKE SHOP barb'er SHOP HAIR DRESSING AND
MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M.
. if desired.
Introducing to you a new collar
BARRACKS
designed for com* fort and style.
'.Now on sale.
Auditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
l ■
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the -theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
9
SOLD BI
MAX ADLER CO. SOUTH BEND, IND.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manaftr
.J
the Noupe Same 5cholas^ic AdCerUisemenEs
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana
(Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Ib»ub FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowbst Makkbt Ratmb and Lettbrs op Crbdit Payable Throughout thb World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques .
Mechanics Tools	Draughtman’s-Tools
G.	E. Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard
(Opposite Poetoffice)
Fine Cutlery	South Bbnd, Ind.
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
Soad.BM4.Ud.

Base Ball Equipment UNIFORMS. CAPS. BELTS -STOCKINGS. SHOES. BATS, BALLS. GLOVES, MASKS. ETC. x
Catalogue on Request
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
an STATE STREET, CHICAGO
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit”	.
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your pack- . ages at the
Notre Dame News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining ' 72 Madison Ave., Nev York CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
MHmmDmHM	Hmm Hmm 2M2	mm
Schuler,. Klingel & Cd. Wholesale Fruits and Produce 4U-4CB SmtHi St. Jawph St, SMith BmmI, IhSImm
•MME •VTIBACH.Mmmpm .	.
Gtizens National Bank. and Trust Co. •
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd. . South Bend, Ind.
theHoure &ume Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT'
Telephone Bell 52 N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	,	,
and Washington Ave.	South 13end, Ind.
. -.-— - - - - - — - ■ - - ~
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H.	E. GROSS & SON. Props.
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend Home Phone 6183
<	.--.4.
f Home Phone, 5789	Res Bell 1162
OFFICE j BeU phonet 689
DR. R. F. LUCAS
’	DENTIST
611-612 J. M. S. Bldg.
Cor. Main St. and Wash, Ave. • South Bend, Ind.
4*
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
Office: ' PHONES Residence: Bell '886. Home, 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. 511, Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
STU DENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965
DR. F. W. VAUGHN SURGEON DENTIST . and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
————— ———- - ——	------4*
“WALK-OVERS”
THE STUDENT’S SHOE ' walk-over BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St.
Bell Phone 581
Home Phone 2451
Will call al University by appointment
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, 222 S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
♦———- -	- - - —4.
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in I Northern Indiana, and the-most skillful workmen, we are- I prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.	1
L P. HARDY CO. I
417-423 S. St. Joseph St.	South Bend, Indiana |
4———4
——4.
KI ingel & Kuehn	I
SHOES OF QUALITY	|
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg. |
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	I
4 ■ .........................»
< ■ ■ - -——■- - - - - ■ ■■ ■ ■ „■ ■
Baker’s Shoes
’’FOR MEN WHO CARE”
EXCLUSIVE IN STYLE PERFECT IN FIT 114 W., Washington, Ave. South Bend, Indiana <------------_--------------
<■	■ ■■ —- ■- ■ - -—4.
Tls 1 at Reasonable Prices. Special attention 1 given to students. Branch Repair Shop, I
*****7 St Edward HbU> Notre Dame.	1
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck I
109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bend, Indiana I
4.. -	■ .. — , , „..4,
I THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
I	. By CHRISTIAN REID
I	362 pp.- Price $125
| THE AVE MARIA . NOTRE DAME, IND.
4—————- ■ - - >
