IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT A TOUCHY SUBJECT
Real touchy. Touchier than what may have occurred to you, even. It’s the problem of How To Get A Job, and it’s touchy because nobody in the history of employment has ever figured out a solid, cut and dried formula that anyone else would agree on. The truth is that often there isn’t any formula, because you can’t measure many important qualities by a slide rule, and even experienced employers admit they have to rely on their own impressions to guide them.
And mister, whatever you do, don’t underestimate the power of your appearance when it comes to making a first impression. The way
you take care of your appearance indicates how you’ll take care of other things. We sell hats. We know hats make you look better. We know, because we’ve taken the trouble to find out, that bosses want their junior executives to wear hats. And while your hat is only one part of your appearance, it’s as important as anything else you wear. So when you hit the road for your first job, dress to make that good first impression.
Incidentally, even if you never get a job, that hat will be a good friend. It protects your head, and that means protection for your hair and your health.
"Wear a Hat—Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!Z
Divisions of Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
New "convertible” styled
to warm up COOL dolls
Dress-n-play shirt $3.95
If your smiles-per-gal is low, you’ll improve your operating efficiency in a Manhattan DRESS-N-PLAY. This fully convertible collar is equally handsome with or without a tie. And smooth Manhattan styling means it’s loaded with pick-up power. Choice of fabrics in white or colors . . . regular DRESS-N-PLAY or spread DRESS-N-PLAY collar. Stop in at your Manhattan men’s shop—see many more most-for-your-money values in distinctive menswear.
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951
By M. A. Fitzsimons. The first serious account of Labour's foreign policy aspirations and performance, it graphically describes Britain’s difficult position as a nation that is no longer a world power but which still has world-wide interests. Against this background the volume analyzes the ambiguity in Britain’s espousal of European union, the differing American and British policies toward China, and Britain’s successes and failures in coming to terms with Asian nationalism.	$3.25
Pan-Slavism:
Its History and Ideology
By Hans Kohn. The fascinating story of Slav nationalism, from its beginning after the Napoleonic wars to its climax in and after World War If, is told here for the first time in English. All the problems which the West faces today with Russia and its Slav satellites emerge in this book as issues with a long past in cultural traditions and national attitudes. $6.25
Soviet Imperialism:
Its Origins and Tactics
Edited by Waldemar Gurian. This basic survey deals with the central questions of Russian expansionism: Who is the enemy—Russian imperialism or Soviet Communism? What are the relations between the aggressive tactics of the U.S.S.R. and traditional Russian policy? Should the United States encourage national liberation movements among the non-Russian groups in the Soviet Union or should it limit itself to the fight against Soviet Communism? May 29 $3.75
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Volume V
Edited by Edward F. Barrett. The Natural Law Institute of Notre Dame has spearheaded the movement to restore the moral foundations of American law by a return to the Natural Law principles with which it began. The fifth volume of the Proceedings shows that a Natural Law tradition exists in all the great nen-Chris-tian religions—Jewish. Hindu, Moslem, Confucian, and Buddhist.	$2.00
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest
By Mary Harrita Fox. The biography of a dynamic personality, and a significant contribution to the social history of die Catholic Church and to the evolution of the American labor movement. Father Dietz was the key figure in the American Catholic social movement during the first quarter of the century. With a few contemporaries, notably Monsignor John A. Ryan, he channeled the Catholic labor movement into its modern course. June $4.75
On Sale at the Bookstore
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS Notre Dame, Indiana
May 22, 1953
3
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcar and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
Blood Committee Says ‘Thanks'
Editor:
■■ ENGINE UNO MRFIANE CORPORATION
I AIRCHILD ^liwiaADwuam
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-ofseason clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn't have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years past have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Comer across the River
On the Bus Line
People all over the U. S. have been extending their heartfelt congratulations to the men of Notre Dame for the overwhelming success of their current blood drive.
We of the Blood Drive committee would like to reiterate these sentiments, because we, above all, realize that the motivating factor behind this success was the indomitable spirit of self-sacrifice so typical of ND men.
The president of the Red Cross, Mr. E. Roland Harriman, along with our own president, Father Hesburgh, has expressed his personal feeling of gratitude to the students for their magnanimous response to this worthy appeal.
Nothing we could ever say would adequately express the credit due to the men of Notre Dame, but the real gratitude lies in the hearts and minds of the men who will ultimately receive that blood.
We know we speak for these men when we extend to the student body of Notre Dame a sincere “thank you” for a job well done. The students’ willingness to cooperate in the realization of a common cause surpassed even the highest ideals of Notre Dame' men.
Sincerely,
Blood Drive Committee
■
Editor:
The American Red Cross and the entire Student Body of Notre Dame owes a great deal of gratitude to you and your fine staff. The great deed which you and they rendered so willingly, even though at times the work seemed fruitless, proved to be one of the major factors in the success of the current blood drive here on campus.
Would you therefore convey the thanks of the committee to your staff. If you could only have seen the happy faces of the nurses and volunteers when the 3000th donor came through, you would have realized the actual worth of the long hard campaign you carried out. The spontaneous shouts of joy are now hard to picture with words; but it was worth it.
If only one of the 3119 pints donated can serve the purpose of saving a life, the drive will have been a success. Today, we are prayerfully reminded of the purpose of donating blood and the great need for it during the current crisis.
Thanks.
Sincerely,
William H. Unger
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Frank Lloyd Wright talks about architecture in Washington Hall next Friday . . .
■
Siesta in the Sun
These are the days when sun tan oil and portable radios go at a premium. On the pier at St. Joseph’s lake, the poor man’s Riviera, select sunning positions go by noontime, and late comers must settle for vacant spots between shore shrubberies. The Rockne Memorial sun porch barely gets its tiles warm before it becomes littered with people whose sole end is the pinkening of their epidermis.
By traditional resolve, most sun worshipers go to the Rock or lakes to study for exams. Without the usual distractions— the patter of the psychocases who run around the lake “to get in shape,” vociferous cribbage players, and diving tower exhibitionists—this noble plan might be successful.
But the average troop succumbs to the general atmosphere of vegetation, bastes himself with baby oil and turns over to broil slowly in the Indiana sun. After a while he closes his eyes and listens to the soft, excited voice of Bert Wilson coming through somebody’s portable.
a couple of years ago, but this columnist is a coward.
To the people who didn’t like this column, we can only say that we admire your discretion.
To all newspaper and magazine editors we will divulge the whereabouts of a slightly-used journalist, who can be had dirt cheap. Address all inquiries to the ‘Week,’ c/o Notre Dame Scholastic. This information is not available to our local draft board.
To our censors and copyreaders, we can only say that we hope somebody does the same for you some day, and that you never pass the English Essentials test.
To the person who writes this column next year, we offer our condolences and a bit of fatherly advice. You are going to find out a lot of things about Notre Dame that you didn’t know before. A lot of these things you aren’t going to like. But then you can always poke fun at them, and hope somebody agrees with you. And finally, may your deadline ulcers be only small ulcers.
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . two dollars a head, which ought to be some kind of record for Wash Hall.
FASAN FULBRIGHT WINNER
Irving E. Fasan, Jr., of'Munster, Ind., who will receive his Master’s degree in August, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for a year’s study at the University of London in England.
Fasan, who is the second Notre Dame stude.nt to be awarded a Fulbright Scholarship, will study Political Science in the University's London School of Economics.
Students interested in applying for grants for study abroad for the 1954-55 academic year should make their applications between now and Oct. 31.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 410 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Good Housekeeping
Samples from the recent furniture show at Salvation Army headquarters will go on sale this weekend in all senior residence halls. Most items have been expertly re-upholstered with stuffing made from the world’s greatest newspaper and $1.98 slipcovers (Sear’s best). Nevertheless, hundreds of choice davenports and easy chairs will be going at prices which promise to rock the interior decorating market.
Underclassmen, who are not going to dispose of their furniture, are advised to prevail upon their hall maid at an early date for storage space in her broom closet. Local storage rates are infamously inflationary.
■
Finale
To anybody whose feelings we might have hurt, we apologize. We could meet you behind the old gym at 6 a.m. like ‘Week’ columnist Jack McGoldrick did
COMPARE THE FAKE AND YOUU GOBYA/R-
ON A UNITED
MAINLINER
Here’s the finest service available! You can be
home within hours after your last class. United
serves 77 cities coast-to-coast, and Honolulu.
To many of these cities, the cost is lower than
1st class rail fare plus lower berth.
South Bend: for reservations, call
2-J401 or an authorized travel agent.
May 22, 1953
MAN 22
COLFAX (through the 27th)—Mickey Rooney makes like a boxer with Bob Hope and his manager in Off Limits (A-l). We can’t promise a top-notch ring exhibition, but it’ll last longer than the Marciano-Walcott “fight” and is bound to be a lot funnier.
AVON (through the 26th)—What two navy men are doing riding camels in a desert we don’t know, but that’s exactly what Richard Wid-mark and Don Taylor do in a fantastic but true thing called Destination Gobi (A-l).
RIVER PARK (two more days)—Two extremes meet when Come Back Little Sheba (B) and Niagara are on the same bill.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Frank Lloyd Wright, the noted architect, speaks “On Architecture.” Admission is two dollars.
MAY 23
ST. MARY’S (2 p.m.)—ND’s brawny Bombers travel across the Dixie to play SMC’s Fragile (?) Fems in 1953’s most titanic tussle, with the Notre Dame softball championship at stake. Donation—two bits.
WASHINGTON HALL (2, 6:40, 8:45)—Rex Harrison and Lili Palmer compose the full cast in Four Poster, a mixture of satire and sincerity about marriage.
MAY 24
STATE (two days)—Greg Peck has the show all to himself in Yellow Sky and The Gunfighter, two re-issued hot-leaders.
PALACE (four days)—3-D leaves town for awhile and two old-fashioned two-dimensions, Serpent of the Nile (B) and Jack McCall, Desperado (A-2) take over.
GRANADA (four days)—Despite the title, Hitch-Hiker (A-2) won’t give you any pointers on how to thumb home. Clyde Beatty, boy liontamer, cracks the whip in Perils of the Jungle.
MAY 27
AVON (a week)—Those two are back again in Scared Stiff. 'If you like Martin and Lewis, you should really go for this one. It even has a little story to it.
CAMPUS (8:30-5:30)—They’re here again, those pre-vacation necessities called final exams.
MAY 28
COLFAX (indefinite run)—You may be tired of the song, but it’ll still prove well worth your while to see Moulin Rouge (B).
GRANADA (a week)—We don’t know if there’s any connection between Small Toivn Girl (A-l) and The Girl Who Had Everything (A-2), and we also don’t know if it’s worthwhile to find out.
PALACE (a week)—Double bill offering some good advice. Never Wave at a WAC (B) and Fast Company.
MAY 29
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40, 8:10)—Randy Scott at his two-fisted best as a Johnny Reb on the run in Hangman’s Knot (A-2). Those in the know say it’s better than ordinary. Could be.
JUNE 2
CARTIER FIELD (2 p.m.)—It’s “Jake Kline Day” and the veteran pilot hopes his charges can make it perfect by whipping Western Michigan.
JUNE 7
STADIUM (2 p.m.)—The graduates, 1,000 strong, pick up their sheepskins after attending a High Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. Then it’s goodbye to ND and out into a world of question marks.
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS 25with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL
Across from South Shore
HEALTH
SHOE S
For
Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
Need Money For Next Fall?
Summer Jobs
For Male Undergraduates at GARY SHEET & TIN MILL United States Steel Corp. Starting rate, $1,435 per hr. Many opportunities to earn $2 an hour. Time and One-half for overtime. Excellent working conditions. Placement on jobs related to your studies—where possible.
For further Information: contact your College Placement Office or write.-
E. C. CLYMER GARY SHEET & TIN MILL North Buchanan St. Gary, Ind.
Aquinas
Library and Book Shop
Catholic Shopping Center
BOOKS FOR MARY’S MONTH
■ 110 E. LASALLE ST.
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 May 22, 1953 No. 26
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of Postage Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized une 23. 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..............  News
FRED C. ECKART ..........Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .......________Features
JOHN F. SAND ..................  Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: John Adams, Bill Burnett, Jerry Campbell, Dick Connelly, Pete Connolly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, Gavin King, Fred Krack-lauer, Paul LaFreniere, John Manion, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywinski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeGrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
The Last Word for '53
The thoughts of the prospective graduate are anything but clear and concise, whether he looks toward the future or back at his years at Notre Dame.
About one subject, however, he may be certain: he will be “something special” in the eyes of the people around him after he leaves school. His reputation will be readymade, sight unseen, for him. Consequently, he must be better than average, for he will be judged subjectively from this preconceived idea, and not objectively as simply a college graduate.
He is special because he is a graduate of Notre Dame. The many exhortations for good behavior “in order that the honor of Notre Dame will be upheld” have a sound basis in fact. If a student at a state university chalks up some infamy to himself, the public and press reaction is, “These college kids are no good.” But if a Notre Dame student figures in a similar situation, the comment is “Notre Dame students are no good.”
This fact has always been galling to most of us. Not many liked it when we had to apologize to Michigan State two years ago for baiting their rooters after the football game here, especially when the destruction of Michigan goalposts bv Spartan cohorts a few weeks previously had been lauded as a creditable manifestation of college spirit.
Actually, however, Notre Dame owes her very existence to her reputation of being “something special.” Notre Dame would have a small student body indeed if she had to depend upon an area comparable to that which feeds a state university. She draws students from 48 states only because of her reputation for offering a little something extra. All of us must have wanted to share in this distinction which is Notre Dame’s, for chances are we could have found good schools closer to home if we had so desired.
This distinction is now our right, but it carries with it a corresponding obligation. The reputation of the University and the value of a Notre Dame degree are the responsibility of each graduate. If he will not live in a way which will insure the continuation of this reputation, his distinction will become worthless and he might as well have stayed home and attended the state university.
In just 16 days the graduate of the Class of ’53 will have left behind him the days when his biggest problems were passing tests, winning contests, and gaining positions in campus organizations. By his attendance at Notre Dame, the graduate has committed himself to being “something special.” Now he must make his distinction hold water, and has the obligation to face the future as an educated, Christian gentleman, always acting in a way befitting the training he sought when he came to Notre Dame. If he does this, both he and the University can point with pride to the days he spent here.—R.G.F.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Our cover shot for this week depicts the final chapter- in the long story of Notre Dame’s search for a new home for the arts—the dedication scene of the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building. You’ll find an interesting text and picture of the event on page 17.
—Photos by Bruce Harlan—
. . . Where Credit Is Due	,
A Scholastic editor’s job can be very difficult if he has a poor staff, or very easy if he has a good staff. I seriously doubt that any Scholastic editor ever had an easier job than I have had this year; and I would like to take this small space in this last issue to publicly thank everyone who had a hand in this year’s magazine, especially those whose names you see in bold type to the left of this column. These men always worked extra hours to turn an adequate job into a good job, and did it ungrudgingly.
My special thanks go to Don Carbone and Tom Foote, who wrote the Calendar and handled photography, respectively, in addition to their duties as associate editors. They seldom got by-lines, and thus often missed the credit they deserved, but every page of every issue could have carried their signatures without injustice.	•
I would also like to thank the many people around the University who helped us gather, write, and print our material—all of us will remember their cooperation. To those very few who seemed bent upon making our job as difficult as possible—well, we’ll all remember you, too.—R.G.F.
May 22, 1953
7
A Score Settled
Sgt.RonaldE. Rosser, U.S.Army Medal of Honor
Now E Bonds pay 3%! Now, improved Series E Bonds start paying interest after 6 months. And average 3% interest. compounded semiannually when held to maturity! Also, all maturing E Bonds automatically go on earning—at the new rate—for 10 more years. Today, start investing in U.S. Series E Defense Bonds through the Payroll Savings Plan at work.
The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation\with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.
When his brother was killed in Korea, Sergeant Rosser re-enlisted. Several months later he. too, was in Korea—pinned down on a hill near Pongil-li by Red fire. He saw it cutting up the platoon. Suddenly he jumped to his feet. Alone, and armed only with a carbine and a grenade, he charged a Red bunker and cleaned it out. He dropped into a trench and dispatched five more enemies. Twice, under heavy fire, he returned for more ammunition, then renewed his attack. His one-man fight was furious—and short. It ended with 13 enemy dead, the American platoon saved, and a score settled for Sergeant Ronald Rosser.
“When a man gets back from Korea." savs Sergeant Rosser, “it does him good to see people—like you—investing hard-earned money in our country’s Bonds. Sure, Bonds are a practical way to save money, I know. But they also help build production power—to arm, equip and protect men overseas. And that’s proof to people like me that people like you really care.”
Peace is for the strong! For peace and prosperity save with U.S. Defense Bonds!
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 26
MAY 22, 1953
Thousand to Receive Degrees June 7
Will Give Five Men Honorary Degrees
The bowl of Notre Dame Stadium will be the scene of the 108th annual commencement exercises in which more than 1,000 men will receive degrees. Set as the climax to baccalaureate weekend, the exercises will begin at 2 p.m. on Sunday, June 7.
The stadium will also be the site of the Baccalaureate Mass at 9 a.m. Sunday for which His Eminence J. Francis Cardinal McIntyre, D.D., archbishop of Los Angeles, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon. The Cardinal will be the recipient of an honorary degree from the University at the commencement exercises that afternoon, as will Dr. Detlev W. Bronk, president of Johns Hopkins University, who will give the commencement address.
In addition to Cardinal McIntyre who was recently raised to the office of Cardinal by His Holiness Pius XII, degrees will go to three other distinguished Americans: Brigadier Gen. M. K. Deichelmann, USAF, Commandant Air Force ROTC; Bernard J. Voll, presi-
CARDINAL MclNTYRE
Bid Seniors Farewell . . .
dent of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corporation, South Bend; and Joseph P. Savage, Chicago attorney. Mr. Voll is an alumnus and trustee of the University.
The celebrant of the Solemn Pontifical High Mass for the graduates will be Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, auxiliary bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind. Bishop Pursley is himself an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame.
A flag, which was presented to the University on Washington’s Birthday, will be blessed during the Mass and afterwards carried in procession by the graduates to the foot of the Stadium flag pole, where it will be raised over the field.
The commencement proper will be opened by an academic procession onto the • playing field of the Stadium. Following the bestowal of honorary degrees on the five dignitaries, Dr. Bronk will deliver his address to the assembled graduates. Approximately 925 seniors and 75 graduate students will receive diplomas in the ceremony.
The baccalaureate weekend will start at 9 a.m. Saturday when the graduates file in to Sacred Heart Church to make the traditional “last visit.”
Immediately following this tribute, the graduates will assemble in the Drill Hall for the Class Day exercises during which medals and prizes will be awarded, and the ROTC students from the three branches of the Military will be commissioned.
The guests of the graduates will be welcomed by Kerwin Fulton, president of the class, in a short address and after the presentation of awards, Alfred C. De Crane as class orator will deliver the Commencement Oration. The closing highlight of the ceremonies will be the Valedictory Address to be given by this year’s Valedictorian, Ernest J. Bartell.
A baseball game at 2 p.m. will pit the Irish against Great Lakes Training Base and provide entertainment for the guests until 4:30, when students and visitors are invited to an administration reception in the Rockne Memorial.
DETLEV W. BRONK . . . On Commencement Day
An after-dinner band concert will begin on the main quadrangle lawn at 6:30 to be followed at 8:15 by the Glee Club Commencement Concert in Washington Hall.
Madigan Named to Manage '54 Mardi Gras Festivities
Joe Madigan, junior accounting major from Oak Park, HL, was appointed Mardi Gras Chairman for 1954 at last Tuesday evening’s Student Senate meeting.
Madigan succeeds Brian Kelly, who headed this year’s affair which netted proceeds of nearly $15,000.
Jim McComb and Ned Griffin have been selected as co-chairmen of the Carnival.
Tentative plans are being formulated which would include giving St. Mary’s a more important part in the festivities, such as having rhe girls run some booths of their own.
Another plan in the embryonic stage would change the first prize of the Raffle to a vacation trip or a higher-priced car.	-
May 22, 1953
9
AL SUWALSKY
Appointed to ‘Dome’ . . .
JACK BURNS
. . . ‘Juggler,’ and . . .
Suwalsky, Harrington, Newquist, and Burns Named '53-'54 Student Publications Chiefs
John P. Def ant, director of publications, announced the staffs for the 195354 editions of the Dome, Technical Review, and Juggler at last evening’s annual Notre Dame Publications banquet.
Al Suwalsky, hailing from Leavenworth, Kans., will replace Fran Meaney as editor of the Dome. Suwalsky, a junior English major, served as associate editor of the 1953 Dome. Bernard
his capacity by James Francis and Jerry Schoenherr, who will be associate managing editors.
Thomas Stahl will be the art editor. A native of Madison, S.D., he is a senior in architecture. William Carson, from Haddonfield, N. J., will be the business manager.
The adminstration manager’s position will be taken over by Henry Burke, a freshman from Tacoma, Wash. Michael Celeste and David Gilsdorf will share the duties of circulation manager.
Editing the literary endeavors of the Juggler will be English major John Burns from Honolulu, Hawaii. He replaces John Elson. The assistant editor’s job goes to Joseph Imbriaco, hailing from Elizabeth, N.J. and majoring in political science. A third-year English major coming from Princeton, Ill., Robert Gorman, will take over the reins of managing editor.
Chemstrand, Chemical Firm, Seeks Business, A.B. Majors
The Chemstrand Corp., a jointly owned subsidiary of American Viscose Corp, and Monsanto Chemical Co., will have a number of lower level supervisory openings for men graduating in June in the fields of business management, liberal arts, accounting, teaching, and the various sciences.
These openings are with the corporation’s nylon plant now under construction at Pensacola, Fla., and for the most part will be in the production departments.
Any men graduating in June with leadership qualities who are interested in these openings, are requested to contact Mr. L. E. Stone, Chemstrand Corp., Decatur, Ala., for additional information.
LaLonde will fill* the associate editor position. LaLonde, who comes from Detroit, was the Halls editor of this year’s Dome. Ron Mazzoli, a junior business administration major from Louisville, Ky., is the managing editor.
The business manager will be Ned Griffin, a junior majoring in accounting and a native of Knoxville, Tenn. Frank Burke and Richard Williams will be the co-editors of the activities section.
Joseph Baumie, a sophomore commerce man from Toledo, O., has been named religious editor. A freshman in the General Program, Bob O’Malley, will handle the job of sports editor. Gavin King, a native of Tulsa, Okla., will be copy editor.	.
Next year’s Technical Review, the magazine for engineers, will be headed by two well-known track men, James Harrington and Harvey Newquist. Harrington, a junior in chemical engineering, calls Mountainside, N. J., his home, while mechanical engineer Newquist is a native of DeKalb, Ill.
The managing editor’s position will be filled by Frank Florian, from Washington, Pa. Florian will be assisted in
HARVEY NEWQUIST AND JIM HARRINGTON . . . ‘Technical Review’ Editorial Posts
10
The Scholastic

3>ate Wilk Ah Sh-A/xIoUoIm . . .
Dr. Kennan Sideswipes Senator McCarthy, Lauds Oatis Release in Exclusive Interview
BY PAT CARRICO
George F. Kennan, former U. S. ambassador to Russia, lashed out at certain aspects of what he called “forces of mass, emotional anti-communism” in the U. S. during a 25-minute address before the O’Shaughnessy dedication’s academic convocation here last Friday night.
Next morning, during an exclusive Scholastic interview at the Morris Inn, the former ambassador narrowed his sights and took a healthy sideswipe at Wisconsin’s Senator Joe McCarthy; then offered some interesting observations on A.P.’s recently Soviet-sprung newspaperman, William Oatis:
“McCarthy could possibly be one of these fanatical anti-communists I referred to last night,” Kennan replied, when queried. He covered up quickly, however; declined to comment directly, and referred to the previous night’s speech in which he intimated the difficulty in pinning these same “forces” on “any one man or political concept.”
Confronted by the reporter’s assumption that McCarthy—from all indications—was a sample of the wildhaired anti-communist gallery, and pressed for the consequences of such antics, Kennan replied: “In that case I’d say he’s dangerous . . . mighty dangerous! He’s engendering a bitter, fatal spirit among Americans who are in public life.”
Going farther, he added: “Anyone who supplants confidence and generosity with suspicion (referring to the Senate’s communist-affiliation investigations) is jeopardizing the formulation of our public opinion.”
Outlining—in his speech the night before—Notre Dame’s stand as an institution devoted to the liberal arts and a potential bulwark against the faulty wing of anti-communism, the former ambassador exposed two of the evil’s more prominent symptoms: (1) cultural isolation and rampant provincialism which, he said, if left unchecked, would bring sterility to “intellectual and artistic life”; and (2) a new public ritual of classification, (e.g.) suspicion in the eyes of fellow citizens upon failure to actively decry others because of various “affiliations.”
When asked if a student with a lib
eral arts education would be qualified for a career in foreign service, he retorted: “Quite definitely.” He advised, in ‘ effect, a thorough, fundamental training in the liberal arts and the humanities, adding: “the specialized work in diplomacy and international protocol can come later.”
Next question: “Would you say that William Oatis’ release is a sign of Soviet softening toward the U. S.?”
Reply; “Whether or not it’s a softening in attitude I wouldn’t venture to say. However, it is an indication that
GEORGE F. KENNAN Sideswipes and Mixed Emotions
someone has corrected an important wrong; and it is to be welcomed—certainly.”
He went on to indicate, however, that the matter was a “minor” one, compared to the essential issues which are at stake in Soviet-U. S. relations. The ex-statesman, who lived for more than ten years in totalitarian countries, made one bold prediction: “It is a state of mind international com
munist leaders are acquiring — one which should make settling our differences with the Soviet much easier.”
Regarding the possibility of concessions made by the U. S. high command in obtaining Oatis’ release, Kennan observed: “Most certainly there’s a possibility of concessions. But, of
course, I have received no official word to the effect.” (State Department announced several hours thereafter that “no concessions were made,” but that imposition of “certain restrictions” would possibly be lifted in countercourtesy.)
The ex-State Department official spoke freely of his meetings with former Premier Joseph Stalin and his successor, Malenkov, but declined to comment on the differences between the’ two men with reference to personality or policies.
Echoing the sentiments of his former Democratic bosses somewhat forcefully, Kennan enthusiastically supported the recent resumption of peace parleys at Panmunjon. “There can’t be a real improvement in Soviet and U. S. relations,” he stated, “until a cease-fire agreement is reached in Korea. And as I see it the peace talks are the first step in this direction.”
Kennan was somewhat less enthusiastic, however, when questioned about the prospects of the present administration’s “get tough” foreign policy. “No comment,” he snapped. He offered the same answer when asked whether he thought the Republicans are showing any signs of harboring the attitudes he had advocated in his speech, the night before.	4
What was probably the most surprising reaction of the day came when Kennan flatly refused to comment on the question: “Do you think the Democrats were' following the best foreign policy possible while still in office?” “All I can say,” he replied, “is that being a former federal employee, I can’t make any such commitments.”
Then he discarded the following topics with nervous rapidity: (1) Eisenhower’s fulfillment of pre-inaug-uration speculation with regard to policy, personality; (2) the Democrats’ chances in ’56; (3) constructive steps he would personally advise the Republicans to take in international relations, if the occasion presented itself.
Commenting on the new O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, he said: “I’ve • been to campuses all over the country, but I’m serious when I say this is the most impressive liberal arts structure I’ve seen yet. In fact, he added, “this whole campus is most beautiful.”
“Now that I’m an alumnus, I’ll probably be back every now and then to see a football game,” he- said. “The last time I saw Notre Dame football (1923), those Four Horsemen beat the pants off my alma mater, Princeton. Twenty-five to two,” he added. “I’m a man of mixed emotions.”
May 22, 1953
U
Beck's Painting Cops Jacques Art Medal
Louis Beck, a senior in the art department of the College of Arts and Letters, has been named the 1953 recipient of the Jacques Art Medal. He received the award for his oil painting “The Widow.”
The Jacques Medal is named in honor of Emil Jacques, the well-known former
‘THE WIDOW’
Beck's Jacques Medal Winner
head of the University’s art department. It is awarded to the senior whose graduating thesis—painting, sculpture, or design—is judged by the faculty of the department to be the best.
All art seniors are eligible for this gold medal since it is a requisite for graduation that each senior submit a thesis, or original and imaginative piece of art before May 1 of his senior year. This year thei’e were six theses submitted, all of which are of such quality that the judges were in session for three hours before naming the Little Rock, Ark., student as the winner. -
Beck welcomed the announcement of his award with the comment that “It is a realization of my dreams.” He stated that “it is the ambition of every Notre Dame art student to win the Jacques Medal.”
The judges awarded the commendation of honorable mention to David Hayes for his sculpture, “The Penitent,” and to John Mclntee for his three-dimensional design.
These six theses are now on display, and will be all Summer, in the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
Alumni Association Advises Campus Clubs; Fr. Wilson, Armstrong Plan Close Cooperation
The Alumni Association of Notre Dame, represented by Mr. James Armstrong, met with the campus geographical club presidents in a smoker on May 11 in the Morris Inn to discuss the problems of these organizations.
The meeting was held under the auspices of the Blue Circle.
Difficulties at home and on campus, and the cooperation with their respective alumni clubs were considered by the clubs in conjunction with the Alumni Association.
Mr. Armstrong opened the meeting with an outline of the Notre Dame Alumni Association’s growth and the many reasons why the alumni are interested in the welfare of the campus clubs.
Approximately 30 club presidents, Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president of business affairs, Mr. Armstrong, and several members of the executive branch of the Alumni Association participated in this meeting, which was conducted on an informal forum basis.
Andy Lum of the Hawaiian Club pointed out that because of the distance from Notre Dame, the club’s main purpose in organizing is to bring together the members not only here on campus but later as a successful alumni club.
An ideal situation was found to exist in the Buffalo Club, where an active campus club, because of active freshmen and good leadership,, success.-, fully cooperates in local activities with an equally active alumni club.
As outlined by Jerry McCabe, the main reason for this healthy situation is the realization of common interests by both clubs and constant correspondence between the two club presidents.
Duke Rank of the Arizona Club outlined a project which was used in that state to pull the groups together. The campus club, with the aid of the alumni organization, ran a very successful enrollment drive in that area.
Joe Pagliari of the Chicago Club and Phil Higgins of the St. Louis Club told of successful mixers and dinners held by their alumni clubs for the incoming freshmen and their fathers during the summer months.
The Job Placement Bureau and Career Clinic of the Metropolitan Alumni Club was discussed and lauded as a fine example of alumni interest.
Father Wilson pointed out that upon graduation it is the senior’s duty to look up his alumni club rather than
wait to be contacted. He encouraged all graduates to do this for the betterment of future alumni-University relations.
Mr. Armstrong pointed out that many of the alumni clubs are being taken over by recent graduates due to the movement referred to by Father Wilson. Mr. Armstrong also emphasized that the alumni office is very anxious to aid the campus club presidents in any way, especially in contacting their local alumni clubs.
After the meeting it was decided that such forums would be held several times a year in the future and the campus clubs were asked to keep the alumni office posted on change of officers and to feel free to ask any help in alumni relations.
Dean O'Meara Addresses Annual 'Lawyer' Gathering
Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., of the College of Law was the principal speaker at the annual Notre Dame Lawyer banquet held recently in South Bend. The Dean in congratulating both the outgoing and incoming staffs reemphasized “the importance of law review work to the law student, the Law school and to the legal profession in their constant criticism, comment, and watchful analysis of judicial decisions and legislative acts which, in turn, re-, • suits'~in-the-continued growth-and- development of the law as a whole as well as its stability in certain fields.” He also pointed out “that principles and methods of legal research and writing now learned in law review work will be of invaluable assistance later in life.”
O’Meara asserted his conviction that the new staff will continue the hard and excellent work of the members of the editorial staffs of the past years which has made the Notre Dame Lawyer nationally known for the quality and exactitude of its articles and as one of the nation’s best Law Reviews.
Robert Berry, editor-in-chief, was presented with a scroll by the outgoing staff in tribute to his many long hours of work. Berry announced the appointments to next year’s editorial staff: Joseph Helling, editor; Carl Eiberger, Jr., associate editor; Edward Burke, note editor; Richard DiValerio, case editor; John Pietrykowski, book review editor; and Richard Dytrych, administrative editor.
12
The Scholastic
WNDU AUDITIONS ANNOUNCERS SUNDAY
WNDU, the Student Voice, will audition prospective announcers for next year in the studios of the radio station this Sunday. Anyone desiring to try out is asked to contact WNDU for an appointment by phoning the station at 661.
Show ND-Made Film A+ Press Club Dinner
Rush prints of the recently-filmed Shake Dozvzi the Thunder will highlight the annual Press Club dinner 'Monday evening. This organization, an outlet of the Department of Journalism, will gather at the Ramble Inn in Roseland at 6:30 p.m. for the annual affair.
Shake Dozun the Thunder is the story of the famous Irish fight song, the world-renowned Victory March. The movie was filmed on campus by journalism majors in conjunction with various departments of the University.
Television techniques, a course offered for the first time this year by the journalism department, utilized this project as a semester problem.
Announcement will be made Monday at the banquet of the 1952-53 winners of the four Fred A Miller Awards, the Meyers Award, and the O’Donnell ■ Medal.
The latter prizes go to the senior with the highest average in journalism courses and to the journalism senior with the highest overall scholastic average.
Special guest at the banquet will be Franklin D. Schurz of the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Schurz will represent the Tribune President and Editor F. A. Miller to bestow the Miller Awards.
General chairman of the banquet is Dick Daley, Press Club president. He was aided in the planning of the affair by Bob Zier and Pat Carrico.
Student Trip to Philly
Mickey Moran, recently appointed chairman of next Fall’s student trip, has announced that the Penn football game will be the site of the annual excursion for 1953.
Plans are now being drawn up to reserve a special train on the New York Central Railroad to transport students to Philadelphia.
Social events with some of the girls’ schools in the vicinity of the “City of Brotherly Love” are also being lined up.
LaFortunes Give $135,000 to Student Center; Project Now Lacks Only Funds for Furnishings
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, disclosed in an exclusive release to the Scholastic this week that Mi*, and Mrs. Joseph A. La-Fortune of Tulsa, Okla., have provided a $135,000 impetus to the financial drive for the Student Center renovation fund.
The generous donation of Mr. and Mrs. LaFortune will cover the complete planned renovation of the building, according to Father Hesburgh’s announcement. Mr. LaFortune, an alumnus of the class of 1916, is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. He has been active in his alma mater’s behalf throughout the years.
The LaFortunes’ donation will cover all expenses except those of furnishing the center. The remaining funds for the furnishings will be raised by the students and the Women’s Council of Notre Dame.
Mrs. Ernest M. Morris president of the Women’s Council, is in charge of the planning, while Pat Mulrooney, president of the Hall Council system, is directing the students’ efforts. Mrs. Morris and her late husband donated the funds for the Morris Inn.
Approximately $17,000 has been
Donaher Noses Out Ellis In Pitt Club Prexy Race
Pittsburgh Club members broke a stalemate for the presidential post and elected other club officers for the coming schoolyear in balloting held in the Dining Hall basement on Tuesday evening.
Junior John Donaher, who had been tied with Larry Ellis following an election held several weeks ago, captured a majority of votes to best his opponent. Donaher, who is in the College of Commerce, succeeds Jack Donoghue, a graduating senior.
Pat Rooney, a third-year engineering student, was selected vice-president at the earlier election.
The secretarial position ■will be filled by Frank Donovan, a junior pre-med-ical student; Hugh Boyle, a sophomore, gained the treasurer’s job; and Junior Dick Anton will handle the club publicity. Boyle is enrolled in the AB school and Anton is a commerce student.
The new officers will handle the summer activities and presently plan to contact club members at home about these activities.
garnered thus far to pay for the furnishings. This money has been collected through various donations, the Vetville pastry contest, and Mardi Gi-as receipts.
Within weeks the contracts for construction will be assigned. If no delays are encountered, completion is expected by the Fall tenn. Mrs. Morris has already made several contacts for the procurement of suitable equipment.
Mulrooney and a group of seniors began tearing down the many partitions and other useless wall-space in the Science Building three weeks ago. With the addition of underclassman aid in the past week, the actual physical work of the students has been completed.
The building, now completely stripped, is ready for the contractors to begin their work. University electricians will commence wiring renovations immediately after the close of the semester.
The administration, in showing its appreciation for the cooperation of the
CENTER CROWBAR CREW Constructive Destruction
students, has allowed all the lumber removed from the building to be set aside for class dance usage. This wood will be loaned to the various dance committees and .it will be returned after the affair.
Through this loan process, dance expenses will be cut and bids should be sold at lower prices.
All showcases and unnecessary partitions have been removed from both floors, and the material not to be used for dances.
May 22, 1953
.13
ERNIE BARTELL
Achievements Bring . . .
Scholastic Men of the Year
(The Editors of the Scholastic present their sixth annual selections for the Notre Dame Alen of the Year honors. These men and one activity have been chosen on a basis of leadership and of contribution to the University of Notre Dame and its student body, according to their nczes value during the past year. As in the past, publication members and DOME award zeinners Were not eligible for consideration.)
PAT MULROONEY
. .Recognition to Notre Dame’s . . .
BILL RYAN
. . . ‘Men of the Year’ . . .
ERNIE BARTELL ... of River Forest, III., has managed to top off his four-years at Notre Dame by finishing as valedictorian of this year’s class. This in itself would be achievement enough for any man, but Bartell has also participated in numerous time-consuming activities in addition to ending up top man on the scholastic ladder.
Notable among these were his work in the Student Senate as Commerce Senator; the Commerce Forum; and the Arts and Letters Advisory Board, of which he was a member. Bartell also served on the Commerce' Activities Council for two years, acting as the publicity chairman for this year’s Commerce Ball, and was chosen to be included in the 1953 version of Who’s Who in American Colleges.
Bartell was no mean organizer in his underclassman days, for besides his participation in the YCS he was the associate editor of the Commerce Nezus and a member of the Finance Club for two years, being elected president this year. He also is an active member of the Marketing Club.
■
PAT MULROONEY . . . has participated in nearly every function of this school year from the hall elections to the Senior Ball.
Climaxing an active year in the 195253 edition of the revamped Student Senate, Pat was voted “Most Outstanding Senator of the Year” by his colleagues. Earlier in the term, following the mid-term graduation of the vicepresident, Pat was called on to fill the vacancy and assume the reigns of the Hall Council System as its prexy.
Pat became' a member of the Senate by virtue of his October election to the presidency of Walsh Hall. In November he was selected chainnan of the Student Center fund-raising and renovation committee.
When the basketball squad gained a berth in the NCAA playoffs in March, Pat arranged the student trip to Fort Wayne for the tilt with Eastern Kentucky.
When ND broke three national marks in the annual blood drive, Pat was the bellwether in charge of the freshman division and he engineered the frosh to a commendable showing.
During the Spring, Pat also acted as
coordinator foi- the campus May Day celebration and conducted the canvass of the halls for the spiritual bouquet given to the I. A. O’Shaughnessy family on May 16.
A member of the YCS and the Finance Club, Pat has nevertheless found time to win a brace of monograms on the varsity fencing team.
■
BILL RYAN ... is aptly described as the voice behind Notre Dame’s student voice, WNDU. Bill is appearing for the second straight time as a Scholastic “Man of the Year.” Starting as a freshman, Bill has moved up the laddei- to station manager, a position he assumed in the lattei’ part of his sophomore year, retaining that position until last March when he began work at WSBT in South Bend.
During Bill’s reign the campus station has taken its place as a member of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System. Under his leadership, the reorganized staff increased from 30 to 70, and actual hours on the air jumped from 51 to 87, national news and sports coverage, as well as transcription service, was added; the station’s record library grew from 300 to 9,420 modern and classical discs; “away” football and basketball games were brought direct to campus listeners; and sales were more than tripled.
A speech major from Flushing, N. Y., Bill is also a member of Who’s Who in American Colleges. He was recently the' recipient of an annual award of the speech department here. During his last two Summers Bill has been employed with NBC in New York. Bill considers the acquisition of new studios for WNDU in the new O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts as his greatest accomplishment.
■
Blood Drive Men of the Year
A special, composite-type “Man of the Year” award goes to those concerned with putting the 1953 blood drive over the top. Over all our protestations, the men responsible refuse to take any credit, and they insist upon remaining anonymous. The reason they give is that the credit belongs to each of the 3,119 men who donated a pint
14
The Scholastic
of blood this year, and they say no individuals should receive public acclaim for the drive.
However, no persons are more deserving of mention here than the four seniors who stood waist-deep in red tape all year, trying to obtain a blood-mobile for Notre' Dame. But their work hadn’t even begun when arrangements -with the Red Cross were completed, and they put in long hours canvassing, publicizing, arranging schedules, and' taking care of the’ many details which were prerequisites to the three national records set by the drive.
Since they refuse' to be named, they must be acclaimed only as four seniors who decided that Korean servicemen needed blood, and who worked on their own, unaffiliate'd 'with any organization, to fill a part of this need.
Activity of the Year
SENIOR BALL . . .
If the success of an activity can be measured by its popularity, this year’s Senior Ball, the glittering Shangri-la, will be remembered by many Prom-goers for some time to come. The Drill Hall was changed to an oriental Garden of Eden, complete with a huge bronze buddha which overlooked the bandstand. Appearing in a much-desired repeat performance was Ray Anthony, his orchestra, and five vocalists. Much of the credit for the success of the “enchanted evening”
goes to the dance chairmen and their assistants who worked together to produce the greatest Senior Ball in many years. For four hours, the seniors swirled . in a Shangri-la of gaiety, beauty, and bliss. The oriental theme was reflected further by authentic garb worn by the waiters who catered to the throng. The foremost factor which led to the' success of the affair was the efficient organization of the various components which go to make a dance. “Shangri-la” certainly contained all these assets and many more.
Student Senators Suggest Charter Revision; Encourage Greater Attendance at Meetings
Incumbents newly elected to student government posts clarified their stands this week on a number of key issues as outlined May 7 by Jim Richards, next year’s Senate president. .
Regarding the proposed streamlining of the Senate constitution Bill Guilfoile, senior president, said, “There is some ambiguity in regard to the designation of responsibility in the executive branch of student government. Once this defect is remedied, the present system should prove more adequate and efficient.”
Bill Carson, engineering senator, commented that, “The Senate at present has sufficient power to carry on its work but, in case more power is needed, I would advocate any method which would enable it to act rapidly and maintain the power it needs more readily.”
Science senator, Joe Daley, who will serve also as secretary of the Senate, emphasized his hopes for a unification of all groups within the College of Science. Daley agreed with the other officers in saying, “I feel that the executive branch of our constitution has shown definite weaknesses in the last year and that the revision of this branch will be one of the major tasks of next year’s Senate.”
When asked about the adequacy of student government Joe Giovanini answered, “It would be fine for the student body if the government were able to support and accomplish more things, but I think they are doing a fine job now.”
Guilfoile is aiming at greater student interest in Senate affairs. He believes
the means to the end would be for students occasionally to attend the Senate meetings which are open to the public. He also visualizes this as “a check on the individual student representatives.” Guilfoile sees a need for careful selection of the 14 hall representatives next fall who will occupy Senate seats.
The government at present does not give an adequate chance for the students to offer their suggestions in Carson’s opinion. He feels that the College of Engineering has been neglected or overlooked in deciding student policies and so is pledged to “bring the engineers and the rest of the University into better understanding.”
Casper Gives Piano Recital Monday in Washington Hall
Richard Casper, pianist, will present a recital in Washington Hall Monday night at 8:15. Casper, a graduating music major and a student of Carl Mathes, hails from Roselle Park, N.J.
As soloist -with the Notre Dame Glee Club, Casper has played before thousands of people in more than 20 concerts during the past year. He has received many favorable criticisms from music critics all over the U.S. “A startlingly fine pianist” said the Hartford Times after Casper’s April 8 performance in Bushnell Auditorium with the Glee Club.
Casper’s Monday evening program will include the “Waldstein” Sonata by Beethoven, and works by Bach, Schumann, Chopin, Schubert, Liszt, Bartok, and Debussey.
Smithberger Publishes 63-Essay Collection
Prof. Andrew T. Smithberger, a member of the faculty in the Department of English, recently published a collection of essays entitled Essays’. British and American. The Houghton Mifflin Co. produced the book.
The book contains 63 essays by 51 writers, covering a three-century span. Some of the works printed are by famous Englishmen, such as Alexander Smith’s “On the Writing of Essays”; Francis Bacon’s “Of Youth and Age”; Samuel Johnson’s “Modern Fiction”; and “A Chapter on Ears” by Charles Lamb.
Selections by American writers include “What College Did to Me,” by Robert Benchley; Helen Keller’s “Three Days to See”; Ralph Waldo Emerson’s thoughts upon “The American Scholar”; and “On Unanswering Letters” by Christopher Morley.
In compiling the collection, Professor Smithberger aimed at bringing together essays which he thought would prove most interesting and varied. Li keeping with this desire the selections range from discursive to philosophical to personal types.	"
Another of Professor Smithberger’s desires was to avoid making unnecessary editorial comments. Each essay is preceded by a brief headnote containing a short biography of the author and facts about his literary position and importance. There are exceedingly few footnotes.
Professor Smithberger has been a member of the English faculty here since 1927, When he received his master’s degree. In addition to his recent book, Professor Smithberger collaborated with C. John McCole in producing a book called On Poetry.
May 22, 1953
15
Honor Students Feted at Presidential Dinner; Stephan Cites Chief Tasks of Catholic Laity
The president, vice-presidents, and deans of the University were the hosts to 63 honor seniors Tuesday evening. The occasion, held in the faculty dining room, was a presidential dinner which Father Hesburgh said was motivated by a desire “to show in some special way the recognition of these outstanding students.”
He commented that these men “had given a superior* performance ind consequently merit more than a commendation of cum lauded This dinner was a means of extending this extra congratulations to these honor students.
The steak dinner was followed by a skit by Jerry Godwin and Ron Smith, who entertainingly portrayed the troubles of two freshmen with their dates from St. Mary’s.
The feature of the evening was an address by Mr. Edmond Stephan, an alumnus of the class of 1932. Mr. Stephan, while at Notre Dame, edited the Scholastic and was the runner-up in an annual competition for a Rhodes scholarship. He is a graduate of Harvard law school and is a former Alien Property Custodian for the government. He is a prominent Chicago lawyer who is active in civic and social work.
Mr. Stephan spoke to the seniors about the importance of projecting themselves into society with their Christian principles, which can be reinvigorating principles. He commented that “Even if it is possible for Catholics to stay aloof from social problems, it is not prudent to do so.” He stated that Catholic laymen “have a tremendous responsibility.”
Mr. Stephan cited two specific tasks with which social-minded Catholics might fulfill their responsibility. One is to expel lethargy and indifference from certain less energetic Catholics and to instill the awakening realization into “stodgily conservative” Catholics that social problems do exist and merit the remedies of activated Christians. He assigned a second task to the Catholic layman: to improve relations with non-Catholics. He lamented that “these people genuinely fear us because of the cohesiveness of Catholic communities and growing Catholic power.” This is a fear -which Mr. Stephan says must be' removed. “Our relations with non-Catholic people have need of drastic improvement, and they can be improved without compromising a single doctrine.”
Mr. Stephan’s address was a chal
lenge not only to the 63 seniors but to all Catholic laymen. The Chicago lawyer stated, “As you move out into society, you will find a clash between what you have learned here and what you find in society.” It is the duty of the Catholic layman to try to remove this “clash” without sacrificing principles.
Father Hesburgh characterized the affair by stating that “this dinner is an innovation which I hope will be a tradition at Notre Dame.”
Knights Delegate Rupp To St. Paul Convention
Paul Rupp, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Chapter Knights of Columbus 1477, recently became the first ND man in 23 years to be appointed delegate to the national convention set this year for Aug. 17-19 in St. Paul, Minn.
Rupp, one of eight delegates from Indiana who will be sent to the convention, was selected at the May 16-18 statewide K of C conference held in Lafayette.
While at Lafayette, Rupp headed the resolution committee for the conference which was under the chairmanship of Tom IMedland, state deputy.
On Saturday, the delegates attended a dance held in their honor. Following the Sunday morning Pontifical High Mass which the 3rd and 4th degree knights attended in a body, a business meeeting was held.
The appointment of delegates on Monday concluded the conference. Rupp was accompanied to the Lafayettte convention by John Snakard.
New Staff Takes Command Of AFROTC 'Flying Irish'
Robert Denne has been appointed editor-in-chief of the 1953-54 Flying Irish, campus AFROTC newspaper, it was announced this week. Denne will replace Patrick Riley, who will receive his commission on June 6 at the commencement exercises.
Richard Scherpereel has been named associate editor for make-up, while Donald Mulvihill will serve as associate editor for news.
Charles Tilley has been picked to replace Denne as correspondence editor. Richard Cook and Thomas Welly will assume the duties of distribution editor and sports editor, respectively.
The Flying Irish, was published six times during the past two semesters in its second full year of operation.
Ave Maria's Guentert Ends 50-Year Tenure
Notre Dame will lose one of its oldest and most respected employees in July when Joseph Guentert, foreman of the composing room, will retire after 50 years of service at the printing trade.
Born in the Black Forest Region of southern Germany, Guentert came to the United States when he was twelve years old. He settled in the South Bend area and worked for several printing establishments, including the South Bend Tribune, before coming to the Ave Maria press in 1914.
Guentert was honored by the South Bend Typographical Union as a “50 year member” in 1952.
Announcing Guentert’s retirement, Brother Sabinus, C.S.C., superintendent of the Ave Maria press, said, “It is worth noting that many a time Joe came to work when, under doctor’s orders, he should have remained in bed. But Joe knew that he was needed to carry on the Scholastic and many other publications and fix a linotype on beck and call. The Ave Makia Press is grateful to one who has been so loyal and diligent in every way.” ’ Commenting on his work at Notre Dame, Guentert said, “Throughout my many years at the Ave Maria press, I’ve never had any reason to wish I hadn’t come here. I have enjoyed my association with the “Ave” employees and I appreciate very much the compliment Brother Sabinus has given me.”
Guentert says that he has no hobbies so he just plans to “take it easy” following his retirement.
Student Musical Not 'Farce1; Proceeds Pass $700 Mark
Brute Farce, the annual campus contribution to the white way, has set a new record by netting over $700 during its six presentations recently in Washington Hall.
Business Manager Lester Zaczek complimented the student musical by stating that the “farce” compiled the greatest margin of profit and completed the most performances of any previous student musical.
Ticket sales amounted to $1,825 while program ads added $184 to the income. Expenses totaled $1244; these included: publicity, $117; programs, $170; lights, $243; props, $6; scripts, $12; make up, $5; typing, $45; tickets, $44; orchestra and arrangements, $410; scenery, $122; miscellaneous, $76; and cleaning, 50 cents.
Attendance was best at the Saturday and Tuesday performances.
16
The Scholastic
New Home for the Arts...
An act of faith was dedicated on the campus Saturday, the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. It is an extremely great act of faith in the University because it comes at a time when the liberal arts, as Dr. Gordon K. Chalmers said, “are in danger of reason run amuck and the geometric spirit.” It is an act of faith of a man who says, “The heart of education lies in the College of Liberal and Fine- Arts?’” -
The story of this act of faith starts serial years ago when Mr. O’Shaughnessy was appointed to the Board of Notre Dame’s Lay Trustees. During one of his visits to the campus in this capacity, he questioned Father John J. Cavanaugh, then President of the University, about the Liberal Arts Build-
The Cardinal gives a blessing . . .
ing. Father Cavanaugh answered that there was none, and confessed that the lack of such a building was the weakness of the building program.
It was then that the idea occurrred to Mr. O’Shaughnessy of helping Notre Dame further the liberal arts by providing a building in which to house these studies. He envisioned a building in which not only the liberal arts would be served, but which also would contain class rooms for painting, sculpture, music, and an ait gallery.
Two years ago, the ground was broken for this building, and a year ago, the cornerstone was laid. Last week-end, the story was completed. Friday night, an Academic Convention was held, and Saturday morning Cardinal Stritch dedicated the building to the “Wisdom of God.”
But in a sense, the story has not ended, for now—as O’Shaughnessy said —“These walls will be hallowed by faculty and students whose decent human spirit and high ideals will make this building a very triumph in which wisdom and grace will serve the glory of God.”
Notre Dame expressed its feeling of gratitude to IMr. O’Shaughnessy on a parchment which stands in the Great Hall of the building: “This building is a lasting memorial to the faith and generosity of Ignatius Aloysius O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minnesota —a lasting memorial to his trust in the
liberal and fine arts and in us . . . the long generations of Notre Dame men, students and teachers, who will walk its corridors. In these halls we will learn the slow, quiet—but triumphant—way of truth that will lead us at last to the illuminating vision of the Divine Word. From these halls we will bear the light to reveal to mankind the meaning of all things ... of men and of God and of Christian Wisdom. Let us, therefore, make the donor and his family the constant companions of our consecration; and let us share with them the merits of those who will teach and learn until these walls crumble . . . and darkness becomes light . . . and we gaze together at the face of God, Who is Truth. May God bless and keep the O’Shaughnessys all the days of their lives.”
. . . And now it’s up to the students.
May 22, 1953

The Last Day . . •
The alarm goes off, and as usual you pretend not to hear it. You lie in the sack for a while, trying to bring yourself to the thought of getting up. You finally do make it to your feet, splash some water on your face, throw on some khakis and stumble up to make the last Mass check.
After Mass you check the mail, and then hike off to the chow hall for breakfast. You gulp down your food, and then rush over to your first class, late as usual. You sit through it, and a couple more, but don’t really know
what the profs are saying and don’t really care.
Then you’re through for the day, and you join the rest of the boys for a bull session to talk over the usual gripes and girls. Maybe you play a little golf, but more than likely you hit the sack.
After supper you wander down to Dragoon’s and then come back to study just a little. The lights go out, and you get kind of mad and start to go to bed. Another day has ended—your last at Notre Dame.
BELOW: You've still go to get your three.
—Photos by DuBois and Mackey
BELOW: Even on the last day, it’s your roommate's.
The Scholastic
It may be a review for the final, but there’s little interest in your last class.

Hurry up please, it’s time . . .
It’s a sad day, lads, for tonight the old Zulu goes off the air. This evening at 5:15, the often sarcastic, sometimes subtle Warrior will make his swan song. For the last semester, when not hitting at the University and things more or less sacred, the Zulu laid claim to being the only consistent humorist on campus, filling a void left by Chazz and Jack. We hope that next year WNDU will be able to find a funnyman as good as Zulu, though perhaps, not quite so vitriolic.
Fly Ball . . .
As you couldn’t have failed to notice, Saint Mary’s Soxless girls will play the Notre Dame Perspiration Sox in a softball contest sometime this weekend. Admission will be charged.
This is a rather cute idea that would have been great had it been original. However, in a similar game about a month ago, a bunch of out-of-shape lads clobbered the girls easily. It doesn’t take any great mind to imagine what Frank Leahy’s boys will do, especially with ’Drini in there. Bobby Joseph and Lee Getschow plan to get a little playing in too. We wish everybody luck.
On Time . . .
It’s finally happened. The Summer issue of the Juggler with a new, easier-to-read format is on the newsstands. This edition is just loaded with essays and short stories and book reviews and a table of contents and—just about everything. The issue starts off with a bang-up contributor’s column written by Editor John Elson. Three stories, one by the ever present, ever writing, effervescent John Hellman, and two fine essays by Milt Fisk and Dick Brehl make up the bulk of an edition which Business Manager Leo Cahalan claims, “really exists.” Same quality, same price, and on sale at the caf.
Rings and Things . . .
A bit of trans-Dixie scooting over the weekend proved—interesting. Being woodsy as well as cheap, we spent an evening toddling among the trees of SMC and finally creaked up the stairs of St. Angela’s for a few practice' scenes from Christopher Fry’s translation of a French play, Ring Around the Moon. We couldn’t de
scribe the theatrics as “neat.” In fact, they were rather slow. But they say that a few days of practice is helpful at times. Here’s hoping.
Naturally perceptive lads, we recognized a few of the thespians who haunt the theatre here and abroad. “Gentlemen” Jim Conley and Jim Patterson wandered around with the talented Sylvia Schneider, and the drunken major of Vile Bodies, Frank Jackman, played his usual convincing role. The surprise' element was achieved when Mr. Michael Casey appeared in the dual role of twin brothers, one sensitive, one flighty, in a complicating “affair d’amour.”
And then there were none . . .
Frosh: meeting your roommate and seeing your room . . . meeting the maid . . . National football champs . . . St. Ed’s . . . first pink slips . . . getting campused . . . showing off during first Christmas vacation with new ND jacket . . - blind date at St. Mary’s . . • second semester pink slips . . . counting the' days with anticipation . . . Spring, and the campus can be beautiful.
Soph: great to be back . . . did we choose this room? . . . Purdue spells end . . . Cotillion . . . Michigan State paint raid . . . campused again . . . tripsters see New Orleans . . . Christmas vacation and slightly used ND jacket . . . January finals prove tough . . . Indiana winter—nuff said . . . Spring fever . . . and the monsoons came . . . choose your major . . . another SMC blind date . . . the advent of a fly . . . counting the days with anticipation.
Junior: upperclassman, big man . . . somebody put those frosh in place . . • Indian summer and SMU came, saw and . . . not a pinkie in my major!! . . . snowstoims . . . still room for the faded ND jacket . . . Mardi Gras New Orleans style . . . steady at SMC . . . a dynamic mock convention . . . hard pressed by a full Junior Prom weekend . . . good golf weather . . . still
BORROWERS, PLEASE NOTE
All students who have borrowed monographs from the Department of Guidance must return them by May 26.
counting the days with anticipation.
Senior: ND isn’t so bad . . . largest room I ever had . . . even a Commerce ball . . . hey, Seniors don’t get pinkies, do they? . . . who’s getting married? No! ... no point in taking the rah-rah jacket home this Christmas . . . not six 8:30 classes in my last semester . . . Dorsey and the Mardi Gras . . . Anthony and the Prom . . . time really flew . . . one touch of Summer . . . another interview . . . counting the days with anguish . . . stand in line to enter and stand in line to leave . . . and then there were none.
R. I. P.
As we said in September, this has actually been a short column. It’s only seemed long.
Walt Werner Tyrone Voit Jack Dilenschneider
HUH Mike fete
Whew! — The last column is finally here. Next year my successor, Joe Casurella takes over for me, since the new appointments have been made.
Really, though, it’s been a lot of fun knocking this out every week for the past year. Sometimes I went nuts trying to think of something to say week after week, but more often, I had trouble trying to limit myself to this amount of space. There is an awful lot to running a radio station, even a little one like ours, and I wasn’t able to even scratch the surface in this column. Maybe Joe will have better luck next year.
Every columnist this week and next is saying about the same thing, but graduation is getting close, and any senior has a tendency to look back over four years here at Notre Dame, and try to decide what impressed him most. WNDU, being my main activity, fills the bill for me. The closest friends I’ve made in college have come from the staff, and it’s a good staff all around. There has been a lot of work connected with being a ‘pai-t of the station, but we have all had fun at it. I’ve met people, big and small, that I could have met no other way. I’ve learned a lot, not only about radio but about advertising and promotion in general, and even about the practical business world in general, since WNDU must support itself.
There is a lot to be grateful for too, now that the year is coming to a close. As a member of the staff, I can
22
The Scholastic
thank all of the students here for their loyalty to the station, their interest in it, and just for listening to oui- programs. The listeners we especially appreciate are those who let us know what they like or don’t like about the station.
So thanks, especially to all of those who took the trouble to call us, or send us a postcard complaining, or telling us that you liked something. It helps a lot in planning our program schedule.
And, of course, as a columnist, I’m grateful to those of my friends who have read this regularly. At times it got pretty poor, but I noticed that someone usually told me so when it did, so I must have had readers. It’s good to know that I’m not talking to myself.
All in all, it’s been a good year. The station made a lot of progress in its programming. We’ve been able to ■cement relations with suppliers, artists, and sponsors both in and out of the University.
The Administration, even though we have griped about some tilings, has been very cooperative with us. Biggest of all is the space they allotted us in the new building, and the help they gave us in planning our studios there. There are plenty of problems to be settled next year, but that is what makes working up there interesting.
Congratulations to the new editors of the Scholastic! Best of luck to them and our columnist Joe.
“They told me at the Placement Bureau that you might have work for me.”
May 22 . . . the last issue of the Scholastic . . . and a scant two weeks until graduation. This then is the time for all columnists to sit down, bat out some sentimental words of good cheer to show they really aren’t such bad guys after all, then fold up their typewriters and steal silently away a la Omar.
We, being extremely amenable to tradition in these highly profound last moments, have decided to record our thoughts along those lines just to preserve the tradition of the awe-struck graduate.
A Pretty Good Place
Just two weeks ago tonight, the men of ’53 discovered something that had been hovering in the backs of their minds for some time—namely, that ND isn’t such a bad place after all. Not that after four years, it took the seniorball weekend to bring about a complete catharsis in the graduating senior, but the big weekend will always play a prominent part among his collegiate memories—memories that will enable him to say that the days spent
at Notre Dame were very profitable ones.	•
This sudden shift of thought, according to campus old-timers, is only characteristic of the ND student. The traditional classification goes something like this:
High school senior: “Notre Dame must be a wonderful place. I’m going there if it’s the last thing I do.”
Freshman: “Notre Dame may be great, but not quite as great as I thought.”
Sophomore: “Notre Dame may know a lot, but not near as much as I know.”
Junior: “Notre Dame has absolutely nothing in common with my generation.”
Senior: “Come to think of it, Notre Dame does have its good points.”
Alumnus: “Good old Notre Dame! My sons are going there.”
Looking Forward
And so having almost completed this cycle and shed his shell of cynicism, the average senior, in his more honest moments, finds himself agreeing more and more with the naive high school senior and with the complex grad. The only regret that some might possibly have is that they became too absorbed in the intermediate four stages and did not take full advantage of the many opportunities afforded the Notre Dame student.
In looking back over the past four years it is only natural for one to think in terms of football games, dance weekends, and vacation periods, disregarding the countless nights spent poring over books, courses flunked, and disciplinary actions encountered. One remembers the days of joy and success, but tends to forget those in which he had despaired and in which he had failed. This, of course, is as it should be; yet he cannot disregard the lessons he learned the hard way as well as those he picked up easily. They all left their mark on him, and he will profit by them in the future.
With commencement rapidly approaching it’s only natural to look forward eagerly to the Great Day. At the same' time one cannot help .but look back momentarily with a little nostalgia and remark that he probably never had it so good as he did at Notre (Continued on page 33)
May 22, 1953
23
Memorial Day Mass Honors War Victims
Notre Dame will honor its war dead on Memorial Day with a student remembrance in front of the Memorial door of Sacred Heart Church and participation at a military Mass.
The ceremony will begin at 9:45 a.m. with the informal assembly of the ROTC units and color guards, the Notre Dame Band, and the Moreau Choir. The flag will be presented while the band plays Call to Colors. Church Call will follow’ immediately.
After the memorial Mass, to be celebrated at an altar placed directly in front of the Memorial Door, a volley will be fired to salute the dead. The playing of Taps will complete the annual tribute.
Rev. Matthew’ Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University, urged the erection of this monument and initiation of the service after World War I. The Notre Dame veterans of Foreign Wars approved the idea and University architects drew’ up the plans.
To represent Notre Dame’s part in the world wars, there are the division insignias on the vestibule ceiling, an army helmet, the C.S.C. coat of arms,
. . . Now, this panel is of the latest design and has been tested in many universities. It is the heavy-duty type to take care of heavy or labored panic for exam-time.
the small figureheads of a soldier, sailor, nurse, and doctor.
The door w’as finished in May of 1924, and Father Walsh celebrated the first memorial Mass. Every year since then, it has been an annual custom to dedicate a military Mass to the fallen Irish. In later years the tribute has been augmented in color and in formality by the attendance of Notre Dame’s ROTC units.
Maintenance Crew Begins Freshman Hall Renovation
Next year’s frosh class -will benefit most from the w’ork to be done around campus this Summer according to Rev. Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., head of the maintenance department on campus.
The halls which will house the incoming class next year are Breen-Phillips, Farley, Cavanaugh, and Zahm. Each of these is due to receive a complete painting including rooms and corridors. In some of these halls the work has already begun in the corridors.
Badin w’ill also come in for its share of maintenance this summer as the new' flooring which w’as begun last year
is completed. Workmen are now repairing the gutters on Badin hall and expect to complete the job before the end of the school year.
The Student Center will also figure in this summer’s work as the electricians revamp the lighting system. The exact plan to be followed in this work has yet to be chosen from those submitted by students.
The ground crew’s, in addition to their regular duties, W’ill seed the areas around the Nieuwdand Science Building and O’Shaughnessy Hall now- that sidewalks are completed.
Feminine Famine Ends At Cavanaugh Social
Last Sunday night 125 citizens of the famed metropolis of St. Mary’s College crossed the Dixie to attend the Cavanaugh Hall Mixer at the Vetville Recreation Hall. Cavanaugh’s entertainment committee w’as headed by Jim Norton.
The traditional atmosphere W’as reversed wdth the girls outnumbering the boys to mark a historic occasion in Notre Dame mixer history. Ron Coury, president of Cavanaugh Hall, estimated that there w’ere about “one and a half girls to every boy.”
Father Thomas Cady, C.S.C., rector of Cavanaugh, and Miss Schmiel, Assistant Dean of Women at St. Mary’s, chaperoned the dance. Father Cady took direct action against the ungre-garious tendencies of the proverbial w’allflowers w’hen he jokingly threatened to “campus them for a W’eek.”
Jim Toohey of the third floor of Cavanaugh wron the door prize of two free passes to the Avon theater. Jim laughed and said, “I’ve got two passes and seven exams for next week.”
A light luncheon supplemented the Sunday night supper at the Dining-hall.
Jerry Roccapriore paid tribute to the last social event of Cavanaugh Hall with the fitting words that “these guys never had it so good, and it’s a great refresher course for finals.”
Spirits w’ere high throughout the mixer. Carl Peters looked around and said, “this is too much.” Jim Bigelow-mentioned that “wre nearly got an inverse proportion to w’ork from.” The only sad comments about the affair were heard from the weekend commuters traveling the Notre Dame-Chicago line. The appropriate words W’ere furnished by Bernie Smith wrho commented sadly, “Wish I W’as there.”
The Dixie Damsels made their sad adieus at a much too early 10.30 p.m.

The Scholastic
Irish Nine Out to Regain Batting Eye
MARK TREMBLAY	ROGER BRAUN
Notre Dame's Version of the “Bust ’em” Twins
Wilsonmen Host Big State Meet Tomorrow, Closed Central Collegiate Following Saturday
BY WARREN ASHBAUGH
Notre Dame’s ever-improving track team, which is undefeated in outdoor dual meets, will play host to the Big State Meet tomorrow and the closed Central Collegiate Conference meet next Saturday. The Wilsonmen then travel up to Milwaukee June 6 to participate in the Open CCC.
According to Wilson, Indiana will provide the stiffest competition for the Irish. The meet annually proves a triangular clash between Indiana, Purdue, and the Irish. Ball State, Wabash, DePauw, Hanover, Butler, and Franklin are also entered but since these smaller Hoosier schools usually send only their best men the first three places seem pretty well decided.
Although the outcome of some of tomorrow’s events seem to be foregone conclusions, many of the other contests are expected to be closely contested.
Fred Watson of Indiana seems best
in the 100-yard dash but Jim Pitcav-age of Notre Dame and Knepper of Purdue, who also excel in the 220-yard dash, are expected to provide stiff competition.
The mile should be a wide open race between Jack Alexander of Notre Dame and Zellers and Lamburt of Indiana.
In the high hurdles Harvey New-quist and Capt. Ed Powell of Notre Dame and Hughes of Purdue should battle it out. Dane Martin of Indiana will join that trio of competitors in the low hurdles.
In the middle distance runs, Harley Youtsey of Purdue seems by far the best in the 440 and Jack Hogan of Indiana should cop the 880.
Two more Indiana men, Harper and Bergman, are favorites in the high jump and shot put respectively.
(Continued on page 31)
MSC Next Opponent; NCAA Bid Possible
BY BILL NOONAN
Unless the possibility of an NCAA tournament bid becomes a reality, Notre Dame’s baseball team will wind up its 19-53 season within the next two weeks, facing three opponents in return engagements. The Irish, who have been striving to break out of a hitting slump, will play Michigan State next Wednesday, Western Michigan on June 2, and Great Lakes on June 6. All the games will be at home.
The Klinemen will be seeking revenge against both Michigan teams. State upset ND at Lansing on May 6 by an 8-5 score while Western edged the Irish, •5-3 at Ypsilanti last Saturday. In their first meeting with Great Lakes, ND slammed out a 13-8 win.
None of these games will have any bearing on the possibility of Notre Dame’s gaining a berth in the NCAA playoffs. The teams will be selected this weekend; "and—air last" reports if'had not been definitely decided how many teams the selecting committee would pick to represent District Four. There is a chance only one team might be selected. If that is the case, the winner of the Big Ten will probably be chosen.
Either Stan Konopka oi- Jim Gibbons will probably get the assignment from Coach Kline to salvage the final with MSC.
The Spartan nine doesn’t boast an impressive record. In the first 20 games, Coach John Kobs’ team won only six. First baseman Chuck Matthews has been the Green and White’s big gun so far. In 19 games, Matthews has hit the ball at a .311 clip. Captain Bob Dilday is the big Spartan run producer -with 14. He’s batting .286.
Western Michigan is another team which has a chance for an NCAA berth. Their victory over ND last Saturday was their 10th in 13 starts and at present they lead the MidAmerican conference race. Last year
May 22, 1953
25
L
the Broncos won the District Four NCAA playoffs.
Western’s best hitter is cleanup man, Dave Gottschalk, a second baseman who was named to the 1952 All-American second team. Gottschalk chipped in with two hits against the Irish in the first game. Ron Jackson, first base, and Juane Emaar, right field, are other men to watch. Emaar, a converted pitcher, helped beat the Irish the first time with a long two-run homer.
The Bronco pitching staff is heavily dotted with left-handers. One of them, Ron Davies, pitched fine ball against Notre Dame last Saturday.
Off their performance against the Irish, on May 9, Great Lakes seems to have plenty of power but little pitching. Shortstop Jimmy Jones who hit .347 last year and Barry Siega, an outfielder rate as the major Sailor-threats at the plate.
Last week, the Irish bats, which had been sizzling, suddenly cooled off. On May 13, Coach Kline’s men managed only one hit, but that was enough to beat Northwestern, 5-4 as Stan Konopka hung up his seventh straight victory without a loss. The Irish blow was a big one, a triple by Dick Rosenthal in the five-run sixth with the bases loaded. The wild-man tactics of two Wildcat relief pitchers contributed much to ND’s triumph.
Notre Dame continued to have trouble with Michigan teams on May 14 when the University of Michigan nipped the Irish, 3-2 with a run in each of the last two innings. An umpire’s decision cost the Irish the game in the bottom of the ninth. Pinch-hitter Stan Konopka seemed to have won the game for ND with a three-run homer over (Continued on page 29)
LEN LEROSE ROUNDS THIRD Michigan Won Anyway, 3-2
Ne+ters Take Three; Bow to Hoosiers, 6-3
Notre Dame’s tennis team easily defeated Marquette, Western Michigan, and Detroit on successive days last week before bowing to Indiana Monday 6-3.
The Irish shut out Marquette last Thursday 9-0 in a one sided match. In sweeping every match Wally Clarke beat Bernie Schubert 6-2, 6-3; Ken Angyal topped Wayne Allwardt 6-2, 6-4; Maurice Reidy downed Dan Pfister 6-3, 6-3; Dick Sims defeated Tom Felton 6-1, 6-1; Bill Readle won over Jack Alafano 6-1, 7-5; and Don Kennedy defeated Bert Biehoff.
In the doubles competition Clarke and Readle teamed to top Schubert and Biehoff 6-0 and 6-2. Angyal and Simons beat Allwardt and Pfister 6-0 and 6-1, and Gallagher and Kennedy bettered Felton and Alafano 6-1 and 6-2.
In Friday’s victory over Western Michigan the Irish nettmen allowed the Broncos only one match win, defeating them 8-1.
Clarke beat Jack Verdevelt 4-6, 6-4, and 6-1; Angyal downed Dick Hendershott 6-4 and 6-2; Ray Smith topped Bob Nuding 6-3 and 6-1; Reidy won over Charlie Church 6-2 and 6-2; and Bill Reale beat Lee Cox 6-3 and 6-1.
Western Michigan did manage to salvage one match when George Carpenter edged Matt Tuite 6-3, 6-8, and 6-1.
In the doubles Notre Dame again won all three matches. Clarke and Reidy combined to down Vredevelt and Hendershott 6-0 and 6-3. Angyal and Smith beat Nuding and Church 6-3 and 6-3 while Gallagher and Kennedy won over Carpenter and Cox 6-3 and 7-5.
Last Saturday rain shortened the Detroit match but not before Langford’s forces cinched the contest 6-0.
Clarke beat Wood 6-2 and 6-3 while Angyal defeated Lane 6-3 and 6-1. Smith edged Rauscher 7-5 and 6-4 and Reidy toppled Kearns 6-0 and 6-1. Gallagher dropped Kaznecki 6-3 and 6-4; Simons won over Wayne 6-1 and 6-4.
The Irish victory skein was broken last Monday by Indiana 6-3. The Hoosiers limited the Irish netters to two singles victories and one doubles win.
In the single matches Glazer of Indiana downed Smith 6-2, 3-6, and 6-3; Baker topped Tuite of ND 6-2 and 6-4 and Bennett of Indiana won over Crowley 6-4 and 6-2.
In Notre Dame’s only two singles wins Angyal defeated Hironimus 2-6, 6-4, and 6-4 and Reidy bettered Martain 2-6, 11-9, and 8-6.
REMAINING SPORTS SCHEDULE
May 23 TRACK—Big State Meet
at N. D.
TENNIS—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
GOLF-—Iowa at Iowa
May 25 GOLF — Northwestern at Evanston
May 27 BASEBALL — Michigan State at Notre Dame
May 30 TRACK — Closed CCC at Notre Dame
June 2 BASEBALL — W e s t e rn Michigan at Notre Dame
June 6 BASEBALL—Great Lakes at N.D.
TRACK—Open CCC at Milwaukee
June 14 TRACK—NCAA at Lincoln, Nebraska
June 21-27 GOLF—NCAA at Colorado Springs
June 22-27 TENNIS—NCAA at Syracuse, N. Y.
Golfers Down Badgers, Purdue on Irish Course
Notre Dame’s golf team chalked up-their sixth and seventh victories of the season after recent wins over Wisconsin and Purdue. Holderith’s forces defeated the Badgers by a 15%-11% margin on the Burke Memorial Course, and then eked out a 14-13 decision over < Purdue in anothei' home match.
In the meet against Wisconsin the Irish gained the edge in the doubles competition by a 5-4 margin, and then, went on to capture the singles, ! 10%-7%. Captain Tom Matey had a perfect day as he teamed with Joe	j
Moresco for a 3-0 victory in the mom-	j
ing doubles, and then defeated Doug | Koepeke of the Badgers, 2%-% in the j afternoon round. His subpar round of j 69 in the doubles and his even par 71 I in the singles gave him a two under ; par 140 for the 36 holes. Jim Terry of Notre Dame also fired a 71 in the singles to tie with Matey for low scoring honors.
The Summary
Doubles
Tom Matey (69) and Joe Moresco- I (70), ND defeated Doug Koepeke (74) and Wayne Hudson (75), 3-0. Jack Powers (76) and Larry Eaton (74), ND, split with Bob Bruse (74) and ; Bud Baker (79), 1%-1% Phil Schoen- ' beck (76) and Jim Tanner (69), defeated John Foley (72) and Jim Terry (71), 2%-%.
Singles
(Matey (71), ND defeated Koepeke (74), 2%-%; Moresco (75), ND defeated Bruce (81), 2-1; Terry (71), ND defeated Tanner (74), 2-1; Eaton
The Scholastic
26
PAT CUTTER, DIANE CROSS . . . And a Pass or Two
(72), ND defeated Schoenbeck (77), 2%-%; Hanson (76), W. defeated Powers (77), 2-1; Baker- (76), W. defeated Foley (77), 2%-%.
An amazing two under par round of 69 by Don Albert of Purdue, and a 10%-7% Purdue edge in the singles was not enough, as the Irish gained the margin of victory by virtue of their substantial 6%-2% lead in the doubles event in the morning round. One over par 72’s by Joe Moresco and Jim Terry of the Irish were the lowest scores carded by an ND player. Dick Norton of Purdue was second in low gross with an even par 71.
The Summary:
Doubles
Tom Matey (71) and Joe Moresco (73), Notre Dame, split with Don Albert (70), and Bob Benning (73), 1%-1%.
Paul Minnich (74) and Jim Terry (70), Notre Dame, defeated Dick Morton (78) and Charles Houff (74), 2%-%.
Larry Eaton (77) and Jack Powers (73), Notre Dame, defeated Ron Pierce (76) and Bob Krueger (75), 2%-%. Singles
Don Albert (69), P. defeated Tom Matey (73), 3-0; Joe Moresco (72), ND defeated Bob Benning (75), 2-1; Dick Norton (71), P. defeated Jim Terry (72), 2-1; Larry Eaton (73), ND defeated Ron Pierce (77), 3-0; Charles Houff (73), P. defeated Jack Powers (75), 2-1; Bob Krueger (73), P. defeated Mike Doyle (76), 2%-%.
Notre Dame now has two meets left before the NCAA Championships at Colorado Springs on June 21-27. The Irish linksters face Iowa at Iowa City on May 23, and then end the season against Northwestern at Evanston on May 25.
Charity Softball Match Pits Irish Sweat Sox Against Amazon Athletes at SMC Saturday
St. Mary’s League Park directly behind LeMans Hall is the site for tomorrow’s first intercollegiate softball match between the fun-filled St. Mary’s No-Sox and Notre Dame’s hilarious Sweat-Sox. The contest, which will get underway at approximately 2 p.m., is being sponsored by St. Mary’s for the benefit of foreign students on the campus. Ducats for the affair at 25 cents each can be purchased in 254 and 126 Alumni or preceding game time.
Claiming to be better than the average girls’ softball team, except the Blue Sox, St. Mary’s starting array comprises ten of the best athletes across the Dixie. Position by position the interested spectator will see Gloria Vidotto underhanding the 16-inch balloon ball to catcher Pat Cutter, the shortest member of the No-Sox.
Around the infield will be Diane Cross at first, Snooks Hargrove at second, Terese Fabbri, St. Mary’s leading slugger, at third, and Mary Lou Wheeler at shortstop. If any Blue Sox happen to be present, St. Mary’s might have a hard time persuading its terrific feminine infielders that it’s not nice to play for money.
Holding down the four outfield slots for the No-Sox will be C. C. Shaughnessy in left; Pat Touhey in center; Manager Rita (Babe) Herrmann in right, and Barb Rhinehart in short center. In case Miss Vidotto isn’t go
NO-SOX WITH BEST (BARE) FOOT FORWARD
Plenty of Curves . . .
ing to start for St. Mary’s, Mary Fran Koehnemann will take over the pitching chores.
Other squad members include Ann Korb, Mary Lou Emge, Joan Nolan, Peg Fredericks, Cissy Follis, Betty Craft, Mary Gerhold and Ann Mar-baugh.
Outdoing the No-Sox in big name sport stars will be Notre Dame’s Sweat-Sox, a brawny collection of football and basketball players all wondering the same thing—what to do with Chicago’s version of the softball (that 16-inch grapefruit). Leading the sports parade for the Irish tomorrow afternoon will be footballers Don Penza (capt.), Neil Worden, Jack Alessandrini, Bobby Joseph, Frank Varrichione, Joe Heap, Art Hunter, Ralph Guglielmi, Jim Schrader, Jack Whelan, Lee Getschow, and Tom McHugh.
Basketball luminaries certain to see action against the No-Sox lassies will be Bill Sullivan, Ed McGinn, Joe Bertrand, Jack Stephens and Gerry McCloskey.
According to publicity agent Tom Parsley, the umpires for tomorrow’s fanfare will be Father Brennan behind the plate and Father Lane on the basepaths. In case they need help, Parsley himself will be available for duty.
May 22, 1953
27
By Jack Sand
ND Sports Hit New Peak During 1952-53
Before the start of the 1952 football campaign, Notre Dame athletic chiefs and fans as well couldn’t help but wonder how the Irish were going to fare as the season went along. Everything was just one great big question mark. Then came the never-to-be-forgotten Oklahoma game. Whatever doubts remained in the minds of those who questioned Notre Dame’s capabilities were completely erased. The Irish eventually concluded the season with seven wins, two losses and one tie, and it became apparent that this was Notre Dame’s year.
Basketball season proved this statement to be more than accurate as Johnny Jordan’s eagers compiled the best hardwood record since 1946, in winning 19 and losing only five. A well-earned NCAA tournament bid was then thrown in for good measure, with the Irish advancing to the regional finals against Indiana. Throughout the latter part of the basketball season Notre Dame’s fencers were fast becoming the winningest Irish team as they thrust their way to 13 successive triumphs only to lose io Illinois in their final match.
With the advent of spring Notre Dame teams continued to roll. Jake Kline’s baseball forces jumped off to one of their fastest starts in 20 years as they won their first six ball games, and up to the present have registered 14 wins, six losses and one tie. Not breaking any records, but winning just the same have been ND’s golfing wizards, who up to and including the Purdue Match last Monday have posted a 7-1-1 mark.
Not including track which is run mainly in relay fashion, Notre Dame’s overall record has been something to boast about. Tennis has been the only odd ball, with its four and four mark, marring an otherwise excellent percentage of .771, compiled on 64 victories and only 19 defeats.
Tops in Their Field
Along with outstanding records must evidently go some outstanding performers. Thus the Irish sports parade was started by FOOTBALL... and Johnny Lattner, the All-American boy, who’s an All-American in every way; and Dan Shannon, the best tackler ever seen on the stadium turf. BASKETBALL . . . the “Big Four,” Rosenthal, Bertrand, Lewinski, and Stephens who broke all previous scoring marks, and routed DePaul in the hottest shooting exhibition ever witnessed in the fieldhouse. BASEBALL . . . Stan Konopka, Notre Dame’s undefeated hurler (8-0), and second sacker Dick Colloton, the flashy fielding genius, not to mention Roger Braun, the record-smashing slugger. TRACK . . . Who else but the nation’s two best pole vaulters, Jim Harrington (14’3”) and Joe Springer (14’1”), plus hurdling Harvey Newquist, another top competitor.
Prescriptions and Remedies for ’53-54
First on the list would be the cure-all for all ailments... that is, beat Michigan State in something ... (2) stop Indiana’s Don Schlundt ... (3) disregard the NCAA Rules Committee ... (4) a few right-handed batters on next season’s diamond brigade . . . (5) Drop Illinois from the fencing schedule ... (6) a southern trip for the tennis team so they can get in a little more practice ... (7) an intercollegiate boxing team to satisfy a grand bunch of “fighting” Irish . . . (8) God bless our pole vaulters.
It seems the time has come to hang up the typewriter and stop predicting, but before doing so, a million thanks are in order to all those who supplied much of the information and inspiration throughout the year: the Sports Publicity Dept., with chief Charlie Callahan, Maura Mills, Bill Londo' and Jim Sherer receiving the honors. Thanks also to Joe Doyle, Sports Editor of the South Bend Trib, Bill Noonan, the ablest assistant in the business, and Ken Murphy, unheralded Sports Ed. of the Dome who proof read the only column of the year that appeared in print with a mistake in it.
Peters in No-Hit Tilt; Playoffs Near Finale
A 1-0 no-hitter by ace hurler Louis Peters was all Lyons baseball team needed to force the playoffs into the rubber games, as both the interhall baseball and softball leagues neared completion in the final week of tournament play.
Under the direction of Ernie Szekely, a double-elimination tournament was held, and from a field of 12 teams the baseball leagues were narrowed down to a battle beween Lyons and Morrissey. In the first tilt between the two finalists, Morrissey squeezed past Lyons by a 4-2 margin, but the Lyons’ nine bounced on the strength of Peters’ nohitter to tie up the series at one apiece.
Peters pitched brilliantly throughout the encounter, and it was not until the ninth inning that Morrissey really threatened. With two men on base and two outs Peters faced his hill rival. However Peters tightened in the clutch and set his opposing hurler down on strikes.
Lyons got their lone run of the day when sceond-baseman John O’Connor singled. A little later he stole second, went to third on an erratic pick-off play by the Morrissey catcher, and streaked home on John Murray’s squeeze sacrifice. The final game was to have been played off for the baseball crown last Wednesday.
In the softball league, Mr. Maxwell shaved the original field of 30 entries down to three teams. In the Blue League, Alumni’s flashy nine finished the season without a blemish to gain the right to enter the semifinal playoffs. They opposed Badin, the Gold league title-holders in the semi-final match.
Dillon appeared to be a cinch to cop the Gold championship title, finishing the season undefeated. However, all their games were forfeited because of several ineligible players listed on their1 squad roster. The nod to represent the Gold sluggers in the playoffs then went to the Badin nine who finished close behind.
In the Club League The Irish Club went undefeated in the round-robin competition. This division started out with seven teams, but when several of the entries dropped it was necessary for Mr. Maxwell to set up a new one round double-elimination tournament.
The Detroit Club gained the number-one spot in the City League. The Irish Club then tangled with the Detroit Club and emerged 5-2 victors with the right to face the winner of the Alumni-Badin clash.
28
The Scholastic
Diamond Fans Toast Kline With Testimonial Next Week
Head baseball coach Clarence J. Kline will be honored next Tuesday when the baseball fans of the Michiana area observe “Jake Kline Day.”
Kline, who is completing his 20th year- as head Irish mentor, will be lauded both in a short ceremony before Tuesday’s Western Michigan game and at a testimonial dinner at the Morris Inn that night.
Joe Boland, local sportscaster who played tackle for the Irish during the Four Horsemen era, will be the chairman for the affair.
During his college days here at Notre Dame Kline played from 1915 through 1917 and was captain of the 1917 team. He was the regular Irish third baseman during that time and always hit well over .300.
After graduation Kline served overseas with the Infantry in World War I.
Kline embarked on his coaching career with the directorship of the Prep Athletics at Notre Dame during the 1920-’21 seasons. From 1922 until 1931, when he returned to his alma mater as freshman coach, Kline played with and managed professional teams in the midwest and on the west coast. He was appointed head coach in 1934, succeeding the late George E. Keogan.
Kline plans to coach a summer camp made up of collegiate players in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.
Baseball
(Continued from page 26)
Cartier Field’s left field fence, but the arbitrator ruled the drive foul despite the fact that it seemed to every other observer that it was definitely fair.
Jim Gibbons who pitched a good game was the losing hurler for the Irish. His balk in the top of the ninth helped Michigan pick up the winning run. Improving Dick Rosenthal led Notre Dame hitters with two singles. An interesting but disheartening factor from ND’s standpoint was the fact that the Irish left 13 men stranded.
Western Michigan’s Davies was pretty much the story in the aforementioned 5-3 win over ND last Saturday. He was touched for seven hits but was tough in the clutch as the Irish again left 13 men on base. The Broncos scored three runs in the second, one A in the third and one in the fifth, while Notre Dame picked up two in the fourth, on George Kolasa’s pinch single, and one in the fifth. Dave Costigan got two hits for the Irish. Jerry Donnelly was the starting and losing pitcher.
Notre Dome Baseball Statistics
BATTING
	(20 games, up to Purdue game, May 19)					2b	3b	HR	Avg.
	G	AB	R	H	RBI				
John Reynolds, p 			 3	2	0	1	0	0	0	0	.500
Roger Braun, If 			 20	83	19	29	27	6	3	1	.349
Jerry Donnelley, p ....		 4	9	2	3	1	0	0	0	.333
Joe Ridge, cf 			 8	34	7	11	6	0	0	0	.333
Mark Tremblay, cf ....		 15	48	4	15	11	5	2	0	.312
Dick Colloton, 2b ....		 20	76	25	23	13	3	2	0	.302
Dave Costigan rf 			 19	82	14	22	6	2	0	0	.268
George Kolasa, ss ....		 6	8	1	2	2	0	0	0	.250
Jim Dalton, p 		2	4	0	1	0	0	0	0	.250
Dick Rosenthal, lb ....		 20	82	20	20	16	0	4	1	.243
Hal Reilly, ss 			 18	68	12	16	9	1	1	0	.235
Stan Konopka, p 			 13	34	2	8	6	0	0	0	.235
Dick Farrell, c 			 6	13	1	3	0	1	0	0	.231
Len LeRose, 3b 			 20	87	20	20	11	0	2	0	.229
Roger Allan, 2b, ss ....		 4	10	1	2	2	0	0	0	.200
Jim Pavis, p 			 3	5	1	1	0	0	0	0	.200
Dick Gaberik, c 			 17	57	6	11	3	2	0	0	.191
Jim Gibbons, p 			 6	18	2	2	1	0	0	0	.111
Bob O’Neil, p 			 3	3	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Gerry Smith, p 			 1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Ron Mottl, n 			 1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Tom Pettersch, c 			 1	1	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Notre Dame Totals ..		 20	724	137	190	114	20	14	2	.262
Opponents’ Totals ....		 20	699	89	183	78	16	10	4	.261
	PITCHING				H	W	L	Pct.
	G	IP	SO	W				
Stan Konopka 			10	77 1/3	41	32	74	7	0	1.000
Jerry Donnelley 			 4	191/3	11	19	16	2	1	.667
Jim Gibbons 			 6	45	30	13	49	3	3	.500
Jim Pavis 			 3	14	7	7	22	1	1	.500
Jim Dalton 		2	8 2/3	9	8	12	0	1	.000
Bob O’Neil 				 3	51/3	5	5	4	0	0	.000
John Reynolds 		2	5 1/3	2	2	4	0	0	.000
Gerry Smith 			 1	2	0	1	2	0	0	.000
Ron Mottl 			 1	1	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Notre Dame Totals 			26	178	105	82	183	13	6	.684
Opponents Totals 			20	178	89	102	190	6	13	.315
IRISH STARTING ARRAY ON ROUTE TO BEST SEASON SINCE ’49
Costigan, LeRose, Colloton, Rosenthal, Braun, Tremblay, Reilly, Gaberik, Konopka.
May 22, 1953
29
Knott to Continue as WNDU 1953-54 Manager; Ryan and Byrne Recipients of Speech Awards
Prof. Jerome A. Fallon, director of Radio, announced at the station’s annual banquet last week that Tom Knott would continue as manager for WNDU next year. At the same time he announced two special awards given by the speech department this year to former station manager, Bill Ryan, and technical director, Ted Byrne.
Fifteen Receive Awards
These two awards were given for the work these men had done for the station during the past few years. This is the first year that such awards have been given, and they are additions to the awards that WNDU annually gives to its own members who have done outstanding work.
The annual WNDU awards were given to 15 staff members. The recipients were Joe Enzler, Bill “Zulu Warrior” Santoro, Kevin Joyce, Andy Hernon, Frank Corey, John Cox, Dave Pfaff, Dick Beeman, John O’Meara, Leo Zatta, Jim Bergquist, Pat Tobin, Bryan Coughlin, Jack Wilcox, and Bill Beauchamp.
Tom Knott announced that the heads of nine departments would remain the same next year, and appointed four men to replace the four graduating seniors who now head departments.
Joe Daly will take over for Jim Gannon as sports director. Daly has been doing the color work for Gannon on many play-by-play broadcasts as well as doing some events on his own, and handling his share of sports news during the year.
McShane Replaces Corey
John McShane, a junior who has been with the Student Voice for three years and recognized as one of the station’s top engineers, will be chief program engineer in the fall. He replaces Frank Corey who graduates in June.
Bob Simkins, top news announcer and head of the special events division of the news department this year, will be the news editor in the fall. Besides handling the various newscasts this year, the burden of most of the special news programs and the collection of campus news has fallen to Simkins. He replaces another graduating senior, Andy Hernon.
To allow for the expanding staff and the increased publicity program next year caused by the station’s move to the O’Shaughnessy Building, this year’s public relations department, headed by
Bryan Coughlin, will be split next year. Joe Casurella, a freshman who has been working in the public relations department this year, and has been in charge of most of the on-campus publicity for the station, will take over the position of publicity director in the fall.
Casurella has had experience this year in writing for both radio and publications, and will write the “WNDU Mike Chatter” column next year for the Scholastic.
The new department will be called the public and personnel relations department, but a man to head it has not yet been appointed.
Studies Institute Announces Foreign Travel-Study Tours
The Institute of European Studies has announced two summer travel programs and three study-travel programs for 1953-54.
The Institute has employed several competent European scholars to act as guides for the programs designed to provide the student with a true insight of European life.
The study programs introduce the students to European problems of politics, economics, and culture. In the five-and-one-half-month or nine-month program, students will travel throughout Europe and also take courses taught in English at the University of Vienna.
The non-profit organization also offers a nine country travel program which includes a week in Austria, 18 days in Italy, two weeks in Spain, one week in North Africa, and six days in Paris. The student price for this 61-day program is $760. The dates of departure for this program are June 17, 25, and July 1, 8. All transportation for this program is by air.
The European Highlight Travel-Program introduces the student to France, Italy, Austria, Spain, Germany, England, and North Africa. The boat will leave Sept. 15 for 35 days. Total price for this trip will be $695.
The Three Study Programs give the student an opportunity to live and study in Vienna, and see nine countries. Student price for a full academic year of 10 months is $1,100, and $985 for a five-and-one-half-month semester.
If any further information is desired, please write to Mr. Clarence Giese, 7325 South Maryland, Chicago 19, Ill.
Architects Will Hear Wright Speak Tonight
Frank Lloyd Wright, noted architect, will deliver an address this evening at 8:30 in Washington Hall to open a meeting of the Indiana architects.
Wright’s appearance will be sponsored jointly by the University and the Architects of St. Joseph Valley. He will speak on the eve of the annual meeting of the Indiana Society of Architects to be held on campus tomorrow.
Considered one of the world’s foremost architects, Wright has been responsible for many innovations in architecture, such as radiant heated floor tiles, interior decoration of kitchens and bathrooms, elimination of corners through use of curved glass, and many other features common to modern designing.
Priceless Opportunity
“Mr. Wrights, appearance in this area is a priceless opportunity to see, hear and know one of America’s truly great men,” says Paul Jernegan, chairman of the Architects of the St. Joe Valley. “Still vigorously creative in his 80’s, his very age underlines the importance of this appearance. An opportunity like this may conceivably never be offered again.”
Wright is also noted as a writer, teacher, and philosopher, and is concerned more with the search for a guiding principle behind his innovations, than with the innovations themselves. He is a strong advocate of imagination and individuality, and opposes adherence to a “style.”	;
Although ovei- 80, Wright is still	i
active in architecture as well as mak-	!
ing lectures and appearances around < the country. He was recently named to : receive the annual Gold Medal for . Architecture from the National Institute of Arts and Letters.	■
i;
Works On Display	>
Models and photographs	of Wright’s	'!
work will be on display in the Univers- : ity galleries in the new I. A. O’Shaugh-	;
nessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.	i
The architects also will inspect two South Bend homes designed by Wright. . ■
The K. C. DeRhodes home, built in L 1906, is regarded as an outstanding ; • example of Wright’s early work. The i H. T. Mossberg home, built in 1951,	.
^was featured in the December, 1952 J issue of Architectural Forum.
Phillip Will, Jr., president of the I i Chicago chapter of the American In- ; stitute of	Architects will	speak on	i
“The Future of Architects” at the meet-	J
ing of the	Indiana Society	tomorrow.	j
1
The	Scholastic	I
30
Steel Company Trains Execs in Aid Program
Notre Dame has been selected by the Bethlehem Steel Co. to participate in its program of financial assistance to colleges and universities.
Based on the principle of “financial aid in proportion to value received,” the new program will grant payments of $3000 to the University for each graduate selected by Bethlehem in its annual training program for college graduates.
The program has been offered to approximately 45 privately endowed colleges and universities from which Bethlehem has previously recruited candidates for its training program. Payments made under the plan may be used by the Universities as they decide.
The training program, known as the Bethlehem Loop course, provides preliminary training designed to acquaint the college graduate with business as a whole and thus fit him for future advancement. The Loop course was founded 30 years ago, and was one of the earliest training programs of its kind. Over 100 men per year are normally taken into the course.
In announcing the establishment of the program, Mr. E. G. Grace, chairman of the Bethlehem Steel Co., said “Through financial assistance under this plan, Bethlehem will in effect be giving recognition to the fact that a graduate costs a college more than it receives in tuition and other fees, and that the college graduate’s education makes him a valuable asset in the conduct of Bethlehem’s business.”
The aim of the program is “to provide an increasing number of college graduates for industrial leadership,” according to iMr. Grace. “If our industrial progress is to continue,” he added, “more and more educated men are going to be needed, and it is important that the colleges be in a position to supply them.”
dent presented the Academy’s three annual awards for scholastic achievement within the department, outstanding leadership within the department, and outstanding achievement in promoting student government.
The outgoing president, Paul Braun-lich, was feted with the scholastic award. James Applegate received the leadership award, and upon Student Senate President Tom Reedy was conferred the award for outstanding furtherance of student government.
The retiring officers, besides Braun-lich, are Vice-President Joseph Clancy and Secretary Dan Kennedy.
Speakers Choose Mahoney To Head Bureau for ’53-'54
John Mahoney, junior fine arts major from Chicago, was recently elected to serve as next year’s president of the Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau. Mahoney has been a member of the Bureau for two years and served this past year as its publicity chairman.
In a pre-election statement Mahoney pledged continuation of the present programs of the Bureau. He emphasized his particular desire to place more importance on practice and speaking opportunities than has been afforded thus far.
Pete Caruso, sophomore from Lyons Hall and a student in the General Program, was picked to assist Mahoney as vice-president. Charley Conway, a freshman engineer who resides in Farley Hall, was chosen as the new secretary; and Jim Gibbons, a soph-more AB man from Cavanaugh Hall, is the new treasurer.
Out-going officers are: Bill Riley, president; Larry Tarpey, vice-president; and Bob Kosidar, treasurer. Gibbons, the new treasurer, served as this year’s secretary.
Track
(Continued from page 25)
Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, Irish ace pole vaulters, are expected to finish one-two in clearing the' bar, and Jack Shay and Jack Saranno of the Irish are rated tops in the discus, while Maltheus of Purdue and Wellman of Indiana are the big men in the two-mile run.
Next Saturday the closed CCC meet will be held here with about 10 teams competing.
Although only Loyola and Western Michigan are entered so far, Michigan Normal, Marquette, Bradley, and Wheaton, a new conference member, are expected to register.
On June 6 the Wilsonmen travel to Marquette for the open CCC meet. Most of the previous week’s entries plus the Big Ten teams are expected to take part.
The annual NCAA meet at Lincoln, Neb., will be the season’s finale for the ND thinclads. Jim Harrington and Joe Springer will be the only Irish representatives; however both are expected to fare well. Harrington holds the best collegiate pole vault mark of the year with 14’3%” and Springer is rated third with 14’1”.
Last Saturday the Irish copped their third dual meet in a row as they edged the Marquette Hilltoppers 71-70.
The meet was a see-saw battle until the discus throw. Jack Shay and Jack Soranno took first and third in that event to overcome the Hilltoppers’ two-point lead.
Although the Irish were able to win only five of the 15 events they never finished behind second and were able to finish one-two in the pole vault and the 120-yard high hurdles.
Political Science Academy Elects Welsh '53-'54 Head
Political Science' majors recently elected George Welsh to be the president of the Political Science Academy for the coming year. The' New Kensington, Pa., junior will serve with Thomas McKeon of Temple, Tex., who was elected vice-president.
Welsh acted as treasurer this year in the organization. Elections for the offices of secretary and treasurer ■will not be held until next semester.
Yesterday evening the Academy held a dinner dance at the Oliver Hotel. At this time the newly-elected presi-
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
May 22, 1953
31
AB Ball on Pitt Weekend Opens '53-'54 Social Life
The first annual Arts and Letters Ball on Oct. 16 has been announced as the initial major dance of the fall social season. The first home game with Pittsburgh on Saturday afternoon will be an added attraction for the ballgoers.
Newly-elected A.B. Senator, Fran Meaney, has appointed Tom Moore as chairman. Moore, an A.B. junior, was a candidate for the Senate in the recent elections, but was edged out by Meaney.
The chairman has already begun work on preliminary arrangements for the dance. He expects to have the preparations completed when school
DRRWTURBOW \OPTOMETRIST ----OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces” ----EYES EXAMINED 207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	4-5777
BOTH NICE!
Chrysler and Plymouth at
MOULDER MOTOR CO.
215 S. La Fayette
A Suggestion — Why not drive a new car home for the folks. The purchase price in South Bend is probably much less than at home. See . . .
Jack Moulder, Class of ’38
opens in the fall.
At present it is definitely settled that the dance will be semi-formal and will last from 9 to 1. A special section will be reserved at the Pitt game for ballgoers and their dates.
Any A.B. student who would like to help out on the ball or who has any suggestions is asked to see Tom Moore in 315 Dillon or Fran Meaney in 214 Dillon.
Local Anglers Seek Prizes
In 4th Annual Fishing Contest
Competition among local anglers for prizes offered in the fourth annual Notre Dame fishing contest is reaching its peak, Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., has announced.
Father Baldwin, associate professor of physics and director of the derby, has already recorded catches measuring 16 and 18 inches. The campus Izaak Waltons are aiming for the cash awards of §20, §15, §10, and §5 offered to the four contestants who land the longest fish from either St. Joseph’s oi- St. Mary’s Lakes.
Although the deadline for entries is May 31, a catch must be registered with Father Baldwin or his representative in Corby Hall within 24 hours.
“The recent fine weather has brought out the rod and reel boys in large numbers,” Father Baldwin stated.
Summer Storage Contracts Go to Baier and O'Malley
Contracts for summer storage and hauling of student furniture were awarded to Juniors Jay Baier and Pat O’Malley by the Student Senate this Week.
Agents of these two men will visit the halls each night until June 4 to arrange for the storage of goods. Those desiring immediate service should contact Jim Murphy at 322 Dillon.
WHY LUG THAT TYPEWRITER HOME .. .
When you can store it FREE OF CHARGE at the OFFICE ENGINEERS? Your typewriter is covered by insurance while in storage.
We can put your typewriter in top condition during the slack summer season at the special student repair rates. These special storage and repair rates are offered to the students at Notre Dame.
----------------OFFICE ENGINEERS-------------------
116 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-3118
The items will be stored in a Misha- j waka warehouse and insured against ; fire and vandalism. Goods will be returned during the first two weeks of t school next September.	; j
Rates for storage are §2.75 for large	;	|
items and §1.75 for small articles.	:	|
Large objects include trunks, chests	I	।
of drawers, dressers, boxes or cartons	i	f
I of trunk size, and large rugs. Floor	।	r
lamps, table radios, throw rugs, small	i	«,
chests and boxes are numbered among	;	$
the smaller items.	! ]
Additional charge will be made for extra heavy things.	I j
King, Junior Econ Major, Wins $500 GE Scholarship
Thomas L. King, Cambridge, Ohio, a junior economics major in Arts and Letters, has been awarded a §500 scholarship for his senior year by the General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y. James B. iMcLindon, of GE’s Manufacturing Services Division, presented the award at a luncheon attended by King’s parents in The Morris Inn.
The scholarship was one of 100 similar awards being made in connection with the 75th anniversary of the General Electric Co. It is part of the company’s overall educational assistance program which provides fellowships and scholarships for college men as well as scholarships and loans to GE employees and their children.
King is a graduate of St. Benedict Central Catholic High School in Cambridge. Rev. Alfred Mendez, chairman of the Notre Dame committee on scholarships attended the presentation as the official University representative.
SCORES
	Won 13,		Lost 6, Tied 1
Notre	Dame	7	Memphis NAS 1
Notre	Danie	11	Arkansas State 2
Notre	Danie	9	Arkansas State 0	p
Notre	Danie	6	Mississippi 5	p
Notre	Danie	11	Indiana 3	t
Notre	Danie	6	Ohio State 4
*Notre	Danie	0	Ohio State 8
fNotre	Dame	4	Iowa 4 (10 innings)
Notre	Dame	8	Iowa 2	]
Notre	Dame	13	Illinois 2	1
*Notre	Dame	0	Illinois 8
*Notre	Dame	4	Wisconsin 6
Notre	Dame	8	Wisconsin 4	k
Notre	Dame	6	Northwestern 4	r
*Notre	Dame	5	Michigan State 8	[■
Notre	Dame	13	Great Lakes 8
Notre	Dame	16	Glenview NAS 8	s
Notre	Dame	5	Northwestern 4	<;
*Notre	Dame	2	Michigan 3
*Notre	Dame	3	Western Michigan 5
* Games Lost; f Games Tied.	4
32
The Scholastic
CAPSULE CORNER
Fagan Cops $100 Bond
Bill Fagan, junior from Newark, N. J., took second place in the midwest finals of the Hearst National Tournament of Orators held at Loyola University on May 15. Fagan’s six-minute prepared oration, entitled “John Marshall Righteous Man,” won for him a $100 defense bond.
■
Buffalo Club Elects Mullane
At a recent meeting, the Buffalo Club elected its officers for the 1953-54 term. Heading the organization as president is Jack Mullane who will be a senior next fall.
The vice-president’s job goes to John Casey, while the secretary’s will be handled by Jack McMahon. Paul Tub-ridy will act as treasurer. The latter three are entering their junior year.
Rounding out the club’s moguls is John Rodgers, a freshman, who was voted sergeant-at-arms.
■
Rondot Lectures on North Africa
The Committee on International Relations presented a lecture by Prof. P. L. Rondot, director- of studies at the Center of Mohammedan Administration in Paris and professor at the School of National Administration in Paris, on “Social and Economic Evolution in North Africa” in the Rockne Mem-morial Lounge last Tuesday evening.
■
Gorski Solos Sunday
Gene Gorski, a senior and a soloist with the Notre Dame Glee Club, will present a voice recital Sunday in Washington Hall. Baritone Gorski’s program is scheduled for 3:30 in the afternoon.
■
G E Conference Includes Dooley
Mr. William R. Dooley, Placement Bureau director, will be one of 25 college representatives from coast-to-coast who will attend a Conference of College Placement Officers to be sponsored by the General Electric Co. at Schenectady, N.Y., June 15-18.
The conference will consider many aspects of college placement including the placement of veterans, helping older alumni to find jobs, financial support on the part of business to colleges, counselling and guidance of students, recruiting ethics, and the proper use of placement facilities.
■
Stead Receives Steiner Award
Kenneth G. Stead, Chicago Heights, Ill., senior electrical engineering major,
is the 1953 recipient of the Father Steiner Award for outstanding achievement by a student in the college of engineering.
This award, which bears the name of the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C.. former Provincial of the Congregation and longtime builder of engineers in his former capacity as Dean of the College of Engineering, was initiated in 1950 by a group of his former students.
■
Catholic High Nears Completion
Construction is underway on a new Catholic high school in South Bend. The new building is located on the Dixie Highway immediately across from the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The unit, the first of two, is expected to be ready for occupancy in September.
■
Musicians Present Program
The Department of Music presented a program of original student compositions under the direction of Prof. Carl Mathes last Monday night, in Washington Hall. Included in the program was a Te Deum by Hal Tompkins.
Other participants were Evelyn Major, Dick Casper, Gene Gorski, Hans Dietz, Carl Cunningham, and Paul Chichan.
EARN 5237.00 in ELEVEN DAYS
. . . before starting your summer vacation or that summer job. Board and room optional at $3 per day. If you stay the full period board and room is free. Only men in good physical condition are wanted as you work 12 hours each day for about eleven straight days.
STARTING TIME June 14th.
PLACE ..... Maumee, Ohio. 10 miles south of Toledo.
KIND OF WORK Concrete grain elevator silo pour.
RECREATION . . T.U. Coach Dunn in charge—basketball, volley ball, swimming, archery, horseshoe, motion pictures.
A GREAT EXPERIENCE Write, giving name, age, weight, physical condition, construction experience, to
THE ANDERSON TRUCK TERMINAL
MAUMEE, OHIO
ROTC Travels to Atterbury
Last Saturday 69 junior Army ROTC students traveled to Camp Atterbury, Ind., to tour and inspect the army camp. The purpose of the trip was to familiarize the cadets with post life in preparation for theii- six weeks of summer camp.
After a welcome by the commanding general and a luncheon, the cadets viewed the athletic and recreational facilities and observed outdoor clases in rifle instruction, bayonet training, and machine gun firing.
The Other Side
(Continued from page 23)
Dame. But in leaving he can rest assured that he possesses the' Christian education and training necessary for him to accept the responsibilities of the future.
And to All, A Goodnight!
And so this column takes its final bow. Earlier in the year we explained its purpose—“to add a little variety to this year’s Scholastic” and more specifically, “to concern itself with certain problems confronting the typical collegian in his drive for maturity and knowledge'.”
It comes to a close because the time has come for yours truly to concern himself with these same principles of" maturity and knowledge to help solve' the “certain problems” that he, along with 900 others, will suddenly fall heir to on June 7.—Tom Foote
May 22, 1953
By Paul Zalecki
the general life of the campus is almost an obsession.
This strong preoccupation might arise from the realization that Notre Dame can be an important Catholic influence. Everyone associated with the University senses that the school is constantly in the limelight and that it has a deep obligation to* produce.
Within a fairly short time a lot of things have happened to Notre Dame. The class which will be graduating this June was one of the first after the war not composed predominantly of veterans. The transition demanded by a younger student body was not always easy.
The school’s problems in this respect were accentuated by the numerical growth of the student body. For a while the classrooms, the dormitories, and the Dining Hall were taxed to the limit.
To make the task of adjustment more difficult, the students had to face the uncertainty created by the new draft. For a long time they did not know where they stood, and it was difficult to concentrate upon academic concerns.
Today some of these problems have been alleviated. Since the veterans have fallen into a small minority, the classes have become more homogeneous; when the government announced its college policy, the students at least could revise their plans and again look ahead; because the University has been able to construct one new dormitory and two class buildings, it is now better able to handle a large student body.
It is obvious then that within a fairly short time Notre Dame has been undergoing a considerable change. During this time it also has had to cope with the temper of our times: we live in a post-war, war, and pre-war period of stress and disillusion which obviously must have some effect upon the University.	•
It seems as if the task which Notre Dame now faces is to reinforce those values which it has cherished for so long, in which it has taken pride, and for which it is well known.
Notre Dame faces the challenge of an internal development, one which will insure that the blessings which it has enjoyed will not be wasted.
Spirit of Notre Dome
One of the strengths of Notre Dame which supposedly has helped it to weather all storms is its famed spirit. A spirit, however, is elusive and defies evalution. I can remember hearing about the spirit of Notre Dame long before I came here, and I always wondered what it exactly was.
Today I still wonder. When I entered the University four years ago, it was very good to hear the President of the University say at the freshman Mass that I, along with the other* freshmen, was now part of the Notre Dame family, part of the Notre Dame spirit. But, if 1300 students who had been at the school less than a week could have acquired it in so short a time, what kind of thing is it?
Actually it has to be something deep, if it is Notre Dame’s distinctive quality. If that be the case, this spirit cannot be connected merely to sports or to the so-called will to win. Any of the other schools which yearly have good teams then would also have what amounts to the spirit of Notre Dame.
Also, it would not seem to be tied up solely to the idea of academic achievement or Catholic principles, since there are many other fine universities, both Catholic and non-Catholic.
In reality it is rather puzzling to attempt any analysis of the spirit of Notre Dame and to relate it to the needs of the school. Actually, however, it seems to center about some sort of an ideal, probably closely related to the notion of loyalty. It entails a loyalty of all those connected with the University in any way whatsoever and a desire to make it a good school.
Intense Student Concern
The spirit of Notre Dame implies a deep interest in the school. It is doubtful that any other student body is more intensely centered about the school than are the students of Notre Dame. Their concern over the rules, over the changes that take place, over
What to do with a nickel when thirst arrives
•omtDMtt A0TwoamrovtMCOCA<oiA comfant tv
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It is this realization which seems to underlie the unrest — as opposed to a complacent stagnation — found at Notre Dame today. It is an unrest motivated by the desire to meet and conquer the spiritual challenge of our times.
Notre Dame is interested in an ideal, and it is moving to attain it. Somehow the school is striving to be faultless. This is a fine ideal, but it can also be dangerous. If any dissatisfaction were to become too extreme, or the thinking too doctrinaire, it could produce a lack of sympathy and sincerity which would be harmful.
It is obvious to all that for Notre Dame to prosper it would have to combat this disintegrating force and to work for an internal cohesion. And it seems to be doing that today. The school is striving for a deeper student participation in the life of the University, a closer unity between the students, the faculty, and the administration, and an internal strengthening of those values which should be stressed in this Catholic institution.
It looks as if Notre Dame is at some sort of a crossroad. She is looking for the path which will lead to a strong school imbued with a forceful spirit and ambition, a school which will be proud of its students, and a school whose graduates will be educated Christian gentlemen, deservedly loyal to Notre Dame.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
34
The Scholastic
Microtomic
favored by undergraduates... BROOKS BROTHERS' EXCLUSIVE LIGHTWEIGHT SUMMER SUITS
Casual and good-looking, our cool, comfortable suits and Odd Jackets are most popular with college men. They’re made exclusively for us on our own distinctive models... in a wide choice of materials including cottons, linens and Dacron or Orlon blends... and are available in many attractive patterns.
Suitsj from $24.50 • Odd Jackets, from $15
ESTABLISHED 1818
^ens Furnishings. Bats Shoes
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y.
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
A predsioii instreuoef
for professions! heeds
Microtomic—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them today!
Only Microtomic offers you
HI-DENSITY LEADS
Lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM
Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO
Choice of holders and Microtomic leads.
EBERHARD
FABER
TRADEMARKS RES. U S PAT. OFF.
Students...
TRAVEL and STUDY in EUROPE Economically
The Institute of European Studies makes it possible for you to study at the University of Vienna and travel through nine countries: Spain, France, Portugal, England, Holland, Italy, Austria and North Africa. A variety of courses is offered in English with special advantages for learning languages, art and music.
1.	One Semester Study Program
5 ^2 months, Sept, to Feb. . . . $985
2.	Two Semester Study Program
10 months, Sept, to July . . . $1100 Price includes complete room and board while in Europe, also all travel expenses through nine countries and round trip ocean transportation via boat, tourist class. Price covers all tuition and registration expenses at the University of Vienna and at the Institute.
SHORT TRAVEL PROGRAMS ARE ALSO AVAILABLE
1.	Summer Travel Program .
61 days . . . $860
Fly both ways to Europe. Visit nine countries. All expenses. There is limited space on this program so contact us immediately if you are interested.
2.	Fall Travel Program
39 days . . . $695 Sail over on the Andrea Doria and return on the Queen Mary. Visit seven countries. All expences.
For further information and application write to CLARENCE E. GIESE, Director
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois

s
tIGGETT 4 MYFOS TOBACCO CO
LIGGETT 4 MYERS TOBACCO CO
I KING-SIZE
GARETTE*
First cigarette to offer PREMIUM QUALITY in both regular and king-size
WHEN you are asked to try a cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it all the time.
For a full year now, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations every two months. He reports:
no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.
More and more men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them.
I
I
If
%
5
I
c i?
I
§
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.
Copyright 1953, Liggeit & Myers Tobacco Co.

ei %

y