The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
September 28, 1934
No. 2
300 ITALIAN STUDENTS VISIT CAMPUS SUNDAY
BLUE CIRCLE REORGANIZED WITH WILLIAM MILLER AS CHAIRMAN
By Joseph A. Bucci
Three hundred undergraduate representatives of 26 Italian universities will visit Notre Dame Sunday as one of their principal stops in a three-week tour of the leading colleges and universities in this country. Sponsored by the American-Italian University Committee, the tour is designated primarily to further the academic and physical education of the visiting students.
Upon their arrival from Chicago Sunday morning at 10:30 a.m., the group will be met at the gateway to the campus by a reception committee of Italian Club members, headed by Professors Pasquale M. Pirchio and Joseph J. Casasanta of the Notre Dame faculty. They will be accompanied from Chicago by Dr. Antonio Ferme, acting Italian Consul General, Dr. Peter M. Riccio, and Gustav T. Kirby, members of the committee planning the tour.
The visitors will be escorted to the Administration building where they are to be officially welcomed by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Hara is to be presented with a rare book by the Italian Fascist students dealing with the history and activities of all Italian universities, from the time of their foundation on, including also the customs of the people and of the times.
A special mass will be said for the Italian university students at 11:30 in Sacred Heart Church during which a sermon of welcome in Italian will be delivered by the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C. Following a luncheon in the University Dining Hall, the group will proceed to make an inspection tour of the campus, guided by members of the Italian Club. Among the many points of interest on campus, the visitors will be pleased to view the Dante collection, examples of Italian art as they will be explained by Professor Emil Jacques in the Library Art Galleries, and the Gregorian frescoes in the Administration building and in Sacred Heart Church.
The 300 Italian students will depart for Detroit late Sunday afternoon.
Texas Tickets Will Be Distributed From Ticket Office In Main Building
Tickets for the Texas game will be procured at the ticket office located in the Main Building beginning at two o’clock on the assigned days. Students must present athletic books to receive tickets. Seniors will get their tickets on Monday, Juniors on Tuesday, Sophomores on Wednesday, and Freshmen on Thursday. The time (two to five) must be observed if tickets are to be had.
First Selections of Glee
Club Members Is Made
The first selection of members for the Notre Dame Glee club was announced this week, by Profesor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization.
Voice trials for men wishing to join the club will be held every day between 1 and 3 p.m. in the music hall, until Oct. 6.
Pep Meeting
The first pep meeting of the year will be held next Friday, Oct. 5, according to an announcement of Bill Miller, chairman of the Blue Circle which this year takes over the duties formerly performd by the Rally Committee.
Immediately after supper, the student body, led by the band, will parade across the campus to the gymnasium where the fresh?” en will get their first glimpse of a Notre Dame pep meeting.
The list of speakers for the evening has not been completed as yet but it is probable that both the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Elmer Layden, director of athletics, will be on hand to address the student body.
FIRST MEETING MONDAY
By John J. Moran
William E. Miller, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Lockport, N. Y., has been appointed chairman of the newly-organized Blue
William E. Miller
He will wave torches.
Circle, Tom LaLonde, president of the S. A. C., announced this week.
The membership of the Blue Circle has been limited this year to eighteen, instead of thirty-five, as was customary in the past. Each S. A. C. man is privileged to nominate one candidate under the new ruling and great care was exercised in the selection of members, inasmuch as the purpose of the organization is honoraiy as well as utilitarian. Appointees will be eligible to wear Blue Circle keys.
The new Blue Circle will perform many greatly needed services about the campus. It will act as mediator between the student and the University Disciplinary Board. It will come properly within the range of the group’s functions to drop a hint to any student who is in danger of suspension from the abuse of certain University privileges that the under-
(Continued on Page 18)
One
The Scholastic
Charles Phillips Foundation Planned by South Bend Group
PROF. GROOM RECEIVES COVETED ENGLISH AWARD
FR. ROZEWICZ IS LEADER
A Charles Phillips Memorial Foundation for Polish culture at Notre Dame is at present under consideration of the Polish American Central Civic Association of South Bend and
The Late Charles Phillips In his memory, a foundation.
Mishawaka. Suggested in June by Bev. , Anthony J. Bozewicz, C.S.C., pastor of St. Casimir’s church in South Bend, the plan was favorably received by executive council of the asociation. It was • referred to the general body of the organization and awaited action at the meeting on August 15, but because of the pressure of the business of the meeting no action was taken.
Father Bozewicz said Tuesday that the foundation might not be started for several weeks yet, for the question of financing the project is a difficult one at the present time.
Chair of Polish Culture
The University of Notre Dame is establishing a chair of Polish culture which will be filled by Bev. Dr. Stanislaus F Lisewski, C.S.C., who is at present in Poland studying Polish culture. It was after the announcement of this chair that the local Polish association began to consider a memorial foundation for Polish students.	'
Charles Phillips,, professor of English at Notre Dame from 1924 until his death last December, was intensely intersted in the Polish race, pub; lishing several histories of Polish relations, a novel with, a Polish background, The Wooing Doctor', and his last biography, Paderewski, A Mod-
T w o
F.E.R.A. Workers Make Rapid Progress on Project
To Place Wires Underground
Bapid progress is being made on' the F.E.B.A. project in front of the Engineering Building. Under the direction of Beverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., all overhead wires and cables on the south side of the campus will be strung underground.
The ditch which is being dug will extend from the Engineering’ Building past Alumni and Dillon to the Dining Hall. From the Dining Hall, it will run north to the south end of the Library, west to Walsh Hall and north to Corby Hall. All wires carrying electricity or telephone service along this route will be run through pipes which will be laid in the ditch.
After this work is completed, all telephone and light poles on the south side of the campus will be removed, thus greatly improving the appearance of this section. Besides regular laborers being employed, twenty-four students having F.E.B.A. jobs are working on the project.
Presidents’ Council
The first regular meeting of the President’s Council will be held in the North room of the Library, Tuesday evening, Oct. 2, at 6:30. All those eligible by virtue of holding a campus presidential office are requested to attend so that the work of the council may be started at once.
ern Immortal, which appeared shortly after his death. He spent three years in Poland after the World War working with the American Bed Cross, his interest in Polish people and their conditions -winning him the nickname of “the fanatic Pole” at one time. In his connection with the university he was beloved by every student on the campus, and his death was keenly felt by Notre Dame. He was adviser to the Cracow club for two years.
Besides his Polish works Prof. Phillips has to his credit several outstanding volumes of verse including: Back Home—An Old Fashioned Poem of which five volumes appeared, High in Her Tower; two plays, “The Divine Friend” and the “Shepherd of the Valley,” and a biography of Abraham Lincoln called Young Lincoln. He edited several periodicals and journals before entering the World War including the Monitor, ,North Western Chronicle and the New Cen- ' tury.
In recognition of his superior abilities as an organist and a composei’ of the first rank, Mr. Willard L. Groom, instructor of music at Notre Dame, received, on Thursday, Sep- . tember 21, a licentiate degree of music from the Board of Begents of the
Prof Willard L. Groom Royal College honored him.
Boyal College of Music and the Boyal Academy of Music in London. This degree was awarded to Mr. Groom as a result of his studies in the English capital last winter. An especial significance attaches itself to the award, since it comes from the two institutions which set the musical standards for the entire British Empire.
Along with the honor of possessing this degree Mr. Groom has now achieved the qualifications to teach at any of the schools of music associated with the London Academy and College within the British Empire.
The particular aim of Mr. Groom’s studies in England was to acquire a knowledge of English standards of music, and apply them to American methods of music teaching. According to Mr. Groom, these standards are quite suitable to our needs in this country, since both the United States and England handle their music problems in much the same fashion.
While in England during the winter months, Mr. Groom stopped at Cambridge and Oxford Universities as well as many other institutions of higher learning. Before returning to the United States, he also visited several of the music centers throughout the continent.
I
Father Walsh Resigns
Bev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., professor of history and former president of the University, resigned on June 22 from the provincial council of the Congregation of Holy Cross and also from his position as assistant provincial of the Congregation. Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the college of engineering replaced Father Walsh on the provincial council.
The Scholastic
ELEVEN HEN SELECTED FOR N. D. COLLEGIANS
Prof. Staunton Ordained to Priesthood in Distinctve Rite
The eleven men who will compose the Collegians, campus dance band, for the coming year were selected last Monday by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music at the University. They are: Harry Poulin, piano; Joseph Bucci, violin; Paul Guameri, William Ellis and R. Marre, trumpets; Joseph MacDonald, trombone; James Bordeaux, Francis Barbush and Edward Zimmers, saxaphones; George Vesey,, tuba; and Joseph Argus, drums.
Collegians Popular
Save for the loss of saxaphonist Robert Demer through graduation and the addition of Ellis, Marre and MacDonald,. who replace Charles Fiore, no longer at the University, this "is the same organization which played together last year. Their rhythms were considered both pleasing and harmonious by the many dancers for whom they played during the school year past.
Organized originally as the Jugglers, which name was changed to the Collegians last year, they increased their popularity year by year until, in the summer of 1932, they were' selected to entertain the passengers of a large ocean-liner, many of whose voyagers were travelling to attend the Eucharistic Congress in Ireland.
During the curricular year the Collegians offer their harmonies for numerous social affairs both in South Bend and at Saint Mary’s.
Moreau Choir to Broadcast Over WSBT Sunday Noon
Emanating from WSBT, in South Bend, over the entire Columbia Broadcast Chain as a featured program of The Church of the Air series next Sunday will be a group of five selections by the famous Moreau Seminary choir of Notre Dame. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University will deliver a short talk entitled “Spiritual’ Authority.”
The program will start at 12 o’clock, noon, Central Standard Time.
The Moreau choir, under the direction of Fathei’ Connerton. C.S.C.. i" nationally famous for their rendition of the difficult Gregorian chant.
Sunday’s program will include the following:
Ave Maris Stella (Nikel).
Jubilate Deo (Gregorian).
Father O’Hara’s sermon.
Jerusalem Convertere, eight voices (Palestrina).
Popule Meus (Bamabei).
Christus Factus Est (Gregorian).
September 2 8, 193 4
Prizes To Be Offered
For Best Student Work In “Scrip” This Year
Two cash prizes of twenty-five dollars each will be offered this year by Scrip, campus quarterly, one for the best prose offering and the other for the best work in poetry. The an-
G. Albert Lawton He offers prizes.
nouncement was made this week by Albert Lawton, editor of the Notre Dame’s literary publication.
Any student is eligible to compete for the prizes. As a deviation from its ponderous nature of former years Scrip will accept things of the lighter nature, articles which in previous years constituted the “Juggler vein.”
Short stories, one act plays, blank verse, free verse, and essays may be submitted. In the first isue, the deadline of which is the last week in October, there will appear a poem by Professor Engels on the late Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell.
S.A.C. Still Undecided On
Selection of Student Trip
Selection of the annual student football trip was discussed at the last meeting of the S.A.C., Wednesday, Sept. 19, but no definite action was taken because of the uncertainty regarding the special rates which the S.A.C. hopes to secure.
The choice of the game seems to have narrowed down to either the Navy contest at Cleveland or the Northwestern game at Evanston. The Pittsburgh trip is another possibility, though present indications do not point to a sufficiently favorable transportation rate to make the trip popular with the student body.
The final selection of the S.A.C. and details regarding the trip will appear shortly in The Scholastic.
WAS EPISCOPAL MINISTER
In a quiet ceremony Saturday morning, Sept. 22, Rev. John Armitage Staunton, 71-year-old former teacher of cosmology an dmetaphysics at Notre Dame, received Holy Orders from Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne. Attending in the sanctuary were Rev. J. W. Donahue, Rev. William Connor and Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.
After the ceremony Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., presented Father Staunton with a special missal of the mass printed in large type.
Father Staunton, a former clergyman of the Protestant Episcopal church, is thought to be the oldest man ever ordained a secular priest in this country. Earlier in the week he was vested with the minor orders that precede priesthood.
Graduate of Harvard
The life of Father Staunton is filled with achivements and incidents. Born and reared in Adrian, Michigan, Father Staunton took a degree in mining engineering from Columbia University of New York City, and an arts and letters degree from Harvard. In 1892, two years after graduation from Harvard, he became a minister.
In 1901 the Philippine Islands claimed his services as United States deputy superintendent of schools in the province of Cebu. Then for 20 yars he remained superitendent of the Igorat schools at Segada in the Mountain province. Columbia University trustees in 1923 awarded him the ’89 gold medal “for distinguished achievement in unifying the technical, moral and spiritual education of the Igorates of Northern Luzon.” He maintains that his chief hobby of life was living, “for more than 20 years among my friends, the head-hunters of Luzon.”
Msgr. Carroll Dies
The Very Rev. Monsignor Thomas G. Carroll, chancellor of- the archdiocese of New York and esteemed friend of the University, died recently at the home of friends at Twin Lakes, Conn. He was forty-nine years of age.
Monsignor Carroll was a great friend of Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame and influenced many students to come to the school of Our Lady. As one of the most beloved priests in New York, he could always be counted upon by the Notre Dame students and alumni of that city.
Three
Leo Cormier Is Selected Cotillion
Chairman; Date and Place Undecided
JUNIOR DONE PICTURES TO BE TAKEN THIS WEEK
COMMITTEES ARE NAMED
Leo J. Cormier, Rumford Falls, Maine, Arts and Letters Sophomore, has been appointed General Chairman of this year’s Sophomore Cotillion by Class President Harold Miller of Indianapolis, it was announced
Leo Cormier Where? When? Who?
early this week. The date of the affair is not yet definite. Also undecided are the site of the dance and the price and sale of tickets, but announcement should be made within a week. A number of prominent orchestras are under consideration to provide the music.
Associated with Chairman Cormier and President Miller in planning the ■ dance will be the following Committee Chairmen:
Tickets—Phil Welsh, Music—Walter Nienaber, Printing — Richard Meier, Publicity — Thomas M. Doyle, Hall—Parker Sullivan, Decorations— Cyril Stroker, Entertainment—Leom ard Tose.
Programs — Arthur Hoffman, Reception—Jack King, Arrangement— Robert Wilkie, Invitations—Laurence Danbaum, Patrons — Al Smith, Accommodations—George Specht, Floor Committee—Thomas Foy.
Smoker Committee Named
By N. Y. Capital Club
Jerry Molinari, president of the New York Capital District Club, appointed a committee on a smoker at the meeting Monday night in Brownson recreation room.
Larry Clark, Sherburne Herrick, Vince Gorman were named to make arrangements for the smoker to be given by the Club on Tuesday night, Oct. 2, in the Faculty dining hall.
S. A. C. Cheerleader Appeal Meets Half-hearted Response As Few Frosh Turn Out
The appeal made last week by the S.A.C. for cheer leaders met with only half hearted response from the student body. A much larger turnout, especially from the Freshman class, had been expected with the announcement that plans were being made for the formation of an organization to develop material for future years. The three upper classes were fairly well represented among the candidates who reported to S. A. C. President Tom LaLonde in Washington Hall last Friday evening, but the first year men were conspicuous by their absence.
This was rather disappointing since the S.A.C. had planned the new organization primarily as a means of giving the Freshman candidates a chance to acquire experience and to form the nucleus of the group from which cheer leaders will be drawn in succeeding years.
For this reason the S.A.C. has announced that those of the first year men who did not attend the initial meeting of the cheerleaders and are desirous of trying out for the squad may do so by getting in touch with Tom LaLonde, 403 Howard Hall, as soon as possible. The success of the plan will depend largely on the number of Freshmen who respond to the S.A.C.’s appeal. Those who make the squad will be given the opportunity to lead the cheering at the various athletic events throughout the year.
French Club Meeting Planned
The first meeting of the French Club will be held on October 2, for the purpose of electing a new vicepresident, who will replace Harold May, the former occupant of that position. Summaries of the two lectures, delivered by the two French professors who visited the University from the Sorbonne in Paris, will be given. The one concerning the Cite Universitaire should be interesting to students planning foreign graduate work. The other lecture dealt with the founding and history of the Sorbonne.
President Louis Grosso has planned an extensive program of activities for the coming year. Mr. Earl Langwell still holds the office of faculty adviser for the organization. Notices will be posted regarding the exact hour and locale of the meeting.
4
Editor John Walker of the Dome announces that the individual Junior photographs for the Dome will be taken between the hours of 1:30 and 5:00 p. m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of next week. Fifty cents will be charged for each photograph. Andrew Hufnagel and Harold Rhodes, both of the College of Arts
John Walker Rounding out staff.
and Letters, are in charge of the taking of these photographs. The pictures will be taken as usual in rhe basement of Walsh Hall. The dates for Senior photographs will be announced later.
Vittorio Arcadi, Senior in the College of Science, has begun his photographic work for this year’s Dome. Arcadi received many compliments on his fine work in last year’s yearbook.
Editor Walker plans to have his staff completely organized within the next week. He has many positions to fill in the various departments, but the staff is finally rounding into workable condition.
Dr. McMeel Appointed
Assistant N. D. Physician
The appointment of Dr. James E. McMeel as assistant University physician to Dr. Frank Powers was recently announced. Dr. McMeel is a resident of South Bend and has an office at 415 Associates Building.
-Dr. McMeel is a graduate of Rush Medical School in Chicago and spent his interneship in the Cook- County Hospital in the same city. After his interneship he was made house surgeon at the Illinois Central Hospital where he remained a year. He then went to the Washington Boulevard Hospital in the same capacity. Both hospitals are located in Chicago. Dr. McMeel’s next move was to South Bend where he began his present practise. He is a native of Kansas.
As assitant to Dr. Powers, Dr. Mc-, Meel will be in the infirmary one hour a day and on the football field two hours a day.
The Scholastic
Four
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA BEGINS ITS FIFTH YEAR
Linnets, Campus Musical Organization, Look Forward to Active Winter Season
By Vincent A. Gorman, Jr.
The University Symphony, under the directorship of Professor Richard E. Seidel, is preparing for its annual fall concert to be held in the latter part of November. Practice is held on Tuesday and Friday evenings of each
Prof Richard E. Seidel
In original Chicago symphony.
week at 6:30 o’clock, and Prof. Seidel announced last Tuesday that students playing any kind of instrument are invited to try out for the symphony in his office in Washington Hall any time on Tuesday or Friday. He is especially interested in hearing anyone who can play cello, oboe or other wind instruments.
This year being the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the birth of that great composer Johann Sebastian Bach, Prof. Seidel aims to join in the celebration by presenting the B Minor Suite from the pen of that musician. It is also planned to have the orchestra render Josef Haydn’s number 12 symphony, never before played on the campus. Other classical and semi-classical selections will complete the organization’s repertoire for this year.
J. S. Bach is recognized as the first great symphony writer. He invented the fuge form for the piano. This balanced contrapuntal form of musical expression is the back-bone of every symphony. Most critics, the world over, acclaim Bach’s B Minor’ Mass as the greatest of musical works, approached only by the Solemn Mass of Beethoven.
The University Symphony had its beginning five years ago when Prof.
September 2 8, 1934
La Londe, Vairo, Speak At Opening Freshmen Convocation on Monday
Over to historic Washington Hall Monday and Wednesday nights trundled the 800 odd freshmen there to do as all Notre Dame freshmen classes have done since the beginning of the University. That the class of ’38, was already able to sing the Victory March was no surprise, but that the freshmen sang the famous, difficult “Hike” song with the ease of seniors caused cheery Joe Casasanta to smile broadly.
Tom LaLonde, S. A. C. president, welcomed the frosh and outlined to them the purpose of the meeting. Said impressario LaLonde: “At Notre Dame we have no hazing; rather we try to instill in the freshmen the true spirit of sportsmanship at Notre Dame in a manner which, we feel, will best make them true Notre Dame men.”
The Rev. F. J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, explained the rules which govern the student body at the football games.
Track Coach John P. Nicholson, invited the freshmen out for the Cross Country team and told them of the rivalry between the various halls.
Another meeting will be held at 6:45 tonight in Washington Hall. All freshmen are cordially requested to attend.
Seidel came to the University. That year a twelve-violin ensemble was inaugurated; the following year it was enlarged to a membership of twenty-five and called a Concert Orchestra. Since then the name has been changed to the University Symphony with a personnel and following greatly increased each year, despite the many trials and hardships which have confronted its growth.
Prof. Richard E. Seidel is the only living member of the original Chicago Symphony, founded in 1891 by Theodore Thomas, who brought Prof. Seidel from Germany to America as first violinist in the newly formed orchestra. Previous to that he had graduated from the Leipzig Conservatory, and had played in the famous “Gewand-Haus’ orchestra under such famous directors as Brahms and Rubinstein.
Two years after his graduation he came to America. For thirty-nine years after his arrival he was first violinist and frequently concert master of the Chicago Symphony. In 1923
(Continued on Page 9)
MEETING IS ON MONDAY
At a preliminary meeting of the Linnets, campus musical organization, held last Sunday at 12:30 in the Music hall, tentative plans were drawn up to make the coming year an active one. Temporary appoint-
Frank McGahren
His appointment is temporary.
ments were made to positions on the business staff.
Frank McGahren, a graduate student and recipient of the Boy Guidance scholarship at he university, was made temporary business manager. McGahren has been active in the Linnets ever since the organization was started two years ago. Franklyn C. Hochreiter, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters was named assistant business manager. Hochreiter has been in charge of ticket sales at the last two Linnet productions.
A general reorganization meeting was called by the leaders for Monday, Oct. 1 at 6:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Among those present at the initial meeting were: John Ryan, Frank McGahren, Franklyn C. Hochreiter, Charles Hill, John Sullivan, and Irwin Goldman.
The Linnets were organized by Rev. Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., in the spring of 1933. Music for stage purposes is the keynote of the club, and from the sweet-voiced, Old World finch comes its name. That spring a comic opera, “The -Vagabonds” was presented for three nights. Last year two musical revues, more modern in nature, were offered: “Thanks For The Blow” in the late fall, and “Music’s The Thing” in early spring.
Scholastic Notice
There will be a meeting of the members of the Scholastic news and sports staff, tonight at 7:00 in the editorial rooms.
Fire
JACK DEMPSEY VISITS;
SPEAKS TO STUDENTS
By William A. Kennedy
Jack Dempsey, former heavyweight boxing champion, visited the campus last Friday. In company with Elmer Layden and a straggling retinue including his manager, a boxing promoter, and several other unidentified members of the staff, he lunched, met the student body, conferred with Layden on diets, and watched football practice.
Introduced to the students in the dining halls at noon, Dempsey acceded to a unanimous request for a speech in the West Hall.
“I’m glad to be with you,” he said, “because if there’s one thing I like more than boys it’s more boys.”
Cornered outside the dining hall, Dempsey admitted for the second time that he was glad to be back. His last visit to the campus was in 1925, when he was a guest of Rockne.
“Notre Dame is a great school, and I’m only sorry I couldn’t go to one like it. Perhaps to Notre Dame, itself.”
Here’s where the reporter played his ace.	.
Q: You seem to have gotten along rather well without a college education.
Ans: “I could have done much more with an education. You see, I knew it all and quit when I was a kid.”
Q: Would you advise a college man to go in for prizefighting?
Ans: “A fellow should do whatever he wants to do. If he likes prizefighting and thinks he wants that kind of a life, let him go ahead and be a prizefighter. If Elmer, here, could start all over again, he’d probably be a coach, and me, I’d be a prizefighter.”
Q: Isn’t the fight game pretty low at present? Isn’t it overrun with rackets, so that it is hard to get into, and harder still to make money out of?
Ans: “All businesses and professions have their rackets and the fight game is no exception. But it’s as good as the others.”	.
Friday afternoon, Dempsey watched football practice and met some of the players. “They look husky enough,” was his comment. •
Patricians Open Year
A preliminary meeting of the Patricians was held Wednesday evening, September 26, in the classics room of the Law building.
The committee on membership, consisting of Franklyn Hochreiter, chairman; Richard Ballman, Henry Dendler and Bernard Neizer considered applications of prospective members.
Six
V
'J^about the camPus
</ \y
A typical “man about the campus” is Thomas King La Londe of Rochester, Cleveland, Alpena, and more recently, Evanston. A winning and al-
ways present smile, coupled with a dynamic personality and ever pervading democratic and friendly spirit has righteously earned for Tom numerous admirers and many sincere, friends.
In his Freshman year while starting on his inevitable career of friendmaking Tom still had time to earn his numerals in Freshman football and Freshman golf. He can still shoot any course in the high seventies,, and this summer played an exhibition match in his home town with Walter Hagen, outdriving the long hitting “Hague” on eight out of the 18 holes.
Tom might have continued in his athletic endeavors but in his Sophomore year because of the terrible business depression was forced to utilize his spare time in building up a fast fading business at Max Adlers. That he succeeded remarkably well is unquestionable. A natural born salesman there are still fellows (friends of Tom’s) walking the campus with ill-fitting suits and with horrible looking ties.—Oh well—
But even these activities did not stop the King from maintaining old and cultivating many new friends so that in the spring elections of ’33 Tom was elected decisively to the Presidency of his Junior Class. Following upon, the heels of a very popular and successful administration came his election to the Presidency of the S.A.C., the position he now capa-
500 CATHOLIC WOKEN VISIT CANPUS NONDAY
Another' step forward in the advancement of the decency campaign of the bishops of the United States was taken at Notre Dame September 22 when five hundred members of the South Bend deanery of the National Council of Catholic Women met in convention on the University campus and adopted the following resolution.
“Resolved: Believing that the motion picture has more far reaching effect in preserving a high standard of decency, be it unanimously resolved by the South Bend deanery of the. N.C.C.W. that we indorse the program of the bishops of the United States.”
After opening the one day convention with a solemn pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart church at which Bishop Noll of Fort Waye was celebrant, the group assembled-in Washington Hall. Here they were formally welcomed by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the' University.	-	’ • ' v
“ Father O’Hara, himself a pioneer and leader in'the decency movement which, has become, nationwide, addressing the women said: '	.
“We particularly welcome you because of the principles that band you together and because Notre Dame is your school.
“This school for men is dedicated to women. It is the school of the Virgin Mary, Mother of God. . . .
“The reluctance of some women to accept their husbands for better or worse is appalling. Their request for bizarre entertainment is alarming. It is because you are women whose principles are against these things that Notre Dame feels grati- -fied at having you on its campus.”
bly holds with an air of dignity and humility.
A senior in the Commerce School • Tom expects to graduate with a cum Imide and enter upon a career of salesmanship, his career already having been settled. Six feet tall, with a clear dark complexion, brown eyes, and coal black hair give Tom an appearance that, coupled with his personality, and aided by his experiences at Notre Dame are convincing proofs that Tom will inevitably be a great success. He resides this year in his Bohemian garret on the fourth floor of Howard and is with all his activities still at home to all—has a friendly greeting for everyone — a truly Notre Dame democrat, truly a man about. the campus is Thomas King La Londe.	.
'.	• The Scholastic
UPPERCLASS MISSION ENDS TOMORROW A. M.
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
OCTOBER ALUMNUS OUT EARLY NEXT WEEK
“This Mission, to conform to the urges of the Pope, is not supposed to be a series of sermons for you to attend that you might learn a new lesson, but it is for the setting aside a period that you might think, might meditate on your life, together with the eternal, supernatural truths you have alreaady learned in your childhood.” These were the key words of the initial sermon of Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C., that formally opened the mission for upperclassmen, Sunday night, Sept. 24.
Father Havey Speaks
This mission, which began Sunday night, will end Saturday morning, Sept. 29, with, a Papal benediction. Every morning at 6:30, as in the freshman mission of last week, there is Mass and sermon; every evening there is a sermon and benediction.
Father Havey, immediately gains the interest of his hearers by the relation of significant parable or story to drive home the important point of his sermon. Never does he allow interest to lag. He impresses the religious truths upon the minds of the students by his continuous series of analogies. “Where do I come from? Where am I going?” were the profound words of Tuesday evening’s sermon.
The holding of this mission is in compliance with the usual custom at Notre Dame, where two missions are held during the opening weeks of the schoolyear, one for upperclassmen and one for underclassmen. The freshmen mission was held last week under the personal instruction of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Professors Mahin and Lee To Address Metal Congress
Professors E. G. Mahin and E. F. Lee, of the Department of Metallurgy at Notre Dame, will journey to New York City, October 1, to present a scientific discourse before the National Metal congress, the annual educational assembly of the nation’s metallurgical engineers.
The two representatives of the University, both members of the American Society for Metals, will read’ a paper entitled. “Influence of Non-Metallic Inclusions Upon the Precipitation of Primary Cementite in Hypereutectoid Steels.”
During their stay in New York, Professors Mahin and Lee will attend the National Metal exposition, an annual display of the products of hundreds of concerns in the metal industry. Both the Congress and Exposition are conducted, by the American Society for Metals.
September 2 8, 1934
About Professors
When a weary instructor at Syracuse U. dozed during a short class assignment his ever considerate students were averse to waking him until the close of the period.
It was the custom of a Wisconsin sociology professor to pass out cigarettes in his classes to make the students feel more natural, because, he explained, the course is such an inhuman one.
Our own worthy savants will agree that it takes the average student 20 times as long to tell what he thinks as to tell what he knows!
Will someone please explain why America boasts of the richest universities, yet graduates go to Europe to finish their education?
Off Campusing
’Tis reported that Sweetbriarians are most fervent in their hymning— particularly when uttering the “Ah-men!” After several years the University of Pittsburgh decided it might not be inappropriate to hold classes in astronomy at night.
N.Y.U. lists “Personality Development” in its curriculum, while U.S.C. expounds ancestor chasing in a course on genealogy. Maybe they point to Warburton as a proof of Darwin’s Evolutionary theories!
P.S.—Class Officers!!
“We suggest then that the officers of the Class of 1934 take steps toward wielding together the members of the class into a group that will be a source of strength, service and pride to the individuals of the class and to Fordham.”
—Final 33-34 Ram
Something for this year’s officer’s in every one of the three classes, to consider. It’s never too soon to round into a compact class group for the purpose of holding class banquets and smokers to satisfy those of us who have been clamoring for some concentrated action, other than just for “The Big Dance.”
Memories of such affairs can’t fade even after the “sheepskin” has been passed out!
Taking No Chances
Chet Wynne, coach at Kentucky, treated the entire varsity squad to orangeades. Everything was fine until the first swallows detected castor oil in every drink!
The person who thinks a question has only tivo sides never listened to an N. D. session'.
The Notre Dame Alumnus, under the editorship of James E. Armstrong, ’25, secretary of the Alumni Association, will make its initial appearance of the school year during the early part of next week.
Featured by observation on the new administration, and the opening of
James E. Armstrong
Surveys Neio Administration
Notre Dame’s 93rd year, the first issue of the Alumnzis carries many interesting articles on the university, its professors and alumni.
Edward Heston, C.S.C., a student at Holy Cross College in Rome, contributes a first hand account of the presentation in Rome of the Laetare Medal to Mrs. Genevieve Garvin Brady, by Rev. Geo. Sauvage, C.S.C.
Three prominent members of the Alumni Association, Charles P. Kahler, ’04, Louis C. M. Reed, ’00, and Pedro de Landero, ’ll, are singled out for special attention, and a brief biographical sketch introduces them to their fellow alumni.
Joseph Petritz of the University Department of Publicity, takes an advance look into the prospects of the football team under their new tutelage, and writes a page of interesting athletic news.
A review of the history and aims of the Notre Dame College of Commerce is contributed by Alden E. Davis, instructor in Finance. He points out that the Commerce school has resisted the tendency to specialization, insisting rather on a broad foundation in principles.
The various alumni clubs were very active during the summer months, an account of their activities is included in the October issue of The Alumnus.
Seven
ELUS REVIEWS AMERICA-ENGLAND YACHT RACES
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
ANNOUNCE RULES FOR
RHODES’ SCHOLARSHIPS
Ed. note: William Ellis THE SCHOLASTIC’S art editor, worked as a member of the crew on Mr. Adam’s “Yankee” this summer. He is therefore especially qualified to review the yacht races for THE SCHOLASTIC.
Luckily for the United States 13 was an unlucky number for England. This makes the 13th time England
has challenged for America’s Cup and lost. Here’s how it started. In 1851 England invited the United States to participate in a yacht race around the Isle of Wight; the invitation was accepted and the schooner “America” led a field of 15 boats over the 53 mile course to win by 18 minutes. Since then 15 challengers have sailed into American waters in an attempt to win the Cup but none have been successful. .
The late Sir Thomas Lipton, the greatest of all yachtsmen sent five challengers over, the last in 1930.
This year the challenge came once more from the Royal Yacht Squadron, the original owners of the Cup (incidentally we might mention here that several million dollars have been spent on this trophy originally valued at 8500). For the defense honors Mr. Harold Vanderbilt turned out the “Rainbow,” the only J class boat built in the United States this year. The “Rainbow” raced against Charles Francis Adams’ Boston sloop “Yankee,” a veteran of the 1930 series, to decide which boat would defend the cup. The “Rainbow” showed up very poorly against the “Yankee” through-
(Continued on Page 17)
Congratulations—
We just want to offer a bit of congratulation to Bart Cataline upon his appointment as mailman of Alumni. For three years we have been watching his meteoric rise from oracle of old Freshman Hall to his present high position of trust. The New Jersey club can well afford to be proud of Bart.
From Walsh comes the best story of independence we have heard this year. The fellows on the third floor were complaining about the lack of softness in their mattresses. Fred Brookmeyer said nothing, but the next day a new and extremely soft mattress arrived from one of South Bend’s larger department stores. Fred is now sleeping comfortably, thank you.
Under-emphasis—
A deplorable situation has arisen on the campus this Fall, men. No longer are there inquiries as to what Dan Hanley did today, or how Pil-ney’s blocking is coming along. After dinner in the Caf no longer is there an attempt to learn who were the first-string guards this afternoon.
No, the question now is: “Did you hear what Cole shot today; or, is ' Banks back in school, and how far did Win Day get in the finals?” We would suggest that Tom LaLonde’s S.A.C. men look into the matter.
Definition of an egoist: A fellow who elects aesthetics in order to understand himself.
Thoughts while cutting—
The jaunty angle of Mr. Withey’s hat. Jack McGrath is the last of the Finchleys. Walking to his 8 o’clock, Mr. Madden always seems pre-occupied. Breen’s boquet a Sunday or so back. Ditto Fred Morris. Jerry Foley’s cute bow ties. Danny Hanley’s word that bounces: handball. Demetrio named this column.	.
Metropolitan Club Meeting
The Metropolitan Club held their first meeting last Sunday morning in the basement of the Library at 10:30. The main purpose of the gathering was to plan a Communion Breakfast to be held October 7. The Freshmen were introduced to the old members of the Club. A committee of three, Jim Shiels, Joe Sullivan, and Bob Forbes, was formed for the promotion of the Club’s athletic activities.
The Rhodes scholarships for 1934 have been announced by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. Applications for these scholarships must be presented by November 17, 1934. Elections to the scholarship will be held the first week in January 1935, and scholars elected at that time will enter the University of Oxford in October 1935.
Application is open to all who have completed their first two years of collegiate work. The election will be based on the qualities of scholastic ability, character, leadership and interest in school-mates, and physical vigor. The stipend of a Rhodes scholarship is 400 pounds, per year, a little over than $2000 which pays Oxford expenses.	.
; There is a competition for Rhodes scholarships every year in every state. Out of every six states four men finally represent these states at Oxford. No restriction is placed upon a Rhodes Scholar’s choice of studies. The scholarship is good for two years of study at Oxford and, in some cases, three.
Memorandum of regulations, application blanks and othei' information may be obtained by applying to Father Carrico.
Villagers’ Club To Hold
Initial Meeting October 1
The 1934-35 edition of the Villager’s Club activities will swing into life on October 1, when Dan Young-erman, president of the South Benders organization, calls the first meeting of the year to order.
No decision had been made as to the place of the first meeting when this story was written, but Younger-man expects to have the matter settled before the end of the week in time to send out proper announcements.
The club boasts of an eligible membership of over 200 students this year, notwithstanding the fact that qualifications for joining were definitely restricted in the spring of ’34. According to the new regulations, any Notre Dame student living within a four mile radius of South Bend or Mishawaka is entitled to membership. Others are barred.
This year, the Villager’s president intends to continue the usual banquet and business meetings held on the first Monday of every month as well as the traditional Christmas holiday dance. ..
. Officers of the club, subordinate to the president,; include: Telmo de Lan-dero, vice president; Jack Schoonover, secretary; Karl King, treasurer; Oscar Zoss, sergeant at arms.
IT h e Scholastic
Eight
Calendar
Friday, September 28
Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria offices: Editorial, 6:30 p.m.; General staff, 7 p. m.
Saturday, September 29
Upperclass Mission ends, Mass 6:30 a. m.; Varsity-Frosh football game, Stadium 2:30 p.m.; Movie, 6:45, 8:15 for freshman.
Fall Golf tournament, University Golf Course.
Sunday, September 30
Masses, Sacred Heart Church: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.
Fall Golf tournament, University Golf Course.
Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, October 1
Senior football tickets distributed: Ticket office, Main building, 2 p.m.; Blue Circle Meeting, North Basement Library, 6:45 p.m.
Tuesday, October 2
Junior football tickets distributed: 2 p.m.; Meeting of President’s Council, Library, 6:30 p.m.; New Jersey Club meeting, Brownson Rec. 7:30 p.m.; French Club Meeting; Capital District Club Smoker, Faculty Dining Hall; Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday October 3
Sophomore football tickets distributed: 2 p.m.; Patricians Meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, October 4
Freshman football tickets distributed: 2 p.m.
SYMPHONY
(Continued from Page 5)
he began teaching at summer school here at the University, having taught regularly at St. Mary’s since 1891.
He was appointed to the regular faculty of the University in 1929 and since that time he has accomplished much in bringing about a finer appreciation for classical music by the student body. Last year, with Prof. Willard L. Groom, also of the Department of Music, he presented a joint recital in Washington Hall. So well was this received that Prof. Seidel said to a Scholastic reporter last Tuesday: “We intend to offer another recital this year, because we feel that it is both a stimulant to the musicloving student and an inducement to people of South Bend to come to the University’s musical offerings.”
September 28, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Ties, Tobacco, Technicality
The rough - and - tumble element, loyal to the end, going down fighting to the last ditch, never-resting in its futile efforts to preserve the informal, tieless dinner at Notre Dame, may now take heart. There is still hope. For the first time in the memory of seniors, the candy store is selling chewing tobacco. Two packs for forty-odd cents, with a free lighter thrown in for the cigarettes that your going to smoke after your initial plug.
Whether the tie order is intended for aesthetic or utilitarian effects is debatable, inasmuch as one senior, who isn’t a lawyer but ought to be, managed to argue his way into the dining hall arrayed in a shoestring tied in a very long and wobbly bow somewhere in the neighborhood of his collar button. Claimed it was an honest-to-goodness cravat — that all the ranch hands in Texas wore them. The inspector at the door let him in on the technicality, but remarked that he wasn’t a ranch hand. That’s the funny part of it. He is.
Jack Dempsey
Jack Dempsey can’t quite make up his mind about the fight game. He likes it and he doesn’t. He has made about two million dollars but he wishes he’d gone to college instead. - We’d be inclined to head towards the two million and take our chances on the Greek verbs. Yes, and so would you.
Friday, after kicking a football around Cartier Field for 15 minutes, Dempsey admitted, like Babe Ruth did four years ago, that it was a bit out of his line. “I’m not so hot, I guess,” he said, superfluously.
Oh yes, Hannah and Junior are fine, thanks.
We Were There
One of the professors, seating his class in alphabetical order, was calling out the names when he apparently encountered a slight difficulty. Reached an impasse, as it were.
“Schmidt, Sellars, Shanahan—” he droned, and then, “Who’s in that seat?” Furiously he shuffled his cards.
At the same time, a student who had been assigned to a front row seat gave vent to his opinion on the matter. “It’s a chisel,” he announced wrathfully.
“Chisel?” repeated the professor, peering down the line. “What are you doing back among the S’s?”
Lost Sheep
We were just about despairing of a freshman story when this one burst under our very nose. Along with quite a few other, we were doing a bit of mid-week excavating on the golf course, and eventually found ourselves on the fairway near the first green. While we debated with which club and in what direction to let fly the turf, there came a faint tap on the right shoulder.
“Pardon me,” said the apparition, “but can you tell me where I go from here?” Basketball shoes, white underwear and all, he wanted to know where he should go.
It isn’t often that people come up and ask to be told where to go, and especially on a golf course, where everybody is always telling everybody else. Such an opening was received with open arms. We could easily have sat ourself down and run off any number of places, just like that, but we submerged our nastier side and asked where would he like to go.
“Well,” he said, “I’d like to get back to the gym if you don’t mind.”
We assured him we certainly did not mind, and that we’d be only too glad to see him get back to the gym, and pointed the way.
“Thanks,” he said. “You see, I’m out for cross-country and they told me to run around the lakes and over by the golf course. It doesn't seem right to me, somehow.”
We agreed with him that it didn’t seem right to us, either, and he was off. Later we investigated and found out that it was perfectly all right. The cross-country route leads around the inside of the fence to a spot on the farther side, parallel with the club house. Then down the middle it shoots.
The whole thing has us rather shaky still, and we’re not venturing on the course again until we make certain that rifle practice is restricted to the boathouse.
Class Struggle
Class-conscious Freshman Hall has begun its kerchief waving at its more affluent cousins on the platinum coast. This is a sort of instinctive practice, like the battle between capital and labor, and it requires no prompting from former frosh. Te first shot was an invitation to tea and thus far there has been no answer from the Dillonites, who are none-too-sure where this here Freshman Hall is situated.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monticrus
FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling...........Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr______________________-College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, H.__________________________Art Editor
News Staff
JOSEPH A. BUCCI----------------------------News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ---------------------......ROBERT F. ERVIN
JOHN W. WALKER--------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LOUIS H. HRUBY--------:----------------FRANK KELLY
CLIFFORD F. BROWN.________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER________________JOHN J. MORAN
ROBERT L. GROGAN----------------ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
PHILIP F. WELSH-------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST------------------Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER—______________JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER-------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER----------------JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY__________—__________„____Graduate Manager
MITCHELL C. TAGKLEY_______________________Graduate Assistant
Now the whole point of this is that dance prices here are too high. By no wild stretching of facts is it to be implied that The Scholastic is suggesting that any of the ticket money is being diverted. There is not the vaguest shadow of such a notion. The whole point is simply that too much money is being spent to stage dances at Notre Dame.
The object of the sophomore cotillion, the junior prom, and the senior ball—as indeed of every school dance— is not to make money; neither is it to be a good $8.00 dance. Their function is to be a good dance, staged at the lowest possible price and thus put within the reach of the greatest posible number of men eligible to attend.
The Scholastic admits that the dances at the schools cited above have larger crowds and usually less ballroom expense. It is also to be noted, however, that those in charge of these dances at other schools have concentrated their efforts on the staging of the best posible dance at the lowest possible price. Those in charge of Notre Dame dances during the past two or three years, seem to have proceeded with the idea of giving the best possible dance regardless of price.
The Scholastic firmly believes that local dance prices could be lowered. One way of effecting a reduction would be the abolition of favors. These ornaments, which are meaningless, worthless and usually in poor taste, frequently cost the class as much as the featured orchestra. The abolition of these favors would involve no hardship for anyone; it would, on the other hand, cut local dance prices and simultaneously allow a greater number to attend each dance.
It is to be hoped that class dances this year will be planned with economy as the keynote, and that the days of lavish plans without regard for price have passed.
SEPTEMBER 28, 1934
DANCE PRICES
Consider—
The University of Georgia “Little Commencement,” with two evening dances and one tea dance, Mal Hallet’s Coconut Grove orchestra; all-inclusive tickets at $4.00.
The Saint Louis University Varsity Prom with Hal ' Kemp’s orchestra; tickets at $5.00.
The University of Southern California Spring Revel at the Ambassador Hotel, Los Angeles, with Jimmy Grier’s and Ted Fi orito’s orchestras; tickets at $1.25.
The Indiana University Junior Prom, with Hal Kemp’s orchestra and a ticket sale limited to 450; tickets at $4.50.
The Lehigh University Junior Prom at the Hotel Bethlehem -with Ozzie Nelson’s orchestra; tickets at $4.40.
The University of California Military Ball; tickets at $1.50.
The Michigan State Frost club sports dance with Jan Garber’s orchestra; tickets at $2.20.
The Purdue University Junior Prom with Hal Kemp’s orchestra and a ticket sale limited to 500; tickets at $3.50.
The University Michigan J-Hop, with Hal Kemp’s and Henry Busse’s orchestras; tickets at $5.50.
The University of Nebraska Military Ball, with Art Kassel’s orchestra; tickets at $2.00.
The Lafayette College Junior Prom with Ozzie Nelson’s orchestra; tickets at $5.00.
The Notre Dame Junior Prom with Ted Weems’ orchestra and a dinner dance; tickets at $8.50.
The Notre Dame Senior Ball with Harry Sosnik’s orchestra and a tea dance; tickets at $8.25.
Ten
ADVICE FOR FRESHMEN
In these days, it is not probable that many freshmen come to college without the desire to participate in some extra curricular activity. •
In regard to these activities, The Scholastic would like to make two points clear to freshmen. First, that under no circumstances should class activity be sacrificed for outside activity. Many have been the freshmen who failed to become sophomores simply because they thought class politics more important than classroom work.
The second point The Scholastic wishes to make clear? is that activities should be chosen wisely. Notre Dame offers a wide field of extra curricular work. One cannot participate in every branch of it, and since this is true one should critically select the particular activities in which he wishes to engage.
There are a legion of openings for freshmen in practically every branch of activity. In the publication field both John Walker, editor of the Dome, and Albert Lawton, editor of Scrip, have places for freshmen. The Scholastic will soon issue a general call for candidates. George Demetrio is still receiving aspirants for the 1938 managerships of Notre Dame’s athletic teams. The Linnets, Glee Club, Band, and orchestras will welcome any talented freshmen. Class politics will soon come to the fore. Various campus clubs are receiving applications for membership from freshmen.
Whichever activity you choose, be sure to choose with discrimination and caution. If you put class work first and then select a worthy activity, which will return valuable experience for the time expended, The Scholastic feels sure that your life at Notre Dame will be happier.
‘The Scholastic.
i,
♦ SPORTS ♦
■nous seiecib ANNUAL varsite-freshman game FOR FOOTBALL GAMES |f| STAD1UM IOJ|ORROW AFTERNOON
The officials for the Notre Dame football games are listed below. It was imposible at this early date to secure the names of the officials for the Southern California game.
Men who have done the officiating in some of the country’s leading contests every year, will run several of the Irish tilts. Frank Birch, Lee Daniels, John Schommer, Joe Lipp, Colonel Hackett, Masker, Magidsohn, and Young are among the well known men who will call the penalties.
Texas—referee, Birch (Earlham); umpire, Mucks (Wisconsin); head linesman, Wyatt (Missouri); field judge, Daniels (Loyola).
Purdue — referee, Birch (Earlham) ; umpire, Schommer (Chicago); head linesman, Lipp (Chicago); field judge, Laurie (Princeton).
Carnegie Tech—referee, Magidsohn (Michigan); umpire, Haines (Yale); head linesman, Hogan (DeKalb); field judge, Young (Illinois Wesleyan).
Wisconsin — referee, ' Masker (Northwestern); umpire, Schommer (Chicago); head linesman, Knight (Dartmouth); field judge, Huegel (Marquette).	.
Pittsburgh—referee, Carson (Penn State); umpire, Watkys (Syracuse); head linesman, Hoban (Dartmouth); field judge, Hackett (West Point).
Navy—referee, Gardner (Illinois); umpire, Hedges (Dartmouth); head linesman, Lipp (Chicago); field judge, Reid.
Northwestern — referee, Gardner (Illinois); umpire, Hedges (Dartmouth); head linesman, Lipp (Chicago) ; field judge, Reid.
Army — referee, Laurie (Princeton) ; umpire, Hedges (Dartmouth); head linesman, Wilson (Williams); field judge, Young (Illinois Wesleyan)
Students and Faculty
May View Grid Workouts
It has been customary for the University to allow the students and faculty access to the practice field during the pre-season training period and later on during the regular season. This custom is to be continued this fall.	‘
There is a single request on the part of the coaches and managers, and that is that the onlookers leave the field at the start of all signal drills and dummy scrimmages.
Broadcasters Will Handle All Notre Dame Football Games' In Coining Season
All of Notre Dame’s football games this fall will be broadcasted. The Carnegie Tech tilt on Oct. 20 will be more heavily laden with stations than any other home game this season. Seven stations in addition to either the National or. Columbia Broadcasting Companies will be on the air with the play by play account of this engagement.
The Wisconsin game will carry five stations along with the National or Columbia Broadcasting systems. At this writing, station WGN of Chicago is the only one listed to carry the Northwestern game .at Evanston, Ill. The Pittsburgh game will be carried over either the National or Columbia networks, while the Army game in New York will probably be aired over both chains. There is nothing definite as yet on the broadcast of the Southern California game in Los Angeles on Dec. 20.
The. following list of stations and the respective games carried by each:
Texas, Oct. 6 — Stations WSBT, South Bend; WBBM, Chicago.
Purdue,Oct. 13 — WSBT, South Bend; WBBM, Chicago; WBKF, Indianapolis; and either the National or Columbia systems.
■ Carnegie Tech, Oct. 20 — WSBT, South Bend; WBBM,. Chicago; WKBF, - Indianapolis; KQV, Pittsburgh; WWSW, Pittsburgh; and either the National or Columbia systems.
Wisconsin, Oct. 27—WSBT, South Bend; WBBM, Chicago; WKBF, Indianapolis; WTMJ, Milwaukee ; WIBA, Madison; and either the Columbia or National systems.
Northwestern, Nov. 17 —WGN, Chicago.
Forty Candidates Will Vie For Freshman Net Crown
Forty candidates will battle for the freshman tennis singles championship. The matches will get under way on the University courts as soon as the upperclass tourney is completed.
The . caliber of the frosh is unknown, except that many of the contestants have displayed unusual ability in practice.
GAME IS CALLED AT 2:30
By Joseph P. Prendergast
The Notre Dame student body and all others concerned will receive their first glimpse of the varsity football squad of 1934 in action tomorrow afternoon in the stadium at 2:30 p.m.
Dom Vairo
The Frosh will be amazed.
- when it stacks up against Coach “Kitty” Gorman’s freshman outfit.
The future stars of the Irish will receive their first taste of Notre Dame football Saturday afternoon . when they line up against the varsity for the opening kickoff. The game is an annual affair, usually very beneficial to the coaches in that it gives them a pretty fair idea of who’s who on the squad. The students benefit from the contest to the extent of acquainting themselves with the different players and finding out what to expect of the eleven this season.
Coach Elmer Layden will not select his starting lineup till game-time, because of the practical equality of many of the candidates on the roster. The varsity line will be the focal point of the eyes of the crowd tomorrow, pre-season dope giving vent to the belief that it will not be on a par with the backfield. The center of the line, from tackle to tackle, was completely demolished by graduation. It is doubtful how Coach Layden’s new forward wall will function. .
(Continued on Page 16)
September 2 8, 1934
Eleven
Bill Cole Leads Field in Fall
Golf Tourney at Half Way Mark
LAYDEN DRILLS IRISH
AS TEXAS GAME LOOMS
FRESHMAN TAKES SECOND
By Robert J. Donahue
The fifth annual University fall golf tournament got under way last Saturday and Sunday with a large field competing, and at the end of the first 36 holes of the 72 hole route Bill Cole, senior in the College of Commerce, and member of the varsity golf team, leads the procession with a two round total of 147 strokes. A 73 on Saturday and a 74 on Sunday were good enough to give him a five stroke advantage over Al Mailhes of the freshman class.
Win Day Is Fourth
Next in line comes Tom Doyle with 155, John Montedonico 156, and the defending champion, Win Day, with a 36-hole score of 157. The latter’s putting touch forsook him completely during Saturday’s round. His bad work on the greens is responsible for his being 10 strokes behind the leader. Whether or not he can close up this gap in the next two days play and retain his title is highly questionable.
Cole played practically perfect golf throughout the first two rounds, seldom making mistakes and always seeming to recover successfully and not to waste very many strokes. He was over par figures on only two of the first 18 holes and on but four holes of the second round. He was off the fairway on only four holes of the 36 and three putted one green— the 18th where he failed to get down in two strokes from 20 feet.
Pairings In Clubhouse
The Rev. Geo. L. Holderith, C.S.C., has prepared starting times, pairings and handicaps for the final 36 holes of play and listings of these are to be found in the clubhouse.
The low card and the 36 hole scores of the leaders ar as follows:
Cole: out—4	5 4 4 5 3 3 4 5—37
Cole: in—1	4 3 4 4 3 6 3 5—36—73
out—4	5 4 4 5 3 3 4 5—37
in—5	4 3 5 3 3 5 3 6—37—74—147
Al Mailhes 75	77—152
Tom DoJ’le _____________77	78—155
John Montedonico _______73	83—156
Winfield Day_____________81	76—157
Bill Castleman _________80	78—158
Bill Taylor 79	80—159
Pat Malloy __________..-80	80—160
Herman Green ___________77	83—160
Edw. McCabe______________83	77—160
Tom Dunn 84	78—162
Lou Fehlig _____________82	82—164
Fran Dunn ____________—.80	84—164
Jack Robinson, Star Center of 1932 Eleven, Returns To Campus After Illness
Along with the third week of school came the welcome news of Jack Robinson’s return to the campus—and the football wars. The unfortunate death of his father had pre-
Jack Robinson
Hardly needs an introduction.
vented Jack’s earlier entrance, and had led to campus rumors that he was not to return.
An introduction to this center, who in his sophomore year could show enough to play Kitty Gorman and Ben Alexander, veteran linemen, on even terms, is hardly necessary. A potential All-American in 1932 and considered a sure thing for the following season, Jack is back—to show that these trusts were not misfounded. His participation in last year’s campaign was made impossible by an eye infection that at times threatened to take his sight.
Several operations have been performed on the lame optic, however, and it has responded admirably. He appears now to be at the peak of condition and an early return to his old form can be expected. Jack’s great center play featured a defense against passing that in ’32 ranked second to none.
Elected Director
James S. Kearns, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic last year, was recently elected to the Alumni board as the Director for the class of ’34.
Kearns has been a member of the sport staff of the Chicago Daily News since his graduation from the School of Journalism in June.
By Joe Prendergast
The Notre Dame football squad with a week of practice work behind it is gradually rounding itself into tip-top condition. Coach Elmer Layden and his able crew of assistants have been drilling the boys solely on fundamentals the past week, basing their hope for a “fair season” on the belief that winning elevens are masters of fundamentals.
The outstanding developments of the past week were the shifting of George Melinkovich, All - American fullback of the ’32 campaign, to right halfback; the stress and time devoted to field goal kicking; and the noticeable improvement in the passing of Andy Pilney and Mike Layden.
The shifting of Melinkovich to right halfback to help fill the gap left by the death of Johnny Young is a tentative switch by Coach Layden. “Mink” was originally a left halfback. Hunk Anderson changed him over to a fullback in the fall of ’31 because of lack of replacements at this spot. In both the ’31 and ’32 seasons he carried the mail in fine fashion at his new position. In last Saturday’s scrimmage, “Mink,” again showed himself to good advantage, this time as right halfback. On the opening play from scrimmage, he cracked through the line and raced sixty yards for the first score of the afternoon. The remainder of Mink’s time in the ball game was futile, he failing to get a breath of open air.
Place Kickers Are Numerous
Wayne Millner, left end; Bud Bonar, and Bill Bruno, quarterbacks; were all given considerable opportunity the past week to improve their place kicking ability. Coach Layden holds field goals in high respect. His teams at Duquesne University were on the right side of the won and lost column many times through the use of this effective weapon. In Saturday’s scrimmage, Millner made good once in two attempts to boot the ball through the uprights.
Andy Pilney, left halfback, and Mike Layden, right halfback, showed improved accuracy in tossing passes during the last few workouts. Pilney is taking more time in his passing thus making sure of an eligible receiver.
The blocking of the squad as a whole in Saturday’s skirmishes was decidedly off color. Much of the time this week will be spent on this item as well as plenty of calisthenics and wind developing exercises. Coach Layden plans to have each player able to go through sixty minutes of hard football without a let-up by the time the opening game with Texas rolls around.	.
The Scholastic

Twelve
COACHES GROOM TEAMS FOR INTERHALL RACE
Squad Reports to Nicholson;
Irish Mentor Sees Fair Year
With the opening of the interhall football season less than two weeks distant, all the teams have begun practice for their initial games. Fourteen teams, including Sorin and Off Campus, will battle for the crown won by Lyons last year.
Alumni looms as a strong contender for the title and is favored to win. Most of last year’s championship squad from Lyons are residing in the junior hall. Strong teams are expected from the freshmen halls, and a large number of likely varsity men are expected to be uncovered.
More than one player has been plucked from interhall ranks and placed on the varsity roster. In 1931 the playing of Brownson’s right end attracted the attention of the coaches. His rise in varsity ranks was meteoric. That man is the captain of the 1934 Irish team, Dom Vairo.
The schedule for the opening games on Oct. 7. will be published in next week’s issue of The Scholastic.
Members of the junior class in the ' department of physical education will coach the hall teams, and the varsity squad members will officiate at all the games.
Twenty-six Report For First Fencing Meeting
In response to the call issued by Mr. de Landero in last week’s Scholastic, twenty-six reported for the first fencing meeting Sept. 24. Fencing practice will begin the first week in October and Mr. de Landero expects approximately eighty fencing enthusiasts to report.
Mr. de Landero hopes the squad will be made up of many Freshmen and Sophomores, wishing to build up . a strong team for the future. Underclassmen are desired because the experience they will receive in practice will prove to be a valuable asset and thus Mr. de Landero plans to build up strong teams for coming years.
Rifle Team to Organize Monday in Brownson Rec
All members of, and candidates for, the rifle team are requested to meet next Monday night, October 2, in Brownson Rec to discuss plans for the coming year.
John McGrath, last year’s captain and manager, announces a greatly expanded program included upon which are the Hearst Trophy and Intercollegiate Championship matches. AU members of the 1934 undefeated team are back at school with the exception of Harold May.
September 28, 193 4
Layden Divides Squad Into “A” and “B” Units to Make It More Manageable
Coach Elmer F. Layden announced a new policy this week concerning his large and unwieldly football squad. The men have been divided into an “A” and “B” squad. The latter group will be under the personal guidance of Bill Cerney, Layden’s understudy in 1924. The “A” group will come under the close scrutiny of the four present varsity coaches.
Layden expalined the move as a method of giving more attention to the men who will be seen in action against the Irish opponents this fall. Progress, which has been noticeable, will be speeded up under the new system, The Zipper believes.
Men who were chosen on the original “A” squad are not necessarily permanent fixtures of the group. A man in the lower squad may replace one in the higher group if his play warrants it. The “B” squad is identical with the reserve squad which will, in all probability play a regular schedule of games during the ensuing months.
James Armstrong Speaks To American Alumni Council
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Secretary of the Notre Dame Association, is in Washington Thursday and Friday of this week attending the Fall meeting of the Aims and Policies Committee of the American Alumni Council.
Mr. Armstrong was appointed to this committee, which, as its name implies, shapes the policies of the organization. The appointment comes after nine years of membership in the organization, seven of which have been as a national officer of the Council.
The principal project for discussion at the present meeting is the promotion of a Higher Education Week in the spring of 1935 in con-juction with the American College Publicity Association. The Notre. Dame Alumni Association, through Mr. Armstrong and William R. Dooley, ’26, former editor of The Scholastic, has been very active for the past year in the promotion of Catholic higher education particularly.
X-COUNTRY TEAM WEAK
By James McMullen
The annual report of Coach Nicholson is hereby presented. Track can start any time now. “We’ll have a fair team,” states “Nick,” it may even be good—but not wonderful, you un-
Coach John P. Nicholson A bit optimistic this time.
derstand. Maybe in dual meets, a little better than last year’s — who knows?” And they keep getting better, each year going beyond their expectations, and especially the “Nicli-olson expectations.”
Veterans On Hand
The addition of several promising sophomores has made the outlook for a successful season considerably brighter than last year’s. In the sprints Boyle and Moore threaten to make Frawley, a veteran of last year, step for high honors. Parson in the quarter mile, and Hockter, a broadjumper, also look promising. Levicki, a second year man, will carry the main load in the javelin throw, as well as assist Elser and Joe Sullivan with the weights.
Veterans, however, are not absent from the picture. Rubly, Bernard and Bowdren are back to run the quarter and should serve as the nucleus for an exceptional mile relay team. Leo McFarlane, who is at present recovering from a leg injury, and Gett, will handle the two mile, while veterans DuCassa, McGrath, and Jim Shiels return for the half. Mike Layden, minus injuries, and after the football season, can be depended on in the hurdles with Flynn and Carl Link furnishing him plenty of local competition.
Meagher, only broadjumper of last year’s squad left and Edwards in the pole vault is also deserted. The lat-(Continued on Page 16)
T b i r t e e n
INTRO DUC ING
By Joseph P. Prendergast
FAVORITES ADVANCE
IN TENNIS TOURNEY
In the fall of 1931 there came the University of Notre Dame a boy all the way from old Louisiana. His only luggage was two traveling bags and a keen desire some day to make the Notre Dame football team. His name, Irwin Vincent Davis; his weight, 150 pounds; and his height, 5 feet 10% inches.
Now to the fall of 1933—the scene, the Irish dressing room in the University of Pittsburgh’s stadium just prior to the Carnegie Tech game. Hunk Anderson is naming the starting lineup for the clash. “ . . . left end, Millner; right end, Davis ...”
The same “Footes” Davis from the Delta state. He is realizing the fulfillment of his first desire on arriving at Notre Dame. His weight now has. jumped to 187 pounds and he has
Fourteen
toreached the six foot mark in height. It was in this game that he received his baptism of football. The Irish, sad to say, were defeated 7 to 0 but Irwin Davis played a hangup game of football that day, being praised for his fine work in the Pittsburgh papers of the next day.
“Footes” is twenty years old, hails
from Ponchatoula, Louisiana. He prepped at Ponchatoula High School. While attending high school, Irwin played fotball, basketball, ran the quarter mile and put the shot for the track team, competing in these sports for all four years. During his high school career he played both ends in football and was called out of the line on numerous occasions to either pass
(Continued on Page 15)
- By John L. Glanzner
The Upperclassmen tennis tournament is under way on the University courts, and all the favorites advanced with little opposition. No upsets were recorded.
Sixty-eight players entered the tournament to contest for tennis honors among upperclassmen. The semifinal matches will be played Saturday afternoon and the final Sunday.
Bill Fallon, defending champion, anxious to repeat his 1933 triumph, swamped Morrison with a barrage of scorching drives and volleys to win in straight love sets. Fallon has been seeded first in the draw. He is followed by Buchard, Joe Waldron, Weldon, Prendergast, Cannon, Fredericks and Specht.
Captain Frank Weldon played under wraps to beat Duffy 6-0, 6-2. Duffy was unable to handle Weldon’s terrific drives to backcourt. In the second set, Weldon made a series of errors and lost two games, but, he put on pressure and won easily.
Ed Buchard, seeded second, loomed as a dangerous threat for the championship. His repertoire of shots includes a tantalizing drop shot, a sizzling drive and a cannonball service. Joe Prendergast was not pressed in defeating Murphy 6-0, 6-1. His ver-' satility bewildered his opponent and forced Murphy into numerous errors.
The steadiest play of the opening day was displayed by Joe Waldron. He smothered Bruccali in straight sets, 6-1, 6-0. Cannon, Fredericks and Specht, the other seeded stars, encountered little opposition in polishing off their first round opponents.
Coach de Landero hopes to gain an insight into next spring’s tennis squad by means of the tournament. The material is the brightest in years. A steady downpour of rain halted play after the completion of the first round Wednesday.
Results in the first round:
Kaufmann defeated Gonring 1-6, 6-2, 6-2. Wentworth defeated Hollenhach 6-3, 6-4. Demots defeated Cassidy 6-1, 6-1.
Prendergast defeated Murphy 6-0, 6-1. Hackett defeated Demer (default). Hackenbrush defeated Hickey 6-4, 3-6, 7-5. Shapiro defeated Weinman 6-0, 6-2.
Fox defeated Nienaber 6-1, 6-2.
Valdes defeated Doyle 6-2, 6-2.
Bray defeated Anderson 6-2, 6-1, Weldon defeated Duffy 6-0, 6-2. McKay defeated Hobert 6-1, 6-0. Fredericks defeated Misher (default). O’Boyle defeated Lawton (default). Snooks defeated Fitzpatrick 6-0, 6-2.	-
Feeley defeated Ervin 6-4, 7-5.	'
Cannon defeated Bernbrook 6-1, 6-2.
Cockley defeated C. de Landero 3-6, 6-3, 6-2.
Farrell defeated Gusherean 6-2, 6-3.	'
‘The Scholastic
NTEDS
FROM THE
PRESS BOX
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
I
VERSATILITY
This man Layden. In 1924 they trembled and quaked when he tucked the oval under' his arm and started through the line or around the end. Now, t.en years later, this same slim frame of concentrated dynamite has nine football coaches trembling and quaking.
They fear him because they know of his versatility as a coach. This quality he again demonstrated recently in three ways. His decision to try Melin-kovich at right half, his revival of a discarded scoring weapon, the field goal, and his pronouncement in. favor of shorter practice sessions involving fewer scrimmages, shows why the Irish opponents are taking cognizance of his presence.
If Mink is able to get the hang of things at his new post, the Irish will be strengthened considerably. It was a wise move by Layden to give Mink a chance, otherwise he might be forced to share playing time with the other fullbacks. This would be none too good, for George is a bit too handy to leave swaddled in sweat-clothes on the sidelines.
Layden has taken the remnants of last year’s team, one of the weakest scoring aggregations in Irish history, and is trying to inject the ’touchdown habit into it. Whether he will be successful or not remains to be seen. But if he isn’t, he has prepared to make up for it in part, at least, by returning to Notre Dame football the habit of kicking field goals. Rockne discarded it several years ago and Hunk Anderson chose not to dig it out.
Whether there was a need to restore this three point weapon in the past, is neither here nor there. At present, however, Layden believes there might be reason to revive it and consequently is canvassing his squad for a man who can boot ’em between the uprights from various angles and distances should his injection of touchdown serum fail.
An eastern sports writer dislikes the idea of shifting Melin-- kovich. That is, he believes such changes should be made in the spring and not so close to the opening of the season. He frowns on it as little less than
September 2 8, 193 4
OUR OWN BRAIN TRUST
Notre Dame Coaching Staff
These arc the men who will guide the 1034 Fighting Irish through their coming nine game schedule. From left to right, Joe Boland, line coach, Chet Grant, backfield coach, Tom Conley, end coach, and Elmer Layden, head coach.
revolutionary. But regardless of how revolutionary this or any change may be, it might occur to the eastern scribe that a revolution in Notre Dame football is the ultimate goal of this stern horseman — a revolution against defeat, in favor of victory.
WE PICK
Here are the first selections of the year. We admit they are simple— almost too easy for opening games. But on the other side, there are such things as upsets. Without further discussion we present 25 games, the first three of which brought hesita- . tion before prediction. WE PICK:
Northwestern over Marquette.
IT. C. L. A. over Oregon.
Stanford over Santa Clara.	•
Alabama over Howard.
Army over Washbum.	.
Brown over Boston.
Carnegie Tech over Geneva.
Chicago over Carroll.
Dartmouth over Norwich.
Duke over V. M. I.
Florida over Rollins.
Georgia over Stetson.
Georgia Tech over Clemson.
Washington over Idaho.
Illinois over Bradley.
Indiana over Ohio.
Iowa over South Dakota.
Michigan State over Grinnell.
Minnesota over North Dakota State.
Navy over William and Mary.
Pittsburgh over Washington and Jefferson.
Southern California over Pacific.
Vanderbilt over Mississippi State.
Washington State over Montana.
Louisiana State over Rice.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
or kick from the fullback position.
In his senior year at Ponchatoula High he played against one Joe Beach, then attending Holy Cross College High School of New Orleans. Now they are teammates on Coach Layden’s squad.
While at Notre Dame “Footes” has been a member of Coach Nicholson’s track team for three years and has had his name on the football roster for the same period of time. He has been termed, “the most perfect physical specimen on the campus,” having posed as a model for the students in the Fine Arts School of the University. Irwin worked the past summer along with John Michuta on the campus, painting the gymnasium: He rooms in 15 Sorin Hall with Karl Fulnecky.
“Footes” is a senior in the School of Physical ■ Education, minoring in economics and intends to coach when his studies are over. When asked what he liked best, next to football —Karl, his roommate interrupted and said, “Ester Marie and omit the ‘next to’.”
New Jersey Club
A meeting of the New Jersey Out will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 2, at 7:30 in the Brownson Rec room. All new freshmen from New Jersey are invited to attend.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
“DIZZY” DEAN sore at Manager FRISCH? Quote Dean: “Frisch is great. He’s kept the Cardinals in the race right up to the wire with only two pitchers—PAUL and ME. Nice fella, Dizzy. ...” The Tribune wasn’t the only one to string with ROSS in that McLARNIN argument—21 of 27 leading scribes felt the same way. . . . SLEEPY JIM CROWLEY, Rockne taught, is using an unbalanced line this season at Fordham. Gentleman—this is heresy for followers of the Master’s system. . . . VERNON KIRBY, 125 pound court sensation, learned his game in Durban, South Africa, on a court made of sand from huge ant hills. . . . The latest exploit of P. GHOSE, champion swimmer of India, was to swim for 50 hours — handcuffed in the university tank, Dacca, Bengal. . . . That’s nothing — in Japan, champion wrestlers seldom weigh less than 400 pounds . . . While our own “Little” JIM LONDOS includes six quarts of milk on his daily training diet — the big baby! . . . FRANCIS X. SHIELDS, ranking tennis star of America, was given a screen test last week—Experts of the flicker art say he has a great voice.
MAX BAER reads Emily Post— Says it’s great stuff. ... A crowd of 50,000 was the largest in English ring history, watched FREDDIE MILLER, World’s Featherweight champion, win from NEL TARLETON, British champion. ... In an effort to host attendance, the New Bedford team of the Northeastern baseball league staged a wrestling show before a regular league contest (page Cy Connors). . . . HARVEY ROOKER, “The Tarentum Fireman” is showing great early fall form for the Pitt Panthers. Irish beware! . . . Purdue may present a pair of brothers to opposing pigskinners— WAYNE and DICK SANDEFUR are attracting a lot of attention down there. . . . JOCK SUTHERLAND, Pitt coach, says ANDY KERR is going to have THE power of the East at Colgate this season . . . while Andy says Jock will have the strongest outfit along the Atlantic. . . . Brotherly love, eh? . . . FRED PERRY world tennis champion, once held the international table tennis title, too. . . . Polo balls are made of wood . . . and come dirt cheap at 35 cents a throw. . . . The latest puzzling development (this makes an even 500 of them) in the competition for the America’s Cup, came when Harold Vanderbilt tossed a ton of scrap iron into the insides of the boat, Rainbow. . . .
The slightest added weight is supposed to cancel a boat’s chance for xictory. . . .
•
PAT O’DEA, of the now famous “lost and found” case, was not only a star football player but also Western Intercollegiate low hurdles champion one year and later coached the Stanford crew. . . . Kenyon college becomes the first Mid-Western school to introduce Polo as major sport. . . . HUSTLING CASEY STEN GAL, manager of the Brooklyn Daffiness boys, has been ordered off the field by umpires more than any other manager in the National League. . . . No name that has been used by a horse in the last 15 years can be used by an owner to tag a new pony. . . . Speaking of the nags, Bookies had to pay off on a dead one the other week. . . . DARK SECRET broke down three strides after beating Faireno by a head for the Jockey Club Gold Cup. ... It costs sixty-five dollars in electric current to stage a night baseball game. . . . When they want horse shoes pitched expertly at Flandeau, S. D., they call out the GEDNALSKI BROTHERS—seven of them. They comprise the championship quoits septet there. . . . Grandstand seats for the East-West polo matches went rapidly at $22 a copy. . . . The English challenger, ENTERPRISE, cost $1,000,-000 to construct. . . . WALLY BERGER, Brave’s outfielder, is known as the “Handsome Duke,” because he looks like a movie hero up there at the plate. . . . BERKLEY BELL frequently plays nine holes of golf between tournament tennis matches.
They’re talking about matching CARNERA and old VICTORIO CAMPOLO, the Argentine heavy, at Buenos Aires, we suppose. . . . Never has Princeton Tigers had two allconquering elevens in consecutive years—critics seem to be forgetting that. . . . VIRGIL DAVIS, one of Baseball’s most superstitious boys, recently sent a bat boy all the way to the bull pen so Dazzy Vance coul^ do a few incantations over his bat. . . . GEORGE EARNSHAW was to reecive $500 for each game above ten he won for the White Sox, while Earl Averill was to get $400 for each homer over 25. . . . All public swimming baths in the near future will be kept pure by ultra-violet rays, whose barrage no germ can survive. . . . ELEANOR HOLM JARRETT, backstroke swimming queen, believes that diets in sports should be Taboo. “Steak and potatoes for me,” she says. . . .
•
One World’s Series — coming up, A few facts, past and present. ... The Detroit Tigers were victims of the first Series home run—Credit it
to JOE TINKER of the Cubs—1908. . . . Not since the War Series of ’18 has there been a World Series without a four bagger. . . . Twenty-eight hits were pounded out in nine innings by the Giants and Yankees in 1921. . . . This is the record for hitting in one game of the classics. . . . Low hit games have been common. . . . There have been seven two-hit affairs; 20 three-hit and 20 four-hit games. ... The highest batting average for any series—.625—was compiled by BABE RUTH against the Cardinals in 1928. . . . The Giants are the only team in history to win a World Series by shutouts. . . . This happened in 1905—victims—the Athletics. ... And Christy Mathewson pitched three of ’em! ... In the 29 official series, only 33 hitters have gone through with a batting average of .400 or better. . . . Bill Terry and Mickey Cochrane are two of this famed list. ... Let’s go, boys! • . .
FALL TRACK
(Continued from Page 12)
ter event promises to be Nick’s sore spot. In the weights Don Elser and Joe Sullivan, both tossers of considerable merit, should prove steady point scorers. Vince Murphy, high jumper par excellence, is the star and most consistent performer of the veterans to return. Always good for around 6 ft. 5 in. Vince has made and will probably continue to make, his event an early concession to the Irish.
This material, reenforced by men Coach Nicholson is sure to bring around into contending positions, gives followers of the Green an optimistic and rosy outlook. The injury to McFarlane has blasted all hopes of anything out.of the ordinary, from cross country and that department of the game is being used merely as a conditioner for the distance men. Nick calls them a bust —maybe they’ll do something after all.
FROSH-VARSITY
(Continued from Page 11)
There is little doubt as to the outcome of the contest. The varsity is much too powerful for the ’38 men. The freshmen .will have plenty of fight and capable reserves, nevertheless, to provide the upperclassmen with many interestinf moments.
The game is an all afternoon affair, lasting usually three hours with every man on the field receiving a chance to play.
Students will be admitted with their A.A. books through gate 15 only. A fee of twenty-five cents will be charged to all others seeking admission.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
. M’CABE AND BERRY
BEGIN EDITING LAWYER
Co-editors ’ Joseph A. McCabe and John A. Berry intend to have the ' first issue of this year’s Notre Dame Lawyer ready -for distribution sometime early in November. A more exact date for the release of this stu-
Joseph A. McCabe
The Lawyer is his third.
dent’s law journal will be announced by them later.
To date, neither editor has stated that he intends making any important changes in the policy or mechanical make-up of the magazine. On the contrary, Mr. Berry said that the familiar, standardized sections of the Lawyer will very likely be continued. These include the “book review,” “re-_ cent decisions” and “notes” sections. to
Stanley Rosenstein has been selected as business manager for the coming school year. The other staff positions of circulating manager, advertising manager, exchange manager, and assistant business manager are still open. These will be filled by appointment in about two weeks.
Mr. William D. Rollison, faculty advisor of the Lawyer, stated that the magazine will continue to be issued in the traditional quarterly f) form, being released in November, January, March, May as always. This year, work will be begun on the tenth volume of this lawyer publication.
University Information
Students who desire to send information to friends concerning the University, particularly to boys who may be interested in coming to school, can have illustrated literature or catalogue sent by turning in the J/ name, and address at the Alumni Office in the Main Building.
September 2 8, 193 4
AMERICAN CUP
(Continued from Page 8)
out the summer but in the trials she managed to eke out a one second win over the Adams’ boat and was so chosen to defend.
Meanwhile over in England, T. 0. M. Sopwith’s blue hulled challenger, “Endeavour',” was being tuned up for the match by racing against the “Vel-. sheda.” England felt, and rightfully so, that in “Endeavour” they had the most dangerous of all challengers. Practically on the eve of her departure for this country the British boat suffered a mishap which certainly had a great deal of bearing on the final outcome of the series. Her professional crew struck for higher wages and Mr. Sopwith had to whip together an amateur crew almost overnight.
The first race was disallowed due to a breach of the time limit and the “Endeavour” took the next two races easily. Strengthened by the arrival of some of the Yankee’s perfect fitting sails, Mr. Vanderbilt handled his boat very nicely and overcame England’s lead to win the seris with four straight races.
It is the opinion of the majority of yachtsmen that had the “Endeavour” crew been an experienced one the outcome of the match would have been vastly different.
Mr. Sopwith may not have succeeded in his efforts to ‘lift the Old Mug’ as Sir* Thomas Lipton would put it, but he certainly showed himself to be a sportsman of the first order and to him we say “Better luck next time and Carry On.”
The SAFEST QUICKEST Most CONVENIENT WAY TO CHICAGO
Annual Scholarship Dance To Be Held on Oct. 5
The annual Scholarship Dance, under the auspices of the Scholarship Club of South Bend, will be held next Friday evening, Octobei' 5, at the Jefferson Plaza from 8:30 to 11:30.
Freshmen at Notre Dame are invited to attend the dance, with or without the company of a girl. Those falling into the latter class will be taken care of by the officers of the club, who make it a policy every year to provide girls for the stags. Sophomores and upperclassmen are also invited to the affair.
Tickets may be purchased from the rectors of the various halls at one dollar. The Jefferson Plaza, the former Knights of Columbus Building, is located at 370 W. Jefferson Blvd. Permissions will be granted students to remain away from the campus until midnight, with the usual provisions involved.	•
Each of the men attending the dance will, upon entering, be given a chance on two box seat tickets for the Texas game. . Six tickets will be awarded, no one man being eligible to win more than two.
Ride the
SOUTH SHORE
LINE
All-steel cars protect you from danger on this direct route to Chicago.
Besides the safety and comfort of the South Shore Line, the low cost round trip fares save you money. Frequent service.
IT’S CHEAP, TOO! from
SOUTH BEND
ROUND e TRIP *
FARE
15-Day Return Limit
For more information, ask C. W.. Veach, City Pass. Ast.. 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
ANO
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

J
PATRICIANS
All students interested in joining the Patricians are requested to leave a letter of application at room 227 Sorin Hall. The letter must embody the following information : name of applicant, address, reason for wishing to join. The closing date for all applications is Wednesday, Oct. 10.
Seventeen
Pres. Kilmurry’s Bookmen
Discuss Library at Meeting
In the first meeting of the Bookmen during the current school year President Edward Kilmurry discussed problems of administration and policy were discussed. It was agreed that former members now residing on the campus or in the proximate vicinity are to be extended an honorary membership in the organization. Considerable animated discussion, led by George Krug, evolved over the selection of a faculty advisor; at adjournment the members were still in discord on this point. Mr. Kilmurry exhorted the members to compile an ample but conservative list from which the books for the Bookmen’s library are to be selected.
At the next meeting, besides choosing books, the membership committee, under the chairmanship of Ben Bey-rer is to be announced. The procedure of ’ eliminating the candidates for membership will then be debated.
’ K. of C. Lay New Plans
At Its Initial Meeting
The Knights of Columbus held their first regular council meeting of the yeai' Monday evening, Sept. 24, in the council rooms in Walsh Hall. The Council had previously opened the year with a Communion Breakfast Sunday, Sept. 23.
At the meeting, plans were discussed and new forms of entertainment were added to the program. Grand Knight Sexton stressed the importance of the membership drive in which the freshman halls will probably be canvassed within the next few weeks. Brother McGuire was appointed chairman of the membership drive committee and will select the brothers who will assist him in canvassing the halls. The committee will attempt to replace the members lost by graduation.
The Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., who is spending the year at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., sent his resignation as trustee of the Council.
Brother Ray Martin, editor of the Santa Maria, outlined his plans for the year. Martin intends to publish a bigger and better magazine than the Council has produced in several years. He has selected Brothers Robert Grogan, John Coyne, and Edward McNally to serve on the staff. John Clark will be business manager. More appointments will be made in the near future.
The next council meeting will be held Monday evening, Oct. 1. All members are urged to be present as many important decisions will be made.	■
Eighteen
BLUE CIRCLE
(Continued from Page 1)
graduates are not in sympathy with his actions.
The organization will also volunteer when the University needs a corps of men to usher at concerts, distribute adoration cards, etc. It will continue to plan the programs for pep meetings, and student body entertainments, in addition to taking over the functions performed last year by the rally committee which has since been discontinued.
Only three memberships will be reserved each year for leaders of other campus activities. The three to be honored this year are John Carbine, editor of The Scholastic; John Walker, editor of the Dome, and G. Gilbert Lawton, editor of Scrip.
Chairman William E. Miller announced this week that the Blue Circle will hold its first meeting of the current school year in the North Basement of the Library on Monday evening, October 1st, at 6:45 p. m.
All members are requested to attend since it will be necessary to draw up plans for the pep meeting prior to the opening game with Texas.
William Miller, chairman; John Hawley, James J. Coll, Dan Finn, Frank Matavesky, James McDevitt, John T. Donavan, John F. Clark, Phil Walker, Leo Cushing, Bill Keefe.
Martin Burns, John G. Malloy, Walter O’Brien, Edmund Joyce, John Britton, Matt Themes, Bill Gorgen, John Neeson, John Carbine, George A. Lawton, John Walker.
G, W. Blair Will Address Engineers on Wednesday
Mr. G. W. Blair, of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Goods Company, will address the Engineers’ Club at its first meeting next Wednesday afternoon. Mr. Blair’s talk promises to be an interesting one for he was considered the best speaker which the club had last year, according to Jerome Cushing, president of the club.
Cushing’s plans for the year include speakers from the Union Carbide Co., Inland Steel Co., and Westinghouse Electric Co., who will talk on practical engineering problems as their companies see them.
In the past the meetings have usually consisted of addresses by noted engineers, but this year such addresses will be supplemented by student papers on various engineering phases. The better of these student addresses will be awarded by suitable medals.
The complete slate of officers for the year includes: Jerome J. Cushing, president; Patrick J. Lynch, vicepresident; Albert A. Vitter, secretary; Francis M. Joyce, jr.
The Scholastic
ANOTHER VICTORY MARCH
I	-	’
There are many stories of success, most of them beginning in modest obscurity and ending in material glory. This one is a bit different:
In 1924 Eddie Collins came to Notre Dame, inconspicuous in the shadow then cast by his brother "‘Chuck,” end on the Four Horsemen team. This younger - brother handicap is a tangible thing in school athletics. But Eddie overcame mental and physical obstacles to win the coveted monogram in 1928.
In Febraury of 1930 Eddie accepted an opportunity to help Jimmy Phelan coach at the U. of Washington. The following September his health broke, and a coaching career was replaced by an address in Tucson. For four years he has stayed in Arizona, striving to draw from its peculiar qualities the restoration of the youth and the vitality that were his at Notre Dame.
Never has there been, in the gratifying regularity of his correspondence with the Alumni Office, a hint of anything but the fire and the will to win that Rock gave to his boys.
■ 'Frequently there" has come a practical suggestion lor a phase of Associa-" tion activity.' With every logical excuse for omitting financial obligations to the Association, Eddie has never failed to send a couple of dollars annually, insisting on this gesture for the ALUMNUS, which, in his enforced quiescence, mirrors for him the active world of which he was so vital a part. Never has there been an opportunity for a Notre Dame contact in Tucson but Eddie took cheerful advantage of it.
Freshman Class president in ’24; S.A.C. ’24-’26; President of the Chicago Club, ’28-’29; President of the Monogram Club, ’29; a coaching career opening its inviting doors in ’30—
This boy now lies on a hospital bed in Ann Arbor, Michigan, cheerfully, thoughtfully sending a note of the change of address.
Three major operations must be borne, culminating these four long years of virtual exile.
The Scholastic submits the story of Eddie Collins as a story of spiritual success.
| Intercollegiate I Football
:	A comprehensive survey of :
: American football released by : s the Christy Walsh syndicate. =
:	INTERCOLLEGIATE	1
|	FOOTBALL	|
:	contains	E
= • Over 1,000 illustrations. :
: • The names of 10,000 letter- : :	men.	=
: • The scores of every game E :	since 1900.	T
: • The history of each confer- : :	ence.	:
= 0 The history of the leading : = teams.	:
WHETHER vyou’re < a Big«Man«on-the-Campus >. or •not, .you’ll - know this Stetson, is right!:. It’s a rich, darkbrown,thebrim snaps,? and : you can mould the; crown the way you want it. We unreservedly recommend this ■ hat,gentlemen, to your critical attention.
THE STETSON BANTAM
THE STETSON PLAYBOY 0 .	OTHER STETSON'S 56 AND UP
John B. Stetson Company
The most complete Book on Football ever printed.
I GEORGE T. DEMETRIO I :	•	101 Sorin Hall	:
—--------------
Twenty
The Scholastic