
Do you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame? 
Subscribe to 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
You'll find: 

• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment ONLY$30 coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues A YEAR 

• 
what's happening on weekends 

• 
some off-the~wall college humor 



DYES! 
Name: ___ 
Address: ___________ I want a yearlong subscription to Scholastic Magazine. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 15 FOUNDED 1867 FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
COVER STORY 




Drink or Dry 
Is Notre Dame going dry? That seems to be the big question on campus these days, and theansweris anything butclear. The Board of Trustees stated in their last report that they were planning to revisit the issue and the policy has certainly gotten stricter in the last 10 years. But Director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup does not thinkthe future will bring any significant changes . 
................................~page 16 
Chinese Dinosaurs 

Five engineering students headed east over winter breaktodig up the remains of prehistoric creatures. At 
. thesametime, theyraninto culture shock. •.................•.....•••••...page 8 


Look to· the Future 

Notre Dame's freshmen basketball players could be a sign offuture success in the Big East. Though they vary in style, all are impressive performers. .•••........•.•••....•••••••••page14 
FEATURFS•. 

Testing the Planks. •••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••'!••··················4 
by Steve Myers 
Face to Face .............•••.•.....•...........••.......•.....•........•...6 
by Michelle Crouch 
Irish Air Waves ....................................................... 10 
by Theresa M. Hennessey 
On a Ling and a Prayer ................................. !'.......13 
by Mike McAllister 
ThoroughlyModernWillie. ................................... 20 
by Chris Myers 
DEPARTMENTS 

From theEditor ......: .................................................... 2 I..etters......................................................................... 3 CampusWatch.........................................................12 Splinters from the Press Box ................................... 19 OutofBounds..............................................................23 Comics..................................................................... 24 OnOtherCampuses.....................................................25 ComingDistractions........:........................:.................26 W eekinDistortion ....................................................'...27 Final Wo:td...............................................................28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
FR·e M>:1 H 1f .ED fi'oR­
. ' 
Wake Up Call 

It's always interesting to hear the horror stories from students on dry campuses: The guard who knows that a pile of clothing could notpossibly make a laundry bag so square. The university cleaning woman who stumbles upon that stashedbottle of vodka. The RA whoknocksonthedoorafterhearingthatquartcrplinguponaglass. Everytimelhearthese stories from my friends at other schools, I appreciateNotre Dame's unique alcohol policy. Even if it is a little difficult to explain. 
Notre Dame's whole perspective on the boundaries of student behavior is certainly unusual. After all, while the law prohibits underage drinking, Notre Dame implicitly allows it, as long as it's behind closed doors. And while the government demonstrates almost no concern about the nature ofmale-female relations, our university makes them a top priority. 
My friends from home always find it amusing that Notre Dame seems to be more concerned with our chastity than whether or not we break the law. 
But with all the recent talk on coresidentiality and a dry campus, I've found myself reevaluating some of Notre Dame's policies. And they really do make some sense, especially the currentalcohol policy. Why kick students offcampus to drink, encouraging them to get behind the wheel? I'd like to believe that the administration would thinklong andhardbefore implementing such a monumental change. I' dalso like to believethat they would get student input first. 
But seeing the issue on the Mclnemey/Wolsfeld campaign posters last week woke me up to the possibility that maybe the university is considering a dry campus. Scholastic decided to look into it 
Our investigation revealed that whiletheuniversity may notbe happy with someaspects ofthe policy, for the moment it seems here to stay. But only time will tell what the future will bring. 
Foramore thorough look at the currentpolicy, thechanges overtheyears and the outlook for the future, turn to News Editor Michelle Cox's story, "Drink or Dry," on page 16. 
Michelle Crouch 
Editor in Chief 

Cover Photo by Aaron Skalicky 
6~YearsAgo: The First Bengal B·outs 
In 1930, Bengal Bouts began when a bunch of students decided to promote a one-night "smoker" to add some excitement to the otherwise dull South Bend winters. The first bouts took place in the old fieldhouse and netted a profit of $450, which was donated to the Holy Cross missions inIndia. Here's an excerpt from Scholastic's first coverage
of the event · · 

Thirty-six roundsoffast action willbepresentedin the University gymnasium thisevening 
under the auspices of the Students Activities Council. First eliminations were held 
Wednesday afternoon in the boxing room and all ofthe bouts wete hard fought, giving 
evidence ofthefact that some very close and exciting battles will be waged thi.s evening 
... Arragnements have been madefor loud speaker attachments near the spectatorsfrom 
the a public address system which ·was used during the football season. Phonograph 
recordings will be played between the bouts. 

Wecanonlyhopethatthisyear'sfinalstomorrownightwillbeashardfoughtandexciting. 
-MLC 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22,.1996 


Rape ::f:. Rom.ance in Valentines Day Videos 
Dear Editor: 

I found the February 8 Scholastic article, "Isn't it Romantic?" to be very disturbing because of Chris Myers' implied theory that films featuring rape are appropriate alternatives to artificially "romantic" Valentine's Day films. The "Sin gin' in the Rain" sequence from AClockworkOrange whichleads to Myers' observation that"musicals always hook women" involves the gang rape of a woman in front ofher husband. Myers also includes the film/ Spit On Your Grave in the list of"altemative date movies" specifically because the lead character is at the mercy of "... inbreeds who spend the better half of the movie raping her." 
I am offended by Myers' proposition that these films are a legitimate "alternative" to "cloying romances" simply because they include rape scenes. Rape has nothing to do with romantic or sexual feelings; itis a brutal act ofviolence. Myers' inclusion of these filmsas"chockfullofthestuffmenlove"showsabasicignoranceofthenatureofrapeaswellafrighteninglackofrespectforwomen, especially in the admonitions asking men to"... assert yourself ... love means never having to say you're sorry." 
Myers has done a grave disservice to readers by suggesting that the ideal way to oppose the false romance of Valentine's Day includes watching films beccause they have rape scenes. There is no need to be "romantic" at this time, but there is also no need to revel in-violence against women to show that one does not wish to be "romantic." 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
-1¦1iifJl-¦l-----------------,-------­
1 ·----·-1 foranother24-hourcomputercluster. "It's
Vesting the :i~=t1!I~:~:;~:a~oo:t:i~
. 
semester and during finals week." 
·Pla 


A look at the feasibility offour ofMiller and Murray's campaign promises 
BY STEVE MYERSF ree football tickets! On-campus cigarette sales! Each year, it seems that candidates for student body president and vice president run on platformsconsistingofgoodideas thatnever materialize. Will next year be a repeat perfonnance? Newly elected president and vice presi­dent Seth Miller and Megan Murray listed 15 main points in their platform. Will these ideas go the way of the Grateful Dead concert? Scholastic has looked into the feasibility and current status of four of Miller and Murray's ideas. 
NORTH QUAD ATM. This was a popu­lar plank in many candidates' platfonns, withpossiblelocationsrangingfromNorth Dining Hall to Grace. Few doubt the con­venience of another campus A TM, b_ut its practicality is questionable. · 
According ·to Barbara Nichols, branch manager of Key Bank, the university is looking into the JACC as a possible loca­tion. But don't expect another machine anytime soon. ''With all the renovations going on, it's not a possibility right now," she says. ''Wait 'till things settle down a little." 
Even if the idea is approved, though, some students thinkanother ATMis unnec­essary. Junior Kerry Keane says, "ANorth Quad A TM wouldbemore convenient, but with everyone moving from Flanner and Grace, I don't think it is really necessary." 
FOOTBALL TICKET EXCHANGE. 
Last fall, student government worked with the athletic department to allow students to exchange their student football tickets and $15 for general admission tickets. Three-hundredticketswereallottedforeachgame, ai"i.d only the USC and Texas games ex­hausted this supply. 
Says Student Body President Jonathan Patrick, "It's more work for the ticket of­fice, but less for Student Affairs. It allows students to work within their rights of the tickets." He adds that student government needs to support the idea and continue to 

Both Villaruz and Rapagnani point out that the Office of Information Technology already operates four 24-hour computer clusters: DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick, Math 
Building and Nieuwland. 
DEBIT CARD'. Imagine bypassing the change machine at the laundry and just inserting your student ID into the washing machine. Lastyear,acommittee wasfonned to look into extended uses ofthe studentID. The same ID that now works in the dining hall could eventually be used in token dis­pensers, change machines, vending ma­chines, laundry machines, copiers, parking gates, and also function as a Detex and a ticket for concerts and sporting events. 
As it stands right now, the university plans to issue new studentIDs in the spring of 1997 and then over time increase pos­sible uses of the ID. 
''A North QuadATM would be more convenient, but I don't think it is really necessary. " 
work with the athletic department if the ticket exchange is to continu~. Miller and . 

-Murray have pledged to continue the ex­change next fall. Perry Baert, athletic ticket manager, met with Bill Kirk yesterdayto decide thefateof the ticket exchange for next fall; results of the meeting have yet to be released. 
COMPUTER RESOURCES. Another issue raised by Miller and Murray is the availability of computer resources, espe­cially 24-hour clusters. Larry Rapagnani, provost of infonnation technologies, ex­pressessupportformorecomputerresources if that is what the students want "I think anything is feasible. It's a matter of align­ing resources to what the students want," he says. 
As far as 24-hour access goes, one prob­lem is finding students to staff another cluster. Senior Aaron Villaruz, who works at the DeBartolo cluster, says they occa­sionally haveproblems staffing DeBartolo, and that could be a problem at another lab. 
Another question is whether there a need Sophomore Brendan Kelly ,studentcom­

missioner of campus improvements, says 
the university will decide what company to 
use for. the new debit cards on Friday. 
"AT&T is the frontrunner," he says. 
Patrick points out thatthe debit card is on 

its way; regardless of involvement by the 
incoming student government "My im­
pression ofitis that it's no longernecessary 
for students to press this area because the 
university has . embraced it and has been 
working on it'for awhile," he notes. 
Of these four ideas, Murray and Miller 

will probably succeed in continuing work 
on the debit card and the football ticket 
exchange. As for the ATM, the university 
seems to have other things on its mind, and 
its practicality· is still questionable. In­
creased computer facilities is an idea that 
must be researched more this year to deter­
mine feasibility and necessity. · · As for Miller and Murray's other ideas,· 
they too must be further researched. Only 
tll!1e will tell ifthey will go the way offree 
football tickets. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
EVER WONDER ROW THE GIPP GOT BIS START? 

Scholastic is now accepting applications for the following paid '96 -'97 . positions: 
Managing Editor . 
· · Executive Editor News Editor Camp~s Life Editor Sports Editor Entertainment Editor · Departments Editor . Photography Editor Copy Editor Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Advertising Manager Business Manager Distribution Manager Layout Manager Photographers 
FINAL DEADLINE: · TOMORROW: FRIDAY, FEB. 23 
Interested applicants can pick up an application in the Scholastic Office, 303 LaFortune Questions? Call Michelle Crouch, 1-5029 or 4-1533 

Notre Dame students will be among the first in the nation to meet recruiters through fiber optic technology. The university recently purchased the lnterVIEW system, a visual computer designed specifi­cally for face-to­face interview­ing. It is already being touted as the recruiter's dream. 


BY M:rCHEU..E CROUCH s Patricia Gonzalez walked into 
the conference room for herfinal 
interview withProctor&Gamble, she wasn't sure what she was getting into. There was no interviewersittingbehind the desk in the small room. Instead, a large . IBM computer stared vacantly at her from the desktop. 
Gonzalezwas aboutto becomethefourth . Notre Dame student to embark on a new · wave of technology previously depicted 
A

only in science fiction films -the com-puter-generated, face-to-face interview. 
NotreDamerecentlybecameoneofabout 100 American universities to purchase the IntelProSharePersonalConferencingVideo System 2000, or InterVIEW for short A visual computer designed specifically for face-to-face interviewing, InterVIEW is alreadybeingtoutedastherecruiter'sdream. Unlike phone interviews, which many em­ployers criticize as being too impersonal, InterVIEWallowstheinterviewertoevalu­ate students' reactions and composure as 
;::: 
g: 
~ 
co 
a 
C: 
g. 


MBA student Patricia Gonzalez Interviews with Proctor &,Gamble via a computer In the Office of Career and Placement. · 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
"It was a good opportunityfor me to meet w,th the recruiter even though he couldn't·come to campus." 
well as their answers to questions. . ·. . 
"Both parties are able to see each other, to observe their body 
language," explains Paula Cook, assistant director and computer 
consultant at Notre Dame's Career and Placement· "A iarge part 
ofan interview is theone-on-oneinteractionandthefit between the 
candidate and the company. It's much easier to assess that if you 
can see the person, since communication is often non~vexbal." 
Gonzalez,asecond-year MBAstudent,hadafewminutesbefore 
the interview to getused Ip the technology. She sat at the desk and 
adjusted the small eye-like camera oii top of the monitor so.that it 
focused on her. Then she used the mouse to open up the program. 
The resulting screen had one large box, where the interviewer's 
image would be, and a small box in the comer, in which Gonzalez 
could see herself. · 
"I had never heard ofthe system before, and sinceI was only the 
fourth student to use it, I didn't know what to expec~" says 
Gonzalez. · · 

Gonzalez was interviewing with Scott·Rashib, a high~level 
manager in the international diyision ofProctor & Gamble. Itwas 
Rashib' s third time interviewing on.:screen. "Myfirst impression . 
was thatI didn' tlikemypicture on thescreen," hesays. "Butoverall 
itis much betterthan aphoneinterview. It's areal advantage to see 
the candidate face-to-face." · .. 
Cookestimates thatmorethan 300companiesin theU.S. already have the capacity to use InterVIEW. "Most major corporations, especiallythoseintheFortune500,alreadyhavevideo-conferencing technology," she points out ''They can use this technology to run the InterVIEWprogram." 
ButasRashibbegins asking Gonzalez somewarm-up questions, it is evident that the technology is not yetperfected. Sound and image are not always in harmony, giving the picture an almost comicalslow-motion effect "Sometimes it'sdifficultqecauseyou will hear what he is saying, bµt he isn't moving his lips," notes Gonzalez. And ifone ofthe speakers gets too close to or too far from the microphone, oommumcation is hindered. . . 
Despite these drawbacks; Rashib says he likes the program becauseit allows him to see the students, even ifit isthrough the computer. ''We're trying to demonstrate that despite being a very large corporation, you're notgoing to belost in the pack," he says. The program is currently used mostly by larger companies who already have the technology. As the program becomes. more widespread.J10wever,smallercompanieswillincreasinglybenefit 
Students are ~dy benefiting from this expansionto the traditional job search. "i liked it very much," says Gonzalez. "It was a good opportunityfor me to meetwith [Rashib] even though he colJldn't come to campus/' · · · · 
Those people mterested• in having a similar experience can obtainalistofthecompanieswhousetheprogramfromCareerand Placement · · . 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ F.EBRUARY 22, 1996 
7 






Dinosaurs, Chopsticks and Squid Egg Soup 
A Christmas. trip allowed five students to dig up dinosaur bones while 
. . 
experiencing many aspects ofChinese culture 
LIKE A ROCK. Jade Roblno, Patty Foglesong, HIiiary Rigby, Mike Jarvis, Mike MacWllliams and Ted Pagano explore the Stone Forest. 

BY BRIDGET BRADBURNFor most students, ordering Chicken Lo-Mein and renting Jurassic Park would be a great way to spend a December night with some friends. But one group of Notre Dame students wanted a more thorough experience than fast food and a TV screen could offer. They wanted to taste eel and pig intestines in a town that had never seen Americans befo~. They wanted to have hands-on history and geology les-· sons. And they wanted to see the world through their own eyes,ratherthan on the television screenin their living rooms. Over the past winter break, five engineering stu­dents and geology professor Keith Rigby traveled to southern China to spend three weeks digging up dinosaur bones and experiencing Chinese culture. "Normally, we would do research," says Rigby. "But this last time was a little bit different We were in the Yunnan Province, and not many Westerners had seen this area. It was spectacular ... We were in apartofChinathatwasnowherenearthetouristpath. There were complete articulated dinosaur skeletons in the ground." ''The geology was very complex. They've had a lot of earthquakes," addsjuniorJohn Rzeszut, one of the students who went on the trip. "We found 

dinosaur specimens from dino­saurs that lived in the Jurassic period and glued them back to­gether." These specimens were then put into the Bejing Museum of Natural History. 
Rigby's involvement in the ge­ology of China began when he traveled to China in the early 90s to investigate dinosaurextinction there.."I was intrigued by what I saw," says Rigby, who directs a dinosaur reasearch team called Earthwatch. Membersoftheteam accompanied Rigby on his next trip to China. 
StudentshavejoinedRigby and the Earthwatch group on the last three expeditions. And for the 

past two years, the Engineering School has subsi­
dized about half of the trip. 
"It was a chance of a lifetime," says junior Patty 
Foglesong. 
Her sentiment is echoed by junior Ted Pagano: 
''When are you going to get another chance to study 
geologyinChina? Itwas arelatively unexplored area 
in a third world country." 
The group did the digging in a small town called 
Yemen. ''They had never seen white people before. 
It took a while to get used to the staring," remembers 
Rzeszut 

Butforthestudentswhomadethetrip,thebestpart 
was being around the people and observing all the 
different aspects of their culture. "We also saw 
women whose feet had been balmedand walked with 
crutches," remembers Foglesong. 
"[The Chinese] were so friendly and 
accomodating," continuesRzeszut ''They spoke no 
English except for the word 'Hello.' Whenever we 
would meet people they would just keep saying 
'Hello' over and over again." 
"We would walk around the little towns, and 
people would crowd around us," says Foglesong. 
"But we would communicate without using words. 
One little girl followed me through a park and then 
gave me flowers." 
Despite the language barrier arid instances of cul­
ture shock, the Notre Dame students received royal 
treatment during their visit. "We were honored 
guests of the Provincial Goverment of the People's 
Republic of China," says Rzeszut "We ate dinner 
with thecultural ministers, who got all dressed up and 
shook our hands. Meanwhile, we were all grungy in 
our boots, jeans and flannels. It was definitely a 
political as well as a scientific trip." 
And it was also a cultural trip. "Itwas not all work and no play, although it was relatively intense on the field," says Rigby. Because of the travel problems _· Rigby has run into in the past, he allows two days at the beginning and end of the trip. This year, these days were spent visiting Beijing, the Great Wall of China, the Forbidin City, the Ming Tombs and Tiananmen Square . .In thepast, groups have used the · time to see other attractions, like chop stick factories and the factory whe~e Eddie Bauer goose down 
jackets are stuffed. . 
8 


This year's group stayed in the small town of Yuxi, in a hotel which also housed the Communist Patty Headquarters. "You definitely go over with some stereotypes," Rzeszut says. "Last year they had no run­ning water and no toilets. There were just. holes in the ground. But we got lucky. We stayed in a different hotel. It was very impressive-we were not roughing it" 
But Pagano still missed the amenities of home. "By the time I got back, I was ready to be back," )le says. "I missed the things you take for granted, like listening to the radio and going to Pizza Hut" 
But despite the lack of pizza, these stu­dents did not go hungry while they were in China. "It was incredible food," says Rzeszut ''The squid egg soup was not good, buteverything else was. They fed us like kings." 
Of course, it was often only after the meals that these students found out they had sampled eel, pig intestines and fish bladder, among other dishes. 

According to Kirby, these adventures are what the trip is all about "At a university that is interested in creating a whole-person response to world events, this trip is an eye­opening experience for all who go," he says. "Especially for Science and Engi­neeringpeople, this is a great opportunity to experience a culture that they would not otherwise see in their curriculum." 
In addition to the $2500 that each student pays for the trip, those who are interested must have taken some basic geology. Stu­dents do not get academic credit for the trip itself, but are required to keep a journal of their experiences, and they are also ex­pected to. do an undergraduate research project or directed reading on the subject after they return. 
Kirby notes the enthusiasm ofthose who went "All of the students who have gone have come back with the uniform response of what an incredible experience it was," he says. 
Rzeszut can certainly attest to that "It was the best trip of my life ... I had a non­stop smile on my face. I wouldn't change a single thing;" . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
9 


FIRING QUESTIONS. Assistant Producer Mike Schmledeler 
Interviews the subjectof one of the Today's Life Cholce_s 
programs.­

AfterspenclingalongaftemooninJensen'shome,In its eighth BYTliEREsAM.lIENNEssEY both-the writers and the crew heard some veryWhen Mike Schmiedeler first· en-disturbing infonnation. "Seeing this woman andSeason, tered the home of Cheryl, Ditt-listeiiiilgtoherspeakwasareal wake-upcallforme," 'TI d , Lifi merJensen,hewasnervous. Themedia saidSchmiedeler. "Itmademerealizethatthiskind O ay S e had burned this woman already, and Schmiedeler;s ofthingdoesn'tjusthappenin Cabrini Green or NewChoices is crew was determined not to let it happen again. . York Ci.ty.. Itcan even happen in the small town of 
Everyone present was aware of . :· Davenport, Iowa." 
funded by the ,the sensitivity of the issue, but Notevery story on Today's·u. · ··ty ,-r they knew that there would be Life Choices, the weekly tele­nzversz OJ no way to completely avoid the vision series on PBS, is as dis-Notre Dame pain. turbing as this one. But each Once again, Jensen poured episodeismeanttopresenttheand explores her heart out to the media~ She viewer with some eye-open­·. a variety 0 -r toldthetragics_toryofthed~th ing infonnation. With topics 'J · of her daughter, and remamed as diverse as genetic engineer-
issues relatively strongwhilerelaying ing and the future of athletics the gruesome details. The day in America, the series tries to before her senior year of high give viewers a sense of some school, Michelle Jensen was criticalissuesofthetime. First gang raped and brutally murdered. The horrible· developed in 1988, Today' sLife Choices is distrib­incidentshouldneverhavehappened,and~.Jensen utedon more than 65PBS stations across the country, was detennined to let other parents know how_ to and is fqnded and produced by the University of preventi.hesamethingfromdestroyingtheirchildren . Notre Dame.-. · . as well. · · . ''We choose topics forourshow that will hopefully 
10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

educate people on a subject enough to get them interested and involved," says SeniorProducerMikeDoyle. "We believe that we have the ability to present these topics iri a better way than you might see them on the evening news. We're after more of a sound comment than a sound byte." 
Each 30-minute documentary is produced on location through­out the Uni~ States and overseas, and its format allows for in­depth coverage of whatever the particular weekly topic may be. "We try to capture personal stories andinterview leading experts for each show that we do," says Schmiedeler, assistant producer. "We have ap. educational mission, but we want to do it in an interesting way." 
And keeping the show interestingis de~tely a major concern. A IO-person committee consisting offaculty members, university administrators and employees ofboth WNDU and Golden Dome Productions work together to generate ideas and to keep things fresh. Once a year, they attend a day-long retreat to help them prepare for the upcoming season. And although the series is not a religious one, it does look at issues from both an ethical and a Christian standpoint. "Asawriterfor this show,Ireally believe that we have a lot of opportunities to delve into a subject and examine it thoroughly," says Karen Heisler. "Not only do we get to look at blackandwhiteissues, butwecanexploreall the grey·onesas well." 
In its eighth season of programming, Today's Life Choices is a three-time New York International Film and Television Festival winner, and has received a silver medal from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. It is distinctions such as these that make the series stand out. 

AWESOME, BABY. As Assistant Producer of Today's Life Choices, Mike Schmiedeler has traveled across the nation and Interviewed celebrities such as sportscaster Dick Vitale. 
In addition to its strong content, Today' sLife Choices has a great trackrecordforrecruitingguests. VicePresidentAl Gore, Olympic gold medalist Bonnie Blair, actor and activist Martin Sheen, U.S. Labor SecretaryRobertReich and South AfncanPresidentNelson Mandela have all appeared on the show. Part of this is due to the reputation of Notre Dame. "When we go out and try to select guests, we, have such great luck because we are associated with suchareputable university," says Doyle. ''People are more willing to take an interest in working with our show because of the Notre Dame name." D 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
'.::r;f:T-;:??'''··i:r.:-:I}?:t~ff!f7?'?:-??u·o.·:·~:;~ 
' 
,, 


...AND BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
11 



gipper.1@nd.edu 



Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo 

Dodge ball, which everyone thoughtwas just kind offun and games, turned out to be the one event or the oneforce that derailed an entire generation. -ArtJones, creator of short film Dodge 
. Ball 
BUT IS IT ART?
The Gipp was innocently searching throughhisoffice mailbox the other daywhenhestumbleduponarather startling piece ofmail. In theGipp'shands lay two items: a 3x 5 close-up of a male's genitalia and a letter of complaint from a shockedandbewilderedfemaleDomerwho was unlucky enough to have found the former item. Apparently, this woman was in 115Crowley Hall and spotted the reveal­ingphotooria bulletiri boardamongstmany photos ofthe Glee Club. Further investiga­tion revealed that the "Qwner" of the male appendage is not a Glee Club member, although the person who proudly displayed the picture is. Funny, Glee Club members generally seem tobe the kind of guys you'd wanttointroducetoyourparents. You'dlet them date your sister. You'd want them in public office. Maybe this explains why women have not spoken to the Gipp after he sent them Glee Club singing Valentines. Then again, maybe that's why the Gipp's mom was so interested in seeing the Glee Club perform at JPW. 
DOWN AND OUT AT NOTRE DAME 
Well, Zarzaur and Mahan didn't win the election, so the topic ofgreens fees are still up in the air. That really doesn't matter much, though, becausethefutureofthenew golf course is also up in the air. One ofthe few definites in the whole situation is that golf pro Ben Crenshaw has been hired to design the new course. The rumor isthat the new course will be built on the tailgating property kitty-corner to Stepan Center. 
However, several problems exist, includ­ing the fact that the new course would run into the Oakdale Estate. The stately house on this property was donated to Notre Dame and now serves many uses, including a home-away-from-homeforFr.Beauchamp, whofrequentlyspendsthenighttherewhen he needs to getawayfromAlumniHall. He also uses it to entertain groups of students living in Alumni for dinner from time to time. Havingaposhhouseatone'sdisposal is very appealing, but, as you may or may not know, Fr. Beauchamp is quite an avid golfer. St Peter had no idea of the pickles his priests would find themselves in: "Should I play one of the most elitist sports in existence? No,IthinkI'llspendthenight in a beautiful house." Gotta' love the oath of poverty. 
" ... AND BRING 80,000 OF YOUR CLOSEST FRIENDS." 
The Gipp is pretty sure most of you remember that the Chicago Bears almost moved to Gary, Ind., a few weeks ago. The deal fell through and the Bears remain in Chicago, due largelyin parttoa threat made by Mayor Richard Daley. He allegedly told Mike McCaskey, the owner of the Bears, that if he signed an agreement to niove the franchise out of Chicago any time in the near future, he would kick Bears out of Soldier Stadium immediately, thus leaving the Bears with no place to play until a new stadium was built Ah, politics. 
Manyofyoumaybewonderingwhatthis has to do with Notre Dame. Well, appar­entlyaninfluentialmemberofNotreDame's Board of Trustees also sits on the board of directors for the Chicago Bears. Rumor has it that this person offered McCaskey full use of the up-and-coming 80,000 seat sta­dium here at Notre Dame. (Sundays only, of course.) Whether you are ~ fan of the Bears or not, that would be one heck of a tailgating weekend. Ofcourse, we students wouldn 'tknow, would we? Luckily for us, it wouldn't be much of an adjustment to see spoiled, overpaid players who havent't graduated from college bounding around the field while the students do shots in the stands. 

STAND UP FOR YOURSELF (UNLESS YOU'RE ME) 

As much as the Gipp likes to make a mockery of campus, he will be the first to admit that JPW was probably the inost memorable event for many Notre Dame parents. Sure, the alcohol is watered down and there are some intolerable speeches to suffer through in between Monk's and Lou's, but for the most part, JPW is gener­ally agreed to be an enjoyable event A person in Tuesday's Observer disagreed, however, calling the whole weekend pro­
. paganda which "masks real identity of ND life." The Gipp would love to respect the author's opinion, but he can'tfor the mere fact that theauthor ,Miguel Sanchez, doesn't exist The author wrote on and on, criticiz­ing Notre Dame for hiding behind false propaganda and "shallow, pop-psychology­go-get-them1' speeches, yet he decided to use a false name. The Gipp thinks he'll quote this disgruntled student to express his -own thoughts: ''The hypocrisy of the entire event is disgusting." Now, the Gipp loves to see students experimenting with the joys of anonymity, but Mr. Sanchez shouldreal­ize that not revealing oneself is cowardly and immature. Unless, ofcourse, you have a weekly column in a well-respected maga­zine. 
Sothat'sitfornow,kids. Aridremember during the coming week to support all those failed presidential candidates who are now running on the same platforms for class officers and quad senators. ;Hell, ifthe Gipp had_ a bunch of leftover posters and some time on hishands,he' ddo the same thing.. 
12 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 


-' ' 



OnaLing and a Prayer 
'· 

Hockey star Jamie Ling's career at Notre Dame ended unexpectedly last week,·but his legacy remains 
BY MIKE McALLISTER
A.
s one of the highest-scoring play­
ers in Notre Dame hockey, Jamie · Ling' s place in history is secure. Three weeks ago, he notched his 50th ca­reer goal, skating by the bench to high-five enthusiastic teammates. He led the Irish in scoring his first three seasons, and, despite his recent injury, willprobably do the same for an unprecedented fourth consecutive season. 
Ling came to Notre Dame from Prince Edward's Island, Canada, because he saw a great opportunity to be part of a new tradi­tion. "I was going to be a part of the team as itwent to thenext level," saysLing. '_'I think we're starting to go to that next level and eventually we'll become one of the top teams year in ~d year out" 

In his four years,. team success has been difficult to attain for Ling. This is especially true this season, which has seen the team fall short despite strong HOT STREAK. With 12 goals on the season, Ling has 
play. "We've played well, become the 26th player In Notre Dame history to score 
we just haven't gotten the more than 50 career goals. 
results we would like," says Ling. This season, nonetheless, still has potential for improvement Heregretsnothavingmade the CCHA playoffs in any of his three seasons, but remains optimistic that March will bring a post~season berth. 
And beyond this season, the star center believes that Notre Dame.·is not too far from hockey's proinised land. "The uni­versity has made a commitment by hiring Coach Poulin and joining the league our freshman year," Ling says. "It's not long 
before this team will be one of the top ones around." 
Thepremierplaymaker,Ling. believes his best skills on the ice lie in his passing game. "I've always liked to pass and make plays," he says, explaining that hockey,likeanyotherteamsport, is not an individual game. "It's important to use the other play­ers and not to try to do every­thing yourself." 
Ling' s best memories of play­ingforNotreDamearerelatedto his camaraderie.with the other players. "We've had a good bunch of guys all four years that I've been 

here/' 

Away from the ice rink, Ling is usually hanging out with friends, but finding this time is a difficult task. "It's hard to manage my time," he says. Unfortunately, Ling will probably find his schedule a little looser, after he broke his ankle in the final minutes oflastweekend'slosstoMichiganandended his season with four games remaining. 
Although disappointed, the injury is not deterringhimfrom looking to thefuture. "I'd liketoplayprofessionalhockeyaftedgradu-­ate,"hestates. Ifheisn'tfortunateenoughto reach his goal, the psychology major will probably stay in school to pursue a master's degr~. . 
NewlrishHeadCoachDavePoulinpraises his popular center. "I heard a lot about his offensive ability," beams Poulin, "but this season Jamie has worked hard to become a more complete player." He also saysLingis a very intelligent person who can do just about anything he wants. Ling came off the ice last weekend in his final collegiate game disappointed. Looking back on his career, however, brings nothing but a smile to any hockey fan's face. 0 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E •.FEBRUARY 2 2, l 9 9 6 
13 



Looking to the Future 
.Notre Dame'sfres'1,man class seeks to lead the basketball team to success 
currentleadersarealsoquicktoendorsethis build [a successful program] orto go some­BY DEREK BETCHER year'snewrecruits. "It'sarealgoodclass," place where it's already built I'll tell you it's better to create [it]." 
Doug .Gottli.·e.b catches· the outle.t offers team captainRyanHoover. "They're i ! : pass and runs. He kno.ws he can all going to be good once they make the Gottlieb's comments about rekindling a rely on a trailing Gary Bell to adjustments." winning tradition at Notre Dame are em­finish. Confident, Gottlieblooks to hisright · MacLeod recognizes that there is a pe­phatically echoed by each ofhis classmates. fprastreaking AntoniWyche andsuddenly riod of adjustment "Well, freshmen will be "Sometimes you got to take somerisks, like flips the ball directly to Phil Hickey under · freshmen. The adjustments·they have to going to a school where you canbe a part of the basket for an impressively easy deuce. make, not just the basketball ones, are in­making something," confinns Wyche.

I';!'.'
, I These players are the future ofNotre Dame credible. We do have high expectations for Luring east coast talent like Wyche is an
'1i:', 
basketball. And though it;s tooeariy to tell, them, but so far they're doing very well.(' exampleofwhatMacLeodhopesto accom­they couldsignal thelong-awaitedreturn of The group's performance has been im~ plish with Big East membership; Wyche \I the Fighting Irish to hard court respectabil­pressive sofar this year. Hickey has logged grewuponLonglsland,playinghigh school ity. They could even be the future image of substantial minutes in the low. post and ballin upstateBallstonLake,NY. For him,
ii Irish domination in BigEastbasketball. A looks to be the big body of the future for 
f look at Notre Dame's basketball class of MacLeod, and Wyche saw considerable 1999 shows that Coach, John MacLeod has action at the beginning of the season while "I'm used to four solid.reasons to hope for. success: filling in at small forward for the injured . Gottlieb, who has emerged as MacLeod's Derek Manner. With Manner's return, winning. I came purest point guard; Hickey, whose size Wyche returned to his more natural posi­makeshim themostlegitimatecenteron the tion ofshooting guard, aposition presently here to step in and Irish squad; and Bell and Wyche, who both occupied by Hoover. Bell, considered by · display impressive athleticism. most analysts to beMacLeod's starrecruit, be the man." "Ilike all of these guys. Theyjusthave to has been hamperedby back surgeryand has settle ~own," says MacLeod. The team's just recently started to dress for games. 

-GaryBell 

Gottlieb's steady play at point guard and 
. progression .into the starting line-up has been among the group's most pleasant sur-thelureofBigEastconferencemembership prises. was undeniably a factor in his decision to 
The desire for significant playing time commit "I think this is the top conference wasonlyoneofthefactors thatluredGottlieb in the whole country. We're in with the top from sunnyOrangeCounty,Calif., toSouth players, we've gotincredibleexposure,and Bend. "Weatherdoesn'tmatter. Youcome I'm glad my parents will have the chance to to school for two things: to play ball and to see me play," he explains. getan education," Gottlieb explains. "Ican Back-up Wyche and starter Hoover have do that here,·and llike Coach MacLeod a playing styles which are as different as lot He was a big part of my decision to night and day. "Hoover is a pure shooter, commit" Antoni is a driver and a slasher whose 
Consistent with the characteristic point outside shot will develop from that," guard mentality, Gottlieb has bigger ambi­MacLeod explains. Wyche agrees that tions for the team than for himself. "I've penetration is a big part of his game. "I can never been on a losing team; I don't like create my shot, but right now being behind losing. You wonder whether it's better to Hoover, I'm picking up on a lot of subtle 

14 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • FEBRUARY 2 2, 1 9 9 6 


things in his game that I need to learn." 
The athleticism-that Bell brings to the court is similar to Wyche's. Back surgery in June to repair a herniated disk has kept Bell off the floor and out of the spotlight, however. "Right after surgery, I couldn't even walk for a month. It has really been a letdown, because I've had such high ambi­tions. I know I can help this team where it needs it," Bell says. 
He continues, "I'm used to winning. I came here to step in and be the man. I definitely see a lot of Gottlieb to Bell in the future. I definitely see a Big East champi­onship in the future too. The team'11 shine, and I'll shine too, but I might have to wait _ until next year." 
In Bell's absence, MacLeod has been getting the most out of his remaining re­cruits, playing them in critical junctures of crucial games. MacLeod voices particular enthusiasm about Hickey. "He has unlim­ited potential. He's a willing worker. I see Phil getting better and better. He's been losing baby fat and he's much stronger and . quicker_ than he was in September,,,says MacLeod. 
Hickey interjects, 'There's not one of us who hasn't improved. Every time out, we learn something new. · Just watching the older players is a learning experience, but we've even had the unique opportunity to play, which is great because practices can't teach you everything." 
On his much-publicized fear of flying, Hickey insists that he has the situation un­der control. He cites his recent flight to the Manhattan game in early February asproof. "It shouldn't matter how I get there; all that shouldcountishowlplay,"Hickeyasserts. 
, While the variety of personalities of the basketball classin 1999 is often cited as one_ of its stronger attributes, some negative generalizations have been made. An oft­repeated criticism has been that this class shoots poorly from both the field and the free throw line. Team insiders label these 
·weaknessesastemporaryandconsiderthem side effects ofthe difficult jump from high school to college. 
MacLeod admits, "All of our freshmen. are struggling from the free throw line. It's frustratingformeandforthem." ButHoover adds, "It's all about confidence. Once you find out that you belong at the college level, ltisdifferentfrom high school... it's funny, the Big East should take caution. If any­though, because these guys make their shots thing, the quartet's unbridled ambition will all ofthe time in practice," admits Hoover, ·play a key role in conference battles for Notre Dame's most efficient free-throw years to come. As Wyche observes, 'The shooter. confidence is coming. We just need to play 
The adjustment seems to be forthcom­together. The last couple of games this year ing; the only significant question to askmay I expect us to start clicking, to show people be how soon. With their experience grow­our potential and to show what everyone ing daily and with a recovering Gary Bell, can expect about us in the future." . 

you'll enjoy it more, you'll play more ag-RISING TO THE OCCASION. Phll Hickey goes up to defend a shot against Pitt. He has gressively, and your shots will start falling. made his way Into the starting line-up through his dedicated work ethic. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 22, 1996. 15 


BEER RUN. Only 21-year-old students may transport alcohol onto campus, and only as much as one student 
can drink. 
BY J. MICHELLE CoxFast, low bass thumps through the hallway, the sound of laughter drifts outof the door and the smell of beer wafts throughout the section; It's Friday night, and dorm parties like this one are underway all over campus. All behind closed doors. Made possible by the university's unique alcohol policy, this scene has become the foundation of student social life at Notre Dame. Butrecently somepeople havebeen questioning the future of this kind of activ­ity. Struck by campaign posters promising to keep the campus wet, students have be­gun to wonder ifthere is a looming threat to theiron-campusparty scene. IsNotreDame going dry? 
platformduringstudentbodyelections,says that he is under the impression that big changes might be coming soon. "We heard that there was a proposal in the works to severely revamp the alcohol policy." 
Indeed, the Board of Trustees decided last October to revisit the issue of respon­sible alcohol use on campus. 
As student government director of Du Lac revisions, Maclnemey says, "We wanted to inform the student body, gather · student support and confront the aclminis­tration in a proactivemanner on this issue. The recent trend has been one of increas­ingly strict alcohol policies." And there may be some bas.is for the 
perception that Notre Dame's al­cohol policy is becoming more strict Over the past 20 years, in fact, there has been what Shoup calls 
a "slow tightening" of the

DIIBl, IIIIJ Bord OI Tl'IIBIBIIB decided policyandthewayinwhich 
it is enforced. "I certainly 

last lk:llillJr to revilil lhlJ iBIJIJC DI 
don't see the policy loos­

,,,,.,,,,,,__,,,,IIBB OIi t:allfA ening lip," says Shoup. 
Not according to Director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup. "I haven't heard that anything like that is in the works. I just don'tperceivethatanysignificantchangeis coming in the near future regarding the alcohol policy," he says. "But every year around this time I get wind ofa rumor going around the student body,to that effect" 
Junior Ryan Mcinerney, who included the issue ofkeeping the campus wet on his Over time, the uni­
versity' s stance on alcohol has definitely 
shifted. During most of the sixties, no 
alcoholwaspermittedoncampus. Through 
the seventies, however, there were almost 
no restrictions on student drinking. · 

The 1975-76edition ofDuLac states that ''Theuse of alcoholic beverages in modera­tion is accepted at this university." A brief . list of rules and regulations highlights the fact that alcohol may be consumed in pri­
vate rooms and other dorm areas. An explanatory paragraph reads, ''The univer­sity community cannot tolerate abuses po­tentially harmful to its members." 
While this general ideology seems to have remained fairly constantovertheyears, the list ofspecific rules and regulations has grown. Twenty years ago thealcoholpolicy was only four paragraphs. long. In this year's edition ofDu Lac, the.alcohol policy includes seven pages of thou-shalt-nots. 
Theopeningparagraph now states,"Mod­erate use of alcohol in limited situations is tolerated," but "intoxication is prohibited." This more stringent language was adopted in 1984, under the guidance of the Univer­sity Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol. 
In 1988, the guidelines established by 

thatcommitteewere reviewedandmodi­fied by the President's Task Force on Whole Health and Use and Abuse of Alcohol. 'Eight years ago, then, was the last time ·that several major changes were made in the university's alcohol policy. 
The policy as it 

currently stands is made up of 20 sub-

16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

-

dhol policy has ('~ the future ofdrinking 
headings which detail specific no-nos, in­cludingtheprohibition ofkegs, punch, grain alcohol and jello shots. The policy in Du Lac also includes the clause, "The Officers have advised that further restrictions on alcohol use, including the possibility of a complete banning of alcohol, will be neces­
sary if the experience of the immediate futuredemonstratesthattheissuesaddressed by the 1984 and 1988 committees have not been corrected."But this kind of action does notseem desirable to most people around campus. Junior Brian McKernan, for one, likes the alcohol policy as it is. He says, 'The fact that this is a wet campus is a rare show of responsibility given to stu­dents by the university. Ifthe campus was made dry it would be like the university 


saying they gave us a responsibility we couldn't handle." 
Of course,maybe that's the whole point · And while 
. many administra­tors, staff and stu­dents do not advo­cate drastic change, some do recom­mend that the uni­
{versity take a close 
i/look at both the 
Jpresent policy and 
.. the prevailing atti-

BOTTLES UP. Getting ready or a dorm party usually includes supplying a large amount of beer. According to Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Ufe, Notre Dame's alcohol policy Is a "fine line" between compliance and Indiana State law. 
making some clarifications and changes to linesspecify that students are expected tobe the policy. aware of and comply with the law, yet they 
Sorin Rector Fr. Steve Newton's con-allow for underage drinking, as long as cern, as well as that of many other campus people indulge within the privacy of their community members, is with the people ownrooms. "It'safineline,"assertsShoup. whosedrinkingdoescauseproblems. This "We don't want to be overzealous about istheimpetusbehindSorinHall'snewZero enforcingthelaw,butwealsodon'twantto ToleranceforInebriation/IntoxicationCam-be a haven for law-breakers." paign. Sophomore Patrick Brennan has noticed 
Designed by the hall staff, this plan cen-an acceptance of law breaking. "Underage ters on the idea that drunkenness is "an people bring in 20 cases of beer every unacceptable condition for anyone to be in weekend and the RAs just ignore it," he at anytime." The written plan emphasizes contends. But this may depend on which that ''What the zero tolerance awareness dorm a person is in. Andrea Cox, assistant ·campaign is not is an attempt to prohibit rectorofBreen-Phillips,concedesthatthere alcohol in the dorm." This stand against intoxica-117 1..I ,I £a,J t. & 
tion is consistent with the .,, fllJl'CB111 a, lffl YIJII" I . !arger _pictur~ ~'YCllltJIilvolvcdalcohol.
of. the 

un1vers1ty's policy. Gma Kigar, lllfil.,,,.,llllll. . director of the Office ofDrug and Alcohol is not much consistency in the disciplining Education, sees the policy as one which of alcohol regulations across campus. She allows for drinking, but outlaws drunken-says, "Enforcement of the rules really var­ness. Interestingly, Kigar points out that ies from hall to hall. This can be confusing "NotreDame'spolicyisalmostoppositeof forstudents." thatatSaintMary's, where all drinking and Itisthiskindofmixed-messagethatmost alcohol are strictly prohibited on campus, concernsKigarandAssistantDirectorKelly yet no one says anything if a student is Landry in the Office of Drug and Alcohol intoxicated." Education. "Insomeareas, thepolicyistoo Addressing Notre Dame's stance, Shoup subjective and vague," believes Kigar.
I 

explains, 'Thepolicysetsupguidelinesfor. Landry agrees that "It needs to be delin­student choices. It's about respect for self eated what responsible drinking amounts and community." to. A definition of intoxication should be 
The finer points of the policy, however, provided. And we need to be consistent in can get tricky when stacked up against the rules and the consequences." 
00 RULES. Each decade, Du act current times. During the 
tudes and consider respect for Indiana state law. The guide-The lack of clarity, Kigar and Landry
ade stricter.
-----'--------------------------------------­
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 


MIX IT UP. This student bartender mixes a screwdriver. Over the years, Du Lac regulations regarding mixed drinks have become more complex. 
think, really sets students up for problems. "People become complacent about alcohol on campus, where the outside laws don't apply, and they develop a false sense of security. Then they gohomeorawayfrom campusandget arrested for underage drink­ing," worries Landry. 
Cox, a 1994 graduate of Saint Mary's, "found it kind of shocking at first that students areallowed to have alcohol evenif they are under 21." Her real concern, though, is the heavy drinking habits on campus. "Alcohol is looked upon very casually here, and people sometimes don't realize how dangerous it can be." 
Landry's biggest concern about alcohol use on campus is also binge drinking. "The frequency and the amount that students drink here is scary," she says. Kigar agrees, asserting, "Both the environment and the policy here encourage and enable abusive drinking." 
Junior Mike Flintosh, though, doesn't see this kind of problem. ''The alcohol policyisfine-it'snotliketheyletbeerjust flow down the hallways or anything." And McKeman agrees, saying "Most drinking is fairly responsible here." ButKigarandLandry spend most of 
their workday with alcohol abus­
ers. They deal with students who have either been referred to them forassess­ment or are concerned about their own drinking. "A lot of the heavy drinkers on campus don't even want to drink so much, but they rationalize it, thinking that getting drunk is the norm," says Kigar. 

She believes, though, that intoxication is notnormal,norisitacceptable. "People get lulledintocomplacency,"suggestsLandry, "becauseitisthehardestpartiersthatarethe loudest Those people who drink moder­ately or not at all don't say much about it" 
Shoup, too, is used to dealing with the hardestandloudestpartiers. Charged with the enforcement of the alcohol policy, the Office of Residence Life is responsible for following up on violations. Shoup reports that 47 percent of last year's 500 disciplin­ary cases involved alcohol. They saw 35 cases that dealt solely with intoxication. Strikingly,accordingtoShoup, lOOpercent tion ofthe alcohol policy. But perhaps that risk is on the decline. "Over the past seven years, I believe that having a designated driver has become something regular that students almost automatically do," says Newton.Anothertrend thatNewtonattests to 
is that he now sees more students 

who actively choose, for what­ever reason, not to drink. Others are also identifying some trends of changing atti­tudes about alcohol. Shoup reports that in recent years he hasn't seen as many prob­lems with drinking games and beer bongs on campus. 
Kigar sees "positive changes in student 
ofrape cases that come ~fore Student Affairs 11"1"1,IM'Jft ••a 1111'11,,u,o ,_ e ~ 11Ut.ndu.1111 of mvolve alcohol. I fffil""(; ffM IIIWil,,1 o IRi II llBJ IJffi IIIJIJIIUfir
I~is,_o~course, ~ch BlllltJn.fl • wf*·• IIIJ matter Wflat.
mdiVIdual'sch01ce when _and h_ow -,ryi,jaslIJIJl lhlJ IJIIIWIJr. u 
much to drink. Kigar and Landry believe this adult choice must come with adult consequences. 
But Mcinerney asserts, "There will al-· waysbealargenumberofstudentswhowill drink no matter what Going dry is just not the answer. Areal benefit of the policy as it stands is that it helps keep students safe. Whataboutsafetyifstudentshadtoventure into South Bend to drink?" 
McKeman thinks that making the cam­pus dry would cause problems. He argues, "More people would move off campus and that would simply cause more worries with security and drinking and driving ·... On campus you can drink and then go to bed­it's a lot safer this way." 
Cox believes that going to a dry campus would be difficult for hall staffs. "Enforc­ing a policy that did not allow any alcohol would be nearly impossible. Atdances, for instance, people have come to anticipate alcohol.Changingthoseexpectationswould be tough, and people would probably still drink-itwouldmakeourjobreally hard," she says. 
Kigar, though, doesn't buy these argu­ments. "Weshouldn'tbeshelteringunder­age drinkers. Ifpeople choose to break the law, they might have to deal with an arrest If people choose to drink and drive, they might have to deal with a death." 
Alcohol-related traffic accidents, in fact, have been a problem at Notre Dame, and in 1987 a series of them sparked the revalua­andadministrativeattitudes." "Morepeople feel comfortable not drinking, and there is less acceptance of intoxication," she says. "I'm glad to see people choosing alterna­tives-forexample it's great that Stanford is sponsoring an alcohol-free dance." 
Along with these attitude changes, the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education would like to see a multi-faceted commit­tee,made up of almost every department of the university and some external groups, takearenewedlookatthealcohol policy. "I believe that Student Affairs is concerned about the state of alcohol use on this cam­pus, there are some improvements thatneed to be made to. the existing policy, and I believe they are planning to really take a look at it," says Kigar. 
BothKigarandMclnerneybelievethatif the university does decide to examine and possiblychangethecurrentalcoholpolicy, students need to. be involved. "Students should be informed of and involved iri any pending changes," asserts Mcinerney. And Kigar believes that "Students shoulq play a key role in alcohol issues. Everyone is adversely affected by abusive drinking­the secondhand affects are many." . 
So while students aredrinking up, maybe they should be thinking up what they see as reasonable measures for Notre Dame's al­cohol policy. And for now, the band plays onand the beer still flows,just not down the hallways. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
,\ t,' ' ' • •::. ..... ' • . .... . , ' 


SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports February 13 to February 20 
edited by Brian Hlro 
Men's Basketball Grabs Women's Basketball Rolls On, Third Big East Win Heads to UConn on Saturday 
. In whatcanonlybeconsideredasuccess­Notre Dame continued to make Big East ful week, the Irish made Pittsburgh their contests look easy with two more convinc­third conference victim of the season and ing victories, 72-56 against Villanova and actuallyledUConn formtich of thefirst half 89-51 in Pittsburgh. beforesuccumbing in Storrs, Conn. The win over the Wildcats, a team that 
· TheinsidegamepoweredNotreDamein had only lost one of its previous sixteen its 77-69 win over the Panthers. PatGarrity games, was significant because it gave the led all scorers with 22 points and nine 13-2 Irish an edge in the race for a first­rebounds, and pivotmen Phil Hickey and roundtournamentbye. BethMorganscored Marcus Young combined for 14 points and 28 to pace Notre Dame. 15 boards as the Irish wore down the visi­Against the Panthers, the Irish set a new tors. team record with 11 three-pointers as five 
Against the Huskies, an early Irish five­players scored in double figures. point lead wilted under UConn' s pressure This weekend the 23rd-ranked Irish will defense. The 85-65 final was identical to make their first-ever national television ap­that of the teams' first meeting in Decem­pearance on ESPN2 against the number­ber. three Huskies. · 
Hockey Suffers Two Defeats, Baseball Drops Two to Tech Ling Suffers Injury Coach Paw Mainieri' s squad opened the 
Irish lossestoCCHAfoesWestemMichi­season on a down note,losing two weekend ganandMichiganlastweekwereovershad­games to Georgia Tech in Atlanta. Bob owed by JamieLing's broken ankle. LisantihadahomerunandRowanRichards 
Notre Dame's leading scorer, Ling in­had three hits to lead the Irish. curred the season-ending injury in Friday's TheIrish will lookfor their first win at the 5-2 loss to the Wolverines. Without Ling, Service Academies Classic in Millington, the Irish will be hard-pressed to make the Tenn., taking on Army, Air Force, Navy playoffs with just four games left and Memphis. 
We Are ND: For all those whose dads told them never to get in a fight, get this: it turns out boxing can be a family affair. Senior Toby Biolchini, a Bengal Bouts contestant, has boxing in his blood as both his father and his brother are past Bouts champions. 
Quote of the Week: "The way I see it, if you're big enough to cut my bait, you're big enough to hit my plate." -Deion Sanders on the catch-and-release approach to fishing. 
Dix's Pick: The women's team attempts to avenge their previous loss to UConn with a strongshowing by Beth Morgan, who has 23 points. The star of the gameiscenter Katryna Gaither who ptills down 10 boards while playing stellar defense. Final score: Irish 74, 
Huskies 71. . . 

Hiro's Hunch: Like the men, the women's basketball team goes into Husky territory as a heavy underdog. And like the men, the reswt is the same. Beth Morgan proves she is ready for prime time with 25, but Kara Wolters mles the inside as UConn wins 83-70. 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ F E B R. U A R Y 2 2 , 1 9 9 6 

From London's West End to Hollywood's West Coast1 The Bard's Words are Still Full of Sound and Fury 
BY AARON NOLAN 

eople who find William Shakespeare dull, boring and out of date are not uncommon. Many high school and college students forced to read Hamlet or Macbeth see ver­bosity at its most boring. Even Murph Swander, founderofACTER (A Center for Theatre Education and Research), admits, "I know Shakespearean actors and direc­tors who believe Shakespeare is boring." However, the fact that the Bard's plays are still performed, produced, taught and dis­cussed over 300 years after they were first written proves that Shakespeare's writing isn't just much ado about nothing. 
The immortality of Shakespeare's work in a society which may deem stories of kings, treachery and star-crossed lovers as stuffy or out-of-date is due mainly to the timelessness ofhis work and his skillful use of language. "Shakespeare's plays are not just about people back in the 16th or 17th century," says English Professor Paul Rathburn. "They're about human experi­enceonaverydeeplevel. So~epartofyour close personal experience is reflected in all of these plays, and that is why they are classics to this day." 

Shakespeare's plays not only reflect something about ourselves, but they also reflect elements of human society in gen­eral. The treachery, passion and love that occur in Shakespeare's work may have been social commentary on Elizabethan society, but they are so fundamental that 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 


hakespeare's themes transcend time period and strike the very root of human action and emotion. 
MASTER THESPIANS. The Actors from the London Stage perform Macbeth on campus this weekend. Back, left to right, Philip Joseph, Gareth Armstrong, Sarah Berger and Joanna Foster. Front, Sam Dale. 



they can carry on intothemodemday. According to Rathburn,. "The tragedies, the com­edies, the historical plays are about poli­tics and war, .about love and loss, and about the price you have to pay under these circum­stances." 
Professor Jac­queline Brogan, who teaches the course Shake­speare and the 20th Century, agrees, "Shakespeare's plays are very rel­evant to people of 
any given culture or era His themes tran­scend timeperiod and strike the very root of human action and emotion." 
It is the themes of Shakespeare's plays that make them timeless, but it's his use of the English language that make them stand out British thespian David Howey notes that when Shakespeare's plays were origi­nally performed, they lacked the lighting, setsandmechanicalsoundpresentintoday's productions. "I twas the actorandthe words and the audience," he says. 
The Actors of the London Stage, who willbeperformingMacbeth oncampus this weekend, believe in this minimalist ap­proach. Their set consists of several chairs, their costumes are anything but elaborate and the cast consists of five actors playing about 33 roles. In one review of the acting troupe, awriter claimedthat,"Itmightall be part of their intention of foregoing the vi­sual. aspects of their art and letting the language speak the whole story. That, of course, is the saving grace ofthis otherwise rather cool approach to theatre." In effect, the actors let'Shakespeare's words work their magic on the audience. 

I t is this very combination of both the ac­tor and the language that have not only helped Shake­speare's works to survivethecenturies, butto continue to be a constant literary and theatrical force. This can be seen in the contemporary stage productions of the his work. Notre Dame has already been treatedto a per­formance ofHamlet earlier this year and 

now looks forward to upcoming perfor­mances of Macbeth and A Midswnmer' s Night Dream, the senior play which is cur­rently in the rehearsal stages. On a broader level, Shakespeare festivals such as the Stratford festivals in England and Canada continue to perform Shakespeare's plays for months on end. . 
-similarly,moviesbasedonShakespeare's plays have been very popular this century. A good one-third of Shakespeare's 37 known plays have been turned into films. Film classics such as Franco Zeffirelli's 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 22, 1996 
adaptation of Romeo and Juliet; Orson Welles' Macbeth and Kenneth Branagh's Henry V have enjoyed acclaim from both audiences and critics alike. Even offshoot adaptations of the Bard's works have been put on film. Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead, aplay-turned­movie focusing on the off-stage banter be­tween the fated friends of Hamlet, is one example, in the good company of Woody Allen'sAMidsummerNight' sSexComedy. 
But doesn't all of this "Hollywood­ization" cheapen theseElizabethan classics a bit? According to Professor Rathburn, whoteachesaclassonShakespeareinfilm,_ it does not "As a rookie professor, I was very stodgy and thought that Shakespeare was first class art and that films, in general, weresecondclassartandthatthetwothings could never go together," he says, admit­ting that when a Shakespeare film gets released, its quality is constantly debated and analyzed. "It'salways an eventwhen a new major Shakespeare film comes out ThosefilmscatchsomethingofShakespeare ... maybe not everything, but they certainly do a good job." 

Regardless ofthe quality of these adapta­tions, one thing is clear: Shakespeare is still a major force, not only in today's literary world, but in society as a whole. The plays he scripted, the actors who swear by his worlc and the people who continue to ad­mire it are an ongoing testament to the Bard himself. 
The Actors ofthe London Stage sold-out performancesofMacbeth start tonight and run through Sunday at Washington Hall. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

S.CHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

BRUNO'S 


111J 



Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. 
**2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 261 OPrairie Ave. • 

273-3890 . 288-3320 
"Al/Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to . Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 





Diamonds ; 
re AChemists 


Bestfriaid 
. 
BY JOEIN rnFRANCA 
. Diamonds Are Forever (And Really Big, Too!) 
What's 11 inches in diameter and as hard as anything? If you said your roommate's head you may be right, but it's not the answei: i was looking for. The answer is a 1,600-carat synthetic diamond made by re­searchers at the University of Florida. The world's largest synthetic diamond, it was created using a process which grows large· gems without the use of high temperatures and pressure. Known as "enhanced chemi­cal vapor deposition," the patented process allowed them to surpass the previous one­inch limit for synthetic diamonds. 
Considering that neither King Kong nor Godzilla has yet found someone willing to accepttheirmarriageproposals,Imustques­tion what use the stone will have. Besides, considering their successful movie careers, bothshouldbeable to affordarealdiamond. 
. Winning Presidential Ticket 
Foronly one dollar, that's right, boys and girls, one doll~. you can be president of a major university.. Sound too good to be true? Sound like the job may not be worth it? Eitherway,IndianaUniversity's Presi­dent ForaDay contest offered students the chance to take control of their school by buying a one dollar raffle ticket. On Valentine'sDay, thestudentswitchedplaces with IU President Myles Brand. The two started the day with breakfast, then the studentattendedmeetings whileBrandfol­lowed his class schedule. They met up again for dinner and the IU men's basket­ball game: 

Too bad for only one dollar the Miller/ Murray ticket couldn't have won Notre Dame's presidency. It would have taken much less time and effort, and they may haveactuallyendedupwithsome·degreeof power. 
. And This Little Piggy Got Burned 
A fire at the University of Wisconsin recently consumed nearly 700 pigs and 20 years ofresearch. It destroyed the Swine Research and Teaching Center, a $1.5 mil­lion facility built in 1984. Experiments on the pigs were used by researchers to im­proveorgantransplantsin humans. Aweek after the blaze was extinguished by fire fighters from four counties, four live and healthy pigs were found among the debris. 
The question which remains is who set thefire. Wasitananimalrightsactivist? A vegetarian? A call for help from some unsatisfiedpig? Whoknows? Inapossibly related story, North Dining Hall has served po:dc and/or hotdogs for four of thelastfive nights. Coincidence? Idon'tthinkso. The truth is out there. 
. Sideshow Bomb 
When the Jim Rose Circus Sideshow came to the University ofFlorida, adminis­trators and students alike had no idea what they were in for. The show featured per­fonners who atelightbulbs andbugs, swal­lowedswords,andeven usedtheirbodiesas dart boards. In addition, there was brief nudity.aviolationofGainesvilleordinances. (One wonders how residents shower.) The show was attended by 900 students 'and financed with studentfees. Many in atten­dance were sickened by the show, and the chairman of the student group which orga­nized the event has said thatin the future it will pay better attention to the acts it pre­sents. Perhaps an elimination ofall groups using theword"sideshow"wouldbeastart. What was he expecting, elephantrides and a petting zoo? D 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N B ·• P B B R U A R Y 2 2 , 1 9 9 6 



G 


: SUNDAY -February 25
THURSDAY -February 22 

• Fencing, Midwestern Fencing Team Championships.
Play, "Macbeth," Washington Hall. 8 p.m. Sold out. 
Play, "Agnes of God," Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. •• Fieldhouse, JACC. 8 a.m. 
• Guest Concert, "Charles Rosen, pianist." Snite. 2 p.m.
8 p.m. Tickets: 631-4626. 

• Film, "Now and Then." Cushing. 2 p.m.FRIDAY-February 23 : Play, "Agnes of God," Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. 2:30 Track, Alex Wilson Invitational. Loftus. 7 p.m. ft p.m. Tickets: 631-4626. Film, "Nobody's Fool." Carroll Auditorium, SMC. 7 and 9:30 • Lecture, "Sex, Race and Democracy," Kathleen Neal Cleaver, 
p.m. : Emory University. Washington Hall. 7 p.m. 
Film, "Living in Oblivion." Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. • TUESDAY -February 27 Play, "Macbeth," Washington Hall. 8 p.m. Sold out. • Play, "Agnes of God," Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. • Film, "Letter From Siberia." Snite. 7 p.m. 
s p,m. Tickets: 631-4626. ft Film, "Meet Me in St. Louis." Snite. 9 p.m. Film, "Now and Then." Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. : WEDNESDAY -February 28 
SATURDAY -February 24 : Film, "Waiting for Fidel." Snite. 7 p.m. 
Fencing, Midwestern Fencing Team Championships. • Film, "Easy Rider." Snite. 9 p.m. 
Fieldhouse, JACC. 8 a.m. : Track, Alex Wilson Invitational. Loftus. 12:00 p.m. • Film, "Now and Then." Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. • Basketball, ND Men vs. Seton Hall. JACC. 4 p.m. 9 Film, "Living in Oblivion." Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. •• Play, "Macbeth," Washington Hall. 2:30 a.m. and 8 p.m. Sold • 
out. • Play, "Agnes of God," Little Theatre, Moreau Center, SMC. 8 ! 
p.m. Tickets: 631-4626. • 
• (I 

Movies 1O: "B' 254:95s5_
• "Before and After," PG-13, 1:00, 4:30, 7:20, 10:10.
University Park West: "B' 277-7336. 
• "BlackSheep,"PG-13, 1:05, 3:15,5:25, 7:45, 9:55. • "Toy Story," G, 2:15, 4:45, 6:45. 
• ''Twelve Monkeys," R, 1:45, 4:35, 7:25, 10:15. • "Braveheart," R, 2:00, 5:20, 8:45. 
ss 

• "Unforgettable," R, 1:25, 4:1 0, 7:30, 10:1 o. 
• "Dead Man Walking," R, 1:45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:40. 
• "Sense and Sensibility,"PG, 1 :15,4:15, 7:15, 10:05. 
• "Richard Ill," R, 9:20. 

•''Mr.Holland's Opus," PG, 12:50, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00.
I C 

• "Leaving Las Vegas," R, 1:30, 4:20, 7:05, 9:50.
University Park East: "B' 211-7336. 
• "City Hall," R, 1:40, 4:40, 7:40, 10:15. 
• 
"Mary Reilly," R, 1:45, 4:15, 7:10, 9:55. 


• 
"Bed of Roses," PG, 12:55, 3:00, 5:1 o, 7:35, 9:45. • "White Squall," PG-13, 7:00, 9:40. 


LR 

• "Beautiful Girls," R, 1:20, 4:05, 7:10, 9:40. 
• 
"From Dusk Til Dawn," R, 7:20, 9:50. 


• 
"Rumble in The Bronx," R, 2:20, 4:30, 7:15, 9:30. 


VE Scholastic Movie Ratings: · 
• "Jumanji," PG, 2:00, 5:00. 

"Now andThen"-B 
• "Happy Gilmore," PG-13, 2:10, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45.' 
"Black Sheep"-C+ • "Muppet Treasure Island, " G, 1:30, 4:00, 7:00, "Mr. Holland's Opus"-B+
EE 
9:15. 

· "Dead Man Walking"-A • "Babe," G, 2:15, 4:45. 
RN 

26 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II FEBRUARY 22, 1996 





ffiake ffie Vour President 
BYJOHNlNFRANCA 
h, museums. Havens ofhands­
A
on learning and historic record. 
Or so I thought. While visiting my brother in Washington, DC this past January ,I discovered mistakes throughout the city (and not just on Capitol Hill). In the Museum of Natural History I was intrigued to learn that when the first fossil­ized footprints were found, they were be­lieved to be left by Noah's raven. Please excuse me for not being ignorant, but wasn'tthatadove? Butdon'tworry,lcan see the striking similarities in their appear­ances. The next day I toured the newNaval Memorial. There I came across a giant plaque which proclaimed that the decay­ing piece ofmetal in front ofme was from the U.S,S. Arizona, which, as everyone knows, sank on December 7, 1945. Better look that one up again, skipper. 
Having seen these glaring flaws in our nation's capital, I have taken it upon my­self to reform our nation. I have decided, with all good intentions, to run for the presidency of theUnitedStatesof America No,I'mnotkidding,andno,Idon'texpect to get a major party nomination. But who cares? I assure you that in November I will beresidingonPennsylvaniaAvenue(prob­ably in a cardboard box, eating cold beans and wearing old copies of The Observer). 
Now, onto my-platfonn. For this elec­tion, I will be jumping off the three-meter springboard. I do realize that most aspir­antsjump off tile 10-meter, but I was never a big fan of heights. 
Seriously, though, let's start with health care. Ihaveatwo-prongedattackplanned. First, prevention. We will distribute, at the tax payer's · expense, packages of Flintstones vitamins to every citizen. Sec­ond, treatment. With those vitaminscomes afreepackage of Sesame Street bandages. 
Without a moment to lose, let me move on to the budget deficit To solve this, and at the same time the debt, I propose turning the District of Columbia into a Federal Theme Park/Late Night Adventure Alley 


"To end the gridlock in Congress, I propose removing a/,l elected officials and replacing them with a giant Ouija board." 
(complete with putt-putt). We willbegin by turning the.Washington Monument into the world's largest ring toss. Using hula hoops, contestants willattempttowinexcitingprizes, including Bill Clinton's jogging shorts and George Washington's rotting corpse. For those who thrive on driving excitement, there's always the Ted Kennedy"Bridge-0­Death" Bumper Car Ride. Over at the Lin­coln Memorial, Honest Abe will get dressed up like Santa and for $5 children can present their Christmas wishes. For the aspiring sharpshooter, the front of the White House will become home to theShoot-Out-A-Win­dow-Win-A-Winnebago contest. 
All ofthese events serve the dual purpose of bringing needed revenue to the federal government and keeping the general popu­lace pacified for the duration of my presi­dency. Despite these many exciting (and I do mean exciting) diversions, don't think I'm going to give our nation's capital an inefficientfrat-house-typeatmosphere. Bet­ter men have done that already. To end the gridlock in Congress, I propose removing all elected officials and replacing them with a giant Ouija board. To ensure the balance of power, the Supreme Court will be replaced by a giant coin (head=innocent, tailS=guilty). 
As a way ofmaking sure we leave room for 
humanerror,thepresidencywill not change. 
National Defense is an issue very close to me. My proposal is a giant Ring Of Fire surrounding the coastal United States. Some may say that such a proposal would be difficult to control. However, I believe the recent events at the Tailhook Convention have proven that the same is true of our current armed forces. This ring will protect us from any nation's attack, while also burning limited fossil fuel (but let's not talk about that). That brings me to energy con­servation. Everyone.just stay put. That's right, ifyou don't move, you don't use any energy: problem solved. 
Asfortheenvironment, I propose that we polyurethane all animals. It will prevent wear and tear and make them distasteful to predators. Plus, who wants to wear a fur coatthatglowsin the dark? Noone, but that doesn'tmatternow,doesit? Let'smoveon. 
To refonn our welfare system, I propose giving everyone a free Monopoly set It's got money, real estate property and houses. Plus the revenues from the hotel can turn even the most undeserving deadbeat into a millionaire. Not to mention the game pieces make wonderful Christmas gifts. 
So there you have it, America, my plat­fonn to reinvigorate the United States and solve our nation's most pressing problems. Sure, if elected I probably won't end up doing most of these things, but the fact is I want to, and isn't idealism more important than results? If you 're the kind of person who hates to vote, I say this: please get out and vote this November. I promise, if elected King, excuse me, I mean President, you will never have to vote again. Instead, I will choose a successor. Come on, what's stopping you now? You may say, "Well, he'snot35."Butdon'tworry,Ihaveagreat fake ID. Time is running out! On Novem­ber 11 be sure to write my name in on the ballot. You won't regret it 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

I iiSIZU .i•IAD¦-----------------­



Sobering Up? 
by Kevin Kiefer 



'' 

Kevin Kiefer is a freshman and lives in Stanford Hall. 
e never stagger; we neverfall. We sober up on wood alcohol. We' re the drunkards ofthe town...'' 
To the tune of the Victory March, these were Then there are the people who are indirectly the words one ofmy high school math teach-affected by drinkers and their actions. We have all ers sang to me before I ever set foot on this seen the videos of the horrible accidents that were campus. His not-so-subtle point was that Notre the resullof driving under the influence ... acci­Dame is known for its drinking. And he was right dents so incredible that it seemed impossible that As of late, many students seem to be questioning anyone could survive (and no one did). I'm whetherornottheadministrationisplanningtomake confident that the administration will take these the campus dry. They think that the university is · things into account when making policies on trying to control the binge drinking that occurs and to · drinking. rid Notre Dame of the stereotypical Irish, Catholic, It just wouldn't make sense for the administra­drunk image. tion to make the campus dry, as it would force If the administration did make such a move, it . anyonewhowantstodrinktogooffcampus. This wouldn'tcausemeanyproblemsat_all. Idon'tdrink. would only increase the chances that a drunk But I have several friends, both freshmen and upper-student would get behind the wheel of a car to get classmen, who do drink. This issue is of great back to campus. Students at Notre Dame don't concern to them, as they are worried that they may be need that kind of risk in their lives. And no one losing their rights here at Notre Dame. · who is sober and on the road at the same time Personally, I do not believe that there are anyplans deserves that kind of risk forced upon him/her. tomakethecampusdry. Itjustwouldn'tmakesense. I'vealreadysaidthatldon'tdrink. Andi have By allowing students to have alcohol on campus and to admit that some of the binge drinking on this in their rooms, the administration offers students a campusdoesbotherme. Butlwouldmuchrather way to drink in an environment that is safer for all have a wet campus where conditions are at least involved. semi-controlled and definitely monitored, than to First, let's consider the students. Within each hall, have adry campus, which opens up thepossibility especially on weekends, there are always at least two of increased DUis and off-campus chaos. or three staff members on hand That means ifany I think that the administration mustfollow this problems develop as a result of excessive drinking, samelogic. Tothosewhothinktheadministration someone with knowledge of first aid is available and will make thecampus dry, I say thinkagain.·Their willing to help. pwpose may be to quell the binge drinking on Additionally, these problems can be taken care of campus, but it would only result in punishing on campus, whetherit'sbythehallstaffortheOffice those who do drink responsibly. That's not the ofResidenceLife. Inmostcase,studentsdonothave solution. Fortunately, I don't think we have to to deal with South Bend or Indiana state authorities. worry aboutit D 
28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 22, 1996 

• ·1995-96 SEASON • NOTR..E·DAME COMMLINICATION AND TI-IEATR..E PKESENTS 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL ON THURSDAY, FEBRLlt\R.Y 22, fR.IDAY, fEBR.LIAR.Y 23 AND SATLIKDAY, fEBRLIAR.Y 24 (MATINEE AND EVENING) MASTER.CAR.D AND VISA OR.DER.S CALL: 631-8128 
Age 7, 1982 · Age 15, 1990 Age 18, 1993 


Elizabeth Suto. 

I<illccl by a clnmll cllivcron Fclm1wy 27, 1994, 011 Bell Blvd. in Cedar Pwh, Texas. 
If you don't stop your friend from driving drunk, who will? Do whatever it takes. 
iiil 13:1,:4 ,:,i:;i ! 3iaij Ia:1 ,a•;i) 11, 4'ii\i):, :9 
U.S. Department of Transportation 

tfHdajpm 
""ml.' o ·r·,1£. ~nu > -en 

,<·..' /:./'~.:.•·1•· .. /...·.:···,···i••··.·.,.•••· ·•"-.·.,..····.: ·.· ••··.···•·'·.•··•:£, .....;·: .. ·•·••·..·.·.•.·•.'[l•.... ..f,.:3,.·A··.· ../···t.;!'·-.c•..·•.'••·•. -.·.·•.·•·•·•.i·...
..··1·,·W• ..•·•.· ·JP...·.,...··· •.,.•. .. ..1.;.·;··"'.:.* ...'.·.···:·• . ··•·•·.! ..· ..··.·•;··.· S'\ t 
NI "•<i 22' 
~ !;i
odlyi,$1 for 
\~i 
whole· lotta fun 
i' ·s·'ji '':; 11/';o 3''0\' -6·•;u. {A. >• •
J
t ,:J · ·:, : .. '..i .c::P-•, 1r I$f tSml.1 a · 
[.))~:.':.) ti ~~ .: (,.Fi. ;;,J 
ftN, ,.~ 


Bouncing Souls Blast off Country Style Built to Spill Silkworm Edsel Air Miami 
the Folk Implosion Shellac Noise Addict 
Fugazl Thirty Ought Six Boss Hog
Jawbox . ·
Eric's Trip 
Ida wvfi is the future of music st
ereolab 

Tortoise Polvo
write it down on your hand 
Girls against Boys June of 44 Chisel Jawbreaker Man or AstroMan? 
the Coctails +++>wvfi@rtd.~du<+++ Morphine Less Than-.Jake the Hi Fives The Sea and Cake Halo Benders D R I E t
Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 Brainiac Sunny ay ea s ate 



