

More than two decades after the march on Washing­ton, race relations are still a problem at Notre Dame. Any­one who walks around the campus can see that black enroll­ment is distressingly low. Those blacks who are on campus often encounter difficulties at this predominantly white, upper-middle class, Catholic university. This issue of SCHO­LASTIC examines the concerns of black students, among which are minority recruitment and black-white relations. 
The problems exist, the causes are complex and the solutions remain elusive.-There is one group, however, which is taking positive action. Recently, black students have joined together to form a chapter of the NAACP at Notre Dame. In addition to dealing with the concerns of blacks, this group will play a vital role in rai!>ing the entire community's awareness of the special problems facing minorities at our University. 
SCHOLASTIC commends all those who partici­pated in the formation of this organization. We encourage administrators and students alike to get involved with the Notre Dame NAACP and become conscious of the hopes and needs of ND's minority population. 
-SCHOLASTIC 
i 
J I 
-------------contents------------­
SCHOLASTIC Volume 127, Number 5 November 26, 1985 
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
.General Manager  Maher A. Mouasher  
Design Editor  Peter D. Wowkowych  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  
Marketing  

Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer /Circulation 


Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments 

. Mary Hartney /Student Life Mike Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/ Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 

Design 
Ellyn Parcels/ Art Tim Carl/Cartoonist John Gibbs/Cartoonist Emil McCauley /Cartoonist Kathleen Lau/Layout Kristin Malaker /Layout· Alfredo Marr /Layout Susan Serrato/Layout_ ._ . 

The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily reprel!\:nt the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the. opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented . for national 
·advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back-issues are available from · SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. ·AIi unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 


FEATURES 
2/A Tall Tale of Tailgating 
by Dean Sullivan 

4/Has Notre Dame Overcome? 
by Ted Kelleher 

8/Opening the Door 
by Cathyann Reynolds 

12/Black Admissions at SMC 
by Maureen Thompson 

13/Declining Black Enrollment 
by Joan T. Meyer 

22/An Athlete Dying Young 
by Pete Pranica 


24/Interview: Abbie Hoffman 
by Susan Yadlon 

28/We Are ND 
by Ian Larkin 


DEPARTMENTS 
16/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
18/On Other Campuses 1 
by Paul Aiello 

20/Music: Best Played Blues on Campus 
by Rachel Nigro 
26/The Aisle Seat 
by Theodore Mandell .. 
27/Fiction: Saturday Night Dance 
by James Grimes 
JO/Computer Comer 
by Louis Fuka 
32/Final Word 

by Carolyn Gray 
Letters 
The ·Scholastic accepts letters from any interested reader. Please address all correspondence to: Letters, Scholastic Magazine, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. Scholastic reserves the right to edit for clarity and space. 


CJ 
L.J 

8 
:09 a.m. Saturday: Stupid 8 :18 . a.m. Saturday: That's ing din pierces through the 

8 
:00 ~m. Saturday: A shriek­


snooze alarm! right social butterfly, it's a home pounding of your head. Is it a 
football weekend. . The truck backing up? No, some 
Bookstore's · filling up and the clown set your alarm. · 
steakburgers are frying. You, the student/tailgater, have to get up, shave your tongue and scrape your teeth --it's tailgating time! 


Tailgaters Thrive Despite Regulations 

by Dean Sullivan · 


SCHOLASTIC 


"An alum does ---. not butterfly, it's a home ''That's right social 
have to· just keep up football weekend and 
with the O'Joneses--he you ... the student__ / tail.;. 
has -to . beat ._~he plaid gater have to get up,' 
pants of-f_:therii-~ An alum has to have plaid
shave your to:O,gue and clothes, plaid cars, ·c;tnd
scrape your -· teeth-it's plaid children.· It's sur­
tailgating 'time.'' 
vival of the gaudiestj" .·· 
· After putting on proper spec­tator attire, the student/tailgater grabs· his ticket--a good tailgater is always prepared--and · heads out to Green field, passing various concession stands; he is in search of that first burger. He. stops at the last stand, sponsored·_ by· ND­SMC for Euthanasia and he is off with . his grease-dripping, rare burger. Just as he chomps off the first bite, he spots a mounted pol­iceman. The -. student/tailgater stares -at the burger. And then at the horse. Back at the burger. Into the nearest garbage recepta­
cle. · · · 
. Now . :the. student/taiigater must live by his _wits. He hits a parent-sponsored tailgater for food. . This is merely a pit stop-­salutations, sandwich, and so long. "Hello ma'am,:my pleasure." "Oh, no tha~k you, ;I just ate--well, if you insist." "Hate to eat and run, but..." 
. On his way . to· astu·dent-run tailgat~r, the student/tailgater 
' ,' ' :·: 

passes alums .of , various . ages. They have one· thing in common, . one-upmanship.· ·. An alum · does not have to just keep up with the · O'Joneses--he has to beat the plaid pants off them. An alum has to have plaid clothes, plaid cars, and plaid children. It's survival of the gaudiest. 
The student/tailgater passes a van with a car horn piaying the Victory March. This car horn is __ God;s gift to aspirin makers. __ An : Irish flag waves in the breeze; ·. people sing the · alma mater--no _one is singing the -sanie _words. Bumper stickers abound: "We're behind the · Irish" is the :rallying cry of one ' group· of festive par­tiers. "God made Notte Dame 
#l" is the· claim of another plaid­clad clan. 
Finally, the stud~nt/tailgater has reached· the promised land--. 
· the backstop by Senior Bar. The · backstop hasn't ·been quite the same .since the new rules were handed down. In the good old 
days, for example, ,Dillon· tail­gaters made Sodom and Gomor­rah look like the Twin Cities. . Masses of humanity moved · as . one, . gnawed on steakburgers, _­choked down those · morning be·ers. "I'm nothing until my first ·beer in the morning," one diehard tailgater• would say. "Yeah," · · another agreed, "the first five or : six are harsh, but after that, it's . easy." A DJ would set up behind 
-the backstop and van roofs would -become dance floors.· Those were the days. 
Tailgaters now are no longer as elaborate as before--the mounties and company see to that--but not even Dudley Do-rite can stop the 
. •intrepid -· tailgater. The student/tailgater should keep in mind these two basic rules of tail­
gating:; · ·-· l. Stretch out properly-­. you don't want to pull a muscle out there. . 
2.' ·Dress correctly--no one likes a naked tailgater._• · 

. . . 
. .

·-·1·
a 


attn 
53d _U U:b d • d YU U: M a L a j C ¥
•

-.h_ ..
as 

notre da01e overco01e.·? 
.... N D has 

an . embar­rassing little secret. The secret is that in the better than twenty years siP..C.e. t4e. Civil Rights Act, and even under the leadership· of one of the original m~mbei-s of the Civil Rights Commission, Notre Dame still has big problems with on-campus race . r~lations. 
· While there is no open warfare, things are far from comfortable and harmonious. . 
For many black students, the problems b~gin on day one. It is Hkely that a black freshman will fi~d that. he or she is the only minority student in the class. "It's not an uncomfortable situation for me because I'm used to ·it But then . again I'm distressed that there aren't nioi-e blacks in the classrooms at Notre Dame," says senior Ken McManus: Lisa Boy­kin; . a sophomore, and CO'­president of the Black Cultural Arts Council, adds that "whether being black helps you in the class­room· or hurts makes no differ­ence. The point is that .in many instances a teacher's impressions of your performance are affected . simply by the color of your skin." 
The . difficulties encountered by blacks do not end at the class­room door. Many . black students point to experiences with fresh­man roommates shocked by the prospect of_ living . with a. black. 
Oth.ei-s-relate how they gained ahnost' immediate notoriety as ''that black ·kid up 011:-the second fioor". "I never really expected to· have any problems ·being accepted _here, but I can still· remember · walking into parties freshman 
by . Ted Kelleher 

Black Cultural Arts Council and the NAACP voice similijr opin­ions. 
Simple bigotry would be a generally inaccurate and far · too simplistic explanation for ._ the problem of black:-white relations at Notre Dame. It· is a. problem rooted in something deeper than overt racism. Underscoring the 
year and sensing that people were .. race issue is the fact that the stu­
. surprised or uncomfortable abcmt my being. there. I've spent a :lot tinie at . parties being ignored," says Boy~n: 
Not all-black students claim to have trouble In: adjusting to life at Notre Dame: ·"I went to an all white high· school a~ci · inost of my 
.friends .all my life . have been white. So for me, coming here was no big ·deal; But I think °I'ni atypi­c~l," says one · black junior. 
However, one :is left with a clear impression that a majority of blacks are dissatisfied with their· experience at Notre Dame. In an article .recently published in .Notre Dame Magazine , Lester Flemons asserts that "blacks 'do not have a pleasant experiehce•· here." · Leaders of the· 'two· Ill~JOr black organizations on this campus,' the · dent body is distressingly homo­genous in terms of socio­economic, religious,-and· political background; . Most of the whites on campus are upper or upper-middle class, ·:Roman Catholic, and went to all-white private high schools. Most 'Yhites here have never had a black classmate, 
much . less a black friend. "Unfamiliarity. breeds misunder­standing and thus discomfort," says McManus. 
Unfamiliarity also often breeds insulting stereotypes. "People on this campus assume that a black is here to play a var­sity sport," says Carlton West, president of Notre Dame's newly formed chapter of the NAACP. Several ..black students inter­viewed for. this article, none of whom plav a varsity sport, stated 
. SCHOLASTIC 

a :a a a a a a cs a _a a a am a a a a a u a a rs
A a 
that they are often asked if they ­are -football or basketball players. Contributing to this stereotype is the fact that almost two-thirds of Notre Dame's blacks are varsity athletes. "I'm proud that blacks have excelled in athletics, but unfortunately the cost of that suc­cess -has been that black achieve­ment in other fields, especially academics, has been largely over­looked," says West. 
The · stereotypes run deeper. 

Many whites form preconceived ideas about blacks from television shows such as "The Jeff ersons" or "Good Times" and then cling to those ideas even as experience proves them false. One black stu­dent said he was once asked on this campus, in all seriousness, if it was true that all blacks are Muslims. "The news media also helps establish an image of blacks as aggressive, · militant, and violent," says senior Gary Cooper. "When a black commits a. crime the media always notes that he's black. This just helps perp_etuate the stereotypes." 
Obviously, it would be short­sighted to think thaJ these prob­lems exist only at Notre Dame. 
26 NOVEMBER 1986 
Black leaders on this campus are quick to point out that racial issues transcend Notre Dame both historically and geographically. Carlton West notes that, "racism itself in America -has changed over time. While we• would like to think that this all ended in the seventies and that America is a non-racial society, it still goes on. 
-It is less overt -and more subtle and institutionalized now. -It is true that when I leave Notre Dame, I will enter American society on the same level as any one else enters. But wherever I go I -will face misconceptions _and stereotypes. Thus, I will encounter obstacles -to my advancement not faced by whites. To me, this is racism.'' Elaine Jackson adds that "a lot of whites aren't aware there's any prejudice left." While white middle class suburban_ America may hav~ rejected bigotry as an intellectual -proposition, -the old misunder­standings are -still there; · Notre Dame is no exception to this . phenomenon. · 
Many _blacks at Notre Dame feel that whites have made little effort to overcome their previ­ously · formed misconceptions. 
"While white, middle class, suburban America __ may have rejected bigo­try as an intellectual 
-proposition, many of the old misunderstand­
ings  are ­ still  there; ·  
Notre  Dame  is  no  
exception  to  this  
phenomenon."  

Boykin notes that BCAC events, although aggressively advertised as open to people of all races, are never well attended by white stu­dents: "We had a semi-formal dance this semester at Stepan 
Center. We practically knocked on doors to try to get whites to attend. We were very optimistic beforehand -but ultimately there were only ahandful of white stu­-dents there." Clearly, without cross-cultural social activity on this campus, cross-cultural under­
standing will be foiled. 
One difficulty is that many whites feel quite uncomfortable when dealing with racial issues. Elaine Jackson, afifth year archi­tecture student, notes how whites seem almost embarrassed -to say the word "black" in the company of a black. In essence, many . whites are afraid they will feel the same way at black events that some_ black· students feel at all ­white events: conspicuous and self-conscious. However, Avrille Semo, vice-president of Notre ­Dame's NAACP says, "Blacks on · · -this campus are generally quite 
accepting toward whites. The 
NAACP or the BCAC would be 
more than happy to have white 
F V
a a C U41 CZ C U C O b ..... '" C d C CM d 
Carlton West -President, Notre Dame NAACP 


students at these functions." All too often the white community regards these invitations as mere formality. .The leaders of the black organizations, however, are quite sincere in their desire for more -cross-cultural activity at Notre Dame. 
While. whites can quite com­fortably avoid 'the prospect of dealing with. black students, qlacks cannot walk away from the issue as easily. "What a black faces on this campus is the same thing that he'll face in a American· society at large. The power struc­ture in this country is white; to get anywhere in that structure a black. has to learn to deal with whites," says senior Ray Carter. This is bound to create some ten­sions .. West says, "To be success­ful in American society, the black is forced to · walk a line between two cultures, those of white and black America. Some blacks resolve this conflict by negating their own culture and trying to completely enter white society, while others· do just the opposite; and retreat entirely into black culture." 
Such racial tension has led to real problems within both the 
white and black communities on 
. this campus. Labels and stigmas are attached to blacks who spend much of · their time, with whites and vice versa. The terms "no­hang" and "guilty white liberal" symbolize the continuing atmo­sphere of separatism pervasive at • Notre Dame; The attitudes are even. worse when it comes to interracial dating. There is clearly a stigma attached to dating some­one ·of the opposite race. , Thus, cultural misunderstanding affects even the most · basic of social interactions at Notre Dame. 
· The cost of strained and uncomfortable race relations for many blacks here is frustration, isolation, and alienation, but there are also costs for the Notre Dame community as a whole. Notre . Dame professes that its goal is to . provide its students with a· broad liberal education. In many ways, this goal is embodied by Notre Dame's . curriculum: However, much of what we learn ·· here is learned outside the · classroom . through social interaction and . personal experience. With fewer than two hundred . blacks on canipus,.. opportunities · f qr · con­structive interaction are few. The 
bottom line is that most whites here fail to receive a very impor­tant perspective in cultural educa­tion, that is, the black perspective. Whites come here knowing little about blacks, and they leave knowing little about blacks .. 
The obvious question is what can Notre Dame do to facili­tate harmonious interracial rela­tions on this campus and provide an educational experience for stu­dents of all races? A number of people, both black and white, suggest that increasing the number of blacks on campus is the first key step. The Adminis­tration is attempting to do . just that but it has not found this to be an easy task. 
West and · Semo both suggest that the • Administration could do more to increase awareness of minority issues by focusing more attention on cross-cultural under­standing within the classroom:. Others feel Black Studies should ·· be upgraded. Hiring more black faculty members would also pro­vide more opportunities for both academic and social interaction. 
between blacks and whites. 
It would be unfair, however, 
SCHOLASTIC 

a a·· , .. a a j j ...
a u I U d 6 N 


Lisa Boykin ­Co-President, BCAC 

to blame the Administration alone for the ra~ia.l tensions at Notre Dame. To some extent, the black community has contributed to its own dilemma. "When I came here, I didn't feel like there was a lot of support for me from within the black community," says Cooper. Blacks generally express such a sentiment. Black leaders have voiced frustration over the degree of 2.. black apathy on campus. 
Again, the problem stems from a national cause.. "When I came here, all I wanted to do was get my diploma and leave," says West. "I didn't want to look back to where I came from. This is an attitude that is all too common among the black middle class. They don't want to deal with the situation facing poor blacks, and thus they tend to negate black culture." Instead of helping to improve intercultural understand­ing, the black middle class, through its own apathy, may be helping to perpetuate it. 
West, among others, is optimistic that concern for race relations among blacks is begin­ning to grow. He hopes that the 
26 NOVEMBER 1986 
NAACP, coupled with a more active BCAC, can inount a two pronged attack on the misconcep­tions and unfamiliarity that most whites bring to Notre Dame. "After a certain point, I realized I could just accept the problems here and live with them or do something about them and try to effect change. When you see prob­lems in your community, you've got to try to do something," says Semo. Such a commitment among 
black leaders will be critical· as 
Notre Dame grapples with . the 
race relations issue. 
The key condition, however, necessary for improving race rela­tions at Notre Dame is a change in the white students' perspective. The University could increase the number of black students, the BCAC and the NAACP could talk all they want, but until white students at Notre Dame make a commitment to improve race rela­tions, little, if anything, will hap­pen. Thus far, troubled race rela­tions reveal the fact that whites have not made that sort of com­mittmcilt. 
"There's nothing wrong," says West, "with recognizing the cultural differences between peo­ple, provided that these differ­ences don't blind us to our com­mon humanity. Blacks and whites can learn a lot from each other provided we're both willing to listen." Boykin adds, "blacks don't want whites to treat them specially, just normally." "I can realize that its not easyto take the first step," says Semo, "but unless whites try to understand blacks and blacks try to understand whites, we're left with the pros­pect of an increasing distance between our races." • 

"Many black stu­dents point to expen­ences with freshman roommates shocked by the prospect of living with a black One ·black student said he was once asked on this campus, if all blacks 
are Muslims." 
7 
I : 
1, !;' 

d U u u et U U U 4 U bl US U a
u u

u u u 
OPENING THE DOOR 
by Cathyann Reynolds 
Black Admissions at N. D. 
This fall 1875 freshmen enrolled at Notre Dame; 4 7 of those students are black. Out of those 47, 10 are scholarship ath­letes and were initially contacted by the Department of Athletics at Notre Dame. In fact, since 1966, the average number of enrolled black freshman. students has been only 43. Maybe it is time for Notre Dame to question why the numbers of enrolled black stu­dents has never risen signifi­cantly, and what influences these trends. 
Univei;sity President Father Theodore Hesburgh, who served on the Civil Rights Commission, acting as chairman for part of the Nixon Administration, verbally committed the University's efforts toward building up its black com­munity when Notre Dame played in the 1970 Cotton Bowl game against the University of Texas. Hesburgh announced on national television that much of the proceeds from the game would be directed towards financial aid for minority students. The numbers of black students enrolling rose from 28 to 59. Then in 1971-72, only 54 black students enrolled, the. figure dropping to 21 the next year. 
Notre Dame, noted for its commitment to social justice, still lags behind other Catholic. univer­sities in committing to the growth of its black student population.· As Lestor Flemons, a Notre Dame student, points out, "while approximately 80 percent of the 
1.1 million (U.S.) black students are now• <;nrolled at predom­inantly white universities, other Catholic college percentages show a stronger sense of commitment towards the idea· of black equal­ity: Depaul ( 10.5. percent), Dayton 
(5.2 percent), Xavier (4.9 per­cent), St. Joseph of Indiana (4.3 percent)," compared to Notre Dame (2.7 percent). 
Many blacks find · the social situation on the University's campus less than secure. Judging from the tables in the dining halls 
· where one often finds blacks associating mainly with blacks, whites with whites, racial integra­tion on campus is far from com­plete. Said Ed Blackwell, · Direc­tor of Minority Affairs, "One must recognize that blacks have just as serious an adjustment as foreign students." Few .of the traditional Notre Dame families are black and enrollment is tradi­tionally continuous through alum­nae families. The many difficulties in adjusting to life as a minority at Notre Dame are reflected in their 25 percen,t attrition rate, compared to an overall rate of only 10 percent. 
Kevin Rooney, in his· first year as Director of Undergradu­ate Admissions at Notre Dame, previously Director of Admissions at Yale University, admits, "The 
_../. 

u a a a a a a a a : a u C f U u r d a ur
" ' 


University would like to see more black students, but we have not had enough student and alumni participation in the recruitment schedule until now." 
Rooney recognizes that Notre Dame is an uncompetitive natural market for black students. He said, "the University is predominantly Catholic and most blacks are not Catholic. But there is a flip side. Some blacks would choose Notre Dame for its Chris­tian basis." As far as Notre Dame's location is concerned, "those that come from larger metropolitan areas and from the South might choose another college;..and we are in heavy com­petition with other universities in more . desirable locations," said Rooney. 
Rooney stated that Notre Dame's , predominantly white image was a primary reason for its low rank on the natural market 
26 NOVEMBER 1985 
for minority students. The lack of 
adequate culturally related educa­
tional and social support· systems 
at Notre Dame "forces students to rely on themselves. Students must make a conscious effort to say 'Yes I am going to a predom­inantly white college,'" Rooney added, "the main concern of a potential student is 'Will I succeed?"' 
How does a traditionally white "Irish" university recruit black students? Rooney explains that Notre Dame's College Search program uses the list of top academic black and Hispanic high school students to · · begin the recruiting process. The admissions office identifies and visits high· schools with significant minority populations that have received solid academic preparation. Some 7,000 to 9,000 students of all races who score well on national tests receive personally addressed letters, recruiting materials and applications. 
Follow-up encouragement, including an invitation to visit the · campus, is extended to those who respond to the appeal by mail. The student would then be sent the same package as any other student. But this year the recruit­ment package includes an option to contact a current Notre Dame student. "This gives prospective students more choice," says Roo­ney. 
Students involved in the Black Cultural Arts Council, have also been working hard toward increasing the admissions of minorities, particularly blacks. The BCAC Newsletter states: "Admissions: Don't just complain about the lack of minorities on campl!s do something about it. The Undergraduate Schools Com­mittee (USC) needs your help. All it entails is returning to your old high school and recruiting minority applicants." 
. 9 

~, 
st \ a \. ,_ a d a b a d d C C C b a a b a a b Cd a u a u a b .. 
·come Visit Your Mother's Place (a.k.a. Stanford Food Sales) -OPEN 7 DAYS EVERY WEEK 9:30pm-l 2am Sun-Thurs. I0:30pm-lam Fri and Sat. -NIGHTLY SPECIALS MON.-THURS. -GREAT PRICES ALL THE TIME Soda: 12oz cans: 40 cents 16oz bottles: 45 cents + 10 cents dei:>osh Pizza: 9 inch: $2.00 + 30 cents/topping 12 inch: $2.60 + 40 cents/topping 12 inch,thick crust OR 14 inch: $3.00 + 50 cents/topping -HOTDOGS -CHILIDOGS -CHEEZDOGS -CHIPS . -SOUP -HOT CHOCOLATE -CANDY -MUCH MUCH MORE... -COMPARE OUR SELECTION AND SAVE$$$ PHONE AHEAD FOR PIZZA ORDERS #283-3988  6111 ~V@wlIB@ The Notre Dame Advertising Network EHpensiue-Looking Aduertising at an ineHpensiue price. ·1f you're-interested in having us do your advertising for less then you __ _ can do it yourself, come see the Adworks people in the Student Government Offices, Second Fl oar, LeFortune Student Center. Posters• Obseruer • Scholastic Office hours : Monde~ -Fri de~ from 3:00 to 5:00, or cell 239-7668.  


The main student contact this year for prospective students is sophomore Martin Rodgers who works in the admissions office in .the Undergraduate Schools Com­mittee, which encourages alumni 
·to return to high schools. This year Rodgers also visited high schools over October Break in his home town of Philadelphia to talk to interested applicants. In the past students and counselors have _gone strictly to old high schools to ::recruit but -in an effort to· make·_ the USC more comprehensive -­Rodgers went to other high 
schools which had appeared• on Notre Dame's recruitment 
schedule. "I targeted schools with the minority students that showed .initial interest w~th their pre­
-· -­

application cards," Rodgers
-explained. ­
Rodgers explains that 

,tifroilgli the efforts of the use .':Rodge?s· there twice before he 'the number of black applicants applied to the college and called 
10 
has risen. "You go back to your 
old high school and someone sees 
that this person did travel to col­
lege and is doing okay there. If 
you know someone that goes to 
the school it really helps. It lets 
_them kriow that we want them to 
come." Another growing facet of 
the recruitment program is the 
newly formed black Notre Dame 
alumni group, the ASC, once part 
of Assistant Director· of Admis­
sions Pat Leonardo's 30-40 core 
nieiliber :group of alumni who met 
to help -in recruiting all types of 
students; ­
Other competitive tiniversi'­

ties-and colleges have different recruiting efforts. "If you are a senior and are a talented minority in_ high school, your mailbox is ·swamped--with college---catalogs;''­said Rodgers. Colby College, with ~ special scholarship fund; flew 
him once a month. Notre Dame 
does fly students here for the 
Minority Student Recruitment 
Weekend. It is the continual Con­
tact Colby and other colleges, 
make that -has been the deciding 
factor in their successes; 
Recruiting and contacting the 

prospective student until she or 
he enrolls at Notre Dame· is cru­
cial since, with the same number 
of applicants in 1985 as in 1984, 
extended recruitment raised the, .I 
number of enrolled students froni -' 
36 to 47. This had been difficult 
in the past. But Notre Dame has. 
J·ust recently expanded its Admis­
sions Committee of only 5 admis­
sions counselors plus director to a staff of IO counselors, adding assistant directors in -1977 (when -Pat L-eonardo took over as Direc­
tor). 
Because of the recent efforts­by the BCAC, Rodgers cited an impressive turnout during the 
SCHOLASTIC 

d did w:,-d USC 52 . d ct bl d di 152 a a au a 

USC's Minority Open House, October 31, 1985, where two USC members .. escorted each prospective student. Yet, some students charge that the weekend, usually during An Tosta!, misrepresents Notre Dame as a campus with a high percentage of blacks. The visiting black student is well accepted that day and does not feel like a minority. One black student, a sophomore at Notre Dame, said he remembers that pleasant feeling when visiting Notre Dame but found a "dif­ferent picture" in his first four months here as a freshman. 
Last year the only visiting blacks on the weekend were those named Notre Dame · Scholars. Another, possibly related fact, is that Notre Dame's 7 million doilar Minority Scholarship · Fund, of which only the interest is used, aids only those minorities named Notre Dame Scholars. Com­mented Rodgers, "I find it 
26 NOVEMBER 1985 
Martin Rodgers 
shameful that Notre Dame has the. ability to go and recruit football and basketball players but it. is not the same for strictly academic students." 
Notre Dame's financial aid packages pale in comparison with those of other highly competitive 
, schools. "Harvard, · Yale and Princeton are hard to overcome with their reputation, financial aid packages and desirable locations," said. · Rooney, · who added, "Apparently Notre Dame funds through the Financial Aid office are iess available on all levels in comparison to other Ivy League schools." Some of the blame also lies with the public's perception of these cuts in Financial Aid. As ,reported by Kerry Temple in Notre Dame Magazine, "Fewer blacks are attending college because of new aid eligibility restrictions--and an even greater number are not applying because of a misperception that the reduc­tions are more severe than they 
really are." 
According to Notre Dame's Financial Aid Director, Joseph Russo, a minority student quali­fies for. finandal aid by being admitted, being in good standing, and demonstrating financial need. Sources of financial aid are scho­larships, grants, loans, student 
. employment, university funds and non-university funds. 
· The amount of funds avail­able for minorities is divided into each class. Thus, the amount · available to minorities this 'year would depend· on the number C>f 
, minorities who grad?ate? · l~st 
· year. The total of mmonty. aid · given out ~n 1984-85 was $2,470,000 which was lower than t~e 1983-84 total of $2;?50,_0?0, a dxrect result of fewer mmontxes at Notre Dame that year: "If the new recr~itment schedule is sue: ~essful with student and .alumru . mvolvem~nt, maybe a roll can · happen m another direction," stressed Rooney.• 
11 



CJ
" '

----·.......".....,Black Admissions 
at 

This fall approximately 1800 students came together to form the student body at Saint Mary's College; 6 of those students were black. One might have noticed that minorities are not a highly visible group on campus. In addi­tion to the small population of blacks, there are 35 Hispanic stu-. dents and 12 Asian students. 
The Associate Director of Admissions, Mary Pat. Nolan stated that they do not keep track of the number of minority stu­dents who apply to the College. She said that the question regard­ing the race of the prospective student is, by law, optional, and 
· therefore unreliable: many leave it .
I: blank. 1: 
I.I The main concerns of the 
11 
· Admissions office seem to lie not with obtaining certain numbers of minorities, but · in making· sure that the minorities who -do choose Saint .. Mary's . are content · with their college experiences: "We 
. don't single .out minorities on the front end because that would be reverse discrimination," Nolan said. 
Currently, members of the admissions staff visit . cities such as · Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Phoenix and Detroit where large numbers of minorities live. A study conducted three years ago on minority recruitment con­cluded that more in-depth research needs to be conducted. The faculty and administration were encouraged by the results of the study . to attend workshops and lectures on the subject. They also began to locik · at what some of the other colleges and universi­
12 
by Maureen Thompson

St. Mary's 
" . ..
1Ii:;;i> d,iJ . J(i _:!i.ttri,1;,ct m1nortty ~tu~ dents. 
While it has been difficult to attract minorities to Saint Mary's, those who do choose Saint Mary's 
· most often enjoy the school and the opportunities that it offers. The minority students are usually interested in· interacting with . the 
minority students at Notre Dame, . and they are encouraged to join Notre Dame .clubs, activities and 
. organizations. 
· Last : year Judith Casey, Director of Finacial Aid, and Carol Ann Carter, Associate Pro­fessor of Art, two black members of the administration and faculty, met with the seven black studenti. who were attending Saint Mary's. 
· Casey and Carter helped the girl~ · to organize an informal dance for all minority students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. "The positive response was very excit­
. ing," Casey said. ''This is some­thing that we could continue ·to do for the minority students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame." 
Casey and Carter were also concerned about how the Black :~tti,d.ent~ !5e"!t ~rotr~t 'bc.ing a p~trt ,Uif such a small minority on a predominantly white campus. They found out several things from this small group of students. The students said that they were content at Saint Mary's; they enjoyed the academic challenge and they had all made many close friends. All of them at some time had been uncomfortable at St. Mary's, being part of such small minority. Some felt as though white students would ignore them~-or attempt to keep distance between themselves · and the . minority students. Casey con­cluded that most likely. this was due to the lack of exposure to minorities that most of the. stu­dents had previously had. • . 
Help Wanted 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home ! Write: PO Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 
SCHOLASTIC 

u I U 4 U d d d U d d a & d U d u a
Sb bi u " 

The declining enrollment of blacks in institutions of higher learning is, an issue which is beginning to receive increased attention-in the media. Prominent publications such as Time, The Wall Street Journal, The New York. Times and 
US News and World Report have recently published articles focus­ing on the problem and its causes. 
The American Association of State Colleges and ·Universities· found in a recent · study that although the number of black high-school graduates grew. sub~ stantially between 1975 and 1982, the percentage of these students ­who went on to enroll in college decreased from 31.5 to _28 per­cent. In 1972, blacks constituted only 3 percent -of all students enrolled in 4 year institutions. That figure reached a record 10.3 percent in 1976 but dropped again to 9.6 percentin 1982. 
The increase in black enroll­ment during the 1970's largely reflected the impact of the civil rights struggle of · the previous _ decade. -These advances came as federai funds · for minority stu~ dents · and programs more than doubled and schools significantly stepped up their efforts to attract minority-group students and faculty members. But today, "the urgency -of the 1960's and the steady growth of the l970's are gone," says _the Rev. Timothy Bealy, president· of Georgetown University. "Increasing minority _access is no longer a-front-burner _ issue." 
. Educators and analysts say that money is a big factor in the decline of minority participation · in higher education. Rising costs and decreasing aid hit the black population-harder than· other groups: "Thirty-six percent of the black population lives in poverty" according to James E. Blackwell of the University of Mas­sachusetts. Unfortunately,in the last three years most colleges have increased. their charges by 7 to 1 0 percent ayear--twice the inflation ­rate. Federal student· aid pro­g~ams, however, have not kept ­pace with the increase. A recent study by the American Associa-· tion -of State Colleges noted that in 1974 the maximum Pell Grant for low-income students was $1600 and calculated that to maintain comparable purchasing power in higher education, this figure should now be $3000. But the maximum grant this year is only $2100. 
· Since the federal budget changes of 1981, recipients of financial aid are -required to -· assume a much greater debt bur­den than their counterparts of the l 970's; A decade ago, a typical aid package would contain only 

26 NOVEMBER 1986 ' ---· ­
----------~---------~---------­
::i 
.! 

27 n n s P J P R S n s s n so r r n n 7 7 C
• 


17 percent loans. Today, loans acc_ount for nearly half of such a : package. Rather than acquire a heavy debt burden, some minority students are apparently deciding 
•.· to drop out or forgo college. The American Council on Education found that, "People at the bottom 
.of the economic ladder do not move from grants to loans. They don~t . have the resources to ·pay them back." 
Educators also .. say Ameri­cans' educational concerns have shifted from issues of equity and access to. issues of quality. Over the .. last five years virtually all states have passed legislation to increase academic standards. This includes stricter course require­ments for high school graduation and admission to public universi'.' ties. As one official. points out, "This ·is an absolutely good idea, but there are other consequences · if you . increase English require­ments · from three to four years and know that many minority stu­dents won't meet them." Students from understaffed urban ghetto and rural secondary schools will either have to seek tutorial assis­tance or get lost in the shuffle. 

Of the blacks who earn • col­leg~ degrees, the numbers seeking further education beyond the undergraduate level have also dropped. · Between 1976 and 1982, . while overall graduate school enrollment grew slightly nationwide, black enrollment declined 16%, according to the National Center for Educational Statistics. Of those students work­ing toward Masters degrees, blacks, who make up 13 percent of the college age population, were awarded 6.5 percent of the degrees in 1979 and 5.8 percent in 1981. Educators say the statis­tics show few signs of improve­ment and · in many cases have been getting worse. 
As is the case for undergra­duates, money is the major obsta­cle for black college graduates seeking further education. Many are discouraged by the figures: a 4-year medical degree can run up to $100,000 and for a 3;.:year law degree up to $50,000. Since half of black Americans come from families with annual incomes of $12,000 or less, opportunities for further study look bleak. 
In addition to cost, lack of role models in higher education is blamed for the . decrease. Minor-. ity students often feel alienated because they do not find role models either in the student body or on the faculty. In 1980, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission estimated that only 
4.4 percent of university faculty members were black. This cycle of low levels of faculty members leading to decreasing stude·nts leading to, of course, even fewer qualified faculty has concerned 

u u u u u • a u Sb a a a a a u a 

some corporate organizations such as the Ford Foundation. The foundation recently announced a $9-million program to increase the number of minority-group profcs-· sors. 
Other institutions dedicated to the success of blacks in higher education are black colleges. Minority schools, both public and private, provide black faculty role models and fight to keep tuition low to attract low-income stu­dents who otherwise could not go to college. State and federal aid has recently rescued many black colleges from hard times due to higher expenses and declining enrollment. A recent issue of US News and World Report reported that the Administration is helping by increasing the Reagan partici­pation of black colleges in federal programs and providing funds to help strengthen their endowments. 
Controversy, however, has arisen over the quality of black colleges. Jacquelyn Johnson Jackson, a sociologist at Duke University who has taught at black colleges, says such special treatment by the Reagan Administration should stop. She commented for US News and World Report, "Most black colleges are becoming the trashcans of higher education. They should not be glorified elementary or high schools." However, Jaqueline Fleming, author of B 1 a ck s l.!!. Co 1 1 e g e , says the black col­leges continue to serve ·a national purpose. Among the unique bene­fits of black colleges, Flemming noted that they provide an oppor­tunity for black students to attend college in a supportive atmo­sphere, educate students that other institutions have largely ignored, produce a sizable portion of black leadership, and produce graduates who fare as well in the job market and graduate school as do blacks from other institutions. Sherman Jones, executive vice­president of Tuskegee Institute noted, "The question should not be whether black colleges are any longer needed, but whether the college at hand is ,of such quality or potential that it deserves the support of the community to con­tinue and advance its work."• 
Clearly a problem as complex as that of the decline of black participation in higher education can have no easy answers. Perhaps though, now that the problem is gammg increased exposure, ideas for change will follow.• 



~mon 2 
FILM:"Hiroshima Mon Amour" Snite 7,9pm 
FILM: "A Soldier's S.tory" Engineering Auditoriwn 7,9pm 

ART: Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice , O'Shag Gallery West · · November 3 -January 19 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 O'Shag Gallery West November 17 -January 6 

ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition Saint Mary!s College Galleries November 16 -December 13 
ART: French Mast~r Drawings From the Permanent Collection The Snite Musewn of Art November 14 -January 19 
SPORTS: Woman's Basketball -at Western Michigan Classes Reswne • at 8 am Faculty Senate Meeting 
tues 3 

FILM: "To Be or Not To Be" Snite 7:30pm 
FILM: "A Soldier's Story" Engineering Auditoriwn 7,9pm 

ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: 100-Mile Radius· Student Competition ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection SPORTS: Men's Basketball -at Indiana 
7:30 pm 
Good Morning Movie Scottsdale Mall 

't§rwed 4 
i'ILM: "West Side Story" Engineering ·Auditoriwn 7, 10 pm 

ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition 
·ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection Notre Dame Football Banquet ACC 
White Water Series Century Center 12 noon 
// 

IJICOMING··n1 
deceml: 

thur s j 

FILM: "West Side Story" Engineering Auditoriwn 
f

7, 10 pm FILM: "Page of Madness" . · 
Loft 
7pm 

LECTURE: Gregory Bawn Memorial Library Auditoriwn 8pm 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student· Competition ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: "Hay Fevei;J·' 
Notre Dame / St. Mary's Theater O'Laughlin Auditoriwn ,:_ SMC 
December 6, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 SPORTS: Woman's Basketball -Michigan JUNIORS: Class Christmas. Party 
LaFortune Ball Room 
in the even:ing Statistical Q~ality Control -Seminar _ The Friends' 4th Annual Christmas Benefit 
Dinner and Purchase Fund Voting The Snite Musewn of Art 
' ' '

--6pm· ---·-... ---... -_. 

.$fri 6 
FILM: "Paris, Texas" Snite 7:30pm 1 
FILM: "Gremlins" Engineering Auditoriwn 
l 

7, 9:16, 11:30 pm ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition , ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: "Hay Fever" SPORTS: 
Wrestling -at Las Vegas Invitational TBA Hockey -Alabama-Huntsville 
7:30 pm 
JUNIORS: Class Adopt-A-Child Christmas Party South Dining Hall 7-9pm 
FRESHMEN: Date Night 
---. 
[STRACTION ,er 2-11 


sat 7 
FILM: "Gremlins" Engineering Auditoriwn 7, 9:16, 11:30 pm 

ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : _1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition . ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: "Hay Fever" PERFORMING ARTS: "The Nutcracker" 
Morris Civic Center December 7 -8 SPORTS: . Wrestling -at Las Vegas Invitational TBA Hockey -Alabama-Huntsville 7:30pm Men's Basketball -Loyola 4pm 
SOPHOMORES: Shopping Trip To Chicago 10 am-11 pm Tickets On Sale Nov. 20-26 
"A Victorian Christmas" Northern Indiana Historical Society December 7-8 
Law School Admission Test Engineering Auditoriwn 
· su·n s~ 
MUSIC: Facul~ Violin Recital: Laura Klugherz . ~ Annenberg Aliditoriwn · 
4pm 

MUSIC: Notre Dame Chorale and Brasil Ensemble Concert Sacred Heart Church 8pm 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius •Student Competition . ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection PERFORMING ARTS: "The Nutcracker" 
Morris Civic Center 

SOPHOMORES: Cl1188 Mass . Keenan-Stanford· Chapel 11 am 
SOPHOMORES: Christmas Brurich Following Mass in A-line 
•~A Victorian Christmas". · Northern indiana Historical Society 
Zooltide 186 Potawiltomi Park Zoo December 8-15 
26 NOVEMBER 1985 

mon 9 
FILM: "King Lear" Engineering Auditoriwn 7,9pm 


ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition . ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection SPORTS: 
Woman's Basketball -Tennessee Men's Basketball-Oregon 
7:30 pm Zooltide '86 

--. ---. ------~ ­
tues 10 
ART: Africa. and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection NOONTALK: French Master Drawings 
The Snite Musewn of Art Stephan B. Spiro, chief curator 
SOPHOMORES: Sophomore Advisory Council Meeting Farley Hall 7pm 
Zooltide '86 

------------.­
ART,Am~ !Y.~SLc~~., Ch~~ 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1986 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition ART: French Master Drawings From the Permanent Collection SPORTS: Wrestling-at Valparaiso/Drake 
3:30pm SOPHOMORES: Christmas Party Check Publicity For Information 
SOPHOMORES: Christmas Fundraiser · Sale of Misletoe and Candy Canes in Dining Hall De·cember 11-14 
White Water Series Century Center 12 noon 
Zooltide 186 
Compiled by Karen 'Dettling 
· 

-~~-------­
-
1­

on other cc&mpusea---------, 

According to a recent survey for Demographic Studies, as of 1983, male college graduates· could expect to earn 39 percent more than men with only a high school education. This reverses· a trend in which male college stu­d~nts' economic advantage over high school grads reached a low of 21 percent in 1979. • 
The wave of complaints from students who said they had trou­ble-deciphering the accents and speech of their teachers seemed to crest last year as colleges which regularly assign grad students to te~ch lower-level courses literally b~gan to run out of native Ameri­ca11s to teach in some disciplines, like engineering and computer scfonce. In response to thesitua­tion, Georgia, Arizona State and most of the public colleges in Florida and Oklahoma have just given foreign-born teaching assis­tants tests on their English speak­ing abilities. Those who do not pass will be shuffied out of their teaching assignments. • 
Compiled by Paul Aiello 

embers · of Emory 

University's Delta Omega · Beta fraternity might face severe disci­plinary measures by the university for their latest "reverse panty raid" in which they deluged a sis­ter sorority house with soiled underwear.• 
At Texas A & M, health offi­cials decided to avoid a budget 
· deficit this year by eliminating gynecological services, including · Pap smears, gynecological exams and birth control pills. Outraged students blasted the decision; sug­gesting it reflected the morals of the administrators. Debbie Edwards, an A & M senior, told the University of Texas newspa­per, "If we can't get the pill...well....what do you think will happen?" 
In early October, Brown University parents and alums received a postcard from the Alumni Office reminding them to watch a TV promo for Brown 
, during the "Today Show."· In pro~ test of the action, editors of the Brown Daily Herald wrote an edi­torial stating that "although we're all proud as a · peacock about Brown's · network premiere, we question the University's decision to expend funds on a TV promo. Is someone worried that if the 
. ''Today" ratings aren't goQd, Br,own will be cancelled?!.' ' 
.· ...,. ... ·•'• .•'",-• •,•, .. ,' ' 

Paid Advertisement 
· We The People We need writers and hard workers for the Student Government Newsletter "We The People". All those stu­dents interested in working on this project please call Chuck Beretz at 239-7668. Look for our second issue on December 9th. ·  
Basketball Tickets Because all of the freshmen did not receive tickets to the basketball games, we have arranged with the ticket office for upperclassmen to sell the tickets which they will not be using to these freshmen. I. All interested upperclassmen should drop off the tickets they will not be using at Student Govern­ment Offices, 2nd Floor, LaFortune Student Center (between 8A:rvf and 4PM) 2. The tickets received by Student Government will be specially stamped. Tickets removed from book­lets and sold without this stamp and a valid ID will not be honored at the ACC. 3. The day before each game, all tickets will go on sale at the Rock Du Lac Record Store (Main Floor, LaFortune Center). Tickets will be sold only to those freshmen who waited in line at the ACC. (After 4PM they wiH be sold to any student on a first come, first serve basis). No checks will be accepted, please bring exactly four dollars. 4. Student Government cannot guarantee the sale of all tickets turned in. For those we do sell, we will mail the money to the person directly via campus mail. · 5. Those upperclassmen who participate in the program will automatically be entered into a raffie. After the last home game, winners will be drawn. First prize will be $100 towards purchases at the Notre Dame Bookstore, Second and Third prizes will be $75 and $50 respectively toward purchases at the Bookstore. For every ticket turned in, we will enter your name another time in the raffie. We would like to thank all the upperclassmen for helping out and we hope. the freshmen enjoy the games.  
Faculty· Course Evaluations We need hard workers who are interested in working on FCE's; This service will benefit students when they look toward scheduling for nexfyear! · Call Mike Mill~n at 239-7668 or stop by Student Government Offices. (2nd floor LaFortune.)  
~•Ethanol Phew"  Kevin Hurley  
Needed: Interested st_udents infighting 'the Ethanol Stench. - Please write letters to Kevin in care of Notre  
. . . .Student Government is formi~ an Activist. Group with the  Dame Student Government, Notre· Dame, IN  
local group "CEASE" and Saint Mary's.. We nee9, a chairman  46556.  
or committee members: Please sign up .for interviews in. Stu~  We are still accepting donations at 2nd floor  
·derit Government Offices; . 2nd floor LaFort~e, 6r call Bob  offices, LaFortune. for Kevin's l.ong-term care.  
McNamara at 239-7668:.: : ·  
As one Notre Dame student said "Notre Dame has a beautiful  ·. All interested in helping with a· Christmas fun­. draiser please call: Elisa Cullina at SMC 284­ 
campus, but, it· ~t.inks. ''. Here's ·your. _chance to make a ·differ~  5445.  
ence.  

BEST PLAYED BLUES 
ON CAMPUS 
by Rachel Nigro 

Friendship and Guitars ·Bind Band 

New Age Mothers and The American Dream: (from L to R) Jeff Morales, Michael O'Keefe, Brad Ray, Sal Vecchio. 
Imagine four young male col­lege students--soft spoken, laid­back, and a bit scruffy. Give each of them a guitar, throw in a banjo and a mandolin, then add a dash of Grateful Dead, Neil Young, 
.. some blue grass, and acoustic folk music and you've got "New Age 
__ Mothers and _ the American Dream," presently one of the hot­test bands on campus. 
Seniors Jeff Morales, Michael · O'Keefe, Brad Ray, and Sal Vec­chio have been playing together _for three · years. A little over a year ago they took their .act out to North Quad. Just fiddling around,· 
as they love to do, they were spotted and asked to perform a concert on the Fieldhouse Mail. "New Age Mothers" have been sought after ever since. 
Everybody needs to go on out 
and have some Jun. 
-Neil Young 

That could very weU be•· the . group's motto. They enjoy playing the blues and singing together as well.· "New Age Mothers" are so comfortable with themselves musically · that others' opinions won't make or break them. Their passion for music cannot be 
stressed enough and cannot help _ 
but infect their listeners as well. 
And they sound good too. 
Although friends in -Zahm 
Hall before ·· the group formed, they have certainly grown closer together in their music. The rap­port between the four is fun­loving and easy-going, which has caused them .in one short' year to become more confident and cohesive musically. 
"We're more critical of our­selves than when· we first started --· we don't like to -be sloppy on 
SCHOLASTIC 

stage," explains Sal. "Now we're more developed .individually and more precise." 
The precision shows, yet their laid back attitude remains; Although they save the musical experimentation for private rehearsals, they do not become too uptight about making little mistakes while performing for an audience. They just shrug and smile --after all, they are bringing what they love to others. If you like it, great, if you don't, no big deal. 
The reception from Notre Dame students has been encouraging. In the past few months the group has played at Chautauqua and at campus events. As to why the audiences like the blue grass and folk music style so much, Brad says, "It's not that we're unique -because· we're not breaking any ground. We're just paying attention to quality music." "New Age Mothers" 
agree that today's music is 
"stale," technical, and emphasizes 
·gimmicks and glitz and not the music itself. Sal explains that "the problem with music today is that it forgets what the blues are all about." 
Why .. they chose the name . "New Age Mothers and the American Dream" is a puzzle. Brad just shrugs and wants "other people to figure it out." Rumor has it however, that it · was the title of one of last year's term papers. As Sal said, "it sounded good, so we used it." 
The group is constantly expanding its repertoire and is currently venturing into original music. They hope to be able to i11c::orporate both . the. piano and the violin into their performances ,soon. 
Over Thanksgiving they'plan to go into the recording studio and make· some demo-tapes to send to bars and clubs in other cities. As to the group's plans for the future, Europe beckons. After graduation they would like to make enough money to "play in the streets of Paris" for a year. 
When asked why they would like to do this, Sal just laughs and exclaims, "Why not !" 
Exactly. 

Their confidence in each other is . amazing. "New Age Mothers and the American Dream" are together because they love the music, because they have fun playing together and because they love to · share their music with others. As long as it remains that way, they'll stay together, caught up in the pleasure and satisfaction of playing blue grass and Neil Young.• 
cartoon 

ALR\~Hf ! UoLD rt Rluli,.. fttEKE! 1)R.OP 1HOS~ Nv-rs, RAtSr YOVR. rAw~. AND Mos1 of: ALt,., WIPE TiJ.AT $/t..LY GRIN OFF YOUR FACE ~ WHA1 ~ , • H/\vE ioli .B£E N 
DR.INKING !f 
INSIDE §PORT§-----­
AN ATHLETE 

Pelle Lindbergh is dead at age 26. 
I have never seen Pelle Lind­bergh play hockey, · nor have I ever met him, but at the saine time, never has a death outside my family hit so-close to home. The goaltender of _the Philadel:­phia Flyers was declared brain dead not long after his super­charged Porsche· slammed into a brick wall in the early hours of November 10. 
There you have the facts, suitable for a newspaper lead and little else more. There will be · those who· will, nobly enough, remind -us that fast cars · are dangerous and even more so in the hands of an intoxicated driver. Lindbergh's veins con­tained a deadly mixture of blood and 0.24% alcohol, more than twice the legal level in the state of New iersey, where the accident occurred. It is hard in this day and age, but . let us put drunken driving behind us; for what tran­spired on the fatal early morning of November 10 goes beyond the 
, police and medical reports. \AW 
deaths are tragic, but there is something aboutthe fall of an ath­lete in full bloom which is espe­cial_ly poignant. 
The British poet A.E. Hous­man wrote a simple poem; "To an Athlete Dying Young." 
The time you won your town the race We chaired you through the market-place,· Man. and boy stood cheering by, And how we brought you shoulder high. 
The greatest sadness is that 

Lindbergh died in his prime. Last 
year, he became only the third 
goalie in the illustrious history of 
the Flyers to win forty . or more 
games in a season. This remark­
able performance earned him the 
Vezina Trophy, emblematic of 
goaltending excellence _. in the 
National Hockey League. Before 
his success in _the · NHL, 
Lindbergh was a member of the ­
1980 Olympic team for his native Sweden. When he left his -town-. · house at 1 a.m. for the _Coliseum 
JCHOLASTIC 

o·v1NG YOUNG 
After Dark, a team hangout, he left behind a fiance and his mother who was visiting from · Sweden. 
The man had a lot to live for just scant days ago, but today it is all gone, wiped out in a moment of misjudgement. 
To-day, the road all 
runners come, 
Shoulder high we bring 
you home 
And set you at your 
threshold down, 
· . Townsman of a 
stiller town. 

On the ice, the goalie is a sol­itary warrior in pads whose pre­cise judgement places him on the cutting edge of winning and .los:-· 'in:g. Fortunately, there is a team· with him ·and fifty-nine · other minutes in which to correct the sins of the misguided one. · Should he win the game, he is accorded glory and material wealth. Should he lose, only his glory is some­what diminished; but then again, it is only. a game. In _life, su_ccess ·· is 'not' ineasurecrin ·saves,· goals, and points. Once marked, life cannot be changed by a penalty flag or an arbitrating official. There will be no linesman to whistle interference · for Pelle Lindbergh this time. He gambled 
· that his driver's . instincts· would override the cloud of alcohol on his mind. 
Late that Sunday night, the Associated Press wire clattered: "With virtually no chance for 
· recovery, Philadelphia Flyer goal­
. tender Pelle Lindbergh remains brain dead..." How counter this runs to our sense of sport! Not only should sports heroes live on forever ( or at least fade into a ripe old age), but they should never, never he bounc;l by the constraints of time or hope. 
"With virtu,ally no chance for · recovery..." 
One of sports most valued cliches is that the game is never over until it is over and here we are presented with a case where the game is over before its time. Sports lore is filled with tales of 
· the • miracle comeback. There will 
... -·. . --.. 
be no comeback ' for Pelle Lind-
by Pete Pranica 

bergh. Time and hope both ended when his car -left the road and impacted against a wall, devastat­ing his complex spinal and brain stem construct, vital to human life. 
"... remains brain dead in a New Jersey hospital..." 
A full and active life filled with honor and glory has been prematurely snuffed out. There is no rationale for it. Words cannot express the waste of talent, the utter waste of life itself. Perhaps then, the death of Pelle Lind­bergh will serve as a haunting remind.er of the worth of our own lives. 
No, this is not just a sports column. It is, instead, a column about life. Without life sports have no meaning. In comparison to life, sports are trivial. 
Shoulder high we bring 
you home 
And set you at your 
threshold down 
Townsman of a 
stiller town. • 

GJrA IlJKIlNG c.APIBOlIJlf 
G[']tI[]E 80 9§ 
0 0 0 0 0 0 
0 0 0 
Abbie Hoffman was born and raised in the small town of Worcester, Massachusetts. In 1959, he graduated from Brandeis University with an BA in Psychology. He received a Mas­ters in Psychology from Berkeley, where he was first introduced to political activism. 
In 1964, Hoffman spent a summer in Mississippi, actively participating in the struggle for civil rights. Shortly afterwards, he moved to New York City, where he became involved in the anti­war movement. In 1968, he was arrested for demonstrating outside of the Democratic Convention in Chicago. That arrest culminated in the famous Chicago Seven Trial. He continued leading the protest against the war until 1974, when, facing a life sentence for selling· cocaine to under cover agents, he went underground. · 

During his exile, Hoff man travelled extensively in ·Central America. He also lived for four years in upstate New York under the alias of Barry Freed. While there, he successfully organized a protest against The Army Corps of Engineers and their Winter Navigation Plan, which would have destroyed several islands in the region The battle won, he resurfaced in 1980, serving one year in jail for his drug offense; Hoff man is currently touring the United States, lecturing on college campuses about his experiences in ·the 60's and in Central America. 

Scholastic interviewed Hoffman during his recent visit to Notre Dame. Following are excerpts from that interview. 
Why did you resurface in 1980 and return to public life? 
I'm middle age, so any action I do is motivated by complex rea­sons. There were personal rea­sons, because no one likes to ·be chased. Secondly, Barry Freed was becoming well known and· taking a lot of chances, and there 
were people catching on that he 
was Abbie. We were winning our 
battle against the Army Corps of Engineers. Reagan was coming in as president, and J envisioned an era that was going to be much tougher on anyone with a political background. Also, I had gone to see this movie The Big Fix. The plot hinged on where was Abbie Hoffman now that he's a fugitive; And they found him as a rich advertising executive in a man­sion in Beverly Hills, very cynical about the 60's. I was a fugitive, but I was a short order cook and was spending all of my time in political activism. In a sense, I was the same as I was in the 60's. I had a political responsibility, a responsibility to · history, -to my inner value structure, to what I believed in. 
Why did you decide to J0 oin _the lecture circuit? 
Well, I've always earned my living through writing and speak­ing, even during the I 960's. It's 
u 
An Interview with 
Abbie Hoffman 
0 
by Susan Yadlon 

also a place to reach students. In any social movement you need young people--they have the time, the energy, the new ideas, and they're impatient. You see, that's 
very important to be impatient. Most people are content to sit and wait for things to happen forever. 
· Young people, they want it now! And that's what you need. You need a certain amount of impati­ence or else social injustice, poverty, war, and discrimination will just keep persisting. 
From an outside perspective, how do you see campuses today? 
Campuses may _look conser­vative to you but they are chang­ing right now. I never thought I would see this happen in my life­time. You've got to understand that the students today are held up against the . students of the I 960's. The 1960's were a fluke. 
Students have always been more conservative than the general population in America. They've always been rich ladies -and gen­tlemen there learning how to be richer ladies and gentlemen, ivory tower concepts, don't get" con­
· cerned with the world out there, with the community out there, don't be interested in social prob­lems, ·· think about your career. And all your learning was within that context Pretty boring actu­ally when you think about it 
So over the last decade, when I can honestly say I didn't · trust anyone under 30, I did not look towards young people to 
SCHOLASTIC 

make any change.· I· mean I'd go to the campuses and speak but it was more or less all entertain­ment. If they asked any questions about the 60's, it was always about sex, drugs, rock and roll, and why did things fall apart. Now it's different. In the last 8 months, 68 universities have divested, 5,000 students commit­ted civil disobedience on campus, hundreds of thousands were in National Apartheid Day, the first national action called and organ­ized by students. 
But there's still a heavy conserva­
tive attitude out there. 
Yes, but when your're in a community that's basically conser­vative, that's apathetic, (because it isn't really conservative as ·much as it just doesn't care), you· don't need the m~jority to make 
. change. You're· talking about a minority when you talk about the group that makes social change. Always. There was a minority in the 60's. That's a mythology that my generation made the change. In 1968, the two most popular Americans among college students in this country were Richard Nixon and John Wayne . I968­that was the height of the I 960's! 
What is the legacy of the 1960's? 
In this context you learn two things that • are very important. First, you can fight city hall, you can fight the powers that be. That 
·is something that very few people in this country accept as a possi­bility. I've been a political activist for twenty years, no matter where· I go they all think that. Students in the 60's disproved that. They fought against the Pentagon, they fought against the war, they beat legal segregation. 
Now usually ·young people are supposed to be · seen and not heard. They are students. A stu­dent is someone who passes through this .. treadmill called a university chasing an elusive yet rewarding diploma.. The way to get that is to do what the adminis­
26 NOVEMBER 1985 . 
tration says--take this, do that, don't rock the boat, dress for suc­cess and you'll get it. Now in the 60's, that concept was challenged. Young people living on campuses said, " We're here 4 years. Four years, that's a long time. I'm a citizen of this community. And I don't have the right to vote here, to participate in decision making, to say how much taxes I pay to this community." They raised questions about what is the role of a "student" in a university and what is the role of the university in society. They broke the mold. That's the second thing--that young people can do it. You don't have to wait to get a degree. You don't have to become a profes­sional, a millionaire, own a house and three kids. You · can do it right now. . You already are a citizen and as a citizen you have rights and needs and those rights and needs involve participation in the decision making of the com­munity, whether it's the town of South Bend, the state of Indiana, the USA, or the world. 
"In any social move­ment . you need young people--they have the time, the energy, the new ideas, · and they're iinpatient.· 
So why do students . spend more time playing trivial pursuit instead of being active? 
There's nothing wrong with Trivial Pursuit. They should just be paying a little more attention to the questions that have some­thing to do with the world around them. . Not · the world as it's defined People Magazine. Because that world eventually becomes a little shallow. Now that may be why student activism is coming in. After all, . when the 60's hap­pened, we were· in rebellion with the late 50's, with the status seek­ers, with the Yuppies, and there were Yuppies back then, all they wanted to do is dress uo. !!et 
drunk, salute the flag, do what­ever their parents said. It. was a lifestyle and a v1s1on of America,this cool suburban shop­ping mall mentality, that we saw as unrewarding. We wanted some­thing more exciting, more involv­ing. And I'm not against that men­tality, only you must have it along 
· with some compassion for fellow humans, some sense of justice. 
What is your message to Notre Dame students? 
Well, they beat Navy last week, they can beat Army; The only way they can beat Army is to resist the draft, get ROTC off the campus, fight against the war that's coming in Central America, go back and read the real history of Vietnam, don't get caught up with that Rambo movie, it wasn't like that at all, and · it's very dangerous to entertain those fan­tasies. 
The best story about me is the one about Barry Freed. There was nobody; he was not famous· he didn't have any money. H; beat the Army Corps of Engineers out of a 20 billion dollar project by organizing very conservative people, farmers. I . succeeded, because first of all, I wanted to win. Secondly, I knew what I was doing. I've studied what motivates people, how people go from apathy to activism. It's the same way that people get you to buy a pet rock. It's knowing what gets people to do what they do. I want them to participate in the decisions around their commun­ity, paying attention to what's going on in the world, becoming active. You don't ·have to be famous. But you have to accept the idea that there is a science of organizing people, of developing a strategy, of building coalitions between you and people that are different from you. If you do that, you can win. You can't win all the time, but you can win enough. 
25 

A 


WITHOUT A KISS 
Four years have passed since Travis saw his wife, Jane, and his son, Hunter. In fact, four years have past since anyone has seen Travis. He has escaped from life or, shall we say, "his life," an:d has wandered aimlessly through the Texas terrain. After collapsing in a bar, he was reclaimed by his brother Walt, who reunites him· with his son in Los Angeles. 
What would cause a person to leave life, to leave his wife and son, to disconnect himself from the world? Love. Obsessive love. Possessive love. Destructive love. By the end of "Paris, Texas", Travis attempts to piece his life and family back together. But to do so he needs to reorder his priorities from himself to the one he loves. Obsessive, possessive love must become true love. 
Harry Dean Stanton, Nas­tassja Kinski, and Hunter Carson star in Wim Wenders' "Paris, Texas," a 1984 Grand Prize winner at the Cannes Film Fes­tival. This methodically paced . story creates more remarkable imagery in its travels from Texas to L.A. . and back to Houston, than in any of the unremarkable plot developments. 
The narrative becomes secondary to the emotion evoked as the·fiim climaxes with Travis's return to his ex-wife and his reve­lation of the events which caused his nomadic exodus. Who cares that for almost two hours in the cinema, the most exciting physical action on screen is...well I can't think of one. This is a love story. A love story without a kiss (Yes, N astassja Kinski in a film with no sex scenes). Instead, . "Paris, Texas" is an emotional film which 
requires  sympathy and  compas-,  
sion  in  order  to  understand  
Travis.  

The challenge of this film is to contemplate what goes through the mind of a woman trapped in a relationship, stranded for four years, then confronted by the man she loved...and might still love. Jane will never tell you how she· teels in this movie. It's up to you to read her emotions. Likewise, Hunter won't explain his ambivalent feelings about leaving his adopted parents in order to help reconstruct his old family. Neither will Travis explain his final decision at the end, a deci­sion which seemingly undermines the task .of finding his family again. . But to understand the powerful emotions involved, or to ponder -about them, is to under­stand "Paris,-Texas". 
If you add these emotions to both the cinematic beauty of Robby Mueller's photography and 
by Theodore E. Mandell 

lonely twang of Ry Cooder's gui­tar, you create the mood envisioned by Sam Shepard's screenplay. Shepard (also known for his acting roles in ."The Right Stuff' and "Country") creates, in the climactic scene, a . monologue by Travis which tells the story o 
"What would cause a · person to leave his wife 
and son, to disconnect himself from life? Love. 0 bsessive love." 
why he deserted his wife and son. We don't see the events re­enacted. They become more powerful as Travis simply tells them in story-like format. 
So what, you say? Picture him telling the story to his ex-wife who doesn't. know it is him talk­ing. She can't see him, and she doesn't recognize his voice.· Just imagine her emotions at the pre­cise moment she realizes she's listening to her long lost love. Think about it, then go see the 
. movie. 
"Paris; Texas" shows at 7:30, Fri. Dec. 6 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. MPAA rating: R. Running time: 145 minutes. • 
.--------------fiiction_____________ 
saturday niQilt dancebyJamesGrimes
Ihe giraffe is·in the ·truck, · · wc had anticipated, we blamed it · · Most days when I came out-upside down, and · the workmen · on the fact that we were new to ·side to see· how things were going, are almost done securing it for the the area. Have· faith, we told I couldn't· see Joe. But then after long ride to Springfield, Mas-each other; it will pick up soon, calling his name, I would hear sachusetts Science Museum, 2000 : but it didn't. As the weeks went him answer from inside the miles away. The four legs of the by and became years, the work-· elephant. Joe had cut a large slit giraffe are pointing straight up men quit and Joe was left alone. down the length of the elephant's into the air and the.animal is very We had no family here and the belly, and because of its tremen­dead. A good thing too, l told my neighbors were few and dous size he had to climb into its husband, because otherwise it indifferent. body. He seemed to live in there. wouJd have one hell of a stiff Day after day, for six inonths, Joe rieck. My husband Joe and the 1 remember the day that Joe would be inside the animal clean-others have been busy stuffing almoiit gave up. In the · morning, ing, preparing, and then filling the that giraffe for over a month in when a couple of birds were elephant with the foam rubber our taxidermy · studio. The Joe picked up_ for the Deriver Aviary and fiberglas~ he used to create Jonas Jr. Taxidermy Studio. Joe Society (the·, only regular work we the illusion of the elephant's being proudly burned those words into could count. on), the man told us alive. When the completion date the fox pelt on the front· door ten that they had 10st their govern-that Joe and . Davenport had years ago. ment grant .and they couldn't . agreed upon was a week away, 
afford to pay us anymore. But it Joe hardly slept or ate. He Being married to a taxider-wasn't the birds that make . me 
mist is pretty··:go·od,:except for the b . , h 1 h. wanted the elephant to be perfect; 
remem er, it s,t e e ep ant. .-: .. ·. it had a dance to go to. In the nail smell. Joe's studio. backs up to the 
south side of the house and when the same afternoon, Joe was of the elephant's left hind foot, he in the studio and l was in the carved Joseph Jonas Jr. He fin-
the wind comes sweeping down . 
from the Colorado Rockies, it's kitchen when I heard the. truck ished the elephant as one would all I can do to keep from gagging. pull · up. I went outside to see finish a work of art--he signed it. But now the giraff~ is stuffed and wh;:tt the noise waS, and Joe was Friday, the day before the money Joe · got from the already out .tllere talking to a man. Davenport would be back, the Museum w1°ll keep him in business The.re. was·. a large gray dump 1 h t t d ·ti· t t th
truck, and in the back was a pile e ep an s oo wai ng nex o e 
for a couple more months--we're house. The huge gray mass of still paying . off the loans and· covered witb a black plastic tarp. . ·animal was so life-like that it debts from before Joe and I came It· turned out that underO:eath began to attract attention. Cars 
to Colorado. After we were mar-the tarp was an elephant that had . would slow down as they passed ried, Joe tried _to make a living. died unexpectedly, at a nearby by. Joe had succeeded; the doing the only thing that lie knew zoo, and this man wanted· it ·elephant appeared to be alive. 
how to do: taxidermy. His father stuffed for the wildlife museum The next morning, I heardhad taught him·. and his brothers. that he owned. He introduced the truck that I had· heard six · how to clean, preserve, and stuff.·· himself as Gregory _Oswald months earlier. Davenport paidanimal s~ins.. Joe . said that he. , Davenport and asked if we would · Joe,· and some men who camewanted the animals to look like stuff his elephant, Joe h_ad Dave_n­with· Davenport lifted . · the they were . going· · to a . Saturday port dump the elephant ·next to · elephant into the back of thenight dance when . he . was ·done the studio dMr, It was the last " truck. The commission which Joewith them. They had to look the time that we saw him until the received was the start of his sue­best that they· could; His · father's elephant· was finished, six months . cess. Zoos began to call Joe, thenteachings and this . s·trange bit ·or later.. Seemingly out of nowhere, . 
wildlife societies and museums.
wisdom was what Joe had going this elephant fell into our lives. 
-They called from all over thefor him, and it didn't seem to. be. We di_dn't ask questions. I knew · country. Joe's words of wisdom· eno~gh .. ·. . how important this elephant was 
are paying off.· His animals are ·· .. At first when we weren't get-, for us and so did Joe. He worked 
ready to dance.• ting the amount of business that like a mad man; 







by Ian Larkin . 
. Ticket Contro.versy·. 
' ' 

·•Steams Freshmen . 
"We are N.D." is ·often heard echoing inside the A.C.C. · during
i:a:::11-home.· basketball games, but for . many freshmen· it . will· ·be · heard reverberating: through the , dorms · • on caJ]lpus. They will be watching.< the: Irish ;on television-' instead of inside the arena. •For two hundred · frosh, the famed: ND · sixth man· will · be in ·their rooms. ' Many · frcshmen·were disappointed when'· they' learned that space and fman-. · cfal ..... cons1cieratfon{·. w'ould·..• pre:: elude·, their getting .season: tickets. : Countless others ;•:~id · riot.·:eve(:· bother to ·submit tlieii applfo.atlons after it w~· announceci tha(tick­ets were sold out. In all, less thari half:,of the freshman,• class .~as .. allowedJo purchase tickets. . 
.. ·,:•·:·.· ·.-,·. 
·.~CHOLASTIQ 

Who really is N.D.? At Notre Dame's . freshmen orientation, newcomers are told that, along with the rest of the student body, they are "ND!" The Ticket Office is now telling freshmen that Saint Mary's students, season · ticket holder's and distinguished guests all are more ND. · 
Out of 11,345 seats available, 4327 go to students and of those, two hundred are distributed . to Saint Mary's students. Although Saint Mary's . is allowed only a small portion of ·the tickets, the number who actually · received them is· much higher for they are allowed to use the applications of Notre. . Dame's upperclassmen. The Ticket Office realizes this. Ticket Manager Mike. . Babinski 
· .. says, "I'm sure there are Saint 
·Mary's girls that used upperclass app's of, Notre Dame kids. In reality, I'm sure that we will have more than our fair share of Saint Mary's girls in the arena." Saint ·. Mary sophomores~ . juniors, and . · seniors were permitted to . buy
u . . . . ' 

tickets before. Notre Dame fresh­men. They not only received· the same privilege as Not~e Dame stu­dents, but also· had ·• priority over freshmen. Essentially, over two­hundred Saint Mary's students were allowed to buy season tick­ets while over two hundred· Notre Dame students were turned away; 
The · other · seven thousand tickets were distributed among the faculty, team, visiting teams, and season ticket holders, with the · majority of them going to the . · lifetime season · · ticket holders. These tickets had· been sold long before freshmen even arrived on 
26 NOVEMBER 1985 
campus. Revenue is · the reason behind so many of the tickets going to the general public. Those seats fetch a price more than twice what students pay and as Babinski says, "We rely on the money we bring in from our foot­ball stadium and basketball pro­gram to pay for the whole Ath­letic Department." 
The outlook is bleak for freshmen .· who did not receive· their season tickets. The Ticket Office has said. that no more sea­son tickets will be distributed, but they will off er any extra tickets that become available if some visiting teams do not use their foll allotment. Even then they will not be sold exclusively · to freshman. They will be sold on a first come,. first serve basis to any student, Saint Mary's included. How many visiting teams won't use their full allotment? Freshman might be able to see perennial powerhouses like Yugoslavia, St. Joseph's, or Hofstra. This is the only plan to · try to accommodate the freshmen, although the _Ticket Office . • suggests that freshman keep their' ears open for available upperclass tickets. · 
. Babinski · tells · disheartened freshmen, "You'll get your chance, it is not like you'llbe shut out for your whole four years here." ff there is a solution to the problem, it won't be realized this year. The reason for such a short supply is that the ticket offic.e tried to predict the demand for this year's tickets· and they said there was no way to expect th..'.e overwhelming demand that occurred. · 
·  "Less  than  half  the  
freshman  .class  was  
allowed  to·  purchase  
tickets"  

The Ticket Office is. consid­ering a new ticket distribution method, but there are no concrete ideas as of yet. The method 
currently in use is definitely less · .. than satisfactory. As one fresh­
. man, Eric Bellafronto, quipped, "The ticket process stinks worse · than ethanol." There must be a 
. \ 
more efficient way, such as a spring registration or a lottery sys­tem. When I inquired as to why all students who want tickets can not receive · them, Bobinski said, · "That's a real.. naive idealistic view; practically speaking we just can't do that. Athletics these days, and unfortunately probably to an extreme, has becorrie a big · business. If Notre Dame wants to compete like it does and stay in the forefront of all these sports, we have to continue to do these things and support ourselves." 
The whole controversy appears to be another case of col­lege athletics growing too big for the college community. Given Notre Dame's stated position that collegiate ·athletics are primarily for the students, some steps must be taken to restore student acces-· · sibility to the Notre Dame basket­ball team. As another winter set­tles in, a basketball season of tremendous promise is upon us. Many freshmen, however, have been rudely introduced to · the 
•• possibility that Notre Dame's unique athletic tradition of stu­dent participation and school 
· spirit is playing second fiddle to big business. And that's when Notre Dame athletics begin to lose their uniqueness. • 

1------------compuite:ir co:irne:ir -----------, 
VISIONS OF­,,....,...., IF-JF-I SONS'' 
Almost nothing stirs up fan­tasies of the space-age like the robot. Robots are somewhat like tofu vegetables --everyone has distinct feelings· about them, .but few people · know exactly what they are. Often robot conjures up images. of an oversized tin·. can with a funny voice and a thousand gadgets. In actuality, a robot, as we know it today, is not this at all. 
So what is a robot, in the most basic terms? A robot is a device that performs me.chanical manipulations. This device may be controlled directly by a per­son, like an extension of the human· body, but more often the device is controlled by a com­puter. A robot has much in com­mon with a· computer printer. A robot may also incorporate sens­ing · devices, in which case it serves as an input, as wen as an output device. ­
Robots have a number . of features that make them suited for many types of work. Because they have the capacity to perform the same exact task repeatedly without growing tired or bored, robots are ideal for production line tasks. 
Another advantage is the capability of robots to work in an environment that would prove unpleasant or hazardous to pea~ ple, such as areas with high levels of heat or radiation. Robots are used to fight fires and to clean up inside the Three Mile Island power plant. 
Also, it is obviously better to· lose a robot than a human life, so robots can be sent to do_ risky. jobs, such as defusing bombs. Finally, robots can be built large enough to handle loads that would be too he'avy for humans, thus providing muscle for the job. 
Robots, however, have not reached the advanced levels of ability portrayed in · "The Jet'­sons." Unfortunately, they do have limitations. The computer cannot think, and therefore we . are going to haveto tell the robot not only what we want it to do, but also exactly how to do it. This 
can  take . on  new  dimensions  of  
complexity  when  applied  to  
robots.  

_.. · Let us take· as an example, 
· the pouring of a cup of tea. This seems like a simple operation to us, ·yet in reality it takes a high degree of coordination between many different · muscles in ' the hand, arm, even the back and · legs. Furthermore, something called "feedback" is involved. · 
by Louis Fuka 

Feedback is the capability to sense how something is, compare that with how it should be, and make-necessary ..corrections. Coordination · and .feedback are things that people acquire . at a very young age. Exactly how they are learned is· poorly under­stood and difficult to implant in a robot. 
Another thing that humans 

have that is hard to give to robots ·is the ability to learn· by doing. Remember how difficult it was to drive a car the firsttime, and how easy it is now? People· have the innate ability to learn· to do these things. A robot does not have such · a sophisticated ability to 
learn from experienc·e .. 
People can also respond .·· to changes in '· their environinent better-thari a robQt.. can. Going back to our tea pouring problem, suppose we had moved the cup a few inches· to one side. A person would note tlie change and adjust to meet the 'situation. A robot might keep• pouring -the tea in the same spot, resulting in. a mess. These weaknesses are being worked on, . and inuch progress has been n1ade, but the day when a robotis the equal of a persbn: in these areas is still far off. • 


-1-~:;__+-~--1--.,__-+--+-----,f-'--+--1---1--+----1-'-+-t---+--1------,...--il "Robots are ,_ -+--1-----1--1---1----+--1---+--1r---1---t--+--+---+--.
.f---c-t--+--+--t---ttsomewhat like tofu e­-1------1---1----l------1------1--+---l----+---+-+---+---+---+__,;._+---t---+---+--t---11 vegeta bles--everyon e _ -1-----1-------1--1--1----1----1---1---1------1---+...-1---1----1---+---+---+---+-~ has dist in ct · feelings _ 
about them, but few 
-+--1-----1---1---1-----1---1--1---1--+----t--+--+---+--1,---1---t--+--+-------people kn ow exactly e-
what they are." .... 
paid advertisement 
Rentbrandt Engagentent Calendar from The Snite Museum of Art 

• 
Handsome 52 week appointment calendar 

• 
Contains 54 quality full-page reproductio~s of Rembrandt's Old and New Testament etchings from The Snite's Feddersen Collection 


· • Ready-to-mail gift box 
• SPECIAL GIFT OFFER, $9.95 plus tax 
Also available at the museum: The Snite Museum of Art Bookstore hours: Tuesday-Friday 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Posters at reduced rates 
Saturday-Sunday 1:00 p.m. -4:00 p.m. 
a selection of 12 Christmas cards 
Thursday evenings until 8:00 p.m. Museum publications · Closed on Mondays 

'. 
;_· 
! 
final wo:irJ---------­
When you've stayed up all night studying everything looks a little harsher and brighter the next day, like a movie made on overexposed film. Then there's the tingling in your forehead, and the feeling that you're always fal­ling backwards. Stupid thing to do. Worth it, though, I smirk to 
. myself as I crunch across the grass outside P.E., worth every ounce of Diet Coke, every stiff vertebrae, every new wrinkle around my eyes. I clutch tighter at the folder carrying the night's work, much the same way the trees seem to claw at the dingy grey November sky. It's· worth seeing another sunrise and to be able to leave tonight instead of tomorrow, to get home that one d,ay earlier for Thanksgiving. 
The checker at the dining --hall is more bundled up at her · station thari I was for the walk · over. She knows me by now---not so many people show up for . breakfast on days like this. It's early enough to get an omelette or scrambled eggs, but I deserve a treat; two jelly donuts and a table to myself accompany my coffee. · Familiar faces are scattered 
around the dining hall. We break­fast people stick together. Each face told me that they were as anxious as I to get home. 
Last year, home beckoned attractively as many of us spent our first holiday in a foreign country. Thanksgiving abroad is especially tough. Phil and Kerry, for example, were studying in Italy and skied the Matterhorn on Thanksgiving morning. Laura was watching the inflation of Macy's balloons in New York. Mike and Tom were eating the big meal at the American Military Hotel_ in Tokyo. But this year, senior year, all are homeward bound. Even Bob was going to spend twenty-four hours on a bus to get where he needed to be. 
A year ago, I'd just gotten back to London from ten days travel on the Continent, and it felt like coming home. Thanksgiving 
in England: sixty expatriate Domers and a few friends and relations feasting on all the tur­keys in the Greater London area, cramped but. festive in the base­ment of Cedar Lodge, the guys' dorm. 


Mark came over to visit that Thanksgiving, a baby brother . grown into a traveler. When he stepped off the plane in Heathrow so big and bearded and beautiful and American I knew where home really was. The house I learned to walk in, the dogwood tree outside my window, the yard where my dog lives.: 
I hope to graduate this spring; I do not know where I will be next Thanksgiving. I may not get home, or I may be a visi­tor making do again. Can . one's youth be measured in such a way, like moving from the kids' card table to the grownups' Thanksgiv­
ing table? 
Soon we go where we will, or even stay here, to celebrate the harvest, the survival and renewal of life. Every pioneer who strug­gled to travel to this untamed land and wrought out a life of 
· progeny is remembered by the feast. Remembrance of those who have gone before and hope for those who come after we are gone sanctifies the simplest bread into a feast of Thanksgiving, and dtaws us all to a truer home.• . 
SCHOLASTIC 






