

Outward Bound is more than a trip of high adventure. 
Its discovering yourself. Learning thatyou're better than you think you are. 
And finding out how to work with others. Come join us on a 3-week trip of excitement and self-challenge. You may come back a better you. 
Bang in there! Sendfor more information: 
Name 
Street 
City State Zip 
School 
Check the courses that interestyou: 
Canoeing Desert White Water Expeditions Rafting Wilderness 
Sailing Backpacking 
Cycling Mountaineering 
Outward Bound, Dept. CH. 384 Field Point Rd. Greenwich, CT 06830 Phone toll free (800) 243-8520 
No experience necessary Outward Bound admits students ofany sex, race.color and national or ethnic· origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available. 
Outward Bound" 
The course that never ends 

To The Editor: 
To the Editor: 

Thank you for your probing com­ments concern'ing the lack of ex­pHcit Christian witness on campus ("The Last Word," Feb. 1981). Here is possibly an additional explana­tion. On the one hand, ND students and staff seem highly achievement­motivated and career-oriented with a very rational mind-set which emphasizes "means-goals planning." This same emphasis on mapping out and taking charge of destiny is both rewarded and practiced by the Uni­versity in its drive towards academic excellence and resource sufficiency. 
On the other hand, faith implies inherently less human control over tomorrow and encourages an attitude of openness to God's subtle hand in fashioning that future. This walking and making room for His initiative is buttressed by a belief that man's best view of his own potential falls measurably short of God's hope for him. As a result, the ambiguity and insecurity implicit in the life-style of faith are often difficult to recon­cile with the "take-charge" skills and attitudes so embedded in the competent and successful, who by definition leave little to serendipity because they have flourished so well through their own efforts and fore­sight. Thus, integration of the sacred and the secular both) at the individ-. ual and institutional levels remains partial. 
Sincerely, 
Jerry McElroy Assoc. Professor, Dept. of Economics 

Editor 
Chuck Wood 
Managing Editor/Business Manager Jim Sommers 
Production Manager 
Clay Malaker 

Layout Editor 
Tina Terlaak 

Copy Editors 
Donna Teevan 
Daniel Moore 

Art Director 
Michael Gazzerro 

Photography Editor 
Eileen O'Meara 

News Editor· 
Andrew Zwerneman 

Fiction Editor 
Mark Traverso 

Culture Editor 
Ken Scarbrough 

Sports Editor 
Tom O'Toole 

St. Mary's Editor 
Mary Pigott 

Distribution Manager 
Joe Pheifer 

Staff 
Cathy Chopp, Denise Grether, Lois Ken­nedy, Bill Kolb, Teresa Reichert, Mike Zusi, Mark Sullivan, John Davenport, Dan Keusal, Mary Link, Shelly Hendrickson, Lizann Welk, Jeny Kucenic, Shea Watkins, Susan de Carvalho, Barbara Bridges, Anne Barsanti, Ed Kelly, Peg Boeheim, Sonya Stinson, Mike Villano, Angela Adamson, Jane Zwerneman, John Guido, Elizabeth Blakey, M. Kierzkowski, Nancy Kierzkow­ski, Tom McSteen, Dan Ferris. 

Photographs: 
p. 
7, 15, 30, 31, Michael Patrick Mulligan; 

p. 
19, 20, 21, 40, Eileen Anne O'Meara; 

p. 
3, Bob Wade; p. 4, Pete Romzick; p. 8, Giselle Batacan; p. 9, Michael Wood; p. 16, Bob Bontempo; p. 2, Susan Zwerne­man; p. 28, 29, Angela Adamson; Cover, Franciose Poinsatte and Scholastic Ar­chives. 


Illustrations: 
p. 26, 27, Eileen O'Meara; p. 26, Mark Fisher; p. 17, Pat Byrnes; p. 12, 13, Steve Brown; p. 23, Franciose Poinsatte; p. 32, 33, Genevieve O'Connor. 

Advisory Board 
Elizabeth Christman, Mario Pedi, James Robinson, Doug Kinsey 


SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 122, No. 8, April 1981 Notre Dame, IN 
FEATURES 
2 Vatican II and the Church Today Andrew]. Zwerneman 3 The Philosophy of Pope John Paul II and 
the Church's Salvific Mission to the World Kevin ]. Rossiter 6 Vatican II: The Historical Vision Robert Gilbert 8 Equal Rites for Women? 
An Orthodox Perspective Madonna Christensen 9 The Ordination of Women: In Light of the Death and 
Resurrection of Jesus Christ Mary Patricia Hackett 12 Spectator or Participant? Steve Brown 14 Science and the Edge of Belief Tom Sea.sly 16 Christian Roles in t he Business World Rich Preuss 18 Social Justice:An Active Witness to the Love of God Kay Tepas 20 Hegira Eileen O'Meara and 
Mike, Gazzero 22 With Humility and Piety, Composer Roger Dickerson Serves His City, Students, and the Human Spirit Ken Scarbrough 

REGULARS 
26 Music/Mark McMahon: A Marked Man Among Notre Dame Netters Tom O'Toole 
30 Gallery Mike Mulligan 
32 Poetry/Home Michele Strohman 
Awaiting Sunshine 

Ruins Jeannette Decelles 
Dissolution of an Intellect 
Sunset Genevieve O'Connor 
Empty Reflections Patricia Lott 
34 Perspective/Ideas, Events, and Four Years of Change Dan Moore 
40 Last Word Chuck Wood 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1981 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
APRIL, 1981 
Vatican II and the Church Today 
In his book Sources of Renewal, Pope John Paul IT explains the main focus of the Second Vatican Council. He maintains that the Council Fa­thers were primarily concerned with the question: "What does it mean to be a believer, a Catholic and a member of the Church?" This issue of Scholastic is dedicated to enrich­ing the answer to that question. 
As Catholics in the 1980s we are still striving to implement the teach­ings of Vatican II in 'the Church, and we are constantly attempting to give the world a positive presentation of the faith. Therefore, we need to clearly understand our identity and participation in •the Body of Christ. 
Alongside the excitement and ex­pectation since Vatican IT, there has been much turmoil and disunity in the Church. Many polarized factions have arisen and have done much harm 1o the positive, constructive work of .the Council. While some · Catholics begrudge the enrichment of faith that Vatican IT has initiated, ; others are disgruntled, because the Church has not evolved into what they want Her rf:o be. Many other camps of disillusionment and criti­cism have also voiced their com­plaints. Yet, few Catholics seem to have really grasped the true, genuine message of the Council. 
It is no surprise that since the Second Vatican Council, attacks have been issued against the Church (par­ticularly against the popes). Any­time there's a great outpouring of the Holy Spirit, the Church can ex­pect challenges and suffering. After Pentecost, for example, the early Christians underwent terrible perse­cutions, including the martyrdom of Stephen who was stoned by his own "Brethren" (Acts 7:2) for preaching the truth. Similarly, Pope Paul VI bore 1he suffering of being attacked by his own people. In this post-Vati­can IT era, we must constantly ·seek greater peace within the Church and rid -the Body of scandalous hostility and disunity. 

by Andrew Zwerneman 
As we respond to God's self-revela­tion, and as we strive to be conscious, effective Catholics, it is helpful to follow the examples of Catholics who have succeeded iri bringing the Gos­pel message to mankind. The Church has been blessed in recent years with many outstanding individuals whose loyalty to the truth of Christian faith and whose commitment to God and man have resulted in triumphant and fruitful apostolates. Several of these Catholics are well-known to the pub­lic; for example Dorothy Day, Lech Walesa, and Mother Theresa. 
In her lifetime, Dorothy Day brought dignity to the jobless and the poor in America. Lech Walesa, the leader of Solidarity, has brought leadership, strength, unity and jus­tice to the workers in Poland. Mother Theresa has brought care, healing, and decency to the sick and dying in India. All three of these Catholics have shown tremendous, unfailing loyalty to the truths of faith and have given themselves wholly to the service .of Christ and His Church. In our attempt to under­stand what it means to be a be­liever, we would do well to emulate the willingness to sacrifice that these 
great lovers of humanity have dem­
onstrated. The social worker and the 
businessman, the philosopher and 
the scientists, the priest, and the 
architect all must respond to God 
with the same self-abandonment that 
these exemplary Catholics have 
shown. 
As we continue to understand what it means to 'be a believer today, and as we strive to implement Vatican II in the Church, let us find direction and inspiration in the word of Pope John Paul II's encyclical letter, Dives in Miseri­cordia: "In continuing the great task of implementing the Second Vatican Council, in which we can rightly see a new phase of the self-realization of the Church -in keeping with the epoch in which it has been our destiny to live -the Church herself must be constantly guided by the full consciousness that in this work it is no't permissible for her, for any rea­son, to withdraw into herself. The reason for her existence is, in fact, to reveal God, that Father who al­lows us to 'see' Him in Christ. No matter how strong the resistance of human history may be, no matter how marked the diversity of contem­porary civilization, no matter how great the denial of God in the human world, so much the .greater must be the Church's closeness to that mys­tery which, hidden for centuries in God, was ·then truly shared with man, in time, through Jesus Christ." 
Hopefully, this April issue of Scholastic will enlighten and hearten our efforts as Catholics to bring the Church to self-realization and to. :re­veal the truth of God's salvation to all mankind. 

Andrew Zwerneman is the News Editor for Scholastic. 

SCHOLASTIC 
_I 

The Philosophy of Pope John Paul II and the Church's Salvific Mission to the World 
Pope John Paul II is unique in the history of the recent papacy in that he had established himself as a pro­fessional philosopher before accept­ing the role of bishop of Rome and leader of the world's 724 million Catholics. While serving on the fac­ulty of the Catholic University of Lublin he helped develop what has come to be called Lublin Thomism, a dynamic Christian philosophy which combines the phenomenological meth­od with a highly original interpreta­tion of the metaphysics of St. Thomas Aquinas. Cardinal Wojtyla contributed work iri:"the area of phil­osophical anthropology, a branch of philosophy in continental thought which investigates the notion of the human person. He has argued that the fundamental issue in question among competing philosophical views is the nature of man. 
The guiding principle in Cardinal Wojtyla's writing is that man is re­vealed through his actions. A careful analysis of human action is under­taken in order to . come to a clearer understanding of the various com­ponents of the human person. Two important aspects or components of human action in his model are con­sciousness and efficacy. Conscious­ness refers to the capacity in each person to experience reality, and it is a passive aspect .of the person. Efficacy refers to the capacity in each · person to act upon reality through· an exercise of the will, and it· is an active aspect of the person. Consciousness and efficacy are united in human action, for how we choose to act is closely related to what we know about the alternatives set be­fore us. When we act we translate these choices ·into practice by con­sciously exercising the will. Cardi-nal Wojtyla then continued to ground his .rather complex analysis of the human person in an ontology, root­ing the person in the real world. He achieves this by using Gabriel Mar­cel's . concept of incarnate being, stressing that the various subjective aspects of the human person are in­volved through the body with the material world. Human persons are both actors upon the world and in­carnate within it. 

John Paul Ir's pel'.sonalism is ex­istential in its character, focusing on the problem of the human condition and the danger of depersonalization in modern society. It is certainly the case that the problem of the human condition has always been the deep­est and most noble cause of anxiety 
by Kevin Rossiter 

in man, and it may be that more than any other age ours has felt the burden of man's restless longing for meaning. In a homily delivered on August 5, 1979, Pope John Paul II demonstrated his awareness of the need to address this important prob­lem which plagues the modern world when he said:1 
In our tiriles, unfortunately, scien­tific rationalism and the structure of industrial society, characterized by the iron law of production and consumption, have created a men­tality closed within a horizon of temporal and earthly values which take away all transcendent mean­ing from man's life. Atheism rampant in theory and 

APRIL~ 1981 
practice; the acceptance of an evo­lutionistic morality no longer tied to the solid and universal princi­ples of natural and revealed moral law, but to the ever-changing mor­als of history's emphatic exalta­tion of man as the autonomous author of his own destiny and, at the opposite extreme, his depress­ing humiliation to the rank of use­less passion, cosmic error, absurd pilgrimage of nothingness in an unknown and mocking universe; all these have caused many people to lose the meaning of life and have driven the weakest and most sensitive to fatal and tragic forms of escapism. 
Man has a profound need to know if it is worth being born, living, struggling, suffering and dying; if it is important for him to commit himself to some ideal, superior to material and contingent interests, if, in a word, there is a .reason 

which justifies his earthly exis­tence. 
This, then, remains the essential question: to give a meaning to man, to his choices, to his life, to his history. 
The Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World, Gau­dium et Spes, observes that the host of discords which fill our world are rooted in the warring of the many factions within each person. This is to say that the confused state of the current world situation is simply an expression of man's existential an­guish, which is characterized by each person's inability to reconcile the various components of his self into a peaceful whole. Many phenomenolo­gists have made this same observa­tion and have attempted to discover the source of the disequilibrium. Pope John Paul II has sought to re­mind us that the Church's salvific m1ss10n to the world is to satisfy this ·hunger for wholeness in each person, to liberate man from the brokenness of the human condition. 

A difficulty which arises as the Church labors to achieve this end is that of maintaining the delicate balance between theocentrism and anthropocentrism. An authentically Christian humanism must recognize the intimate relationship between these two perspectives, honoring both the dignity of the human person and the unconditioned fullness of the Creator's being and goodness. For the Church can deny neither man nor God. The goal of any humanism, of course, is a better life for man. The greatest philosophers of the classical world recognized that phi­losophy is not a game of theorizing about theories, but a life of serious, orderly inquiry conducted with the hope that it would bring man to a better and happier life. Christian philosophers assert that happiness for man is found within the life of the Church, where each individual experiences a personal relationship with God who reveals himself in the person of Jesus Christ. We need only recall St. Bonaventure's metaphysi­cal journey toward God and how it is related to the interior pilgrimage toward the self. His theocentric proj­ect had an anthropocentric concern. For knowledge of God can only en­rich our understanding of what it means to be a human being, since it is the Creator who securely grounds us in our nature. 
It is my belief that since the hope of humanism is to embrace wisdom, all human inquiry should be orien­tated toward some Absolute, which for Christians is the God who is the source and goal of all creation. Meta­physics, in particular, should be con­ducted with this vision in mind, and it is precisely in the refusal of the "death of God" thinkers to direct their concerns toward an Absolute that their models seem to fail. An exclusively anthropocentric approach which tends to deny the divine will ultimately strips man of all dignity and hope. 
The need to balance the theocen­tric and anthropocentric aspects of the Church's salvific mission follows from the persqn of Jesus Christ, in whom the two are united. For the loving act of his Incarnation reveals the Father to us, and through it he unites himself to each and every human being and reveals man to man. For this reason, as the Church works to bring the gospel of salva­tion to a troubled world, she looks 
4 
SCHOLASTIC 


continually to the person of Jesus Christ in whom both God and man are revealed. These two aspects of the Incarnation should not be sepa­rated, for the revealing of the full­ness of humanity to man must draw us eventually to a knowledge of God the Father, who is the source and goal of man's being. In his most re­cent encyclical letter Pope John Paul II wrote: 2 
The more the Church's mission is centered upon man-the more it is, so to speak, anthropocentric-the more it must be confirmed and ac­tual.:zed theocentrically, that is to say, be directed in Jesus Christ to the Father. While the various cur­rents of human thought both in the past and the present have tended and still tend to separate theocentrism and anthropocen­trism, and even set them in oppo­sition to each other, the Church, following Christ, seeks to link them up in human history, in a deep and organic way. 
It is interesting to note how Pope Paul II's philosophical works shed light on the event of the Incarnation, in which God and man are united. Out of love for sinful man, God be­came incarnate, taking on a real body within. the material world. By doing this he became an actor in our history, revealing himself to us in his actions. His life efficaciously trans­formed the state of man, showing us the way to the Father and granting to us the fullness of life. By his death upon a cross and his resurrec­tion from the dead he freed man from bondage to sin and death and restored man to God and to mankind. Jesus Christ, the bread of life, is the answer to man's existential needs, for he gives meaning to human ex­istence by revealing both God and man to man. He brings meaning to man's choices and history by restor­ing mankind to God through his re­demptive acts. Jesus Christ liberates man from the brokenness of the human condition, making it possible for all people to have the freedom to live in .the more fully human way. 
This is the message of good news which the Church must bring to our age. The Church, as she always has, engages herself in her mission while being sensitive to the peculiar needs of each age. So the Church must seek to be conscious of particular .ways in which our times are experiencing the burden of sin and death. Pope John Paul II addresses the special needs of the modern world when he writes:3 
APRIL, 1981 
Are we of the twentieth century not convinced of the overpower­ingly eloquent words of the Apos­tle of the Gentiles concerning the "creation (that) has been groan­ing in travail until now" and "waits with eager longing for the sons of God" (Romans 8:19), the creation that "was subject to fu­tility" ? Does not the previously unknown immense progress ­which has taken place especially in the course of this century-in the field of man's dominion over the world itself reveal-to a pre­v'iously unknown degree -that manifold subject "to futility"? It is enough to recall certain phe­nomena, such as the threat of pollution of the natural environ­ment in areas of rapid industrial­ization, or the armed conflicts con­tinually brea:king out over and over again, or the prospectives of self-destruction through the use of atomic, hydrogen, neutron and similar weapons, or the lack of respect for the life of the unborn. The world of the new age, the world of space flights, the world of previously unattained conquests of science and technology-is it not also the world "groaning in travail" (Romans 8:22) that waits with "eager longing for the reveal­ing of the sons of God"? 
To this world the Church must joy­fully bear the gospel of salvation. A problem which must next be ad­dressed, however, is that of deter­mining how the truth of Christian belief can best be communicated to the world. 
Soren Kierkegaard had a theory about how the truth is best com­municated, and 'it can be called a theory of dialectical iteration. Dia­lectical iteration occurs when a per­son takes an idea he knows cogni­tively and then translates it into ac­tion, where other persons can ex­perience it. He incarnates the idea, so to speak, and makes it available to others. Kierkegaard drew this model, no doubt, from the prologue to John's gospel, and his observation regarding the revealing nature of ac­tion, of which the Incarnation is a paradigm case, is the very same ob­servation as that made by John Paul 
II. We must enflesh our ideas with our lives in order to reveal them to others. We best proclaim what we believe, therefore, in what we do. We must iterate the idea by repeating it in action, where the truth of the idea can be revealed to others. We involve the idea in the real world through our incarnate actions. 
To use John Paul II's term'inology, we take the truth which we know, the aspect of reality which we have experienced within consciousness, and then choose to act in accordance with that truth. With the act of the will which follows from this choice, the body engages in action and gives the idea a share in the person's incarnate being. Like Kierkegaard, John Paul II asserts that human persons are not radically shut off from each other, as has .been the view among a number of philoso­phers in the modern period. Persons are capable of being deeply affected by each other, unlike the windowless Leibnizian monad. For human per­sons are grounded in being, they have bodies, and because of this common attribute we can both ex­perience and affect each other. 
Similarly, the church is conscious of the truth of the gospel of salva­tion, of the meaning brought by Christ to human existence. Her mem­
bers now need to choose to proclaim this message to the world which eagerly awaits it. The Church must fulfill her salvific mission to the world by enfleshing the truth of the redemption in both the sacraments and in the actions of all believers. It is the great responsibility of all the faithful to both profess and incar­nate the good news, and this will in­volve a strong commitment on the part of each man and woman to follow the leadership and teachings of the Church, as she is attentive in each age to the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. As John Paul II has 
I

said, all of ·us must engage ourselves 'I 
!

in responding to the teachings of the Second Vatican Council, which has drawn the laity into a richer con­sciousness of their involvement in the church's salvific mission, and into a more active role within the world. . 
FOOTNOTES 

1Pope John Paul II, "Only Christ Gives Meaning to Man's Life and His­tory." L'Osservatore Romano, N. 34(595), August 20, 1979, p. 3. 
2Pope John Paul II, Dives in Mi.s­ericordia (St. Paul Editions, 1980), p. 8. 
3Pope John Paul II, Redemptor Hominis (Washington: United States Catholic Conference, 19.79), p. 23. 
Kevin Rossiter i.s a senior in Philoso­phy. Starting in the fall, he will be studying at the Angelicum in Rome. 
-------------•--------~------­

The second Vatican Council was, and still is, of great significance. It presented to Catholics and to the world a new vision of, and for, the Church. All members of the Church, all Christians, are called on by Vati­can II to bring to full realization in their lives what it means to be a member of the Church, a follower of Christ. It is fundamentally con-one, is intended to be representative of the whole universal Church, and, as such, is more authoritative. Prob­lems facing the Church at particular points in history, usually in some type of crisis situation, are addressed so that a unified and coherent pro­gram may be adopted and followed by those in positions of pastoral re­sponsibility. In Church history, coun-




Vatican II 
doctrines had been previously ac­cepted in the Church, but some peo­ple saw their infallible promulgation as inopportune and antagonistic to­ward Protestants.. While it is not true to say that Vatican II repu­diated either Trent or Vatican I, it did signify a new attitudinal dis­position on the part of· Rome to­wards itself, the separated Protes-
The Historical Vision 
trary to the spirit of Vatican II to leave this part of its implementation to others only, be they popes, sisters, bishops or priests. 
In the realm of princes and kings, Little men '[YUll the strings. But in the real world of Councils and 
Popes, The Holy Spirit knows the ropes. -an anonymous Renaissance poet 
Living more than fifteen years after its close, many students today probably have little idea of what the pre-Vatican II Church was like, and have only vague conceptions of what transpired at the Council, what led up to it, and what it means for Catholics today. This article is pre­sented in order to provide a brief introduction to the historical impor­tance and major themes of Vatican II. 
Councils are composed of popes, cardinals, bishops, theologians, and observers. An ecumenical council, rather than a provincial or regional cils have played a definitive role re­garding the formulation of official doctrine, discipline and direction of the faithful. Although it has hap­pened in the past, when the Church was less separate from the state, that a secular ruler would call a council and even participate in it, ordinarily councils can only be con­vened by, and must be confirmed by a pope. The pope and bishops pro­mulgate their decisions at a number of different levels of importance, and can invoke the supreme magisterial authority in the Church. Vatican II occupies the place of the twenty-first and most recent ecumenical council. 
.The Council of Trent, 1545, insti­tuted the Counter-Reformation where Rome began its own reform of the Church, in some ways similar to, but also quite counter to the Protes­tant Reformation started by Martin Luther. This major division in the Western Church became even more crystallized as a result of the ex­plicit definitions of the jurisdictional primacy · and infallibility of the Roman Pontiff promulgated at the first Vatican Council in 1869. These 

by Robert Gilbert 

tant churches of the West, the East­ern Catholic Church, and even the world at large. 
In order to gain a fuller under­standing of what led up to Vatican II, attention should be paid to some aspects of the more immediate pre­conciliar Church; Since the Syllabus of Errors by Pius IX, 1864, the Church had taken an undeniably negative and condemnatory attitude toward liberal elements in the secu­lar culture. Modernism, generally re­garded as the rationalistic embodi­ment of the Enlightenment, produced a "siege" mentality approach on the part of the pope and curia. The curia is a self-sufficient body of cardinals at the Vatican which assists the pope. One current of the Christian mind-set -\a critical, conservative, cautious vie\v of anything that may mean accommodation to the world in matters where allegiance belongs properly to God -had the ecclesias­tical upper hand. Another strong cur­rent of thought in Christianity -a perennial, unsuppressible, evangeli­cal embracing of the world as the object of God's salvific love was pres­
6 
SCHOLASTIC 

ent in the Church at large, if not in the Roman Curia. This tension can be seen, for example, in the writings of the popular apologist of the early twentieth century, G. K. Chesterton. His sharp wit was as likely to be affirming man's basic goodness at one moment and then immediately, turning to polemicize some aspects of modern or Protestant thinking the next. 
Some see as unfortunate an em­phasis on scholastic, especially Thomistic, thought partly the result of Pope Leo XIII and his strong en­dorsement of St. Thomas as the principal philosopher of the Church. Without a doubt, Thomas' brilliant and exhaustive synthesis of Aris­totelian philosophy, Sacred Scrip­ture, and the Church Fathers be­came the fundamental basis for semi­nary and catechetical studies. It is claimed that this served as a further means of isolating Catholic doctrine from a more biblical, 'but unsystem­atic, Protestant school. Much of the Protestant biblical focus wa'S on the use of secular scholarly means in studying the Bible, often presuppos­ing a rejection of the Church as the authentic interpreter of Scripture and sometimes rejecting central ten­ets of the faith. Pius XII did recog­nize. the legitimate place of biblical scholarship utilizing modern means. 
Another aspect of the preconciliar Church often faulted as an overem­phasis, and to some extent related to scholasticism, was the legalistic, ju­ridical mind-set formd in all areas of Church life, from moral theology to liturgical worship. This is also partly attributed to the . siege mentality. The liturgy; being the center of Church life, was under tight control in. order to preserve it from outside influences. Being in Latin, a large part of it was inaccessible to the people. However, forces.active within the Church favoring change and re­_newal can be seen to be operative, for example in the liturgical move­ment from the early part of. this century. This movement was in some ways connected with theologians in­volvedin biblical research. 
Growing also in the Church be­fore the turn of the century was an awareness of. social problems and issues stemming from the .industrial revolution, the rise of Marxism, the role of the family in society, etc. Catholic social action did exist, for example in the Catholic Worker movement, but its exact role as re­lated to the ·very nature of the 
APRIL, 1981 

Robert Gilbert 
Church's m1ss10n was ambiguous at the signs of the time. Utilizing what best. Aside from the Church's own was providentially present within understanding, the perception of the humanity -a great desire for peace Church by the world at large was not and closer collaboration-the Church that . conducive to extensive social with a strong faith in the presence involvement. This was an aspect of of the Divine Redeemer and great the Church to develop gradually and spiritual power within itself would to be greatly stimulated by John redeem the world from a great so­
XXIII. cietal crisis; a crisis characterized by 
Pope John XXIII was the personal progressive technological societies impetus for and the largest lasting catering to materialistic hedonism as preliminary influence of the Second well as a worldwide militant athe­Vatican Council, an idea whose time ·-ism. With an eye toward contribut­had come. Although John's predeces-ing efficaciously to the solution of sor, Pius XII, had· considered the the problems of the modern world, idea of calling a council, he finally the Council would also allow the decided not to because of his ad-Church to fortify its faith, contem­vanced age. Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli plate itself in unity, and provide for became Pope on October 28, 1958, as · greater efficiency and sanctification 
·a compromise interim selection; his of its members. 
call for an ecumenical council less The Council was composed of four 
than three months later, attributed _major sessions, between October 11, 
to a sudden inspiration, surprised 1962 and December 8, 1965, averag­
everyone, including himself. ing a little over two months each. 
Pope John's plans for the council Each of the four major sessions was do not appear to have been system-opened and closed publicly. Atten­atically conceived. As a distant dance by delegates fluctuated, roughly goal, he envisioned the unity of all averaging 2,300. Added together, the Christians. At the convoking of the four periods were composed of one Council on Christmas of 1961, John hrmdred and sixty-eight general con­spoke of the Church in a time of gregations. vitality -interiorly renewed and ready for trial-distinguishing among cont'd on page 38 
---~~-----~--~---­

.An Orthodox Perspective . . . 



Equal Rites for Women? 

In recent years, .rumblings from reformist factions of the Catholic Church have highlighted a deep split •of opinion as to the status of women in the Church of Rome. Those criti­cal of the Church's teachings on such matters as marriage, divorce, birth control, abortion and the ordination of women join Sister Theresa . Kane in decrying the "shabby treatment" •of Catholic women. Pat Fogarty Mc­Quillan, onetime chairman of the Committee on Sexism in Religion of NOW went so far as to charge that "Catholic women are oppressed more than any other women ..." On the other hand, historian William Leehy has noted that, through the devotion of Catholics for the Virgin <Mary, "(f)or ·the first time, woman was elevated to· her rightful position ... No longer the slave or toy of man, . . . woman arose . · . . into a new sphere, and became the object of a 
reverential homage." Carl Jung ap­preciates the doctrine of the Assump­tion of the Virgin for its elevation of 
a. female to supernatural status, leaving "Protestantism with the odium of being nothing but a man's religion which allows no metaphysi­cal representation of woman." 
Amplified in a societal arena that is fashionably receptive to charges of sex discrimination, it appears that the voices of dissent have succeeded, at least temporarily,in drowning out those of obedience and acceptance. The most recent criticism has taken the form of an attack on the canon law 968 which restricts the office of the priesthood to "baptised males." Underlying the ordination· issue, however, is the ultimate target of the Church's detractors: the notion that God had a definite purpose in creat­ing mankind "male and female" and that role differentiation on the basis 

by Madonna Christensen 
of gender is natural, necessary and desirable. Many activists appear to be sedulous to erode all · distinctions · between the roles of males and fe­males. Although it is undoubtedly . the case that most advocates of re­form in the Church are motivated by a sincerely held and generous desire to make Her more responsive to the presumed needs of Her followers, it should be·recognized that their pro­posals bear more than a trace of the influence of several secular trends, none of which are necessarily ameli­orative. 
Ordination of Women. 
The first official ordination of a woman by a recognized Christian. de-· nomination occurred in 1863 in the Universalist Church; Although there have been no bars to the ordina-. tion of women· in many Protestant churches for over a century, it was • riot until the 1950s that assiduous ef­forts were made to ordain women. : There are approximately 10,000 women · ministers and 2.5 rabbis of the Reform branches of Judaism in• this country today. The Roman Cath­olic and Eastern Orthodox Churches, together with the orthodox branches of Judaism, stand almost alone among the nation's major religions in re-• sisting the change. 
The Vatican addressedthe issue at length for the first time in its 1976 Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the Minis-­terial Priesthood, the product of a study commissioned by Pope Paul VI. Although the authors were honest in• admitting that· the ordination of women is a topic "hardly touched on. in the traditional tea'ching of the theological SGhools," this pretermis­sion was undoubtedly due more· to • the tradition/ of unquestioned accep­tance. enjoyed by the teaching. than to want of a solidtheological founda.-· tion for the. alls male .priesthood. 
The tradition of the Church is not merely a congeries of "quaint old customs." According to Rev. William 
cont'd on page 10 
SCHOLASTIC 



The .Ordination of Women: 

In Light of the Death and Resurrection of Jesus Christ 
The claim, "I-am a Christian," is 
a profound theologi<:!al utterance. The 
particular gender of the claimant is 
not a. qualifier of this proclamation. 
Blandina was a Christian martyr 
who embraced this proclamation in 
all of its fullness. An account of her 
death includes the following: "She 
seemed to hang there in the form of 
a cross, and by her fervent prayer 
she aroused intense enthusiasm in 
those.who were undergoing their or­
deal, for in their torment with their 
physical eyes they saw in their sis­
ter him ·who was crucified for 
them...."1 "They saw in their sister 
him who was crucified for them." 
This is an important fact to remem­
ber. So, it. is to. Blandina that this 
article is dedicated. And it fa written 
in the memory of Saint Teresa of 
Avila, a Doctor of the Church, upon 
whose feast day the Sacred Congre­
gation for the Doctrine of the Faith 
ironically issued its Declaration 
against the admission of women to 
the ministerial priesthood. 
On October 15, 1976, the Sacred 
Congregation for the Doctrine of the 
Faith "deemed it opportune at the 
present juncture to explain this posi­
tion of the Church." That it, that the 
Church "... does not consider herself 
authorized to admit women to 
ordination."2 This writing will sum­
marize and criticize this Declaration. 
Moreover, it will also relate this issue 
of ordination to the notion of Chris­
tian womanhood . and, therefore, 
Christian personhood in general. 
Such a task is frankly impossible to 
thoroughly accomplish within the 
space of such a brief writing. How­
ever, it must be attempted because 
the tomb twas found empty and M;ary 
of Magdala's Good News awaits ful­. fillment (Mark 16:9-11). 
The arguments contained within the Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the 
·Ministerial Priesthood can be sum~ marized. under two categorie~. First, those arguments that concern the tradition of the Church of not or­daining women. Second, the theo­logical contention which concerns 
APRIL, 1981 
-. 
---___,_~ --~-~ 
the function of a priest as "... tak­ing the role of Christ; to the point of being his very image, when he pro­nounces the words of consecration" 
· (in persona Christi).3 
Relying heavily on Scripture, the Declaraltion maintains that it is sig­nificant that neither Jesus, nor the Apostles, ever called women to the priesthood. The Magisterium claims fidelity to this position. The scrip­tural passages employed to stress this point are numerous_ within the Declaration. The extent to which the Declaration depends on Scripture to illustrate its point is, however, sur­prising considering that at an earlier plenary session of the Pontifical Bib­lical Commission "the members voted 12-5 that scriptural grounds alone are not enough to exclude the possibility of ordaining women."·1 Nevertheless, even if one accepts the Declaration's reliance on Scripture, the manner in which it is used. is subject to criticism. 
In an article entitled On the Veil­ing of Hermeneutics, contained with­in The Catholic Biblical Quarterly 

by Mary Patricia Hackett 

(April, 1978), John P. Meier con­vincingly illustrates his contention that "the Declaration does not take historical-critical exegesis (of Scrip­ture) seriously."5 He writes: 
Thus, the most fundamental prob­lem of the Declaration is that it presumes for Jesus and the writ­ers of the NT concern about the ordained Catholic priesthood as we understand it today, a reality which, as far as we can judge, ap­pears for the first time in the First -Epistle of Clement (ca. A.D. 96) and the Epistles of Ignatius ( ca. 
A.D. 113), a reality which reaches 
-full maturity with the writings of Cyprian in the third_century and those of John Chrysostom in the fourth century. This fundamental flaw of anachronism infects and invalidates a good deal of .the, Declaration.6 
In a related article entitled The Role of Women According to Jesus and the Early Church, Robert J. Karris, cont'd on page 11 
9 
-


cont'd from, page 8 
Smith of St. Joseph's Seminary, tra­dition is itself "a source of divine revelation. Centuries of tradition show the Holy Spirit at work . . . keeping the Church faithful to the plan of Christ." Keeping this special role of tradition in mind, then, it should be noted that never in the history of the Catholic Church has "ordination (been) validly conferred upon women." Although there is evi­dence that deaconesses were instru­mental in spreading the early Chris­tian message and held positions of authority again beginning in the third century, it is fairly clear that their duties were limited to care for the women in their communities. The deaconesses, who probably were not ordained and whose status and re­sponsibilities in many communities were indistinguishable from those of widows, had no authority over males and did not perform any of the vital functions of the priesthood. 

The tradition of the all-male priest­
iiii 
hood acquires special meaning from the fact that it was initiated by Christ Himself. One cannot convinc­ingly argue that Jesus' choice of apostles was limited by the cultural prejudices prevailing in Israel during
Ii 
the first century since many of His actions and teachings were clearly at odds with reigning customs. The love and respect He showed to the women He encountered make all the more significant His choice of twelve males as His first priests. It is only if we posit that certain aspects of the priesthood, by their very nature, can be assumed only by men that we can understand Jesus' decision not to make the Virgin Mary, who "sur­passed all the apostles in worth and perfection," one of His apostles. Fur­thermore, if -it were the case. that cultural restraints in the Jewish com­munity alone discouraged the choice of women, one might suppose that the priesthood would have been ex­tended to women when the apostles traveled in the progressive Hellenic communities. Even in the more egali­tarian nations, however, no women were ordained. 

What, then, is it about the office of the priesthood that admits of its occupation by males only? The rela­tionship between Christ and His Church is frequently analogized to that between a bridegroom and his bride. Although it is undisputed that Christ came to earth to redeem women as well· as men, no woman, however devout and committed she might be, could ever properly fill the role of a bridegroom. Perhaps more 
! i 
10 
fundamental, however, is a doctrine that is central to the Catholic faith and that distinguishes it from Prot­estant beliefs.· As Michael Novak has noted, while Protestant ministers generally perform clerical, teaching and social service . functions, rples which can !be filled just as well by women as by men, an ordained Cath­olic priest sanctified by the grace in­herent in the sacrament of Holy Orders, actually acts in persona Christi dutjng ·the sacrifice of the Mass. According to the centuries-old principle of transubstantiation, Christ himself is "substantially present (in the Eucharist) through (the) con­version of 'bread and wine." The priest is a sacramental sign, and, in the words of Thomas Aquinas, "Sac­ramental signs signify by reason of a natural likeness." 
This author will be·the first to ad­mit that many of the Church's state­ments regarding the ordination of women are highly mysterious and esoteric. Nonetheless, in the words of a Jesuit missionary, "belief in a doc­trine does not depend on understand­ing or accepting the explanations given by theologians; and dissatis­faction with such explanations is not a reason for doubting or denying a doctrine." -Refusal to believe nothing but what one can verify_byone's own experience evidences a hubristic atti­tude that is markedly inconsistent with the humility taught by Christ. On the issue of the ordination of women, the Church has adhered to consistent tradition throughout Her history. As faithful members of the Church, it is our duty to accept that teaching. 
Christmn Marriage 
James Likoudis once said that the 
admission of women· to the Holy 
Orders would "(upset) the comple­
mentary and hierarchical (and thus, 
in one sense,. subordinate) relation­
ship which the Creator has posited 
between man and woman, husband 
and wife." The current ordination 
controversy only provides· the most 
recent opportunity. for reformists to 
express _their dissatisfaction with the 
Church's teachings on the proper 
roles of men and women.' The no­
tions that men and womeri should 
have categorically different.functions 
and that there should be a hierarchi­
cal and interdependent relationship 
between a husband and a wife are 
the real targets of the Church's 
critics. 
The Church has never been de,;. 
luded by the currently prevalent ab­
surdity that men and women are 

simply variations on a single human theme. She has taken the position that God's plan for the world is most . faithfully executed when males and females perform the different tasks for which they are respectively suited. Nearly ninety years after Pope Leo XIII taught that "a woman is by nature fitted for homework ... , " Pope John Paul II rued modern attempts to lead women away from "their specific vocation as wives and mothers." These vocations are among the most noble and fulfilling on earth; A woman is absolutely in­dispensable to God's world order as the solace of the lonely and dis­tressed, the comforter of the young and the companion of the aged. It is unkind and inaccurate to suggest that the contributions which a woman makes to her family and community are less valuable than those made by her husband. In these days of class consciousness, mass media and .fast food, nothing is more vital than the tender, personalized love that a woman yearns to give. 
Perhaps the Church's instructions to women would ·be more palatable if She were to make express what is implicit in ·so many Church docu­ments on Christian marriage: that men are 'bound by their family re­sponsibilities to the same degree as are their wives. While women are di­rected to 'be submissive to their hus~ bands, men are called to love and 
· care for their wives with the same wise and selfless devotion with which Christ cared for His Church. The Rev. R. J. Rushdoony has stated that "status increases accountability; it does not give exemption from it." Rushdoony ·contends that the wom­en's liberation movement is a nat­ural, though lamentable, outgrowth of the ;men's liberation movement which encouraged men to abandon their family responsibilities and to enjoy for themselves the more leni­ent half of an immoral double stan­dard. Emancipation from the bonds that hold a family together, however, is not true freedom. It is, rather, in Pope Pius Xi's words, "an abom­inable crime." · 
Sex-role differentiation serves im­portant practical values. The gov­ernmental, functions performed by a family, so frequently ignored in favor of a companionate view of the institution, require that family mem­bers carry out certain fixed responsi­bilities. The family is the first and most important governmental unit encountered· by an individual. Arbi­trariness of function would ibe no 
cont'd on page 2.5 
SCHOLASTIC 



cont'd frcnn page 9 
O.F.M., contends that "from the Gospel data it is a perilous task to probe serenely and confidently into what he (Jesus) thought of the fu­ture and determined as absolutely normative for priesthood."7 Thus, the Declaration's said reliance on the practice and attitude of Jesus Christ and the Apostles is seriously questionable. One is led to wonder whether Prisca and Aquila, two of Paul's female "fellow workers in Christ Jesus" (Romans 16:3) ,8 would look kindly upon the Declaration's use of Scripture. 
One is led to seriously question the Church's accounting of the "signs of the times"0 when considering its understanding of tradition as put forth in its Declaration. Does the Magisterium take seriously the his­toricity of the Church? The patri­archal and hierarchical society of the time of Jesus Christ and the variations on this theme that have existed throughout. history should not be ignored when attempting to explain the Church's tradition of ex­cluding women from the priesthood. Sociologically, it has only been re­cently that women have begun to fully realize the dignity and depth of their humanity. It is time that the Church also manifest this fact. In years to come the Catholic Church of today will be the tradition. Will it be a tradition of growth or stagna­tion? In light of the Declaration against the ordination of women, one has reason to be. dubious. In light of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, however, one can­not allow for the loss of hope. 
The theological contentions of the Declaration against the ordination of women concern the priest's sacra­mental function at the Eucharist. The Declaration maintains that the priest's essential role is "in persona Christi (taking the role of Christ)." While acknowledging the priest's role "in persona Ecclesiae (that is, in the name of the whole Church in order to represent her),"10 the Dec­laration nevertheless makes it clear that this latter role is contingent upon and secondary to the priest's role of in persona Christi. Moreover, the Declaration states: 
"Sacramental signs," says Saint Thomas, "represent what they sig­nify by natural resemblance." The same natural resemblance is re­quired for persons as for things: when Christ's role in the -Eu­charist is to be expressed sacra­meri.tally, there would. not be this 
APRIL, 1981 
"natural resemblance" which must exist ·between Christ and his min­ister if the role of Christ were not taken by a man. In such a case it would be difficult to see in the minister the image of Christ. For Christ himself was and remains a man.11 

It would be difficult to see in a woman the image of Christ! Appar­ently the waters of the 'baptismal font mean different things for Chris­tian men and women. The author of Galatians 3: 27-28 might indeed cringe at such a suggestion. For, "All baptized in Christ, you have all clothed yourselves in Christ, and there are no more distinctions be­tween Jew and Greek, slave and free, male and female, but all of you are one in Christ Jesus."12 The sug­gestion that it is difficult to see in a woman the image of Christ is a per­spective that the Church should be working to rectify, not protect under the guise of sacramental necessity. In light of the death and resurrec­tion of Jesus Christ, a perspective which fails to see in a woman the image of Christ should be and, in the opinion of this writer, is highly sus­pect. 
Many theologians have criticized the theological arguments of the Declaration against the ordination of women. Edward .J. Kilmartin, S.J., is such a theologian. The need for brevity precludes a comprehensive discussion of his complex writings at this time. However, some of his in­sights are offered here for your con­sideration. Concerning the D_eclara­tion's understanding of the priest as in persona Christi, Kilmartin writes: 
The Christomonism underlying the scholastic theology of priesthood is not adequate to express the the­ology of pastoral office expressed in the ordination rites of East and West, which stress participation in the Holy Spirit. Sufficient atten­tion is not paid to the and in the theological statement that the priest represents Christ and the Church.13 
In the opinion of Kilmartin, the Church's "christomonistic view of ministerial priesthood . . . lacks a Trinitarian perspective which gives due consideration to the role of the Spirit."11 The role of the community in the Eucharistic sacrament is therefore, not properly accounted for within the scholastic perspective. Thus, Kilmartin writes: 
If one does not pay attention to 
the various levels of signification of sacramental rites when inter­preting the dynamics of liturgical actions, there is a danger that the Christian liturgy will be presented as a sacred drama. This danger is apparent in theological explana­tions of the Eucharist which de­scribe the priest as directly repre­senting Christ in an activity to which the community then relates itself.... This presentation might possibly find a home in a typically Reformation theology which sees the Eucharist merely from the viewpoint of Christ's gift of him­self to the believer, but it is not consistent with a Catholic theology which teaches that the Eucharist is a sacramental coaccomplishment of the sacrifice of the cross in and by the Church.15 
In presenting the above excerpts by Edward Kilmartin, it is the hope i of this writer that the Declaration's specific deficiency in regard to sac­ramental theology has become evi­dent. This is significant if one main­tains that it is exactly the realm of the sacramental that women and all Christians should claim as their home. Christianity and in particular the priesthood is a sacramental way of life. Alla Bozarth-Campbell, a I woman Episcopal priest, writes: "I have come to experience priesthood as a sacramental way of being alive . . . as a priest, my calling is to be truly present to others as a symbol of their own priesthood, their ability to see and to consecrate to God what is holy within our personal and cor­porate lives."10 
This nonlegalistic, sacramental approach to priesthood applies to all of Christian life. ·The theology of Christian marriage is an area where the Church's developing understand­ing of the sacramental dimension of Christian life is evident. For exam­ple, a comparison can be drawn be­tween Pope Pius XI's Encyclical on Christian marriage of 1931 and Vati­can II's account of Christian mar­riage contained in Gaudium et Spes. Legalistic terminology pervades Pius XI's account of marriage. Thus, he speaks of the "contracting parties" and "day of reckoning," "the primacy of the husband" and "the subjection of the wife."11 

The message contained in the documents of Vatican II, on the other hand, is quite different. Sub­mission in Christian marriage is seen as consistent wth the equality inherent in the sacrament only 
con'td on page 25 
11 

~ ~ ~ ---~----~-~-----------------~------------­




Spectators or Participants? 
"Mother Church earnestly desires that all the faithful be led to that full, conscious, and active participa­tion in liturgical celebrations which is demanded by the very nature of the liturgy." 
"In the restoration and the promo­tion of the sacred liturgy, this full and active participation by all the people is the aim to be considered before all else: for it is the primary and indispensable source from which the faithful are to derive the true Christian spirit." -from The Docu­ments of Vatican II on the Sacred Liturgy. 
'' 
i ! 
, I 
i i 


~ !1A (B1~ i 1·\ ~ 
. 
~t "~ ~ii!irn1 ~ .·~.· 
I 




1k~v-\mii 
_-iJ/i~~ff•/JffiffN~j~~--===-­
12 
When the Constitution on the Sa­cred Liturgy called for a reformation of liturgical procedures, it also im­plied a restructuring of the environ­ment of our churches. Another word for environment is "place." Differ­ent happenings take place all around us every day, and it is difficult or perhaps impossible to talk about an event without describing its place or location. We can clearly see that the character of the environment is closely linked to the event which is taking place there. 

The place of the church must be suitable for contemporary liturgical use. This requires that the structur­
by Steve Brown 

ing of the space will encourage the "sp'irit" of contemporary liturgy. The Church is striving to integrate the Liturgy today with the spirit of the early Christian communities. This spirit is evident in St. Paul's first letter to the Corinthians: 
the cup of blessing which we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of one bread. ( 1 Cor 10: 16) 
Therefore, the primary demand on the environmental character of a church is to acknowledge an assem­bly of active participants-a gather­ing of the faithful wp.o are unified in Jesus Christ. 
Recently, my professor, Jaime Bel­lalta, gave me the opportunity to im­plement the changes of Vatican II in the .structuring of a space. He gave me the name of Fr. O'Connor and his church in Ft. Wayne. Father was interested in renovating his church, St. Mary's. Another architecture stu­dent, Guy Toro, and I were to submit a proposal. 
I had never been to Ft. Wayne, Indiana, but I was told that the church was in the poorer section of town. The grand old Gothic~style edifice towered above the surround­ing neighborhood. After trying the locked front doors, Guy and I went around the back side of the church to the rectory. Father was busy, so we wandered into the church through the apse. It had a magnificent inte­rior, complete with high vaults, beautiful carvings in both wood and stone, and\ very fine stained-glass windows. At the rear of the church, the taberna:cle was embedded in finely ·sculptured marble two steps above the altar. A solid wooden Communion ,rail separated the altar from the pews which were another three steps below the altar and twenty feet away. It was a typical pre-Vatican II church. 
SCHOLASTIC 



After walking about the interior of the church, Guy and I began to discuss our ideas on how this place could be brought up to date. The ideas flowed freely and they seemed quite natural to us-all the design decisions would be an attempt to unify the space and to bring what was happening "up there" into the midst of the community. Finally, Father entered the church and, based on his pastoral experience, he ex­pressed his thoughts for alterations in the space. We were surprised at how closely our ideas matched his. 
Looking at the existing space, one got a feeling of how the liturgy once was practiced and how the people were called to worship. The parish­ioners would file into a highly or­dered space and slip into their pews. The celebrant would commence the Mass from the far reaches of the apse while the people trained their eyes to a missal. The divine mystery of the Eucharist was as isolated as could be from the people while the priest spoke in a foreign language with his back turned to them. The altar was not only kept measurably distant, but was also separated from the people by a Communion rail. This space did not provide an environ­ment for a gathering of "partici­pants," it was designed for a univ­ocal event. The priest would not have even known if the pews were full or empty; nor would the people necessarily have acknowledged their neighbor. The existing space was not a suitable environment for an active, participating community. 
Although the liturgical procedures of the Church have been significantly enriched in accordance with Vatican fl, and though the priest desires to pull the people together in worship, it becomes most difficult for them to actively participate in the liturgical celebration when the environment is not appropriate. By breaking down the existing barriers, rearranging the seating, and bringing the altar among the people, an "environment" of community can be established. This kind of environment is essential, for the Mass is not merely the action of an isolated individual. The Church calls all of the faithful to celebrate. 
That evening during our dinner with Father, someone knocked on the back door-he was a man with tired eyes. Father talked ,with him briefly and the man walked away. Two more people beckoned for Fa­ther that night and he had ta, send them away with only a few words of kindness. These people were the 
APRIL, 1981 
-. -----~ --~---------~­
hungry and the poor. Some 600 of them had already been fed by Fr. O'Connor that day. He runs a soup kitchen every day along with volun­teer help from St. Mary's parish. This priest is a man who desires active participation within the Mass and who . practices it outside the Mass. His parishioners have re­sponded to his exhortation and ex­ample most enthusiastically. 
The relationship between what goes on in the Mass and how the faithful live their lives is of extreme importance. The Mass brings .the faithful together, who are part of the Mystical Body of Christ. The Body offers the Mass and offers itself in the Mass. Christ brings men to­gether because of His love for them, a love that was proved by His will­ingness to die on a cross for all men. At the first Mass, Christ gave the greatest commandment, which is to love one another as He loves us. We 
,--­__._...__~ 



must live by the Mass and make it a thanksgiving for everything. It must be the strength of our daily tasks and the focus of our efforts to bring the light of Christ into our own lives so that we may proclaim Him to the world. 
* * * 

The weekend in Ft. Wayne opened my eyes. Not only has the Liturgical life of the Church been enriched, but 
i. I'
jii 

also, my own life in the Church has been greatly enriched. Vatican II did not just call for a few things to be moved around; it called for much more. Centering our lives on the Eucharist, we respond to God's call through the Council Fathers to be active participants and effective apostles to the Church. D 
Steve Brown is a f<YUrth-year A rchi­tecture student from St. L<YUis, Mis­s<YUri. 
13 
-




Science and the Edge of Belief 
"For what can be known abcmt God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. Ever since the creation of the world his invisible nature, his eternal power and deity, has been clearly perceived in the things that have been made.'' 
Rom.ans 1:19-20 
' 
Science is a system of thought 
which organizes and explains many 
aspects of the natural world. Physics, 
chemistry, and biology are three of 
the most common sciences. Science is 
not so much a collection of facts or 
immutable truths as it is a process; 
it is a way of thinking. Things which 
are true for science today may be 
erroneous years from now.· For ex­
ample, until 1952, scientists were 
convinced the human chromosome 
count was 48; now, due to better in­
strumentation and techniques, it is 
known that every human cell con­
tains 46 chromosomes. 
Science's procedure, or way of 
knowing, is often called the scientific 
method. It simply -formalizes the 
everyday manner each of us uses to 
gather experiential knowledge of our 
world. One puts one's hand in boiling 
water. One scalds oneself. One re­
peats with the other hand or sees 
one's younger brother do the same. 
The same result ensues. After many 
such tests, one concludes, "Boiling. 
water scalds the skin." This plain 
common sense encapsulates the sci­
entific method. 
The basis of this procedure con­
sists in experimentation and formu­
lation of tentative explanations called 
hypotheses. These hypotheses are of 
-two types. First, there are hypothe­
ses which solely summarize collec­
tions of sensory data. For instance, 
instead of stating, "Boiling water in 
a teakettle is hot," "Boiling water in 
a cauldron over a fire is hot," and 
"Water in the power plant boilers is 
hot," one could summarize and sim­
ply say, "Boiling water is hot." 
In addition -to these almost -trivial ·generalizing hypotheses, _there are 
explanatory hypotheses which go 
further and attempt to explain the 
14 

cause of the natural event. The statement, "Boiling water is caused by the addition of sufficient heat which raises the temperature of the liquid to 100°C (at sea level) and causes a change in state from liquid to gas," is one example. A vaUd ex­planatory hypothesis explains that which can be tested. These explana­tions are tested through the use of repeatable experiments. Science as­sumes that repeatability guarantees reliability; that is why experiments must be repeatable. 
One of science's greatest strengths (and paradoxically a weakness, too) is its ability to change. A true hy­pothesis always brings about a true prediction, while a false hypothesis may effect either a true or false pre­diction. The explanatory hypothesis that the sun revolves around the earth seems to be confirmed by the rising and setting of the sun every day. However, it is not until addi­tional evidence on -the motion of other plants is analyzed that the orbit of the earth around the sun is discovered. Because there is a danger of accepting a false hypothesis (and many have been accepted and subse­quently discarded) scientists must constantly test their hypotheses when new data becomes available. Science can only be certain when a hypothe­sis is false; truth to a scientist is a well-supported hypothesis. 
Because of this element of uncer­tainty, however small, every hy­pothesis, theory, or law which scien­tists hold to be true may one day become obsolete. It is rare for a hypothesis never to. be modified. In fact, this everpresent component of doubt prompts scientists to con­stantly reevaluate and refine hy­potheses in the light of new knowl­edge. This unremitting self-:-criticism invigorates science, and is one _rea­son why its influence-is felt in every area of our lives. Scientists do not simply ask "•What -do you know?" but "How do you kn<;>w it?'' They do not desire absolute dogmas, but well­supported theories based on objec­tive knowledge. This mutability ·of 
by Tom Seasly 

scientific truth is in the very nature of science itself. 
Science's experimental method has accomplished tremendous gains in knowledge -of the natural world. In biology alone, advances have been made in medicine, genetics, ecology, evolutionary biology, and agricul­tural research that have literally changed the world. Not-so-old tech­niques in medicine allow transplanta­tion of organs which were impossible just a century ago. 
Wonder drugs· such as penicillin are taken for granted today, but they have saved millions of lives. Diseases that once were the scourge of man­kind are nearly eliminated around the world. Modern genetics have given us the technique of gene-splic­ing, which, among other things, can reduce the cost of valuable insulin. It has provided valuable research on patterns of inheritance in humans as well as other organisms. 
The understanding of basic eco­logical concepts has allowed man to control his environment without such generalized killers as DDT. Man can artificially produce natural ene­mies of insect pests. and so control them biologically. Evolutionary biol­ogy has united such diverse scientific fields as paleontology, taxonomy, bio­chemistry, genetics, and ecology.· · 
Modern agriculture has _benefited extensively from scientific research. New disease:. and drought-resistant strains of grain have been developed which produce incredible yields. Dis­covery; of more nutritious varieties, for _example those high in essential amino acids, has increased rapidly. This scientific revolution, both in ap­plied and pure research, is truly 
awesome. 
Unfortunately, this boom in scien­tific_ knowl~dge has_ led to the myth that scientists _can solve any problem and do anything. They are riot super­men in white coats. Although science can and does have a great influence upon our lives, it is. limited to. an objective, quantifiable reality which is sµbject ._ to experiment. Value­laden questfo11s and moral problems 
. SCHOLASTIC 


lie outside its ken. The subjective, qualitative reality is unsuited to any kind of scientific analysis. Freedom and love are real parts of everyone's experience, but how can one quantify them or even determine if they exist? One knows they exist, but not be­cause of science. Science cannot ade­quately deal with this area of human experience. 
On the other hand, those who at­tempt to reduce all reality to science and its method eliminate a large dimension of human existence. It does not seem possible to explain 11:he grief over a lost loved one strictly in terms of chemical changes along various nerve fibers which synapse in the brain in a certain combination and produce the mental state called sorrow. A huge component of this experience is left out if one attempts to explain these qualities in this way. 
Yet, although science cannot ana­lyze this subjective reality, it can bring one to the edge of recognition of many aspects of it. Dr. Edward Curtis, the physician who performed the autopsy on President Abraham Lincoln on April 15, 1865, wrote in, his memoirs: 
Silently, in one corner of the room, I prepared the brain for weighing. As I looked at the mass of soft gray and white substance that I was carefully washing, it was im­possible to realize that it was that mere clay upon whose workings, but the day before, rested the hopes of the nation. I felt more profoundly impressed than ever with the mystery of that unknown something which may be named "vital spark" as well as anything else, whose absence or presence makes all the immeasurable dif­ference between an inert mass of matter owing obedience to no laws but those governing the physical and chemical forces of the universe 
· and, on the other hand, a living brain by whose silent, subtle ma­chinery :a world may be ruled. 
It is in knowing the physical and chemical laws of the universe that one is impressed that much, more with the mystery of life. Even the "simplest" unicellular organism is extremely complex. To designate it simply as a bag of self-perpetuating chemicals leaves out the essential being that a living organism is. 
There are further dimensions of reality beyond science. Science can­not and never will be able to prove the existence (or nonexistence) of God. First, science can never prove the absolute truth of anything. Sci­ence is by its very nature changeable; and at best can only give a proba­bility statement of truth. Secondly, God, by His very nature, is imma­terial. Science .can only deal with quantitative, objective, sensory data. It cannot deal with immaterial ob­jects. This does not mean that we cannot ·know whether God exists or not. We can, but we must use the methods of philosophy or theology. 
Although science cannot prove the existence of God, it can bring us to the very edge of belief. The more we know of our surrounding universe, the more we open our eyes in won­der. The discovery that the genetic material of all living things is made up of DNA (or closely related RNA) strikes us by its encompassing unity. The examination of muscle function amazes us by its very order and com­plexity. The interrelationships of plants and animals in a forest en­vironment demonstrate the dynamic harmony and completeness of life. All creation seems to cry out and point to its Creator, who is the Author of life, order, unity, wonder, and completeness. The more we dis­cover of this creation, the more the din of voices proclaim to . us God's existence. 
Not only does science provide us with knowledge of our universe, it leads us right to the edge of the precipice from where we can look down and view the immensity of God and His creation. There is a tomb­stone in the Notre Dame cemetery belonging to Dr. Edward Lee Greene, a famous botanist of the early part of this century. It sums up very well this tl:wofold nature of science. On it is written, "A man whom nature in all her phases attracted and engaged and for whom she opened a door leading unto the house of God." D 
Toni Seasly is a senior in Biology. Starting in the fall he will begin medical school at the University of 
Tom Seasly Minnesota. 
15

APRIL, 1981 


ChristianBoles in theBusinessWorld 


Can a person be a Christian in the business world? Although this seems to be a ridiculous question it really is not. We cannot just simply answer this question in the affirmative due to some gut feeling we have about it, nor can we avoid the question alto­gether lest we fall into the sin of ignorance later on. We must intelli­gently ponder the issues surrounding such a question so as to base our answer on reason. The decision is ul­timately one that cannot be answered with a resounding yes or no, but is an individual one in which different people may come to quite different conclusions for a variety of reasons.· 
The real issue involved here is de­termining the relationship between Christianity and the business world when they interact with each other in various situations. A useful way of viewing this relationship can be seen in the ideals held out by the businessman in the light of those held out by the Christian. The ideal is the end by which we direct our energies so that we may attain some­thing we perceive as good. Ideals vary from person to person since all of us have different perceptions of what brings us happiness, this is especially so with the bm1inessman. 
In their book Full Value, Oliver Williams and John Houck provide a group of ideals which businessmen often hold up as worthy of pursuit. These ideals are shown through the use of six "master images" which in­fluence the businessman's actions to various degrees, depending on which image is in the forefront. These images are not ·mutually exclusive either, although there usually is one guiding image which exerts a greater influence over the business­man. By briefly looking at these images it can be quite helpful in looking into one's own life to exam­ine the motives one has for being a businessman. 
16 

The first image is that of the mil­lionaire. The primary object of this image is to accumulate wealth and live in luxury. High salaries, good company benefits, luxurious houses, nice cars and other such things are the end toward which the millionaire is directed. The result of such a guiding image is that one is often so caught .up in the pursuit of wealth that the concerns for the needs of others are often overlooked so that compassion and justice are not well­developed virtues. Persistence and in­genuity are more characteristic since it takes a great deal of motivation to achieve the goals. 

by Rich Preuss 

image is motivated more by a psy­chic reward, such as being powerful or influential, than by a material re­ward. This person is interested in developing the skills and competence necessary for assuming leadership and is willing to practice the self­discipline required to achieve his goal. A weakness of such a person is a lack of compassion resulting from striving for the top. 
The third image is that of Crafts­person. The craftsperson.· takes de­light in a job well done and always performs according to high stan­dards. Such a person emphasizes the quality of a job and usually per­forms quite well. However, such a person finds the politics of corporate life unpleasant and is not interested in attempting to change the cor­porate environment for the better. 
The fourth image is that of the Company Person. This person comes to identify greatly with all that the company represents. Such a person is very .loyal to the company and its employees. However, this ex­treme loyalty to a corporation can result in a lack of independence from the company and can stifle creativity to the extent that such a person may be unwilling to challenge company philosophies or programs which need to be called into question. 
Fifthly isthe image of the Games. man. This person is a risk-taker who enjoys implementing new techniques and methods and thrives on competi­tion.· Such a person is driven not by the desire.for riches or power, but by a desire for/fame, recognition, of winning the irilportant victory. In trying to prove himself, the games­man will jump from job to job so as to continue to prove· himself. The price he pays for this. may be few friends, no · roots, and a· strained family life. 
The-last image employed by Houck and Williams is that of the Captain 
SCHOLASTIC 



on the Bridge. Besieged by many different interest groups, this person appeases each one, to an extent, in order to keep operations going smoothly. The strength of this person is found in an ability to take care of demands placed on the company. However, idealism may be sacrificed or seriously diluted when this person fails to do what is right when there is no interest group calling for action. 
The ideal held up by the Christian infinitely surpasses these ideals. As a Christian one must be ordained to the ultimate end: God. This is the ideal which is portrayed in stories about lives of the saints. The Chris­tian must hold up sainthood, and nothing less, as the ideal of Chris­tianity because this is what Chris­tianity is all about. If the Christian does not open himself up to the grace of God and work at overcoming his sins then he is wasting his time. Per­haps the dying words of Theodoric to his son St. Robert of Molesmes ex­presses this idea best: "There is only one mistake in life; not to become a saint." If this becomes the ideal of the Christian in conducting business affairs then the ideals expressed 
that by uniformity with God's will we come to see things as God sees them, in the light of Divine reason which transcends human reason. Thus the Christian cannot approach business situations with a minimal­ist attitude but must transform. the basic question to "How much can I change this situation and improve it to bring.about Christian ideals?" The veloped for such a situation. By re­defining man as more than an eco­nomic animal, and seeing him as made in the image of God, the Chris­tian businessman comes to see the necessity of guaranteeing the eco­nomic rights of those he works with and those who work under him. Basic rights such as the right to work, the right to adequate working 

P-~ 

above in the form of images must be subject to and shaped by this higher ideal. 
Putting the Christian ideal into practice has many implications in how one approaches a job. The most important implication resulting from this ideal is that an interior life of prayer must be developed. Nurturing an interior life is the most important task of the Christian in modern so­ciety. In so doing the Christian be­gins to converse intimately with God and opens up to the activity of the Holy Spirit in his life. It is essential that someone who calls himself a Christian be led by the action of the Holy Spirit in order that God's will can be .accomplished in their lives. This is especially important in mod­ern technological society where man is faced with so many alternatives and must choose between many things which may be good. A thing may be good but it is not necessarily what God wants for someone, where­as God's will is always the best thing among many goods. Therefore, the businessman must make decisions that are uniform with God's will if he is going to be as effective a Chris­tian as he can be. 
A prevalent philosophy among businessmen today is what might best be termed minimalism.· The basic premise of this philosophy is "How far can I go before it is a sin?" The ideal of Christianity, however, is 
APRIL, 1981 
. . ' 
--·~~~:.____,----~--~----~-­


minimalist is fundamentally egotisti­cal and sees things in relation to how they affect him and his job. But the Christian businessman views situa­tions in the light of the Holy Spirit and works toward the common good. 
Adam Smith's idea that "each man pursuing his own interest promotes society's interest" must be trans­formed by Christians in the business world so that each man pursuing God's interests promotes society's in­terest. According to Vatican II: "The ultimate and basic purpose of eco­nomic production does not consist merely in the increase of goods pro­duced, nor in profit nor prestige; itt is directed to the service of man, of man, that is, in his totality, taking into account his material needs and the requirements of his intellectual, moral, spiritual and religious life."1 Economic activity is for the good of man and must serve man in develop­ing his personality. "Therefore, eco­nomic activity is to be carried out in accordance with techniques and meth­ods belonging to the moral order, so that God's design for man may be fulfilled."2 
The Christian businessman must see his work as bringing Christ into the business environment. The teach­ings of Christ must be alive in him so that he may be "a light to the world." (Matt. 5:14) The virtue of justice must be especially well de­conditions, the right to a just wagE::, the right to organize unions and the right to private property must all be guaranteed or worked toward if not already in effect. The dignity of the 
i 

workingman must be preserved and 
!i 

it is the duty of all Christians par­
l
i,

ticipating in economic activity to work toward an economic environ­
Ir

ment where all aspects of a man's Ii personality may be developed. 
1; The Christian businessman must 
II

see his own life in light of some 
I 

basic gospel values also. The words of Christ must be taken seriously when he,,..counsels us, "Set your hearts on God's kingdom first, and on his righteousness" (Matt; 6:33). For "what gain, then, is it for a man to have won the whole world and to have lost or ruined his very self?" 
(Luke 9:25) Avarice, which is so common in modern economic society, must be replaced by true Christian charity, which calls for a love of neighbor, and by the spirit of the counsel of poverty. Man must not love money but must be detached from it. Money must be seen as good only insofar as God's purposes can be worked toward. Tithing and alms­giving must be exercised by the Christian businessman because these are the standard duties which Chris­tian charity calls for. 
ii 

cont'd on page 36 I',1 
17 
. . 




Social Justice: 
An Active Witness to The Love of God 
No one can question the integral

'i
: i part that loving one's neighbor must play in the life of Christians. Indeed when collapsing all of the laws into two intertwined commandments, we are left with love of God and love of neighbor. And we are reminded that anyone who claims to love God, yet hates his neighbor is a liar. It is by faith that we are saved, but a faith without works is dead. Likewise the reason for the Church's existence is to reveal the Father, and draw men 
,.11'.
il 1 
toward eternal salvation. Yet to do 

': this, the Church must witness to the love of God in actions, not just words. This witness must extend to the ends of the ·earth and embrace all of the human family. 
The tradition of social justice is rooted in the Jewish faith. Yahweh, as the one God, called his chosen people to care for the widows and orphans, to be hospitable to strang­ers and to be just toward the poor. Jesus Christ, as the founder of the Christian faith, continually com­forted the poor, the blind, sick, hun­gry and suffering. He commanded his followers to do the same. Thus throughout the Church's history saints have committed themselves to lives of poverty and service to the destitute. Our tradition cherishes stories such as St; Francis embracing a leper and St. Ignatius' giving his nobleman's. cloak to a beggar. 
There have always been religious orders within the Church pledged to charity and comforting the suffering of the world. However, since Vatican 
by Kay Tepas 

II, we can notice this ministry of service being especially extended to all the laity. It is common to see parish councils sponsor food collec­tions for the hungry, visits to the elderly, and clothing drives for the poor. 
At Notre Dame I am continu­ally reminded of the Church's call to Social Action by the colorful bul­letins about the next FLOC activity, Urban Plunge deadlines, £asters' Masse~,. Logan Center basketball ticket collections, marches for El Salvador and the like. I admire the qEid.i_cated student,s_who stand through downpour, blizzard, and baking sun with their collection cartons for the world's hungry. I was particularly proud to witness the personal con­cern Fr. Hesburgh and the student body showed to the victims of the Cambodian tragedy. As a student who has a strong tendency toward apathy when considering anything beyond my personal needs, I am grateful for the pricks in my con­science that these examples provide. 
When I see all the suffering going on in the world I feel a little de­pressed with a lump of guilt fester­ing my complacency. It is the Catho~ lie understanding that all of human­kind is related as brothers and ·sis­ters because of our common Father. Through Christ we became adopted sons. If I take this ·seriously I must in some way feel for the large-eyed, bony and 'bloated child in India as I do. for my five-year-old sister going to kindergarten in Ohio. It is an un~ comfortable thought. 
Parallel to this concept of the family of all men is the essential dignity of each individual. In the past there may have been an:. over­emphasis on the sinfulness of man and the condemnation of all outside the Roman Catholic Church. While not denying mankind's need for the risen Savior, the Church now seeks to remind us of our neighbors' di­vinely imparted worth. This dignity can be seen at several levels. It .is originally rooted in man's position as owner of a rational soul and hence the crown of creation. Likewise there is an inherent honor due·all humans because of their resemblance to the image and likeness of God. Further­more, Christ gave a renewed esteem to our whole race by taking on hu­man form. And finally, Christ's union with all men in his spirit obligates us to treat our companions on this planet as we would Christ himself. Jesus comments that "whatever you do to the least of my brothers, that you do unto me." 
In recognizing the sacred dignity of every individual, the Church af­firms a list of basic human rights. The authors of the Vatican II docu­ment on the Church in· the modern world write: 
there is a growing awareness of the exalted dignity proper to the human person, since he. stands above all things, and his rights and duties are universal and inviolable. Therefore, there must be made available· to all, men everything necessary for leading a life truly human, such as food, clothing and shelter; the right to choose a state of life freely, and to found a fam­ily, the right to education, to em­ployment, to a good reputation, to respect, to appropriate informa­tion, to activity in accord with the upright norm .of one's own . con­science; to/protection of privacy and to rig~tful freedom in matters religious too. 
Providing each man the necessities for a dignified existence is a tremen­dous responsibility. Yet when God gave the human race stewardship over his creation, these responsiqili­ties were inherent. With. dominion 
-SCHOLASTIC 


over the land came the task of utiliz­ing the resources for the best ad­vantage of alL It is commonly recog­nized that the poverty and suffering in the world are not due to God's failure to create the world with enough resources but rather man's failure to distribute these resources justly. The Church calls her mem­bers, religious and lay, to rectify the social and economic order. This means we must in some way seek to foster greater justice, · peace, and freedom for every individual while striving for a more international bal­ance of goods. 
I personally am overwhelmed at the task before all who claim to· be Christian. According to the Vatican II documents the Church's responsi­bility for social action specifies our duty to love all men perfectly and to create a just and charitable world order. In hearing this summons I feel like the rich young man who was told by Jesus to give all he owned to the poor in exchange for a treasure in heaven. My instinctive re­sponse is to bow my· head in a mix­ture of sorrow and frustration, turn my back, and walk away. Or, I may be tempted to tell the Church that she is just plain crazy. Cannot I just excuse myself as a member of a fallen race and trust in faith alone to save me? What is this nonsense -about being perfect as God is perfect 
anyway? It would take an omnipo­
tent, omniscient being to restore to 
each man his rightful dignity and to 
resurrect the world order. We are 
only human. 
This is the crux of the. issue. For 

the Church is to be the living Body 
of Christ on earth. Filled with God's 
power and wisdom, the Church is 
called to· bear witness to the divine 
in such a lucid way that the glory will not go to man but back to God. Christians are to love so radically that the workings of the divine Christ himself will be recognized in them. The ability to answer the summons to social action is a test · of the living presence of God in the Church's midst. Recall that Christ tells his followers that apart from him they can do nothing. Thus, the call to works for social justice in be­half of all mankind is a call to true conversion to the power and Truths of Christ in our lives. As John Paul II writes in The Redeemer of Man: 
Being a servant requires so much spiritual maturity that it must really be described as "being a king." In order to be able to serve others worthily and effectively we must be able to master ourselves and possess the virtues that make this mastery possible. 
·In recognizing the importance of spiritual maturity for effective and 
.true Christian social action, the Church warns against some danger­ous distortions of actions on behalf of justice. Without the proper spir­itual wisdom and Christian under­standing it is easy to fall into some less than desirable patterns even when our intentions are good. We all can recall incidents where some­one's efforts to help caused deep inner wounds for the one receiving the charity. In particular I can re­member times where the one giving the help unknowingly destroyed the receiver's senseof self-worth and dig­nity. There is always a danger of falling into a savior com.plex where a haughty pride creates a greater divi­sion in levels of self-esteem, while lessening economic differences. St. Ambrose reprimands this type of giver by stating: 

You are not making a gift of your possessions to the poor person, you are handing to him what is his. For what has been given in com­mon for the use of all, you have arrogated to yourself. 
True charity is done in the recog­nition of one's own guilt and sinful­ness. It is not a cause .for pride, but rather a recognized duty. The one 
cont'd on page 3 6 
19

APRIL, 1981 

: I 
I 
I 
'i 
: I 
\ I 
'! 
I 
I 
:l 
Walker said:  
the world full of aster magnolia bird song Walker strode:  
the road laid on hills hegiralike  
crop picked and sold, barren trees had not begun to bud  
perspective changes-Walker walked:  
the faces did not smile  
(there were a million empty window-eyes ·, in a street  I~  
(half a million empty tongues) head  J  
that bear mind like tacitus said They make a desert  
& call it peace.  
Walker said.  






Eileen O'Meara Michael Gazzerro 

'' 
ii 



I 
I 

" ·~' ------­
.,, 

~ -----~-------~ --­

With Humility and Piety, 




Composer Roger Dickerson Serves His City, Students and the Human Spirit 
n I believe that my work is an expression of inner devotion and freedom; an expression that combines love of art with human relationships and the sense of Godly duty. I see my creativity as a release of my spiritual self and all that that self refiects from the conscious and unconscious worlds we live in and move through.)) 
New Orleans, Louisiana, may be considered "the Birthplace of Jazz"; however, if one ventures to the Cres­cent City to discover what the latest and most innovative forms of musical expression are, he or she at first may well be disappointed. Certainly, the Dixieland Jazz still plays almost every night at Preservation Hall in the French Quarter; yet, the ideas and trends that have pushed jazz on­wards since the early 1920s have not arisen in New Orleans. Mingus, Charlie Christian, Charlie Parker, and most of the jazz greats found their audiences in the North and not in New Orleans. And, of course, 
-Roger Dicke.rson 

Louis Armstrong travelled upriver to find worldwide success. Like Ireland which has witnessed some of her greatest writers leave for the Conti­nent, New Orleans has produced many greats only to watch them move to the North. 
However, living in New Orleans today is a composer of music for many mediums who left the city to study abroad and yet returned to live in New Orleans and to forge a music that synthesizes his experience as a New Orleanian with the traditions of jazz and American and European classical music that lie behind him. Roger Dickerson is a product of a 
by Ken Scarbrough 

very New Orleanian socialization mixed with a very cosmopolitan con­sciousness. Indeed, says Dickerson: 
The only real value we can place on music is the degree to which it expresses the soul of man. I don't care in what form it is written, or how fine a craft it is. Certainly, that warrants some kind of praise. But what is important is the degree to which it reflects the soul of man. 
Judging from the success with which Roger Dickerson has recently had his compositions commissioned and per­formed, his "contributions to the ex­pression of man's soul" are working. And, given the tremendous humility Roger Dickerson possesses, he prob­ably would assert that his composi­tions are only "contributions" to that effort. But, I might add they are significant. · 
In 1976, PBS presented a documen­tary about the genesis of and per­formance of what is probably Roger Dickerson's most widely known work, the "New Orleans Concerto for Piano and Orchestra." The New Orleans chapter of LINKS, Inc., commis­sioned this work in 1974 for per­formance during the bicentennial year, and the work was premiered by pianist Leon Bates and the New Orleans Symphony Orchestra di­rected by the then conductor of the orchestra, Werner Torkanowsky. In the February 28, 1976, Washington Post critic Lon Tuck made these remarks about the concerto: 
The regional aspect is quite ex­plicit in this composition, .... But do not expect travelogue kitsch, a sort of jazzy "Grand Canyon Suite." 
Instead, the concerto is a fresh and engaging variation on the lean 

22 
SCHOLASTIC 



and kinetic three-movement, fast­slow-fast 20th-century concerto format as it has evolved from Ravel to Prokofiev to Bartok to Barber and others. 
Dickerson works within this framework with originality, both dramatic and lyric. The New Orleans element. is one of mood, and most certainly not pictorial. No French Quarter Adagio or Mardi Gras Presto here. A humble background and a di­
verse, humanistic education lie be­
hind the composer's success with the 
"New Orleans Concerto." With his New Orleans, Dickerson had to play both whatever instrument his college ensemble did not possess and what­ever instrument the nonscholarship students did not play. Consequently, by the time Dickerson graduated from Dillard in 1955 with a B. A. in music, he possessed a knowledge of and a proficiency with a large number of brass instruments. The orchestral works of. Dickerson dis­play this understanding of and sym­pathy for a plethora of instruments. 
After receiving his degree from Dillard, Dickerson studied at Indiana University under Bernard Heiden and 
Returning from Europe in the early 1960s, Dickerson spent time in New York: City to establish contacts, and then returned to New Orleans and began playing music in the French Quarter. Simultaneously, he worked upon composing, arranging, and orchestrating his own works. Dickerson's first major work was the "Concert Overture for Orchestra" which was performed in 1964 as part of a symposium of composers of the Western Hemisphere and performed in 1965 by the New Orleans Sym­phony Orchestra. 
Because the New Orleans Sym­

father working as an auto mechanic and his mother a housewife, Dicker­son grew up in an area not far from downtown NewOrleans. Hebegan his musical experiences at a very young age, -inundated with the sounds of relatives and friends who were ama­teur musicians. Beginning with piano lessons, Dickerson expanded his knowledge of a large number of in­struments not . only through involve­ment with high school and _college bands, but also through gigs in jazz bands during. his college summer months. Because he was a scholar­ship student at Dillard University in 
APRIL, 1981 
received his master's in music in 1957. The composer first travelled to Europe enlisted in the U. S. Army. Soon after, he received a Fulbright Fellowship to study composition at the Music Academy of Vienna. Dur­ing 1956 at age 22, Dickerson com­posed his "Sonatina for Piano," which has had an important place in recent piano competitions. Performed in Kennedy Center in January of 1980 as part of a national piano competi­tion, the "Sonatina" will be per­formed this year as part of the American Music National Competi­tion. 
phony wanted to do something to mark the death of Louis Armstrong ,. 
i

in 1971 and because Armstrong did not have a service in New Orleans, Werner Torkanowsky commissioned Dickerson in September of 1971 to compose a sort of requiem for Louis Armstrong. The result is "A Musical Service for Louis Armstrong" pre­miered in January of 1972 and taken on tour by the New Orleans Sym­phony during the same year. Al­though the work can be performed by both orchestra and chorus with the composer using the "color'' and "weight" of the human voice as part 
23 

' . 
-~--------------­

of the orchestra, the requiem is en­tirely musical and is based upon services in the Black Christian Church that are completely musical. Dickerson describes "A Musical Ser­vice for Louis Armstrong" as a way for him to play a "role in facilitating something in a formal nature to mark Armstrong's passing; something within the tradition of the Black Church, even though performance is not in a church." The service pos­sesses a motif that Dickerson claims I ! one can find "all over the place." I,i Sounded especially at the end of the ,. piece, an offstage trumpet plays the i motif "as if Louis himself were off in 
I i the 'cosmic' somewhere answering back." For the composer, the three­note motif that the offstage trumpet articulates came to associate itself with the notion of "Free at Last," but .not only with the "Free at Last" that one -relates with the traditions of the Black Christian Church and the struggle for freedom from slav­ery, but also with Armstrong's free­dom from this "fallen" world of con­tingencies and his entry into "an­other plane of existence." 
In another major work, "Orpheus an' His Slide Trombone," Dickerson yokes together the myth of Orpheus with places and names from the New Orleans area. Written for orchestra and narrator, the piece was first presented in 1975 by the New Orleans Symphony with the actor Roscoe Lee Browne as narrator. The work's literary elements are based upon a short story "Orpheus an' Eurydice" from a collection entitled Rites of Passage by Joanne Greenberg. Al­though Dickerson makes references to life in both "A Musical Service" and "Orpheus," one cannot help thinking after initially hearing these works that the composer is evoking something similar to the notion of "significant form'' found in the aes­thetic theories of the so-called Mod­ernist movement. However, there is no denial of life in favor of pure form in these works. Nor is there an assertion of a belief in the utility of art simply for art's sake. If the life and death of Louis Armstrong are cast as a surface level upon the tra­ditions and mythic elements of the Black Christian Church and the ge­ography of New Orleans is peopled with the world of Greenberg's trans­formation of the Orpheus legend, these associations of life with the mythic suggest a posture of piety that the composer possesses for both "inner and outer reality." There is a tews behind reality for Dickerson ; music becomes one means by which 
24 

"that great source one draws on" manifests itself in this world. The process of creating is not an inven­tion of completely original forms for Dickerson, but an act of "conduct­ing"; an act of consciously and un­consciously acting on a number of different levels of experience. And, contrary to disciples of "significant form," Dickerson sees life and per­sonal experience as integral parts of the creative process. In answer to the frequently asked question, "How long does it take you to write a piece?", Dickerson asserts he often jokingly but at bottom seriously answers: "All of my life; my work is a total of experience of all of that . . . . The whole sweep of experience is present on a piece." Therefore, when we listen to these works, we can per­ceive the creative consciousness of a pious man at work; one for whom 

Roger Dickerson 

the sources of musical inspiration find their home both in the world of his experience as a southern, jazz-in­fluenced, and finally cosmopolitan composer and in the world of a "col­lective unconscious" that informs conscious life. 
Although Dickerson has achieved success as a composer, he neverthe­less continues teaching and giving private lessons in New Orleans. Meet­ing the composer through a mutual good friend who is a senior theory and composition major at Tulane and who is a student of Dickerson, I was immediately struck by 'his ability to tolerate my extremely rudimentary knowledge of German and his will­ingness to attempt ·a conversation with me in that tongue. There is no pedantry or superciliousness in Dick­erson's ·teaching methods; he pos­sesses a keen sense of discerning the level at which the student performs and in leading him on from there. 
Dickerson encourages his students to read extensively about the lives of other composers, artists, and cre­ators. The composition of music can­not occur in a "creative vacuum." One must possess an artistic sensi­bility that is based upon an explora­tion of the lives of other creators. Foremost in Dickerson's teaching is the importance of the individual. Al­though he encourages his students to diversify their encounters with cre­ators of all types, Dickerson finally attempts to inculcate in his students an appreciation of and· an ability to employ their own talents and ideas: 
Central to the success one ever finds in education is the importance of the individual. The student must come to realize that he or she is important and has something im­portant and worthwhile to say and that on the final analysis he or she has to fall back on the self to do anything of importance. It is not the number of books that one reads, one has to fall finally back on the self and do something. Even if one is doing research, 'he or she still has to come up with some­thing from the self. 
And, so, living in New Orleans is a "native son" who has restored to the city some "primacy" in the world of modern music. Able to transform the eighty-odd years of jazz music that originated in New Orleans into almost a mythic expression of the South by synthesizing it with 'his own experiences in graduate study in Indiana and in Europe and with his own familiarity with the Crescent City, Roger -Dickerson has begun to perform a service for New Orleans that may one day resemble Bela Bartok's service to Hungary in his transformations of Hungarian folk songs. Foremost, Roger Dickerson is a humanist, a composer who is ulti­mately very sensitive to the mystery that man is. With piety and humility he fleshes out this mystery in his works; music is "really a microcosm of life; in it is everything that is in life, the harmony, the conflict, the lyrical, the. dramatic...." Firmly rooted both in life and in-the spirit, Dickerson expresses in his·music the mystery that Joanne Greenberg ex­presses in "Orpheus an' _Eurydice" of man the creator living in this fallen world: "The only reason we play so good is 'cause we'.re men. We live an' die an' lose what we love. .... Well, [man] ain't winter-proof, an' .that's for sure. He don't last but a little. While he lasts, though, he· got a powerful back for sorrow." D 
-SCHOLASTIC 

cont'd from page 10 
more workable within the family context than in the broader civil context. 
If responsibility differentiation is the first fundament of Catholic mar­riage, the subordination of wives to their husbands is the second. In Casti Connubii, the 1930 encyclical on Christian marriage, Pope Pius XI spoke of an "ordered love" which implies "the primacy of the husband over his wife ... and the ready sub­mission and willing obedience of the wife." This subordination contains none of the elements of degradation or abject servility that are associated with the term in its modern usage. Stephen Clark points out that "sub­ordination .... simply refers to the order of a relationship in which one person . . . depends upon another person for direction." Loving defer­ence to her husband does not require a woman to be passive or helpless. The vapid, ornamental woman of Victorian romances bears no resem­blance to the ideal wife of .Proverbs 31 who is "clothed with strength and dignity" and "opens her mouth in wisdom." The Christian wife coop­erates with her husband in governing the household, and her contributions are as absolutely vital to its well­being as are those of her spouse. Pope Pius XI described the interde­pendence of a husband and wife in the following terms: "The husband is the head of the domestic body ... the wife is its heart; and as the first holds the primacy of authority, so the second can and ought to claim the primacy of love." 
Critical analysis of the proposals offered by today's reformists reveals attitudes that have come to consti­tute the Zeitgeist of today's secular world. Michael Novak has detected at least two such attitudes in the calls for the ordination of women. The first is a pervasive antinominanism which leads us to scorn all overt manifestations of structure and au­thority (as distinguished from the authority wielded by ideologues whose control over the lives of their followers is perhaps more invidious because it is unacknowledged). A sterile gnosticism which " (denies) sexual differentiation . . . in favor . •. . of a spiritualized, sexually un­

differentiated view of human nature" is a second element of the reform proposals. This latter trend finds ex­pression in modern codes of dress and etiquette as well as in the ubiquitous efforts of feminists ·to eradicate discrimination between the sexes. Finally, one detects in the reformists' rhetoric the same un­flagging procrustean spirit which underlies every radical cause from redistribution of wealth to affirma­tive action. Of course, the arguments of the Church's critics are not de­feated merely by revealing their secular ancestry. Nonetheless, we would do well to pause before jet­tisoning centuries-old traditions in favor of ephemeral worldly trends. 
One of the most persistent com­plaints of feminists is that there is a dearth of models for girls to emu­late. If they will but recognize Her as such, Catholic women have in the Virgin Mary the perfect model for the direction of their lives. The Vir­gin iis not revered by reason of Her forceful guidance of the early Church or of Her resounding sermons to the early Christian community. Count­less cathedrals have been built in her honor, countless hymns of exultant praise have been raised to Her Name, countless paintings and sculp­tures have been fashioned in Her lovely likeness-not because She was a revolutionary, not because She evinced a remarkable independence of thought, not because of Her ex­ceptional business acumen or politi­cal savvy. On the contrary, it was the quite and gentle humility of the Blessed Mother, Her purity, tender­ness and grace, Her compassion and Her absolute obedience to the will of God that moved William Wordsworth to praise Her as "our tainted na­ture's solitary boast." The Virgin Mary is honored as the Mater Do­lorosa of Jesus and as the humble handmaiden of the Lord. Despite the modesty by today's standards of Her accomplishments on earth, the Virgin has had more of an impact on the course of human events than any other woman in history. Perhaps we would do well to heed Pope Paul VI's words when, in 1975, he said, "While in our day the woman advances in social life, nothing is more bene­ficient and more exalting than the example of the Virgin-Mother Mary, who in Her beauty and Her action synthesizes and incarnates the au­thentic values of the spirit of every woman." D 
Madonna Christensen received her 
B.A. in 1978 from Northwestern Uni­versity and will graduate in May from the Notre Dame Law School. 
cont'd from page 11 
when viewed in terms of the mu­tual submission of each of the mar­riage partners to the love of the other. Covenant replaces contract terminology. The sacramental reality of a Christian relationship is stressed. "Thus a man and a woman, who by the marriage covenant of conjugal love 'are no longer two, but one flesh' (Mt. 19:6), render mutual help and service to each other through an intimate union of their persons and of their actions."18 
The sacramental character of Christianity should affect one's un­derstanding of all life. The ordina­tion of women and the role ofwomen in Christian marriage and Christian womanhood in general are not the only issues affected by Christianity's sacramental character. Rather, Chris­tianity itself is a sacrament and, thus, it has the potential to affect every dimension of a Christian's life. 
It is the belief of this writer that the ordination of women is not only right but necessary within the Roman Catholic tradition if the Church hopes to fully realize its sacramental potential. Let the re­creation begin. The Christian sacra­ment awaits realization. Mary of Magdala's news of r~surrection has fallen on the ears of disbelief long ·enough (Mark 16:9-11). It isin the light of the cross and resurrection that she, in the company of our Lord Jesus Christ, Blandina, Teresa of Avila and all of Christ's disciples awaits the Church's response. D 
NOTES 

1Musurillo ed., The Acts of the Christian Martyrs (Oxford: Claren­don, 1972), p. 75. 
2 Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the Ministerial Priesthood 
(Rome: October 15, 11976). TheDec­laration is included inWomen Priests: A Catholic Commentary on the Vati­can Declaration. Edited by Leonard Swidler and Arlene Swidler. This reference is found on p. 38. 
3Ibid., p. 43. 
4 Carroll Stuhlmueller ed., Women and Priesthood: Future Directions 
(Minnesota: The Liturgical Press, 1978), p. 235. 
cont'd on page 36 
APRIL, 1981 
25 






Music 


A ~~FACE" lifT FOR cbe who 


The past three years have not been the best ones for the Who. The 1978 release of Who A re You, their first album since 1975's The Who By Numbers, was marred by the tragic death of Keith Moon, a victim of long years of alcohol abuse. An ill­starred album (the cover photo showed Moon sitting on a chair marked "Not To Be Taken Away"), Who Are You failed to satisfy many hard-core Who fans, and some critics predicted that the Who would break up. 
In 1979 Kenney Jones; onetime drummer for the Small Faces, re­placed Moon amidst cries that no one drummer could fill Moon's shoes. With the release of their live anthol­ogy, The Kids Are Alright, and their English and U.S. tours, the Who ap­peared to be on the road to a strong recovery. fu December, however, the deaths of eleven people in the "human crush" before their concert at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium aroused criticism once more against the Who. On one side they were blamed for the deaths, while on the other side they ,were attacked for their decision to •resume touring. 
But don't pity the Who. Despite 
26 

these tragedies, the band scored some successes during this period. Who Are You received good reviews, and both the album and title single sold well. Apart from the Cincinnati con­cert, the tour was a rousing success, with enthusiastic audiences and stel­lar performances. The tour also proved once and for all that Kenney Jones was now a real member of the Who, combining his own distinctive style with those of the rest of the band and producing an exciting blend. On his own, Pete Townshend recorded Empty Glass, which pro­vided one of 1980's biggest hits, "Let My Love Open the Door," a senti­mental song reflecting the personal nature of his album. 
Face Dances, the Who's latest al­bum and their first studio effort since Who Are You, marks a significant turning point for the band and its music. While much of the album is devoted, as usual, to Townshend's at­tempts to draw out the essence of the "rock life" by illuminating its various aspects, the events of the past three years have caused Town­shend and the Who to grow crea­tively, and to view their lives from a different angle. The combination of 
by Dan Gonzales 

these influences provides the band and its audience with a new perspec­tive, encompassing their past, the present, and prospects for the future. 
Considering the Who's long and illustrious history, changing their perspective on it would seem difficult, if not impossible; for the Who, how­ever, change and continuity are in­separable and constant. The nucleus of what was later to become the Who was a Mod band called the High Numbers, which featured Pete Town­shend on guitar, Roger Daltrey on lead vocals and backing instruments, and John Entwistle on bass guitar. The group had one single, "I'm the Face," which met with little success. 
With the arrival of Keith Moon, who became a member after destroy­ing the drum 'kit during an audition, the band, now known as the Who, began to create a reputat~on for itself as one of Britain's most exciting rock groups. With songs like "I Can't Ex­plain," "Anyway, Anyhow, Any­where;" "Substitute," and "The Kids Are Alright," reflecting the style of mid-sixties British pop, the Who soon builtJ up a large following and established their reputations as rock songwriters. 
SCHOLASTIC 

~. --. .. .... ' '. ' ·, 
. . . 
. . 

1965 heralded the first of many changes for the Who, as they intro­duced "My Generation" to the public. With its provocative, political stance decrying "The Establishment" and its view of the youth culture, the song was quickly adopted as . an anthem for the young. This effort also revealed the other side of Pete Townshend's songwriting ability; along with salable pop, Townshend showed that he could compose per­sonal, • emotional songs. with real meanings and messages. 
The remainder of the '60s was a period of exploration and experimen­tation for the Who, as· the band branched out into a number of dif­ferent musical fields. The Who made a mild attempt to try their hand at psychedelia with the single "Magic Bus," a song which excited some in­terest but did not quite fit the mold. The band also continued its success in pop with 'the release of "I Can See For Miles," which eventually became the ·Who's biggest Top 40 hit. 
Perhaps · the most significant achievements for the Who in the '60s were their live shows, especially at the Monterey Pop Festival and Woodstock, and their introduction of the rock opera Tomrrny in 1968. Al­ready notorious for smashing their instruments at the end of their con­certs, the Who appeared at Wood­stock and !Monterey Pop and pro­ceeded to steal both shows with their electric performances of Tammy and their earlier hits. 
Tommy, however, proved to be the crowning triumph for the Who in the '60s. Never before had a rock band attempted any project of the magni­tude of Tommy, and the rock opera established a standard of excellence for future ones to meet. With the telling of rthe s'tory of a deaf, dumb, and blind boy's struggle to become a full person, the Who was recognized as one of the most innovative rock bands of that time. The effort was also a courageous one, due to the anti-drug stance the band took in 
Tommy. 
After these successes, the Who spent most of their time performing Tommy live in England; it was dur­ing this time that Keith Moon began to establish his unorthodox style, both in his drumming and his de­stroying of hotel rooms. It was also during this time that the luster and magic of the "summer of love" began to wear off and be replaced with the disillusionment of the political strife which ensued. 
The Who, and Townshend in par­ticular, took a dim and cynical view of the events of these years ; as a re­sult, the band recorded Who's next in 1971, considered by many to be their finest album, one of the best albums of the '70s, and the definitive state­ment on the fading of the dream of "peace and love." With biting lyrics and sharp instrumentals, the album produced such classics as "I'm in Tune," "Baba O'Riley," and the sardonic "Won't Get Fooled Again." The final line of the album sums up the charge made by Townshend and the Who that the struggle of the '60s made absolutely no difference at all: '·'Meet the new boss/Same as the old boss." 
The end result of this period was that the music of the Who reflected a more individual sentiment, not one of idealism but of introspection, Thus, the Who's next studio project, in 1973, was an artistic attempt to re­count the mood of the early '60s from the eyes of someone on the fringes of rock, society, and his own sanity. Called Quadrophenia, the al­bum was hailed as one of the most accurate insights into the British Mods and Rockers, and soon became the Who's most commercially suc­cessful production. 
Continuing in this more relaxed 
vein, The Who By Numbers took a 
light lookl at the pitfalls of beirig a 
· rock· star in such songs as "Success Story" and "However Much I Booze." Included also in the album were more ser.ious attempts at introspec­tion by Townshend, such as "Imagine a Man" and "Slip Kid," along with the pop novelty of "Squeeze Box." Between The Who By Numbers and Who Are You, the Who suffered various setbacks due to the alco­holism of Keith Moon. In a wa:ke of destroyed rooms and cancelled con­certs, Moon was finally convinced to receive treatment for his problem, so long latent. Successfully completing his treatment, Moon returned to the Who in 1978 for the making of Who Are You, an album having much in common with its immediate prede­cessor. Songs such as "Who Are You,» "Music Must Change," and "Guitar and Pen" revealed much of the Who's concern for the personal aspect of rock and the newfound but short-lived energy of Keith Moon. With the death of Moon, a new door to the future was opened up for the Who. Not surprisingly, then, Face Dances is somewhat different from the Who's previous efforts; the addition of Jones and the experience of the last few years and its perspective have made their influence on the Who's music readily apparent. What is surprising is the ease with which the older Who styles and the new changes have blended. The album at once reaffirms the Who's ability to uncover the essence of rock while in­corporating the newer influences. Musically, Face Dances is similar to Who Are You, The Who By Num­bers, and Townshend's Empty Glass, with regard to the use of keyboards; this emphasis is readily seen in the similarity between "Let My Love Open the Door" and "You Better You cont'd on page 36 

27

APRIL, 1981 
' ­
. . 

Mark McMahon: A Marked Man Among Notre Dame Netters 
11,'_ 
When you play NUMBER 1 at NOTRE DAME in ANY sport, it goes without saying that you're under the gun. But when you're a freshman tennis phenom from Cali­fornia who suddenly strides into South Bend and strokes his way past all the established juniors and se­niors without losing a set en route to the #1 spot, there would seem to be

,i 
little more you can do (or say) to

I 
upset your foes. And yet, when you hear this deed was done by a lad not more than 5'9½" (in platform tennis shoes) and 135 lbs. (after a starchy dining hall dinner) you're likely to wager he has incurred the ire of his Irish teammates as much, if not more than that of his opponents. So imagine your amazement when you 
28 

find his toppled teammates are in­stead unanimous in their admiration and respect of the young upstart, and praise among all things the brash young man's modesty. For this man is also a McMahon, and about the only thing rarer than modesty in an Irishman is modesty in an Irish tennis player. 
Walking softly and carrying a big racket, Mark left tremendous im­pression on foes as a freshman, com­piling a 16-7 ledger against some of the toughest tennis studs in the country for Notre Dame, as the team itself forged a formidable 20-3 record on the way to an Eastern Collegiate Tennis Crown. And after a summer of tuning up his tennis (with long­time coach Ben Press) and toning up 
by Tom O'Toole 

his tan (a subject on which, in his hometown of San Diego, one can get lots of wonderful advice) Mark is ready to lead the team to an even better ledger this season; a year older and wiser, if not heavier. 
And yet, despite the fact that the Irish have lost only the irrepressible Carlton Harris, the colorful captain of last year's squad, Mark realizes that even equaling last year's record will not only not be easy, but very nearly impossible. For this spring, the Notre Dame Netters embark upon their most ambitious (thirty­three matches, twenty-five of them away) schedule ever, of which the making or breaking point may well be a gruelling ten-day, ten-match swing through .the treacherous ten­nis territory of southern California, culminating with two ·grudge matches against two schools that let Mc­Mahon get away in sunny San Diego. 
Though Mark's homecoming could very well spell a rude Irish reawak­ening to the almost professional cali­ber of college tennis in California, McMahon remains unworried, posi­tive about whatever outcome the trip may have. Admitting that the ten­day marathon of matches will be un­like anything he has ever done be­fore, McMahon nevertheless pre­dicted that the constant topflight competition they would face during this brief time span in mid-March (a period most students refer to as spring break!) would raise the team's level of play, not to mention their stamina, to such a degree that it would make the rest of the season a piece of cake by comparison. 
The main. events, and hopefully, the highlights of the trip, will be matches against Southern California, San Diego State, and the University of San Diego, whose team Mark knows almost as well as his own, having hit against every member at one time or another. An added at­traction for the Irish will be the hordes of fans that attend these matches, in contrast to the sparse tennis audiences at ND and around the Midwest. Mark, often the senti­mental favorite because of his size, 
SCHOLASTIC 


enjoys playing in front of the masses, especially his hometown crowd in San Diego. He keeps the fans in per­spective though, pointing out that "for every match you play in front of a lot of people, you play fifty in front of next to no one. So I usually try to block out everything else and just concentrate on what's going on on the court." 
As for the match with Southern California, the most despised Irish gridiron opponent of all time as well as a breeding ground for tennis pro­fessionals, Mark is even more philo­sophical, saying only, "They have to show up and hit the balls just like everyone else." 
But as any weekend rallyer knows, to "hit the balls" as Mark McMahon does requires more than just show­ing up. Falling in love with the game at an early age, Mark began seri­ously courting the sport since he was twelve, when he began hanging around San Diego's famed Morley Park, a place which has produced such Tennis standouts as "Little Mo" Connolly and Brian Treacher. As soon. as his talent began to match his enthusiasm his parents faithfully took up the cause, financing his ex­cursions on the Junior Tennis Cir­cuit. Unlike many a tennis parent, the McMahons left the sideline coaching chores aside from their duties, remaining behind their son without becoming asses themselves. So Mark was often on his own, and judging from results, much the bet­ter for it. As he recalls, "In the 12's (the twelve years old and under tournaments) you see a lot of the really evil tennis parents, always standing right at courtside, cutting down the kid, telling him exactly what to do." This situation, however, is often quickly reversed. "By the 16's, it's usually the kid telling the parent where to go." 
In contrast to the selfish world of the tennis brat or the lonely life of the touring pro, playing for a school such as Notre Dame tends one's concerns toward the team's perform­ance instead of their own, while the team in turn provides the camara­derie necessary to wipe out the feel­ing of isolation of the individual competitor. "One of the reasons we've been so successful is that there are no big egos on the team," says Mark. "Anyone can say anything to anyone else, and not have to worry about them taking it the wrong way." As for himself, Mark men­tions "I can't afford to be ·moody, because then my moodiness would affect everyone else. If I'm down someone will always come and pick_ 
APRIL, 1981 
me up, so if someone else has a bad match, I'm going to go kid around with them. In an individual sport like tennis where you're always com­peting against one another, it's un­usual to see sixteen guys as close as we are." Or who win more often. 
But if there is a glue that holds together these diverse strands of tennis talent, it is the grand old man of Irish tennis, coach Tom Fallon. He has amassed an incredible 362­132 record in his twenty-four years as the Irish tennis mentor even though he was never much of a player himself. Mark agrees with the coach's assessment that "by the time a player gets to college he pretty much has his strokes down anyway, so there's not much the coach can usually do for him." 
Fallon is, however, a master of tennis strategies and personalities. Always quick with the compliment, the Irish coach and politician says McMahon's return of serve is a shot "you really have to see" and is "very close to Jimmy Connors'." When con­fronted by this statement, Mark just shrugs and says "you have to say stuff like that to put in the Tennis Guide," though from my own wit­ness I can attest to the fact that there is a significant amount of truth in it. 
But Fallon can also be very frank about a player's faults, as when he went up to Mark after a tough base­line loss last year and told him he would never beat a .#1 player if he didn't learn to volley. "I was really mad then that he had the gall to say that," remembers Mark. "But I was even madder because he was right." 
It is perhaps not surprising then to learn that the biggest lesson Mark has learned from tennis is patience. Not only does his baseline style of play demand it, but endless winter conditioning, windy and wet South Bend springs, and long and winding road trips in cramped vans serve to reinforce it. And although he embraces this• life now for the sake of the game and Notre Dame, we can also perhaps see why he has few anxieties about the day when tennis will be but a sideline of life again. "The only thing that I'll re­gret will be losing to the people I once could beat," he states. 
That time is still a long time off though, and if patience is Mark's biggest virtue, spare time is his rar­est commodity. For after compiling tennis stats on the court and study­ing business stats in the classroom, Mark has precious few moments alone. And when he does, there's usually only one thing he can do. 
"I'll turn on the stereo, start reading the paper, and veg out," he confides. "When you're as busy as I am, you don't know how much you begin to value vegging." 
But now is not the time for veg­ging, as Mark prepares with his wily Irish coach to lead his fellow racketeers through their wild West shootouts and back again to face their windy Midwestern matches, and hopefully to pick up another Eastern Conference Title along the way. Playing before a few full houses would be okay too, but as Mark and many Notre Dame athletes have told me, there is only one fan that matters. And whether on or off the court, He's ALWAYS #1. 

"Although  I  know  He's  always  
there," says Mark, "I don't ask Him  
to  help  me  win  matches  or  even  
specific points. I just ask Him that  
I  do  as  well  as I  can.  That way I  
figure I give Him a lot of open ends."  
Our  Lord,  who  like  Mark  also  
likes to call his own shots, is sure to  
appreciate that. He may not grant  
McMahon  the  old  tennis  player's  
prayer that "the wind be always at  
your back, and the sun always in the  
other  guy's  eyes,"  but  Our  Most  
Merciful "line" Judge is sure to pro­ 
vide Mark with a good court -to prove·  
his dedication. And a  good court is  
all Mark really needs. For once on it,  
McMahon's patient play has proved  
to be his own way of turning "open ends'' into happy endings. D  j, i  

29 

' ' ­
~-~--~ -----~~ -~---­




-. 
-

Poetry 
Empty Reflections 
Home 

Cathedral under sky lying naked, unexploited You carry the juice of virgins the juice of everyman Sweet fertile sea you've worn a mountain down like the incessant sun on our back all day long. Now, pools of mountain water from above continue on and on back and forth, outward, and this man stares at you as if the sea's lines were a woman's body pressed soft against his own 

Awaiting Sunshine 
The trees complained all afternoon stooped with ice tomorrow, appeased, they'll be talking after having worked so hard 
by Michele Strohman 


:Ruins 

Standing there, she greets me:with a smile revealing the yellow-skinned wrinkles fatigued lining expressions; 
Stripped of any spirit and ornaments that once fired her appearance Her feeble steps are wearily difficult as she gropes for · a railing; that does not exist. . Decrepit arthritic hands reach out for those that have neglected her . Leavinglonesomemonotonoushours of ill spent afternoons. Memories ramble from her lips as she talks of rusted antiquities . Until her strength runs dry and her curfew passes its daily routine that betrays her wisdom. 
by Patricia Lott 
Have you ever just been sitting there 
watching faces in the window 
and they're passing right through you 
But you tell yourself it's not real -only an image ­
And their faces change but yours 
doesn't except sometimes when it 
doesn't look like your face and 
You think maybe_ it's someone else 
but it doesn't move and it just stares 
back at you with fleeting faces in it 
So sometimes they're yours and 
sometimes they're not but 
Anyway you watch them and they're 
ugly because you can look right 
through them and see the wall 
behind the faces which you can't break 
through -only beat against -and 
The blood from the beating drips 
down the wall and after all this time 
still doesn't soak in and it's 
ugly so you turn your head 
But the·faces still stare 
at you and the blood 
still drips and you 

think that if you just 
Think hard enough they'll 
go away so you think 
hard and you look out 
and the faces are still 
There 

and the bloody wall's still 
Beating  
Behind  
Except  
you're  gone  
and  you  don't  know  
Where  



Dissolution of an Intellect 
Limpid, trarislucerit, cascading green babbles, 
"Approach child, abandon the shore's shackles, plunge with me." Swirling crystalline waters envelope him in fluid dulcet 
discourse spiraling to knotty precipice Leaping Pride to plummeting abyss 
Stricken, by piercing penetrating granite 
He is swallowed, consumed -in contaminated, putrid, . rancid muck Suffocated. Others stand -Hearts ripped open bleeding heavy hollow lamentations His languishing cries drown to the whimper of an annihilated corpse. 
by Jeannette DeCelles 
SCHOLASTIC 

. . , . . • l .. -. "'I • • • • ' 
. . 




Sunset 
by Genevieve O'Connor 
Spirit Breath and Flame 
,To the martyrs of El Salvador 
A sunset burst in blood a pain-racked flame and through the candlewick there came the breath of someone dying 
Spirit breath and flame 
Incense of a smouldering wick, snuffed, body crushed rose and wine perfume 
•flowing wound Man above 
exalted 
a cross fell out of Eden coldest linen wrapt white deepest night 
THEN morning came sun burst clay jars asunder unto RESURRECTION 
wind and light exalting came 
Spirit breath and flame 
rains down strength · sky heights bending a cross the fields of Easter burnished glory in the sun 
Spirit breath and flame 

APRIL, 1981 
_____,______ 


~.~........ 
~~:·:_. ._ . ·.• ·~~-~..... ~ 
' ".: ,·..-~ ..
. 

·-·.~_: ; ,_-.-' -~\_7 
f':j~r,;_.~:,,_':': ':s;;, 
.. ­

~~ ....~J•..··~··... ~ ...•~· t.,1.•• . ~•1; "'~~ -~~ 
I <' • , 
H •~ 
: ·,~ ~:)-~;..•~.-.:~~.; 
,, 
33 




Perspective 
We are a wandering people, we people who come here. We wander from some established place, to es­tablish ourselves here. And when four years have passed we wander somewhere else, only to establish a new place, only to wander again. Soon my four years will be over here, and it will be time to move else­where. 
It is challenging to think of what has most influenced my time here and what impressions I will take with me when the journey continues someplace else. It will be easy to re­count experiences of friends, foot­ball games, or just long walks on sunny days, but the things that shape the way a person thinks, the way he feels, the way he reacts to his world around him seem to lie a little deeper. These things may be with us for a long time, and slowly rise to the surface to capture or color our views, or they may be experiences that in an instant of time shatter our beliefs and leave us somehow dif­ferent. 
I have never been to Cambodia, but the word itself represents to me something very meaningful. I first heard of the country when I was in grammar school. I was one of those types who had to know every capital, country and prime minister.· (This 

Ideas) Events) and 
Four Years of Change 
odd penchant has remained with me and I daresay that I am one of the few people in the Western Hemi­sphere who knows or cares that Ulan Bator is the capital of Mon­golia.) In 1975 one of ,the most ghastly and gruesome genocides ever to occur was witnessed in rthis small country. In an attempt to create a fundamentally new society every remnant of the former civilization from schools to hospitals was de­stroyed. And the same was true of the people. Anyone with more than four years of education, whether he be radical or reactionary, was elimi­nated. Over two-sevenths of the peo­ple perished in probably the most massive attempts at extermination in history. Two million eggs were cracked to form the perfect omelet. 
Slowly, reports from refugees came from tne Thai border. This was the only source of information, as vir­tually no foreign reporters were al­lowed into the country until the Vietnamese incursion in late 1979. The picture being painted was more and more grim. Clearly something needed to be done. For my own part I wrote to Congressmen, Senators, and President Carter of the serious­ness of the situation and began writ­ing commentaries in the Observer and other newspapers in 1978. To me it was clear that as human beings we 
by Dan Moore 

had an obligation to learn the les­sons that the twentieth century had so cruelly wrought upon us. I kept asking older people whether or not we would have tried to stop Hitler if we knew he was butchering 6 million Jews, or Stalin if we knew that he was condemning to death 800,000 men and women every month in the thirties. I had a lot to learn. 
Responses were limited. I was not so naive as to be unaware of the sacred taboos involved in violating a nation's sovereignty, nor of the tragic consequences of mixing a fun­damentally· noble cause (from our point of view) with unrealistic ex­pectations as were involved in Viet­nam. And still there were things that we could have done. Yet nobody wanted to hear about Cambodia; some liberals such as Anthony Lewis were actually applauding the trans­formation and enrichment of a whole society. George McGovern, to his credit, stood up boldly and asked the UN to send a task force there. His plea fell on deaf ears. Israel and South Africa were to remain the only two states with official UN villain status. Where ·was the ra­tionale? · 
After the. Vietnamese incursion and takeover, good press was made of Cambodia because journalists and photographers with an eye for hard 
SCHOLASTIC 

sell were allowed into the country. Pictures of a society turned upside down were sent over the cables as a shocked world watched in silerice. At Notre Dame students responded in the best tradition and raised money and hope for those in duress on the other side of the globe. And soon the cameras focused on something else, and soon Kampuchea/Cambodia was a forgotten land again. Where was the rationale? · 
Today we wanderers are zeroing in on El Salvador-this year's cause. For the life of me I cannot under­stand the Solidarity movement. Surely the only sensible course is to support a moderate government with a chance of bringing peace and re­storing land reform in a land where there is no right answer. The left has its wants and needs and is con­vinced of its moral superiority, the same is true of the right, and of the government, and of Notre Dame students. Surely not all of these groups can be corred. No rational solution is going to be found here, just as norie was found in Iran, or Nicaragua, or Vietnam. · 
These moral causes fought across the battleground of the twentieth century were ephemeral yet stained with the blood of some of the best­intentioned inen. They have gone far 
.APRIL, 1981 
in destroying an innocence that placed its faith jn progress, tech­nology, and that ultimate false god: rationality. I have come to realize that the lessons we must learn from the great forces of inhumanity in the twentieth century are not that we must stop them for this would be an impossible task. Rather, I have learned that these forces spring from the very foundation that an impersonal, reason-based world has created and will thus be wit!! us for a very long time. 

I 

As we look forward from this point we encounter many doomsay­ers. There are many trends and cur­rents seething and brewing beneath the surface of our world, and many assure us that we sit atop a Mt. St. Helens-in-waiting. Some believe that as nuclear weapons become more available every year, the chances of a holocaust ·wm become increasingly dangerous. Others say that the end of the world as we know it will come with the depletion of our natural resources throwing all into a gigantic fray to get what is left. Still others assert that our environment, pol­luted beyond the habitable point, will dho u_s .in long . before this. 'J'.he Mal­t us1ans continue to predict that the massive increase in population is I the real cause for coricern. Another group predicts that as the growing Third World becomes more in touch with the "common heritage of man­kind'' ·significant changes in the dis­tribution of goods will cause an end to a life _of liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
It would be fitting at this point to say that these challenges are no greater than before, and that we graduates must face them and re­solve them, but this would contra­dict the essence of what I have learned in my four years. Any hu­mane response must be a :rational one, but rationalism quickly turns 1into a rationalization of any cause, from Idi Amin's idea of paradise to the crusade to Keep America Clean. 
We are a wandering people, we people who leave here. We will wan­der on •the byroads and side streets of the twentieth century, but our journey has no end. Once there was an end, a vision of something above humanity, but that vision has been all but destroyed by nineteenth~ and twentieth-century ideas of rational­ism, liberalism, Marxism, and even the Church has contributed to its demise. Today with no "light at the end of the tunnel" my only hope is that all of us here will wander in peace. 
I 
-----~~~...-..-, ·-··-.: '•_.· ,:. _·.,. v•.:' '",__ .j 
35 

' ~-~------------------------­
,i 



The Who 
cont'd from page 21 
Bet," as the synthesized keyboards play a central part in both songs' in­troductions and choruses. The album does, however, display a variety of styles and motifs not employed on the other albums, ranging from the heavy-metal sound of "You" and "The Quiet One" to the near-reggae syncopation of "Did You Steal My Money?" All in all, the album is a pleasant mix of a number of diverse styles, some of them possibly im­ported along with Kenney Jones, which are performed confidently and competently. Perhaps the only com­plaint that can be made is that the songs are performed too competently, lacking the intensity of feeling that has always characterized the Who; nevertheless, there are emotion­filled moments which contradict the charge that the Who's music has been blase ever since Roger Daltry and Pete Townshend reconciled the long-standing enmity they held for each other through the band's early 
years. 
In light of what the Who's music has represented on earlier record­ings, Face Dances is a fairly even mix of retrospection and looking to the future; the lyrics tend to follow in the paths forged in Wlw A re Yau and The Wlw By Numbers, but re­flections on the past tend to be col­ored by the Who's new perspective, and there is added emphasis on the implications of the past for the -fu­ture, especially on the Who's per­sonal level. The only aspect of the Who's music which has tended to re­main the same is the style of John Entwistle's compositions. Entwistle's two contributions to the album, "The Quiet One" and "You," display his 
cont'd from page 25 
5John P. Meier, On the Veiling of Hermeneutics. This article is con­tained in the Catholic Biblical Quar­terly (Catholic Biblical Assoc., Vol. 40, No. 2, April, 1978), p. 226. 
6lbid., p. 226. 
7Stuhlmueller, Women and Priest­hood, p. 50. 8Ibid., p. 52. 0Walter M. Abbott, S.J., General 
ed., The Documents of Vatican II (Chicago: Follett Puhl. Co., 1966), Gaudium et Spes, p. 201. 
36 

characteristic biographical humor, as he describes the archetypal bitch in "You": "Your arms are open but your legs are crossed." 
The songs of Pete Townshend make up the rest of the album, com­prising a mixed bag of quality and styles. The most forgettable song on Face Dances is "Cache Cache," with its shifting tempos and undecipher­able lyrics, including the memorable 
· line, "There ain't no bears in there." Townshend does redeem himself, however, on songs like the mellow and complacent "Don't Let Go The Coat," the wronged-but-defiant reg­gae of "Did You Steal My Money?" and the anthem of record-industry confusion, "Another Tricky Day." With these songs, Townshend elu­cidates the predicaments of the rock life with tongue-in-cheek ac­curacy. If for no other reasons, Face Dances is worth buying for three songs: "You Better You Bet," "How Can You Do It Alone," and "Daily Records." "You Better You Bet" has thus far received the most airplay and has gained much popularity for its pop styling and "catchiness"; it also, however, provides a clear in­sight into the relationship of the Who's past and future, as Town­shend states that he's "dealing with a memory that never forgets" and gets drunk "to the sound of old T. Rex and Who's next,'' while remi­niscing with his love about the old days and showing his need for his love to "shove me back into line." "How Can You Do It Alone" is a commentary on responsibility which is also an indictment of the inability to care for people. With a style close to the Beatles' "Fixing a Hole," Townshend asks, "I know there's no 
10Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the Min­isterial Priesthood, pages 43, 45 of the Swidler ed. (see note #2). 
llIbid., pp. 43-44. 
12Alexander Jones, General ed., The Jerusalem Bible (New York: Doubleday and Company, Inc., 1966), Gal. 3:27-28. 
13James Coriden, ed., Sexism, and Church Law: Equal Rights and Af­firmation Action (New York: Paul­ist Press, 1977), p. 124. 
14lbid., p. 125. 

name for what you go through,/ But how can you do it alone?" In the end, the responsibility falls on both the witness and the actor, and the guilt must eventually also be shared. 
Summing up the spirit of the al­bum, "Daily Records" is a playful­serious jab at the life of old rock stars like the Who. At the same time, Townshend also brings under scru­tiny the prospects for the future, and reveals an ambiguous legacy be­queathed by the past. Looking at his life now, Townshend sees that "they say its just a stage in life/ But I know by now the problem is a stage." He laments the confusion of changes in his life, saying "I just don't know quite how to wear my hair no more," but "I know by now I'm never gonna change." Reflecting on his life, Town­shend realizes "now we're in the 'eights,/ I'm unaware of any differ­ence," but also can see the reality of other viewpoints: "When you're eleven the whole world's out to lunch." 
As a whole, the overall . effect of the song's lyrics is enhanced by the variety of musical styles used in the song, from the Dr. Seuss-like chorus of "Fade in, fade out," to the Spanish mandolin introduction with its Latin meter, to the light-hearted country­western banjo break. .t\fter all is said and done, the whole scene becomes irrelevant while at the same time absolutely necessary as a way of life. Townshend and the Who mark well the life they know, and Face Dances is now the sum of that life: some­times scary, sometimes ironic, some­times confusing, but still irreplace­able like the love it breeds. · O 
10Swidler, Women Priests: A Cath­olic Commentary on the Vatican Dec­laration (New York: Paulist Press, 1977), p. 300. 
10Alla Bozarth-Campbell, Woman­priest: A Personal Odyssey (New York: Paulist Press, 1978), p. 158. 
17Encyclical of Pope Pius XI on Christian Marriage, 1931, pp. 5, 8, 11. 
18The Documents of Vatican II, Gaudium et Spes, p. 250. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Social Justice 
cont'd from page 19 
giving recognizes that he or she is also a receiver forever indebted to God. Furthermore, the giver gains much from _his offering, no matter how small. Christian social action guards against the honor or glory falling upon human shoulders. We are to keep a humble stance and re­turn all the glory to God. Of our­selves we have nothing with which to save. It is Christ Jesus who is savior. 
Christian social justice must also be tempered with mercy and forgive­ness. The present Pope warns against programs that ignore these vital ele­ments. 
although they continue to appeal .to the idea of justice, nevertheless experience shows that other nega­tive forces have gained the upper hand over justice, such as spite, hatred, and even cruelty. In such cases, the desire to annihilate the enemy, limit his freedom, or even force him into total dependence, becomes the fundamental motive 

for action. (On the Mercy of God) Forgiveness of enemies and respect for the dignity of all men must never be separated from action for justice. 
In a similar manner, Christian jus­tice cannot be equated to each indi­vidual simply having the claim to his or her own rights fulfilled. Social action must not be reduced to a cold, mechanical movement which feeds off humans' selfish demands for their just due. It must be imperme­ated with a self-sacrificing love which fosters the same love in all that it comes in contact with. 
Furthermore, efforts to create an improved world order must not dis­tract from the supremacy of the spiritual order. Or stated differently, the Church is to strive to draw men into eternity with God and not allow temporal efforts to distract from this. After Jesus fed thousands with the loaves and fishes he warned them not to work for the food that cannot last, but rather for the food that en­dures to eternal life: Himself, the bread of life (Jn. 6). The Church seeks to show all men that complete happiness cannot be found in mate­rial possessions, nor even perfect health or earthly freedom. These are all limited, imperfect goods and will never provide total fulfillment. Only in God can anyone attain complete satisfaction. And perfect joy is not to be expected before union with God in eternity. 
Social Action is only the beginning of the Church's ministry. Healing temporal wounds and providing ma­terial possessions are a small portion of the fullness of Christ's love for man. The totality of God's love that the Church must witness to is re­vealed in the crucifixion and resur­rection of Jesus Christ. For in this final act of love the remedy was pro­vided for the source of all disorder and misery in the world. Sin itself was ·answered for. Christ came to heal the sick, let the blind see, make the lame walk,_ feed the hungry, and confer dignity on the scorned. But primarily he became man to set the captives of sin free. . 
Kay Te'J)as is a senior in Sociology and is working toward a certificate in social work. 

Christian Business 
cont'd from.page 1'1 
Ultimately, however, the person who practices this radical Christian­ity will be much happier for doing so than those who are caught up in their worldly desires for riches and things of the world which pass away. A good example of this can be seen in Howard Hughes. Once the richest man . in the world, Hughes could have had anything he wanted yet he died as a miserable deformed wretch. On the other hand, -St. Francis . of Assisi lived in complete poverty and died naked on the cold damp ground, yet he was the happiest person there could be. It is the businessman who follows Christ's words who will be the better for it. 
Finally, we must ask ourselves again, "Is it possible to be a Chris­tian in the business world?" The answer, I think, is yes. ·However, many difficulties face Christians in 
APRIL, 1981 
today's business world and it is not easy to be a Christian in an environ­ment that is not always conducive to Christianity. A good model to hold up for businessmen is St. .Thomas More. He was a very capable man serving England faithfully yet he was also very faithful to his Church. He was a man who prayed for an hour each morning and drew strength from the Mass so that when the deci­sion came between serving God and serving his country he chose God over his own country and his own life. 
As Christians, businessmen also must see God as the end which they are striving for and their business activity only as a means to that end. Ultimately, God's will is more im­portant than man's desires. For this reason, maybe St. Francis can also be a good model for the businessman. The son of the wealthiest merchant in Assisi, he gave up his j6b as an accountant for his father, whom he would eventually succeed, and lived a -life of complete poverty. He did so because this was God's will for him. So. too must the Christian busi­nessman be subject to God's will no matter what it be, so that "-thy will be _done" is not rendered meaning­less. Ultimately, there is only one mistake in life. . 
FOOTNOTES 

1Documents of Vatican II-The Church in the Modern World Ch 3 Section 1. · ' 
2Ibid., Ch. 3, Section 1. 
Rich Preuss is currently working to­ward an M.A. in Theology. He is a member of the Notre Dame class of 1980 and houls a B.A. in Finance. 
37 




Vatican 
cont'd from page 1 
John's central vision of the Church and his great pastoral sensitivity were in danger of being wasted at the Council by his own conservatiive curial appointments to the prepara­tory commissions. These commis­sions had been responsible for draw­ing up the prelim,inary schemata which, after going through the long conciliar process of debate, revision, and voting, would become the official Council documents. Many feared that the original seven schemata sub­mitted to the Council by the prepara­tory commissions would prove un­workable toward meetiing the pro­gressive needs of the Church. The work of revising and rewriting the texts was to be handled by commis­sions which paralleled the prepara­tory commissions -except that they would be restaffed mostly by elected members. 
However, the conservative pre­paratory commissions had also sub­mitted for approval to the bishops their own list of candidates to be ekcted to· fill the continuing com­missions. The pastorally minded bish­ops, encouraged by Pope John in his opening address, disassociated them­selves from the curia's "gloomy" planning. At the beginning of the first session they rejected the pro­posed ltst of candidates and set about electing their own representatives. 
Two of the prepared documents dealing with liturgy and social com­munication were, in fact, favorably received. The crucial document deal­ing with revelation, however, met with stiff opposition because of its unecumenical, traditionalistic tone and content. A vote was taken on whether or not to reject the docu­ment altogether. The bishops indeed favored this rejection but by a little less than the required two~thirds ma­jority. John himself directly inter­vened in the conciliar process to re­ject the document and set up his own commission to cfyaft a new one. 
This emergent progressive party 
was further protected and directed 
in papal-approval speeches by Cardi­
nals Suenens and Montini. These 
speeches were extraordinarily well­
received by the bishops. In them, 
John's developed vision can be dis­
cerned as being adopted by the Coun­
cil Fathers: The Council was to 
focus on the Church in a twofold 
way, on its own deep inner mystery 
and on its relationship to the world. 
Further, there was to be a triple 
dialogue between the Church and her 
faithful, ecumenically with the sepa­rated brethren, and With the con­temporary world. The Council was to answer the question: Church of Christ, what do you say of yourself? 

Pope John XXIII died on June 3, 1963, and Giovanni Battista Montini became Pope Paul VI on June 21. Paul, known to be John's own choice as his successor, quickly announced his intention to continue the Council with the same basic thrust. Empha­sizing ecumenism, he apologized to non-Catholics for any of the faults of the split which belonged to Catho­lics. Paul took a number of concrete actions affirming his progressive at­titude toward the CounciL He liberal­iz~d the rules governing the Council, lowering the necessary two-thirds vote majority to a simple majority, appointing progressive floor debate leaders, inviting more non-Catholics, laymen and for the first time, allow­ing women and press to come. He also informed the curia that they would neither oppose nor resist the reform that was coming. 
The second session, though discuss­ing a number of things, was charac­terized by an intense struggle over the key issue of the coll,egiality of Pope and bishops in the central docu­ment on the Church. Conservatives were very much opposed and effec­tively delayed the process. In a con­troversial move, the progressive floor leaders called for a direct vote on five separate statements involved in the issue but separate from the docu­ment. Such a maneuver was opposed by the conservatives, but allowed, though not in the future. Overall, the 

He liberalized the rules governing the Council, ..., inviting more non­Catholics, laymen, and for the first time, allowing women and press to come. 
bishops showed themselves to be very much in favor of the doctrine. In actuality, collegiality was misper­ceived by conservatives to be a new development. Not only was it ancient, iit was also essentially a part of the theological understanding even voiced by the official spokesman of Pius IX at Vatican I, of papal infallibility. Though the progressives had won, the conservatives still delayed the discussion on other important mat­ters, among them ecumenism. Pope Paul, showing a great deal of pa­tience, did not decisively intervene. In the case of ecumenism, dialogue with non-Catholics had to wait, while Paul VI encouraged unsuccessfully the prior necessity of a spirit of dia­logue within Catholicism. 
Pope Paul can be seen here de­veloping what would remain the chief characteristic of his papacy: Above all else, unity within the Church was absolutely essential for the implementation of the Council and the survival of the Church. Pope Paul also greatly emphasized the role of the papacy as a moral .force for peace in -international affairs. Later on in the Council, he would address the United Nations in per­son. An apostle to the Gentiles, and striving to be all things to all people, both conservatives and progressives, made his choice of the name Paul perceptively prophetic. 
As a result of Paul's policy, the progressives became somewhat con­fused and disenchanted. Although there was a last-minute move against the Decree on the Instruments of Social Communication, possibly as a liberal backlash, it and the Constitu­tion on the Sacred Liturgy were the first documents officially promul­gated at the end of the second session. 
The third session began the com­
pletion of the Council's twofold focus 
on the Church. After the inner mys­
tery had been considered, discussion 
began on schema 13 which dealt with 
the Church in her concrete historical 
relationship in and to contemporary 
society. Schema 13 eventually would 
become the Pastoral Constitution on 
the Church in the Modern World. 
Discussion also began on the com­pletely new document on revelation, which had been prepared by a spe­cial commission set up by John XXIII after the first one had been rejected in· the first session. The ex­tremely important Decree on Ecu­menism was also considered and at the end of the third session promul­gated with the Dogmatic Constitu­tion on the Church and the Decree on Eastern Catholic Churches. 
SCHOLASTIC
38 

The third and fourth sessions were also characterized by internal strife among the progressive majority and the conservatives. The original docu­ment on ecumenism had included im­portant chapters dealing with reli­gious liberty and a condern:hation of anti-Semitism. Because of the com­plications involved in the issue of religious liberty resulting from pre­vious teaching the debate on these 

The Second Vatican Council represents a new attitudinal shift on the part of the Church toward herself, and toward everyone else. It is biblical, ecumenical 
chapters was postponed by the mod­erating commission. Many progres­sives feared that this was a move on the part of conservatives to bury the issue and were worried that Pope Paul would not intervene and over­rule the delay. When there was an­other attempted delay before the affirming vote on the prindple in the fourth session, Paul did inter­vene putting an end to any further stall. Although the original delay may not have been sincere on the part of some conservatives, the fur­ther study did prove fruitful in pro­ducing an actually improved docu­ment dealing only with religious freedom. 
In the third session Paul con­tinued to show his mediating role among the progressive majority and the conservatives, who nevertheless represented a rather strong party and deep sentiments in the Church. He included insertions and clarifica­tions in the documents on the Church and on Ecumenism just before they were voted on and approved. A key insertion was an explanatory note clarifying collegiality and the free authority of the Pope. This ·served not only to reassure the conservatives but also to more explicitly represent what had been included in the five separated propositions controversi­
ally voted on during the second ses­
sion. 
A note should probably be made regarding the problematic but un­avoidable political language of con­servative and progressive. Not only did the bishops not always act in clearly determinable bodies, but also the profundity of these issues tran­scends simple (and sometimes emo­tional) analysis. In an equivocal sense, a progressive development is often a move backwards. A "liberal" move forward is often a "conserva­tive" move backward, to an earlier, more biblical comprehension of the full mystery of God's interaction with mankind in the Church. 
The fourth, final, and longest ses­sion was characterized by a tremen­dous amount of activity. It included three separate promulgations of the many documents debated and fin­ished, the most important of which were the Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation and the Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World. Also important is the Decree on the Bishops' Pastoral Of­fice in the Church which deals with a synod of bishops fa Rome, episco­pal conferences and the reform of the curia. Pope Paul announced the beginning of this reform during the fourth session. Worth noting are the 
Declaration on Religious Freedom and the Declaration on the Relation­ship o(the Church to Non-Christian· Religions, containing the previously mentioned condemnation of anti­semitism. Also, a joint declaration of Rome and Constantinople is is­sued concerning regrets of their divi­sion and the looked-for :reunion be­tween them. The remaining decrees and declarations cover a great deal of practical implications flowing from Vatican II regarding religious, priests, education, the laity, and mis­sion. 
The Second Vatican Counc'il repre­sents a new attitudinal shift on the part of the Church towards herself, and towards everyone else. It is bibli­cal, ecumenical and pastoral. 
Rather than the siege mentality evident in the central administration of much of the preconciliar Church, Vatican II calls for and incorporates into the administration of the Church a high regard for dialogue. Dialogue is an ancient, community-oriented, philosophical means of teaching and arriving at the truth emphasizing communication and clarification. The modern world is not to be con­demned, but rather, it is to be em­braced as the object ·of God's re­deeming love. The world's positive 
contributions are likewise to be em­
braced. The bishops with the Pope 
exercise concern for the life of the 
whole Church and collegially share 
in his office. Likewise, the laity make 
up an intrinsic part of the Church, 
participating in every part of her 
life. 

The documents of Vatican II neither disdain nor do they bind the Church to the language ·and insights of scholasticism. The importance of Scripture is emphasized for its prior place in inspiration and given a fuller place in the life of worship. Liturgy is recognized for the central part it should play in the life of the people, teaching sacred mystery, and thus should be understood by all. The sacred mystery of the Church, in the liturgy, is to be participated in by the people on the spiritual and 
the :physical levels. · 
All authority in the Church is not to be exercised legalistically or ju­ridically, but should be recognized as being ordained towards service. This is also to be seen in the Church's re­lationship to the world. The Church as teacher and bearer of Christ is to utilize the mystery of Christ as clarifying for the modern world the mystery of man in his great dignity. The social teachings of the Vatican II Church see active social service as a constitutive element of the preaching of the Gospels. 
Vatican II presents a new vision of, and for, the Church. This new vision is the current path that the Church, the bride of Christ, is follow­ing. This path is one of intimate union with God and of greater unity among all men, but especially among all Christians. A unified witness to the redemption offered by Christ in the Church, a eucharistic unity, is necessary so that the world may believe. This dialogue of Catholics, with other Christians and with the world, requires a fuller and deeper penetration of faith. This doctrinal penetration is provided by the docu­ments of Vatican II and should en­courage a corresponding deepening of faith of each Catholic. For this reason, no historical or topical sum­mary, especially this brief one, can take the place of the personal read­ing of the Vatican II documents. Today, all Christians are called on to develop a greater awareness and realization in their lives of the cen­tral and all-encompassing mystery of our time-The Church. D 
Rob Gilbert is a senior studying Theology, Philosophy, and Math Edu­cation. 
APRIL, 1981 



-The Last Word------­


by Chuck Wood 
New Math and Vatican II. These are two of the great culture shocks and generation-shapers of the Sixties. I never couid figure out what the big deal was about this "new" math. Ask any kid born during or after the late Fifties, and he will tell you all about parents who passed the buck when the time for math home­work rolled around. It became a bit of a ritual: the call for the other parent; the look of helplessness; the stubborn effort to deny defeat; the look of disgust; and the final cry of despair, "This New Math is bunk! Why can't they teach you kids any­thing the old way?" 
I could never totally empathize. They could talk about the old way all they wanted, but it did not help me any. The New Math was the only math I had. And anyway, I wondered, how could it be all that different? Numbers, plus and minus signs, and all that stuff were still the same. Yet the very mention of Base Three or Base Eight, or any base that made counting on your fingers a complex operation, was enough to send many a parent into a numb, semi­comatose melancholy. 

The Second Vatican Council (or more accurately, the way the Council was interpreted) seemed to have a similar effect on people when they saw the_ "newfangled" ideas that the Church was springing on them and their children. But again, none of us children had any other frame of reference. So just as with the New Math, we could not understand what all the fuss was about. How could we know that, as Kids of the Council, we were to grow up with the greatest shifts and extensions of the Church since, as a friend has put it, the Spirit showed Peter that Gentiies could join (see Acts 10 and 11)? 
* * * 

I was the Liberal/Optimist of my class at St. Anselm's Abbey. This is a small school (grades 7-12, 170 students on the average), so it did not take long to construct perma­nent personalities. One of the things I did to establish my liberal self was to almost successfully defend the spiritual and theological value of Jesus Christ, Superstar. This par­ticular eighth-grade accomplishment comes to mind because the debate was with Bill Lawler, who is Notre Dame's newly appointed Student Union Director. Anyway, being such a liberal type, even if I.had under­stood degrees of difference between 
the church before Vatican II and after, I probably would have thought it was great. Our faith, I would have thought, needed a new view of itself and a new, more pluralistic approach to the world. 
Even now I realize that every time I ;have sung in folk groups at countless Masses, acted out a story from the Gospel around the altar with other kids from CYO, or taken the Host in my own hands for Communion, I have the Second Council to thank. So, it is strange 
that I often find myself on the so­
called conservative side of the fence when theological and spiritual matters come up these days. For instance, I now find Superstar patently secular because among other things, it has Jesus scream, "Heal yourselves!" to a crowd of cripples, and it relegates the Resur­rection to an obscure, short instru­mental piece of music at the end 
(after seven years, I guess you win, Bill!). 
The terms "liberal" and "con­servative" are so substantially vague when in their home court of politics, that carrying them over to the arena of church issues can render them almost meaningless. And as a Kid of the Council who has spent a little time on both sides of the fence, I · think those who set themselves to interpreting and implementing the documents of the Council inay have given the two terms more substance than they deserved in matters of faith. I do not think this is merely the idea of a pretentious and naive child criticizing the acts of his older brothers and sisters. For the reflections of a man who covered the events of the Council for the press have given shape to this idea of mine. The man, Michael Novak, wholeheartedly supported the steps the Council wanted to take to "open the windows of the church," and he apparently was one of the more influential lay persons who wanted to start things moving when the Council was over. Now he has begun to wonder about the directions that 
some of that work has taken. In the Notre Dame Magazine of December 1980, Mr. Novak wrote, 
In retrospect, Pope John's 

project of "opening the windows of 
the church" depended far more 
than I realized on the quality of 
the air outside ... we resisted the 
classic pessimism of conservatism 
with respect to the modern world 
... We wanted to bring the church 
into the 20th century. But we took 
far too kindly a view of the 
century we wished to join. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Novak thinks that perhaps those who acted on what came out of the Council were too critical of the so~called conservativism of the old church and "too benign ... about everything on the left." 
Sadly, even as those who had been Catechism Kids opened the windows of the church to the outside, they were building fences within. In a certain way, those fences made it harder for us Council Kids to be Catholic, which is odd since the documents of the Council did not (indeed they could not) change or rescind the fundamental Truths or teachings of the church. So how could the "new" church be all that different than the "old?" 
I think one problem is that fences within the church tend to block off the light that has illumined it; the glare from those open windows does not help either. 
Now I like being a kid whose church has windows that are not shut tight and whose arms are open to the world. But with a house divided against itself, we cannot enter into the embrace with -the same confidence and vigor that our new partners have. What can result (and often has in the past fifteen years) is not so much an embrace as a snatching away. 
* * * 

The problem with New Math, to paraphrase a satirist of the Sixties, is that kids do not have to learn the right answers, they just have to get a "feel" for what they're doing. A friend of mine who is a Math/ Education major was talking to me about the diagnosis of New Math. She told me that some teachers are beginning to regret the speed with which they implemented the new system. Imagine that. D 

When breezes are soft and skies are fair, I steal an hour from study and care, And hie me away to the woodland scene, 

A Public Service ofThisNcwspapcr& The Advertising Council 

Where wanders the stream with waters of green. 
Words: William Cullen Bryant Photo: Ansel Adams 
; ·· .... 
l . ·~-~~. ' , 
' ·., ~ . 
\ '· \ 
., \/' \ \ ·i_.\'..·; \.<}
I . : ' .. 
., . 







