

Cbe
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
Vol. XLVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 31, 1914.
No. 14.
United.
X
Far out beyond the dimmest star Where eyes may never peer, The ones we cherish here on earth
Are .drifting year by year.
. And back to us each day there comes, Though eyes may never see, A golden chain of prayer that joins
Time to eternity.	, J. S.
The Need of Our Times.

WALTER CLEMENTS, ’ 14.
grow, and
FOR a statesman—a single one— who understands the living might inherent in a principle,” said Coleridge, and he voiced the need of all ages. Generations pass away.
Nations rise and fall. Civilizations enterprises have been consolidated until.this, is
then decaying are supplanted by

I I |
new eras. Yet throughout the changes of time principles remain immutable the same as in the days before the pyramids, for principles are eternal! If there is one thing that every page cf history affirms, it is this.: It records the glory of peonies that were ruled by principle. It points with a warning finger to those dead nations, that forgot God and His laws and perished from the earth. For human greatness can endure only so long as men.obey the laws indelibly written in the human heart.
That we of today are in the midst of new conditions, no one denies. We have entered a new era.. But the necessary standards of - conduct that were discarded with the old order have not been sufficiently applied to the new. Will, Twentieth Century civilization continue to follow the ‘easiest way’ or will it abide: by
the living might inherent in principles that/ were old when the world was young? Answer, ; this question and you tell me whether or hot / present-day greatness with its marvellous scientific and industrial achievements can endure. True we are heirs to the intellectual wealth of . the ages. We possess Christianity, which preserving the thoughts of the past arid fostering. knowledge has made modem science possible... • But scientific discovery has given rise to ' a. E system of industrialism, so huge that it distinctly , characterizes this period, so far-reaching in its; effects that it threatens to crowd out of our life every other force, even Christianity. :
As a result of mechanical invention the production of- a bushel of wheat is now ten times ■ easier than it was fifty years ago. Whitney’s invention revolutionized the cotton industry: J A new impetus was given to business. A.mul- > titude of factories now supply the. complex requirements of'the age. In order ,to avoid’:, competition and to amass wealth business .
called an age of corporate industry. It is an ‘ age of commercialism. Thoughts travel around the world on wings of electricity. Steam binds coast to coast and continent to' continent? More magnificent than Rome in the reign, of Caesar Agustus are our great cities 1 And yet it were folly to be so blinded by the glitter off the world about us that w;e lose sight off its; weakness. . Material progress has been * top; rapid as compared. with moral advancement? Men live as though they had outgrown their old modes of thinking and standards of coridrictff So busy are they keeping pace with so-called-progress, that they do not take time to consider? whither it is leading them. In their eagerness to know whether or not a thing, will promote? their immediate; advantage they too often forget " to ask themselves: “Is it right?”. The spiritfe of the age is utilitarian. It is prone to sub-?




418	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
stitute expediency for morality. In the words of Vice-President Marshall: “There is too much of a tendency for men to counsel with sharp lawyers as to what they can do and still keep out of jail.” Widespread disregard for principles is the source of the disorders that threaten to bring ruin upon existing conditions. It is the cause of modern menaces social and economic.
It- is the cause of industrial warfare in which capital oppresses labor and labor retaliates with the firebrand and dynamite, while the general public suffer. The curse of our trusts and - unions is that their policy is shaped by might rather than right. Industrial organization is good, for “In union there is strength.” But-all the combinations under the sun can not take from the toiler his right to live nor give him license to demolish property and violate peace. ’ Men were given social instincts that they might aid one another in working out a common des-tiiiy. But the fundamental principle of society is subverted, when organizations are formed for the purpose of self-aggrandizement injurious to the rights of other men. Just so long as trivial selfishness is capital’s motive in seeking a maximum amount of labor at a minimum wage, huge corporations will continue to disregard the misery of the thousands that sacrifice their lives on the altar of Mammon. Just so long as business activity is controlled by mere material interest, class conflict will remain. There are common principles of justice and humanity, applicable to both classes now as in the time of the Mediaeval Guilds. Let both capital and labor respect these rights and they will be able to work together with efficiency and in peace. For between two rights there can be no conflict.
. Do the men who have pushed railroads across the continents give due consideration to the ethical problems involved in their new work? Railroad directors have attempted to make mere bulwarks of excuse out of the civil law. They have been prone to ignore public rights, and. to operate their system according to the dictates
. of the ticker and high finance. But in maintaining such a policy they leave their work incomplete and without an element of permanence.
The modern municipality is materially great because nearly all the brains and energy of the day are devoted to accumulating wealth. It is corrupt because too little thought has been given to the ethical problems involved in the.
increasing complexity of society. Witness the unsatisfactory work of legislatures in city and state. The average business man will not take time to bother with making laws, unless they affect his private interest, and then he is ready to snap his fingers at principles of justice and humanity.- That is why a great many of our civil laws breed disorder. They are mere generalizations of. convenience as interpreted by the interest that happens to be in power.
Industrialism has invaded the home. Factories supply the modern family with prepared food and ready-made clothing, but in turn they take mothers from the cradle. Children as well as women are drawn into the sordid Maelstrom of commercial conflict. We hear talk .of a minimum wage law as a remedy, and of woman’s suffrage, that she may protect herself in this new order. But while this age continues to disrespect the primary principle of family rights, statutory reforms will be weak arid ineffectual. Though there have been recent indications of. a political awakening, civil reforms will be -of no avail unless accompanied by a moral revival. Laws must be deeply rooted in the hearts of the people, whence their strength is derived. ' They are fruitless, while, the lives of people are blighted by moral wrongs. Hence we should feel gravely alarmed when we see that the institutions, which shape the lives of the people and mould public opinion, are subverted by a gross worldly mindedness. For example: The standard of theatrical success or failure is money. The dramatic world is dominated by greed rather than rules of art and moral propriety. The sensational story, that appealing to vulgar tastes, will secure the widest circulation, is the headliner for our daily paper. Material interest has invaded institutions of learning, and where youths were once taught the paramount principles of life they now devote their time to acquiring skill in some money-making trade, and call that education. Even religion is forgotten amidst wordily pursuits. .
Yet morality has in religion its one sanction that goes soul-deep,—down to the inner man. When: the sacred fires die on the altars of a people, patriotism ceases to burn in their hearts. When their household gods fall into neglect, the fatherland falls into dissolution. When the ancient Jews' worshipped Mammon instead of Jehovah, they were driven from their country, wanderers over the face of the earth. Ignoring
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
her gods Rome was invaded by vice and luxury. Behold the broken arches of her ruined grandeur. Yet despite these warnings from the past, men grow careless of religion in their mad timeserving. Upon inquiring into the religious belief of the leading business men of a community a statistician recently discovered that the majority did not believe in a personal God, nor in the accountability of man hereafter. Many great scientists have denied that there is anything beyond the material world. Some have tried to teach that man is merely a composition of cells and that virtue and-vice are chemical products like sugar and vitriol. Their disbelief has spread among the common people, and the toiler is bereft of his greatest hope in a careworn life. No wonder that • there is such widespread discontent among the masses. We are told that it is the rumbling of a gathering storm. Whether it is or not, religious adherence to moral principle is the only thing that can alleviate class hatred and bridge over the unavoidable inequalities of life. It alone can curb the powerful and lend dignity to the toilers’ task. The working girl is tempted by sordid surroundings? Then teach her the eternal difference between virtue and vice, and her cause will triumph with the cause of truth. Let the youthful learn principles of virtue based on religion, and they will not need to be made worldly wise for the purpose of self-protection; they will not have to go through a sewer in order to learn sanitation. If people would meet the vital issues of the day, they must first understand that religion is the foundation of morality, and that an age without moral principle is an age without order and permanency.
Disorder and social unrest threaten us today, because moral standards have fallen too far behind the march of events. Then it is time to call a halt, and. to establish ourselves in new surroundings. New conditions cry out for the new application of old principles. Every7 time an invention is made or a new relation formed, ethical standards must be reapplied. We have made wonderful advancement materially but it is time to reckon progress by the eternal principles of truth and right. It is time to cease worshipping the golden calf, lest we bring upon our heads the wrath of outraged law. It is time that we harken to those laws, that have come thundering through the ages. We are told that strict adherence to principle
419
will be possible only in some far off Millennium. But the universal rule of principle will be the Millenium. Conformity with principles of justice is the only thing that can bring peace between men and peace between nations;
What our time needs is a new school of leaders, men like President Wilson, who w*ill stand firm by principles, even when they seem to oppose material interest. The need of our day is not so much for inventors and captains of industry, but rather philosophers, teachers and lawgivers. Your future men of science must be men, like Pasteur, who. can return from scientific research with the simple faith of a peasant, whose faith broadens with their knowledge. We must have champions of truth to deliver industry from material interests, and to bring the hum of machinery and hustle of traffic into harmony with the rights of humanity. That restless murmur, you hear in the shops, fields, and factories, is more than the rumbling of a gathering storm. It is the voice of the people calling for new leaders, for men to come forth., into the highways and byways of the workaday world, who clothing ancient principles in Twentieth Century modes of expression will apply them to modern conditions. Let the cry of the people be answered. .Give us men who understand the living might inherent in a principle and the paramount need of the day will be fulfilled.
A Camiverous Lothario.
ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’l6.
“I’ve ate a man’s ear for less,” observed Tennessee Harding reflectively, from somewhere beneath the musty blankets of the lower bunk.
“ Well, you’re not going to Fletcherize my anti-helixical appendage,” I retorted warmly. “Reference to my ears may raise a question about the ornamental value of said protuberances, but certainly their absence doesn’t conduce to beauty, and I don’t propose to have them masticated over any of the acts, antecedents . or achievements of Andrew Jackson or the Democratic party.”
“I alius sticks up for the Democrats on gener’l principles,” said Tennessee reflectively, “not as I gives a dern, but I was beat onc’t by a big fellow in a log-rollin’ contest at Tower, the same as ust to use'spikes in his heels. He talked plumb obnoxious about the fallercy of
420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
onlimited tariff er silver fer protection only, er something, an’ I can’t figger out. why I should boost the plurality fer a party whose chief representative an’ mouthpiece in these yere dreary wilds, pulls a crooked stunt whirlin’ the pine.”	.
“But about the ear,” I prompted, fearing that the occupant of the lower bunk would digress.	.
' “Well, it was as I stated,” resumed Harding thus encouraged, .“an’ as I’ve remarked, fer considerably- less aggervashun. Me an’ Bem-idge Benson, him as went out with th’ snakes up on th’ upper Rat Root, was -with the Diamond . Hill outfit, him top leadin’ and me swingin’ the hickory over the four as was on the tank. We was twenty-eight miles from a whiskey glass, an’ along in the evenings about twentyeight inches from a jug. Me an’ Bemidge was the envy of the hull damn camp, seein’ as how our erudition supplied us with subjects to argue about a long time after the disputative material of the common an’ plebian herd was plumb exhausted. When the rest of the gallery gang had ~ exhausted the subjects of whether squirrel whiskey could induce the “jim jam’s” as quick as Hennessy Three Star, which could drink th’other under the table, an’ whether a Frenchman could rightly be classified under the jeenus homo, they subsidered as the story
. writer, says “abjeckly.”
“Me an’ Benson scorned such low-down conversations as unworthy a lumberjack an’ ■ a gentulman. When the rest had checked down and whistled for a pilot, Benson would; sing out, ‘Say, Tennessee, you low-down onery cuss, do you place much creddence in this yere fourth dimenshun racket?’ An’ I would retort casual, ‘No,; you slab-sided Norwegian .. pole-cat, I’m inclined ter be real skeptical of its scintific validerty. ’	.
. “ An’ thereupon the silence in the bunk house would become plumb ’• deafening. But them . eyedyllic times was not fef long, as a pote would
say. Bemidge couldn’t remain satisfied with
. nuthin’ permanent. . Not content with showin’	__
up the rest of the gang, he'ackshully began to • they was goin’ in town on a spree. Nobody had the nerve to talk to her, but we all stood
edge eround ter put one over on me. One night when we had plenty of spectaters, it
' ' bein’ Saturday night, he pipes out, ‘Say, Ten- kind uh agonized delight.when she looked at us. ' nessee, do you think them Marconigrams are “ Finally we .saw her talkin' one day with ' ther -last word in airyeral communicashun?’ Canada Pete, the omeriest' booze .fightin’ saw ‘Well,’ I says, plumb judichus, ‘ I ain’t strong artist that ever dodged: ther mounted perlice. fer them dage concoctions, but I’ll bet my last I was just plumb disgusted at his imposin’
buck that you can’t go much farther in com-municashun than those same what-you-call-’ems. An’ that low-down, tallow-haired son of a Scandinavian scavenger has the soupreme effrontery to laugh out loud an’ scornful just the same as if I’d bet my pile on an intelleckshul two-spot. I told him right there that I never conversed with ostentatious p’raders of grammer school misinformations, an’ me an’ him discontinued the debates.
“Ther incident was closed, so ter speak, when ‘Buck’ Mallery’s sister-in-law hove in fer a vacation. You must rekerlect ‘Buck,’ him as was foreman for the Diamond Hill crowd fer nigh onto twenty-years? Well, .‘Buck’ havin’ a pull ’ith the comp’ny has a little private shack alongside the office and commissary, an’s got his wife an’ the two kids out fer the winter. I’ll alius alleged that Missus Mallery was the-best lookin’ piece o’ calico north of the Rainy, an’ I ust to wonder plumb excessive how ol’ Buck ever made the rifle. Well, that kid sister uh hern was so dern much prettier than her that it just sorte paralyzed the gang just to look at her. She was plenty intrusted in the crew, an ’us’t to come into the cook camp durin’ chuck an’ it kinda muddled us all up to have her lookin’ on. Nobody couldn’t seem to eat comfertuble, an’ I rammed a knifeful uh beans down my throat the first time she looked square at me.
“She had the biggest eyes an’ the reddest cheeks an’ the blackest eyebrows an’ the niftiest yellow hair,—whole stacks of it—that I ever lamped. Longside uh her Fourflush Fannie . as runs the game in the “Lumberman’s Haven’ was a reg’lar two spot. She was clean from Cheecago, an’ wore them new-fangled dresses with a sort a trace chain effect at the ankles. She was always laughin’ an’ operatin’ those optics o’ hers like a reg’lar soobrette. She smiled at the hull outfit from the Polack swampers clean through to Lutefisk Larson, who was a married homesteader with the ‘ con.’ Well everybody acted like a bunch uh neophyte Romeos, toggin’. up on Sundays same as if
eround sorter fidgety, an’ felt a mos’ unique
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
421;
hisself on a perfect lady as didn’t know what a lowlived fugitive he reallv was. After that two or three of the boys was seen talkin’ to her, but when we ast what was up, they just looked as important as hell an’ maintained a deescreet silence. I figgered she was kiddin’ ’em erlong fer the fun of it. Then one morning I run plumb, into her, turnin’ the corner uh the blacksmith shop. I clawed fer my headgear,- an’ tried to think of something polite-
sech as a city gal alius expects when yuh make-- fer about an hour to get her to accept the pro-
a blunder. I was op’nin’ an’ shuttin’ my mouth like a picker’l out o’ water, when she says plumb gentle, ‘Oh, I trust that you will pardon my awkwardness, Mr. Harding, but I’m in sech a heap uh trouble I can hardly see wheere I’m goin.’ Mr. Harding! I was so all-fired flabbergasted that I liked to choke. How the deuce
did that gal ever learn my name? I saw that _ none, no more’n a Chippewa. Injun. Later on
she was smilin’ uncertain like, as if she’d ’uve rather cried. That ’ sorter broke the spell, an’ I started to mumble about it bein’ all my fault, an’ axin’ her pardon, an’ all that sorter thing. Then I says if any uh them unculturated road-monkeys was annoyin’ her, I’d learn ’em somethin’ with a cant hook handle. She was plumb impressed by my souperior cummand uh langwidge, I guess, an’ says I’m a real gentulman to be so kind. She explains that no ones been botherin’ her any (though I punched Canada Pete’s head on gener’l princuples) but she’s worried nigh to death over her poor brother who had a toobercular affection, an’ was in a fair way to shuffle off in Cheecago. She explains that it uz only seein’ how I was an edikkated gennulman that she tells me the
secret uh her grief, wuldn’t mention it to hoped to. be chawed ever breathe a ■ word.
She said . she hoped I any of the boys, an’ I by a porcupine ef I’d Then she says ef her
. poor unfortunate brother with the pallor of the tenement on his fevered brow could get into the clear, cold, pine-scented air, ther doctor opined he . might stand a chance. She looked that plumb pitiful standin’ there with the tears. in her big black eyes, that I bet I swallowed eleven times before she could go on to say that he must die alone an’ unattended in a great, cheerless city, ’cause she couldn’t raise ther wherewith to bring him up. Mr. Mallery would advance her the money, she . " explains, tryin’ not ter cry, but she hates ter impose on him. any more.
“‘If a hundred an’ fifty-eight, bones will
help you a trifle,’ I says eagerly, ‘I’ll have ’em-.
here in four seconds.’ But she wouldn’t ' C stand fer nothin’ like that, seein’ as how it ’' wouldn’t be proper to impose on a ,perfect, though cultured and generous stranger. But -I overcame her scruples by explainin’ that surely hollow convention (I borrowed, that from Benson, but uh course she didn’t know , nuthin erbout it) wouldn’t stand between her . an’ happiness ner a human life. I had ter gas ‘ -
ceeds of four months’ work, but though I was late on the- job, she finally seen it my way an’ thanked me in a trembly voice, an’ stretched . . . out a little pink white hand an’ said I was a . true hearted hero, an’ a lot o’ stuff about the real men uh the Northern solitudes that sounded jes like a novel, an’ all uh which I didn’t deserve
she drew me aside confidential an-’ said she hed sent off the cash with the tote team, an’ hoped, her moribund brother could soon thank, his bennefactor in person. I was that smeared up over by my noble-hearted philanthropy that I could hardly breng myself to reckernize my bunkie, Jack Praser, as fine a bark skinner as ever- breathed. .	■	.
“I told Mallery thet thet sister-in-law uh his laid it over any thing I ever saw fer riggin,’ . trim, an sassiety manners, but he only grunted in the sorter disgusted fashion thet benedicks assoome as a matter er policy, en said he hoped . I had the sense uh a pizened qiute, ’cause there . was plenty sapheaded Lotharios in camp ’ith-out me gettin’ soft in the attic. •	'
“Uh couple er days later I seen.her:talkin ' ’ith Benson, an’ he was smilin’ sorter while *. she was lookin’ pretty sad. I thought maybe ' she was thinkin’ ’bout her brother, an’ that yap was tryin’ ter show off his eroodishun. ;• -‘Axin’ your pardon, Miss,’ I says, goin’ up a heap belligerent, ‘but ef that No'rway non-entity. is exhibitin’ his usual misplaced—er—levity, (I thought I’d throw a jolt into Benson on the . side) jest say so, an’ down comes his meat house?
“ ‘ Oh, Mr. Benson is behavin’ hisself,’ she says," ? smilin’ at him, and me feelin’ plenty ridickerless ;L goes over to the bunk house.’	■ J. 7
“Benson pretty soon drifts' in. There was .■ a big gang sittin’ around smokin’ and I figgers- < that he was goin’ to make ernother try to get off somethin’ smart,	. -
“‘Certainly a confiding, artless child,: eh, . J Harding?’ he leers to me, ‘an’- suffiden^LyAA
V ?
422
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ingenuous fer our friend Tennessee ter try the guardeen angel racket. ’
“ I was so completely peeved that all thet 1 could see was his sneerin’ mug, an’ the room goin’ round in a red circle. ‘ N obody ever calls a friend o’ mine a confidence artist an’ gets away with it,’ I says, ‘an’ as fer callin’ a perfectly decent girl ‘injeenerous’ er whatever it was, no blue-livered Norwegian son of a skunk can do thet same with impoonity.’
“He dodges the cant hook I slings at him, but the pole axe he throws back in retaleration nicks me in the shoulder. It was in ther good . old drive days, an’ the crudities uh physical encounter hadn’t been spoiled none by effeet refinement. It was a case uh no holds barred, an’ the hobnails applied from any angle.
“He kicks me a couple in the stummick closin’ in, but I responds bj’ buttin’ my head . into his teeth as we clinch. He gets considerable purchase on my hair goin’ down, and inserts his other thumb abruptly inter the corner uh my eye. I had my left mitt in his whiskers, an’ was slammin’ tire right pretty regular inter his jaw. But the leverage he had on my sufferin’ peeper was a caution. An’ with a fellow’s eyeball bein’ pried out, an’ waltzin’ all over his cheek-bone, some drastic recipro-cative measure has got to be did. An’ then his left ear looms .up alongside of my bicuspids. My eye was about ready to ‘up stakes’ and let go, so I acted on ther spur uh the moment. I only got the crinkly edge the first bite, but • the second chaw did' the work. Benson used to say that even dirt was petentshull energy, an’ such bein’ the case,- I certainly consoomed a heap uh would-be activity. At all events he eases- up on my eye while was munching his hearer, an’ perceivin’ that he was near the big -castiron camp stove,-1 grabs the other ear an’ . some hair, an’ like to fracture the stove leg with Benson’s 'head. That ended the en-. counter. Benson was plumb horse doo combat, an’ the gang pries us apart. I was strong . fer-walkin’ on his face fer a few minutes, ter inculcate . a genhulmanly respect fer ladies. . “An seein’ as how you-reflected basely on Andy Jackson’s fighnanseering ability, an’ on the other hand, 'figgering that. a. dictionary - vindicated ; Benson from contumelious intent, . and further recellecting that the gal worked the same gag bn every cuss in camp, an’, eloped with a tliousand bucks, and the cookee, I should T - '
Varsity Verse.
•	“Excused.”
I came near getting angry at
The way he missed his work,
I told him that in after life His duties he would shirk.
I thought my words were sinking deep,
His face was crimson red,
But suddenly he smiled at me, “I live in Walsh.” he said.
Another came with bowed down head
His heart was lone and sad,
He said his team had lost the flag
Because they played so bad.
“Cheer up,” I said, “there’s many a flag,
You may get one next fall.” “But one is lost,” the lad replied, . “And I’m from Corby Hall.”
I met another slender chap
His hair was streaked with gray, He took his books out for a walk
To read them on the way.
I asked him why he never played
Nor practised games at all,	' -
“I’ve only got one life,” he said, “And I’m from Sorin hall.”
And then I came upon two lads
Just mixing in a fight,
One gave the ’ other of his fruit—
He took too large a bite.
“Stop it,” I cried, “you’ll both be hurt, “You’ll miss your classes all.”
“’Twill worry us,” they both replied, “We come from Carroll Hall.”	.
S. T. D.
Bile. '	'
Mamma asks her'little son Willie, . To do things that. Willie thinks silly,
You’ll do it,” says ma, “Or I’ll call for papa.” Now I wonder if Willie' will. Will he?
C. K.
* Physically Impossible.
He can skive to. town each evening,
He can punch, the bag and box.
He can wrestle with the best of them, Arid take the hardest ^knocks;
He can. exercise most any time, And play ball all day• long, '
But he can’t take-Military—' .	.
-'Cause he really isn’t strong,	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Kilkenny Carrigan.
ANDREW L. MCDONOUGH.
"Kilkenney Carrigan was, as one might infer from the nickname, a native of the Emerald Isle. Just why Canada received the honor of his company is a question that the Scotland Yard authorities might be able to clear up, did they so wish, but from his appearance, one would have thought that outside of a possibility of a little political trouble, he could hardly be a criminal.
Like all men with a past, Carrigan drifted toward the “wild and wooly,” and there his natural tendency for excitement caused him to “stick.”
Now all this happened before the word civilization had been defined in Western Canada and the mountains of British Columbia were a rather favored section for such gentle folk as cattle rustlers, horse thieves, and whiskey runners, and naturally it was Carrigan’s luck to run into trouble immediately.
He was sitting quietly at a table in a saloon when a big, red-haired, ugly-looking sort of a fellow rode up to the door, dismounted, and came in. He was cordially welcomed by the bar-tender, who called him “Red.”
After the customary salutations, Red turned to the proprietor, and nodding his head toward Carrigan, said: “who’s the tender, Joe?”
“Don’t know,” answered Joe. “He just' blew in a couple of days ago.”
“We’ll have to give him a test,” said Red, and stepping to the bar, he shouted: •
“Once around, boys, it’s on me.”
Everybody in the room except Carrigan rose and walked to the bar. Now Red had imbibed rather freely at tire last saloon he had come to, and Carrigan’s refusal to have something nettled him.
Walking over lie. stood for a moment and sized up his man.
“Well say, stranger,” he said sarcastically, “you might save yourself a lot of trouble if you’ll kindly join in with us and partake of the hospitality of the Blue Devil.”,
“Don’t know as I care to,” answered Carrigan,
“Oh yes, you do,” said Red, and suddenly he grabbed Carrigan by the collar, and amid the cheers of the onlookers marched him to the bar.
Carrigan seemed to take it in good part, and
he received his glass of whiskey with a smile,'. yi :Y/5 but without the least hesitation he turned J • and threw it full in Red’s face, saying “a shame J riri to waste good whiskey like that;” •	:	j. Wyy.'
Red’s forehead turned purple and Carrigan J Jyri dodged to one side in time to see a few splinters ri' ririri grazed from the bar by a bullet. Then-he ri clinched. Red had his gun in his hand arid ri’. Jy seemed to be firing in about every direction./ .
Suddenly a young fellow, tall and handsome ; J y ’ strode into the room and rushed between the, : . -J two combatants. He grabbed Red’s wrist, .riri-ri twisted the gun out, and ordered him to come . ? ' outside with him.	' ./riy
Carrigan to his intense surprise saw the . big brute, without another word, turn and walk ' J-out. Thus it was that Carrigan got his first y ri view of the Northwest Mounted Police, for . Y y ~ the young fellow was a member of that’mag- .. J nificent body of troops.	.' -.
“Well by damn, for pure nerve, that beats J . anything I’ve ever seen,” he mused. “I .	: . ’
wonder if any one could get into that bunch.” ' ’
Two. years later Corporal Carrigan of the Northwest Mounted Police ' met Kathleen McKuen, formerly known to town gossips as Red Higgins’ steady. Now Kathleen was, about as pretty a girl as was to be. found in the whole province* and although poor, no one. . could say any worse of her than that she had.
tried vainly to reform province, Red. '
Life suddenly began for Carrigan. He was
the worst. man in the
to lose its monotony getting so much more .
out of living since he had met - Kathleen. Everything seemed brighter, and-he looked, into the future through. a golden telescope.-; Her face was before him always, and when he took his pipe of an evening, after his visit :td;/ the McKeun home, he could see in the smoke rings, a -low, ivy-covered porch, set back from-the. ’ road, and a figure,—well he could not get it off his mind, nor was he anxious to do sori L
Naturally it was not very long before-rumors' , of an engagement began to float around the' settlement, and these .reached Red. I'NT
Now Red had not bothered, Carrigan’ since the night in the saloon, but at the same time he had not forgiven him either. He had swom.ri that if Carrigan and he should get into any more/ ■ trouble, he would make him pay for the whiskey trick. ri -	■	■	riyA
A few days after the rumors of Carrigan’s -
riri

42'4
CHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
engagement began, Red happened to meet him on the street, and stopped him saying: ' “What’s this I hear ’bout you and Kate
McKuen?” - -	*
Carrigan, although he had no use for the man, responded with a smile:
“It’s straight, all right, we have decided to fall into line.” .	•
“Oh, you have eh?” sneered Red. “Well, I want to tell you that I’m in on this deal, too. And I’m goin’ to give you a little advice. Keep away from Kate McKuen.”
“And if I don’t?” said Carrigan.
Pulling his coat aside, Red pointed to the butt of a pistol in his belt, saying as he did:
“Each notch on that iron stands for a man who crossed my path twice. You’ve done it once.” With, that he slouched away.
After thinking it over, Carrigan decided to disregard Red’s warning, and that night he started for Kathleen’s house as usual.
As he stepped on the porch, he heard loud voices in the parlor. He stopped for a moment to listen and recognized Red’s voice, saying:
“What am I going to do? Do you think I’m goin’ to let even’- bloke in town talk about this?” Then they spoke in lower tones and Carrigan could catch nothing. Finally just as he was about to enter the house he heard Red say loudly:
. “No, by the Lord, you never will do that, never—” and as Carrigan rushed into the house a pistol shot rang out, and he pushed the curtains aside in time to see Kathleen stagger and fall—lifeless.	'
Madly he threw himself- between the two only to fall himself at her feet as Red fired again.
’ “There, you fool,” said Red, spurning the lifeless body with his foot, “I guess that’ll settle your score for good.” ..
Carrigan had paid for his glass of whiskey.
-. A few hours later, a man in one of the-private compartments' of the Montreal Limited was silently engaged in carving another notch on the grip of an old six-shooter,—the only memorial to one who-had crossed his path the second time,—Kilkenny Carrigan. .
By a Carroll Haller. ’
\ . I’m on the campus all day long, ' ; This weather’s surely nice,
. . And .yet !-I -hear that some poor simp. . Is saying prayers for ice. y :
Over the Wire.
PATRICK II. DOLAN, T6.
Helen threw herself pouting into the large Morris rocker. When she heard’ the door close behind her parents, she snatched a Blue Book from the table at the same time scattering the evening paper on the floor. She glanced at the book, then threw it,—missing her aim of course—at puss who came purring into the room. The last words of her father had sounded the knell of her evening’s pleasure. Not that she regretted keeping house alone,— for the telephone is rather good company when no one is at home to entertain—but; “remember now,” were his parting words, “no telephoning tonight. And if the bell rings, let it ring!”
What was she to do? There was. a chance that Will might call her up. She always liked to talk to Will; he used such fine English,— over the ’phone. Then there was a little college lad she had met at the Point: that little “ice-cream parlor boy.” Why a half hour’s talk with even him would help to pass the evening. But now if anyone* should call she could not answer the phone,—at least, that, is what father said.
Thirty minutes passed drearily, only the ticking of the clock and an occasional audible murmur from Helen broke the silence. Then the bell rang. Helen—she was no different from the girls we all know—picked up the receiver. -	.
“Dad forgets that I know that his wooing began with a flirtation over the wire.- Perhaps he is afraid he is going to lose me, and maybe he will,” she told herself, and then very sweetly:
“Hello.”	'
“Is this Wier’s residence?” came a masculine voice over thewire.
“Yes, this is Wier’s” she answered, anticipating a half hour’s talk with,—well t didn’t matter with whom; anything to pass the time away. ’	,
“Well, I’d like, to speak to Miss Helen,” came over the wire.	.	.
. “This is Helen,” she slowly answered,- lingering on the last syllable, and wondering who her . caller, is, “Who is this speaking, please,” she then asked. ;	-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
j	“Yourself,” came back the answer, “if I
! aih not mistaken.”
।	Helen laughed.
f	“Hold the wire a minute till I get an easy chair
> she invitingly told the unknown caller at the ?	other end. Her words must have taken his
j	breath away; he had not even told her his name;
! she had not even asked for it; and now she was going to take an easy chair. Presumably she i	wanted to talk, if nothing more than for talk’s
;	. sake.
'	“Hello!” she began again after seating her-
self- and holding the desk phone in her hands.
’ “Comfortable now?” was the considerate question she was greeted with.
“Very, thank you,” she answered gaily. “You are at home all alone, aren’t you?” was the cunning bit of nerve from the other end. Helen brought the phone to her lap with a rapid movement. How did he know she was alone? She was frightened for a moment.
. But perhaps Will or Tom who knew of her parents’ absence had put some friend on the wire hoping to have a joke at her expense.
I She laughed at the feeling of apprehension and ■	quickly dismissed it.	■ ,
“Yes, I am alone,” she answered. “Did Will tell you?” Helen smiled, thinking how she would lead her joker on; and then turn the joke on Will.
“Will who?” the other asked. This was a feigned ignorance, Helen told herself. She had met similar callers before, so she laughed loudly.	.
“Oh, I know Will—”
And so this conversation continued to the amusement of both the talkers. Fifteen minutes elapsed and Helen knew no more who her caller was than she did when she first picked up the receiver. Their conversation developed gradually of rather retrogressed into an ordinary ’ flirtation over the wire.
.	Meantime Lefty Louie, a blue-ribbon porch-
climber was watching through the diningroom window, for an opportunity to enter the Wier’s residence. His eyes glistened in 'the darkness behind his black mask when he saw Helen comfortably seated in the Morris chair, engrossed in at foolish flirtation. He listened for a few minutes, “got the. drift” of the conversation, then dropped silently and
. adroitly to the ground. Five minutes later . he entered a bedroom, proceeded quickly' to
425
rifle the drawers of the dresser. A minute later, Helen at the telephone was startled by the agonizing and ear-piercing “me-ow.” Lefty, had evidently trod upon puss’s tail. In his excitement he upset a vase that adorned the dresser. Helen was too frightened to utter an outcry; however, she had the. presence of mind not to hang up the receiver.
“O say,” she uttered in low, frightened tones, “there’s a burglar—in my bedroom—I just heard him. Please—notify the police immediately.”
She listened for a reply and her ears heard the welcome words, “For God’s sake, Jack, run for a policeman. There’s a robbery at Miss Wier’s home and Helen is home alone.”
The words brought her courage, Jack was there and he would soon bring succor.
“Hello,” came to her, I've just sent for help. Now keep your head and continue talking to me as if nothing happened. Don’t give the robber the least intimation of fear on your part. “Leave him alone,” the voice continued, “pretend you don’t even know he is in the house. He can’t escape, as two of the boys have just. gone toward your home to watch till Jack brings the police.
The cool manner in which Jack’s friend spoke to her assured Helen of her safety; she admired him, gained courage and resumed her conversation. '	. .	.
“O wont you please tell me your name,” she pleaded still a little bit afraid, yet commanding all the spirit she could. And so the flirtation was again resumed.
An hour later Lefty Louie and Second Story' Pete, safe in their den, divided the stolen gems and silverware of the Wier household. Pete ' was the first to speak.	.
“Gee! that girl must be some swell kiddo, she wanted to make a date wid me over de telephone, just before you’se stepped on de cat’s tail.” .	•
Moods.
One saw the silver of the sea, '	■	-
And heard its music deep, .
And on its heaving bosom, one
Was sweetly rocked to sleep.
Another saw the angry green, _ ;
And heard the raging roar,
And looked with longing, tear-stained eyes;
To the far-distant shore.	S.-R.
426
THE,NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
. Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published .every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic '	Notre Dame. Indiana
VOL. XLVH.	JANUARY 31, 1914. NO. 14.
Board of Editors.
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, ’14	JOSEPH M. WALSH,	’14
WALTER CLEMENTS, ’14	GEORGE SCHUSTER,	’15
ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’15	HUGH V. LACEY,	’16
MARK DUNCAN, ’15	CLOVIS SMITH,	’15
TIMOTHY	GALVIN, ’16.	
—Everyman is humorous: that is, sometimes. It is a matter of experience that laughter is as necessary an article of diet as is salt. .	- However, there are many grades
On Humor, just as there are distinct varieties of spice. The other evening we were pleased with a little, of ancient and unsurpassed quality, which was presented in the dialect songs of Mr. Saunders. These were filled with the delightful freshness many seek in Fielding and Dickens. So much of the humor of our day is stale and overdone; facts which are peculiarly true of college wit. The psychologist traces the laughter caused by a joke over the same route as an ordinary ticklish sensation. The grossness or sublety of the humor exists in proportion to the divergence from a mere tickle. So much of the would-be. wit we. are gorged with is not only dull, but it is coarse. The absence of intellectual appeal lowers it to a mere ticklish vibration. The perpetrator of coarse stories should always remember, then, that he is not at all humorous, and that people generally know it. Gentlemen . are usually not reared in stock-pens, and seldom become accustomed to such coarseness as is. exhibited in many of the so-called funny stories. There are'still higher considerations, but these will do.	•	,
—The movement for cleaner athletics is one of many years’ standing, and because Notre Dame has always been identified with .	•	. propaganda for higher
' Cleaner Athletics. , standards in Varsity . ■' L .... sports, the following article from the pen pf Dean EeBaron R. Briggs,
President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, will prove of interest to local athletic enthusiasts. In discussing “The New Athlete” in the February number of Outing, Dean Briggs points out and emphazises a fact apparent to every one who follows the trend of varsity athletics—the fact that the nationwide movement for cleaner, more sportsmanlike conduct toward opposing contestants is producing a new type of college athletics; a conscientious, higher minded young man, who disdains, as cowardly and disgraceful, the old underhanded method of winning games by any means whatever. The forward tendency in University sports has evolved football and baseball players, who, even in the heat of an exciting battle, have sufficient self-control to refrain from all that is mean and unfair. As President of the Collegiate Athletic Association, Dean Briggs and his confreres make athletic history, and his eulogy of the new type of varsity sports and athletes, is one fraught with absorbing interest for all who have kept pace with the rapid upward trend of the moral tone in University sports and pastimes.
This gain in sportsmanship is no more moral than economic. With improved officials, slugging and other breaches of courtesy have ceased to pay, have accordingly become rarer, and having become rarer, are, when they do occur, more noticeable. The- player who is guilty of them is no longer the normal athlete, but a man marked in the sporting world as no gentleman, or, at best,, as an irascible' gentleman who imperils his own team. All this has a moral effect; for however much men ought to be above sordid considerations of reward and punishment, they are not, -and without these sordid considerations we might subject our students to what President Eliot calls “too great a strain on their higher motives.” Appeal to chivalry, but strengthen the appeal to chivalry by enforcing decency. See that men who, however unacademic their appearance, representing institutions of culture, shall not openly and without public censure offend against .fair play. '
■ One of the games in which such offenses are most conspicuous and most gratuitous is baseball. The ethics of - professional baseball is no subject .for us except as it affects the ethics of college baseball. The public, though it sometimes censures the brutal professional^ player as dirty, is so callous to anything short of brutality that good players—arid good men-— regard it as part of what they are paid for to unnerve an oppdnenfby fair means or by foul. Men and boys have come to think of this unnerving as a great point in the game, with which it*has no more intrinsic connection than with any other game. It thrives in baseball/under cover of that legitimate shouting into the-diamond whereby a player coaches a baserunner, > An ingenious coach finds no trouble in blending
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■	nominal advice to a friend with vocal attacks on an
j	adversary, and his example is followed in some cases
I	by the whole team. Such a coach may address a base-
|	runner with connotations intended for the pitcher,
|	while the umpire, who can not afford to rise above
[	public sentiment, stands idly by. A player—so strong
;	is the illusion that anything to rattle an opponent is
>	legitimate baseball—may hold an opponent up to
j	ridicule before thousands of spectators; a catcher may
gibe at the batsman in plain hearing of the umpire, without one word of efficient rebuke.
A year or two ago a Senior in Cambridge was taken out of the second team and tried in the first. As he i	stood at the bat the visiting catcher kept up a con-
stant fire of “Weak hitter! Weak hitter!” Not long since the marriage announcement of a college pitcher came out just before an important game. In that . game batsmen persistently chaffed him about his ~ engagement—doubtless to draw off his attention and to increase his difficulty in finding the plate.
As you see, I am not citing the worst things men . do; nor am I questioning the right of any player to an occasional spontaneous remark; nor am I denying that even in baseball things are not so bad as they were. I am pointing out cases in which players who
I	should be gentlemen show that, for the time being,
!	they are not, and receive no public rebuke for con-
temptible public conduct. Repressing such conduct by law will not transform the spirit that prompts it, but will create—in time—such a habit of decency as shall restore in some degree the students’ sense of proportion—a sense of proportion that many a youth who is not radically unfairminded has lost. . . I - discuss but one game and make but one suggestion; yet the principle of that suggestion applies to all games and to every contest. There was some terribly bad sportsmanship in the Presidential campaign last year. There is terribly bad sportsmanship in many—if not most—elections, whether of officers of a school or of rulers for a nation. Every little we can do to make clean our national game helps our citizens to make clean the greater game of our national life, for clean sport means honest men. -----------------------------------------
The Ingersoll Symphony Orchestra.
Two excellent concert companies appeared . here within a week, and an adequate treatment of either, would leave but few unemployed encomiums for bestowal upon the other. The Ingersoll Symphony Orchestra fully justified all’favorable press notices and came up to the most sanguine expectations. This forty piece orchestra, although but recently organized, played with the precision and perfect technique of a veteran concert company. Miss’ Helen Charleton is possessed of a clear and pure-toned soprano voice, hardly adapted, however, to concert singing. Her rendition of “Io son Titania,” from “Mignon” was particularly pleasing, and earned a well-merited encore.
Miss Bess Arbor is a very clever violinist for her years, and gives abundant promise of achieve-ing distinction in her profession. That Mr. Ingersoll himself, a former instructor in music at Notre Dame, knows the tastes of a college audience, was evidenced in the fact that he interspersed his classical selections, with several numbers of a lighter nature. From the opening Symphony in B. minor, to Grieg’s Peer Gynt Suite, the performance of the Ingersoll Symphony Orchestra was an unqualified success, and augurs well for the future attainments of South Bend’s latest musical organization.
Professor Hay on the Glacial Era.
A very interesting lecture by Professor Hay, of the Carnegie Institute at Washington, in which he illustrated with stereopticon views the faunal life of the glacial epoch, occupied the first hour of the Monday afternoon classes. Professor Hay is one of the foremost vertebrate ' paleontologists in the country, and his remarks were followed attentively by his auditors. He depicted and described the wonderful monsters of the Pleistocene age, explaining their-modes of attack and defense, their size, characteristics and habitat. The mammoth, the great cave bears, and the ancestors of the horse, deer, peccary and other quadrupeds were flashed upon the screen, either restored or as they actually appeared when disinterred. Prof. Hay’s instructive discourse, supplemented. by the stereopticon slides, were of more than ordinary interest to those students now engaged in the annual struggle with the theory of evolution.	'	'
Mr Charles Saunders, Tenor. .
All who heard Mr.- Charles Saunders, the great English tenor, in recital in Washington hall, Wednesday, evening will experience no difficulty in discerning the reason for his very marked success on the concert stage, on both, sides of the Atlantic. Mr. Saunders is gifted with an exceptionally pure, rich, voix< pleine tenor. ■ perfectly adaptable to and equally pleasing in light or difficult selections. Individual mention of some of Mr. Saimder’s numbers would only serve to slight others ' equally praiseworthy, but certainly we can not fail to remark the superb rendition of his interpretation of Handel’s 1 “Sound an Alarm” and the equally effective

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
428
dialect songs, and the selection from “The Gondoliers.” Miss Clara Robson, .contralto, pleased in duet and solo, with a rare clear and flawless coloraturo voice. The duet, “Home to Our Mountains” from “Il Trouvatore by Miss Robson and Mr. Saunders, is unquestionably the.best single number presented in the course of the entire season.
The instrumental numbers by Mr. Norman Attwell, violincellist, and Miss Jessie Attwell, pianist, maintained the high standard of attainment established by Air. Saunders and Miss Robson.
Personals.
—John P. McEvoy, “The Gist and Jest of It’.’ of the Chicago Record-Herald, enjoyed last Sunday with the old boys. “Mac” was a student at Notre Dame during To-’n, and had many acquaintances to renew.
—Raymond J. Sieber (Litt. B. ’13) visited at the University Monday afternoon. “Ray” was en route to Cleveland, Ohio, where he is to be Assistant Advertising Manager for the Masters’ Building Company.
—“Ed” Norton, of much fame at Notre Dame a few years ago, was a caller on friends here last Monday. “Ed” was returning from a mid-winter vacation to his new home in Detroit where he is engaged in automobile work.
—Thomas A. Furlong (E. E. ’13) called on friends at the University last Wednesday. “Tom” is in the electrical department of the Allis Chalmers Manufacturing Company at West Allis, Wisconsin, where he has been located since last June.	'
—Judge John J. Eggeman of Pt. Wayne, Indiana, made an after-dinner speech last Monday evening in the Brownson refectory. The Judge, in a pleasing manner, recalled incidents of his days at Notre Dame. He was a student here from 1898-1901, and played center on the football teams of those years.
—Vincent R. Ryan (LL- B. ’13) of Bay City Michigan, has this gratifying news for us: “According to present indications I am entitled to hang out a. ‘shingle’ conveying notice to the public at large that a new lawyer has been ; turned loose, and is ready to relieve in a legal . method, minds and hearts and purses of all overwhelming burdens.” Congratulations, Vin!
Local News.
- —The men in St. Joe hall are sure that they will be able to take a shower bath before Lent— and in their own hall, too.
—The basketball game with the Michigan Aggies, which was to be played at Lansing on February 3, has been changed to February 4.
—Mr. Slason Thompson of the Chicago Tribune will speak to the School of Journalism next Tuesday. On the following day Mr. C. N. Fassett of the South Bend News-Times will lecture to the same class.
—Close upon the dedication of the “1914 Dome” comes the news that Indiana University has dedicated her “1914 Arbutus” to James Whitcomb Riley, the Hoosier poet. It is the first time the honor has been conferred on one not connected with the University.
' —The new Novitiate has now the admiration ■ of every resident at Notre Dame. Brother Columkille was the architect and contractor of the building and he is also carving the altar for it. The novices moved into their new home t on December 16, and on January 6 nine young 1 men received the habit.
—Father Cavanaugh announces that the tango and all other similar dances will be barred from all Notre Dame dances this year. He has considered it fitting to make this announcement before any. of the University’s social affairs are held, the first of which will be the Military Ball, February 18.
—A number of the Senior law men have organized a class in public-speaking to be supervised entirely by the members. All the speeches are to be impromptu and every member is to talk for three minutes. A different chairman will preside at each meeting, and the criticism will be offered by the members.
—The attention of the student body is called to a recent regulation of the Faculty regarding make-up work in their classes. “A student who is absent from class through sickness or for some other legitimate reason, may at the end of. the quarter, recover in the regular way, lost percentage in so far as this is necessary to secure him "a passing mark.” .
—The Notre Dame Rifle Club held a meet last Monday with the University of Pennsylvania. Notre Dame’s score was as follows: J. Robins, 186; E: Bott, 185; C. Derrick, 183;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
R. Sullivan, 183; M. Vogel, 180. Total, 917. The Quakers’ score will be learned later. In the recent shoot with the Oregon Aggies, the score was, Notre Dame, 923; Aggies, 896.
—Position Ottered—A graduate in Electrical Engineering may secure a good place in the Sales Department of the American Carbon & Battery Company, East St. Louis, Illinois. Address Mr. Harold J. Wrape, Secretary.
—Walter Camp says, “Football has reached such a high state of perfection that there is little room for improvement in the rules. Of late years the possibility of injury has been reduced to a minimum which incidentally involves a more open and more scientific style of play. In this fact lies the possibility for a change in the rules, namely, the reintroduction of a field judge. This becomes necessary because the plays made possible under the forward pass and quick kick are beginning to take on such complicated varieties that two officials can no longer be expected to cover every point.”
—In memory of Ralph Dimmick, former Notre Dame student and athlete, who died in Portland, Oregon, in 1912 as a result of injuries received in a football game, the students of the University are to have erected over his grave a bronze slab. Dimmick was a student at Notre Dame from 1908 to 1911, and captain of the football team in 1911. The tablet, which is at present in the corridor of the main building, is inscribed as follows: “In memory of Ralph Dimmick, an all-American, athlete, student and man, whose N. D. was on his heart, an athlete in the class room, a scholar on the field, and everywhere a man. Erected by the students of Notre Dame in tribute' to a memory they wish to perpetuate and hope to share.” R. I. P.
—At their last meeting of the present semester, Sunday evening, the Brownson Literary and Debating Society chose the following officers for the ensuing term; Charles P. Somers (Illinois), president; James Lawler (Pennsylvania), vice-president; Stuart Carroll (Missouri), secretary; Leonard Carroll (Missouri), treasurer; William Henry (Illinois), sergeant-at-arms; . Paul V. Duffy (Missouri), reporter; and Francis Ott (California), chaplain. Father Walsh, critic, prodded the society with a- timely “get-together” talk, which, with the election of new officers, is expected to put new life into the society and eventuate a more efficient organization for carrying on the increasing amount of work of the coming term.
429A
Athletic Notes.
. Varsity Trims M. A. C. '
Sweet Retribution! The memory of last year’s defeat at the hands of the “Aggies” was , effectively wiped out last Saturday night, when the visitors went down to the count of 28-16. The contest was a neck and neck race all the way, until, with a whirlwind spurt that netted ten points, the Varsity drew ahead in the last minutes of. play. It was a grand fight all the way through, and by far and away the most interesting that has been seen in several ’ seasons.
- Although the contest was not to start until 8:15, the local enthusiasts began to pour into the big gym at 7:30. New stands had been . erected on the east side of the court, but every seat, upstairs and down, was taken when the visitors came on the floor at eight o’clock. They were greeted by deafening cheers, the \ rooters showing some of the “pep” that marked the football games of last fall. The reception -to the Aggies, however, was nothing to that which the Gold and Blue warriors received when they trotted onto the court. Both teams had their eyes on the basket in practice, and the ' Farmers had plenty of time to become accustomed to the local court before Barnhart called , the game.
The home quint lined up with Fitzgerald -and Cahill at the forwards, Mills at the pivot position, and the “Coast Defense”—Kelleher and Finegan at guards. It is a noteworthy . fact that three of these men hail from Columbia . College, Portland Oregon, and one from the \ opposite side of the continent, Newark, New Jersey.	.	'	_ .
Within a few seconds after the whistle blew, , Kelleher came down the floor with a. rush, grabbed a pass from Cahill,- and made good the first basket. For the next few minutes* Notre Dame’s passing swept the visitors off their feet, and the locals’ basket was bombarded from all angles. Luck was against them,. however, ; and no points were forthcoming. Finally, H. Miller, the visiting right forward picked the - ; ball out . of the air, dribbled to the middle of • ' the court, and then essayed a long heave, that: . went clean through without touching the rim. • At this stage, one of the Farmers became .excited, and* enthusiastically, embraced “»Fitz”, / long enough for the referee to notice.it, and <
430
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the tip-off, Nowers leaped forward and got the ball. Both the opposing guards rushed at him, but he was going so fast that they were laid flat, and “Curley’s” overhead pass to Cahill resulted in another basket. Then the visitors managed to cage one. A foul was called on Mills, and it being the fourth personal, he was taken »from the game. Fitzgerald shifted to centre, Kenney going to forward. The Massachusetts lad broke into the scoring immediately with a difficult shot,—and the game
was over.
Notre Dame Cahill (Capt.) Fitzgerald, Kenny Mills, Fitzgerald Finegan Kelleher, Nowers
L. F.
R. F.
C.
L. G.
R. G.
Field goals—Fitzgerald, 4;
Varsity s first trip into hostile territory was a decided success, resulting in a decisive victory over- her old-time enemy,. Wabash, by a score of 23 to 16. This conquest goes a long way towards establishing Notre Dame’s claims to the State basketball championship, and the Red and White are said to have a stronger team than last year, and we have the word of none other than Pete Vaughan, that they could beat Purdue, at Crawfordsville, by ten points.	‘	.
For three quarters of the game, it looked as if the Varsity was doomed to defeat, as, with but seven minutes left to play, the score stood 15 to 16, in favorx of the home team. But with one of the rallies that has made the reputation of the Gold and Blue as a never-sav-die aggregation; one of the same kind that won
Cahill scored a point. • For the next few minutes, Finegan was in the limelight. Grabbing a Blue and White pass, he took a long shot, but the perverse ball rolled off the rim. Then the Aggies with some clever passing, brought the . sphere down the court, intent on adding to their total. They were met by Finegan who engaged them single-handed for a couple of minutes until help came. A foul gave the visitors a point. Fitz then missed an easy one 'from.under the goal but immediately atoned by scoring a long-shot from mid-field. The Michigan boys then tightened their defense - preventing field goals, but after five minutes play Mills scored a long shot and Cahill hit the basket with a one-hand heave from the side of the court.
With Notre Dame possessed of a fair lead, the visitors fought harder than ever, and soon men were being bowled over right and left. The Gold and Blue guards were going great, and in-addition to his defensive work, Finegan	,
found time to sift a long one through for two Varsity Wallops Little Giants. . ' more points. This put the visitors on an edge, and with a combination of teamwork and pretty shooting they made three baskets in rapid succession, bringing the score to 12-9. Mills then rung a basket up on the pistol-crack, but it was thrown out.	.
The second half began with Nower’s taking - Kelleher’s place. M. A. C. started to rough . it, and two fouls were called, one being converted into a point. The rest seemed to have deranged the locals’ eyesight: they missed one easy shot after another. With the score so close, this ’ began to get on the rooters’ nerves, and all sorts of pleas went forth to make ’em good.” Cahill was making the fight of his life on the floor, . breaking up all kinds of passes, but his teammates couldn’t ring up points.
. The spell -was broken when Mills took a pass
from Cahill and dropped it in on the run. over South Dakota and West Point on the grid-( The visitors retaliated with a field goal for them- iron, and over the Michigan Aggies last week - selves, and then the Varsity tore open the in basketball, Cahill’s men gathered seven throttle.. It’s the same old story—Notre Dame points in as many minutes, meanwhile holding :	in a whirlwind finish.. A piece of fine passing their opponents scoreless.	.
\ and Fitzgerald.scored. An instant later Cahill The same line-up was used that trimmed the ;; widened the gap with a long shot, and his big Aggies last Saturday with Nowers and Kenney running mate came right back with another, taking the places of Kelleher and Fitzgerald When the rooters perceived that the Varsity in the. second half. In the opening session, ' had at lasthit their stride,their former pleadings Cahill was the: particularlybright star, ringing : J turned to cheers. Two folds' by the visitors in three long shots and scoring once from the V-were converted into' Cash by Fitzgerald; The foul line. In the second half, Kenney dupli-> next play was the prettiest of tie evening; on cated. the captain’s performance, making the
I
M. A. C.
Gauthier (Capt.) Vetz Fremedig, Peptard Goss, O. Miller H. Miller, Reynolds Cahill, . 2; Mills, 2 ;
Fremedig, 2; H. Miller, 2; Finegan, Kelleher, Kenny,* Gauthier, Peptard and Vetz. Foul goals—Fitzgerald, 4; Cahill, 2; Goss, 2. Halves—20 minutes. Referee —Barnhart (Indiana).
THE NOTRE DAN E SCHOLASTIC
431
points "just when they were most needed.
. Notre Dame (23) Cahill (Capt). Fitzgerald, Kenny-Mills .
Finegan
Kelleher, Nowers
Field goals—Mills,
R. F.
L. F.
C.
L. G.
R. G.
3; Cahill, 3;
gerald, 1; Eglin, 2; Dale, 2; Ellis, Foul goals—Fitzgerald, 2; Cahill, 1;
Wabash (16)
Eglin
Dale
Ellis Goodbar
Leffel
Kenny, 3; Fitz-Goodbar, Leffel. Dale, 2. Referee
—"Dud” Moloney (Notre Dame ’it).
'	‘ Interhall Basketball.
The interhall basketball season opens’ tomorrow with a game between St. Joseph and Walsh. The outcome of the contest can not be predicted, for both halls will present teams that are practically unknown. Walsh already has one victor}'- to her credit, having defeated the Holy Name team in South Bend by a . score of 40 to 15. The Walsh team will be heavy and fast. With several of last year’s men in line and Grady playing a sensational game at centre, Walsh will have a dangerous team. St. Joseph is being touted by many as the dark horse in the race. Capt. Beckman is a reliable forward and much is expected of Ward, a heavy man with a good high-school record. Ward is being boosted as Varsity material by-.those .who have seen him in action. Stack will not play this year, but “Nig” Kane will be in' the St. Joseph line-up. The southwest siders should prove a strong contender.
Displaying wonderful teamwork and excellent passing, Corby defeated the South Bend Commercial Athletic Club on Tuesday night by a score of 54 to 22; Gushurst led the attack of the Braves with seven baskets, while Kirkland with six and Daly with five were close behind.. ;Pliska and Corcoran put up a strong defense and the Commercials were never dangerous. At this time it seems that Corby is due to repeat last year’s victory in basketball. The Corbyites not only have the advantage of an early start but they are playing the most sensational brand of basketball ever seen in interhall. . This of course does not mean that Corby will have ho opposition, for there may
be even greater sensations in the other halls
when the season gets fairly under way. Much Brownson, fourth.
is expected from Hanley, Walsh,, and Cofall of Sorin. With two more good men in line, Sorin should be as’ strong as many college teams. Brownson is starting. under unfavorable conditions, Captain Bott being laid up sick.
Interhall Track Meet.	"S
Corby captured' the indoor track honors on Thursday afternoon after a desperate struggle with Brownson. The meet was unquestionably one of the best events in interhall history. But one slam was scored, that being made by ?: Brownson in the high jump. The winner in each event was clocked in Varsity time, and all doubts as to the strength of the Varsity track team were dispelled. In three events, the .. forty-yard dash, the high hurdles and the. low hurdles, the records hung up by Wasson and ■ Pritchard in the Notre Dame-Chicago Athletic Association meet last year were equalled, : while in two others, the shot put and the two- . twenty yard dash, the records made in that ? meet were eclipsed. ’ The showing of the : freshmen stars, Hardy, Bechman, Van Thron,-Yeager, Martin, Kirkland and Haydon, was : especially pleasing. Last year’s men put up -a strong fight against our new track stars and -the plucky work of Bartholomew, Fritch, % Bergman and Lynch was worthy of mention. /
40 yd. dash—Bergman, Corby, first; Hardy, Brownson, second; Van Thron, Corby, third. .Time; 0:04 3-5.	.	'
.40 yd. high hurdles—Larkin, Corby, first; Kirkland,. Corby, second; Duggan, Sorin, and Fritch, Brownson, tied for third. Time 0:05 3-5.	-
Mile Run—Wagge, Corby, first; Barth'olomew, St. Joe, second; Costello, Corby, third; McOscar, St.. Joe, fourth. Time, 5:08.	, •
High Jump—Yeager, Brownson, and Hand Brown- -son-, tied for first; Miller, Brownson, and O’Shea, Brownson, tied for third. Height, 5 ft. 6 in.	.
220-yard dash—Hardy, Brownson,, first; Bergman, - . Corby, second; O’Shea, Brownson, third; McDonough, . : Corby, fourth. Time :2q.	■	.	. '
40 yd. low hurdles—Kirkland, Corby, first; Fritch, Brownson, second; 'Larkin, Corby, - and Duggin, Sorin, tied for third. Time 0:5 1-2.	, - ..
880-yd. - run—Wagge, Corby first; Bartholomew, . -St. Joe, second; A. .McDonough, Corby, third; Kin-< . sella, Corby, fourth. Time, 2:11. '	.	;
Pole -vault—Yeager, Brownson, first; Lynch, Brown-/ ■' . son, second; Mattingly, Corby, third; Brady, Browns . , . . son, fourth. Height, 10 feet, .6 inches.. . '	/
440-yard dash—Van Thron, Corby, first; Hayden, Brownson, second; Welsh, Corby, third; F.. Me- ;. . Donough, Corby, fourth. Time, 0:56 576. , .	. .
Shot put—Bechman, Corby, first; Martin/Brown- / ; son, second; Fitzgerald, Corby, third; Lathrop,/; /}
Distance,. 41 feet 10 1-2 inches
Broad jump—Martin, Brownson, first; ' Bechman, Corby, second; Haydon, Brownson, third; Hand, Brownson, fourth. Distance, 20 feet, 6 Jnches. ,..f
Relay raco—Corby (Bergman, Wagge,. VanThorn, Larkin), first; Brownson . (Haydon, O’Shea, . Hardy,
Fritch) second.

432
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
Time—Christmas holidays.
Place—Home of Marjorie R.
Marjorie’s Mother—So you are back from school, John, after a long, hard stretch of work? I understand Notre Dame is one of the strictest and best schools in the country.
John—Yes, Mrs. R., I was just saying to Marjorie that N. D. has about everything that’s worth having. No student can stay there and loaf.
Marjorie's Mother—It seems strange to me that a progressive school like that never started a course in military drill. I believe that military training is posi-' tively the best thing for a boy. . I am told that Swath-more has a regular army officer to put the students through the various movements.
Jo/zw—Why, Mrs. R., we’ve had a regular course in military drill at Notre Dame for. the last five- years. We have a captain and a sergeant from the United States Army. We go through all the setting-up exercises, do the different drills, and have the strict army discipline. It’s a bit difficult at first, but its . the only training for a student. It makes him able to use his head in a pinch, and keeps him cool under the most trying circumstances. No, Mrs. R., I wouldn’t miss a course in it .for anything. '
■ [Three weeks after at N. D. The bugle blows for drill.)
.	John—Well the -idiot who invented drill should be
executed without trial. To think we have humane societies and societies for the prevention of cruelty and still drill is tolerated.
***
And as .is always the case, the ban was put on the tango just out of pure meanness—and to prevent the tight military uniforms from being ripped.
There’s no use scolding those boys who had their hair all clipped off. Look at their heads and you’ll understand the reason.
. ***
Or as the Walsh halier said, "Students are born and not made, and there’s not one born every minute in Chicago.”
‘ *** ■
.	-	Let Socialism Come.
Student—That Greek out there has nothing to do but sell hot dogs and pop corn and he gets money for it. We have to study our blamed heads off and all ' we get is abuse from our prefects.
.	-	4**	.	_
:	■	Nowhere to Jump^	’
' . Lent’s coming and the lid is on.	.
- ' - - - ***' \ _
’ We will now - illustrate the difference between the Mastadon and the Elephant by a map of the -United States. .	.
- . -- . ***: - ' ■ - '
f ■ • The other day as we passed by Walsh Hall we heard : a student singing the words, “You Made Me. Love
You.” We listened arid are now convinced he was. singing about the. Prefect of discipline.
The Optimist.
It snows too often and it thaws too often. One or the other ought to stop.
***
A Royal Flush.	.
Negligent Nig, the rierv'y nephew of an uncle of his, sauntered slyly southward on a certain dark and dismal night with the desperate demon-glare in his eye.
“Ha-ha!” he screamed, “I have foiled the watchman and now to break the bank at Hullies.” The glittering glare of our hero’s other eye told the story of the ripping, roaring, rampage that was going on within him, while the sleeping and snoring students told the story of a hall that was going on without him. Just as he reached the furnished fire-house the frenzied fiend fumbled for his finance,
“Ye gods and whoop snakes,” he curled, “I have not any but a pocket piece and a penny.” _
Imagine, dear reader, the terrible tumult of turbulent tongue-taunts that the dark-faced, dare-devil flung fiercely into his proud countenance.
“I must have lucre,” were the simple sounds that slid from the slick, youth. ’	•
Limberly leaping to the rotten roof-of the wholesome hose house, he anxiously awaited a wealthy victim. His spiteful eye spied Leander, the lengthy loan lender, curbing around the corner.
“The deed, the dastardly deed,” the desperate ding hissed to himself. Quickly and quietly he drew his breath, with a horrible hurl he heaved a heavy sigh. It simply struck the lonesome loan lender on the—way down, and laid him limply low. In another measley moment the sleek serpent was upon him, then the cunning cuss cleverly stole away.
With the pilfered proceeds of his crusty crime the venomous vampire proceeded proudly to Hullies. With gloating glee he glared grinningly at the pepless penny machine.
“A bale of bitter beetles,” he shouted sonorously, “can not prevent me from twisting the tiger’s tail.” His slouchy smock and sinful, serpertine smile tickled tiny-Tommy into tuneful tears. Snorting students had scared him befor.e. Nautical Nig daringly demanded five sous in return for a jingling jit. The plunging pompadoured prevaricator then proceeded— perhaps to pulverize the penny machine.
We tearfully tease and askingly ask to be allowed to peacefully put the hollow hook to this sad and stirring story. For your crushing curiosity, dear old diligent . reader, let us sparingly state that the wretched young reptile returned.homeward. He would have grasped the burly bank, but he negligently neglected to wake from a slumbering sleep.
. We discovered the. dripping digit leaning languidly against a lonely lamppost while his musty mit' held the robber royal flush which bafled him at the sorrowful scene of his baff. -; *** =	-	'
It was pretty, hard on a new Brownson hall' student who wanted to give his lady friends at home an idea of his swell room at N. D. . Instead of saying he resided in Walsh hall he said Rockefeller Hall. Quite a natural mistake, of course, but.what must his friends have thought who-knew" about Notre Dame?