m noire am
gyowsnc
urn (wus nous mp^zinc
THE LOG CHAPEL
As It Was Rebuilt in 1906
(Story on Page 13)
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
INTERHALL DEBATES CONTINUE RADIO GROUP ACTIVE BIOLOGY BUILDING PROGRESS NEW "LAWYER" OUT
NORTHWESTERN GAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE CALIFORNIA TRIP PLANS "B" TEAM SEASON
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS INTRODUCING
ON DOWN THE LINE
NOVEMBER 27. 1936
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
PICK-UP and DELIVERY
EBE'S A PLAY with punch and results—a winning touchdown combination for the railroads! It has to do with the handling of less-than-carload or package freight. Some railroads have gone into motor trucking. Others have developed large metal containers that can be swung on and off flat cars. Others have provided rail transfer for loaded trucks or trailers. • All have combined at length in offering a complete free pick-up and delivery service, using motor trucks to and from freight stations. This reduces inter-city trucking and assures railway responsibility for the whole movement at no increase over die previously existing rate for the rail part of the movement alone. • The Illinois Central pioneered among the railroads in giving free pick-up and delivery universal application.
This railroad also led in offering less-than-carload freight service via passenger train at freight rates, in providing free pick-up at the feed-lot for livestock awaiting consolidation into carloads for movement to market, in establishing overnight freight service between points as far apart as Chicago and Memphis. • In such ways an alert railroad makes its own "breaks" for the touchdown that insures victory in business.
REMINDER. ..
Modern railroads operate on definite principles—principles which have been developed by sifting theories through facts.
One major railway principle is this—it pays to please the public. Investments in convenience, comfort, safety, speed are sound investments.
As users of railway service and as the educational beneficiaries . of railway taxes and security endowments, young people should find much of interest in the applied theories of our progressive railroads.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
-	AN INDIANA RAILROAD	■
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
November 27, 1936
No. 9
INTERHALL DEBATERS ENTER SECOND WEEK OF COMPETITION; WALSH HALL TEAM ELIMINATED BY DILLON SQUAD
DR. HAAS TO LECTURE ON "THE ATOM AND THE UNIVERSE"
By Graham Starr
A streak of victories by affirmative interhall debating teams was broken Monday night when Freshman Hall negative, in its first debate of the season, beat Cavanaugh Hall, in the court room of the Law Building. Members of the winning team were Jerome J. O’Doud, of Fort Wayne, Ind.; James P. Aylward
of Kansas City, Mo., and Walter Hagen, Jr., of Detroit, Mich. The Rev. Joseph F. Luttman, C.S.C., judged the debate.
In Science Hall, Dillon, affirmative, composed of Richard Foley, of Detroit, Mich.; Thomas Funk, of Anderson, Ind., and Edward McDonough, of Parkersburg, W. Va., eliminated the Walsh team made up of Basil Gillespie, Cy Stroker, and Martin Husung. Walsh was previously beaten by Howard. Two defeats are necessary to eliminate a team.
The third debate of the evening between St. Edward’s, affirmative, and Badin, negative, scheduled for the Cushing Hall of Engineering failed to materialize, and the St. Edward’s team lost by default. Last week, Freshman Hall lost to St. Edward’s also by default.
Team Standings to Date
On Wednesday of last week, in the debate judged by the Rev. John J. Hooyboer, C.S.C., the Dillon team (affirmative) defeated the Alumni squad.
Here are the standings of the interhall teams according to latest returns. The number designates number of debates lost; the letter, the side defended by the team: N-Walsh-2 (eliminated), A-Howard-0, A-Sorin-0, N-Alumni-1, A-Dillon-0, N-Brownson-Carroll-1, N-Badin-1, A-Morrissey-0, N-Lyons-0, N-Freshman-1 (default), A-St. Edward’s-1 (default), and A-Cavanaugh-1.
Other debates scheduled for this week are: Cavanaugh vs. Lyons, Sorin vs. Alumni, Morrissey vs. Lyons, and Howard vs. Brownson-Carroll.
George B. Morris is general chairman of the debates. The Wranglers sponsor interhall debating each year to provide activities for those interested in debating, as well as to offer a school of experience for those who wish to take part in the activities.
Chairman George Morris Runs Interhall Wrangles.
TWENTY-NINE RETURN FOR OLD TIMERS1 REUNION
Twenty-nine “Old Timers” assembled on the campus during the weekend of the Northwestern-Notre Dame game for their second annual reunion. This year’s group comprised those . Monogram men who attended Notre Dame during the years 1900 to 1905. The reunion was in charge of Daniel O’Connor, of Chicago, Ill., and James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary.
The “Old Timers” who attended were: Robert L. Bracken, Dixon, Ill.; Raymond J. Burns, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Durant Church, Bowie, Md.; William Desmond, Woodstock, III.; William A. Draper, Chicago, Ill.; Judge Michael L. Fansler, Indianapolis, Ind.; Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Arthur Funk, LaCrosse, Wis.; Walter J. Gearin, Portland, Oregon; Harry J. Geoghegan, Gary, Ind.; Ralph L. Glynn, St. Paul, Minn.; Charles Hemp, St:. Louis, Mo.; Martin Herbert, Milwaukee, Wis.; Frank E. Her- |
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, professor of theoretical physics at the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the second of a series of lectures concerning the field of physics next Thursday evening, Dec. 3, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The topic of Dr. Haas’ talk will be “The Atom and the Universe.”
An eminent authority on the atomic theory of matter, Dr. Haas will discuss in his lecture discoveries in the field of atomic physics, including the structure of atoms, transmutation of chemical elements, the building-stones of atoms and the various findings of the modern physicists and astronomers resulting in their belief in the finiteness of the universe.
Dr. Haas joined the faculty of the University this Fall. He was formerly a professor of physics at the University of Vienna, Austria. His textbooks, which have appeared in over ten languages, are regarded as standard throughout the world.
Prof. Collins Talks To Electrical Engineers
Professor George Collins of the Physics department gave a lecture at the last meeting of the A.I.E.E., held in the Engineering building, on “High Voltage Electrical Work, in regard to the Vand de Graf sphere-generator now under construction in the high tension laboratories.
The senior student paper was given by Henry Wirry. His subject was “Static Electricity.”
Smokes and refreshments concluded the meeting.
ing, South Bend, Ind.; Harry G. Hogan, Ft. .Wayne, Ind.
Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, Ill.; Robert Lynch, Green Bay, Wis., Daniel L. Murphy, Fanner City, Ill.; Edward W. McDermott, Waukegan, Ill.; Lawrence McNemey, Elgin, III.; Daniel J. O’Connor, Chicago, Hl.; John B. Pick, Wes Bend, Wis.; Edwin C. Pick, West Bend, Wis.; Louis J. Salmon, Chicago, Ill.; James Sherry, New York City; Oscar Smith, Rock (Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
RADIO GROUP PRESENTS TWO NEW SERIES OF VARIETY AND DRAMATIC HOURS;
ANNOUNCING STAFF NAMED
By Gregory Byrnes
During the past month the radio group has been unusually active. Beginning with the Founder’s Day celebration the group has steadily added programs to its schedule until now it has reached a point about half-way in the intended scale of activity. Notre Dame programs do not as yet occupy as much time as they formerly did but	_
they have been of a decidedly better quality.
A new series of programs to be known as “Notre Dame Varieties” was inaugurated last Tuesday evening when the group presented a radio adaptation of Edgar Allen Poe’s play “The Facts in the Case of Monsieur Valdemar.” The cast included Robert Browne, Thos. Bossort, and Norbert Aleksis. The plans for the new “Notre Dame Varieties” give every promise that it will prove to be one of the most popular of campus radio features. The first week of every month ■will feature the “Notre Dame Radio Playhouse” — a half-hour dramatic presentation similar to that of last Tuesday evening.
To Feature Music Units
On the second Tuesday the variety show will feature the music of the Glee Club and Band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta as well as news and sport flashes by The Scholastic radio staff and brief comedy sketches. For the third and fourth weeks of every month the Varieties will feature the news and sports flashes and comedy sketches but the music will be supplied by the Notre Dame Collegians dance orchestra. The popularity of the Band, the Glee club, and the Collegians, under the direction of Prof. Casasanta, will insure the new variety program a wide audience both on the campus and in South Bend. It is planned to include any campus talent that is good enough and to make the program a real variety show.
For the past few weeks the regular Monday evening meetings of the group have been taken up with auditions and with instruction of the new men in the elements of radio technique. Norbert Aleksis, student manager of radio, has announced that the staff announcers for the first semester will be the following men:
Jerry Gillespie, Lewis Smith, Gerry Schaefer, George Morris, John Gorman, Dick Foley, Charles Osborn, Eugene Dolan.
Edward O’Connor, Jack Solon, Robert Browne, John Starkie, Ber-
(Continued on Page 22)
LAWYER MAKES FIRST APPEARANCE ON WEDNESDAY
• By John Callaghan The associate editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer presented their first quarterly edition of the twelfth vol-
Associate Editor Martin One of the quartette
ume on the campus last Wednesday, Nov. 25.
Although this edition carries no startling innovations or changes, the whole thing is extremely well done in the choosing and the writing of the material. This premier edition is replete with the names of many distinguished men, chief among them being Professors William M. Cain, of the faculty of the Law School of Notre Dame, Mr. James J. Kearney, Mr. Joseph E. Keller and Mr. Francis W. Matthys, who graduated from the Law School of Notre Dame in 1936.
Professor Cain has written an answer to an artcle which appeared in the January issue of American Mercury on “Don’t Be a Lawyer.”
Professor William Cain received hi s LL.B, from the University of Nebraska in 1894 and was admitted to the Bar in 1895. After practicing in Nebraska for five years he was
(Continued on Page 20)
CONCERT BAND DRILL FOR BASKETBALL APPEARANCES
•
The entire University band, 100 strong, will turn out for the first concert of the basketball season, in the Field House, Dec. 5. This year, as has been the custom in past years, there will be a 30 minute concert before the beginning of the game, and a 15 minute series of selections between the halves.
Prof. Joseph Casasanta, director of the Band, Glee Club and the Symphony orchestra, will lead the band through its various melodies. Mr. Casasanta directed the numbers at the games last year when popular music was particularly well received by the student body. He hopes to arrange his programs similar to those of last year.
The Band took part in a parade Sunday which greeted the national commander of the American Legion on his arrival in South Bend.
This year’s Band, in addition to its regular uniform, has adopted white spats. These were first worn at the Army game in New York, and later at the Northwestern game here last Saturday. The white spats set off the dark uniforms very well, and make the University Band one of the most nattily attired musical organizations of its type in collegiate circles. Another addition to the Band uniform, seen for the first time at the Army game, is the green shamrock, worn on the white crown of the band cap.
A new formation for the marching band was used at the Northwestern game. This routine ends in a large shamrock while the Band plays “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.”
A smoker in honor of the Band was held in the Faculty dining hall, Tuesday night.
Polish Reporter Talks Before Cracow Club
Last week at a meeting of the Cracow club, the members heard Mr. Francis Czyzewski tell of his experiences during a recent trip to Poland. Mr. Czyzewski writes for the South Bend Tribune and the Chicago Dzien-nik Zwiazkowy, a Polish newspaper.
The meeting wat not well attended and the president, Joseph Pawlowski, asked that all the members be present at the next meeting on Wednesday, Dec. 2. The club will gather in the basement of the Law Building and the executive committees will be named.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
FIRST BALLOTS IN FOR COMMERCE CLUB SURVEY
Incomplete returns from scattered voting districts in the annual Commerce Forum campus poll to reveal campus preference in matters of what to buy and what not to buy, seem to indicate that the tastes of Notre Dame men do not vary much from year to year.
Fourteen hundred ballots were distributed by Tuesday, Nov. 24, and the announcement of results will be made next week. Approximately 1200 blanks were filled out for the survey and, since the ballot distribution was on a proportional basis both as to hall and to class, it will be an accurate measure of student opinion.
According to members of the Forum who are directing the drive, student response; especially to the advertising section, has been enthusiastic.
Among the selections apparently headed for the top spot are Colliers among the magazines; the South Bend News-Times in the newspapers; and the “Hit Parade” on the airways.
Eighteen Virginians Form New Club
An “Old Dominion Club” has been formed by 18 Virginia students and has received its charter from the S.A.C.
Charles Morrison, a junior from Lynchburg, was chosen president at the initial meeting; other officers are Frank Kelly, vice-president; Dave Brockenbrough, secretary; Bob Sheppard, treasurer. Professor T. Bowyer Campbell is faculty adviser.
Plans have been discussed for a dinner-dance to be held in Richmond during the Christmas holidays, but they are not definite as yet. A smoker is also on the schedule of proposed activities as outlined by the president.
A committee was appointed to make plans and secure a speaker for the next meeting, expected to be held Dec. 4.
Chemist Gives Talk
On Monday, November 23, Frank Frascati of the Chemists Club, gave a twenty-minute radio talk'fronvthe University broadcasting studio. His subject was “Petroleum and Its Products.” This was the second in a series of broadcasts sponsored by the Chemist’s Club. The announcer was Lewis Smith. '
The club will hold a smoker in the Carroll “Rec” on December 10th. Charles Walsh, Jr., is chairman for this smoker.
DR. FRANCIS E. McMAHON CONTINUES LECTURE SERIES AT NAZARETH COLLEGE; TALKS
AT REGIONAL PEACE MEET
•
Continuing a series of ten lectures on “Thomism and Modern Life” at Nazareth College, a Catholic college for women located at Kalamazoo, Michigan, Dr. Francis E. McMahon, instructor in philosophy at the University, last Sunday gave his second talk in the series. His subject was: “Thomism and the .	Modern Mind.”
PROFESSOR APODACA VIEWS CONSUMER
IN ECONOMICS
Speaking from an economic point of view, Professor Joseph L. Apodaca, assistant professor of Economics at the University, addressed the delegates of the Midwest Conference
Prof. Joseph Apodaca
Introduces Consumer to Economics.
of Finance Company Executives in session last Friday evening in the Oliver Hotel, South Bend.
. Fast becoming a recognized authority on consumer financing, Mr. Apodaca, a graduate of the University, discussed the topic of “Economic Implications of Consumer. Financing” in a concise and analytical manner.
He first traced the history of consumer financing and showed the development of ideas concerning that form of activity, which is now assuming an important role in the economic field, having long been subordinated to the producer formerly considered the primary activity of economics.
Stressing the present day economic importance of the consumer, Professor Apodaca discussed the advantages and disadvantages of consumer finance, which has been given much thought and consideration by the present national administration in its New Deal policies.
Professor Apodaca has been teaching here since 1930 having then obtained his A.B. degree. In 1933 the degree M.B.A. was conferred upon him by the Graduate School of Business Administration, a division of Northwestern University, Evanston.
On Sunday, December 6, Professor McMahon will discuss “Thomism and the New Psychology” in the third of ten lectures which will continue till February 21 of next year.
In between his visits to Kalamazoo, Dr. McMahon found time to represent the University at the regional Catholic Peace Conference held last Friday at Rosary College in Chicago at which Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of the President of the United States, was also present.
Dr. McMahon read one of the two papers delivered by representatives of the University. The other was given by Richard Meier, veteran varsity debater and a senior in the College of Arts and Letters.
The remaining lectures on schedule for presentation at Nazareth College are:
December 13: “Thomism and the New Humanism.”
January 10: “Thomism and Modem Science.”
January 17: “Thomism and Modern Art.”
January 24: “Thomism and the Modem Conception of God.”
February 7: “Thomism and Communism.”
February 14: “Thomism and International Peace.”
February 21: “Thomism and the Supernatural.”
Dr. McMahon, who has been teaching in the department of philosophy here since 1933, opened his discussion of “Thomism and Modem Life” at Nazareth College with an explanation and definition of the whole subject matter of philosophy in a lecture entitled, “What is Philosophy?”
A Doctor of Philosophy, Dr.-"McMahon received his A.B. degree from De Paul University, Chicago, Illinois. He then entered Catholic University in Washington, D. C., and received his A.M. degree in 1929. In 1931 he was granted a Doctor of Philosophy degree.
He began his teaching career at the College of Our Lady of the Lake, San Antonio, Texas, as an instructor of philosophy during the summers of 1929, ’30, and ’31. Through 19301931 he was an assistant at Catholic University. ’	•
As a result of diligent scholarship he was awarded the Penfield scholarship in research at the University of Louvain, Belgium, the Angelico College, Rome, Italy, and at the University of Munich, Germany.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
JUNIORS LECTURE TO SCIENCE ACADEMY MEMBERS
Robert Bryan and John Rieder, juniors in the College of Science, delivered addresses at the regular bimonthly meeting of the Academy of Science held Monday evening, November 23.
In his topic, “Sunlight and Its Values,” Bryan enumerated the therapeutic values of sunlight among which he mentioned its treatment for tuberculosis of the skin, anaemia, and as a mental stimulus. His paper was briefly criticized by Louis Cacchioli, a sophomore in the College of Science.
Discussing the subject of “Alcohol in Relation to Biology,” Rieder pointed out its degenerating effects. At the conclusion of this, Thomas Amiel gave a technical criticism of the address.
Following the speaking program a business meeting was held at which a proposed amendment to the Academy’s constitution was read, but action on the amendment was deferred until the next meeting.
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., club moderator, concluded the meeting with a brief comment on the material and presentation of the papers. Father Wenninger was very well pleased at the quality of the addresses so far presented.
Vincentians Are Given Bus Concession
The Vincentian Society announced this week that it has been granted the Greyhound Bus concession for the year. All students planning to go home for the Christmas holidays by bus are requested to visit the Society office at 10 Lyons hall for bus schedules and other details. The entire profit from this concession will go into the organization’s treasury, which funds are used for charity.
As part of the annual census conducted in St. Augustine’s Negro parish under the pastor, the Rev. Father O’Connor, the local unit of the St. Vincent de Paul Society will have ten or 12 of its members visit a select group of Negro families next week. From these, other contacts will be made, and more members will be employed in the census work.
Server's Club Smoker
The Server’s Club will hold a smoker Wednesday evening, December 2, at 7:45 in the sacristy of the Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., will be the speaker at this, the last meeting before the Christmas holidays.
Work Progresses on New Biology Building;
Structure to be Complete by Next Spring
AIR SCHOLARSHIPS
AGAIN AWARDED
BY BOEING
•
W. E. Boeing scholarships, sponsored by W. E. Boeing during the past seven years, will be offered again during the schoolyear 1936-37 to University undergraduate students in the United States and Canada, who are interested in aviation as a career.
Four awards in the form of flying, technical, and semi-technical courses with a tuition value of $11,000 will be given at the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland, Calif., a division of United Air Lines Transport Corp.
The scholarships will be awarded on the basis of a thesis competition. To be eligible students must meet the following requirements:
1.	They must be male undergraduate students in good standing and in regular attendance in some university which offers at least two years of work leading to a Bachelor’s Degree in Arts or Science.
2.	They must be of the white race, between the ages of 18 and 25, of average height and normal weight, have normal eyesight, and be free of any physical handicaps.
3.	They must submit a technical or non-technical treatise of not over 3500 words on any aeronautical subject of their own choice.
March 15, 1937 is the last day for submission of compositions, and the papers will be judged by a national committee of award headed by Dr. Baldwin M. Woods of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California.
The Biology Building As It Looked in September
Work on the new Biology Building, situated near the northeast comer of the campus, is progressing daily to completion. Authorities stated this week that the building will probably be completed by early Spring.
At present the exterior, the roof, and the basement have been finished. A feature of the basement is the use of glaze tile in the partitions.
When completed, the Biology building will be the most modem structure of its kind in the country. An entirely new idea for ventilation will be used. Three of the main rooms will be air-conditioned to afford an even temperature the year around, while the remaining rooms will be ventilated by special air-ducts.
The architecture used in the building is a strictly modern style, which breaks away from the collegiate Gothic style used in other recent additions to the campus. The innovation in style serves to give the building more practical advantages than would be obtained from the collegiate Gothic.
When completed, the structure will consist of two floors and a basement, and will be so constructed that another floor may be added if • necessary.
Included in the building will be a conservatory for botanists, located on the north of the second floor, and a spacious auditorium to be used for scientific lectures.
The building has been placed near the power plant to insure high-pressure steam to be used for experimental and classroom work, and to provide proper water pressure for the air- conditioning unit.
The cornerstone for the building was laid a short time before last year’s commencement exercises, and since that time, between 250 to 300 workmen have been engaged in the construction of the building.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
FIVE HUNDRED SALUTE VICTORY AT K. OF C. FOOTBALL DANCE
More than 200 couples enjoyed themselves at the Victory Dance, held at the Columbia Athletic Club, Saturday night.- Considered one of the most popular and successful dances of the season, the Victory Dance was sponsored by the local council of the Knights of Columbus.
Patrick Fisher, senior lawyer, of Indianapolis, acted as chairman of the dance. The music was played by the Notre Dame Collegians, directed by Frank Barbush. Several unique arrangements were played, and two numbers written by Director Barbush were also used.
Ticket sales were conducted in each of the halls by a representative of the Knights of Columbus. The funds from tins dance were used as a partial payment of the assessment levied by the Indiana Chapter* of the Knights of Columbus on the local council for the upkeep of the Gibault Home in Terre Haute.
The Knights of Columbus in Indiana support the-home financially, and it is directed by the Brothers of the Holy Cross Congregation. The Gibault Home for wayward Catholic boys is one of the finest of its type in the country; the success of its work is measured by the splendid character - building program which helps the young men become respectable citizens.
Hallowed Steps To Administration Building Razed; New Ones to be Finished Within Week
The new front steps on the Administration building are fast nearing, completion. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., in charge of the work, stated early this week that “weather permitting the steps will be completed within a week.”
Casual observers will possibly notice little change in the appearance of the front porch. The intention of those who drew up the plans was to preserve the former appearance of the porch as much as possible but at the same time to erect some substantial support for it.
The steps leading to the porch have been changed considerably; the former steep pitch has been made shallower, with the steps reaching farther
Install New Hammond Organ In Church
A Hammond electric organ, an instrument producing pipe organ tones by electric amplification, has been installed in Saacred Heart Church. The organ previously in use will remain in the church where it has been played at services for more than 60 years. It will be used on a few occasions throughout the year, and will probably be rebuilt for use by the choir.
The new organ console is located at the rear of the altar with amplifiers on either side of the main arch. It has a double manual keyboard and together with the amplifiers it is sufficiently light in .weight to be easily moved for use outside of the chiirch.
The selection of the • new instrument was made by Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., Litt.B., it is - an innovation in the organ industry and has been in production for little more than a year.	.
Plans have been made to move the organ to the gymnasium for us at the Mass during commencement exercises in June.
Cincinnatians To Dine
Plans were completed by the Cincinnati Club at a recent meeting for a banquet to be held on Dec. 8.
It was also announced by Joseph Nienaber, president of the club, that the Alumni Club of the city had assumed full charge of the annual Christmas dance. This dance is to be held on Dec. 19.
into the quadrangle. A short landing half way to the top is another improvement. Each step is made of Massachusetts granite supported by a cement base, with a wider tread than the older steps.
The students’ passage under the porch has been improved with new brick supports at each end. There will be even a larger space for the display of various bulletins.
Brass railings will be installed on either side of the steps. The plan to have a rail in the center was discarded although in case of need, it could be erected. The new steps will continue to carry on the traditions of Notre Dame and no doubt the usual lake party will be in store for any undergraduate student who dares to make his way up them. •
GLEE CLUB IS SIGNED FOR NATIONAL BROADCAST
By Frank Reilly
. For its first concert of the year, the University Glee Club will be heard, Wednesday night, December 9, from Chicago over Station WMAQ, and affiliated stations of the National Broadcasting Comapny. The Glee Club will sing as part of the Bowman Radio program from 9:30 until 10:00. The selections heard on the
President Tom Cassidy His Men on the Air Lanes.
program are to be: one religious number, probably an “Ave Maria,” one secular number, and the school songs. The choice of numbers will not be made until the rehearsal immediately preceding the program.
Prof. Joseph -Casasanta, director of the Glee Club, has chosen sixty men to accompany the musical organization on its first trip.
Last Friday night the Glee Club sang the “Victory March,” “On Down the Line,” the “Hike Song,” and “When Irish Backs Go Marching By” at the smoker given in honor of the Old Timers at the Columbia Athletic Club. -	.
Last year the Glee Club was heard on several nation-wide hook-ups. The trip planned for the Easter vacation was washed out by the Eastern floods which nullified concert appearances which had been scheduled to end in New York City.
The officers of this year’s Glee Club are Thomas Cassidy, of King’s Park, president; Frank Barbush, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, vice-president; John McNeill, Ridgewood, New Jersey, business manager; and Emil Peter, Louisville, - Kentucky, assistant manager.
As are most of the other musical organizations, this year’s Glee Club is one of the largest and-best Notre Dame has had in many years.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
"Dome" Diligently Duns Demon Detectives
•
Once more the Dome renews its offer to all students to send in any snapshots they wish to see published. The staff this year is endeavoring to make this Dome as universal and as interesting as possible through the generous cooperation of students.
‘■'The student trip, campus sketches and student life are only a few of the many opportunities offered to the amateur campus photographer,” Editor Radigan pointed out this week. “So bait your snare, load your camera, hunt your prey aloft and below but, sooner or later, cost what it may, get your picture. Then send it in to John Cottingham, Snapshot Editor, 217 Dillon Hall, as soon as possible.”
The last of the Senior pictures were taken this week. All Juniors who have not returned their proofs are asked to do so immediately. The pictures of the class officers and the members of the S.A.C., the Patricians, the Bookmen and the Wranglers will be taken after the Christmas vacation.
Zuendel Is Chairman Of lowans' Formal -
Joseph C. Zuendel, a sophomore in the College of Commerce from Des Moines, Iowa, was this week appointed chairman of the Iowa club’s Christmas formal to be held in Des Moines during the holidays. This was announced by Jerry Davy, president of the club.
Plans for the dance were discussed at the Communion Breakfast served last Sunday morning in the Faculty dining hall. Committees were named to take care of details and to make final arrangements.
On the day of the Southern California game, Dec. 5, the lowans will hold a smoker at which they will make plans for the dance.
Islanders Plan
The Rhode Island club this week is making plans for a smoker, their last activity before the Christmas holidays to be held on Dec. 3. Further consideration will be given to details at the next meeting.
The club’s Christmas dance, in which the Rhode Island alumni will cooperate will be held in the T’lt-more hotel in .Providence with Russell Hunt -as - chairman.
A Communion Breakfast, postponed from Nov. 15, will be sponsored by the club this Sunday, Nov. 29, in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
'S’-about the campus
✓/	w.-
Presenting Frank Charles Barbush and his clarinet. Frank has been in the front rank of campus musicians ever since his matriculation in 1933. He was graduated from John Harris High school in Harrisburg, Pa., and before entering Notre Dame, played in orchestras for three years, traveling through most of the United States. When he was 16 he led his own orchestra, colorfully titled “The Floridians.” Despite this poor start,
he earned enough money to make down payments on tuition.
Has an uncontrollable liking for sartorial oddities, such as buckled shoes and odd-colored vests. Prays continually for another few inches, because his short stature does not make for a commanding appearance as a band leader. Although his musical forte is the clarinet, he is talented on the violin and saxophone.
Believes that he sings fast tunes best, but really excels in waltz crooning. Whenever he visits Harrisburg for a vacation, he is immediately engaged as orchestra leader in one of the finer hotels of his home town; rates this preference because of his versatility. Frank spends almost all his time in the music rooms of Washington Hall; if he has no class, he practices.
His band favorites are Goodman, Barnet, and Tommy Dorsey. Hates any bands that even resemble Lombardo or Duchin. His intimates say that he studies for class by listening to swing records; Joe Casasanta indulges this flair by permitting Frank to use his phonograph.
Chairman Lane Plans Met Club Dance
The Christmas dance of the Met club will be held on Dec. 28, according to Chairman George Lane. Chairman Lane indicated this week that the Hotel Pennsylvania, in New York City, is being considered as the place. This will not be definitely established until word of approval is sent by the Alumni club.
The music for the dance will be furnished by Francis Walters’ orchestra. Mr. Walters was graduated from Notre Dame in 1926.
The price of the dance will probably be four dollars a couple. It is hoped that the dance will show a sufficient profit to "wipe out the club’s outstanding debt of $100. Expenses are being kept down as much as possible in order that this may be attained.
There will be a meeting of the Campus organization of the Metropolitan club early next week when plans of the dance will be further discussed.
Select Elite Club As
Site For Dance
The Elite Club, one of Rochester’s foremost dance spots, will be the scene of the Rochester club’s annual Christmas formal to be held on Saturday evening, Dec. 26. Since it is a dual affair under the joint sponsorship of campus and alumni groups, joint committees will be announced soon. .	. .	-
Sam Borzilleri, president of the campus organization, announced this week that the co-chairman representing the campus group will be named from a list consisting of four senior members. However, until definite word is heard from the alumni group, no other plans will be made.
He is a happier man, now that he has completed all required English courses, but Philosophy still brings out the worst in him. The Glee Club has been fortunate in claiming him during his scholastic career, sings during his scholastic career; sings baritone. Frank makes his bow as a Scholastic scribe this week.
In a confiding moment he expressed a fervent hope that he will some day write arrangements for a prominent orchestra; he would rather arrange than play. At present he is the leader of the Notre Dame Collegians, and has played at all this year’s football dances; St. Mary’s also likes his work, and has engaged him for many affairs.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.	9
THE WEEK
Forgotten Szuitch
We’ve been waiting years for this. We knew that some sweet day one trolley car would forget to stop at the switch and would meet another car half way to the next switch. Now it’s happened. A car, operated by a novice, wheeled bravely down Notre Dame Avenue, toward the bright lights of S. B. The coin box was full; students were blissfully commenting on the advertising placards; the journey seemed headed for a quiet conclusion. When the trip was half completed, what should loom ahead but a second car. Both vehicles came to a halt; two vexed motormen alighted to talk things over. The town-bound car won the argument, and the students settled back in their seats to watch the strangers back down the hill to switch No. 2. But life isn’t that simple. A third car whipped up the hill, bound for school. At this embarrassing point, the three cars were pushed together, and tea was served.
* * *
Such a business. Notre Dame wins and normality vanishes. Small parties of 50 and under squeeze into single rooms of varsity men and the panic is on. The faculty besieges the student body and demands a holiday. Night watchmen lock themselves out of halls. Managers of local theatres crash the dining hall, stop the meal, and cheer madly for Warner Brothers. Trolley car conductors invade student rooms, tear down signs and break light bulbs. Our liittle world is topsy turvy. The sun never sets on Notre Dame spirit.
* * *
Hollozu Holiday
Here’s a school with the right spirit. Northwestern had scheduled a double celebration for Monday, Nov. 23, in anticipation of their winning the Big Ten crown and national championship. Students were to be exempted from classes and the goose was to hang high. All these plans took place B. I. (Before Irish). When their jubilee was upset, the students were told that they could have the free day anyhow. Men of Notre Dame attended classes Monday but we’ll trade a free day for a victory like that any time.
* * *
Weeping Wildcats
It seems that our observations on the week’s activities are limited to reverberations of the dethroning of the Evanstonians; that’s because we can’t think of anything more newsworthy. Having apologized, we weep with Waldorf. After the game we hurried back to our room to hear Lynn speak over WBBM. He was
By John A. Gillespie
scheduled for four-fifteen, but never a word did we hear. We looked at the program list; sure enough, there it was: 4:15, Lynn Waldorf. If a fellow can’t depend on a Hearst paper, there just isn’t any security anywhere. Come now, Lynn, what’s the story?
* £ *
Band Opens Up
A whole-hearted cheer for Joe Casasanta’s band and its performance at the battle. Shamrocked hats and spatted feet were magnificent. That new shamrock formation left us gasping. But, Joe, why no “Tiger Rag?” We’ll be hearing the bandsmen at the basketball games, and it is a pity that there isn’t any “Music Goes Round” to encourage community singing. As a substitute we suggest “Organ Grinder’s Swing,” played with muted trumpets and all eyes on the nearest exit.
* * *
To Alumni Hall
Go ahead and brag about your brilliantly-lighted corridors. Boast of the dome lights here and there; gloat about your illuminated entrances. But we of Walsh tell you that we gladly stumble down our front steps and bleed from every pore because we have a sacred tradition to preserve. Ours is an Old World atmosphere, dimly hinting at meditation in dark corners and philosophical mysteries. Our mailmen do not slap letters under doors with confidence; they peer through the gloom at numbers. When we go to supper, we do not skip gayly down the steps; we grope; stumble, and hope. We have no garish, modernistic lighting system; in fact we have practically no lighting system at all. We like the uncertainty that accompanies shadows. If we could see where we were going, we’d become unfeeling and complacent; there would be no surprises, no disappointments. We rest our case.
Marylanders Plan Yule Holiday Program
Tentative arrangements for the two social activities of the newly formed Maryland-District Club were discussed by the members at a meeting held recently in the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Plans were drawn up to have a special club dinner at one of the downtown hotels or restaurants within the next two weeks. The other social function to be held this semester is a Christmas dance, on December 28, at one of the Washington hotels.
Kansas-Oklahoma Club Honors Will Rogers
•
Members of the Oklahoma-Kansas club, were held in a taut and attentive silence during a talk commemorating Will Rogers delivered by the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., in Brownson “Rec” at the last club meeting.
Father Carey knew Will Rogers when Will was twirling ropes in New York, and on the several occasions w’hen he visited the campus, Father Carey was his guide and companion. With his friendship as background, Father Carey eulogized Will Rogers, emphasizing particularly Mr. Rogers’ influence on Notre Dame as well as his good opinion of the University.
On the Tuesday following the Rogers memorial celebration, members of the club attended a special Mass for the recently deceased mother of Robert Siegfried, a former member of the club.
Plans of the club for the Christmas holidays include a Communion breakfast in the Faculty dining hall shortly before the holidays, the chartering of a special train-car for the journey home, and a Christmas dance to be held in Salina, Kansas with Al Schwartz in charge.
'Rangers1 Name Officers From Ten States
“Rangers” has been chosen as the name for the newly organized Far West club. John Gallivan, senior from Salt Lake City, Utah, was elected executive, and Philippe Hostermann, senior from Seattle, Washington, assistant executive at the club’s last meeting.
Elections of the members of the executive council were also held with each of the 10 states in the club and the territory of Alaska choosing one representative. Members of the council are: Mahoney representing Arizona; Burns, New Mexico; Sisk, Col-- orado; Gallivan, Utah; Harbert, Idaho; Rice, Montana; Hostermann, Washington; and Mullen, Alaska. Nevada and Wyoming were not represented.
Detroiters Plan Dance
The Detroit Club has completed tentative plans for the Christmas holidays. The campus club and the alumni group at Detroit with Lincoln Wurzer in charge of arrangements are planning a dance to be held Webster Hall or downtown Intercollegiate Hall. No definite arrangements have been made ag yet.
The club is also arranging a Com- . munion breakfast for Dec. 8.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
CALENDAR
Friday, November 27
“Scholastic of the Air,” 4:00 p.m., campus radio station in the John F. Cushing hall of Engineering through station WSBT, South Bend; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; SCHOLASTIC staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, November 28
Movies, Washington hall, first movie for Freshman only, 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, November 29
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Rhode Island club Communion breakfast, Lay Faculty dining hall; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Officers meeting, Knights of Columbus, K. of C. chambers, Walsh hall.
Monday, November 30
Feast of St. Andrew the Apostle, marks the 94th anniversary of first Mass said by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., at Notre Dame; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S.A.C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Chesterton Society meeting, Laaw auditorium, 7:45 p.m.; John McCormack Concert, Palace theater, 8:00 p.m., sponsored by Theater Concert Guild of South Bend. Servers’ meeting, Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church.
Tuesday, December 1
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice 4:00 p.m.; Italian club meeting, Carroll Rec, 7:45 p.m.; Lecture, Arnold Limn, “The Catholic in the Modern World,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, December 2
Glee club practice, 12:30 pan.; Band practice, 4:00 pan.; Bookmen meeting, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 pan.;' Cracow club meeting, Law building, 7:45 pan.
Thursday, December 3
Glee club practice, 12:30 pan.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Lecture, Dr. Arthur Haas, “The Atom and the Universe,” Washington hall 8:00 pan.
Donald A. Smalley, instructor of English at Indiana University, thinks that the poetry of John Donne and Robert Browning presents the “effect of the alarm -clock and not of the harp’, or of “Wagner rather than Mozart.”
*
The new piano in the Union music room at Purdue University was chosen by the blindfold test. Seventeen musically inclined people sitting behind a screen voted on the different makes by “hear” and eliminated the less desirable instruments.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Educational Insurance by Instalments
A decided innovation in the way of financing a college education was recently made public by authorities of Bucknell University. This new plan contains not only the best features of insurance policies designed for a similar purpose, but it also has the added benefit of payment extension over a long span of years.
Under this arrangement as soon as a child is born its parents may begin to contribute directly to the school the money necessary to offset future educational expenses. The school will accept any amount over a dollar, and the interest earned in these instalments will be invested in reliable businesses. The net. earned interest will be credited to the amount annually.
Welcome Stranger
When Manhattan College rooters traveled to Holy Cross a few weeks ago to witness the football game between the two schools the eyes of the New York school’s adherents were attracted by such cordial and hospitable slogans on banners dangling from residence halls on the “Crusaders” campus as “Murder Manhattan,” “Maul the Jaspers,” etc. The prize one of the lot, though, was the banner with the caption reading “Ad infernos tecum.” (Evidently a case of “Abandon all hope ye who enter here.”)
Is American Education at Fault?
In the opinion of Dr. Walter Marvin of Rutgers University the answer is an emphatic affirmative. It is his contention that the “forgotten man” of college is the student “with intellectual capacities above the normal.” The democratic educational system of which Americans so fondly boast, says Dr. Marvin, not only fails to encourage the really brilliant student but wastes too much time and energy in attempting to improve “in each generation those of low scholastic aptitude and experimenting in the hope of inventing new methods by which we can help the student of lower mental ability.”
Speaking Briefly . . .
A pre-exam rest period to allow students to catch up on their studies or get some rest is being considered by Temple University authorities. If adopted the plan will go into effect for the three days immediately preceding final examinations in all courses... . . Only one hundred and thirty-four students attended the recent DePaul-Western State football game. . . . At Miami University the W.A.A. is in charge of the hot dog
AT WASHINGTON
By Marvin Cox
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Washington, D. C. — “WANTED: college trained men and women to accept places in the field of conservation.”
Such an ad might well make its appearance, if the facts ascertained by certain federal agencies are to be relied on. With the country becoming increasingly conscious of its natural resources, there are several ‘ fields of conservation in which there is a scarcity of trained young persons to take the places that are opening up.
The National Youth Administration has invaded the field of conservation in its effort to create employment for young men and women, and it has found a dearth of conservation courses in the curriculums of colleges and universities throughout the country.	.	.
Efforts are being made to interest educational institutions in courses on conservation and, if this is done, college graduates of the near future may find themselves equipped to enter a field that is, to say the least, not overcrowded.
A number of conservation demonstration projects are in the process of development by the NYA, and it is thought by officials of this agency that these exhibits will stimulate the interest of college men and women in what may grow to be a new profession.
* *
Friday, November 13, despite the superstition of bad luck, marked in Washington the birthday anniversary of a man who is old as reckoned in years, but who continues to be one of the most progressive forces of youth in America. Associate Justice Louis D. Brandeis, of the United States Supreme Court, was 80’ years old on that date, but he continues to be an inspiration for those recent, and not so recent, college men who come in contact with him or follow his writings.
Associate Justice Brandeis is the center of what is said to be the closest approach to an intellectual forum in the capitol, and fortunate is the young man who is allowed to take part in these discussions. Periodically, a group of young men meets with
(Continued on Page 20)
sandwich distribution. . . . Smiling faces are not allowed in the photograph of this year’s Penn State senior yearbook because school authorities have decided that beaming countenances are too undignified for such a publication. That’s a tough break for Pepsodent users.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
THE VOICE OF VICTOR
For your advantage and delight we present the recordings of the Victor Company. New hands have been signed, and the variety of records has been broadened to include the latest and best developments in popular music. No matter what your taste, Victor is qualified to meet and satisfy it. We have noticed that there are more phonographs than ever before on the campus; if we can help you in your selections, we are repaid.
George Hall, Victor artist, whose band with its exceptional singer, Dolly Dawn, is featured on Bluebird records, is writing a weekly release on band news. From it we send you word that saxophones are on the wane in dance bands; experts insist that microphones do not react favorably to the saxes, and the legitimate woodwinds are being used more frequently for solo work. George Hall says that the instrument will never become obsolete, but will be used as a rhythmic background.
Continuing with the Hotel Taft maestro, we read the good news that Isham Jones will resume dance business on Dec. 4, in the Hotel Lincoln, after an absence of two months. Horace Heidt is definitely planning an eastern invasion. Chicago is stamped as a sweet music town; Glen Gray is adapting his music to fit that preference. Mal Hallett, at New York’s Hotel Commodore, is playing a new role. He is an old hand at one-night stands, but seldom settles down.
Our last bit confides that the singing parts of the Three Debutantes, Ted Fiorito’s popular trio, are written into the score exactly the same as those for the instruments. Singing into megaphones in Chicago’s Hotel Morrison, the girls achieve unique ensemble effects.
Victor gives you:
Organ Grinder’s Swing; Peter Piper
—Benny Goodman.
Goodman’s clarinet chorus is cleverly weaved into the blowing of his great sax section to make “Organ Grinder” a standout. Two new men— trumpet and tenor sax — provide smart conceptions of ad-libbing that will lift the listeners. As in most of his fine arrangements, Benny’s choice for an ending is a fade out.
Helen Ward, the girl with the swingy voice, has turned in a vocal that is fully up to her standard. Following a Goodman version of jamming, his men are inspired to pick up
By Frank Barbush
Senior in the Music School, and leader of the Collegians, University dance band.
the remains of the last chorus and carry the torch. For your benefit the ending is full and heavy. Peter Piper has a genuine sock to it. (25442-A)
Through The Courtesy Of Love; Winter Dreams—Richard Himber.
This is a beautiful song, given a sweet arrangement in the typical Himber manner. Once again Stuart Allen proves his right to his high rank in the list of popular singers. In Himber’s band there is a great string section combined with reeds and brass that make up a first rate radio organization.
Winter Dreams may lead you to expect a sentimental waltz, but it is a sprightly tune, played with pep. Immediately following Stuart Allen’s exceptional vocal, the trumpet, trombone and clarinet solos swing out in pleasing freedom. (25443-A)
“I Almost Had Sumpthin’ . . . But It Turned Into ‘Yankee Doodle’.”
I’ve Got Something In My Eye— Amanda Randolph; Rainbow On The River—Charlie Barnet.
Amanda Randolph, a new addition to the Bluebird group, is a girl with a tremendous voice that rocks continually. The trombone, clarinet, and trumpet solos are truly enthusiastic, as only swing can be played.
Charlie Barnet, becoming more popular every day, is famous for his tenor sax tone, big as a mountain, which he shows off in this otherwise ordinary tune. Not satisfied with his excellent instrumental work, Charlie sings—and effectively, too. Saxophones are starred in the interlude to the last chorus. (B-6619-A)
Floatin’ Dozen To Cotton Tozvn— Wingy Mannone; Did You Mean It?—Charlie Barnet.
Wingy features his trumpet at liberty to introduce this rocking tune. Of course it has the usual Mannone vocal with clarinet in the background.
Barnet’s offering is notable for the leader’s eight-measure swing solo, zj (Continued on Page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY._________________________Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER.................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_______________________________The IVee^
Anthony F. O'Boyle_________________________College Parade
John Hurley________________________________—Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan_______________________“Scholastic of the Air"
Joseph Rotondo_________________________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra______________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams______________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven_______________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley-------------------------------Robert McClain
Graham Starr
Vincent Hartnett!
Gregory Byrnes f____________________________Literary Editors
Harold Williams
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe__________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride______________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_________________________________John Cufford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly Arch Gott________________________________James A. Waldron
James Dunn
Francis Kroeger________’_____________________Art Editor William R. Dooley,.'26_______________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	November 27, 1936	No. 9
"FOR THESE. THY GIFTS . .
YESTERDAY Notre Dame paused with the rest of the world to give thanks. In the ninety-four years of her existence Notre Dame has achieved many blessings for which to be truly thankful. Notre Dame has grown in body and spirit, she has become a powerful influence in the daily lives of thousands. . . and yet she has lost little of the simple virtue in which the institution started.
On Monday Notre Dame will pause again to honor the anniversary of the first Mass said on this site by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., her founder.
In these two anniversaries lies much of the history and prestige of the University.
Father Stephen Badin must have celebrated thanksgiving day shortly before the arrival of Father Sorin. He must have thanked God with true missionary fervor for the graces of daily life. He had simple things for which to be thaankful. He was constantly aware of the daily danger of a desolate country, half savage Indians, a long and bleak winter. He must have been sincerely thankful for the success he had achieved in his lonely mission.
Today’s rushing crowds feel it must have been easy to be thankful when daily food presented a real problem, when one could constantly feel the presence of hardship. It is more difficult now to see our blessings.
Father Sorin must have been truly grateful when on the twenty-ninth of November he and his seven companions wandered half frozen into South Bend, a huddling group of houses sheltering eight hundred people.
With thoughts of sincere thanks Father Sorin must have celebrated his first Mass at Notre Dame. It is hard to realize the immensity of the task he had set before himself—but it is easy to realize the immense gratitude such a man must have felt for the simple blessings he had.
Just sixty years to the day after the Revolutionary forces of America had made peace with Britain on Nov. 30, 1782, Father Sorin was bringing the culture of ages into a bleak outpost of a wild country. Now, ninety-four years later, we should be truly grateful for his courageous work.
Imagine if you can the snowy wilds of 1842 with a solitary cabin black and lonely in the wilderness and then transform the image into its present setting. Thanksgiving Day and Nov. 30 hold the key to Notre Dame’s continued growth and dignity.
FINAL CURTAIN ...
SENIORS saw their last football game as students Saturday. Apparently the squad decided to put on something of a farewell show for the assemblage when they turned in as neat a gridiron performance as this or any other stadium as ever seen. It will be easy and pleasant to recall the last tilt we saw on our home field—in fact it will be next to impossible to ever forget it when we think of football.
For the seniors of the squad the performance must have been doubly enjoyable. It is always an accomplishment to leave the audience thundering for more when the final curtain is rung down. There is still the season’s finale to be played on the Coast—but for us, as students, at Notre Dame, the season, for some of us the last, for some the first, has wound up brilliantly.
V
MARKETING 167...
STATISTICAL analysis has developed into an exact science that can accurately compute for you the number of cigars necessary to reach from Kankakee to Kalamazoo; but one bet has been overlooked. It should be a legitimate field of research for some enterprising student to figure out how many of the 55,000 people who were here Saturday were peddlers and vendors of one ilk or another. The ratio of peddlers to victims would be interesting.
It is regrettable that so many legitimate sales-people, and so many legitimate charitable drives are impeded by a constant flood of tin-horn hawkers who fling a cordon around the stadium, the cafeteria, swarm the parking lots and make nuisances of themselves in general.
■ A person who purchased even half of the many gee-gaws offered for sale would have looked like a Community Christmas tree. Without venturing far off the course one could have purchased, and indeed was implored to purchase, tin footballs, pennants, chrysanthemums, sham-.rocks, purple and gold ribbons, pins of various hues, miniature footballs, in fact everything but a gas meter.
Strangely, few of the many vendors seemed part of the usual efficient corps of sales-people; like the snows, they seem to have drifted in sensing a large and enthusiastic crowd.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
13
A University Is Born
By George Haithcock
Ninety-four years ago, November 30, 1842 — Feast of St. Andrew the Apostle — the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame, celebrated his first Mass at Notre Dame in a little log chapel on the snow-covered banks of St. Mary’s Lake.
This primitive log church had been built by the Rev. Stephen T. Badin,
Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C.
Saw Vision of a University.
a missionary to the Pottawatomi Indians in the year 1830, and was being used.to serve Catholic trappers and farmers when Father Sorin came here in 1842.
In 1906 the present log chapel, a replica of the original, standing between the Mission House and Morrissey Hall, was built. Hidden behind a score of modern structures the Log Chapel is a campus shrine still in daily use to which hundreds of Notre Dame alumni return annually.
Not only is the Log Chapel an object of pilgrimage to' the thousands of visitors who come to the the Notre Dame campus annually, but it is also a historical landmark.
The story of Father Sorin’s journey to the scene of his first Mass at Notre Dame is truly one of the many hardships and trials. Possessing courage and faith, Father Sorin, accompanied by six Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, scorned dangers and obstacles before he finally reached the desolate banks of St. Mary’s Lake where his labors were to give first form to a great center of Catholic Education — the University of Notre Dame.
From the outset of his ordination
as a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross Father Sorin visioned the large mission fields of Indiana. His fervor was kindled when Bishop Hail-andiere of Vincennes, Indiana, appealed to Abbe Moreau at the original mother-house of the Congregation at Le Mans, France, for missionaries. He at once offered himself for work.
On August 8, 1841 a zealous band of missionaries, including Father Sorin and six Brothers, sailed for America. They anived in New York a little more than a month later on the 13th of September.
In a few days they started for Vincennes where the Bishop stationed them at St. Peter’s, one of the oldest missions of the diocese. After about a year’s stay here Father Sorin began making plans for the building of a college to carry out the great work he had in view.
Bishop Hailandiere at first frowned on the idea. There was already one Catholic College in Vincennes, and he feared that another could not be supported. But at the urgings of Father Sorin he consented to give over to the Community the section of land he held on the St. Joseph River on condition that they found a school within two years."
Father Sorin at once took up the suggestion and on November 16, 1842 with seven Brothers he departed to take possession of the newly selected home. It was one of the severest winters in the history of the United States. Snow 15 inches deep was reported as far South as Georgia.
For ten days, through uncleared and interminable forests, the brave men fought the bitter weather. They struggled on: some were on horseback; some were with the ox team which hauled their modest store of supplies.
Met at the outskirts of South Bend, then a little town of scarcely 800 people, the little band was guided through the woods to the shores of St. Mary’s Lake by Alexis Coquillard, the son of the founder of South Bend.
The missionaries found the small mission house not large enough to accommodate them, so they went back to South Bend for lodging. On the 29th of November they returned to
Notre Dame to formulate their plans for the work to be undertaken.
The next day, November 30th, in the little chapel where the Indian missionaries had so often celebrated Mass, Father Sorin offered his first Holy Sacrifice at Notre Dame.
With but the small capital of $400, their own zealous efforts, and the help that might be given by neighbors, the young community made plans for their college, church, and novitiate, all of which Father Sorin deemed necessary even for the beginning.
The builder of the original log chapel, Rev. Stephen T. Badin, who purchased the land on which Notre Dame now stands from the Indians, had the distinction of being the first priest ordained in the United States. The ordination ceremony was performed by Bishop John Carroll at Baltimore, November’ 25, 1793.
Father Badin then took up his newly founded mission in Kentucky.
Rev. Stephen T. Badin Buried in the Log Chapel.
There he labored for fifty-six years and was celebrated as the “Apostle of Kentucky.”
During these years Father Badin was invited by the Rev. Gabriel Richard, Vicar-General of the Bishop of Cincinnati, to come and look after the abandoned Christians of the St. Joseph River. Father Badin extended his missions over Northern Indiana and Southern Michigan. He purchased the land about Ste. Marie des Lacs and gave it to the Most Rev. Simon Brute, Bishop of Vincennes, through whom it was dedicated to Catholic Education.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME DEFEATS NORTHWESTERN 26-6 IN IRISH BEST PLAYED GAME
SO THEY SAY
By Al Bride
An ever to be remembered’ senior finale displayed itself before 55,000 spectators as a perfectly coordinated Notre Dame football team blocked, tackled, and ran its way over the national championship hopes of the Northwestern Wildcats in a stunning
Larry Danbom
Wildcats Stopped to Consider.
. 26-6 victory. Seniors, watching their last game as students, saw a truly fighting Irish machine, paced for the most part by seniors, hand the title holders of the Big Ten their first setback.
An alert Fighting Irish aggregation took command of the game soon after the opening whistle sounded and held the upper hand throughout the contest. Playing the brand of ball that Irish supporters have been looking for all season, the Laydenmen not only capitalized on the breaks of the game, but made their own breaks. The Lrish line smothered North’ western plays before they could get started, while on the offense the front wall opened holes for the fast stepping Wilke and McCormick to scamper through. Danbom’s blocking and defensive work was one of the outstanding features of the game as was the brilliant generalship displayed by Andy Puplis.
The Irish scored in every quarter and were a constant threat every time they had possession of the ball. Puplis’ choice of plays was a masterpiece of quarterbacking. Although certain plays stand out as highlights
of the afternoon, no single player can be named as the greatest contributor to the victory. It was a teamworking as a unit which blasted everything that stood in its path. From end to end the line, with Art Cronin performing yeoman’s duty for over three quarters, outcharged the Wildcat’s front wall. Danbom again was a bulwark in backing up the line. He cleared the path for the ball carriers and made repeated gains through the line. Wilke and McCormick were dangerous every time they handled the ball and were good for several long gains. Puplis not only ran the team like a Carideo, but was an important factoi- in breaking up desperate Northwestern passes.
Only once were the Wildcats able to get their famed running attack working, that for a 77 yard drive to a touchdown in the final quarter. Jefferson and Geyer teamed to do most of the Western Conference champs’ ground gaining while Vanzo lived up to his reputation as a hard man to get away from.
The Irish scored early in the first quarter after recovering Jefferson’s fumble near midfield. McCormick tore around end to put the ball in scoring territory. Wilke then started to the right, cut sharply over tackle, reversed his field and dashed 30 yards for a touchdown. Only one Northwestern man had a chance to stop (Continued on Page 23)
Captain John Lautar
The Smile Was Absent Saturday.
“Notre Dame’s followers among the 56,000 who crammed Notre Dame’s stadium to the limit for the first time in history here this afternoon were wild with glorious glee as Elmer Layden’s fighting Irish team flashed to life and completely routed Northwestern’s bumed-out Big Ten champions, 26 to 6, in the big football game of the day.”—Ralph Cannon in The Chicago Daily News.
“Some 55,000 persons, pop-eyed at what they had witnessed for upwards of two hours, left the Notre Dame Stadium this afternoon, wondering, perhaps, which was now the No. 1 football team of the nation.
“But 55,000 knew that it was no longer Northwestern, proud holders of the Western Conference Championship and undefeated until the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame fairly blasted the Wildcats apart today, winning by the astounding score of 26 to 6.”—Warren Brown in the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
“The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame brought ’em back alive today.
“They tamed, beat, and caged the mighty Wildcats of Northwestern by the astonishing score of 26 to 6, ending a college football prowl that had not been halted through rain and sunshine for seven straight games, a raid that found them even feasting on the national championship dream of mighty Minnesota.” — Associated Press Dispatch in the New York Times.
“ ‘Cheer, Cheer, for Old Notre Dame,’ runs the Victory March. Notre Dame gave occasion today for its strains to burst forth once again before 55,000 spectators. Famed for reaching the greatest heights under stress, the Fighting Irish rose to the brightest traditions of the Rockne era not only by defeating but routing Northwestern’s favored Wildcats, previously unbeaten this season. The score was 26 to 6.”—Harvey Woodruff in the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
“That rosy vision of a national championship for Northwestern—Big Ten title winners—vanished this afternoon before an inspired Notre Dame team that took advantage of (Continued on Page 23).
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
15
WILDCAT-IRISH GAME FURNISHES COLOR
TO BIG CROWD
•
By Arch Gott
Both a historical battle and a hysterical crowd were the features of the game last Saturday which saw the taming of the mighty Wildcats. Northwestern’s team wearily and sorrowfully trudged into the same dressing room which they had so happily entered after last year’s game. A mere two hours meant the smashing of a national championship myth for the Northwest eras and it was a bitter pill for them to swallow.
—o—
The Notre Dame band under Joe Casasanta’s direction did themselves right proud by putting on the best musical show of the year. The highlight was the clever formation of the shamrock which was further enhanced by the white spats and the fancy stepping of Lou Alaman.
—o—
The huge crowd of 55,000-odd customers constituted the most divided group that has been here this season. Northwestern rooters were here in large numbers trying to offer inspiration to their team. Their feminine cheerleader, Kay Stewart, provided plenty of tricky tumbling as her contribution to the festivities.
—0—
Spectators were marveling at the giant size of the Northwestern left tackle, Gibson, who weighs a substantial 225 pounds. But were they surprised when he was taken out of the game and replaced by Wray, a lad tipping the scales at 238 pounds. Fuller at center position for the Wildcats also loomed over most of the boys with his 6'3" of booming brawn.
—o—
Rumor has it that two men stood in line for fifteen minutes in their attempts to buy a couple of tickets to the game, and after they finally reached the end of the line they discovered that they had been standing in a Badin Hall laundry lineup. Another fellow left his ticket in a friend’s room and was unable to get in the room. At last in a moment of sheer desperation, he pulled out a Washington game ticket stub and successfully gained permission to a fiftyyard line seat by flashing it to about five ushers.
—o—
Among those present were a group of the oldtime monogram men of (Continued on Page 21)
24 GAMES ON IRISH BASKETBALL SCHEDULE; SEASON STARTS WITH KALAMAZOO KEOGANMEN PRACTICE DAILY
By Charles Callahan
Eight more days and the basketball season will be under way. The first game is scheduled for November 5th, with Kalamazoo in the local fieldhouse. Consequently, Coach Keogan has his hoop hopefuls going through strenuous scrimmages each afternoon. With five lettermen gone — Co-captains Johnny Ford and Marty Peters, plus George Ireland, Frank Wade and Johnny Hopkins — and a sixth monogram-wearer out until at least until aftei’ Christmas, the situation, quoting Coach Keogan, “looks a little doubtful.”
Keogan could noe be inveigled into stating whom he thought would make up the first outfit. He simply stated: “Nothing is definite as yet, and the men are out there now fighting for positions.” It is quite possible that
Coacft Dora is Talks About Bad Luck
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
“The element of luck is a bigger factor in the success or failure of a football coach than in any other occupation I can think of. A coach works a whole year to build up his team for a ‘crucial’ game. He develops a strong player for every position and plenty of reserves, if he has the material. And then zowie! Fate jumps up and hits him in the neck. A fumble, a bad bounce of a football, a bad piece of judgment by the quarterback, a momentary malfeasance by a player who has been carefully coached to do the right thing and the game is lost and with it sometimes the coach’s reputation.” Coach Gus Dorais of the University of Detroit believes the breaks can make the scales go either way.
Joe Kuharich “Through a Wall of Human Flesh.”
Coach Keogan will make the opening game with Kalamazoo a try-out affair, and thereby make no definite decision on a permanent starting five until that contest is history. At any rate, no matter who makes the team, somebody will have to step down when Paul Nowak returns.
Nowak, who was an All-American at center last season as a sophomore, was operated on for appendiietis soon after the opening of the school this year. Though he started doing con-
Johnny Moir The Scotch Help the Irish.
ditioning exercises last Monday, Nowak is not expected to be of much use until after Christmas.
Coach Keogan is in somewhat of a quandary regarding the center situation, and there is but little wonder. First, there was Nowak’s operation, then “Chris” Moritz—a reserve pivot man last year—left school, and finally John De Mots—a senior with two years of squad experience—injured his trick knee. As alternative, Keogan has shifted Johnny Moir, high-scoring sophomore forward of last year, to center. Johnny O’Connor and “Link” Shields are also receiving considerable attention at this berth.
Captain Ray Meyer heads the list of forward candidates. Honored with the coveted distinction of being named captain in his junior year, Ray, who was hampered somewhat by injuries last winter, should come into his own as a point-getter this season. “Mike” Crowe and Jim Carson, junior holdovers from a year ago, plus sophomores Ducharme, Muens and Knobel are other leading forward candidates. O’Connor, previously referred to as a center, and “Red” Allen, a reserve guard on last sea-
(Continued on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
INTRODUCING
It has been a practice of Elmer Layden, during football games, to make rather wholesale substitutions at the end of each quarter. All through this season he has substituted entire teams at the quarters, so it was somewhat of a surprise to the spectators last Saturday when, at the end of the first quarter he substituted only seven men, six on the line and one in the backfield. Tins fact wasn’t overlooked by the fans, but the fact that one man was left in the line, and kept being left in, was generally overlooked. Very few people noticed that Art Cronin, who, now rightfully owns the title of “Iron Man,” played practically the whole game with the exception of but four- minutes at his tackle position.
Northwestern Foe
Fifty-six minutes of service in any football game is tough. But when the opponents happen to be the Northwestern team with a line of the highest caliber, any man who stays in there goes through plenty of punishment. Elmer Layden didn’t leave Art Cronin without a reason. He saw that Art was playing the greatest game of his life, and he thought it best to leave well enough alone. Art was in on every play and was poison to those Wildcat backs. We imagine they were rather glad to see him finally leave the game. Every minute of the afternoon’s excitement number “74” was seen breaking through the line, upsetting interference and doing everything a Notre Dame tackle should.
Notre Dame, and Cronin supporters can now say that Art has come into his own, and like Bob Wilke. Larry Danbom, John Lautar and others, is winding up his career at Notre Dame in a way that every football player hopes to finish his own career.
Product of Detroit
Bom and reared in the Motor City of Detroit, Art attended the University of Detroit High School. His athletic days at Detroit were marked by an All-City and an AllState football nomination in 1931 by virtue of his stellar playing at the tackle position of his football team. The hockey and track seasons also found him out chasing the puck around or performing on the cinder path.
Coming to Notre Dame, Art decided to concentrate solely on football following the footsteps of Ray Brancheau who also hailed from Detroit. Like other stars on this year’s team he had to wait his turn, while such men as John Michuta were play
ing the game. This year, however, he came into his own, and last Saturday saw the climax of his varsity career.
Summertimes Art keeps in condition by heaving fruit and vegetable crates foi' the D & C Navigation Company on the Great Lakes.
Art Cronin
Last summer he altered his routine and tried to sell coal during those blistering July and August days. Just what success he attained in trying to convince the citizens of Detroit of the benefit of heat in those sweltering summer months is hard to ascertain.
Christmas vacations are quite different from his summer ones. Buffalo sees quite a bit of him during this time, and it’s not very hard to guess the reason. Yes, the usual thing.
Art plans to study Law and remain for a few more years at Notre Dame just to see how the boys out on- the gridiron will get along without him.
Shillelagh Returned
Northwestern not only lost a mythical national championship, here last Saturday in their defeat by the Irish, but they also gave up possession of the-Shillelagh — symbolic trophy of the Wildcat-Irish battles. Tug Wilson, director of athletics at the Evanston institution, brought the Shillelagh down with him in anticipation of again taking it back to the Purple campus. Bob Wilke, Bunny McCormick, Larry Danbom among others succeeded in making him change his mind so that when Mr. Wilson left for Evanston he was without the shillelagh. He had presented it to Elmer Layden after the game. The trophy had been in the Wildcat’s possession only one year since it was presented to the University by Mr. Cosgrove, former president of the Irish Free State.
IRISH RESERVE TEAM HAS HARD SEASON AS UNDERSTUDY
- •
By Fred Digby
Though the Notre Dame “B” squad won but three of the four games it played, this season was nevertheless a successful one for a number of players were uncovered on the squad who are of varsity caliber. Johnny McMahon, Joe Nai;done, Bob Shorsh and Paul Morrison are the best prospects of the season and will very likely move up to the varsity squad next year. Many other prospects were developed during the year’s course but will remain on the squad for added experience.
The Reserves lost their first tilt with Niagara, 21 to 0. The Niagara offense was too strong for the reserves and the Irish, slowed up considerably by the muddy field, saw three of their scoring threats end with Niagara’s goal still uncrossed.
The Illinois “B” team barely nosed out the Irish, 6 to 0, in the second game. The Illinois team was completely outplayed in the first half but came back in the second and managed to put over the only tally of the game. In this game Paul Morrison, one of the most promising backs on the “B” squad, broke his leg and was lost for the rest of the season.
The ‘B” team ran over the Purdue Boilermakers in their next game, 26 to 0. The Irish used five teams and won with ease. It was in this game that Johnny McMahon showed himself to be a varsity prospect with his brilliant passing, running and blocking. He was immediately moved up to the varsity and played in the Army game.
The Illinois team returned for a second time and again took the measure of the Irish, 16 to 6. The game was much the same as the first with the Irish having all the best’of the play in the first half but falling before their opponent’s open type of play in the second.
A resume of the season follows:
0	Niagara	21
0	Illinois	6
26	Purdue	0
6	Illinois	.16
32		43
When Louisiana State University’s new mascot, “Mike,” a $750 tiger cub, came to town, he was met at the station by the 200 piece baand. The parade through the campus included scores of cars and even a garbage wagon to add color to the procession.
David Macklin, who plays with Borah Minnevitch’s Harmonica Rascals when they are in New York, is organizing a harmonica band at New York University Heights College.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
17
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Mike Crowe
•
BERNIE BIERMAN, Minnesota coach, says that OZZIE SIMMONS is one of the best defensive backs he has seen in a long time. This is altogether different than Ossie Solem’s opinion of the colored star’s defensive ability.
JOHN WOODRUFF of Pittsburgh, Olympic 800 meter champion, made his first varsity start in the Intercollegiate A.A.A.A. cross-country championship run and finished seventieth.
Brooklyn’s new manager, BURLEIGH GRIMES, promises to put a fighting ball club on the field for next season. Grimes managed the Louisville Colonels last summer and he was ordered out of 15 or 16 games by the umps.
Northwestern’s 1936 line has been rated by BERT INGWERSEN as the best line he has ever coached.
The University of San Francisco’s 90 piece band presents something new in uniforms. They wear flowing gold silk blouses, black silk trousers and Spanish sombreros.
In Marquette’s first seven games, CAPT. RAY BUIVID completed 50 passes out of 97 attempts. Thirtyeight tosses were incomplete, nine intercepted. Six hundred and seventy-nine yards and ten touchdowns resulted from the 50 completed aerials.
Passers for the University of Detroit are always facing danger. First it was ROGER HAYES who suffered a broken shoulder in the Villanova game. JIM PIPER assumed the passing role in the Manhattan game and his injury was a broken wrist. In the same game ED PALUMBO replaced Poper and he sustained a knee injury. AL OLIVELO threw Detroit’s passes in the Bucknell game, and he turned up the following Monday with an injury. Now BOB FILIATRAULT is the passer. Insurance men are steering clear of Filiatrault.
Do you know of any college player who has scored at least 110 touchdowns in four years? WILLIE HESTON did for Michigan in the period from 1901 to 1905.
Berkley’s California High school team has set some kind of a record for consecutive wins. They have won 118 successive games.
Only one school holds an edge over BOB ZUPPKE in games played against his team. Michigan is the university and the figures .are nine wins for Michigan and eight wins for Illinois.
Playing a 12 game schedule, Texas Christian university will have traveled a total of 4,300 mile when their season is completed.
TRIUMPHANT FOOTBALL TEAM PRACTICES IN PREPARATION FOR LAST GAME
AFTER VICTORY OVER PURPLE
By John F. Clifford
Coach Elmer Layden and his football entourage “go West” on Monday to take on the Trojans of Southern California after putting in a week of intensive drilling in the offensive intricacies of the Howard Jones system. The teams that humbled the Northwestern Wildcats received the greatly deserved respite last Monday, but resumed practice
-------—---------------------- on Tuesday.
Bob Wilke
The Flying Dutchman.
TRACK MEN PREPARE TO START PRACTICE
Coach John Nicholsin will officially open varsity track practice, Tuesday, when he issues the initial call for candidates on the 1937 squad. Headed by Captain Bucky Jordan, an ace sprint man for the past three seasons, the list of thinlies stands out as one of the finest track groups in the middle West this year.
Although Nicholson has been hard pressed during the last year for good material because of the loss through graduation and ineligibility of several of his best performers, this year brings together a combination of some of the best material in all events of the sport. Nicholson is known as a developer of talent, taking raw material from high schools rather than finished runers, and making collegiate class men of them.
The recent showing of the Notre Dame- long distance men in Chicago show how well the members of this class compare with the talent of other mid-west schools. The sprinters on' the squad also show promise of being point-getters for the coming year.
The Freshmen teams, having been drilled in the complicated spinners double reverses, and heavy power plays of Southern Cal., showed the varsity eleven what to expect on the afternoon of November 5th in Los Angeles. Joe Boland has concentrated his linemen in following the ball, which in some plays is handled by all the offensive backfield. Southern Cal utilizes a very complex shift and it requires a sharp football eye to analyze the type of play to follow from it.
Guard Against Trojan Offense
Last year in the Notre Dame stadium the Trojons gained considerable yardage with their power plays, the quarterback doing much of the toting. With this in mind the Irish backfield will be especially alert in backing up the line.
Joe O’Neil has been getting off some beautiful boots on Cartier Field during the past week; the ends have been getting down under the punts fast and preventing the swivel-hipped team of Puplis, Rentz and O’Reilly from returning them any great distance. Vic Wojcihovski has been hampered with an ailing shoulder, but is expected to see action on the coast. The line came out of the Northwestern game comparatively unscathed, and it is expected that it will remain intact for the Southern Cal game.
A squad of 35, plus coaches and managers, will leave South Bend via the New York Central for Chicago on Monday. There they will board the Southern Pacific “Rock Island Special” and leave for the coast. Arriving at Tucson, Ariz. at 8:15 a.m. Wednesday the team will pratcice on the University of Arizona field for two hours in the morning, after attending Mass on the train. The Pioneer Hotel will be the Notre Dame headquarters in Tucson.
At Yuma, Arizona, where time changes to Pacific Standard, the team will run through a snappy exercise drill at 1 p.m. Buses will await their
(Continued on Page 23)
18	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
It might seem a little premature to be throwing orchids when the season isn’t over, but we feel in the mood. Besides what better time is there to do some wholesale praising than after Notre Dame has so thoroughly defeated the strongest bidder' for National Championship honors? So thanks to the whole team for a wonderful show in the last game we shall see as a student. (We’re not making the Southern Cal trip, — we have exhausted our traveling budget.) An orchid to Bob Wilke for the best job he has ever done and for that sensational quick kick. An orchid to Andy Puplis for the smartest quarterbacking we have seen in four years. An orchid to Larry Danbom for playing the way he always plays, —what more need we say?
V
An orchid to little Bunny McCormick for reminding us in a pleasant way of another Californian, Cotton Warburton. An orchid to Joe O’Neill for his recovering of the fumbled quick kick and for his presence of mind when he couldn’t get off that punt. An orchid to Len Skoglund for the perfect execution of the forward-lateral pass play. An orchid to the right side of the line for taking out Wildcats on Wilke’s run with disconcerted finality. An orchid to the whole line for stopping the biggest and toughest line they have met all season. We could go on and on, but we ran out of orchids.
V
If the team plays against Southern California the same way that they have played in the last two games, we have no fears whatever about the outcome of the battle with the Trojans. The way it looked from the sidelines, there wasn’t a,team that could approach Notre Dame last Saturday. We Jiave only one regret, that it was not Pittsburgh rather than Northwestern the Irish played. Even the Pounding Panthers would have had little chance against the inspired play of the Laydenmen.
V
Page fifteen of this issue carries a story that should interest every Notre Dame sport fan, — the basketball schedule for the coming season. With the start of the season just one week away it is not too early to start thinking about Notre Dame’s chances which look fairly good at this time. Coach Keogan continues his usual and wise procedure of opening the season with a couple of . “breathers” which will enable the new team to become coordinated before they hit such stiff competition as Northwestern and Illinois. The team this year will be made up mostly of the Juniors who look so completely outclassed by their more advanced teammates last year. The loss of Ford and Ireland will be keenly felt, but with Moir, Meyer, Wokovits and Nowak plus many excellent reserves, Coach Keogan need not lose too much sleep.
This is probably the worst year ever for the business of predicting, — so bad indeed that we predict that Dick Dunkel will shortly be selling apples on some street corner. This column fared not too badly in the general melee of last Saturday. We slipped up on the Purdue and Fordham upsets, but who wouldn’t? Brothei' Fromhart had the pleasure of calling the Notre Dame-Northwestern, and the Marquette-Duquesne games which were missed by most writers. Spinning our wheel of chance and hoping to high Heaven that the football world will be a little more orthodox this week we find:
Alabama Tech over Florida
Arizona over Wyoming
Stanford over Columbia
Tulane over Louisiana
Mississippi State over Mercer
Eice over Baylor
Texas Christian over Southern Methodist
Army over Navy
CROWDS COME FROM DISTANT CORNERS
TO SEE CONTEST
•
From far and wide they came last week to witness the traditional battle of the Wildcats and the Irishmen. Planes, automobiles, busses and trains all turned toward the home • of the Fighting Irish to see the potential National Champions, the Wildcats, and the sensational Irishers bow "out of the 1936 midwestern scene in what promised to be one of the greatest battles of the year.
The game is history now, but it is interesting to look at what took place off the gridiron and what that crowd of 56,000 people did to get to South Bend to see the game. How they were taken care of, and who took care of the rest of the country that couldn’t be present to see the downfall of the Cats.
Indiana Traffic Heavy
From Friday night preceding the game until just before the opening whistle blew, the roads to South Bend were crowded with automobiles. Police had worked out special plans to take care of the traffic expected, hotels anticipated a capacity business, and they got it. Railroad companies had twenty special trains to take care of the people who wished to see the game and every one of them was crowded. Airplanes, fourteen of them, carried seventy people into South Bend airport, a new record for airport activity at South Bend.
An estimated number of 7,500 cars filled up the parking spaces surrounding the stadium. They were from all parts of the country. A Montana license plate was seen as well as cars from New York and Louisiana. Looking from the top of the stadium about an hour before game time cars could be seen choking the roads leading to the campus. All these converged upon the two large parking lots on either side of the stadium.
Mass Production in Food
The University Dining Halls had their usual “football” problem in feeding the many people who came to the game. Including the students, 10,000 people were fed in the Dining Halls between 11 and 2 o’clock, a fair number to be handled by any dining hall.
Joe Petritz, keeper of the Press Box, had his problems as well. Two hundred gentlemen of the press were accommodated, as were eleven broadcasting units. Three radio chains carried the game. The National Broadcasting Company had Bill Slater carrying the game to points on the East coast; “Red” Barber took
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
19
care of the Mutual Broadcasting System with outlets in the East and in WGN of Chicago; Jim Britt of WSBT sent the word pictures of the game out over the Affiliated System of twenty-three stations. Individual stations such as WBBM, WJJD, WCFL, WTAM, WHO, and WOC had such stellar announcers at Pat Flanagan, Hal Totten, and Lynn Brandt giving accounts of the game to the listeners in Chicago, Cleveland, Des Moines, and Davenport.
There were, as usual, many people prominent in the public eye at the game. Amelia Earhart Putnam and her husband viewed the game from a box seat. Freeman and Gosden, “Amos and Andy” to the radio listeners were there. Industry was represented by Major Frederick McLaughlin of Chicago, Eugene Ford, of Detroit, and Vincent Bendix of South Bend. Mayor Kelly traveled from Chicago to see the Wildcats beaten.
It Wasn’t Always Thus
In such a setting as this, all the glamour of the modern football was present and sharply contrasted with the games played back in the days when football was a continual fight and not a game. An account in the 1901 Scholastic of the 1901 Northwestern game which ended in a 2-0 victory for the Wildcats tells us of the “carriages and buggies” that, actually, went on to the playing field of old Cartier from which their occupants viewed the game in luxury. Before the Northwestern game of 1901 the spectators didn’t enter Cartier Field with its old wooden grandstands until the band had preceded them. Every one would wait outside until the band would march in and then the fans would fall in behind the music makers in a rather premature victory march. There were no airplanes carrying people to the game, special trains were at a minimum, and a crowd of 20,000 people was considered stupendous. 20,000 people at a Northwestern-Notre Dame football game today would mean that some catastrophe had happened to keep the other 30,000 people away.
ANYTHING FOR ADVERTISING
A filler in the DePauw: Found—A girl’s pretty orinch sweater with bows and tassles. Left at GOP raly Oct. 29. Loser may claim at office of The DePauw. One of the many services to one of many readers.
A ROSE BY ANY OLD NAME
Ten undergraduate students working under Josephine E. Tilden, professor of botany at the University of Minnesota, have the trying task of finding names for 100,000 plants never previously classified.
TROUBLES TRY TEAM TRAINER'S TEMPER; TAPE, THREAD, TIMBER AND TOWELS TAKE TOP SPOT IN TRICKS
By John Cackiey
Eugene “Scrapiron” Young could easily be called the “guardian angel of Irish athletes”—he is the trainer to hundreds of sport participants on the campus, and not only helps to heal injuries but also to prevent them.
Each school year, from early fall until late spring, he is constantly working in a small but extremely well-equipped room in the fieldhouse,
Eugene “Scrap” Young He’s a Philosopher too.
for the welfare and benefit of Notre Dame’s athletes. His job requires not only arduous labor but, in addition, painstaking knowledge of the various injuries that confront the football men, basketball players, track aspirants, etc., during the season.
The Scrapper has that rare trait of versatility that is frequently not found among the human race. In a “nutshell,” he is a lawyer, former coach, trainer, and farmer.
Young was one of the greatest cross-country men to ever wear the Gold and Blue. Throughout his junior and senior years on the harrier squad, he was undefeated in dual competition. Running both the 3% and 5 mile events, Young consistently swept all opposition aside, and established an enviable reputation for the “long-winded” candidate to achieve. Scrap was also a member in good standing, of the varsity track aggregation, winning monograms for three consecutive years as the result of his fine performance in the mile and two mile events.
After receiving a LL.B, degree in 1927, Young left for Racine, Wisconsin, where he coached St. Catherine’s high school to an undefeated football
campaign in ’29, while advancing his proteges to a runner-up position in the state cage tourney. At the same time, besides his coaching duties, the Scrapper was practicing law, having successfully passed the bar examinations.
The late Knute Rockne (who incidentally was the donor of Young’s well-known “moniker”) in 1930, summoned Scrapiron back to his alma mater to assume responsibility for keeping the various teams in tip-top shape.
Scrap is “busier than a one-armed paper-hanger with the hives,” and that statement will prove itself if the doubter will merely drop in the emergency room where the trainer works from morning to night. He treats on the average, aboue fifty men each day, while in addition, to “strapping up” at least 200. Sprains and bruises are the most common injuries that he has to contend with, but nevertheless there are others that require attention also.
If all the tape used on pigskinners, tracksters, etc., was laid end to end, it would reach from South Bend to Chicago. Scrap unwinds 50 miles of white tape during th year, while the amount of gray tape would extend to 30 miles. Gauze alone would stretch some 211,20.0 feet—or perhaps a total of 40 miles would tell the story quicker.
Scrap runs a close race with the dining hall management when it comes to buying things in massed quantities. One hundred pounds of cotton is consumed for the season, while rubbing alcohol' will total 50 gallons. Antiseptic is estimated to be a mere 10 gallons, but camphorated oil will hit the peak at 30 gallons. 10,000 tongue depressors and 15,000 applicator sticks are also in (Continued on Page 21)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
"Lawyer" Appears
(Continued from Page 4)______ made county attorney in David City of that state. He was then made a member of the Nebraska supreme court commission in 1920. Shortly after this appointment Professor Cain came here and at present is associate professor of law in the Notre Dame College of Law.
A scientific discussion entitled “Jurisprudence and Labor,” by Mr. James Kearney is also in this edition. Mr. Kearney received his A.B. in 1931 from the University of Notre Dame. From here he went to the Loyola University School of Law in Chicago where the degree of J.D. was committed to him. In 1935, the degree of LL.M, was conferred upon him by the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. As a member of
No Respecter
TUBERCULOSA
IS NO RESPEOTE ROE PERSONS.
THE DREADED DISEASE TAKES PERSONALITIES FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE. IT KILLEDTHE GREAT CHRISTY MATHEWSON AND HUGHIE JENNINGS OF THE BASEBALL WORLD.
Rhodes
HE BUILT A GREAT AFRICAN EMPIRE BUT TUBERCULOSIS BEAT HIM
GREATEST WRITERS— AND ROBERT LOUIS
cToe Gans, called by many THE GREATEST OF ALL FIGHTERS DIED AFTER. HIS LAST FIGHT T.B. KILLED HIM.
= STEVENSON
Ping Lardner
New Stampj
.Many, moviestars HAVE DIED ,T* Groo^^ALLg
the Chicago Bar, he became a member of the Committee of Law of the American Philosophical association. He has been a part-time instructor at Loyola University School of Law in Chicago. He has written for the Lawyer before, having written an article, “War’s Possible Effect on Clients,” in last year’s volume.
Mr. Joseph Keller has started an article which will be continued for another edition entitled “Federal Control of Defamation of Radio.”
Mr. Keller received his A.B. from the University of Dayton in 1928, and his LL.B, from the same university in 1930. He was admitted to the Bar in 1930. While practicing in Ohio from 1930-1934. he was also professor of law at the University of Dayton. In 1934 he was given the post of administrative assistant to Commissioner Thad H. Brown, federal com
: IHA
munications commission. In 1935 the University of Georgetown conferred upon him the degree of J.D., and in the same year he was admitted to practice before the supreme court of the United States.
Notes on recent decisions and book reviews make up the greater part of the remainder of the book. These book reviews were written by A. Raymond Martin, Arthur C. Gregory and Professor William M. Cain. The notes were laso written by students in the Law School and the following is a list of the titles and the authors of these notes.
“Boycotts and Strikes,” by Robert J. Schmelzle.
“Forcible Entry and Detainer,” by James H. Levi.
“Liability of an Owner of an Automobile to a Passenger,” by Anthony W. Brick, Jr.
“Right of a Spouse under Workman’s Compensation Laws,” by W. J. Sheridan.
Recent Decision on “Amendments to Pleadings,” by William R. Bowes.
Recent Decision on “Special Damages for the Breach of a Contract,” by William L. Struck.
At Washington
(Continued from Page 10)
Justice Brandeis at his home to discuss various phases of world affairs. Thus, this 80-year-old jurist keeps his fingers on the pulse of youth and con-tiues to serve as a guiding star for some of the nation’s brightest young minds.
Each year Justice Brandeis selects a brilliant young law graduate to serve for a year as his secretary. And how profitable is this service at the feet of a master, is illustrated in the careers achieved by‘two of his former secretaries. Dean Acheson, at one time Assistant Secretary of the Treasury; and James M. Landis, present Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, have both served as his secretaries and each has made a spectacular success in the professions of law and finance.
Landis received his A.B. degree from Princeton in 1921 and his LL.B, from Harvard in 1924. Acheson graduated from Yale in 1915 with an A.B. degree and took his law degree from Hai-vard three years later.
Missouri Club Dinner Set For Dec. 2
The Missouri club is having a ban-. .quet next Wednesday, Dec. 2, at the Morningside hotel in South Bend. A definite time has not as yet been set for this event. Several speakers and a few members of the faculty will be present.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
21
Basketball Schedule
(Continued from Page 15) son’s quintet, are also being tried out at forward.
Tom Wukovits, one of the four re* turning lettermen,—Meyer, Moir and Nowak are the others—is again seeking a guard position. Another Tom, this one being Jordan, gives the Irish a second back-court man of experience. The aforementioned Allen, Conrad, Gaglione, Walker, and Attley complete the list.
From the football squad will come “Chuck” Sweeney, “Chuck” Borowski, Ed Sadowski, and Brown. They will not be able to report, however, until after the Kalamazoo game. This results from the coincidental fact that on the day football ends, basketball begins. The Southern California game will be over at about seven o’clock (C.S.T.) and at eight the referee’s whistle will open festivities between the Kalamazoo and Irish bas-keteers.
The schedule follows:
Dec. 5—Kalamazoo College at Notre Dame. Dec. 8.—St. Mary’s (Minn.) at Notre Dame. Dec. 12—Western (HI.) St. Teachers at N. D. Dec. 16—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Dec. 19—Illinois at Urbana.
Dec. 23—(Tentative).
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 2—Chicago at Chicago.
Jan. 5—Kentucky at Louisville.
Jan. 9—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 13—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Jan. 18—Syracuse at Notre Dame.
Jan. 23—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Jan. 25—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Jan. 30—(Tentative).
Feb. 3—Purdue at Notre Dame. Feb. 6—Illinois at Notre Dame. Feb. 13—N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden. Feb. 15—Canisius College at Buffalo.
Feb. 20—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 23—Marquett at Notre Dame.
Feb. 27—Butler at Indianapolis.
March 6—Marquette at Milwaukee.
March 8—Minnesota at Notre Dame.
March 12—Detroit U. at Detroit.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
"Scrap" Young
(Continued from Page 14) great demand from September to June.
Young went to school at National College in Chicago, where he absorbed the necessary technical training for such a position. His busiest time comes in the spring when football, baseball, tennis, track and golf are in full sway. After classes are dismissed in June, Scrap heads for Mississippi where he does quite a bit of farming and fishing—mostly the latter.
Not only is Scrap Young one of the finest trainers in the country, but he is in addition, a valuable asset to Notre Dame’s numerous athletic squads. It is no secret that Scrap is indirectly responsible for much of the Irish’s success in the sport world— his achievements speak for themselves.
Nor'wesfern Sidelights
(Continued from Page 15)
Notre Dame, Amelia Earhart Putnam and her husband, Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago, and a gathering of some former Notre Dame stars including Andy Pilney, John Michuta, Roger Kiley, Ed Krause and Joe Kurth.

tsOh, Rupert, it seems such a pity topart with our treasures?* Console yourself, my dear, we still have these 3 priceless cartons ofVWZKfX GRAND 1”
For brief intervals during the game the sun peeped out in all its splendor and gave a nice effect to the scene' of the closely packed crowd. A brisk breeze which held down the yardage of many of the punts, caused a flock of blankets to be dragged out to use.
—o—
For the unusual, there was a parade of the Wildcat band across the Notre Dame campus after the game on the way to a train. Instead of walking in a dejected manner they were stepping right along while playing “Go You Northwestern” in fine style.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
SPIRED EYES
Want to give your eyes a lift?Use Murine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by reading, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
eyes
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
MF
■iim^
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co.. Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and Domestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
'(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. Analytical Laboratories
tax in	(In collaboration with tobacco expert)
tax states	____
ATSQ OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
Southern Cal. Trip
. (Continued from Page 17)____ arrival as Los Angeles and whisk them to the Biltmore Hotel, headquarters for Notre Dame. Up at 8:00 for Mass and breakfast, and a few hours rest before the game, the party will leave for the Olympic Stadium and the game at 2:00, 4:00 o’clock Notre Dame time.
Sunday -will be spent in seeing the sights of Los Angeles. Leaving the city Sunday night, they will entrain for Las Vegas, Nevada. Upon arriving at Las Vegas, December 7, they will hear Mass and leave for a sightseeing tour of the great Boulder Dam at 6:30 a.m. The squad will then leave for Salt Lake City and a tentative dinner engagement with the Notre Dame Club of Utah.
They then leave Salt Lake City for Denver, Colorado, pulling in at 1:00 p.m. Spending the afternoon of December 8th in Denver, the party leaves for Chicago in the streamlined Union Pacific "City of Denver,” where they arrive in Chicago at 9:35 a.m. Wednesday, Dec. 9th. Having traveled about 4,500 miles through nine different states the Notre Dame football party will arrive in South Bend at 12:53 p.m. ready for afternoon classes.
Radio Programs
(Continued from Page 4)
nard Feeney, Francis Parks, Thomas Bossort.
The program for the week of Nov. 30th is as follows:
Monday, 7-7:15 — Chemistry Club Forum, a round table discussion of current interest in chemistry.
Tuesday, 7-7:15—Jack Collins, vocalist; 7:30-7:45—“Notre Dame Varieties; Band and Glee Club News and sports flashes, comedy skit.
Wednesday, 4:30-4:45—Interesting questions and answers; 7-7:15—Engineers’ club Forum, a round table discussion.
Thursday, 7-7:15—“Music of the Masters,” Wm. Mooney, concert pianist; 7:30-7:45 Lawyers Club Forum.
Friday, 4-4:15—“Scholastic of the Air,” digest of news from the columns of The Scholastic.
Freshmen at Southern Illinois Normal University are getting smarter with the years, according to the results of the intelligence tests given this fall. A slightly higher average is augmented by higher individual scores as compared with returns from similar tests last year and previously.
Old Timers Back
(Continued from Page 3)
Island, III.; Arthur Steiner, Monroe, Mich.; Anton Stephan, New York City, Joseph Sullivan, Chicago, Ill.; William Uffendell, Kewanee, Ill.
The “Old Timers” registered at the Alumni Office Friday afternoon and then made*a tour of the campus. A special dinner was tendered them in the evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall. They were special guests at the pep rally held in the gymnasium and the pre-game smoker of the St. Joseph Valley club of the Notre Dame Alumni association.
Saturday morning a Mass was celebrated by the Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., in the Sorin Hall chapel for the Monogram dead. Lunch was served then in the dining hall and they went in a body to the Northwestern - Notre Dame game where they were guests of the Athletic association. Following the game they were guests at a final dinner.
LOST
A Sophomore English Literature Book. Name William D. O’Toole, 55 Carroll Hall. Will finder please return at his earliest convenience?
“Go on, Penelope, ask him if he can spare a couple of those TWENTY GRANDS I”
MF
Pltn local tax in taxatateo
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co. , Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected theTurkish and DomesticTobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Siffud) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. Analytical Laboratories (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES	'
COLLEGIANA
A germ of communism in the matter of lockers has shown itself on the campus of Texas Christian University. Five freshmen sharing a one-foot wide locker have jammed 18 textbooks, eight notebooks, two coats, and seven pencils into the cubicle.
*
An “artificial sun” to aid in the study of sun rays, as the wind tunnel aids in the study of air currents, has been constructed in the town planning studio of the Columbia University school of architecture.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
. South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 27, 1936.
Northwestern Gome
(Continued from Page 14) him. Puplis converted to give the Irish a 7-0 lead.
In the second quartet' the Irish countered again on the same type of play. Again it was Milke who broke through a hole in the line, reversed his field and raced for a six pointer.
As the second half started it seemed as if the Waldorf coached unit was going to get under way, but they were soon stopped and forced to kick. After a few minutes of playing Wilke quick kicked over Heap’s head and O’Neil finally fell on the ball on the Wildcat’s three yard line. Wilke gained a yard before Donbom dived over for the third Irish touchdown. Puplis’ kick was blocked.
The second team then went in and carried on where the regulars left off. Interference placed the ball deep in the Northwestern territory. A bullet pass from McCarthy to Skoglund regained the ground lost on a penalty, and Miller then made a first down. After receiving a shovel pass Skoglund fought and twisted his way over the line for the final Notre Dame touchdown. Beinor’s kick was good.
The Wildcats finally thought it was time to show something in the way of power. A.'ll yard drive was climaxed when Geyer scored the Evanston representatives’ only tally.
The last few minutes found Layden sending in substitutes on a wholesale basis in an effort to give as many players as possible a chance to perform before the second capacity crowd of the season.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 17)
Ohio State’s freshman football squad totals 320 men.
ORV MATTHEWS, who was a sensation at the University of Southern California in his freshman year, is now attending the ’ University of Oklahoma.
FIELDING H. YOST, athletic director of Michigan, has missed but one Michigan-Minnesota game in 36 years. That one was on Oct. 17, when he was confined to his bed with neuritis.
BOBBY JONES is still able to hold his own in golfing competition. In a recent match in Atlanta where he and Lawson Little defeated Jimmy Thompson and Horton Smith, Jones turned in a card of 68.
IZZY COHEN, whoever he was, certainly cleaned up on his souvenir footballs and pennants at the Northwestern game.
So They Soy
(Continued from Page 14)
eveery opening to pile up a 26 to 6 victory over the hitherto unbeaten Wildcats.
“The size of the score just about indicates the difference between the two teams here this afternoon, for the Fighting Irish, led by an inspired young man named Bob Wilke, outplayed their highly touted opponents in every phase of the game.”—Leo Fischer in the Chicago Evening American.
“Northwestern today slipped from the nation’s gridiron pinnacle—a victim of an inspired Notre Dame team which smashed its way to a 26 to 6 triumph over the hitherto unbeaten Big Ten champions.
“Riding on a victory wave of seven straight contests, Northwestern plunged to disaster before a dynamic Notre Dame team which held a throng of 55,000 spellbound.”—United Press Dispatch in the Washington (D. C.) Examiner.
Voice Of Victor
(Continued from Page 11)
Charlie sings a fair vocal. The sax section has capitalized on this very catchy number, which is crowding the air lanes now. Recommended unreservedly. (B-6605)
You’re Giving Me A Song And A Dance; When A Lady Meets A Gentleman Down South — Benny Goodman.
A smooth introduction by the saxophones is cut into this notable recording. Saxes continue to please throughout in the most unusual legatto phrasing that has been attempted by any orchestra to date. Helen Ward’s exhibition is fine; if for no other reason, you should hear this record. As a melody, it belongs in the upper third of the season’s successes.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
The style in which Goodman’s men play this second tune makes it a favorite among his persistent listeners. Down South invites the brass section to work and it accepts with a verve. The ensemble chorus is full, with saxes playing legatto figures against melody by the brass.. Miss Ward repeats her swing attitude throughout the refrain. The number is not startling, but its treatment is gracious. (2534-A)
GO to the LIVESTOCK SHOW
The world’s “tops” in livestock and educated horseflesh — this International is the ‘‘Army Game’’ of all the big shows. Ride to the exposition via South Shore Line — the safe, fast, economical way.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

mencas
All-Star Eleven

60 yard dashes...passes and punts... touchdowns... performance! That’s how America picks’em. By wire and air-mail, fans rush to the football experts the tip.. ."Here's another surefire All-American.’’
And when you pick the all-star cigarette eleven, it’s performance again—it’s what a cigarette does that counts
Eleven letters that spell all the good things a cigarette can give.. .mildness ... a pleasing taste and aroma... a blend of mild ripe home-grown and Turkish tobaccos rolled in pure cigarette paper—the essentials of a good cigarette