Diamond Jubilee 1867 - 1942
Volume 76 Number 7 July 31, 1942
"Scholastic" promotion helps place seven Notre Dame men on All-Star football team; Promoter Lonergan and All-Star Lillis are happy.	.
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
War Goes to College
Our Washington correspondent informs us that a 10-minute movie depicting college students busy at war work will be released in September to universities, colleges and regular theaters throughout the country. Already shots have been taken at Tulane, Tuskegee Institute, Texas A. & M., Hampton Institute, University of Texas, Prairie View College, Purdue, Cornell, and Dartmouth.
What, no Notre Dame?
♦
The Amateur
It had been a long, hard evening for the girl. She had tried everything, but the boy friend was still silent and indifferent. Finally she let out an exasperated, “Oh hum.” Then he jumped up and said, “I can’t do that very good; but I can whistle.”
Tokyo Speaking
The Tokyo radio broadcast recently that “The heretofore so-called essential subjects of English and French will become elective” in the higher girls’ schools from now on.
Dear Mom
Our reporter on the East campus sent in the following which was transcribed from a B.-P. man’s letter home regarding the state of affairs on the front.
“I miss your loving care Mother, but every day life is getting less complicated. Even now I can put on my socks from either end.”
Case of the Caught Man
They sat alone in the moonlight,
And she soothed his troubled brow, “Dearest, I know my life’s been fast, But I’m on my last lap now.”
❖
A.B. Men Lose Ground
A study just completed by Investors Syndicate discloses, as evidence of changing educational trends, that the study of mathematics .led all new course enrollments during the last year in colleges and universities. Courses based upon mathematics, general sciences, physics, chemistry and engineering, ranked second in attracting new students.. A language course, Spanish, took third place in new course gains.
Next in order of preference, in new
2 ' - '	;' -
courses ranked secretarial, foreign trade, business administration and home economics.
The study, which was conducted at more than 550 leading educational institutions, revealed also that the liberal arts courses received the greatest setback in enrollment. Of more than 50 courses reported as showing shrinking importance, French scored the biggest loss of student followers.
❖
Book of the Month
With the printing of two million copies of the book, Reinhard Heydrich, the German, Nazi educators are again under way to give the little Jerries a look into the life of another “model for German youth.”
Swarthmore Sweats
The boys and girls of Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania, held a scavenger hunt recently that tested the best of wits and found some of them lacking an answer in an emergency. When it came to getting dead mice, silk hats, live, potent mosquitoes and hornet stings, the lads and lassies were willing and able. When it came to getting a marriage license, however, the brave contestants retreated. They were told they would have to take Wasserman tests.
❖
Case of the Co-Ed
My boy, beware of the baby stare, Because if it’s a bluff,
She knows too much — and if it’s not She doesn’t know enough.
Naval Crosses
. The Distinguished Flying Cross of the Navy has been awarded to two alumni of St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., both of whom graduated in 1937. Lt. Duncan Campbell was a member of the Navy Patrol Wing 10 that started in the Philippines with 42 planes, wrote a saga of valor across the Pacific, and disbanded in Australia with only two planes remaining.
Lt. John Van Buren, the other recipient of the Cross, took part in the successful air attack on Japanese bases in the Marshall and Gilbert Islands and, said the Navy, “through skillful handling of his plane and excellent marksmanship shot down one of the enemy fighters which attacked his formation.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr....Managing Editor
Daniel Downey.........Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds............Sports Editor Charles Kleibacker......Admin. Editor
Robert Lonergan...........Promotion
Ted Weber......................Photo	Editor
George Thompson..................Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis....Sta# photographer Gail Fitch, Jr.____________Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all man- -uscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS	Page
Lawyers Dance Tonight.................. 3
Senior Ball Date Announced ...______ 5
. .	Co-op Day Planned ..................   5
ADMINISTRATION
C.S.C. Changes Made...................  9
Inter-American Seminar	Here __________10
SPORTS
N.D. All-Stars Picked................ 15
Dillon Leads Tennis League.............16
FEATURES
College Parade ______„...r__________ 2
The Clubs _______i_______:...£______ 4
The . Week ........L..j.........._.'.__14
Introducing _________................._17
Pressbox Splinters .............___..._20
Cover Photo by Watters
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
•	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	■
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 76
JULY 31, 1942
No. 7
Lawyers Hold First Official Summer Dance
PHIL KEEN	.
The subpoenas have been sent out; the guests have arrived; the fellows have set out their very best victory suits — All is ready for what promises to be the most successful Law Ball ever held by the Notre Dame Law Club. Attire will be strictly optional as the lawyers and their dates attend the first official school dance ever conducted during a summer semester at Notre Dame The Erskine Country Club is the court of rhythm as that up-and-coming “Veet” Capello and his Cavaliers set everyone drifting and dreaming with their “put you in a trance” music.	.
Queen of the Ball will be Miss Pat Bannon, who will be escorted by Cecil “Cees” Jordan, general chairman of the ball.
Heading a long list of prominent guests will be Dean and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop, Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rollison, Mr. and Mrs. Elton E. Richter, and Judge Peak and Mrs. Peak will also be on hand.
Last fall Bob Richardson and his Modernaires headed a program that was popularly conceded as tops in a long line of Law Balls. The Trojans of Southern California presented the football thrills of the weekend as more than half a hundred jurists and guests congregated at the Erskine Country Club for an evening of dancing and swell entertainment. Miss Jane Cagney was queen of the ball. She was escorted by Lawyer John Ward of Barrington, Ill.
Tonight is certainly the night for about 50 future magistrates and their dates as they “Swing to the Torrid Trumpet of Bill Binet.” However, all of the fellows are not quite so lucky. Take Johnny Wuertz, for instance. He recently received notice that his date was “too busy with U.S.O. activity to attend the ball.” Fred Hoover also has his difficulties. He reports that all. the airliners out of Tucson, Ariz., are reserved, due to the present emergency.
Peter Alonzi of Chicago, III., is president of the Law Club and has a capable
ball chairman in Cecil Jordan of Winside, Nebr. Chairmen of the various committees include: decorations, Jim Dan-er; tickets, Merv Bagin; music, Thomas
Maher; patrons, Ted Frericks; publicity, Andy Cherney and Barnet Grafney; -house, Jack Barry; refreshments, Dick Fogarty; program, Jim McVay.
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
COUNTY OF RHYTHM ) In the Circus Court of Rhythm County STATE OF JOY J ss-	Hilarity Term
Notre Dame Law Club, Plaintiff, . vs.
“Boogie Woogie,” et al.
To................................, INVITOR, Greetings:
You are hereby commanded to notify, summon, inform, and' subpoena, as witness and invitee in the above action, Miss--------------------- ......................................................................., to the effect that it is the will of this Court that the aforesaid person shall from this day forward have and hold open, free, and unencumbered except as hereinbefore and hereinafter mentioned, the date of July the Thirty-first of the year 1942.
Wherefore the said witness and invitee is further ordered upon receipt of this summons to break any date before contracted, and hold herself subject, only as this instrument herein sets forth, stipulates, and provides.
Therefore, and without wit, guile, or delicious mischief, we hereby declare and publish that upon the aforementioned date, to-wit, the thirty-first day of July, the said plaintiff will institute his cause of action, to-wit, The Law Ball, a mean formal, all demurrers, motions for change of venue being waived nunc pro tunc, said venue being herewith established and ordained as the Country Club doing business under the style and firm name of the Erskine Club House, in the city of South Bend, in the county and state aforesaid.
The' plaintiff, for itself, its airs, executors, inmates, wardens, and keepers, does hereby covenant, grant, bargain, and warrant that if the said witness be ready eight hours post meridian, she will be present iri the said court in due time.	-	.
' .	;	Witness the clerk of said court and
the seal thereof, hereunto affixed this
.	Twenty-second day of July, 1942.
ABNER COREY, Clerk. -
RETURN	:
The witness and invitee, named in the above subpoena, admits service thereof upon her this..;--------------..—.day of.------------:-------,
1942, at.....................,	in the County of-----------------------
State of._____________:_____, and barring illness, injuries, or any other
such disabiity, I, Miss__________________i_________do solemnly swear
that I shall be only too glad to comply with the dictates of the court and will avail myself of this grand opportunity of mingling with the elect of the Law Club of the University of Notre Dame.
❖	^4e Gluhi> |
Catholic Clubs Elect
Regional Representatives
Representatives of four campus Catholic activity clubs were present at the second meeting of the newly organized Notre Dame Federation of Catholic Activities last Friday evening in the Main building. Elections to fill vacant offices and discussion of types of work to be taken up by the Federation occupied the meeting.
To fill the secretarial vacancy, the delegates elected Ted Weber to that position, left vacant by Gus Stuhldreher who did not return to school this summer. Jack Terry and George Bariscillo won the regional representative elections and will represent Notre Dame on the regional council.
At the next meeting the federation’s constitution will be discussed and ratified. It was written in the spring semester and has been read and amended by the club several times.
Academy of Science Hears Pieronek on Films
Thursday, July 23, the Academy of Science held their regular meeting in the Bjology building. It has been their practice in the past to have an "r^T instructor or post-graduate \ I student give a talk on some \ \ subject of interest to the \ I prospective scientists and \ \ ■ doctors.
\ — I \ .This week they were par-\	ticularly fortunate in hav-
ing Mr. V. R. Pieronek, graduate assistant in chemistry, trace for them the development of present day technicolor photography. His explanations of the physical relations of the different colors and their impressions on the super-sensitive technicolor film were vividly illustrated by 50 or more slides especially prepared by the Eastman Kodak Company. Members of the club and many guests reported the talk to be one of the most interesting yet given.
After Mr. Pieronek’s talk, the regular business meeting was called by President Harry McGee, who announced that a ten dollar prize was to be given for the best essay written by a member of the club . on a topic to be assigned by members of the faculty. Plans for a smoker were also brought up at this meeting, but nothing definite was decided upon.	,
—Mark DeMots
Radio Club Discusses Programs at Meeting
Members of the Radio Club sweltered in the heat of their curtained third floor Engineering building studios last Sunday and discussed the possibilities of a Idl banquet the early part of next y semester.
Because of the absence of many members, detailed discussions of individual programs and methods were shelved. Discussion centered about the quiz show and Bill Bod-den issued a revised scheme to ' enliven the show; This broadcast is aired on Saturday afternoons from ^=3 five to five-twenty with Dan Downey and Dave Curtin as quiz-masters and Bodden as general director.
President Vail Pischke urged members of the club to work up their ideas for new programs. Jack Coleman suggested a new type quiz show, and Bodden presented a plan for a commentary broadcast featuring on the initial appearance Dean Manion’s Lessons in Liberty.
Lawless Presents Paper at Wrangler Meeting
Bill Lawless’ discussion of the Negro Problem and the objections and additions of members to his solution highlighted last week’s Wrangler’s meeting. Lawless discussed briefly the history of the negro in this country, his place in the pre-war economy, and the opportunities that a war-time setting may extend to the negro.
Because of the absence of a quorum, ratification of constitutional amendments presented by Bernie O’Hora were postponed for another week.
Chicago Club Plans Dance for Mid-August
The Chicago Club, probably the largest organization on the campus with a total membership of over 300, met last week in room 116 of the Main Building to discuss plans for a dance they are to sponsor August 15.
According to Bill Sullivan, a Sorin Hall senior,, president of the club, arrangements have been completed to have the dance at the Knickerbocker Hotel in Chicago. Not only members of the club are invited but all other Notre Dame men who wish to attend are urged to do so. The Colonial Club orchestra will furnish the music, and bids will be $2.50. Tentative plans have been made to have a special South Shore train run for N.D. students. The dance will be informal.
Other officers of the Chicago club this year are Roger Cummings, vice-president; Bill McCaughey, secretary; and Joe Farmar, treasurer. The club plans to have a meeting tonight to complete arrangements for the dance, and all members are urged to attend. Place of the meeting is on all bulletin boards.
Press Club Officers
Elected at Meeting
The Notre Dame Press club has announced the new officers who were elected for the summer and fall semesters at a meeting two weeks ago. Bill Reynolds, A s h e v i 11 e, N. C., sportseditorof the Scholastic, was elected president of the organization; Dick Creevy, varsity halfback from Chicago, was named vice-president; Bob Dunne, Scholastic
prof, cooney sports writer from Apalachicola, F1 a., was elected secretary; and Charles Kliebacker, Administration editor of the Scholastic from Cullman, Ala., is treasurer. All except Dunne, a junior, are senior journalism majors.
At this informal convention of Notre Dame journalists plans were also made for the coming year.. The club held a meeting this week and further discussed these plans. According to Mr. John M. Cooney, Ph.D., head of the Department of Journalism and faculty advisor for the club, the annual Press Club banquet will be held in the. fall. According to the new president, a cafe.meeting will be held next week. to make plans for biweekly meetings to which various newspaper men will be invited as guest speakers.
The Press club has long been an outstanding campus organization at Notre Dame. It is the hope of all members to -follow in the footsteps of such men as Harry Flannery, Harry Sylvester, Frank Wallace and Pat Hari, who were all outstanding members of the club.
The Notre Dame Department of Journalism and the Press club has done a lot of fine work for which it can be very proud. In addition to' turning out many fine writers and journalists, in 1936 its members all over the country cooperated in the dedication of a monument to Rev. , John B. Tabb, a leading poet from Virginia. Father Tabb died in 1909 leaving an old country estate. This unique homestead was destroyed not long afterwards. Under the direction of Mr.
(Continued on page 21) .
CENTENNIAL SENIOR BALL SET FOR SEPTEMBER 18;
COMMITTEES CONSIDERING BAND AND DECORATIONS
be received by Lee Raymond’; 215 Alumni. Fame and fortune, said Mr. Moritz, -will come surely and quickly to the’ lucky winner.—George Kelly
There was no Senior Ball at Notre Dame in 1842, but this year’s Ball carries back that far. General Chairman Pete Moritz made two big announcements in the past week: one, that the Ball null specifically observe the University’s 100th birthday by taking the name Centennial; the other, that it will happen on the evening of Sept. 18.
Although seniors had expressed their preference in a vote sponsored by the committee of chairmen, until last Monday the date was indefinite. The margin was heavy in favor of an early fall date which, the majority reasoned, while making allowance for the reach of the draft, would not exclude their vacationing classmates. Weather possibilities also figured in the rejection of the alternate dates, late summer and late fall. The committee investigated further: the disciplinary office had no way of compiling accurately an estimate of the number of men immediately liable to the draft but reported that at least 42 absentee seniors would return for the fall semester. After the committee decided upon Sept. 18 complaints from individual seniors led Father Burke to suggest an inquiry by senior , members of the Student Council. The inquiry came off Monday night; the complaints were weighed and the original date kept.	,
Ball to have Centennial atmosphere.
Naval burden and all (Rockne Memorial was found still hale enough to provide -a ballroom), but whose band and what decorations it will have are not known. Moritz and Lee Raymond, music chairman, were in Chicago yesterday negotiating with band agents. Both promised good news soon. Herb Melton, in charge of decorations, has focused his search for theme materials on subjects relative to the centennial. He too has promised an early announcement.
Trying times are blamed for the stunted growth of several items. Ordinarily, such things as a candle-light supper preceding the Ball and a Saturday afternoon Tea Dance would be publishable facts by now but Chairman Moritz is up against unique obstacles. Whether the student wing of the Dining Hall will be cafeterirized is something the candlelight supper hangs upon. Jack Jeakle stated that the Tea Dance will be held at the Chain O’ Lakes Country Club; its time and music were among the things left to future meetings of the committee of chairmen.
Besides the name and date, Moritz announced the opening of the traditional song-writing contest. It is up to some senior to turn out lyrics fine enough to be played by Kostalanetz or Whiteman or whoever is here on the 18th. Entries will
Novel Doings Planned
For Co-op Day Program
Immediately after supper and grotto prayer on Thursday evening the fieldhouse will begin to fill with curious student spectators coming to participate in the Cooperation Day program. As soon as Master of Ceremonies Paul Lillis gets everything under control he will explain, as below, the intricacies of the evening’s program. The program will revolve about interhall games, comic presentations, and the finale—a student pep rally.
The interhall games will be a medley of old-time class day events, everything from blind-man pillow fights to Indian wrestling. Two men will fight it out in each event within the limits of the boxing ring and other such familiar encounters with unfamiliar names. Each hall will be represented by a team of ten or 15 men, chosen by the hall Student Council representatives and each man will participate in one event. After all of the individual competitions the teams will line up for some really old-time tug-of-w'ars. Points will be alloted for each winner with the hopeful conclusion that there will be a prize for the winning hall.
The whole thing sounds very unusual but also like a great deal of fun for the spectators and the participants. This idea—Cooperation—which has been floating about the campus for the last couple of weeks, has so far meant something concrete only to those fellows who were in on the hall parties—source of the Cooperation Program—from the beginning. The program for Thursday, and those for the Swimming Meet and the Vaudeville show will be its introduction to the student body as a whole.—Frank Kearns
WARNING TO SENIORS who failed to report for their Dome portraits: You will be given a final opportunity to appear in the December Dome of 1942. Next week the photographers will be in the studio in Walsh Hall basement for two afternoons to take care of all delinquents. For further particulars watch your: hall bulletin board.
5
COOPERATION SPIRIT BOOMS THROUGHOUT CAMPUS;
HALL PARTIES ARE SUCCESSFUL; PICNICS PLANNED
The auditorium of the Engineering Building experienced the unusual last night. The men from Dillon, recuperating from the “bone sessions” of the quarterly examinations joined up in the trend of the Campus Cooperation program and threw themselves a real party. The boys “cooperated” in quickly consuming the refreshments passed out by promoters Bill Rabbett, Ed O’Connor and John Sweeney, and then settled back to watch some of their hallmates put on a show. Brock Lynch, “Paul Draper” of the spring K. of C. Vaudeville show, scored with more of the same. An octet composed of Glee Club members then serenaded the party with a numbei- of “ye olde songs” and Bill McShane, another highlight of the entertainment, added to the color- with a few violin solos. From all reports, about 200 Dillonites took part in the private jamboree, o
Reports coming in from the other hall parties planned for this week were not quite as complete, but it appears that the contagion already prompted parties in every student residence hall on the campus . . . except Alumni, which, far from not planning a party, is planning such a lavish one—ask Bill Brady and Jim Allen —that it decided to postpone it until after the close of the Cooperation Program proper in order to be sure of being able to make all arrangements in time. From here it looks like a hall picnic in the making. Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips did things on somewhat less extensive a scale last night but with little less enjoyment. Dave Curtin, boom-voiced judge of the recent operetta “Trial By Jury,” piloted the Cavanaugh talent as master of ceremonies. The party was held in Cavanaugh Rec. John Anhut, hall stu-. dent council man, and Paul Carr promoted.
The frosh of Breen-Phillips Hall, not to be outdone, held theirs last night as well, and invited the close-to-50 students residing in St. Edward’s Hall to participate in the proceedings in Breen-Phillips
CO OP NEWS
MONDAY, August 2: Professor Yves Simon at Student-Professor Meeting, 7:15 p.m. Rockne Lounge, on “The Fall of France.” 1	' All welcome.	■	.	.	'	. •
THURSDAY, August 6: CO-OP DAY. Events-begin-after supper. (see story). Master of Ceremonies: Paul Lillis. , _ .	.
TO COME:	'
'	.	. Swimming Meet (8th), Vaudeville (13th), Ceremonies of the
Feast of the Assumption (15th).	.
Rec. Refreshments and entertainment were again the formula.
The idea behind the hall parties, that of better acquaintance and more fraternal spirit within the halls, seemed to have caught if rumors of continuing hall ventures stand as any indication. Sorin has a picnic in mind, and other halls other things. For the moment, however, the K. of C. will be after each hall for the names of the winners in the hall entertainment. Thursday, August 13, they entertain the whole student body in Washington Hall—John O’Hara
Commerce Forum Hears
Richardson on War Status
Last Monday members of the Commerce Forum had the opportunity of hearing an address by Mr. Howard E.-Richardson, manager of the local War Production Board. Mr. Richardson’s topic was “Where Do We Stand Today,” and he located our position by stating that we are at the crossroads of victory or defeat. He went on to show how Germany and Japan had many years of preparation behind them and a very definite, planned schedule which facilitated many of their surprise moves of the past. This he illustrated with a chart.
Mr. Richardson explained the workings of the War Production Board, both in Washington and in the 13 regions in the country. He gave many examples of conversion of home industries to war production, among which was a unique example of a former linoleum manufacturing company now producing 75 mm. shells..
Before the address, Gail Fitch, president of the Commerce Forum, outlined the plans of the' club for the summer. Softball games, tennis matches, and a golf tournament are planned. Blair McGowan is working on a picnic, and discussion groups are being planned for the fall. After themeeting, all new members were signed up.—James McElroy
Villagers Summer Dances To Be at Indiana Club
Within the next few weeks the Notre Dame Villagers Club will resume its series of dances which will be held in the air-conditioned Indiana Club of South Bend. In addition to the already popular “Notre Dame men only” dances, the Villagers intend to sponsor dances for the Naval Trainees who are now on campus.
All the dances held so far this semester at St. Patrick’s auditorium have been very successful. Due to the crowds and the lack of an adequate cooling system, it has. been found necessary to move, the dances to another hall. Along with this change to the Indiana Club, it might be necessary to raise the admission price. The atmosphere of the Indiana Club will, however, certainly compensate for any such change.—Shaun McDermott
Liturgy Commission
Distributes Missals
The campus unit of the Student Commission on Liturgy paused in their business meetings this past week to review the activities of the group since its organization in March of the spring semester. Under the leadership of Martin McLaughlin and George Bariscillo, the commission has become one of the most active committees of its kind in the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation. .
Weekly recitative Masses with intro-. - ductions by Rev. John" Haley, C.S.C., highlighted the spring semester work of the commission; A class in the use and value of the Daily Missal was also sponsored by the group.
Ah extensive program for the opening week of the summer semester was suggested, and the result was the first freshman-retreat,- caried out by the commis-. sion in cooperation with the religious department. The students of the commission wrote bulletins’ for the freshmen, planned meetings and schedules, led the Stations of the Cross around St. Joseph’s Lake, and inaugurated a successful Missal campaign in Breen-Phillips.
The summer activity has included a similar Missal campaign in Walsh Hall. . All of these plans have been suggested, . planned, and carried through by members of the commission representing every class. McLaughlin headed the group until this summer when Bariscillo, an economics major from Bradley Beach, N. J., took over. The commission has cooperated with regional and national student commissions and has contributed and received reports from these groups.
6
SCIENCE MUSEUM VISITED BY FEW STUDENTS;
MANY SKELETONS VIE TO OUT-CREAK ONE ANOTHER
JAMES C. SHERIDAN
■ Every student has been in the Science Hall at one time or another, but very few have ever visited the old part of the building which houses the Museum of Natural History.	.
As you go up the front steps of the Science Hall, you feel yourself transcending time into an atmosphere of dusty venerableness. At first the interior seems dark and foreboding, then curiosity is displaced with admiration, not only for the museum but the building itself which at one time was one of the.largest structures devoted exclusively to scientific . studies in the United States. The Science Hall might not be the best of its kind now, but the museum and building have withstood the ravages of time so well that they seem all the more impressive and worthy of respect.
In 1883 “the cornerstone of this impressive edifice was laid by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson.” Father Zahm’s untiring efforts as head of the Science Department had much to do with its construction. He became first curator. As the building neared completion ' there could be seen a never ending procession of individuals transporting the contents of the museum to its new habitat. This stream of life could be compared to the exodus from Noah’s Ark, or to bring us up to date in comparison, with the ejected flow of students wending their way towards new halls when the" Navy took over.	*
There are many interesting exhibits, and one does not have to be a naturalist to appreciate them. If you expect to’encounter saber toothed tigers and eggs of the Dodo bird, this museum is not for you. Of course there are many valuable articles on display, but what makes it interesting from, a layman’s point of view are the homey, familiar things that he sees. There are stuffed birds, a few of
There are strange exhibits in every corner.
which you might see eating grass seed out of your front yard. How much better to see this particular variety now at rest in a glass case?	.
Passing very lightly over the geological specimens, since most of us can not tell one rock from another anyway, we come to the cases lined with mounted animals. From the chipmunk to the timber wolf, all are to be seen in lifelike poses.' Here again everything is within our scope. It is truly a museum, of Natural History.
Further, along the line are collections of skeletons. No doubt they are the ones' that formerly belonged to Dr. Boyd; the same that were on exhibition at the inter-state exposition of Chicago not so many years ago. At any rate they are still creaking around. And I do mean creaking, for the only thing holding a . skeleton of a horse together are bolts that would do justice to a medium tank.
Some of the exhibits are funny, many curious, all excellent. The science museum is truly a museum in the highest sense of the word.
Campus Is Not Cooled by Pink Slip Deluge
Midnight oil is again in use (supposedly), the folks back home are receiving letters of explanation and the rectors are issuing campuses, because once again those dreaded pinkies have made their appearance on the campus.
With the summer heat and all (a new excuse at last), pink slips seem very popular this quarter, in so far as 1042 ' deficiencies have been distributed among 638 unfortunate students.
From the summer enrollment of 2021 students, 364 received but one pinkie each, 176 saw on their slips two deficien
cies, on 74 pinkies there were three failures, 18 campus lads acquired four each, while by-now-super-explaining students -saw five on their quarterly informers.
No person received six pinkies, but there was one student who managed to obtain a below-par note in each of his classes and as a result holds this quarter’s record with seven.—Dick Kisgen
Biology Club Holds
Outing in Michigan
The Biology Club, ranking as one of the more active campus clubs, held a successful picnic on the shores of Lake Michigan last Sunday. Approximately 40 members attended.
Near the village of Sawyer, the members of the club together with faculty . members of the Biology Department, spent the greater part of the day swimming, playing softball, and enjoying a fine lunch. A faculty team captained by Professor John D. Mizelle defeated a team composed of student members. Professors Reyniers, Ervin, Powers, and Noecker were the featured offensive of -the faculty squad.
■ According to Bob Nelson, president, the organization is completing plans for a sizzling hot-dog roast soon. Details will be posted on all bulletin boards as soon as completed.—John Shea
Many Popular Films
Scheduled for August
The list of motion pictures scheduled for the month of August has been released by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of Washington Hall entertaniment. The popular movies coming in the future feature such top-flight stars as Errol Flynn, Humphrey Bogart, William Powell, and Ronald Reagan.
According to attendance this summer on Saturday nights, the stundets are showing appreciation and interest for the fine movies being shown this year. The following list for August will undoubtedly prove as entertaining as those of the past two months have been.
Saturday, Aug. 1—Keep ’em Flying; Information Please; News.
Saturday, Aug. 8—They Died With Their Boots On; Disney Cartoon; News.
Friday, Aug. 14—Shadow of the Thin Man; Information Please; News.
Saturday, Aug. 15—Vatican; 5y?UtaIe Heart; News.
Saturday, Aug. 22 — International Squadron; Disney Cartoon; News.
Saturday, Aug. 29—Dumbo; Information Please; News.
Saturday, Sept. 5 — AU Through the Night; Disney Cartoon; News.	-
—Henry Pyne
7
STUDENT-PROF. MEETINGS PROMOTE EDUCATION;
OFFER STUDENTS OPPORTUNITY TO MEET FACULTY
AL SOMMER
For the last six weeks, every Friday or Saturday, a notice has been appearing on the hall bulletin boards announcing a student-professor meeting for the following Monday. Many students, from freshmen up, have been inquiring of friends, “What is this student-professor stuff?” Unfortunately, most of them found the other fellow just as much in the dark as they were.
For several years now student-professor meetings have been held weekly on the campus. Here’s the way they are conducted. Each week a popular professor on the campus is invited to speak. He chooses a topic in which he is interested and which he thinks will interest the students. At the meeting he relaxes in the corner of a sofa with a cigarette and just talks. The students take it easy in the soft, leather chairs in the Rockne Memorial Lounge and listen. For an hour ' or so, the professor discusses his topic. Then the students ask questions. From then on it is another' “Information Please” program. The students ask the professor to clarify, express opinions, develop certain points. The questions are always flowing freely when the time comes to lock: up the “Rock.”
Many fellows will say, “Oh, so that’s it? Well, I see enough of my profs. None of that for me. I’ll see them in class in daytime. None of this night stuff.”
That is precisely the point and purpose of student-professor meetings. The students see too much of their profs, on the platform and not enough of them as human beings vitally interested in subjects the students are interested in and constantly willing to share their knowledge, and education. The students picture the profs, on unapproachable pedestals; the profs, recognize this attitude and despair of ever being able to meet the stu- . dents on common ground.
Some students saw this attitude, too. They organized the student-professor meetings to give the students. and the profs, a chance to meet informally and discuss the topics of the day. The meetings began. Immediately - the profs, saw their chance to contact their students on the same; level and hence gave it their all-out support. And many of. the students have realized that there is more to a prof, than a talking machine on a. platform.	-
These meetings are held every Monday night in the Rockne Memorial lounge. Everyone is welcome. If any further details are wanted, see someone who has
attended. Incidentally, he’ll probably recommend the meetings heartily. Then hop over yourself some Monday night at 7:15 and meet your profs, informally.
The next opportunity for Notre Dame students to take advantage of these meetings will be offered next Monday evening when Dr. Yves Simon of the department of philosophy ■will speak on the general topic, “Democracy.”
Leeper Park Concert Given by Glee Club
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, sang Sunday night at a concert given at Leeper Park by the South Bend Federated band. More than 2,000 persons attended the performance sponsored by City Councilman George F. Hull and the park department. Among the selections sung by the Glee Club were “Strike up the Band,” “All Through the Night,” and a medley of patriotic numbers.
The next concert the club was scheduled to give, was at St. Mary’s, but due to unforeseen circumstances this appearance has been called off. Another program is to be given in South Bend in the near future.	•
Band Gets New Director;
More Concerts Planned
On Monday evening the members of the University Band met their second • guest conductor of the summer session. Through the joint efforts of Mr. Daniel Pedtke, head of the department of music, and Father John Burke, prefect of discipline, Mr. Walter E; Cleland from South Bend has been obtained. Mr. Cleland has been associated with instrumental and band music for a great-part of his life and is most capable of handling such a job. "	. .	, \
Mr. Cleland is. a native of Nebraska . and. .attended State Teacher’s College in Kearney, Nebr. He later received his master’s degree in instrumental Theory, and Band Music from the University of Iowa where he served as assistant band. director for the University of Iowa band. ' Since that time Mr. Cleland has been affiliated with the public school system of South Bend and at present is the director of instrumental music of Central HigK's:ch6oT.**He is also a member of the South Bend Symphony orchestra. '
Plans are already being laid for the future. A concert program is taking form and will be presented the first part of next month.—C. S. Coco
"Scrip "Publication to
Appear in Late August
It is no longer a rumor, but rather a fact, that Scrip, the literary phenomenon of the campus, will appear in August. According to John Gilligan, editor of Scrip, there are .to be some innovations which will extend, both the scope and reading interest of what used to be the . Notre Dame quarterly magazine.
In the future Scrip will appear once a • semester in a somewhat enlarged edition. The last vestige of “old Notre Dame” has finally been, tinged by the war. Consequently there will be only three copies per year.
The first issue of this school year, and the only one for this semester, will be delivered on August 21. It will contain the same line of fiction -writing and book reviews, plus more poetry and art work.
Several fine book reviews will be available in the August issue, such as Steinbeck’s The Moon is Down, Marjorie Raw-ling’s Cross Creek, and Werfel’s latest success, Song of Bernadette.
In the absence of Rev. Leo L. Ward, Professor Francis O’Malley has become faculty advisor pro tern.—James Downey
- Sophomore Cotillion
Set for Stanford Game
The Sophomore Cotillion is to be held Oct. 29, the weekend of the Stanford game. The orchestra has not yet been chosen, since one cannot be engaged more than six weeks beforehand.
In other years the cotillion has always been held in town, but this year the class is trying to get permission to hold it in the Rockne Memorial. The gymnasium would be tied-up for two or three days however, so that the dance committee is not positive that it can be had.
.. _ Students ‘ should make reservations ahead of time for their dates. The reception committee has compiled a price *1 list of all the eligible hotels and boarding houses. Arrangements can be made at 333 Dillon Hall. If anyone has an ■ idea about, favors for the dance he should see Roy Grumbine.
The officers of the sophomore class are Frank Cusick, president; Frank Crowley, vice-president; .Jack Conway, secretary and treasurer; and Jack Leahy, dance chairman. The others on the dance committee are Richard Drier, John Herlihy, John Conway, Anthony Early, Jp-seph 'Ldng, Roy Grumbine,- arid' James Crowley.—Bob Sinkle	.
EBEL
AamuuAbudton

800 FRESHMEN ALREADY REGISTERED;
CAPACITY FOR FALL TERM EXPECTED
All indications of pre-registration figures for the coming fall semester point to the usual normal enrollment for Notre Dame, regardless of war conditions and the consequent draining of man power. Approximately 800 Freshmen applications have already been received, the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar, revealed this week. .	.
Because of these wholesome assurances, administrative officers are mildly optimistic in their prediction for the Centenary Year. However, at no time was there any indication that the University program or curriculum would be curtailed in any manner. Again, this year, there is the promise of a university year complete in every respect. While many other colleges and universities have faced the reality of depleted ranks, Notre Dame finds herself on the verge of the usual struggle between “the masses and the classes.”	.
The applications have not been classified according to the various colleges within the University, but this work is expected to be completed before .the end of the week. Figures on the pre-registration that was conducted during the past week for students here on the campus now, had not been tabulated as the Scholastic went to press.
• According to Mr. Donald J. Easley, director of -student accounts, residence in the various halls will probably be on the same basis for the fall semester as it is at the present. Mr. Easley said that the sophomores now living in St. Edward’s Hall will remain there, while some of the incoming freshmen will double up in Zahm Hall.
There is no doubt that the country needs college graduates at this time. The various deferment plans offered by the different branches of service to college students testify to this fact. Most of the students enrolling this fall will be the ones who have taken advantage of one of these offers.
That the University can accommodate a large group of incoming students has already been proven. This spring stu-■ dents doubled up in Alumni, Dillon, and Cavanaugh to make room for the Navy trainees with a minimum of inconvenience for all concerned. Now there is
ample room for freshmen in partially-filled Breen-Phillips and Zahm Halls which will, of course, be vacated, by the religious at the end of this semester.
Meantime, apart from the University’s scholastic regime,' the U.S. Navy Trainees will continue their indoctrination courses approximately every four weeks.
Advance ticket sales for the home football games presage a campus teeming with the largest crowds in. recent years. Class dances have likewise been assigned for the fall season, and have met with the hearty response of the entire student body.
C.S.C. Changes of Much Interest to Campus
The annual assignment of “obediences” announced last Monday by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, made official several changes and additions in the Prefect of Religion’s department and listed changes that will, affect several priests formerly assigned to the University.
Rev. John P? Lynch, C.S.C., prefect of religion, whose health forced him to relinquish the work for the summer semester has been granted an additional leave
Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C.
as chaplain of the Medical Missionaries, Fox Chase, Philadelphia, Pa. He is succeeded at Notre Dame by the Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., who will be assisted by the Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., and the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., the latter newly ordained. Rev. John J. Haley, C.S.C., becomes chaplain at St. Charles Home for Boys, Wauwatosa, Wis.
Rev. George J. Marr, C.S.C., long a popular professor and rector at Notre Dame, will teach in his major field, theology, and will serve as confessor at the novitiate of the Congregation at Rolling Prairie, Ind.
Rev. George J. Marr, C.S.C.
Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C., former prefect of relgion at Notre Dame and a leading contributor to Our Sunday Visitor, returns from Holy Cross missions in New England to become chaplain to the Brothers at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis. Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., assumes new duties as assistant editor of the Ave Maria.
Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S-.C., former superior general of the Congregation, who has been doing missionary work on the Mexican border and in New England, will return to Notre Dame as a member of the University faculty.
Several former professors at the University will return to the campus after serving in other capacities within the Congregation, Rev. Francis T. Maher, C.S.C., returns from Portland to the Community House at Notre Dame. Rev. James J. Quinlan, C.S.C., returns from Cathedral in Indianapolis to the home missions and the Community House at Notre Dame, as does the Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., who has been in Austin; Texas. Two new teachers in Holy Cross-Seminary are the Rev. William J. Lyons, C.S.C., and the Rev. Paul Doherty, C.S.C. The latter, former assistant at St. Patrick’s parish in South Bend, will also be assistant superior at the Community House and a member of the local council.
9
INTER-AMERICAN SEMINAR ON SOCIAL STUDIES TO HOLD SESSION AT NOTRE DAME IN AUGUST
The University of Notre Dame will he host on August 31 to a session of the Inter - American Seminar on Social Studies being held in the United States during the latter part of August and the first half of September.
The Seminar, which will be attended by some 15 leaders of social thought and action from various countries of Latin America, together with a similar number of leaders from the United States and • several from Canada who have been prominent in social education and organization, will first meet for a week in Washington and will then be continued in several cities of the United States. The program will be under the direction of the National Catholic Welfare Con-
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
ference and will be conducted principally by means of general discussion. The sessions will be high-lighted with addresses by outstanding authorities in government and in social and economic fields as special problems arise.
Notre Dame, rich in her Latin American relations throughout her 100 years, will be represented at her session by administrative officials and some 15 faculty members of the University. The thesis to be discussed at this session will be “The Americas and the Crisis of Civilization.”
The program of the Seminar includes discussions on the crisis which confronts civilization and on the importance of the of the Americas in helping to resolve the crisis. Consideration will be given to the Catholic social program and social action - in the Americas in relation to the chief
social-economic problems of the Americas. Special consideration will be given to the relations of the American countries with Europe in the post-war world and the tasks of the whole period of post-war reconstruction. Other items included on the program are discussions of the effect of public opinion in the Americas on the task of resolving the present gigantic crisis, and a consideration of future plans for inter-American collaboration in social action.
Included in the list of faculty members invited to the Notre Dame session are: Sen or Eduardo Alcayaga, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., Mr. Jose C. Corona, the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Mr. Frank T. Flynn, the Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., Mr. Waldemar Gurian, Mr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, the Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., Mr. Walter M. Langford, Mr. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. James E. McCarthy, Mr. Francis E. McMahon, the Rev. John A. O’Brien, and the Rev. Leo R. Ward.
Research Laboratory Calls Prof. J. L. Kelly
Professor J. L. Kelley who has been a member of the staff of the department of mathematics since September 1941, is to be added to the roster of Notre Dame mathematicians who are engaged in war research. The Ballistics Research Laboratory at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, requested his release so that he may join the group of outstanding young mathematicians doing war research at Aberdeen.
New Courses Added in
College of Engineering
Dean Raymond J. Schubmehl has announced that in conjunction with the accelerated war program recently adopted by the University a new course in air raid shelters has been added to the curriculum of the College of Engineering.
This course is designed chiefly to study bomb resistant structures and is taught in light of the recent experience of the structures in England and the results of the Edgewood Arsenal tests. One of its primary aims is to acquaint the student with the current problem of constructing air raid shelters and to provide him with sufficient treatment of the subject so he can cope with the problem after graduation. '
Another course being taught for the
first time this semester in the engineering school is the practical radio class, designed to enable the student to qualify for his amateur operator’s license at the completion of the course. Taught by members of the faculty in the electrical engineering department, the new course consists of radio theory, practical work
Dean Ray J. Schubmehl
in this theory in the laboratory, and a large amount of code work. The course is open to any interested student in any college of the University.
For the past semester the engineering building has been available for use in training several hundred citizens of South Bend in useful defense industries. Included in this training were classes in accounting, personnel management, radio, foremanship and- other defense jobs. These courses were under the governmental sponsored Engineering, Science and Management War Training Program. Further classes under the ESMWT will open at the University about Sept. 15.
The college of engineering is also cooperating with various industries in South Bend by performing research for them in the campus laboratories.
Calculus Class Ranks
High in Examination
Last April, the Calculus class of Professor Menger took a National Cooper-, ative Examination for college students who had completed two years of their work. This week the results of this ex- -amination, which is designed by the American Council of Education, were received at Notre Dame. The median grade of the N. D. class is 104.7 as compared with an average median grade of 78 for all similar groups with two years of college mathematics achieved in other universities.	.
10
Prof. John FitzGerald
Leaves to Go in Service
Mr. John J. FitzGerald, assistant professor of philosophy at the University, left yesterday for Harvard university, Cambridge, Mass., where he will undergo
Prof. John J. FitzGerald
naval indoctrination training. Mr. FitzGerald has been commissioned a lieutenant (junior grade) in the DV-P class of the United States Navy.
A member of the faculty since the September of 1937, Mr. FitzGerald received his A.B. from Boston College in 1933. From the University of Louvain, Belgium, he received his Ph.B. in 1934, his Ph.L. in 1936 and his Ph.D. in 1937. He is a Fellow of the Belgian and American Educational Foundation, and a member of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
Notre Dame Professors _ on Defense Committee
An Associated Defense Committee of the South Bend Technical Societies was set up recently. The committee is composed of the chairman of each of the South Bend Engineering and Scientific Societies. These societies represent approximately 800 technical men in the South Bend area. One of the main objectives of this committee is to make possible a proper and speedy evaluation of inventions submitted by various patriotic persons with an aim to aid the ■ war effort of the nation. After the evaluation of the inventions, the committee will send reports on each problem to Robert C. Brown, Jr., consulting director of the Technical Development Section of the War Production Board in Chicago.
Any ideas that appear to have special merit will be given proper attention by the Technical Development Section and a follow - through procedure will be adopted for submission to the proper authorities in the armed services. The work of the local committee is voluntary.
Several members of the faculty of Notre Dame are members of the committee or participating in various subcommittees to evaluate inventions. Dr. Eugene Guth is executive secretary of the defense committee, Professor J. A. Northcott and Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C., are members of the defense committee. Dr. R. L. Anthony, Dr. Bernard Waldman, Dr. William H. Hamill, Dr. A. S. Coffinberry, Professor Ronald E. Rich, Professor C. Robert Egry and Professor Harold E. Ellithom are members of subcommittees.
John F. Phelan is chairman of the defense committee. Charles E.- Scogland represents the local W.P.B. and E. L. Bach represents the South Bend Association of Commerce.
The first meeting of the committee was held Monday evening, the 20th of July in the office of the local W. P. B., 206 City National Bank Bldg. The invitations to the meeting were sent out by. Dr. Eugene Guth as executive secretary of the committee for Howard E. Richardson, manager of the South Bend War Production Board. Several ideas for solution of war problems were submitted to the group, discussed, analyzed and referred to various sub - committees for further study and evaluation.
Mr. Armstrong Speaks on
"Griping at Notre Dame "
Mr. James E. Armstrong, director of publicity and editor of the Alumnus, spoke on “Griping at Notre Dame” Thursday evening,- July 23, in Walsh Hall at an informal gathering sponsored by the Student-Professor organization.
A digest of Mr. Armstrong’s main points is as follows:
“Griping at Notre Dame is really one of the great traditions. The thing to keep in mind is that much information that used to change hands generally and easily in a smaller school is not easy to get now. Consequently, more harm can be done by careless complaint than in earlier years. But the tradition, like many others, need not be lost in the new order. Basically, students ought to inform themselves of what Notre Dame is, and what Notre Dame tries, to do, when they come to school here. They ought not to wait until they have invested four years. If this advice is heeded, much of the complaining will lose its violence and
its wrong -implications and will resolve itself into the pleasant pastime that it has furnished for other generations of Notre Dame men. Then, too, it will cease to be a source of friction between students and administration, and can become again as it has always been, a source of real, if unadmitted, guidance to those who make the laws.”—Bob Dunne
Notre Dame Club Recently Formed in Canal Zone
Word has been received from Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin G. DuBois, former professor of French at the Univer-
Lt. Col. Benjamin G. DuBois sity that a. Notre Dame Club has recently been formed at Quarry Heights, Canal Zone.
Members include Lt. Col. DuBois, who is in the Quartermaster Corps; Joseph Harrington, ’39; Raymond Dubriske, ’41, both graduates in foreign commerce ,and Hugh K. O’Donnell. All are in the service at Quarry Heights.
Lieut. W. P. Marsh, ’41, Killed in Bomber Crash
Another Notre Dame son has given his life in faithful service to his country. First Lieut. W. P. Marsh 3rd, of Hines, Oregon, a 1941 graduate of Notre Dame, was killed in an army bomber crash on Signal Hill near Post Falls, Idaho, in the earlier part of July.
Lieut. Marsh, a former resident of Alexandria, La., attended Bolton High School in that city before moving with his parents to Oregon. He was graduated from Burns High School in Hines, and in June of 1941 received his degree from the College of Commerce at the University. Shortly after his graduation he entered the Army Air Corps.
In the early spring he received his wings at Luke Field, Arizona, and was married March 28, 1942, to Miss Davida Craddock of Seneca, Oregon. At the time of his death Lieut. Marsh was stationed -in Spokane, Wash. ‘
11
1 ■ .... 1,1 • — •- . ■ 11 ‘ - "— ■ —
.	, *7Ite Ncwm d ^bame >
VM ■	1	•	.. ...... ■	" ■
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
by
THE PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICER
Next time your group discusses our war effort listen very closely. You will hear each in turn feeding his own “goat.” “It’s Congress that is wrong,” one will defiantly say ... as if he just discovered we had a Congress. “No . . . it’s the admirals and generals,” chimes in another. Just pick your “goat” and hang the blame on it . . . “production boards,” the “short-sighted manufacturers,” or perhaps the “newspapers” and so the conversation goes. But you won’t hear anyone say that he himself is the goat of this war effort! Oh no . . . you and I are not to blame for mistakes which have occurred so far. That’s getting too personal.
And yet what have we individual Americans done to be such great Monday-morning quarterbacks? We take the glories of a victory in our stride, but stumble on set-backs. We put everything under the microscope except ourselves. Take yourself for example. Can you name the congressman from your dis-, trict who represents you? A Nazi, Italian or Jap know their leaders, you can bet on that. But men like ourselves heap criticism upon a congressman we can’t even name, and then turn around and elect a Senator whose platform consists of “Pass the Biscuits Pappy.”
We Americans have heard about and shared the blessings of a democracy all our lives. Now we’re learning that those blessings carry with them unbounded responsibilities. Let’s hope for our sake we take our responsibilities in a much more, serious manner- than we accepted the blessings. If we don’t we won’t have to worry about either. Hitler will see to that. We’ve got to stop merely talking about the war and start to fight it as individuals who want to win it.
We must start getting tough. And the sooner we get tough as individuals, the sooner we will be unbeatable together.
12
NOTES TO YOU
The Fourth Battalion, commanded by Lieut. (jg) E. C. Fant, is shooting once again for the best battalion prize. Lieut. Fant’s battalion won it with the first V-7 group and with the last class of commissioned officers who were in training here.
The 233 men who make up the Fourth know about their battalion’s past record and are shooting with everything they have to make it three in a row, despite the fact that their unit had to move to new quarters in Badin Hall which they believe may handicap them somewhat.
The largest group of applicants yet— 165—turned out for auditions with the Capt. Burnett Choir. They practiced their numbers in the chapel of Lyons Hall and were rewarded when they went on the air for the first time with the satisfaction of having given a superb performance.
Dario Aquilani, of Ogden, la., gave a fine rendition of “Old Folks at Home.” Aquilani is at ease before the mike having sung on the air many times before.
T. E. Crawley is the leader of the present choir and has devoted much of his spare time to training and moulding the group into a harmonious unit for their first broadcast.
Frequent boasts overheard among the trainees at the Navy School: “I’ve gained five pounds since I’ve been here”; “I’ve put two inches on my chest”; or “I believe I’m getting into shape.”
Most of that extra poundage is good, hard muscle caused by that hour and three quarters of physical drill and exercises every day initiated with this class. Former classes had exercises only everv other day.
Add active careers.... Arthur P. Williams, 27, V-7 man from Normal, Ill.,. ;. president of three fraternities, one of them honorary,, while at the University of Illinois from 1932 to 1936.... graduated with honors from U. of I.... 1936 AIA.medal, went to M. I. T. where he won another medal and the Allerton Travelling Fellowship, also won the Ricker Prize at Illinois.... later became assistant professor of architecture at Oklahoma' A. & M. College and in his spare time designed aviation airports, a-
concentration camp and a glider school base for Army Engineers.... his hobby, small boat building and Naval architecture.
A V-7 man, who is probably making note of everything he sees around the Navy School for future reference, is Richard M. Witherow, 25, of Wilmette, Ill., a professional fiction writer. He is a graduate of Northwestern University, class of 1938, where he was on the track and swimming teams.
A former member of the Mississippi State Legislature is among this class of V-7s. He is George F. Woodliff, 28, of Jackson, Miss. He is a graduate of the University of Mississippi, class of 1938.
*♦*
John Morton, 23, of Philadelphia, Pa., in this V-7 class is a former three letter man at the University of Maryland. He played lacrosse, hockey and football and in the latter received honorable mention on several All-American teams.
No one in the present class has come near the record of 253 back levers set by a member of the last class of commissioned officers who were here in training, according to Lieut. Frederick Denfeld, athletic officer.
A back lever is performed by hooking the feet under a support and then raising the trunk up from the deck. The hands are clasped behind the head and when the body comes forward the elbows are supposed to touch the opposite knee.
It’s one of the tough physical drills devised by the Navy to put men in shape. Some of the others are push-ups (raising the body from the ground while lying prone, face downward) and chin-ups, which is also known as chinning yourself.
DID YOU KNOW
that the origin of the traditional Navy word “poopdeck” comes from the Latin term “Puppis” as applied to the after part of the ship where the “Pupi” or doll images of the deity were honored in the days of the early Greeks and Romans . . . that the tradition of breaking a bottle of champagne on the prow of a ship at a launching comes down through
the years as the result of religious, cere- . monies. From earliest times, launching has had religious significance and in France in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries the launching ceremony was in many respects similar to the baptismal ceremony . . . that the same day occurs twice in succession on the high seas. For example, when crossing the International Date Line going eastward today is July 31 and tomorrow is still July 31 . . . that “Mother Carey” is the guardian angel of all seamen. ...
That the salute originated from the days of chivalry. It was customary for knights in mail to raise their visors so that those of the same order as well as friendly orders could see the face. In time the gesture denoted membership in the same order or another friendly organization.
(Note: The following address was delivered by Ensign Attstin J. Kennedy, Jr., to the present class of V-7 officercandidates. We believe it should be read by every member of this class so its message ^vill be carried with them.)
You are now entering upon your naval careers, which began the day you were accepted for enlistment as an apprentice seaman. You have become a part of an ancient profession and a time-honored organization. Like all professions, this of the sea has acquired through the centuries a language of its own and certain customs which are peculiar to it. Although the speech may sound quaint to your ears and the customs rigid to the accustomed easy going ways of civilian life, in the coming months and years this manner of speech and this way of life will become a familiar and vitally essential part of your lives.
Customs have had a profound effect upon the formulation of naval regulations. The worth of ceremony rests mainly upon the fact that it binds us to the past while at the same time it lends an air of dignity and respect in all official relations where they occur at home or abroad. Ceremony is to a marked degree the cement of discipline, and upon discipline the service rests. Tradition, when coupled with courage and pride, gives to
the officers corps its highest incentive to carry on.
The great value of tradition is that it leads to an economy of effort; the individual is released from the burden of learning everything from the ground upward and is able to make use of the experience of others. Thus we have practical justification for the fostering of traditional customs.	-	,
As an example of the continuity of tradition we can cite the similar action of Perry at the Battle of Lake Erie to that of John Paul Jones during the Bon. Homme Richard - Serapis action of the Revolutionary War. Both men returned the swords of the defeated captains after these naval encounters. As another example of the continuity of tradition, Lawrence’s dying words in the Chesapeake—“Fight her ’til she sinks and don’t give up the ship.”—were carried to the Battle of Lake Erie by Oliver Hazard Perry. He used these words on the flag flown at the masthead of his ship. This original flag is now on display in Memorial Hall at Annapolis for the guidance of Midshipmen. ■
Picturesque Howard arch is grand entrance to barber shop for V-7 men.
13
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Lawyers glide and slide tonight.
GOT A FAG?
Joe Resch, local sample-cigarette dispenser, has had quite a time of it lately. Joe goes from room to room, (his room to his friend’s room), forcing his wares on the students. He finally reached our hall last week and it was with a delightful scream of “Oh joy!” that we received him. When we opened the little box, two mangey, odorous,, burnt butts fell into our twitching fingers. Joe looked at us cleverly and said: “One of our new services, Pre-smoked.” Then he wandered down the hall dragging the bags under his eyes behind him.
LA DE DA
“Porky,” (just call me Skinhead) Steiner is recovering nicely from a terrific shock received last week. It seems his laundry was ready on time. . . . The band looked ducky at its last two concerts. Sounded kind of ducky, too. Donald Ducky.... Band members were fitted for their football uniforms last week. Fitted in this case means that they traipsed on over to the fieldhouse to see if last year’s uniform was still too small. Under the new system the band will have only two sizes of uniforms: Too big and too small. Quite an improvement over last year when they were all too small. La De Da marches on! . ... Just think, only five months ’til Christmas!
POSITIVELY THE LAST TIME
Each Saturday night another film reaches the end of a long journey. Yessir, it’s movie night in Washington Hall. Each Saturday night some movie star learns to his or her dismay that some picture in which he or she was a star has reached the end of the road and this means that the particular star is finished, washed up. And so it was with regret that Mary Pickford and Lon Chaney were given their walking papers last Saturday night when it was learned that Mary and Lon had reached Washington Hall. Is it any wonder that this stately building is referred to in Hollywood as “the Grave Yard?”
We give you a typical performance. Most of the fellows come around to see
14
how good their memories are. “Hey Joe! Where’s the sports column of the Tribune?’'' Papers are thrown here and there and when you finally do get a copy of the funnies, the lights are turned out. The house lights aren’t dimmed in Washington Hall. They just turn on a fan which blows out the candles. System, that’s Notre Dame. “Close the door. . . . Nah, leave ’em open. . . . We want some air. . . .” Much whistling as a seven-year-old girl -walks in. Near-sighted fellow who forgot his glasses shouts, “You can sit with me, sister.” Always good for a million laughs. What a card! When the noise finally stops the war news is on. “Dewey Returns from Manila” reads the screen. “Liberty Bonds Going Like Everything.” Students look bewildered as the Kaiser is flashed on the screen. Then the main feature is on. If the fellow in the back starts kicking the seat through-it probably means he’s enjoying the show. The hero approaches the heroine. He takes her in his arms; she takes him in her arms. “Ain’t she got skinny arms?” remarks the. fellow next to you. You agree she has skinny arms. The hero and - heroine give each other that look. “How old is this theatre?” asks your neighbor. You tell him you don’t know. He looks at you like you’re a moron or something. The music fades, Jeanne and Ronaldo draw closer, closer, closer. . . . “I’ve seen this picture already” mutters Happy Harry next to you and steps all over your white shoes in a mad attempt to gain the aisle. There’s much applause and when the screen is once more in view Donald Duck is shouting at you. With a dark scowl you get up and follow Happy Harry.
BIG BLOWS FOR
The dinner last Saturday night. . . . The golf shop, by far the best managed establishment on the campus where cokes are really cold and where a cone means a nickel’s worth of fudge-ripple. . . . The South Bend Bus Co. for the extra buses at 11:30 Saturday nights. . . . The spirit and cooperation of students in the recent All-Star football election.
WE'RE USED TO IT
The sailors in South Bend look like so many quarts of milk.’ Of course nbw and then a half-pint strolls by. . .. The Navy theme song these balmy Saturday eve
nings is “Blues in the Night.” . . . One of the V-7s had just picked up a tray and was moving down the line when suddenly there came the sound of a commotion. Said the sailor, “but I thought we had a choice.” Said the chef, “You do. Take it or leave it.” . . . .New definition of a Navy pick-up: a sailor getting his meal in the west dining hall.
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE '
“Don’t open the windows too wide. There may be a draft.”
RUMORS
The Week thinks it a good idea to keep the students informed of the latest “do you know whats” that circulate the campus. Here are just a few: There will be a ten-day vacation between semesters; There will be no cars for Proms and Ball if these dances are held on football weekends; Over 100 students cancelled their subscription to the South Bend Tribune as a result of the latter’s story concerning last week’s walkout; All English majors will be commissioned officers upon graduation and will each be put in command of an aircraft carrier ; The Dome will be out this week.
I.Q.
Are the fans in the dining hall to cool the students or kill the flies? What happened to all the gophers on the golf course? Who threw the mush in grandpa’s whiskers? Is there anyone in school who doesn’t belong to The Book of the Month Club? Does anyone ever buy a book? Do watchmen really wear old band uniforms? Is the fourth floor of Alumni haunted? Does anyone cut his own hair? Who knows? Who cares?-
PICK UP
No it wasn’t a tasty bottle of Royal Crown. This is a little tale of a rootin’ tootin’ hombre from down Sorin way. Way down, in the sub to be exact. He’s the meanest galoot that ever stooped to pick up a pack of cards and he really stooped. 52 times to be exact. It seems that this “Gentleman Joe” is quite a card shark in addition to being numbered among Sorin Subbers. He -walked in on a game one evening last week and demanded to be dealt a hand. They dealt it to him. “52 Pick-Up” was the game and the prefect was it. When they finished dealing his hand he had enough cards, (all over the room), to play solitaire, which he’ll probably be playing from now on. No respect for age over there in Sorin.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Gingerale in 20c bottles. *
JUZWIK AND CRIMMINS LEAD; SEVEN IRISH GRIDDERS PLACED ON ALL-STAR ELEVEN BY "SCHOLASTIC" POLL
The Scholastic staff is well satisfied with their efforts to place the graduated members of last season’s undefeated foot-. ball team on the Chicago Tribune’s ninth annual All-Star team. The final of the nation-wide poll shows seven of the “Fighting Irish” on the squad, two of them, guard Bernie Crimmins and
“Bernie” Crimmins
halfback Steve Juzwik, gained positions on the starting lineup of the college allstars who face the Chicago Bears, pro-. fessional football Yankees, in Soldier’s
Field, August 28. -
Notre Dame tied Minnesota for the honor of placing the most men pn the squad, and for the first time in several years there are more Irish representa-, fives than there are Northwestern Wild- ' cats on the squad. Ohio State and Minnesota shared with Notre Dame the distinction of having two men in the starting lineup.
According to final tabulations, besides Juzwik and Crimmins who each led the balloting for their positions, the Irish representatives placed as follows: end, John Kovatch, third; tackles, Captain Paul Lillis, fourth and Jim Brutz, seventh; guard, Bob Maddock, sixth; and quarterback, Bob Hargrave, fourth. Thus there are two Notre Dame players on ■ the first team, two on the second, one on - the third, and two on the fourth.
Notre Dame still has a chance to take undisputed" possession of the lead in
the total number of players placed on the squad. Herky Bereolos and Ray Ebli, who barely missed making the select group may do so even yet. Should any man listed on the team, for any reason whatsoever, not be able to accept his invitation, then the man next in line in the respective position advances to the squad. Thus Bereolos and Ebli may make it nine Notre Dame representatives.
The fact that only four of the 11 graduated Notre Dame seniors failed to make the grade is a fine boost for Scholastic promotion manager “Red” Lonergan, who worked long and hard in an effort to keep the ball rolling. Very prominent among “Red’s” helpers were: Bill Boss, George Barrett, Reggie Flynn, Kevin O’Toole, Bill Reynolds, and the Student Council. Lonergan both congratulates and thanks all Notre Dame men, both student and alumni, who had a part, whether large or small, in helping to make the all-star balloting a success.
All-Star Oddities
Only four members of the All-American team picked last fall by Grantland Rice, dean of sports writers, were chosen on the starting lineup — Crimmins, Banonis, Kutner and Smith. Four members of the 1941 Irish all-opponent team, made the squad. They are: Bauman, Stanton, DeCorrevont, and Robertson.
Only one eastern and one southern player were chosen among the starters, all the rest being from mid-western schools— the fans think that the best football is played in this section, too. Or perhaps the poll is not quite such a nation-wide affair as it is reputed to be.
There was a total of 3,860,497 votes cast for the 11 Notre Dame men eligible for- the balloting. Steve Juzwik, not good enough for the All-American pickers, polled the third highest number of votes cast as he led the Irish with a total of 528,411 votes. Bernie Crimmins, Notre Dame’s All-American guard was second on the Irish list with 493,762 votes.
Only five players, Graf and Daniell of Ohio State, Kutner of Texas, Erdlitz of -Northwestern, and Juzwik were honored by as many as half a million ballots, Erdlitz, with 562,942 led them all.
The closest competition was for the tackle spots. Paul Lillis, Al Blozis, Urban
“Steve” Juzwik
Odson, James Daniell, and Alf Bauman waged a hot battle all the way until the final day when Daniell shot from fourth place to the fore with a lead of nearly 60,000 votes. The Ohio State star’s support came mostly from the Columbus, Ohio, Dispatch, the newspaper that turned in the finest backing for the hometown crew. This is another boost for Notre Dame as the Irish candidates were elected without the aid of newspaper support.
Cavanaugh Volleybailers
Inspired by Coach Amann
Several weeks ago Alumni II, current terror-men of the Interhall Volleyball league, slapped a listless Cavanaugh Hall I team around in three speedy sets to take the contest. We watched Bill Amann, Cavanaugh Hall’s Rockne, during the massacre. When the fray started little Bill was flopped on the ground—contented that his proteges would deliver the all-out punch necessary for victory. At the end of the first game Bill was sauntering nervously up and down the sidelines begging his team to start humming. Alumni II pocketed the first two games faster than Ollie Hunter runs the mile. By the third game Amann was tearing up and down the out-of-bounds line shrieking, and shouting to his men, “play as a. unit.”
As Alumni II stormed over to the Caf after their easy rout, Coach Bill Amann muttered, “there’s going to be some
15
changes made.” So Bill assembled the weary Rigney, Casey, and the rest of the exhausted Cavanaugh warriors, and like Rockne confined his pep speech to a few snappy sentences.
“It’s time we started to play some real volleyball. . . . I’m beginning to think you fellows are loafing. We usually play two league games a week, which is all right, but whenever we don’t have a scheduled league game at night there’ll be practice. We are going to get some place in this league,” declared the enraged Amann.
As a result, today, Cavanaugh I is tied for first place with St. Ed’s, having won seven games since the lone loss to Alumni II.
Monday and Tuesday’s entertainment on the campus interfered with the schedule, so four games have been placed on the reserve shelf for a later date.
Cavanaugh I was the leading winner last week with triumphs over Alumni I, Breen-Phillips, and lofty St. Ed’s. Father Muckenthaler’s lads tripped the A.C. decisively, 15-1; 15-7; and 15-8.
The Faculty team, which since withdrew from the league because Thursday night is the only evening they have been able to assemble their famous unit, defeated Dillon Hall again. From what has been compiled in the way of statistics, the Dillonites are still rooting hard for the volleybailers. With this support they feel certain that the cellar ■will soon be open to Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh IL
The first round ended last Monday and play is now well started in the second round. No attempt has been made to as- ' semble an All-Star unit as yet, but excluding Vince Commisa, volleyball ruler and spiker par excellence, and the faculty unit, the top team of the league might read: Purcell, Cavanaugh; G. Murphy, Alumni H; Terry, St. Ed’s.; Rigney, Cavanaugh I; Nedwelski, St. Ed’s.; and Walsh, Alumni I. Behind these first-stringers John McNulty, Dave McLaughlin, Bob Neff, John Lanahan, Jim Torpey, and Bud Ahearn could fill in very ably.
Results—July 20th.: Cavanaugh I, 15- . 15-15; Breen-Phillips, 7-10-5. St. Ed’s, •won on default from Dillon. Faculty, 15-15-15; Dillon, 8-7-5. Cavanaugh I, . 15-10-15-15; Alumni 1,10-15-8-12. Breen- / Phillips won on default from Dillon. Cavanaugh 1,15-15-15; St. Ed’s., 1-7-8.
Schedule: week of August 3rd—Mon-day: Walsh vs. Breen - Phillips and
16	’	.
Alumni I vs. Alumni II. Tuesday: R.O.T.C. vs. St. Ed’s and Cavanaugh vs. Dillon. Wednesday: Sorin vs. Breen-Phillips and Walsh vs. Alumni I. Thursday: Faculty vs. Alumni II and R.O.T.C. vs. Dillon. Friday: St. Ed’s vs. Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh I vs. Alumni II.
—Jack Denniston '
Cavanaugh, Alumni Teams Top Softball Standings
Cavanaugh and Walsh Halls featured the play in the interhall softball leagues last week, each team copping two contests. The complete results for the week are as follows: Cavanaugh 15, Breen-Phillips 4; Cavanaugh 13, NROTC 4; Alumni 6, Sorin 5; Dillon 15, Sorin 5; Walsh 10, Alumni 2; Sorin 16, St. Edward’s 15; Walsh 7, Breen-Phillips 3; Zahm III 7, Zahm I 0 (default).
With play for the first round completely finished in League II we find the strong Alumni II outfit on top with- a perfect record of five wins and no losses. In League II -with two more games yet to be played Cavanaugh and Alumni I share the lead with a record of five wins and one loss each. They will play this week for the championship and in the other remaining game on schedule Walsh and Dillon I, each having won four and lost two, ■will play to settle third place in the standings.
League Standings
LEAGUE ONE .	WON	LOST	PCT.
Cavanaugh				 5	1	.833
Alumni I 			 5	1	.833
Walsh 			 4	2	.667
Dillon I			 4	2	■ .667
Breen-Phillips 				 4	3	.571
N.R.O.T.C			 3	4	.429
Sorin			 1	6	.143
St. Edward’s			 0	7	.000
LEAGUE TWO	WON	LOST	PCT.
Alumni II			 5	0	1.000
Zahm III 				 4	1	.800
Zahm I						 3	2	.600
Zahm II 				....... 2	3	.400
Law. Club				 1	4	.200
Dillon II		........ 0	5	.000
. Straying from the straight news angle of the softball leagues, here are a few odds and ends of the week’s play. Breen-Phillips,. following the tradition of the. freshman Gold Coast were the first team to appear in uniform in the league thus .
. far. They wear a flashy gold T-shirt with a large U.N.D. on the front of it. However as yet they have been to no avail for since donning them the. boys . have lost two straight games and dropped in the league standings from a tie for first to fifth place.	■	-
It’s hard to see the connection between Blanchardsville, Wis. and Brooklyn—but -
“Cyclops” Meyers, hustling catcher of the Alumni I aggregation, tried to steal with a mate already aboard in the game with Walsh. .
Rumor holds that there is bad blood between Commissar Commissa and Big Bob Neff, Alumni II catcher, these days. It seems that Bob has taken very much to heart his failure to appear on Vince’s all-star team which was featured in last week’s Scholastic. .
Sight of the week—Dick Creevy slid- / ing into third base lighting his path ■with a red hot stogie.
Alumni III, headed by “Wahoo” Murphy will be an addition to league II in the second round of play.
Biggest disappointment of the season —Larry “Hook slide” Teamey’s failure to appear in the picture section of last week’s Scholastic after spending hours as a model sliding into second base.
The big Casey, sparkplug of the Cavanaugh outfit, is a Durocher and a Dykes rolled into one. Never yet has he failed to arouse the ire of the arbiter.
The schedule for next week: July 31, St. Edward’s vs. Walsh; Zahm II vs. Dillon II; August 3, Cavanaugh vs. Dillon I; Zahm II vs. Dillon II; August 4, NROTC vs. Alumni I; Zahm I vs. Dillon II; August 5, Sorin vs. Walsh; Breen-Phillips vs. Dillon; August 6, NROTC vs. Walsh.—Frank Ralph	‘
Tennis Summer Varsity
Handed Defeat by Gary
The championship of the Northern Indiana Tennis League momentarily slipped from the grasp of the Irish net team last Sunday when a strong Gary squad out-pointed them, 5-4.
This defeat ended the summer season for* the Irish giving them a record of six wins and one defeat. The reversal is their .first in a spring and summer schedule that included 16 dual meets. By winning Sunday the Gary club kept . within range of the Blue and Gold, but must win their remaining match against Elkhart to move into a first place tie. If they record a victory in this match, a play-off will be required to determine the champion of northern Indiana.
Last Sunday’s score of 5-4 is typical of the bitter fight staged by both teams before the scoreboard told the final result. George Biittner set the Irish in front = with a brilliant 6-8, 6-2, 6-4 win over Andy Pepa.. However, this was almost the end of the good news in the singles play. John Troup lost to Ray Lucht 6-4, 8-6; Fran Fudenski out-lasted Lyle Joyce 4-6, 6-0, 7-5; Harry Karlen conquered Fred Doutel 6-0, 6-4; and Collins defeated. Roy Grumbine 6-1, 6-3. Jim
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
Bill Moorhead
Breaking through a modest man’s nature is a hard task whether he he journalist or not but the fear of a pink slip made this columnist stick to it and thus follows the story of the life of that Kentuckian from Alumni Hall, Bill Moorhead.	-
Although a southern gentleman at this stage of life, Bill is in reality, a Yankee by birth, making his dad proud on Feb. 12, 1921, in Fairmount, W. Va. True Southerner that he is, the other man that claims that day as his birthday, had slipped Bill’s mind at the time of this interview.
Moving to Anchorage, Ky., Bill attended Anchorage high school and while at A.H.S. chose basketball, football, and golf to keep him busy outside of studying hours. He received two letters in each sport and made himself outstanding; on the Anchorage gridiron by being chosen All-Conference end in his senior year. The team on the whole must have been pretty good too, as they won the North ' Central Kentucky Conference championship when Bill was but a junior.
Of course golf is the main interest in this article, so we found out that Bill proved himself good enough to be made captain in his senior year. This team, like the football aggregation, proved its -worth by taking the State Intercollegiate for four years straight and the Southern Interscholastic during the last two. As to individual performance, Bill won the State Left-handed Tournament for two years and qualified for the State Amateur.	.	.
Continuing his education at Notre Dame, Bill has made Accounting his major subject and expects to wind up this training in December. Of course there is another institution, the Army, which will give Bill further training once he has left the Golden Dome. It is needless to say that Bill was a valuable asset to Father Holderith’s golf team this past season and also qualified for the National Intrecollegiates held at the South Bend Country Club. “It sure was tough competition” commented Bill.
The University of Louisville along with the University of Kentucky has been attended by other members of the Moorhead family. Bill’s brother, whom Bill claims to be the best in the family, gave his services to the Louisville institution while the female members of the Moorhead children amaze the golfers at the U.of K.	.
While he isn’t keeping the old “swingin’ ” aim limber on the Burke course or poring over some accounting problems, Bill keeps the Kentucky Club running from his position as president and helps the Commerce Forum as a senior director.
Deferred Classes Still
Open to Those Qualified
The office of Defense Coordinator of the University is continuing its' efforts to acquaint students with the requirements and opportunities for enlistment in the various branches of the armed services which will make possible a deferred classification until the completion of the student’s education. In connection with this effort, the Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., in his capacity as Defense Coordinator, issued bulletins early in the week making known just which branches were still open. Students were urged to make use of any opportunity to enlist, as a means of knowing definitely how long they may be able to continue in school, thereby enabling them to give their full attention to studies.
In a statement made shortly after the bulletins were issued, Father Trahey declared that “the time for draft deferments for students is definitely over.” He emphasized this as a further reason for enlisting in one of the available classifications. .	.
Up to the present time, the Navy has not as yet set a quota on enlistments. However, the Army Enlisted Reserve
Corps has issued its quota, and this is rapidly being filled. With about 800 to 1000 new students expected to enroll in the fall semester, it is regarded as highly probable that this and other quotas will be soon filled.	.
Father Trahey made a further announcement that a meeting of the deans of the colleges will be held in the near future. At this time plans will be made for the dean of each college to inform the students enrolled under him of the opportunities and requirements prevalent in the branches of the service for which the students of that particular college are qualified.
The results of this meeting and the plans adopted will be made known by the Scholastic at the earliest possible date.
National League Movie
on Tap Wednesday Night
A few weeks ago Washington Hall was filled with baseball-loving Notre Dame students as the American League’s movie, dedicated to Lou Gehrig, “The Ninth Inning,” was shown.
On August 5 through the perseverance of the Scholastic and the K. of C. the _ student body will get a change to see the ofiicial National League movie, “Safe at Home.” Directed by Ethan Allen and narrated by the nation’s top ballcaster, “Red” Barber, the movie will be of interest to all baseball fans. It will be shown in Washington Hall at 9:00.	.
The National League film is based on the batting and pitching performances of its stars and presents a film similar to that of the American League. The picture includes slow-motion pictures of such outstanding batters as Dolph Camil-li and John Mize.
Second Boxing Program
Coach Dominick Napolitano’s second summer boxing card was presented in the University gymnasium Wednesday night, July 29, with Sam Atwater, current 135-pound Bengal champ, meeting Joe Farrell in the headline bout.
Results: Tom Hessert, Breen-Phillips, decisioned John McNulty, Breen-Phillips. Norman Wolfson, Breen-Phillips, won on forfeit from Clint Wilkins. Ken Palmer knocked out Steve O’Rourke (1:43 of the second round). Frank Culhane, Cavanaugh, decisioned Walt Romito, Cavanaugh. Jack Leahy, Dillon, decisioned Bill McNamara, Walsh. Tom O’Conner, Cavanaugh, decisioned Jim Walpole, Breen-Phillips. Sam Atwater, Dillon, decisioned Joe Farrell, Cavanaugh. Harry Florence, Alumni, won by T.K.O. over Frank Kiely, St. Edward’s (1:05 of the . second round). Bill Huber, Dillon, knocked out Jack Whitely, Cavanaugh (0.52 of the second round).	.
' ' 17
For U- S. Navy Officers!
Neckband Shirts ............$2.25
Collars ___________________   25c
Ties—black _______________  $1.00
Socks—black  .......... 39c	& 55c
Quinn, surprising sophomore, kept the Irish in the race with a neat victory over Mike Kavolow by the scores of 6-1, 6-1. This left Gary a 4-2 lead at the end of singles play and put them in a position to win the match by taking one of the three doubles matches.
George Biittner and John Troup brought the Irish up to within striking distance with a 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 victory over Ray Lucht and Harry Karlen. Pepa and Collins cinched the meet for the Gary netters by setting down Fred Doutel and Lyle Joyce in straight sets 6-2, 6-4. Jim Quinn paired with another new-comer to the squad to take the finale 7-5, 6-8, 6-0.
Having completed their summer schedule the members of the team will enter the St. Joseph’s Valley Tennis championship starting tomorrow at Leeper Park in South Bend. Play will continue all next week and will present a great opportunity for tennis fans to see some fine tennis. Olen Parks, Irish number .two man of the undefeated squad of this spring, will be on hand in addition to a number of other college stars of this section.—Phil Keen
For Notre Dame Students!
Fine collection of slack suits and sport shirts—reduced for clearance.
See the $3.95 poplin slack suits now only $2.95
WYMAN’S
Mew'd-
On Michigan at Washington-next to the Bank.	-
Dillonites Still Lead In Interhall Tennis
Interhall tennis swings into the second half of its schedule this week as the . championship race tightens considerably.
Dillon I is riding on top with an unblemished record of three wins and no losses.
The “dark horse” & of the league, the Naval ROTC, scored
a major upset in pushing Dillon II out of the undefeated ranks by a 5 to 2 score last week. The Dillon squad got off to a fast start as Jim Quinn blasted Roy Grumbine 8-6, 6-1. The Navy boys decided this was enough and settled down to take the other four singles matches. Chuck Seghers topped Jerry O’Reilly . 6-1, 6-1; Frank Beaudine outlasted Jack Collins 3-6, 6-3, 6-4; Bob Bobbett defeated Al Nilles 6-1, 6-3; and Red Griffin won the deciding fourth point by taking a three-set match from- Eddy Ochoa 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.
Dillon I marched on with an easy 6 to 1 victory over Alumni. Ray O’Connell went all out before subduing John Doerr of Alumni 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. Jim Sheridan kept the sophs in the win column with a 6-1, 2-6, 6-1 over Julian Michel. Bud Fitzpatrick recorded Alumni’s single win by easily defeating Bill O’Leary 6-1, 6-1. Jack Greene and Vince Oppenheim closed out the singles matches with easy two-set victories. Dillon captured the doubles
WON LOST PCT. .......... 3	0	1.000
......... 2	1	.667
......... 2.1	.667 .1....... 2	1	.667
......... 12' .333
______ 1____2	.333 _________ 0	3	.000
with little trouble to record the decisive win over the seniors.
Cavanaugh’s capricious court cavaliers let it be known this week that they are going to make a strong bid for the championship. By stopping the Faculty 5-2 they moved into a three-team tie for second place with Dillon II and NROTC.
As Dillon II recovers from their loss inflicted by the Naval ROTC and attempts to get back in the win column against the Faculty, they do have one consolation. After all, who isn’t losing to our Navy these days?
League Standings
Dillon I_____ Dillon II ___ N.R.O.T.C____
. Cavanaugh .... Eaculty ............ Walsh ........ Breen-Phillips
Results: Walsh 5, Breen - Phillips 1; N.R.O.T.C. 5, Dillon II 2; Dillon I 6, Alumni 1; Cavanaugh 5, Faculty 2.
Schedule for the next two weeks:' August 4, Walsh vs. N. R. 0. T. C.; Alumni vs. Faculty. August 6, Cavanaugh vs. Dillon I. August 6,.Dillon II vs. Breen-Phillips. August. 11, N.R.O.T.C. vs. Alumni ; Dillon I vs. Dillon II. August 13, Faculty vs. Walsh; Cavanaugh vs. Breen-Phillips.—Phil Keen
Sullivan, Schleck Lead
Campus Golf Tournament
The low-scoring qualifiers continued to scramble on towards the finals of the . campus golf tourney this week as Everhart Schleck, medalist, and Dave Sullivan, the runner-up pounded their opponents to advance to the third round of the current campus tournament.
An early round favorite, Harry Wright, was left in the rear when Dan Hilgartner, senior
commerce student/ vaulted high after a weak start to defeat the varsity guard. Wright easily snatched the second, third, and fourth holes on the opening nine when he registered a par,. birdie, and bogie. Hilgartner lay three down chugging to the fourth tee. Dan’s 164 qualifying score looked very weak alongside Wright’s ten point lower tally and it seemed the Mineola mashie expert .would soon finish the Chicago lad but doubting Dan had different ideas. Three consecutive tied holes set him for a fighting
18
climax. He snagged the closing three holes and the match rested all even with the homecoming nine in view.
Wright, using the Leahy efficiency method, scored on the tenth and twelfth holes when Hilgartner lost himself in the rough. But Chicago had to be served and Hilgartner rambled through to even the match when he lanced his drive down the 14th fairway. They halved the 15th and Wright went to the fore again when he flagged a par on the 575 yard 16th. Hilgartner’s woods captured the 17th cup for him, again evening up the match. On the 20th green Hilgartner slipped a par four through as Wright’s putter failed him and lipped the opening to give him a bogie.
Hilgartner then fell before the six-shooter of Arizona’s Jim Allen as the Westerner rode wild and spared few shots to slay his Alumni buddy, 7 and 6.
Engineer Bill Snyder defeated two opponents in the early .rounds. Dillon’s “Tex” Crowley eliminated the long-driving Toledoan, one up on the 20th green in his next match.
In the lower bracket Dave Sullivan shoved Bob Bresak into the consolation ring by a 3 and 2 count. The upper bracket seems well fortified by the splendid work of medalist Schleck. The Milwaukee ace severely stomped two opponents during the week and is to meet Joe Moore, next. Jim Gallagher’s weekend tally of 74 downed J. M. Kelly, a determined freshman, one up.
Elongated Jim Allen’s sudden reversal of form pushes him high on the favorite list. Unable to hit his usual stride in the qualifying round the persistent Alumnite eliminated everyone. in his way as he settled down and started a sizzling climb. The fierce 7 and 6 drubbing he splashed in the face of Dan Hilgartner stands as the outstanding match of the tourney. Allen started his climb by whipping Bill' Witzel, 8 and 6.
9^ tk^e
Dining Room
ike J.<z£alle dl&tel
' You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. ana 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
The quarter-finals of the tourney are set for this week-end and the semi-finals are due August 1. The final match, a 36 hole affair, wall be played on August 2.
>	- —Bill Boss
Zahm Replaces St. Ed's in Interhall Baseball
Adjustments had to be made to compensate for the withdrawal of St. Edward’s Hall in the inter-hall baseball circuit this week and the priests and Brothers occupying Zahm Hall took upon themselves to defend the athletic prestige of the old A.C.
There are very few fellows trodding the tradition-scarred stairs of St. Ed’s and to muster a ball team during the dreary months is an impossibility. The substitute priests and Brothers are looking for a big round during the closing summer months.
The first round of the two round series has been completed but the league championship will not be decided before the turn of the week as the leading clubs, Alumni, Sorin, and the N.B.O.T.C. have to play off the tie games they were involved in. Alumni, -with two tie struggles and no defeats on the slate, has an excellent chance of surging through to take - ■ the pennant. None of the other tie contests will be played off as they do not figure in the championship fight. The St. Edward’s team, the little nine that was n’t there, had to forfeit all their contests. They had two victories to their credit but hall representatives hadn’t composed the squads that won the brace of games..
The second round of play is now in ‘ progress and the winner of the first round play-off will meet the second round victor late in August to decide the campus champions. The members of the win-. ning squad will be presented with gold-medals and the runner-ups will receive silver medals.
The second round promises a reorganization on the eastern front. In a special communique from Cavanaugh it has been learned that the Mudville boys are changing their name to Cavanaugh Caseys and expect to race, unmolested, to victory in the second round.
Holding true to their promise the Casey’s turned victors in their initial appearance of the second round. Squealing, “we wuz robbed,” the Brooklyn battery of Wolfe and Gibbons related tales of their one run defeats and poor performances on the diamond. “We just got special instructions from Durocher,” wailed Gibbons, “time to start the boss tells us. We don’t want to make it a runaway race but I believe we got what it takes.”
As Mudville cheered, the Casey’s shut (Continued on page’ 22) "
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
fl. flewebuf
OFFICIAL
NAVY STATIONERY AND
NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
19
PteAAlt&x,
Meet the Players
We were rather surprised at the number of students who objected to signing the All-Star petitions because they did not know many of the players. This might be expected from a new freshman, but from anyone else it is a shame. It might possibly be explained that secret practice has separated the students from the players, but even at that some people seem to know all of the team. For the benefit of those who have suddenly come to realize that they have missed something we are presenting a brief sketch of the men we hope to see on the All-Star team . . . Johnny Kovatch is a native of South Bend, in which city he teamed with Joe Laiber (both guards) and Steve Bagarus, a former halfback. He has spent most of his summers working for a certain automobile manufacturer . . . Paul Lillis is the big, good-looking gent with the smile. He was born in Fort Worth, moved to Buffalo, and then moved to Mt. Vernon, N. Y. He came here on a scholarship awarded by the New York City Alumni Association, and has been a leader in class, social life, and athletics. He mixed engineering with football (played tackle) and did a good job on both. He has a brother, Milan,. who is a tackle at N.Y.U. Another tackle who .may have impressed you though not as much as he impressed a player from Illinois, is Jim Brutz. In Warren, Ohio, he and Keith O’Rourke shared athletic fame in high school. He has spent his summers working as a camp counselor in the Warren steel mills. He is ’ now in the Naval Air Service in Florida.
. .. Herky Bereolos came from the same school as Wally Ziemba. He was captain of his high school team and starred on ours. He does a fine job of putting the shot . . . One of Coach Leahy’s famous masterful changes was Bernie Crimmins’ shift from fullback to guard. In high school as well as college Bernie was a leader in football, basketball, and baseball. He played on a team which won the High School Championship at Loyola in Chicago, and last fall was chosen on most of the many All-American teams. ... From Santa Ana, Calif., comes Bob Maddock, another guard and another reason for last season’s tough line. He
20
“RED" LONERGAN
was a team-mate of Bill Musick, one of the famous Musick brothers of U.S.C. . . . Bob Hargrave and Bernie Crimmins played on opposing teams in the National High School tournament at Loyola, Hargrave representing Reitz Memorial of Evansville. He did well for N.D. from the first time he got into a football game till he finished off against U.S.C. last year. He was a team-mate of last season’s most highly touted sophomore back, Billy Hillenbrand, in high school . . . When Steve Juzwik was in high school he wasn’t so good, or so it would appear. He had a weak line, but that made him get tougher. When he came down here he headed for the first string right away and became one of our leading ground gainers and defense men. We won’t forget him soon . . . Remember them, now? Freshmen and all other classes too, ought to watch these boys in the future.
, Will History Repeat Itself?
This week’s press releases tell us that Bob Snyder of Toledo, Ohio, is joining our coaching staff. He was one of the greatest punters and passers in Ohio U. history, being, remembered for the season in which he led Ohio to win over all, ineluding Illinois. After a year of pro ball with the Pittsburgh Eagles, the Americans, and the Cleveland Rams, he went to the Chicago Bears. Here he helped the Bears in a championship drive and was rated highly on the side by George Halas for his speaking ability. He always spoke at social gatherings for the Bears.
It will be interesting to see if there will be any more Cinderellas in this AllStar bunch. Remember Tuffy Lemans, Al Nichelini, and Bill Shepherd? . . . Almost invariably last season’s stars.
- failed to shine in the big game and someone else comes out. Just recall the records of Pug Lund, Bob Wilson, Bill Shakespeare, Marshall Goldberg, and Jay Berwanger and you’ll see what we mean. Berwanger was compared with Red Grange but he couldn’t make it that night. We think the reason is that college football doesn’t go on that night. Ber- . wanger was better than average in every requirement of a great college back but he wasn’t great enough in any one requirement. When a pro coach picks a starting team he does it with slide rules precision a man for every job. One must punt at least 60 yards on an average, one -must run almost as fast as any short
sprint track man; the quarterback must be a portable library of football knowledge arid a very good blocker; and the fullback must have enough power to run through a tough field without changing his course. In this style of ball there is . a greater demand for a specialist than in college ball.	.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
_	DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
.	825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. ' M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269	-
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
-	Leonard	A. Rose, D.D.S.	.
'	.Cyril F.	Rose, D.D.S.
.	Peter J.	Rose, D.D.S.
-623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
'	' '	’ . Registered Podiatrist	■
. FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
Navy Men!
GILBERT’S has a
new store in the DRAKE HOTEL
in CHICAGO
Florsheim Shoes
Complete Naval Uniforms
Dobbs Officers Caps
NAVAL CORNER MICHIGAN AVE. ( ’ AND LAKE SHORE DRIVE
BAILORS
IN THE DRAKE HOTEL ARCADE TELEPHONE. SUPERIOR 2200
Just two blocks North of Abbott Hall
While you studied and trained at Notre Dame you became familiar with the name GILBERT'S. You heard your superior officers talk of the excellent tailoring, of the speed of getting uniforms, and of other exceptional service that South Bend's largest store for men extended to Naval Officers. You can take advantage of this same service in Chicago by visiting Gilbert's at the Drake Hotel. ’	-