A new idea in smoking!
Salem refreshes your taste
Sibil







* menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new qualify to smoking.. .Springtime-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
* rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this . before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there’s an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
★ modern filter
. too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton. ..
FlLTER cigarettes
Created by B. J. Beyndda Tobacco CoaipaiQr •
November 21, 1958
- \ J ’* *
Scholastic
* Vol. 100 November 21, 1958 No. 8
Diace Quasi Semper Victwrus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, I Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
RON BLUBAUGH.________________.News	Editor
WALT RUDGE____________________Copy	Editor
1 JIM YOCH.-------------------.Features	Editor
* TEDDY THOMPSON._______________Sports	Editor
> r	PETER HASBROOK.—Business Manager
CONRAD SUSKI.________________Circulation
>	BOB FANCHER_________________Photography
;	DAVE SOMMER_________________Photography
' LYN RELPH.___________________Assistant	News
< ROY RUBELI._________________Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA______________Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK________________Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS._______________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA______________Assistant Features
. JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER.-Ass’t Features
CHUCK MILLER------------Assistant Features
TOM ROSE_________________Assistant Sports
- BOB SCHAEFER________________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN._______________Assistant Business
r FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C. ..Moderator
our public J
Last week, at the Associated Collegiate Press Conference in Chicago, we brought up a question which has been plaguing the Scholastic for some time, the influence of nbn-campus circulation on the content of the publications at Notre Dame. When we explained our situation some other representative announced that his schoolhas an alumni magazine which obviates this kind of restriction. Before we were able to explain further, another topic was introduced.	-	. .	.-■£
In formulating our problem, however, we became more acutely aware of the ” f situation even though we found no magic answer at the convention. The factis that we have both an alumni magazine and the Notre Dame Magazine:which is-/-> sent to the parents of Notre Dame students. In other schools these publications .r y free the campus newspaper from any critical pressure engendered by non-campus circulation. Why not here?	.	-
Also, since the Scholastic is supposedly a news magazine, it would seen that non-campus reader interest would be negligible. The news is quite important on ; campus since it concerns the day-to-day activities of a given week but can last Thursday’s lecture or next Monday’s Senate meeting have any meaning to people who receive their copies four, five, or six days after the magazine comes out? .
The circulation figures seem to bear us out. As of May 23, 1958 the total circu- : . lation of the Scholastic was 8,379. Of these, 5800 were delivered to graduate and undergraduate students, 975 were sent to national subscribers, 583 were distributed'-'I' among the faculty, 300 were given to University employees, 540 were miscellaneous complimentary copies, and 181 were used for advertising and exchange. ‘ The non- j 3 campus total, then, was 1,696. This total includes copies, given to companies as samples to encourage advertising and copies sent to other universities, many , of ■ which are probably disregarded and, eventually, destroyed. A conservative estimate' would discount-two or three hundred of these as having no influence whatsoever. This means that about 1,300 non-campus copies are read and a considerably fewer number are read critically. The Scholastic, therefore, is gravely influenced and .
Business staff: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim
Keough, Roger McMahon.
* News Staff: John Beall, Rich Burke, Wade Clarke, Mike Cummings, Bill Galvin, Bernie Hinds, John . Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Fred Reynolds, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss, Roy Zickl.
**nmhrr at Catholic School Ites Amodatioa and Amociated Collegiate Pre*. Rspruentrd for ■»-tioaol advertising by National Advertising Service, - Tae., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly duru* the ■ school year, except during vacation and exaasiaa-tian periods, at the University of Notre Dante. k‘ S^ncription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all mean-aoipts to the Editor, Boa 185, Notre Deese, ladbaa.
restricted in its criticism by less than 15% of its total circulation.	.
Also, we do our best to turn out-a* magazine of college caliber and we fed that we have succeeded. The Scholastic has consistently received the highest ratfrig given by the Associated Collegiate Press. Excuse us if we brag a little, but the point is this: We assume that all of our readers, non-campus included, are inteDi-. gent college level people. It is not unreasonable to expect that they will appreciate and sympathize with our problems. Anyone with the slightest amount of common . sense will realize that all is not sweetness and light in any community. In an educational community all should not be sweetness and light. The development ' and growth which takes place in the educational community will inevitably cause differences of opinion. Why, then, should we fear the criticism of intelligent non-campus readers who realize this basic educational fact and should, with open mind and/An'. unbiased view, approach any difference of opinion? We have no reason to fear their criticism. .	■	, .'‘3:^-
4 Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year. Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5, Oct. 31; No. 6, Nor. 7; No. 7, Nor. 14; Not 8, Nor. 21; No. 9, ' ; Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); Now 10, Dec. 12; No. ll, Jan. 16; No. 12, Jan. 23; No. 13, Fob. 13; No. 14, FA. 20; Now 15, Feb. 27; Now 16, March 6; No. 17, March 13; No. 18, Matth 20; Now 19, :{ April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May l; No. 22, Mey 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, Mey 22; Now 25,
, ....
November 21,1958	\
Finally, we have been toying with the idea of taking some sort of non-cainpas poll to see just how attentively the Scholastic is read. There is, of coun^ai^y;|y one way and this is it. We will make this request to everyone who is not dinieUy^ connected with.Notre Dame: If you are sincerely interested in this. University(and^ you must be to read this far) we would appreciate any and all comments^sugges^!-^ tions, or criticisms from you. If your influence is really as important as it is sup-f g ; posed to be we will expect* to hear your comments on the situation -which; we-hawsgl^
described—R. S.


On tapis ■&.
(By the Author of “Ratty Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek. )
THE GIFT HORSE
I know how busy you are—studying, going to class, catching night crawlers—but let me interrupt your multifarious activities—studying, going to class, helping old grads find their dentures after Homecoming—to remind you that busy as you are —studying, going to class, searching for meat in the dormitory stew—time and tide wait for no man, and the Yuletide will soon be upon us. Busy or not, we must turn our thoughts to Christmas shopping. Let us, therefore, pause for a moment in our busy schedules—studying, going to class, rolling drunks—to examine a number of interesting gift suggestions.
We will start with the hardest gift problem of all: What do you give to the person who has everything? Well sir, there follows a list of a half dozen gifts which I will flatly guarantee the person who has everything does not have:
1.	A dentist’s chair.
2.	A low hurdle.
3.	A street map of Perth.
4.	fifty pounds of chicken fat.
5.	A carton of filter-tip Marlboros.
6.	A carton of non-filter Philip Morris.
“What?” you exclaim, your young eyebrows rising in wild incredulity. “The person who has everything does not have cartons of filter Marlboros and nonfilter Philip Morris?” you shriek, your young lips curling mockingly. “What arrant nonsense!” you rasp, making a coarse gesture.
And I reply with an emphatic no! The person who has everything does not have filter Marlboros and non-filter Philip Morris—not for long anyhow—because if he has Marlboros and Philip Morris and if he is a person who likes a mild, mellow, fresh, flavorful cigarette—and who does not? eh? who does
Your gift problem, is no problem if you will give Marlboros to your filter smoking friends and Philip Morris to your nonfitter smoking friends. Both come in soft pack or flip-top box; both are made by the sponsor of this column.
6
not?—why, thenhedoesn’t have Marlboros and Philip Morris; he smokes them. He might possibly have a large collection of Marlboro and Philip Morris butts, but whole Marlboros and Philip Morris? No. An emphatic no!
Now we take up another thorny gift problem: What do you buy your girl if you are broke? Quite a challenge, you will agree, but there is an answer—an ingenious, exciting answer! Surprise your girl with a beautiful bronze head of herself!
Oh, I know you’re not a sculptor, but that doesn’t matter. All you have to do is endear yourself to your girl’s roommate, so she will be willing to do you a favor. Then some night when your girl is fast asleep, have the roommate butter your girl’s face—quietly, so as not to wake her—and then quietly pour plaster of Paris on top of the butter and then quietly wait till it hardens and quietly lift it off—the butter will keep it from sticking—and then bring you the mold, and you will pour bronze in it and make a beautiful bust to surprise your girl with!
Remember, it is important—very important—to endear yourself to the roommate, because if anything should go wrong, you don’t want to be without a girl for the holiday season.
•	© 1958 Max Shulman
Dear Editor:
I am in complete disagreement with the writer of last week’s Repercussion who was so concerned with standards, principles, and diet of literature read by the student body.
Apparently from Mr. Halloran’s viewpoint, student Senators should not be vulnerable to criticism. Moreover, he seems to consider it in bad taste to openly denounce the practice of misrepresenting time facts, and publicly acknowledging where the fault lies.
Every public office holder is subject to attack (as well as praise) from both the press and his opposition. This is a PRECEDENT, if not a principle, which has been set long before the publication of the Scholastic. Is this precedent vindicable? I would say yes. I believe it will keep the Senate and each individual member from becoming inattentive.
I honestly hope that you stay in keeping with this precedent upon which the Scholastic will have a future with the student body.
R. K. Jenkins, 212 Howard
Editor, Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana Dear Sir:
I think it necessary to elucidate an error which appeared in your magazine of November 14. In an article written by Jerry Kriegshauser concerning the November 20 recital of James Bastien, the following statement was made: “. . .in the recent past, Notre Dame has not been fortunate enough to have in residence a distinguished artist who would take on, in addition to his teaching duties, the challenging and timeconsuming burden of public performance.”
This statement is completely false. I have been a student in the music department for six years, having received my undergraduate degree in 1957, and having begun graduate work the following year. During these six years (some of which must be considered to be the “recent past”) I have witnessed numerous faculty recitals. Mr. Daniel Pedtke has given an organ recital yearly. Before his death in 1957, Mr. Carl Mathes played several piano recitals as well as joint recitals with Dr. Charles Biondo. In 1957 Rev. Patrick Maloney played an organ recital. A look into the backgrounds of these men, particularly those of Mr. Mathes and Mr. Pedtke, will reveal more than ample qualifications for their being dubbed “distinguished artists.” This, coupled with the fact that these men are, or have been, faculty members of the music department, seems to disprove rather fully the statement quoted above.
Sincerely yours, John Rockne Guinn 1103 N. Notre Dame Avenue South Bend, Indiana
The Scholastic
a chapter in american folklore
by CHARLES BOWEN
A couple of weeks ago we had the privilege of witnessing an epic occasion in the annals of Midwestern anthropolo-‘ gy. A nearly savage tribe, from the uni charted wilderness to the north of Chicago, agreed to hold one of its traditional ceremonials in the city at a comfortable, modem hotel, for the benefit of scientific observers like myself, many of ‘ whom have in the past set out with starry eyes and notepads in our hands * (just the note pads, of course) and been forever swallowed up in the inscrutable North Shore Country.
। < The ritual I attended is a very impor-I tant one in the life of the savages.
* Theirs is a thoroughly matriarchal society, from which men are carefully excluded by the Guardians, a group of elders distinguished for their wisdom and - ferocity. Yet it is the ambition of every member of the tribe, once she has completed her training course and been given i the token (a scroll which confers on her the A. B., or Avaricia Baccalaureo) to set out into the alien world on the other
• side of the wall and snare, as soon as possible, a male from another tribe, pre-r ferably one with a great deal of “bread.” (This untranslatable term apparently refers to economic well-being in the savages’ quaint cosmology.) The great disparity between the goal of each tribeswoman and the life she is forced to lead while in the power of the Guardians is apparent. A young woman who has been
1 trained for four years in the Spartan virtues required by the Guardians is hardly prepared to capture a male when she has never seen one or had a chance to learn his habits. This is important, ~ as many of the males are extremely wily, ■ especially those who have the most “bread” and are hence most desirable.
Taking all this into consideration, the tribe ages ago instituted a gathering known as a Tea Dance. It takes its name *	f rom an archaic beverage which was an-
ciently consumed at the gathering but 2 "v novr makes only a ritual appearance. To the gathering are summoned eligible males who are attracted by the bait, in spite of their traditional cunning. They are then exposed to the fledgling tribeswomen who have a chance to practice
their huntsman’s art before the chase begins in earnest.
I found the young women to be generally schizophrenic, torn between the demands of tribal society: i.e., that they be clean, well-scrubbed, dress alike, and love one another, and the demands of the chase which, because of subversive rumors among themselves, they take to be that they be sultry, bewitching, better dressed than their companions, and in bitter and even vicious competition with one another. Most of them, under the influence of this necessary ambivalence, swing too far toward the antitribal routine, and outdo themselves in being sultry and bewitching. Their methods are many and varied. They compete in the style of their finery, a ceremonial garment called a sack, by each trying to see that her sack holds the same merchandise in a superior manner. They also display their various accomplishments in the way of wisdom and grace by holding impromptu contests in eyebrow-arching, cliche-inflection, and the making of ritual gestures with lighted cylinders of tobacco, from which they occasionally inhale smoke and try to exhale it in as poised a manner as possible. The males, in their turn, endeavor to demonstrate their desirability by uttering loud noises and consuming various giain beverages with greater speed or stamina than their companions. The young women, as the ceremony goes on, catch the spirit of the thing and soon begin uttering cries of their own. It is a poignant and delightful experience to witness these youthful attempts at social expression; however, a little too much of it can give one quite a headache, and so I retired before the ceremonies were concluded, to witness on TV a competition in a far-off place between bears and rams.
* * *
The residents of S— Hall (whose name I am forbidden to mention) would like me to express their thanks to the ghostly Mr. Geist for showing them so cleverly the road to salvation. Who would have thought of naming a hero “Anatopolis?” In decent shamefacedness the residents of the hall have voted to devote all future Saturday morning
gatherings to lectures on moral improvement, and have formed a compulsory weekly hall meeting devoted to discussing The Really Deep Things in Life. Careful checking revealed that there actually was a lot of loose talk going on about student (there I go again) Student Government, and the offenders have been banished. They are also petitioning the rector for permission to drain the gin and vermouth out of the coin machine ' and replace it with sarsaparilla, but his assent is doubtful. A special vigilance committee has been formed to prevent another outbreak of Anarchy like the one Mr. Geist so kindly warned them about. Thanks again, Mr. Geist.
I would like to express my personal compliments to the young man who painted solid black chemises on all the naughty Hatful of Rain posters. .
The University Theatre is to be complimented, however, for not scissoring more lines than were necessary from their recent production. We can appreciate their courage when we contemplate the recent production of Oedipus Rex at St. Sophia’s Academy for the Ugly. After a great deal of deliberation, it was decided that the play was not fit entertainment for young ladies the way it stood, so the ending had to be changed. Just as Oedipus is about to blind himself, the old shepherd reveals that he is actually Laius in disguise, and wasn’t really killed at all, but was just playing ’possum, because he wanted to retire and get out of the rat race. Then a messenger arrives with the news that Oedipus’ marriage to Jocasta was invalid, because the priest at Delphi hadn’t been properly licensed at the time the ceremony was performed. Although the result is some distance removed from Sophocles, my correspondent, Miss Delight Repski, informs me that it made for good clean fun all ’round.
Students in Badin Hall last week found that they were able to read Escape by the light of the sunset. Sensing something unusual, they rushed to their windows and discovered a large crater in the ground next to the library. It has been a source of speculation all over the campus ever since, but nobody can remember what used to be there. Pity.
7
November 21, 1958
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
SERVICES
TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon Publications, Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS___________________
CONVAIR, Undergraduate Engineers, Graduate Physics and Math. Dec. 3. 4, see page 17.
COVER
Fine arts major, Joe McDonnell returns to the SCHOLASTIC cover this week with his version of the traditional turkey carving. Joe’s previous work was the October 17 drawing of Andre Segovia which we consider one of our best covers this year.
Joe’s depiction of a turkey wielding the carving knife over the impeccably attired (thought headless) figure of a gentleman is a little different approach to the holiday.
Nave a of FUN!
Travel with SITA Unbelievable Low Cost
9

26th Year
Europe
60 Days X $645
Orient >43-65 Day* Bmb $998 \ Many tours incluao J	col/sgs crtdil.
jAJso low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around Hie World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent I ■ jflk 332 So. Michiyon Aw. OU mm. inc.aicojo 4, HA 7-2557
4'1
•>
I
KODL KROSSWORD No. S
ACROSS
1. Hug essentials
5. You get a kick out of this
8. Frolic
12.	Romantic satellite
13.	Rage
14.	A mighty long time
15.	Kind of psychology
17.	Fellow with inherited traits, naturally
18.	Giri’s nickname
19.	Staunch
21_____off
23_____Fresco or
-----Dente
24	.’At's---e
25	. Coeds’ extracurricular subjects
29.	Bearlike dutch
30.	Horaebacked
31.	Summers in France
32.	An old Latin Une
33.	Ask the waiter for
34.	Hen-party sound effect
38.	Mikado character
39.	Potpourri
40.	Queuing up at the apiary?
44. Kind of printing 45. Be in hock for
46.	Barber-shop refrain
47.	Even -
48.	Catnip
49.	Zane —
DOWN
1.	Doctors’ organization (abbr.)
2.	Filch
3.	Cobra's adversary
4.	How about lighting up a
(3 words)
5.	Depict
6.	Period of time
7.	Solidifies in a wobbly way
8.	Kool gives you a choice:------ 	(3 words)
9.	Above
10.	Patch
11.	Victim
16. Concerning
20.	Scot’s hat
21.	Yielded
22.	Leave out
26.	Piccadilly type
27.	Slight lead
28.	Do a fast bum
32. Descriptive of Kools, naturally
34.	Bottleneck custodian
35.	Plant that sounds like 26 Down’s greeting
36. Specify
37. Black
38______Kool
41.	Lamb who’s the same backwards
42.	English river that’s the same backwards
43. Porker’s purlieu
5	6	
13		
		
	9	10	11
			
t.			
			
SwHch-fiomtiO J < -to Snow Fresh )
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feds smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience
in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mild, mild menthol...for a cleaner fresher taste all through the day!
See answer on page 12
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE—REGULAR. OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
KODL
FILTER
with
K®L
w,77;w.v.w ‘
The Scholastic
MARDI GRAS TO AWARD LINCOLN AS CLIMAX TO 1959 FESTIVAL
Ball Planned for North Dining Hall Friday, February 6; Jazz Concert Negotiations with Dave Brubeck Begin
*	On the evening of February 10, the 1959 Mardi Gras will reach its high point. The suspense of the nation-wide contest will be resolved and the winner’
*	of the 1959 grand prize announced.
This year’s winner will be given the keys to a 1959 Lincoln Capri.
The night of the drawing will be the * climax of several nights of excitement and entertainment which will commence with the Mardi Gras Ball on Friday evening, February 6. The ball will be * held in the new University Dining Hall on the north side of the campus.
*- This year the executive committee of the Mardi Gras is negotiating for an extra attraction to further enhance the week end’s activities. On Saturday, they > hope to have the Dave Brubeck Quartet present an afternoon jazz concert in the $ Notre Dame Field House. Immediately after the concert is over, the Mardi Gras ► Carnival will begin amid a scene of New Orlean’s famous streets. The carnival » will run for three nights and is planned
1	“COME FLY WITH ME”
H	1959 Lincoln to be given away at the Mardi Gras
^November 21, 1958
to provide an exciting time each evening.
With its goal of $35,000, the Mardi Gras festival is one in which the entire student body is asked to participate. Their support is a large factor in contributing to the success of the function.
The proceeds from the Mardi Gras will be distributed in three main areas. Heading the list is the Student Government Scholarship Fund. The LaFortune Student Center and the Campus Charity Chest also receive support from the festival.
This newly initiated scholarship fund will provide three to four full-tuition, four-year scholarships for incoming freshmen.
Any additional money in this fund will be held in a trust fund and given , to outstanding and deserving upperclassmen in the form of partial scholarships.
As in the past, a portion of the proceeds goes to the Student Center. The money will provide for its maintenance and the periodic reupholstering of furni
ture. Extensive redecorating of tins . building, wherein Notre Dame’s social life is centered, is also planned.
Remaining proceeds from the Mardi Gras will be given to the Campus Charity Chest which is a blanket charity from which several national and local charities, such as the South Bend United Fund and the foreign missions, draw support.
The Mardi Gras committee hopes that * “each student will take this opportunity to go all out for the 1959 Mardi Gras” by getting out during the Christmas vacation and disposing of the two contest books. This is a perfect time to “let your friends back home in on a chance to win the beautiful Lincoln Capri” and also to help support a very worthy cause.
Contest books will be distributed to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students by the hall presidents during the week of December 15. Collections will be made on January 14, 28, and February 4.
As in the past, there will be a student automobile for the Notre Dame student selling the winning chance and for a girl from across the Dixie there will be a complete spring wardrobe to be chosen by the girl herself. ■
Pope Elevates O'Hara With Boston's Cushing
Archbishop John Francis O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University of Notre Dame was among the 23 prelates raised to the cardinalate in the first consistory of the pontificate of Pope John XXIII. Archbishop O’Hara, currently archbishop of Philadelphia, was president of Notre Dame from 1934 to 1939. Before becoming president on the death of his predecessor, Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.CL, Father O’Hara served as dean of the commerce school, prefect of religion, and vice president of the University.
Archbishop O’Hara is the first member of the Congregation of Holy Cross to receive the cardinal’s red hat. The archbishop, now 70 years old, was ordained a Holy Cross Father in 1916. After serving a brief period at a Phila-, delphia parish, he returned to Notre. Dame where he was named first dean of the College of Commerce which he helped found.
As president of the University, Archbishop O’Hara worked to develop the Graduate School and to extend'the Notre Dame scholarship and research program.
While Archbishop O’Hara was president of the University, several familiar campus buildings were erected. Among them were the Rockne Memorial, the Post Office, Breen-Philips, Cavanaugh, and Zahm Halls.
Cardinal-designate O’Hara, a native of Indiana, was one of the two Americans named to the Sacred College. The other honored prelate is Archbishop. James Cushing of Boston..	.
COMMITTEE ON MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
Bill Zamarelfi, Ken Hiegel, Joe Higgins, John Bellibeau
First Marriage Institute Discussion Planned;
Fr. Hesburgh to Open Series on Wed., Feb. 4
Joe Higgins, chemical engineer from Flossmoor, Ill., has been selected chairman of the annual Marriage Institute. The institute will be held this year on Wednesdays from February 4 to March 11. ...
Active in student affairs, Higgins is the vice president of the Y.C.S., business manager of the Technical Review, and chairman of the Freshman Advisory Program for the Engineering College. He is also Y.C.S. representative to the Student Senate and business manager of the Engineering Open House.
The discussions will open February 4 with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., whose topic will be “Selecting a Marriage Partner.” Mr. and Mrs. Bart Farrell will speak on “The Psychology of the Male and Female” on February 11.
February 18, Rev. A. L. Meloche, spiritual director of the Holy Family Retreat House in Harrow, Ont., will discuss “Sanity and Sex.” Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd of Wilmette, Ill., will speak on “Love in Marriage”; on February 25, Dr. Louis B. Leone of Skokie, Ill., will give “The Doctor’s Viewpoint,” March 4.
“Success in Marriage” will be the subject of the closing talk on March 11, which will be given by Mr. and Mrs. John Evans of Notre Dame. Following the discussions will be a question and answer period.
Of the six speakers, four are returning from last year. Father Hesburgh opened last year’s Institute, and Father Meloche, Dr. Leone, and the O’Dowd’s were also here.
January 12 and 13 will be the only
dates for ticket sales to the Institute, which is to be held in Washington Hall except for two of the talks. The February 11 and February 18 talks will be in the Engineering Auditorium.
The purpose of the talks is to give the Catholic viewpoint on marriage and to express the duties and obligations acquired by those entering the marriage contract. They will be open to all seniors and to those students anticipating marriage in the near future.
Higgins’ committee will consist of Bill Zarelli, a commerce major from Warren, Ohio, secretary; John Bellibeau, history major from Lewiston, Me., publicity chairman; and Ken Hiegel, aeronautical engineer from Conway, Ark., ticket sales chairman.
CENTER TRAINING PROGRAM SET
Freshmen and sophomores interested in applying for the LaFortune Student Center House Committee Training Program should have applications in before November 26.
Interested applicants must submit a letter stating interest, qualifications, and reasons for applying. The address is:
Chairman, House Committee LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, Indiana.
The object of the program, which leads to managerial positions, is to train freshmen and sophomores in the policy and operation of the Student Center.
Law Students Beaten By Chicago U. Group
Moot Court contestants Robert Mone, Altero Alteri, and Dana Devoe traveled -to Chicago last week only to lose in the first round of competition to a team of law students from the University of Chicago.
The three left Notre Dame last Thursday afternoon and returned Friday. There were to be three elimination rounds, but the team was disappointed the first time out.	,
Arguments were held in the federal and county courthouses before a group of 36 Cook County and Chicago judges. A panel of justices from Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin Supreme Courts heard the final round Saturday evening at the U. S. Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals.	,
Teams that won first and second places in the regional competition will represent this region in the national compe- ' tition next month in New York. Last , year Notre Dame placed first in the re- ’ gional competition. The national win- , ner last year was the University of | Pennsylvania.	|
National competition is conducted each year by the Young Lawyers Committee ; of the Bar Association of the City of ; New York as a means of enabling law students throughout the country to match their courtroom abilities against one another. Ninety-two law schools from coast to coast have entered teams ‘ in this year’s arguments.
The fictitious case argued, United States vs. Akkro Corp., concerns an indictment against a corporation for violating the Federal Anti-Corruption Act by expending corporate funds in connection with a senatorial election campaign. The appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States raises questions of current interest relating to the participation of corporations, unions, and other organizations in political action and involves a determination of Constitutional issues.
The second round of the 58-59 season will be held during the second semester. During this round a new method will be introduced into the competition.
Military Awards Earned By Army ROTC Students
Seventeen senior cadets of the Army ROTC have officially received the award of Distinguished Military Student.
Factors in determining the awards are leadership, academic ability, and achievement.
The recipients of the award were: Paul Anderson, Dean Barelli, Bill Barrett, Dave Berg, Al Ecuyer, Harvey Frem, Tom Gill, Doug Gonzales, John Martin, Ed Murphy, Hugh Murphy, Steve Pietrowicz, Herb Riband, Frank Suriano, John Thurin, John Treanor, and Louis Von Hagen, and Brigade Commander, Rich Cornell. *
10
The Scholastic
News Briefs
Henry Barnhard, vice-president of the Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation, Lima, Ohio, has been appointed to the University’s Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts.
Twenty-six nationally prominent figures from the world of business and the fine arts are members of the advisory group which held its fall meeting last Friday and Saturday.
Barnhart was graduated from Notre Dame in 1923 and received a master’s degree from Harvard University the following year. He has held positions of increasing responsibility with companies of the Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton group since 1928.
He served as vice-president of the Construction Industry Manufacturers Association in 1957. He is also a director of the Power Crane and Shovel Association, the National Bank of Lima, and the Lima Public Library.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor at the University, was the speaker on CBS radio’s “Church of the Air” program last Sunday. Father O’Brien spoke on “Love: the Great Commandment.”
Appearing with him on the program was the Moreau Seminary choir directed by Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C. The musical portion of the broadcast included “Ecce Sacerdos Magnus” by Witt; Vittoria’s “Due Seraphim”; a Gregorian setting of “Alleluia de Profundis”; “Ave Verum” by Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.; and Bach’s “Now Thank we All Our God.”
A conference for the officials of the federal prison system is being held this week at the Morris Inn. Wardens and other officers of the 28 federal institutions and a number of nearby prison officials are among those attending.
A number of professors from the country’s leading universities will address the group on topics pertaining to prison management. Included among these topics are such things as new inmate training and treatment trends in view of recent research in this field.
A special exhibit of prints owned by Boleslaw Szczesniak, professor of history at Notre Dame, is being held in the South Bend Art Center on Washington Avenue.
Included in the collection of 50 prints and etchings are some eighteenth and nineteenth century Japanese and Spanish woodcuts. The prints were collected by Prof. Szczesniak during his extensive travels in Europe and Asia.
Wednesday night has been set for the Chicago club dance at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago. The Sal “Tiny” Hicks Orchestra will play from 9 p.m. until 1 aan. Tickets may be purchased on campus from the hall representatives for $4.50 or at the
November 21, 1958
Fr. Fichter Publishes Study of Grade School
Parochial School: A Sociological Study, a book by Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., will be published tomorrow by the University Press. Father Fichter is head of the sociology department at Loyola University of the South at New Orleans.
Father Fichter concludes in his book that pupils in a typical parochial school have little class consciousness, shy away from the opposite sex, and belong to a system which is less bureaucratic and pennits teachers greater- freedom than the average public school.
On the other hand, there is better communication between parents and public school teachers. And the public school, like few parochial schools, makes an attempt to foster a social adjustment between its boys and girls.
The book is the result of a year’s research conducted while the Jesuit priest was a visiting professor at the University. Father Fichter and a team of researchers observed the day-to-day operations of a parochial school and a nearby public school in a midwestern city.
At that time he discovered that elementary school children were apparently too young to understand racial or class distinctions. He found also that pupils invariably sought friendships within their own sex group, seldom going on pre-arranged dates, and they gained more initiative as they climbed the social ladder.	'
The public school is hampered by “a rigid, stratified, complex organization,” whereas the “parochial school seems like an island of freedom with a relaxed and informal atmosphere.”
However, the public school’s organizational structure pennits “an overwhelmingly larger percentage” of interviews between parents and school personnel. Also, the teacher shortage in the public school system is less acute.
door for $5. The chairman of the dance is Bill Hickman from Oak Park, Ill., a member of the College of Arts and Letters.
• • •
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., in an article in the present issue of Ave Maria, declares, “The three great enemies of Sunday rest are work, dissipation, and boredom.”
In writing about the problem of how to spend Sunday, Father Putz, professor of religion at the University and president of Fides Publishers, explains that the three enemies are continually present in our society and we cannot determine how to spend Sunday unless we “rediscover what Sunday is all about.”
“Sunday must liberate our spirits,” concludes Father Putz, “and Sunday must restore our mental equilibrium.” One way to do this he says is to “oppose the three enemies of Sunday rest with worship, joy, and fraternal fellowship.”	—
Red Government Alters Basic Education Theory
The Russian education system which has been held up to American educators as an ideal to be copied is soon to undergo drastic changes. This was the statement of Professor John Fizer of the modem language department who spoke on Russian education in conjunction with National Education Week.
Professor Fizer, a native Russian, pointed out that Premier Nikita Krushchev has completely revised the old educational system for the coming yeA This revision has attracted very little attention in the United States even though it is a complete reversal in Russian education policy.
From now on, Soviet children will be given an education which will train them to follow in their father’s .footsteps. Thus a farmer’s son will be trained to do agricultural work and a bureaucrat’s son will be trained in the professions.
The more intelligent students will be allowed to take advanced study but only ' in the trade for which they are being prepared. Sons of proletariat workers will thus be prevented from attending Russia’s universities. This system is a reversal from the previous system which allowed higher education for any student capable of handling such studies.
The reason for the change, said Prof. Fizer, was the need for more agricultural and industrial workers to fill Russia’s definite need for a larger working force. The birth rate in the Soviet Union since the war has been unusually low, and the government needs more people to operate its economic machine.
State Department Announces Scholarship Application Date
The State Department has announced that the date of application for the Inter-American Cultural Convention Scholarships has been extended until January 15, 1959. Requirements for application are: United States citizenship at time of application, bachelor degree or its equivalent before beginning date of grant, knowledge of the language of the host country, and good health.
Some of the countries which are taking part in this program are Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela, ■ and Chile. The expenses covered are transportation, tuition, maintenance, and, in some cases, incidental expenses provided by the host government. Applications may be acquired at the offices of the various departments.
WE’RE SORRY TO SAY . . .
that we won’t be with you next week. If you can bear it until after Thanksgiving we will have THE FOOTBALL REVIEW ready for you December 5. As in the past it will contain the complete dope on Fighting Irish football.
11
“MUMTURBOW
^^PVOMBVRMT
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES 207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5/77
tyrivts LIBRARY ui BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Fr. Zatko Discusses Poland After First-hand Experience
Postwar Poland was the topic of Father James Zatko’s talk to the second meeting of the new History club.
Father Zatko, who spent the summer in Poland doing research, told of the miserable poverty which the Polish people have been forced to suffer under Russian domination.
Polish city populations barely make enough to eke out an existence. Ordinary articles such as a pair of shoes cost a whole month’s wages. Rural populations live in an even worse condition as they attempt to resist Communist collectivization.
The government for its part tries to exploit the people as much as possible, he said, removing all of Polish heavy industrial equipment to the U.S.S.R.
The Church in Poland is making a valiant stand against the government’s encroachment. Last summer the Communists invaded the Polish National Shrine at Czestochowa. Father Zatko said the Poles will fight for their belief, and that provocations such as this
raid could be the spark that might ignite another Hungary.
Despite all of their difficulties though, the Poles are thankful for the end of the days of the Stalinist secret police, and are thankful for the new “relaxed” policy.
The history club also adopted the name Herodotians and a new constitution. Another meeting will be held in two weeks.
KQDL ANSWER
□□□0 BUS □□□□
□ebb nsa
IA

OfTlMlil
A
o E
I 1J
V E R
E^ N1
R E
GTO
Vil
EQ
AILIEIS
M
C
□EHS
C O O R
BBS BEBE
E
IE 001
IE EC2I
IB EBI
I
N E R
E. X E
S
Switch -from Hots -Io Snow Resh KGDL
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave! regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won't dry up before you've finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try Old Spice Smooth Shave!	JOO
•och
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
12
The Scholastic
Review . . .
THE CONCERT
at the Festival of the Arts
by G. P. Scarpia
9
[To promote culture is not only good, * it is necessary. To promote culture for one week out of a year seems to be ap-1 proaching- the attitude of a defeatist.
Not that this is the moving force behind the University’s annual Festival of the I1	Arts; this is just the naked reality.
The only balm applied to the perennially non-cultured Notre Dame crowd g	turned musical Wednesday evening in
|	the University Art Gallery with a per-
il^ formance given by the orchestra of the I 1958-formed Pei* Musica Society. For the first time since its formation (and : ■ probably the last until next year) the j ’ professional music group played to a ! full audience composed of more than mu* sic majors, bearded pseudos, and religious.
The program was one of widely varied styles, and was played, for the most part, not only effectively but musically. The Mozart overture which opened the evening’s entertainment confirmed the postscript to the program, which announced that the Per Musica Society “is composed wholly of professional musi* cians”. The five-movement “Golden” Sonata of Henry Purcell lifted itself J from the stringed instruments to stand I remarkably polished before the listener’s j ear. The Bach chorale reminded me of 4 a Baroque organ bellows wheezing with I not much more reason that that it is L some two hundred years old.
1 The orchestra reached a pinnacle of 1	extremely high proportions in the
I	Vaughan-Williams Suite. To achieve perI	fection in art has been said to be im-
j	possible, and so it was not done, but
*	what was reached in the exhilarating
I	tempo, sweetly-nasaled oboe and mellow
. French horn deserves much remem-
'	brance.
t An overture for flute, clarinet, horn, •	and strings composed (in four days) by
Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., head of the Department of Music, began the second 4 half of the program. It proved, in spite of a somewhat dry middle section, that f we are fortunate indeed to have a musician of this genuine creative ability on our campus.	■
A Scriabin etude (originally for piano) allowed the audience to let its mind wander to the Telemann viola con-
certo, in which Rocco Germano played the viola with a tone so beautifully warm it made you forget that the composition is two movements too long. Mr. Germano, who received his Bachelor of Music degree from Notre Dame, is a musician who has to let you know that he is one, by the sheer force of his solid talent.
A Hymn and Fuguing Tune by the contemporary composer Henry Cowell, with a section of the fugue based on (or stolen from) Gregorian Chant, led the way to the final number, a Toccata generally attributed to Frescobaldi which, perhaps because of its placement on the program, generally contributed nothing.
The orchestra was directed by Dr. Charles Biondo of the Department of Music, with Mr. Germano, of Saint Mary’s College.
Thus we have one night, and one good night, of musical culture. That there will be more nights this year is a fact. That they will be poorly attended is something you don’t have to accept on faith — it’s a revelation.	.
PREVIEW . . .
Concert and Lecture Series first presentation . . .
Theodore Ullmann, Pianist
For the first offering of its 1958-59 season, the Concert and Lecture Series presents Theodore Ullmann, a well-known concert pianist who was enthusiastically received at his last Notre Dame appearance three years ago. Mr. Ullmann has given concert performances on every continent and in each of the 48 states, scoring particular success in many colleges and universities. Not only does he possess over 20 competitive
awards in music, but he has also earned several music and academic degrees, and is an alumnus of nine different universities, including the Sorbonne and Juil-liard School of Music. He is also an 11-times-decorated veteran of five years of service in the United States Army.
His concert this time will include pieces by . Bach, Beethoven, Chopin, Brahms, Debussy, and Prokofieff. The Sonata in F minor by Johannes Brahms will be the featured work of the evening. It is a .reflective work, the most serious of the three Brahms sonatas. Symphonic in concept and an extended sonata in form, it makes great demands upon the artist’s ability in tonal shading. It is considered a major work in piano literature.	.
The powerful Scherzo in B minor by Chopin will also be presented. The music here covers a whole range of emotions — it is sometimes sombre, sometimes ironic, often becoming genuinely lyrical. Such playing on the emotions is characteristic of the music of late romanticism. Beethoven’s difficult Andante Favori was originally intended by the
Congratulations to Father Hager for the very successful premiere of his overture.
composer to be the slow movement of his Waldstein Sonata, but it is now played as a separate piece. Many students will no doubt recognize it as one of the more often-heard classical piano pieces.
One of the most exciting compositions to be rendered is the Suggestion Diabo-lique of Prokofieff, a characteristically ironic composition full of boldness and energy. As a typical contemporary work, it is marked by a clever use of dissonance, and it will be interesting to compare this work with the Third Sonata of the same composer, performed by Mr. Bastien in his recital last night. American music will be represented by a piece entitled Mountain Tune by Keeney.
Mr. Ullmann will present these works in concert next Friday evening, Novem-. her 28, in Washington Hall. The program will begin at 8:15 pan., and tickets will be on sale from 3:30 to 8:30 pan. next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday (Nov. 26-28) at the Washington Hall box office. Prices for students and faculty are $.75 for balcony seats, and $1.00 for orchestra. Phone reservations may be made by calling Extensions 606 or 608.
—by Jerry Rimski-Korsakov Kriegshauser
The Features staff hopes to devote its entire section of the December twelve issue to stories and poems centered around Christian Christmas themes. Manuscripts should be brought to room one hundred twenty-seven, Pangborn, before December seven.
November 21, 1958
ON THE SIDEWALK or HOW BEAT IS MY GENERATION
by Jim Rose
Dean and me were pedaling our tricycles at our usual high SPEED past Gramarcy’s Delicatessen which is in the middle of the block. The day was an applewhiteaftemoon, like vanilla ice cream that’s laid around in the dish too long, and me and Dean were rolling along the sidewalk, passing the verdant trees, and closetight houses, and Grab-nowitz’s Hardware Store flashed by us like a panning camera shot on TV. Boy! How Dean could pedal that tricycle.
Dean made the scene in our neighborhood like two years ago. Boy, what a pad they had. . . like we used to fall by that scene every day because Mrs. Moriarski would give us milk with a little extra swinging kick, a drop of chocolate goody in the bottom. But this was back in days of yore, like 1952, a crazy number when we all knew TIME. Today, we had pedaled all the way from the dirt brown universe of the Standard Station at one end of our block.
“Hey Dean. Dean? Where we gonna stop, huh Dean?” I asked.
“Oh yeath, I mean yes and yass. We are in transit to dig a frail by name of Lucy who habitates at the end of this big crazy block. Like keep up my charioteering pace.”
“Yes Dean.” Dean was always right. He always had a crazy mad place to go. He was really a MYSTIC. Always having ideas like that. . . like... that. Dean had a girl friend at the other end of the block that we were going to dig. I mean like we were really going to dig. Dean had stolen a shovel from his neighbor and we were* going to converse her into extricating some dirt and then we were going to bury her up to her neck and make off with the lollipop she had.
“Dean,” I said exhaustedly, “you’re going too fast!”
“Yes, I know. But it is all the better to dig everything with like.”
He was mad like that. Dean was always pedaling too fast or stealing somebody’s tricycle , or drinking too much
lemonade or staying up until
the late 3 show on TV. He was so BEAT. it
At last the long black satiny ribbon j of the street at the other end of the i block was visible. I dug it. I also dug | Lucy who was sitting on the curb with | her lollipop. I could tell it was a cherry, my favorite kind, as we roared into the | scene.	a
“Stand back, boy. I am going to make with that lollipop, like off. However, no- ’ tice how this is accomplished without benefit of shovel. Oh Lucy to whom I speak, do you wish to see my new National Birdwatcher’s Commemorative?” he asked, hiding his clenched fist in the folds of his ripped T-shirt.
Lucy never could resist a new stamp. She went for the same line last week and lost her lollipop but she couldn’t seem to resist Dean. Lucy and Dean walked into the alley with Lucy begging^to see the stamp. _Tn“a Tew minutes, Dean emerged from that cavern-like hole holding a beautiful bright red lollipop and he was running with Lucy shouting a few feet behind him.
“Hurry up. Hurry up, Thal, I mean Sal. I have obtained it” and he hopped on the seat and we both pedaled like crazy leaving Lucy bawling, I mean crying behind us. “She sure is a crazy kid” Dean said to me, “but God’s gift to lollipops strikes again.”
And we were on the sidewalk again. Oh sad crazy brown neighborhood. Dean even gave me a lick of Lucy’s lollipop as we rode on. The lick seemed to raise me to the top of the world. . . almost as high as Croznowski’s chimney. But life is life. We are but tricycle pedalers in it. God is good.
“Where are we going now, Dean? Huh, Dean?”
“Oh wait and stop. Like STOP and let me dig that marble hole” as he pointed to a marble hole somebody had dug in McCarthy’s front yard. “Observe how the heel of some cat has carefully excavated that receptacle forwith the circular glass orbs. Oh, note. Note carefully, oh my friend of a thousand tricycle irides, the per-fect-shun of that hole. Cast your Oedipus eyeballs upon that field of hon-
14
The Scholastic
or, that scene of a million marble clack-1 ings.”	.
SHow glorious! Dean was always like that. He saw things with a vision we did not have. I had ridden with him * from one end of the block to the other for many trips. The first time I met * him, he was riding a Schwinn Champion but he had burned that up in ’53. Leeping lizards (I heard someone say that once), what a pedaler. He was nearly as good as his father who everybody said was the biggest peddler in town.
It was late, and the high school kids * were returning from the school on the , other block and we pedaled on through the dyinggodyellowbright afternoon, past verdant lawns, and up to the place where the policewomen stood at the school crossing. The traffic light was verdant and the kids were crossing the street but we didn’t like them because they used to pat us on the head. That was until , Dean bit one of them. They didn’t pat S|	us on the head anymore.
| “Oh boy, do I hate cops. Yeath, I i mean yes, Sal, they are all Walt Dis-i nicks. That is what they are. Walt Disnicks.”
■ “Sure, Dean. Yes, yes. That’s what । they are.” Boy, how did he do it. He was always coming out with things like that. . .like. Suddenly, as we headed back toward Gramarcy’s Delicatessen, Dean । stopped and dismounted his tricycle.
i I “Quiet boy. Oh, boy, I am digging ! that ditch over there. Now I ask you, •. as sort of a parenthesis of my former thought, is that not a thwinging ditch that you perceive to our left. Is that not a sad American ditch? Please reply in words of one syllable, please.”
But I couldn’t make reply as I lay on the lawn and listened to Dean. He must have been a POET or maybe a ► SAINT or LIKE THAT. But I could see a gleamglint in his eyeball as it per> ceived Mary Jane bouncing her new red | ball on the sidewalk of the next house I1 while her friend held her- lollipop. At |	first I thought it was verdant but it
i	was cherry red like the last one and as
we sped through the applewhiteafter-* noon, I swooped down like the Apoplectic Horsemen of Grantland Bice fame, grabbing the lollipop and I made off with it. But I didn’t want the lollipop. < I felt nothing. It was so mad. We were all mad. I was especially mad because there was dirt on one side of the lollipop and that’s why they were not licking it. But it was mad, and crazy and beat and _ all sorts of other IN words.
Later we parked our tricycles outside and made the scene in Gramarcy’s. I * bought caramel pinwheels and jaw teasers that had a real kick in them. I knew they had a real kick in them because I 4 saw kindly old Mr. Gramarcy get them from Dean’s father. Meanwhile, Dean was casually slipping a Classic Comic ' under his T-shirt so he could quote it when we had one of our sessions, if he could read the words. He was so beat and great and neat in the sad OH sad neighborhood. OH. But it was back to Lucy’s house at the other end of the
block.
“Leave us meditate and cogitate, if we will, upon the great and tremendous session we are about to hit,” Dean said as we pedaled. “There will be Harvey Lewis and Lucy Lump and Captain Kan-geroo Nelson and Mary Ann and Buffalo Bob Swartz and Bod Carrs and Greta Ginsburg, and all of us making and doing and maybe even BEING!”
“Oh yes, yes and Yass Yass. And Yass. There will be swinging and blowing and mad mad music and liquid livers for lovers,” I replied. I was weary but Dean Moriarski could not be stopped and we pedaled through the applewhiteafternoon passing the grand and glorious Grabnowitz’s Hardware which was having a special on NOTHING, or so Dean said.
Lucy’s backyard was really swinging.
. . .she had forgiven Dean for who amongst us, (whost among us?) who could not benefice a 'forgetit’ upon his head. Lucy wore her mother’s high heels that emphasized the long flowing line of her trim shin-barked legs. Lemonade with all the sugar you could pour into it sent everybody digging the stars, or rather, Flanerty’s roof because it was day and that was all that was in the air.
“Yes yes yes, OH more sugar Oh more Lucy my ver-ry best friend. You catch my meaning which is contained within this sentence and not entirely clear to all. I speak sometime in parrot-balls, but by their fruits, you shall dig them... like. Are you hip, Lucy dear?”
She did not answer but swung her voluptuous hips in wild mad rhythm with the wild mad music of her wind-up Victrola. “London Bridge is falling down, falling down” and like that. Oh craziness. Mad Mad. “Swinging” her sultry voice chanted.
“Yass Yass” said Dean in the corner, making his way to the Victrola. “More lemonade with more sugar, lotsa sugar and bring yourself over here, Luc-cee
baa-bee.” Then Dean begin to recite with the music in the background. “Oh Dick saw Jane. Jane has Puff,” he said, his voice rising in a frenzy. “Jane gives Puff to Dick. Now Dick has Puff,” he concluded in a wild crescendo of excitement.
We all cheered. Oh ecstasy and glory in this mad timeness. Somebody took up the chorus of “Bing around the Rosey” and blew a million notes into the applewhiteafternoon. But Buffalo Bob Swartz came on like Joshua with his slingshot and put out Flanerty’s window. When we all dug this action, we fled the scene like fast, hopping on our mad tricycles. I liked Lucy’s arms around me except she was hanging on to Dean’s neck but Mary Ann was hanging on to me like I was her last peanut butter sandwich. But you couldn’t say anything against

Mary Ann because she too knew TIME.
And we raced to the other end of the block back to Gramarcy’s Delicatessen and I began to wonder about all this tricycle riding because I was getting pretty tired, and besides, it was almost time for Disneyland. And Dean knows how much I dig Disneyland. But he was heading at a TREMENDOUS speed down a driveway into the street. What would our mothers say? What would that lousy Walt Disnick cop say? But we didn’t care. We were so crazy and red in this brown universe.
Then I saw what Dean was after. She was blonde and almost seven and she had a whole handful of cherry popsickles. When me and Dean see cherry popsickles, we just go mad. Across the street, our copper buttons glittering on our Zorro jeans, we looked both ways twice and made the scene with that little broad. Dean conversed her into letting him hold the popsickles while I was going to show her a new way to cheat at Jacks. Seeing Dan pedaling furiously across the street, I smiled at blonde saying, “It don’t pay to cheat at Jacks, sister,” and fbl-
November 21, 1958
lowed Dean across the street. I neglected to elucidate the fact that we ditched Lucy and Mary Ann at some previous minute of yore just down the sidewalk a piece.
We ate the popsickles but I don’t really like popsickles but Dean likes ’em and what the heck.. .like. It was getting dark and the curtain was descending on another sad American Day. The golden orb in Hyperion’s fiery chariot dropped toward Messinger’s Slaughter House and day was nearly ore. Suddenly, we saw a VISION down the sidewalk. It was TIME. Clyde Time lived on the next block and he had a two-wheeler and he was so beat that he even said “Man” instead of “Boy.” Do you know how much faster you can pedal around the block on a two-wheeler?
But then the VOICE came over the dyingnightair. “Dean, it’s time for dinner.” And Dean went home saying “Yass Yass mother, I am coming.. .like.”
And I went home too.
At the Movies
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
8 p.m.—Farley, B-P Mixer in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
8. p.m.—Aesculapian’s Mixer in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Center.
8:15 p.m.—“Plain and Fancy” in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
SATURDAY:
8:30-11:30 p.m.—“Roaring Twenties” party in the Student Center, all invited. 8:15 p.m.—“Plain and Fancy” in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
SUNDAY:
1:30 p.m.—Bridge Club meeting in Room ID of the Student Center, lessons at 1:15 p.m.
2 p.m.—Sophomore Class Mixer in the ' Student Center.
7 p.m.—“Where in the World,” rooms 1A and B of the Student Center.
7:30 p.m.—The first Student Forum in the Law Auditorium, with talks by Mr. Willis Nutting, Mr. Donald Barrett, Tom Brady, and John Boyce with discussion afterwards.
7:45 p.m.—“Plain and Fancy” in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
MONDAY:
4 p.m.—“Law as a Career,” lecture by Rev. David C. Bayne, S.J., Dean of the University of Detroit Law School, room 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall, all are invited. 7 p.m.—Meeting of the Delaware Valley Club, room 2B of the Student Center.
7 p.m.—Mardi Gras Ball Committee meets in the Conference Room of the Student Center.
7:45 p.m.—Student Senate meeting in the amphitheater of the Student Senate.
TUESDAY:	.
8 p.m.—“Listening and Learning Foreign Languages on Your Own Time,” O’Shaughnessy Hall, French room 220, German 221, Spanish 201.
16
AVON ART
The Foxiest Girl in Paris: (Nov. 21-26). Ever so cultural. Par exem-ple: leading man to leading lady: “What’s the matter, foxiest girl in Paris, is my response too shrill, too piercing? Doesn’t it wow you? Don’t be acerbated, foxiest girl in Paris; let me plant the embryo of comprehension and then everything will become lucid, not nebulous, for I am truly altruistic and wish only to ameliorate you.” Like I said. Class.
Co-Feature—Port of Shame. Strictly for the intelligentsia. Which eliminates nearly everybody. CinemaScope and black vs. white.
Henry V (Nov. 27). Sir Laurence Olivier stars all over the place. Color and SuperScope.
COLFAX
The Restless Years: (Nov. 21-26). The story, from an “off-Broadway play” called “Teach Me How to Cry,” depicts warmly and perceptively your attitude after having seen, or more precisely, after having spent money to see same. John Saxon and Sandra Dee starred.
Home Before Dark: (Nov. 27). An absorbing study of human emotions. Drama of a wife’s attempt to confirm her husband’s love, in spite of reasonable suspicions that he is much more in love with her beautiful stepsister. Jean Simmons turns in a performance which is undoubtedly Oscar bait.	■
GRANADA
In Love and War: (Nov. 21-26). Among other things of an equally unsavory nature there lurks, in this film, an adult classification; which automatically excludes everybody around here with the possible exception of commerce majors, who, it is assumed, know enough not to waste then* by-the-hour time.
PALACE
Around the World in 80 Days: (Nov. 21-?). My roommate and I are both wondering how Niven and Cantiflas are going to make it in 80 if they spend 74 at the Palace.
RIVER PARK
Diamond Safari: (Nov. 21-22). Contains sights and sounds not normally incorporated into supporting features on these or other shores. Which is a very gentle way of saying it’s unusual in an unflattering manner. Kevin McCarthy and Robert Bice.
Co-Feature—The Hunters. Stars Roberts Mitchum and Wagner, Richard Egan and hey, hey, the first of May Britt. CinemaScope-Deluxe Color.
Seven Brides for Seven Brothers: (Nov. 23-26). Which, unfortunately for somebody’s gate receipts, has already made its appearance at Washington Hall.
Co-Feature—King Solomon’s Mine.	.
Buchanan Rides Alone: (Nov. 27-29). Randolph (alias: The Hero; alias: The Good Guy, etc.) Scott manages to execute another stirringly stereotype performance. Color.
Co-Feature—Tank Force. Victor Mature, Leo Genn. Color—CinemaScope.
STATE
Stakeout on Dope Street: (Nov. 21-22). A very definite debit to the industry. *
Co-Feature—Chase a Crooked Shadow.
War of the Worlds: (Nov. 23-26). One easy lesson on how to fight, kill, cheat, maim or otherwise gouge your fellow man.
When Worlds Collide. Co-Feature.
From Earth to Moon: (Nov. 27). Don’t confuse this with “From Here to Eternity.” Which was a movie.
Co-Feature—Flaming Frontier. Truly a conversation piece. .
WASHINGTON HALL—The Sheepman with Glenn Ford and Shirley MacLaine.' 6:25 and 8:25.	-
_ ** Lecil Starkloff
The Scholastic
Astronautics and San Diego Divisions of Convair offer you San Diego’s infinite variety of all-year outdoor sports ... golf, sailing, water-skiing, deepsea fishing, swimming, skin-diving ... plus a snow-sports season in the nearby mountains. Never too^wann, never too cold — America’s finest year-round climate! And both Divisions offer you exceptional career opportunities, working on projects which are destined to shape your world of tomorrow. Opportunities to further your education at San Diego State College, San Diego University, Cal-Westem University and University of California Extension are covered by Tuition-Refund Plan. To these will soon be added advanced scientific and engineering curricula at the University of California La Jolla campus.
CONVAIR-SAN DIEGO
Join the Commercial Jet-Age at Convair-San Diego. You will contribute your engineering ideas on such commercial projects as the Convair 880 and Convair 600 Jet Liners. These commercial programs — with a stable long range forecast—are balanced by the F-106 Delta Dart, America’s fastest and highest flying jet interceptor; advanced missile and weapon systems; and space vehicle projects. At Convair-San Diego you will have the opportunity to progress professionally as well as academically in an atmosphere widely regarded as the ‘“vigorous engineering climate”.
CONVAIR-ASTRONAUTICS
Our great new $40-million Convair-Astronautics facility was conceived and created solely for the purpose of putting America first and farthest into space. Here, in the only plant of its land in the world, graduates will participate in the program of America’s mightiest missile, the Atlas ICBM, and problems of lunar and interplanetary exploration. Many members of our staff are among the world’s leading authorities in their fields —distinguished engineers and physicists to direct your career progress. We invite you to learn about your future here!
Undergraduate & Graduate Students Majoring In
AERONAUTICAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, NUCLEAR, CIVIL ENGINEERING .	Plus Graduate Students Majoring In
PHYSICS and MATHEMATICS
JOINT INTERVIEWS
AT NOTRE DAME
Wednesday, Thursday, December 3-4
Ask your placement office for appointment
CONVAIR^ cy	op
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION G
-November 21, 1958
17
He’s been on his way up from the day he started work
James C. Bishop got his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois on June 23,1953. On July 1, he went to work as a lineman in the Illinois Bell Telephone Company management training program. On July 2, he was “shinnying” up telephone poles.
And he’s been “climbing” ever since. A planned rotational training program, interrupted by a stint in the Army, took Jim through virtually every phase of plant operations.
He was promoted to Station Installation Foreman in July, 1957. Then came more training at company expense-in human relations and other supervisory subjects—at Knox College.
Since early 1958, Jim has been Central Office Foreman in the Kedzie District of Chicago, which embraces about 51,000 telephone stations. He has 19 men reporting to him.
“I was hired as ‘a candidate for management,’ ” he says. “I know I’ll get the training and opportunity to keep moving ahead. How far I go is up to me. I can’t ask for more than that”
* * *
Find out about career opportunities for you in the Bell Telephone Companies. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And, meanwhile, read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.

Jim Bishop holds training sessions regularly with his men. At left, he discusses cable routes in connection with the “cutover” of his office to dial service. At right, he and a frameman check a block connection on the main frame.
V
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES (A
18
The Scholastic
IRISH TEST BOWL-BOUND HAWKEYES AT IOWA
Notre Dame’s up and down football team meets the Hawkeyes of the Uni, versity of Iowa tomorrow afternoon at * Iowa City, Iowa. Kickoff time for the ■ nationally televised clash is set for 1:30 ’ pan. C.S.T.
The Irish will be out to win their second game in a row and sixth of the season. The Hawkeyes pose an ominous threat to any Irish victory thoughts, though, as they have already captured the Big Ten Championship and a bid to the Rose Bowl.
As added incentive, Coach Forest Eva-shevski’s lowans will be out to erase
RAY JAUCH
Speedy Hawkeye halfback
the one serious blemish on their 1958 ♦ record—last Saturday’s 38-28 defeat handed them by Ohio State. An impres-« sive win ovei' the Irish would salve a lot of wounds in the land of Hawkeye.
> The Notre Darners have plenty of reasons for winning this one, too. The seniors, led by co-Captains Al Ecuyer and Chuck Puntillo, have never played
* On a squad that has beaten Iowa. Tomorrow will be their last chance to ac-4 complish this feat.
I Last year, the Iowa win was by a 21-13 count at Notre Dame. This loss might be forgiven, but Irish fans are still smarting from the 48-8 disgrace which befell the lads from South Bend * in 1956.
Back to menace the Brennanmen from * last year’s defeat will be Randy Duncan, , 6-0, 180-pound senior quarterback. Last year, Duncan accounted for two of the Hawkeyes scores, throwing one pass for a touchdown and intercepting an Irish aerial for another. Duncan has one of
the finest passing percentages in the country this year.
Duncan’s running mates in the backfield are two-pint-sized halfbacks, Kevin Furlong and Ray Jauch, and fullback, Capt. John Nocera.
Furlong, who weighs 166 pounds, and Jauch, a 170-pounder, are two of the smallest halfbacks in the country. They are also two of the fastest, and each has very good power for his size. Both are juniors.
Nocera is the workhorse of the Iowa backfield. He has great speed for the 195 pounds packed on his frame, as evidenced here last year when he outran the entire Irish secondary to score on a 36-yard run.
The Hawkeye line also boasts both size and speed. The end posts will be manned by Curtis Merz and Don Norton. Merz played most of last season behind the Hawkeye’s All-American, Jim Gibbons, but this year has come into his own and is considered to be one of the top pass catchers in the Big Ten.
Norton is a 175 pounder, and despite his lack of size is a fine defensive end. He will also do some of the Iowa punting.
The tackle slots will start John Burroughs and John Sawin. Burroughs did not play last season, but has filled in capably for the graduated Alex Karras this fall.
Sawin is a junior from Chicago who saw limited action in 1957.
The Hawkeye guard positions are
PIETROSANTE BREAKS FREE
Senior Irish fullback bursts into the Tarheel secondary after getting a good block from Dick Royer. The Notre Dame rushing offense was particularly effective as they rolled up 323 yards on the ground and outscored North Carolina, 34-24, to snap a six-game Tarheel win streak.
handled by Gary Grouwinkel and Don Shipanik. Grouwinkel is seeking his third monogram for the Hawkeyes. Shipanik is a guard of the watch charm variety, measuring 5-11, and weighing only 175 pounds.
Bill Lapham will start at center. He is the biggest man on the Iowa line, weighing 230 pounds.
The Irish hopes will be bolstered by the return of guard Jim Schaaf to fulltime duty. Schaaf has missed most of the last three games due to an ear infection.
Along with Schaaf, the Irish will have their two “Iron Men” on the left side of the line, Monty Stickles and Frank Geremia. These two lead all Irish squadmen in playing time to date. Stickles has played 279 minutes, and Geremia 275% minutes.
Bob Scholtz will be at center, with Ecuyer, Puntillo, and Bob Wetoska filling out the rest of the starting line.
The backfield starters will be the same as last week’s who rolled to their highest rashing total of the year. George Izo will be the quarterback, Jim Crotty and Red Mack at the halfbacks, with fullback Nick Pietrosante completing the quartet.
Izo continues to lead the late season offensive surge of 'the Irish. The big, blonde quarterback from Barberton, Ohio, now has completed 48 of 82 passes for 816 yards and a .585 percentage. Seven of the tosses have been for touchdowns.
November 21, 1958
Jordanmen Have Hawkins and Duffy Returning But Must Replace Devine and J. McCarthy
Notre Dame’s basketball team, which has leached the NCAA championship tourney for the past three years, will open its 1958-59 season on Dec. 3 against Bellarmine College of Louisville, Ky., in the Notre Dame Field House. Coach Johnny Jordan is faced with the problem of replacing two of last year’s starting quintet of a team which reached the quarter-final round of the NCAA before losing to Kentucky, the eventual national champion.
Jordan, in his eighth year as Irish coach, must find replacements for coCaptains Bob Devine and John McCarthy. Devine, a guard, started every contest during his three years as a varsity player. McCarthy, a starter at forward, averaged 19.2 points per game last year for the Irish.
Jordan is also faced with the problem of building up his bench strength. Graduation cut deep into the reserves taking Ed Gleason, a three-year veteran at guard, and Jim Williams, also a three-year member of the squad, who alternated at forward and center. Gleason played in 20 contests last year, and Williams was in 14.
Four lettermen return to the Fighting Irish this year. All-American choice Tom Hawkins returns for his third year of varsity competition as does guard and playmaker Gene Duffy and center Mike Ireland. Junior Mike Graney, starting center last year, also returns to the squad. Another monogram winner, Tom Reinhart, will not play this year due to a knee injury. Jordan terms Reinhart’s condition a “serious loss” to the team.
Others returning to the Irish quintet are forwards Emmett McCarthy, Mickey Bekelja, Mickey Farrell, guards Bob Bradtke and Don McGann, and center Bob Skrzycki. New sophomore additions to the squad are forwards Bill Crosby, Dennie Walljasper, Jim Sullivan, and Pat Kearnay, guards Ray Vales and Bill Noonan, and center John Tully.
Hawkins, a second team All-American last year, averaged 25.2 points per game for the 1957-58 season. Hawkins, from Chicago, Ill., is the most versatile player on the squad. He is a fine defensive player and his jumping ability enables him to be the leading rebounder on the team.
The 6-5 Irish forward tied a Field House record set by former Irish great Lloyd Aubrey by pouring 43 points through the hoop against the Air Force Academy last year. Hawkins also set the single game high for rebounding last year by hauling down 22 rebounds against Valparaiso. He also broke his own record for total points by a Notre Dame player in one season by amassing 730 points. This total, coupled with the 576 he tallied as a sophomore, broke the record for total points in two years with 1306. Hawkins is one of this year’s co-captains.
Gene Duffy, the other co-captain, is rated by many as the best small basketball player in the country. Standing at 5-7, Duffy is the Irish playmaking guard and backcourt ace. From Davenport, Iowa, he is the fastest man on the team and the most expert passer. Although averaging only 6.6 points per game last year, Duffy is invaluable in assisting his teammates on scoring plays and fast
TOM HAWKINS High-scoring returnee
1958-59 SCHEDULE
Dec. 3 Bellarmine at Notre Dame Dec. 8 Northwestern at Notre D. Dec. 13 Wisconsin at Madison Dec. 17, Michigan St. at Notre D.
Bluegrass Festival at Louisville Dec. 19 North Carolina Dec. 20 Northwestern
Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis Dec. 26 Indiana Dec. 27 Purdue
Dec. 31 Northwestern at Evanston Jan. ■ 3 N. Carolina at Charlotte Jan. 6 Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 10 Detroit at Notre Dame* Jan. 13 DePaul at Chicago Jan. 17 Loyola at Notre Dame* Jan. 24 Illinois at Chicago Stad’m Jan. 31 Xavier at Chicago Stad’m Feb. 2 St. John’s at Notre Dame Feb. 7 Canisius at Buffalo Feb. 9 Army at West Point Feb. 14 Kentucky at Chgo. Stad’m Feb. 16 Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 21 DePaul at Notre Dame * Feb. 24 Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 2 Valparaiso at Notre D. Mar. 7 Marquette at Notre D.*
* afternoon games
breaks. He sets up the Irish play pat- | terns from his outside position.	’
Center Mike Graney joined the squad | at midseason last year and quickly be- j came the starting center. Graney, from | Chesterton, Ind., helped the team gain j a berth in the NCAA tourney with his f 9.6 points average. Graney, at 6-5, is J tough under the boards, and his fine I hook shot is expected to again add power to the Irish scoring machine.
Ireland, whose father was a Notre Dame player and is now head basketball coach at Loyola, stands 6-6. At center * for the last three years for the Irish, Ireland is expected to give the Irish f added strength at both forward and center.
Bradtke, from Chicago, Ill., was a top reserve last year. The 6-1 guard gained valuable experience last year and will probably see a great deal of action this year. He is a fine shooter and uses an accurate jump shot. McCarthy, a 6-3	*
junior from Chicago, is a brother of John McCarthy, one of last year’s cocaptains. He possesses a fine left-handed jump shot and is making a strong bid to crack the starting lineup. He will probably play the same position his brother played and use a similar shot. Bekelja, a 6-4 forward from Harrisburg, Pa., Farrell from East Orange, N. J., McGann, at 6-2, from Joliet, Ill., and Skrzycki from Detroit, Mich., are expected to see action and add strength to the bench.	j
Tully, a 6-7 center, is a top sophomore prospect. Under the boards, he has w shown good reactions and reflexes despite his height, and he possesses a fine hook shot from either side of the basket. Another newcomer to the squad, Crosby, has been working well with the regular starters and is also expected to see a lot of action throughout the season. Noonan, another sophomore, has also -4 looked good.
Last year’s Notre Dame eagers were the highest scoring team in Irish history. The Jordanmen averaged 83 points a ball game. This year, according to Jordan, the Irish will have to go a long way to approach this scoring high. “Remember, we must find the two men to 4' replace Devine and McCarthy. It is a question of smart defensive play coupled * with the fact that they averaged 30 points a ball game between them.”
Hawkins, Graney, Duffy, Bradtke, and McCarthy have been working together well, but Tully, Noonan, and Farrell are , also pressing for starting positions.
Jordan has also been working with a combination of Ireland, Graney, Hawkins, Duffy, and McCarthy. The Irish use a 1-3-1 offense and a shifting manto-man defense. Jordan has stressed that “the fall practice has been devoted to trying to find the right combination.” '
The Irish had a 24-5 record last year. They dropped games to Bradley, Louisville, Marquette, Michigan State, and Kentucky. But the Irish dumped such notables as North Carolina and Northwestern and also won the Hoosier Classic.—Greg Rogers.
20
The Scholastic
>1.



Harriers in Nationals; Second in CCC Meet
Monday, November 24, the Irish harriers will end their season with the NCAA cross-country championship at Michigan State University. The seven players who will travel to East Lansing will be: Ron Gregory, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Mike Haverty, Dave Whe-lage, Charles Fernald, and Dennis Johnston. Johnston is recovering from a leg injury, but he should be physically fit by Monday.
The team, which has won two meets, finished second in two others, and tied for first in another, is led by sophomore Gregory and junior Cotton.
. In last week’s meet at Chicago, the Central Collegiate Championships, the Irish were set back for the second time this season by Western Michigan. However, with the combined effort of Ron Gregory, who finished a strong third, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Mike Haverty and Dave Whelage, the Wilsonmen were able to total 40 points and a second place finish. The Irish were up against some of the top independent thinclads in the Midwest.
Coach Wilson has high hopes for his men to retain their NCAA championship, but he says that, with only the top teams in the country at the race, the competition will be rugged.
“Right now,” he claims, “Western Michigan or Michigan State appear to be the teams to beat although Army, rated the best in the East, will be there, too.”
TIME OUT
We’re coming to the end of the football season, and tomorrow’s game with the Iowa Hawkeyes looms as one of the toughest tests of the year for the 1958 Irish. So far this year the team has won five of eight games and won only one of those five with any degree of authority. In the three losses, needless to say, they looked little like the team some people expected them to be.
A victory in tomorrow’s game with Iowa would help in many ways. First, Iowa has won the last two games between the two teams, humiliating the Irish, 48-8, in Iowa City two years ago and then deflating them in the Stadium the week after they had beaten Oklahoma last year, 21-13.
This gave Iowa five wins and three ties in 16 games against Notre Dame. This is the best record against Notre Dame of any team the Irish play this year. ■
Second, Iowa’s Coach Forest Evashevski has had little love for Notre Dame ever since the 1953 14-14 tie between his Hawkeyes and the Irish. Consequently, in 1956, when he had the chance to roll up a big score against v an obviously weak Notre Dame team, he didn’t hesitate to do so. This year’s seniors on the football team can remember what Evashevski’s Rose Bowl-bound team did to them that year and would like to repay him for the gesture.
*
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Dartmouth over Princeton Holy Cross over Marquette Syracuse over West Virginia Auburn over Wake Forest North Carolina over Duke Tennessee over Kentucky LSU over Tulane Illinois over Northwestern Purdue over Indiana Missouri over Kansas
Michigan State over Kansas State Ohio State over Michigan Oklahoma over Nebraska SMU over Baylor -TCU over Rice Air Force over New Mexico
PLACATE AROUSED FANS
Last, a victory over Iowa, a team rated highly across the country, would help placate those who have been upset to varying degrees with the team’s performance this year. There have been cries against the coach and against individual players and the team as a whole, but these cries could be softened, if not silenced, by a resounding triumph over the again Bowl-bound Hawkeyes.
Not only would this game, if won, provide one of the most satisfying victories of the campaign, it would also enable the Irish to invade Los -Angeles next week end with a chance to achieve a 7-3 record for the season.
There is one more aspect to this game, as well as to the Southern California game, and this was brought out by senior tackle Don Lawrence on WSND’S panel discussion, “On the Line” a week ago Wednesday night. At the time, the Irish still had the North Carolina game to play, and Don said that the team, especially the seniors, wanted to take the last three games badly. He said that the team was going to try extra hard in the last three games because “we seniors don’t want to leave Notre Dame with a bad taste in our mouths.”
$

California USC over
Minnesota
over Stanford UCLA
UPSKI-SETSKI
over Wisconsin
WATCH THIS ONE
Notre Dame over Iowa
LAST WEEK
Ten right, nine wrong, one tie
TOTALS TO DATE
80 right, 34 wrong, eight ties, 70.2 per cent
November 21., 1958
MAY BE BEST REASON
Possibly this is the most important reason for winning. This year’s seniors have played together for three years now. They had a hard time two years ago when they were bumped around almost every week; then last year they rebounded and became the comeback team of the year as they marched to seven wins in ten games. After the final game of the season last year, against SMU in the Cotton Bowl, some press box observers speculated that they were watching “next year’s national champions.”
The team that had learned about defeat the hard way in 1956, the team that had the taste of defeat with them for most of two years, was supposedly going to suppress that taste this year.
> But, again as Lawrence said on that same program, the breaks went the other way this year. The taste of defeat is still very present to the seniors, especially.
Last Saturday, the Irish took the first step toward ridding themselves of that taste of defeat by beating North Carolina.	.
Two more steps remain to be taken. The first of these is tomorrow in Iowa City.
TYLER
After last Saturday’s disastrous results, Tyler said he wanted a week’s vacation. (We may give him more than that after the week he had.) So this week my assistants, Tom Rose and Bob Schaefer, both from Minnesota by the way, have done the picking. Well see how they do.—T.T.

YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND . . .
Watches by
• OMEGA
• BULOVA
• LONGINES
• HAMILTON
• LE COULTRE .
• WITTNAUER
• PATEK PHILIPPE
Diamonds by Keepsake & Artcarved
•	GOLD & STERLING CHARMS
•	RELIGIOUS JEWELRY
•	BIRTHSTONE BINGS
•	COSTUME JEWELRY
•	MEN'S JEWELRY
•	GIFTS
WATCH AND CLOCK REPAIR HAND ENGRAVING
121 WASHINGTON	CE 4-1311
Keep On Your Toes With
When the student body sits in class all day, getting numb at both ends, be crazy like a fox. Keep on your toes with NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour studying and hep on late dates. Safe as coffee and much more convenient.
TRYOUTS FOR “MURDER”
Tryouts for the second production of the University Theatre group will be held tonight in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. The February production will be T. S. Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral. The play deals with the martyrdom of Thomas Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury, in 1170.
Labor's Sells Defends Union Political Action
Dallas Sells, president of the AFL-CIO in Indiana and leading labor figure in this state, addressed the Labor-Management club last Thursday night. In his speech Sells attempted to justify labor’s position in politics.
He explained that since management has been involved in politics for a long time and has passed such powerful legislation as the Taft-Hartley Act, labor must also take part in political activity to attain a balance of power. In the recent Indiana elections, labor backed the Democratic party in most instances. Sells said this was because in each case the candidate’s platform was favorable to the interests of labor and not because labor is always for the Democratic party.
He cited several examples where labor groups pledged support for Republican candidates when their platform was the more favorable to labor. Also backed by labor were two pieces of legislation, one concerning “right to work laws” and the other concerning supplemental unemployment benefits. While the labor vote is largely undeterminable, it is still a powerful influence.
In a question-and-answer period following his talk, Mr. Sells commented on many controversial topics such as profit sharing, the secondary boycott, the bargaining table, labor’s relations with the press, the minimum wage law in Indiana, labor’s financial support of the recent election in the rtate, and crookedness in the unions.
This was the third in a series of lectures and programs of vital interest to commerce men and to those interested in the field of labor relations. The series is presented by the newly reorganized Labor Relations club.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
PARKAS AND WINTER CLOTHES
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
NOTICE Leather Sleeved Jackets
GENUINE STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES
24 OUNCE WOOL MILTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED
Special $15.95
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS
Why Not Europe This Summer?
as low as
$697
all-inclusive
SEE: Wm. A. Conway 265 Dillon Hall
WRITE: NFCCS-NNCF 1 Thomas Circle Washington 5, D. C.
Make Reservations at.	*
EDDIE’S
for	‘
BANQUETS PARTIES	*
CLUB FUNCTIONS
Special Rates for
Notre Dame Men k
•
Eddie can accommodate groups from 10 to 100. Make your reservations now by calling CE 2-5861 after 4:30, ask for Jerry
Y-
1345 IRONWOOD DRIVE
Michiana’s Finest
The Scholastic
DLOOP HOTEL ROOMS
« anytime to PREFERRED GUESTS *
During certain
periChi-
are
. Rates from
convention ods, all available cago hotel rooms frequently taken.
You can be .assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton — preferred by the family, and business executives for -downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to. you, the preferred guests Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
THE NEW
HAMILTON
HOTEL
20 SOUTH DEARBORN
Preferred by guests in
CHICAGO
IN KANSAS CITY IT'S THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
Club to Exchange Mails With University of Lublin
The Polish club plans to correspond with the Catholic University of Lublin. Lublin is the only university behind the Iron Curtain not controlled by the communist government. The plans were announced by Kenneth Walpuck, president of the newly formed organization. Lublin is supported by benefactors from the United States and other countries of the free world.
According to Walpuck, the Polish club will correspond with the students of the Catholic university and exchange periodicals, books, and literature pertaining to the arts and sciences.
Walpuck said he hopes to achieve a close relationship between Notre Dame and the Polish university. “It is the perfect opportunity for us to see what is going on behind the Iron Curtain, and to receive in exchange, for what we send them, examples of progress in the arts and sciences in Poland and other Eastern European countries today,” Walpuck added.
Anyone interested in this program may contact Ken Walpuck, 310 Howard; Jim Stucko, 319 Howard; Steve Guiheen, 306 Dillon; or Larry Loje, 247 Dillon.
'Technical Review1 Wins Three Prizes for Issues
The Technical Review has won three top prizes for last year’s four issues. This announcement was made at the annual Engineering College Magazines Associated Convention held last month at the University of Colorado in Boulder, Colo.
The quarterly was awarded first prize in the category of “Best Cover of the Year” for the cover of the May issue, created and drawn by Richard Grusdis, senior architect. Other awards received by the magazine were second prize in “Best Covers for the Full Year” and fourth prize in the department of “Best All-Around Magazine for the Eull Year.”
This marked the fourth straight year in which the Technical Review has received top prizes among engineering college magazines, which includes publications from 51 schools throughout the country.
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
• .
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
BOOKS...
.. .TheMost Appreciated Gifts You Can Give
HERE ARE FOUR NEW TITLES FROM
■ UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME PRESS
. .. Perfect for Religious and Laymen
PAROCHIAL SCHOOL:
A SOCIOLOGICAL STUDY
by Joseph H. Fichter, S.J.
For: Teaching Priests, Sisters and Brothers, public and parochial school administrators, sociologists and parents of children in parochial schools.	$&00
THE MEANING OF
SACRED SCRIPTURE
by Kev. Louis Bouyer.
For: Liturgists, Biblicists and lay-people.	$4.75
THE DOGMA OF THE
IMMACULATE CONCEPTION
Edited by Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C.
For: Theologians, Religious, and lay people, particularly interested in Marian doctrine. $iwn
WORSHIP: THE LIFE OF THE MISSIONS
by Johannes Hofinger, S.J.
For: Missionaries and those connected in any way with foreign missions, and for liturgists. $4.75
AT THE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
November 21, 1958
RECAPTURE THE EXCITEMENT OF THE FOOTBALL SEASON
NOTRE D4ME NOVELTIES AND SOUVENIRS
SPORTS WEAR
JEWELRY
BOOKS—2nd FLOOR
N.D. Famous Football Teams
N.D. Famous Football Coaches
The Notre Dame Story
HERE COME THE FLAPPERS ( “The Roaring Twenties” will return tomorrow night for a one <' night stand in LaFortune Student Center from 8:30 to 11 p.m. Costumes are recommended for those attending the dance with music provided by Bruce Cosacchi and the Dixie Ramblers, and prizes will be given for the best costumes fitting the time.
There will be a door prize of a 4 live puppy and the price of the dance is $1.25 payable at the door. * There will be a floor show, singing, and other activities to highlight the evening.
Notre Dame Bookstore
SPECIAL OFFER
HERE’S YOUR CHANCE TO GET A
CAMEL. WINSTON or SALEM CIGARETTE LIGHTER
JUST BRING 10 EMPTY Camel, Winston or Salem Packages and 50c (coin) to:
THE HUDDLE
OR THE CAFETERIA
OFFER EXPIRES DECEMBER 15, 1958
Language Classes Held 4 Every Tuesday Evening *
Under the sponsorship of the AB Ad- , visory Council and the department of modem languages, a series of evening lessons in French, German, and Spanish have been initiated.
Courses, non-credit and voluntary, will be taught every Tuesday night for one A hour in O’Shaughnessy Hall. An intro- ’ ductory session was held last night and another will be held at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the following O’Shaughnessy Hall rooms: French, 220; German, 221; f Spanish, 201.	U
These classes will emphasize the ■ spoken language, with exercises in speaking and hearing rather than in grammar and translation. Tape recordings and records will be employed freely, and constant class participation will < , be a feature of the program.
These language classes are expected to have practical value not only to the present students of language, but also i to those who wish to keep brushed up on the language knowledge they already *
possess.
Extra Rooms Open for Study In Various Campus Buildings
Through the efforts of a student gov
4
ernment sub-committee, 15 rooms in the four college buildings have been opened for evening Study.	;
In Nieuwland Science Hall four rooms, y 236, 239, 341, and 343 will be open until | 10 p.m. The three classrooms on the * second floor of the Old Chemistry build-ing and rooms 236 and 239 will be open ' ! until midnight.	i
Four rooms in the College of Com- " merce, which were closed for ten days because of damage done by students have been conditionally reopened. Rooms 101, 103, and 104 will stay open until midnight. Four rooms on either the sec- j, ond or the third floor will be open in the Engineering building.
The AB Student Lounge in O’Shaugh-nessy Hall is open until 10 p.m. The committee, which is headed by John Keegan, sophomore class president, is working on the possibility of its remaining open until midnight.
I
24
The Scholastic

4
4
4
Date-Change Announced In PreJtegistering Days
Leo Corbaci, assistant to the vice president of academic affairs, announced this week that the dates of preregistration have been changed. Originally, they were scheduled for the period of December 2 to 17. The new dates are now the two-week period aftei- Christmas vacation, January 6 to 16.
The same procedure as in previous years will be followed. A complete list of details will be posted in the residence halls before Christmas vacation. An information sheet will also be given to each student.
*

k
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
NSA Test Scheduled Dec. 6 For Posts at Ft. Meade, Md.
A test will be given on Dec. 6 for those interested in positions with the National Security Agency at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland. Majors such as the following are needed: English, languages, economics, political science, history, geography, international relations, communication arts, and area studies.
The test is being held under the direction of the guidance and testing department. Further information may be obtained from that department.
*

Five Attorneys to Participate * In Symposium of Law School
Plans for a Notre Dame Law School symposium on “The Public Service Opportunities and Responsibilities of Lawyers” to be held here December 4 have been completed.
Five prominent attorneys representing * federal, state, and local governments will participate in the sessions scheduled for * the Law Auditorium. The symposium, one of several held in recent years, is ■ intended “to help develop a tradition of public service, in the Notre Dame Law School,” Dean O’Meara of the Law School said.
* Speakers will include Oscar Davis first assistant in the Office of the Soli-• citor General, Washington, D. C.; Thomas Meeker, general counsel of the Se-* curities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D. C.; Murray Seasongood, former mayor of Cincinnati, Ohio; Hugh Sherer, chief counsel, Office of the At* torney General, Columbus, Ohio; and G.
W. Snyder, assistant regional commis-4 sioner, appellate, for the Cincinnati region of the Internal Revenue Service.
According to Dean O’Meara, Davis and Meeker will discuss the opportunities and responsibilities of career public service in the federal government. * Snyder will approach the subject from the point of view of a regional federal * official not situated in Washington.
Sherer will describe public service challenges in state government, and Seasongood will explore the lawyer’s opportunities of public service in the local community.
November 21, 1958
during the Thanksgiving holidays select your clothing and furnishings
AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago and West Coast stores, an interesting selection of good-lookingsuits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit. -.. made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42...and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 Topcoats, $75 'Raccoon Collar Outercoat,$30
Hens Jtanisbiiup, 0ats ^Shoes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEWYOKK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES ’ SAN FKANOSCO
Bach Pa^e
by JERRY FALLON
self deception in education
More than a year ago, we Americans felt that Sputnik had finally awakened us to a bitter truth about the impoverished state of our educational system. In the weeks that followed this discovery, we comforted ourselves with the fact that realization had accomplished half of the battle and that firm reorganization would bring final victory. But in our struggle to reform method by ostracising Deweyism, we continued to ignore a fundamental goal of education: understanding of the self.
The solution of such a problem is far from easy. We study the physical sciences to understand nature more completely; and we study the humanities to give us some idea about that abstract entity known as man. Theoretically, a careful combination of these courses should yield adequate conclusions about the self, but evidence to the contrary is flagrant. We write volumes of analyses of complicated fictional and historical characters. We spend hours criticising the character and abilities of teachers and classmates, and often we draw fruitful conclusions. Yet we devote little time to destroying the illusions we have built around our own persons.
The neglect of the self in education may seem strange when we consider the fact that some of the greatest tragedies in history and literature have occurred in people who didn’t know who they were. Karl Marx’s misconception of who he was resulted from a deeper misconception of what he was when he concluded that man was capable of achieving perfection in the finite world. Dostoevsky’s Raskolnikov tried to explore the limits of human nature and when he exceeded them, his whole being reacted.
The most tragic literary characters are those who hide from themselves behind a. lifetime of self-deception. We see them on the stage and on the screen striving for the goal they cannot achieve, or running away from the reality of what they are, the Willey Lomans, the Brett Ashleys and the Willey Starks. The most tragic element in Hatful of Rain is the father’s hopeless self-deception. His son needs only three days of physical and mental anguish when he says to his father: “I know what I am, I’m a junkey.”
We admire the realism of these characters and we share their plights vicari
26
ously, but they are the extreme cases and cannot be us. Perhaps we come a bit closer to ourselves when we look at the cases on our own campus.
As Catholic college students, our problem does not come from a misunderstanding of what we are. Our theology and philosophy tell us what our human nature is, its potentialities and limitations. Oui- problem is to continue from here and discover the who that we are. The courses we study provide ample opportunity to form false opinions of ourselves: we feel that the General Program makes us intellectuals, or that Commerce makes us businessmen. We often have the mistaken idea that because our major field is by nature broader than someone else’s, we are being more liberally educated, and should therefore scoff at such mundane courses as Finance or Mechanics of Materials.
We see students striving for goals that are ill suited for their particular needs, capabilities or natural desires because of fear, laziness or childhood dreams: students who frustrate talents in the arts because a welfare state culture stresses the value of ready-made jobs and comfortable suburban life, students who strive to become doctors in spite of a lack of aptitude for a dedicated type of life because of parental pressure or vocational fantasy. They give better reasons and usually believe them, because their emotions have clouded the logical process.
Often the religious practices at Notre Dame engender false ideas of ourselves as Catholics. This comes about through no fault in the system itself or in the priests who promote it. Frequent Mass and Communion practices are the best means to a good Catholic life. But sometimes we use them to form a new “red blooded American boy” type of religion; one that stresses the “hit-the-box, hit-the-rail” and keep in the state of grace idealism with nothing more. We draw a narrow line at the mortal sin mark and manage not to cross it, but anything goes on the other side of that line and the ultimate goal is Purgatory.
Another religious misconception is the purely theological concept of religion. This stems from our Puritanical roots that promotes an aversion to a religion of externals. If Catholicism is one of the most intellectual religions, it is also
one that recognizes the emotional nature of man. It is a religion of liturgy and sacraments as well as Summas; and if we call ourselves Catholics, we must realize that externals are a part of us, not to be compromised in apologetics to a Protestant country.
Finally, in our cloistered University life, we may tend to become so engrossed in ourselves as students that we lose interest in anything outside our select world. Whether we assume the role of student to be one of the “seeker of speculative knowledge” or the playboy popularized in the twenties, the result is often nearly the same. We lose sight of ourselves as members of a family or a society and withdraw into our own little segment that we have concluded is all. The results of the recent political science survey gave evidence of this; and if economics, history or science majors conducted similar polls, the results would probably be the same.
These are the obvious examples of self-deception, easily seen in others and not quite so easily seen in ourselves. Most cases, however, do not fit into such simplified classification. They involve more subtle manifestations that seldom show up externally. They lie at the base of many values that we consciously believe to be sincere. If we can see the possibility of such misconceptions influencing our motives, we can see that perhaps some of the objectives we have cherished from early life or from our first contacts with a University environ- 1 ment could very possibly be subject to error in that they are not the things best suited to the persons that we are. That such misconceptions of the self do exist is human; they show evidence of educational failure when lack of sensitivity or personal pride keeps them hidden.	i-
Educational institutions do not need sweeping reforms to bring students to an adequate understanding of themselves as persons. They have only to offer a faculty of men capable of going beyond the strict material of their courses to penetrate a few dark spots in the minds , of their students. Their success or failure will depend on the openness of the students’ minds to receive anything that clashes with established personal ideals and place it in its proper order.
The Scholastic
High-scorers after the game... from Arrow
You’ll be proud as a coach with a tew star halfback when you take the wraps off this new Arrow sports wear. That’s a Twin Tartan shirt on the man at the left—a time-saver in cotton wash and wear. Another twin idea—the pullover knit shirts on the man at the right and his date. The sweater? A smart new crew-neck model. Knit shirt, $5.00 up; other shirt, $5.00 up; sweater, $7.95 up.
duett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
We’ve a storeful of Arrow wash-and wear shirts. All the newest collar styles in oxfords and broadcloths, white, solid colors and patterns, French and regular cuffs. Look in soon and see them for yourself.
Shirts for any date
... while you wait
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
THEY SAID IT COULDN^T BE DONE
AMANDA BLAKE AND JIM ANNES* TAKE AN LfM BREAK ON GUNSMOKE SET, HOLLYWOOD
©1958 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
ftW hkis:
“Couldn't be done, couldn’t be done.” Hardly anyone dreamed that 50,000,000 people would be able to enjoy a “Western”... in their own homes... on the same evening! But that's how many Americans watch “GUNSMOKE” . . . TV’s most popular program, every Saturday on CBS-TV.
* Only UM has U. S. patent number
on the side of the pack. This patent
(No. 2,805.671) covers UM’s ex-
clusive process that electrostati-
cally adds extra filtering fibers.
Light into that!J CTVB
oderh flavor
PUFF BY PUFF... TODAYS L&M GIVES YOU
DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!
Change to l?M and get ’em both. Yes, today’s L&M gives you the unbeatable combination of less tars and more taste! DM’s taste is so full and rich... it’s a rare mixture of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. And you get I/M’s patented* filtering process — assuring you of less tars in the smoke, puff by puff, than ever before.