
October, 1982 

Special 

STUDENTS ONLY! 
(Thru November 30th. Must have valid l.D.) 

-½ OFF­
ALL PHOTO-DEVELOPING 
Reg. Student 12-color prints + developing C-126 $4.40 $2.20 24-color prints + developing C-110 $8.12 $4.06 36-color prints + developing C-135 $12.32 $6.16 
QUALITY PHOTO-TECH DEVELOPING IN MATTE OR GLOSSY FINISH 

ROSELAND.PHA~~ACY 
405 Olut W¦J No.-th(U.S. 31)Aouland 272-6060 


.Now With

Sir Rich , 
(f,-orr, l ... ard s 
e,rto . 
'"19htJ 
SoeMatth 
Laor0 8 ews 
Soe p 0 sore 
P001 orpart lornrerty of/' Jones 
(Which . onrnrandPer1i. 
is out of bus· ornrance
Th lness)
• R.; L ey Joi11 
c,, Codd 
Soe o· ens &
277-0734 •ckerson 




~ir 1Rirhttr s 
PERSONALIZED HAIR DESIGNS 
NEW HOURS: for men and women 
Monday thru Friday 9-8 Visit Our Location at 417 Dixieway North Saturday 8-3 in Roseland across from Wendy's 
-----------------------------------------1 

1,. NE)t?)~, ~ 





&~& J(S~. 

Fresh and Salt Water Fish -­
Live Aquarium Plants'" 
Aquariums and Supplies 
Hamsters Many Birds to 

Guinea Pigs Choose From 
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 
-----------------------------------------1 

SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 124, No. 2, October 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 3 The Placement Game 
The ins and outs ·of interviews ... 
5 The Students in Between 
Job market outlook for NO students ... 
8 Graduate Schools: Trends of Decline ... Advanced Education no longer popular? . . . 
10 Graduate School-Why and How To-
A guide for underclassmen . . . 
11 Movie Review/Missing. A Search for Truth 
Original soundtrack by Vangelis ... 
12 The Human Aspect 
Returning to the "good old days" in South Bend. . . 
14  Fighting an Uphill Battle Financing undergraduate education ...  
22  Race With the Exponential Stepan Chemistry Building dedicated ...  
24  A Temperate Feminist: Sonia Gemes  

Sonya Stinson 
Janet Drobinske 
Tim Judge 
Tara Jones 
Katie Gilligan 
Jackie Burns 
Dan McGrath 
Profile of a campus personality ... 
26 Book Review/Growing Up Late 
Review of The Way to St. Ives, by Sonia Gemes 
REGULARS 16 Gallery/The Patterns of Daily Life 18 Fiction/Chantp leure 19 Culture Update 20 Poetry 27 Perspective/Jim Shilts, I Miss You. 
Thank You for Your Life 31 Last Word 
Mary Powel Jabaley 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman 
C. Callahan Rick Keppel 
Brother Joe McTaggart, C.S.C. Beth Healy 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
OCTOBER, 1982 



/ta/inn Cuisine 
• Fettuccini • Lasagna
• Veal Parmigiana 
• Pizza • Pastas 
LUNCH • DINNER • CARRY OUT Wines & Cocktails 
18455 South Bend Avenue 
1 mile east af Notre Dame 
277-0578 
Ciosed Sun.-Mon. 

ill.es.eruatinns l\cc.e t.eh 
An offer you can't refuse 
froni 

Baskin Robbins 
31¢ off any fountain item with this coupon. 
Good for month of October. 
Oct. 1982 


HAND PACl(E0 FLAVORS 
1. Bl.ACK FOREST CAKE 17. Gold Medal Ribbon 2.Strawberry IB Cherry Bon Bon 3 CP'locclate 19 Chocolate Mousse RO)'ale 4 81,1r9undy Cherry 20, Banana 5 ChOcolale Almond 21. Piltacbo Almond Fudge 6 Chocalate Chip 22. Amaretto Cheesecake 7.Jarnoc:a• 23 CaramelF!Jd;e B Rocky Road 24. PL,mplun Pie 
9 ChOcoLate M1111 25. Whrlo ucorice 
10. Jamoca" Aknelnd Fudge 28. 0Ulilr1erblldl Ounch 
11. Butter Paean 27, Nuny Cocanlll 12. Chacoll,111 Fudge 28. Or-1ge Stlerblll 
13. French Van~la 29, Chilled Frull Tree Sherbet 
14. Prahnes 'n Crearn" .30. Rainbow Sherbel 
15.PaanulButlet''n 31,Daiquirik:e Chacolale 3Z. Graue lee t&.GennanChocollle Cake ... andofcaur.se, ~, 

LAMP SHADES -LAMP REPAIR -LAMP PARTS GLASS PARTS -LAMPS -LIGHTING FIXTURES 
Village Lamp Shoppe 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 52577 US 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 
(219) 272-0600 
Custom Lamp 
Shades 

ll!SKIN·ROlllllNS (00\ICE CREAM STORE \©J. 
Good at these Locations: 

University Commons Shopping Center 
Across from University Park Mall 
State Road 23 

523 W. McKinley Avenue, Mishawaka 

Come see 
Phone

our new 
277-2910

store at 
For


N. Village -PiZZA 
PARLOR 
The Best


Mall­

. '
US 31 N. 

,lllurlil"s ureate!;f piiza.
• ,..-. • • I ;r 


Any Large Pan




$2.00 
Family Size Pizza
OFF! or 
Expires: 11 / 6 / 82 
See what's shakin' at Shake 's·t 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
1982-1983 
EDITOR~IN-CHIEF' .Beth Healy . 
GEIIIERAL MANAGER 
PatPitz 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Sheila Beatty 
News/Sports Editor 
Dan McGrath" ­

Photo Editor 
Mike Delany 
St. Mary's Editor · · 
Tara Jones 

Copy Editors : 
Tom Wrobel 
Julie Wodarcyk 

Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 
Distribu.tion Manager · Michael Meek~ 

Business Manager: 
Jim Dever 
. Layout Editor Charles van Ravenswaay 

Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 
Advisor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B; 

Layout Staff: 
Mitch Werner, Brenaan Miggins, Tom Sapp, . J~ne Kopp, Mara Dunworth, Sue· Flynn · 
CREDITS Cover: 
Tamera Mams 

Illustrations: 
Sheila Beatty, p. 18; Laura Pheil, p. 21 
Photographs: 
Steve Kaine, p. 3, 4; Shane Little, p. 5, 7; 
Tom Ryan, p. 8, 9; Pat Pitz, p. 12, 13; In-. 
formation Services, p. 14, 15; Sandy Eitel, · . p. 22; John Costello, p. 24; Darlene Arm­.strong, p. 27 
SCHOLASTIC
2 




ft,, 
Impressions weigh heavily in the job hunts of senior college students. Companies use their recruiting ef­forts to attract the type of student they want. The student tries to make a good impression on the company he feels is right for him. At Notre Dame, most students spending their last year under the Dome are some­what preoccupied with their efforts to study, dress, and act the part of the successful job searcher. 
Students starch their collars and iron their skirts and get ready to put on the professional look that poten­tial employers expect. The sight of a friend whose usual uniform is jeans and sweat shirts decked out in a three-piece suit and tie brings know­ing smiles and well-wishes for a suc­cessful interview. Some students not only dress the part, they rehearse it. With their roommates acting as in­terviewers, they go over the sample questions in the Placement Manual. The object is to think of creative and sensible answers to questions like "Why should I hire you?" and "What do you really want to do in life?" before you face the interviewer. 
Students are careful about making a good impression. But they are just. as careful about making sure they 
OCTOBER, 1982 
find the job and employer that meet their expectations. The Placement Manual advises the job searcher: "You should try to evaluate any job offer and the employer with the same thoroughness and objectivity as the employer does you." Students mak­ing the job search are making one of the most important decisions of their lives. 
Before making the final decision there are other preliminary decisions to make. The first choice the student makes is which companies to inter­view with. The most important con­sideration is probably the type of firm and the positions it wants to fill. The students who are sure of what they want can pick and choose from the several hundred firms that come to Notre Dame. 
We often think of business majors as the group which is the most "set" for careers. Companies recruit heav­ily for Notre Dame business majors, and those seeking accounting majors begin interviewing almost a week before everyone else. 
Renee Antolik, a senior account­ing major last year, interviewed with about a dozen firms. With only two rejections out of all the companies she considered, she had a lot of op­tions. She finally accepted a job from Arthur Young & Co., in Richmond, Virginia. 
Some students like to think of their first interview as testing ground. They see a company listed that they think might interest them, but they don't really expect to be hired and they are not sure they want the job. Some of them feel that they have to take such whimsical chances if they want to get a job. Others want a practice interview to prepare them for the "real thing." 
Eileen Wirley, who graduated (last) May as an American Studies­Computer Applications double major, had her "practice" interview with Burlington Northern, a railroad com­pany. As it turned out, both Eileen and the recruiter were looking for something else. "The guy was really interested in December graduates and told me so," she commented. 
Eileen thinks most recruiters can tell when you are not too interested in a job. And recruiter Rusty Mc­Cloy of Chemical Bank warns that practice interviews can be marks against the student. "Students shouldn't be taking interviews to test their interview skills," · she said. "When they do, the school gets marked as one where this sort of thing happens and recruiters don't return." 

The Placement Manual has a lot to say against students taking inter­views when their interests and quali­fications don't match employers' needs. The Placement Bureau's ca­reer counseling efforts and interview scheduling have some weight in the success or failure of match-ups be­tween students and employers. 
Placement specialist Paul Reyn­olds counsels students and helps to coordinate the recruiting efforts of employers. Reynolds deals mainly with. liberal arts majors and MBA 
For graduating students, job interviews are an im­portant part of their final year, and the game of impressions can mean a brighter future. 
students. "We try to go through a self-assessment. We talk about what the student's values, skills, and goals are,'' said Reynolds of his counseling method. 
Reynolds views the Placement Bu­reau as a starting point for the job searcher. "The student has to do something above and beyond what goes on at the Placement Bureau," he said. He recommends mail cam­paigns, personal contacts through family, friends, and faculty, tele­phone calls, and personal visits to firms. 
In order to meet prospective em­ployers on campus, seniors must comply with a few formalities. First, they must fill out the Student Regis­tration Form and the Profile Form, which is similar to a resume. They must type the Profile and return it with the Registration Form to the Placement Bureau during any week prior to signing up for their first interview. 
Next, they look through the Place­ment Manual and select the com­panies they want to interview with. Each week they must fill out an Interview Preference Form, making a copy for themselves and turning the other one in at the Placement Bureau. 
The Placement Bureau now has a computerized interview scheduling system to replace the old first-come­first-served system. The process now works on a system of priorities. The first priority is the student's gradua­tion date. The computer selects cur-

Placement Office 
rent graduates first. Next, students who name a company as their top priority preference have an edge over other students seeking interviews with that firm, if there are not enough slots for everyone. Finally, the computer selects those students with the least number of interviews. 
Students say the new system is better than the old one, but there are still some drawbacks. "It's better than starting out at 4 a.m. to get an interview," said Eileen. "I got all the interviews I wanted. But a lot of people didn't get what they wanted; and it seemed to some that certain people always got interviews while others got bumped." 
Renee commented, "There were times that I got bumped when I should have had first priority." Most of the time the computer caused the error, she thinks. She explained that when a student is bumped, he has to take the chance that the company will send extra interviewers or that someone else will drop an interview. But overall, she sees the computer system as a big improvement. "I know I never would have gotten the number of interviews I did if I had had to wait in line for them," she acknowledged. 

<'-' 
Sonya Stinson is a senior American Studies major from Nashville, TN. This is her first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
When a student is sche.duled for an interview, her or she can go through several steps to prepare for it. The Placement Bureau has em­ployer literature available for stu­dents who want to find out more about the company and consider questions to ask employers. And the 
(cont'd on page 30) 
SCHOLASTIC 
.-----.-.--. -----~ \ . ­
-~ • J -' • .,. • • 
"Grim" ... "Worst in recent years" 
.. "Going to be tough" ... "Tight 
everywhere" ... "Very, very com­petitive." ... These phrases express-----+-----+------the views of various campus leaders---------------­analyzing the job market 1983 gradu­ates of Notre Dame will face. Yet while everyone seems to agree! this will not be a banner year for any particular industry across the na­tion, the experts also are unanimous on Notre Dame's place in all this-we appear to be in better shape than most institutions of higher learning. Class of '83, take heart. You've got a 
fighting chance. 
The Students in Between 
Despite the gloom and the doom, Notre Dame graduates still have a fighting chance. 
OCTOBER, 1982 
In preparing for this article, I talked with several college deans, in addition to Mr. Richard Willemin, Director of the University's Place­ment Bureau. Mr. Willemin, specifi­cally, addressed Notre Dame stu­dents' advantages in the job hunt. 
"We're a national school, drawing students from every state, and inter­national locations as well. Therefore, we're popular with not only Mid­western firms, but national corpora­tions, too." Although ND graduates this year should expect to work hard in their job search, they can also ex­pect to meet with more success than peers at many other colleges and universities. 
The director cites an example from his contacts with directors at other placement bureaus. "Consider Michi­gan State," he states. "There, with approximately fifteen thousand grad­uates per year, they still attract ba­sically just Midwestern firms, and particularly organizations from their home state. And considering the high rate of unemployment in Michigan, that's got to be less than promising." 
In turn, Notre Dame's graduates this year, standing again at roughly 2,000, don't seem likely to face such difficulty. There are currently ap­proximately four hundred firms com-
by Janet Drobinske 
ing during the '82-'83 campaign, and 
while this number is slightly lower 
than in the past, Willemin is quick to 
analyze the cause of the decline. 
"Things are rough for everyone, 
nationwide. Many firms are in a bind 
now, where they're uncertain if 
they'll be able to hire new recruits. 
!i
According to the government, things 
are supposed to improve in the 
spring, and firms apparently are in 
agreement with this. Thus far, we 
don't have a single cancellation for 
interviews in the second semester." 
Some companies, he says, are keep­
ing their commitment to come here 
to interview, but it may be several 
months before they are able. to make 
a decision as to the number they can 
afford to hire. 
Not surprisingly, there is a varia­tion among the colleges at ND, and even within majors, concerning fu­ture employability. The Colleges of Business Administration and Engi­neering, for example, are usually noted for their success in the job market. This is generally attributed to their preparation of students with particular vocational skills, such as accounting or technical engineering knowledge. Should this news in­spire you to trade in your Descartes .for Principles of Business Law, stop 
5 

and consider some important con­clusions about the College of Arts and Letters. While traditional ru­mors abound that Arts and Letters students are not employable, Asst. Dean Robert J. Waddick contends that many are misinformed concern­ing the success of Arts and Letters students in the job search. First, it should be noted that the largest single denomination of A & L stu­dents goes on to law school, more than are even involved in a job hunt. In last year's graduating class, 147 students went on to law school, while only 119 even attempted to find a work career. Waddick cites the latter figure as an increase, saying that every year more students go directly into careers, particularly the women graduates. The College of Arts and Letters is also the largest "supplier" of those involved in volunteer ser­vices upon graduation. Thirty stu­dents entered that field last year, with Arts and Letters contributing 
twenty-four. It should also be noted that the overall percentage of stu­dents going to some type of graduate school was 39.3 for the Class of 1982. In the 1960s, however, well over half of the University undergraduates went on to advanced study. Does this indicate an increasing concern for immediate employability? 
"I don't think so," says Willemin. "I maintain that most students en­rolled at Notre Dame are here for the excellent education we have to offer. The Admissions Office data in­dicates that we have topflight stu­dents in attendance here--ones who have been concerned with obtaining a good education throughout their earlier years." Many do feel, he al­lows, that the key to subsequent suc­cess in the job market is a good college background and the training and knowledge received there. 
Overall, Notre Dame students have a lot to offer the labor force, accord­ing to campus leaders. Particularly 
in the College of .Arts .and Letters, there seems to be a growing opti­mism concerning the students' ca­pacity for contribution to industrial careers. The Computer Applications Program (CAPP) and Arts and Let­ters Program for Administrators (ALPA) seem popular and success­ful, and the Arts and Letters Pre­professional (ALPP) alternative en­joys a high level of success in placing its graduates in health and profes­sional schools. These option-oriented, multidimensional programs stem from a growing concern to equip the Arts and Letters student with mar­ketable, more technical skills, in addition to good communication 
6 
skills, writing ability, well-developed reasoning techniques, and the ability to deal with people in an articulate and thoughtful manner. These are skills, Waddick says, that are too frequently overlooked by, surprising­ly, the students themselves. "Arts and Letters students tend to suffer from an inferiority complex, a feel­ing that they can't quite compete with the business or engineering stu­dents in the job market." 
Due to the decline in the economy, and particularly in the labor force in the last two years, the deans feel the students must take more initia­tive in the job hunt. Assistant Dean Jerry Marley of the College of Engi­neering had this to say: "The Class of 1981 had a much easier time than this year's graduates can expect to face. While we're still expecting to place a high number in the job market, there is a significant change in what the students' role will be in locating a job." Marley cites that in 1981 many students, particularly those in accounting or engineering, did not have to make a concerted effort, they could leave that up to the firms themselves. The students were, in essence, "sought out." While this was not true for the Class of '82, and is not likely to be the situation for this year's grads, Marley indi­cates that if his students pursue a career, they will be likely to meet with success. He stresses, however, that they can no longer have a laid­back attitude toward their employ­ability. 
Dean Waddick elaborates, "The students must learn they have to make a sincere commitment toward the job search." He urges that stu­dents, particularly those in the Col­leges of Science and Arts and Let­ters, keep their options open. He suggests taking interviews, while si­multaneously applying to graduate schools, for those who feel uncertain as to their postgraduate route. If both are ultimately available, he feels the student is in a much better position to decide what's best for him or her. 
There doesn't seem to be any deny­
ing that Notre Dame undergraduates 
are, on the whole, very competitive 
for grades. How important is the 
GPA in the job search? Well, con­
sider some surprising information. 
The grade point average doesn't seem 
especially significant to prospective 
employers, as far as slight variations 
are concerned. For example, a survey 
conducted by the Department of 
Analytical Studies reveals some in­
teresting statistics. For the Class of 
'82, the mean GPA for those success­
ful in the job search stood at 2.965, with the average for those not find­ing employment slightly higher at 
2.985. Breaking it down college by college, the variances appear even stronger. In Arts and Letters for example, the mean GPAs for those successful in the job search was 3.03, while for those unsuccessful, the fig­ure was 3.11. In Business Adminis­tration, we find the lone example of a higher GPA for those gaining em­ployment, 3.18, as compared to 2.99. In Engineering, the numbers were 
2.85 for those successful, 2.9 for those reporting no luck in the job hunt. In Science, the picture was pretty much the same, with a 2.8 GPA the established average for those proving successful, and 2.9 for those not meeting with success. 
This data supports what college deans have long been maintaining­it comes down to a lot more than how many A's you're able to ac­cumulate. They stress the importance of the individual's presentation of personal strengths and abilities. 
Through what method do the suc­cessful career-seekers attain a posi­tion? The Analytical Studies Depart­ment survey revealed that 56% of the 1982 graduates successful in pursuing a career found their jobs through the Placement Bureau in­terviews and contacts. Of those finding jobs 13.1% were successful through an extensive personal mail­ing campaign; 2 % achieved a posi­tion through a faculty contact; 4.9 % through a friend; 4.7% by a family tie; and a surprisingly high J,2.7 % through previous employment. 
As far as salaries for these stu­
dents go, in 1982 the mean salary 
for Arts and Letters graduates was 
$20,988; in Business Administration, 
$19,021; in Science, $18,358; and for 
Engineering graduates, a University­
high of $22,893. The analytical 
studies survey report lists the aver­
age starting salary for all 1982 grad­
uates as $21,216, which is a 9% in­
crease over the $19,200' average the 
1981 graduates attained. And while 
male graduates were earning $865.00 
more on the average than their fe­
male counterparts in 1981, the sur­
vey study reveals that in 1982 the 
difference was cut to only $219.00. 
Allowing that this trend is ex­
pected to continue through this 
year's graduating class, Dean Marley 
notes an interesting change in the 
role of women in engineering. 
"Eight to ten years ago, women were highly sought after and re­ceived, on the average, higher sala­ries than men were commanding at the time. However, in more recent 
SCHOLASTIC 

years, there seems to be less of a discrimination between the genders -the difference in salary now is al­most nondistinguishable.'' 
Marley notes that women still comprise only 3% of the engineering field in this country. Still, the indus­try itself is growing rapidly. "In 1976, we graduated 153 students from this college. Last year, the fig­ure stood at 303." When asked to explain the growing phenomenon, Marley offered two main reasons. He proposes that it is perhaps partially due to the students' concern for de­veloping a skillful trade and attain­ing technical knowledge. But what may be more significant, he says, is that the image of the engineer is changing in a positive manner. "In the early seventies, there was a lot of negative thought projected about en­gineers. They were, after all, the ones developing the chemicals and substances used in the Vietnam war that have come under so much con­troversy. Today's engineer is more respected. I think students at Notre Dame recognize the rigorous and de­manding program as a challenge that is not easily attempted." 
While Marley suggests no major differences in the employability of different types of engineering, say­ing they are all about equally suc­cessful, Dean Waddick notes some differences in Arts and Letters. 
"Last year, the students in certain majors achieved higher success rates than in others. Not surprisingly, more American Studies students were placed in the job market, fol­lowed by Economics majors. Third on the list was Government, fol­lowed by Psychology." While the ALPA program students face the job market for the first time in 1983, the CAPP program has already enjoyed tremendous acclaim in its brief his­tory. In 1982, 100% of the CAPP majors were successful in the job hunt. The ALPP program also is rec­ognized as having a high level of achievement, placing anywhere from 
69 to 89 % of its graduates in health 
and professional schools in ·recent 
years. 
Some majors, Waddick admits, 
lend themselves to graduate work 
more readily, and students are aware 
of this. Asked if he felt students en­
tered a certain major in hopes of 
becoming more employable, Waddick 
stated that he felt most students 
pursued a major they thought would 
be enjoyable and interesting for 
them. Asst. Dean Kathleen M. Wei­
gert noted the important contribu­
tion of a liberal education in the job 
search. "I think we try to provide the 
OCTOBER, 1982 
students with a perspective of values, allowing a sensitivity to people and problems, that lies at the heart of being successful in a career." 
The Business School has tradi­tionally turned out students success­ful in the job hunt. Last year, the largest undergraduate major, by far, was Accountancy, with 282 students involved in the program. These stu­dents represented 46 % of all those enrolled in the College of Business Administration. They represented, as well, a large chunk of those suc­cessful in the job search. Despite the department's vastness, they could boast of a very low percentage of students unable to procure a job 
(just above 10%). Comparatively, the other undergraduate majors in the College of Business Administra­tion did not fare quite as well in last year's job market. Approximately twenty percent of finance majors re­ported success in their search for a job, with a similar figure reported for those enrolled in the Management major. For last year's marketing majors, there seemed to be a fair amount of success, with roughly 25 % of the students going into the indus­try. When interpreting these percen­tages, however, it is crucial -to re­member that not all undergraduates are pursuing an immediate career­a good number are planning to attend graduate schools. In addition, data may only be gathered on those stu­dents who respond to the survey sent out by the Registrar. Yet they do offer some general guidelines to be considered. 
The College of Science reports the highest percentage of students going on to advanced study. Indeed, the Class of 1982 Science graduates re­sponding to the survey compiled 
some staggering figures. Of the two hundred fifty-five students returning the survey, two hundred and nine in­dicated they would be attending health and professional schools upon their undergraduate graduation. The largest number of these, 61 %, stated 
they would be attending medical school, while others reported they were headed for dental school, law school, MBA school, or on to ad­vanced study in their major. 
However, for the relatively small number looking for jobs last spring, the Science students recorded a suc­cess rate of just under forty percent. This is comparable to the success proportion of the University's other colleges. In evaluating last year's progress, one should recall that 1982 was an especially competitive year in the job market. With many firms declining to recruit due to the effects of the recession, the figures seem sur­prisingly high. 
What does all this spell out for the 1983 graduates looking for work? There are some important conclu­sions to be made concerning Notre Dame students themselves. All those I spoke to stressed a necessity for students to take on responsibility in their job search, no matter what field they are pursuing. It is important to keep options open, and students will probably find that they have to be more flexible than they originally in­tended. Certain locations or regions are more competitive than ·others, for example, and 1983 graduates should be realistic in their expecta­tions. Regardless of the direction students follow in their postgraduate plans, whether it be advanced study or the seeking out of a work career, their commitment must be an ardent and determined one if they anticipate being successful. Notre Dame stu­dents have the capacity to fare well this spring, relatively speaking, in the light of the somewhat dim econ­
omy. The University provides solid background for a variety of pursuits, and despite the downward trend in the labor situation, 1983 ND grads should once again be recognized as top recruits by the nation's industrial firms. D 
... ..
·"" 
~-"""­
_.-.-..... ·-~-~--.·~.... '' . '~. ­

Janet Drobinske is a junior Amm-ican Studies/CAPP major from Wood­cliff Lake, NJ. This is her first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
7 

Graduate Schools: Trends of Decline 
by Tim Judge 
More and more, graduating seniors favor entering the job market immediately after graduation. Increased opportunity in industry, decreasing capital and enrollments, have put graduate schools in a potentially dangerous situation. 
In the "Camelot years" of the 1960s, education had an open-ended future. Colleges and universities, concerned with keeping pace with the burgeoning populace of students, were not considering the limits of expansion. Scholarship funds abound­ed, available to a.ny good student considering graduate school. Gradu­ate school was a common, popular alternative to entering careers in business. Opportunities for careers in academia were very good. Today, the number of students graduating with bachelor's degrees entering bus­iness and industry has drastically in­creased; graduate school enrollments have plummeted. 
In the June 14 issue, Newsweek cites a study of twenty major col­leges and universities indicating the rapid drop in graduate departments of the humanities: 32 percent decline in enrollments between 1972 and 1980. Roger Schmitz, dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, notes that undergraduate en­rollment has doubled in engineering in the last seven years at Notre Dame, while graduate enrollment has declined. 
More and more, graduating seniors favor entering the job market imme­diately after graduation. "There is a definite rise in the number of BAs going straight to work," says Robert Waddick, assistant dean in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. Students 
8 
demand "practical" majors -busi­ness, economics, engineering-gear­ing themselves to possible profes­sional careers. '"Pressure to make good on the investment in an educa­tion is a definite factor in choosing a major, especially in Arts and Let­ters,'' says Waddick. Because the costs of education are so high, even in state schools, students feel a need to begin earning money quickly. Many students, left with debts from students loans, feel added pressure. 
Advanced degrees can be both detrimental or beneficial in career development. According to Larry Ballinger, director of MBA admis­sions, MBA degrees are often used as "screens" by recruiting companies­those without MBAs simply are not interviewed. "Without an MBA, ca­reers in business may be limited; doors are often shut," he says. In the sciences, Ph.D.s face keen competi­tion for jobs; those with bachelor's degrees find jobs more easily. Yet, those doctorates who do find jobs enjoy greater freedom, challenge and most likely higher salaries than those with a BS. 
Liberal Arts doctorates find few opportunities in traditional fields and are limited by stereotypes in other fields. Robert Gordon, Notre Dame's vice president for Advanced Studies, says it is largely a misconception that a Ph.D. in English could not take a job in industry. However, many with master's or Ph.D.s in the humanities are regarded as over­qualified. Whether the "degree as dollars" is a myth or a fact is irrele­vant since so many students believe it is true. 
Areas of employment traditionally associated with holders of advanced degrees in the humanities-anthro­pologists, historians, sociologists, physicists, teachers-are contract­ing. High technology fields are rap­idly growing as well as certain areas of business. The Occupational Out­look Quarterly (OOQ) (Spring, 1982) published by the Department of Labor projects growth rates in a variety of fields. College and uni­versity faculty positions are expected to decrease by 9 percent over the period 1980-90. Accountants and auditors are expected to increase by 25-34 percent over the same period. Engineers are expected to grow by 27-37 percent and lawyers by 25-39 percent. The projected national aver­age growth rate for all occupations is between 17 and 25 percent. Tech­nical abilities .are in demand; even in such fields as "writers and edi­tors." The OOG states, "Best job prospects in technical writing and preparing business statements." In summarizing employment prospects in careers such as historians, sociolo­gists and economists, the OOQ re­peatedly uses phrases like, "nearly all jobs will be in nonacademic areas." 
Because demand in some fields is exceptionally high, industry can drain faculty from universities. Ca0 reers in biophysics, applied mathe­matics, solid state physics, and other "hot" areas of expanding technology are simply too attractive for many professors to resist. Not only are salaries higher but often research opportunities and funds are signifi­cantly higher. The loss of faculty to industry has reached a "critical stage" says Ballinger. In business schools, twenty percent of faculty positions are unfilled; in engineering, ten percent are unfilled. Some posi­tions in science and mathematics are nearly unfillable; oftentimes, as soon as one position is filled, another is vacated. Notre Dame has had some troubles filling certain positions ( es­pecially in science and _math) but has not experienced the'· drain many schools have. 
The job market alone does not ac­count for the trend away from grad­uate schools. Decreasing capital and enrollments in universities force schools to cut back on programs as budgets tighten and students disap­pear. Retrenchment has become the theme in many administration halls. 
The baby boom of the sixties has now reversed: birthrates are fow; families are smaller. Thus, the col­lege-age population will remain low until the 1990s. Fewer children mean fewer adolescents readying for col­lege and fewer undergraduates to go 
SCHOLASTIC 
--. --~ 1 • ' • • ­, . -, } ~ .... . . 

to graduate school. State schools, heavily dependent on available popu­lations for enrollment, will suffer most; selective private universities will be affected less since their en­rollments are tied to their reputa­tions. In the late 1990s, birthrates are predicted to be high again but many are concerned with the effects the lean years may have. 
Coupled with shrinking enroll-. ments is a tight money situation. Be­sides the general economic condition of recession, education has been seri­ously affected by federal cuts. Gradu­ate studies are directly dependent on funding for research and study; fed­eral dollars are vital to funding grad­uate studies. "In the humanities al­most no one goes to graduate school unless he is fully funded," says Nathan Hatch, director of graduate studies in History. Gordon adds, "Many schools will not accept a stu­dent into a graduate program if he can't be fully funded." Eighty per­cent of Notre Dame graduate stu­
, dents receive funding of some kind. 
In the past, students easily ob­tained federal funding. Numerous agencies existed to facilitate gradu­ate studies: the National Science Foundation, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, the Danforth Scholar­ships and others constituted a wealth of financial sources for graduate stu­dents to draw on. "Now these sources have evaporated and no alternatives have been generated," says Michael Loux, chairman of Notre Dame's philosophy department. Past and present federal administrations have cut the fellowship and grant pro­grams to help balance the national budget. Unfortunately, "small cuts in the national budget are crucial losses to academic research," says Frank Castellino, dean of the College of Science. 
Robert Waddick, Asst. Dean 

OCTOBER, 1982 
Roger Schmitz, Dean 
Sciences seem especially sensitive to cuts in research. Graduate stu­dents in sciences receive grants for particular research; their grants are tied to their kind of research. Thus, students must receive approval for their experimental work prior to re­ceiving funds and must confine their research to the area approved. Since researchers are so dependent on fed­eral funds, cutbacks in the federal sources directly cause cutbacks in research. In the private sector, money is abundant and constraints on re­search are fewer, but freedom of publication is severely limited. The present federal administration hopes the private sector will replace federal funding. However, private money is likely to have strings attached ­targeting for certain areas and lim­itations on publication of findings. "Why go to a university for research, if you will be doing the same re­search industry is doing?" asks Schmitz. Whether private industry can supply capital on the scale the government has in the past is un­clear. 
College of Arts & Letters 
/
;,;;c____-~~ 
College of Engineering 
The humanities face cuts as seri­ous as science does. "I .believe Arts and Letters will be harder hit than science. The humanities have always had trouble with funding and now they stand to lose what little they have," says Schmitz. 
Demands of industry coupled with declining enrollments and a con­tracting economy have combined to decrease the demand for graduate education. Careers traditionally asso­ciated with advanced degrees in hu­manities are so tight as to discourage a potential graduate student; oppor­tunities in science-related fields are so good that many students cannot pass them up. Demand seems to cre­ate its own supply; yet, saturation is already occurring in some areas: MBA, law, and chemical engineering. Can we simply label the present "crisis" as just another cycle in the demand vs. supply of careers? Will the present low point of the cycle soon improve given the natural laws involved in the job market and fi­nancing education? Or are graduate studies tci suffer lasting effects from this "cycle"? 
Professor Loux believes fewer un­dergraduates are going on to gradu­ate schools and receiving graduate degrees. However, he does not believe the graduate schools are missing the brightest students, those best suited for graduate school and academia, at least, no more than in the past. "Fewer are going into graduate schools and fewer are coming out of graduate schools but that is just what we want since there are so few jobs in academia," he says. Hatch agrees: "The decline in enrollments in .graduate schools is due less to being drawn away than to being dis­couraged by the shrinking economic future." Hatch believes some liberal 
(cont'd on page 29) 
9 

•

Graduate Sc_hool-Why and How To-
Graduate school is a nebulous con­cept for most underclassmen which doesn't become a reality until senior year. For seniors, it's probably the cause of many "senior ailments"­premature graying, a sudden appear­ance of wrinkles, ulcers and ·some­times even senility. Every college student at one point in his or her college career must face the decision of whether or not to go to graduate school. Therefore, for underclassmen to stay ahead of the game and side­step a lot of needless worry, it is a good idea to start thinking about graduate school right now. 
One of the first things each person must ask him-or herself is "Why do I want to go to graduate school?" If the answer is either "I'm going because everyone else seems to be doing it," or "I don't want to have to face the task of finding a job right now," then serious reconsidera­tion about graduate school needs to take place. I hope the -following in­formation about graduate school will make the reasons to go to grad­uate school clearer and the decision a little easier. 
There are a few important facts about graduate school that are often overlooked. First of all, the job pos­sibilities for a person with a gradu­ate degree are somewhat fewer than those for an individual who applies directly out of college because grad students specialize in a specific area of study. Also, getting a graduate degree takes time; 1-2 years for a master's, and 4-8 years for a Ph.D. Grad school is more concentrated than undergraduate work; a lot more effort and studying are necessary to obtain an MA or Ph.D. 
Many students want to go to grad school but don't know when they should go. There are two avenues to take, either going right out of col­lege, or getting a job and work ex­perience before going. There are cer­tain benefits to each option. For in­stance, if the student decides to go to grad school right after college, he or she is accustomed to the aca­demic life and its requirements. Also, the student has easier access to any assistance, both financial and teacher recommendations. However, some grad schools prefer their applicants to have worked in their particular field of interest before applying. 
10 
Work experience also helps for any research that may be required in the individual's grad program. Some grad programs require that the stu­dents apply right out of college. For example, medical schools require im­mediate application and recruit stu­dents directly from the undergrad program. Therefore, depending on the student's intent for grad school, the time to go is left up to the individual. 
There are four areas to assess when looking at prospective grad schools. First of all, one should con­sider the cost-not just tuition and room and board, but "hidden costs" such as books, transportation, and so forth. It's a good idea to compare the cost of living of one school to another as they can differ greatly. Secondly, the individual should look at the location of the school-is it helpful to the individual's planned grad program? Also, the size of the school should complement the stu­dent's preference. The third area to consider is the type of program that's offered. What is expected of the students in each program? (Com­pare the expectations of different grad programs-they vary signifi­cantly.) How many courses are re­quired for a master's degree? A Ph.D.? Is there a language require­ment? (Many grad programs require that the individual be fluent in a language for a graduate degree.) The fourth, and most important point to consider is the quality of each pro­gram. The student should study the number and diversity of faculty ­their commitment to the program, the research they have done, 1 and the works they have had published. Also, it is good to get firsthand information (usually from students who have attended) about the repu­tation of the school. What about the admission standards? Who has ac­credited the program? This informa­tion can be obtained from college advisors and counselors. 
A few other areas to look at are the number of assistantships awarded by the separate departments for such work as grading papers and tests, part-time teaching and research. Find out if the school offers fellow­ships, based on scholastic record with no teaching obligation. Also, does the grad program assist in 
by Tara Jones 
finding a student a job and what percentage of graduates find jobs? 
Start thinking about which grad school to go to during junior year of college. By doing this, the indi­vidual is free senior year to apply to the preferred graduate program. Most grad schools want to have the applications in by the beginning of spring semester of senior year and have deadlines for financial aid and scholarship applications. It's a good idea to get applications submitted early in the senior year. 
All grad schools have admission requirements, including admissions tests. There· are several different types of admissions tests: the Grad­uate Record Exam (GRE), the Medi­cal College Admissions Test (MCAT), the Graduate Management Admis­sions Test (GMAT), and the Law School Aptitude Test (LSAT). Some schools also require a nonrefundable application fee. Besides the score on the admissions test, one of the most important admissions requirements is the individual's college grade point average. Many schools have a mini­mum grade point average and/or test score for admissions eligibility, financial aid, and scholarships. 
Other points to think about in­clude the job possibilities before and after a graduate degree is obtained -which looks more promising? If possible, visit schools of interest to get firsthand information. Talking with an advisor or head of the stu­dent's undergraduate department will prove extremely beneficial be­cause they will most likely have in­formation available about specific grad schools and programs. Pearson's Guide to Graduate Study provides a good amount of information on grad schools and details about specific programs. 0) 
Graduate school is tough. It re­quires a lot of work and commit­ment. Those who want to further their education can find a lot of satisfaction and enjoyment in grad­uate school. The master's and Ph.D. degrees are major accomplishments. Looking at grad schools, types of financial aid, scholarships, degree requirements, etc. will make prepara­tion for graduate school easier and even a challenge. D 
Tara Jones, junior major from Tempe, AZ, is Saint Mary's Editor for Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 
. . . ' ' . ' . 
• • .,; ... -•.I. • 

Cinema 
MISSING. A Search For Truth 
A film released by Universal Studios; directed by Costa­Gavras; produced by Edward Lewis and Mildred Lewis; with Sissy Spacek, Jack Lemmon, and John Shea. 
Universal" Studio's film Missing is a provocative look at U.S. involve­ment in Chile, and the confusion that arises in individuals' search for truth iri a situation perhaps inundated with lies. 
The story is true in that a young American named Charles Horman was killed during the 1973 coup in Chile; a coup in which the U.S. gov­ernment has repeatedly denied in­volvement. While the plot centers on a father's search for his son, Charles, and the snags and snarls of bu­reaucracy, a subplot deals with the father's widening understanding of his son's lifestyle and ideology, which differ greatly from his own. 
Directed by the Greek filmmaker, Costa-Gavras, Missing deeply roots this clash of ideologies in personal struggles of individuals, which wreaks havoc on the viewers' emo­tions. 
Edmond Horman, played by Jack Lemmon, is a successful New York businessman who flies to Chile soon after the coup when his daughter-in­law, Beth (played by Sissy Spacek), reports her husband missing. Hor­man's attitude is one of unnecessary inconvenience brought on by his son's and daughter-in-law's "free and easy" lifestyle. He is disappointed in the free-lance writer and illustrator career his son has chosen. He ex­pects to find his son without diffi­culty as he approaches the U.S. em­bassy. 
His unquestioned patriotism weak­ens, however, as he experiences the postcoup oppression in Santiago, and the "runaround" from embassy officials. In short, the officials be­come the "enemy" and his daughter­in-law, his only ally. In Beth, he be­gins to see a value and enthusiasm in his son's life which he never saw before. Throughout the film the ten­sion mounts as Beth suspects dis­honesty in the State Department and Horman wearies in the search. · 
At one point, an embassy official finds Horman at a Christian Science reading room where the father has retreated for a bit of quiet. The offi­cial asks Horman what Christian Science is about. His response, "It's about faith." When the young official persists, Horman elaborates, "Faith in the truth." 
When the embassy tarries, Hor­man launches a private investigation. He finds his son in a room of decay­ing bodies and returns to the em­bassy to report the news. Only then, a day later, does the embassy con­firm that there is, in fact, some rec­ord of Charles' death. The father and daughter-in-law return to the States broken and discouraged. 
····Wherein lies the truth? The U.S. State Department has issued a three­page statement on Missing, charging that the film manipulates the truth. Edmond Horman did find his own truth and has, in reality, spent much of his life trying to act on that truth. He filed suit against everyone, start­ing with Henry Kissinger, but his case has not been heard. The emo­tional suspense undoubtedly raises suspicions for the viewer. It is a movie well worth seeing, if for no other reason·than a concrete example that Americans do not necessarily know what the State Department is doing. Whether or not they should know is a whole other subject. 
CILA the Community for the In­ternatio~al Lay Apostolate, will sponsor Missing on campus October 12 and 13 at 7:00, 9:15, and 11:30 p.m., in the Engineering Audi­torium. D 

Patty Norrbom Beauty Consultant 1758 Crestwood Blvd. South Bend. Indiana 
l offer FREE complimen­tary facials which I will do 
w4e Qrnlnnial Jancaltt llinuse 
at your home or you may come to mine. The facial takes from 1 ½-2 hours. 
Featuring: 
Oven-baked omelettes and apple pancakes. 
When the facial is com­
All batters hand-made in our kitchen with fresh ingredients. 
pleted you are ready to face the world with a 
Banquet facilities for 60. fresh-new-lovely look. 
For A Free 
U.S. 31 North in Roseland (Across from the Holiday Inn) 272-7433 Open 7 days a week at 6:30 a.m. 
Complimentary Facial Call: (219) 232-6220. 
OCTOBER, 1982 
11 
: . .. ~--­
. 
1' 

by Katie Gilligan
The Human Aspect 
For the people of South Bend, The Farmer's Market has for fifty years provided good food, good prices, and a lot of good old­fashioned charm. 
At 5:30 a.m., South Bend sleeps. Cool night air lingers as the sun slowly climbs above the horizon, bringing the promise of a beautiful . April morning. Another Tuesday is beginning. 
But for Norma Nelson, and her brother, Wayne Sawyer, the day is already under way. With a practiced tug, Norma pulls a tray of pork ribs from the freezer, and begins to ar­range them in the refrigerated dis­play case. Wayne, in the back, slices a ham, today's special. They are farm people, and by 5: 30 a.m., they have traveled 25 miles to open their meat and cheese products stall in South Bend's Farmer's Market. 
12 
The Farmer's Market, Inc., at 760 
S. Eddy St., has been a well-run, well-known, and well-loved establish­ment in Michiana for over 50 years. It attracts both vendors and cus­tomers from as near as Elkhart and Mishawaka, and as far as Chicago and Cleveland. The market, no longer the controversial innovation it once was in 1919, has managed to survive the eras of shopping malls, conveni­erice centers, and supermarket chains. Some attribute its success to the high quality of the goods sold there. Some say tradition brings .the customers back. Although these perceptions are valid, it is undoubtedly the family­like atmosphere and the friendly people that have made the Farmer's Market the success and .the legend that it is. · · 
"Yep, I've been coming here to sell for 50 years," said Wayne Sawyer. "Well, really, only here, at this stall, for 48 years. We were down a little further, for two years, when we first started selling." 
Wayne and Norma were literally raised in the Market. Their parents were some of the original 50 in­vestors who petitioned Mayor Charles Goetz to consider building a common · marketplace, which would benefit the farmer and the community. Sawyer Meats began when the Market was allowed to operate, at the foot of the Colfax Avenue bridge. In the late Twenties, the market was relocated to a temporary site, on the corner of Sample and Fellow streets, and then to the landing of the Sample Street bridge. The Market ha_s. remained in this location, but had to be renovated in September, 1971, when it was heavily damaged in a fire. Its pre­vious H-shaped design was replaced by an 0-shaped construction, as it appears today. 
Sawyer Meats, then, as now, of­fers home-cured meats, and carefully aged cheeses. Wayne owns the family business, and his sister works at the counter for him. 
"It was just sort of a 'hand-me­down.' Experience-wise, that is/' Wayne said. "I was born jn the (meat) packinghouse, and have been slaughtering since I was knee-high to a grasshopper! I guess it was just automatic that I came here." 
SCHOLASTIC 
The Sawyer stall is the oldest; it is the only one left of the original investors' businesses. Selling their meats has become "their whole life." "I love it, and I love the people I meet. Especially the people!" Norma said. Over the years, they've estab­lished a patronage, with some cus­tomers that are as regular as the sausage-promotion clock on the wall behind the counter. 
"There are some that are still with us from when we first started," said Norma. "I don't know all their names, but I remember the faces. Heck, it's just like we're all one family. Us, 
the customers, the other vendors. 
... Isn't that right, Tom?" 
Norma's question was directed to Tom Klug, a fresh produce pro­prietor, who owns the stall across the aisle from Sawyer Meats. 
"Sure is! And if it's not, we'll sure make it one!" Tom responded. Tom, of Klug's Fresh Produce, and his wife, Mary, have been in the Market for 15 years. His produce, which he boasts is "all hand-picked, not ma­chine-picked," comes from Berrien County, Michigan, like much of the other fresh produce that comes into the Market. He offers many types of fruits and vegetables, from tomatoes to cherries to blackberries to as­paragus. And, of course, apples. Mary and their son, Kevin, arrange and polish the apples, while Tom hand-selects and fills quart-sized boxes with brussels sprouts. As a customer approaches the stall, Mary rattles off the special deal she has on "Extra Sweet Double Red Deli­cious Apples": $1 a bag. 
"These are great eating apples. You could eat 'em all day long!" said Mary. "Now those ... those are good for apple sauce _and p_ies. Not too good for just plam eatmg, though. Here, try one of these Extra Sweet Double Reds. You'll love it. I just know it. Go ahead ..." 
The customer, an unconvinced sep­
tuagenarian, smiled, but gracefully 
declined, and bought a bag of the 
McIntosh variety instead. However, 
before he could escape, Mary dropped 
two of her Extra Sweet Double Reds 
into the bag, assuring him that he 
would love them. 
The Klug business is also family­
run and -operated, putting good use 
to their three sons, who tend the 
greenhouses, and supervise the har­
vests. -Family participation in the 
business at the Market is common, 
if not prevalent. Kitty-corner from 
the Klugs is another stall which is 
owned by their daughter-in-law's fa­
ther. Keeping it all in the family, he 
sells maple sugar, and maple syrup 
that comes from the Klug orchards. 
In the center of the O-shaped mar­ket there is a diner. Looking more lik~ a Norman Rockwell painting than reality, brown bag-laden c~s­tomers sit on chrome stools, eatmg their breakfasts. The prices are rea­sonable in the little restaurant, and the fare is nostalgic: Sausage, and gravy on a biscuit-$1.65, one egg -.45, and hotcakes are: 1-high­.50, 2-high-.75, three-high-$1.35. Carol one of the waitresses, has only work~d there two years, but she says she still feels closer to the peo­ple that she works with now, and the people she serves now, than to those in her former job. 
"We're all a kind of a family. I've 
seen them all, from the highest to 
the lowest, but I treat them all the 
same. I make them feel right at 
home," she said, sitting on a stool, 
turning lazily from side to side. 
Carol came to the diner when a 
longtime friend assumed the man­
agement, and asked her to waitress 
temporarily. 
"That was two years ago. Friend­. ship brought me here ... and I guess 
it'll take me away, too!" she. said, 
refilling the bottomless cups of cof­
fee (at no extra charge). Customers 
floated in and drifted out of the 
diner, with casual salutations and in­quiries, banal in nature, but n~ne­theless, essential to the easygoing, small-town atmosphere. Good home­cooked food, warm conversation and a sense of contentment make the diner more than a restaurant; it be­comes the family kitchen table. 
The proprietors of the Farmer's Market, Inc., enjoy selling their wares but moreover, they enjoy deal­ing with people. At the stalls, prices are never steadfastly fixed,. and in fact, can become quite negotiable, and competitive. Dickering for the best bargain, whether it is over two 
· cents on one dozen eggs, or $15 on the price of a Christmas tree, is not uncommon. Free samples, "2-for-1," and "17-ounce" pounds are all part of the generosity, the good-hearted­ness of the Market and of the-people who work there, and shop there. 
The Farmer's Market, Inc., is more 
than a business venture. To the sell­
ers, and the customers, it's become a 
human adventure. Goods are ex­
changed and deals are made, but 
conversations are exchanged, and 
friendships• are made, too. There is a 
personal, emotional, human input at 
the Market that the high-technology, 
fiberglass, computerized, prepack­
( cont'd on page 29) 

OCTOBER, 1982 
Fighting an Uphill Battle 
by Jacqueline Burns . 
The financial aid situation at Notre Dame, as at other universities, has worsened recently. Who determines which students receive aid and how is need deter­mined? 
Reduced government spending has affected colleges and universities across the nation, over the past two years. At Notre Dame, alone, one half million dollars in government funding was lost. This along with in­creases in tuition, inflation, and ris­ing unemployment has caused some families to change their plans for postsecondary education. Some peo­ple are seeking help, others are not sure where to look or whom to turn to for assistance. I asked Father Joseph Carey, C.S.C., of the Finan­cial Aid Office, Joseph Russo, Direc­tor of Financial Aid, Ed Blackwell, Director of Minority Affairs, John Goldrick, Director of Admissions and Scholarships, and Don Bishop, Ad­missions Counselor, to comment on how their offices operate and what assistance they offer to students and their families. 
"Of the students accepted by the Admissions Office, 60-70 o/o also ap­ply for aid. Over 90% of those show need and virtually all receive some kind of help. The most used is the Guaranteed Student Loan. In 1981-82 over 50% received loans," said Mr. Russo. In figuring out who is eligible for aid a uniform methodology must be used. All students who apply for aid at Notre Dame must file the Financial Aid Form (FAF) to be considered. "How much a family can afford to contribute is relative to the cost of the institution and their in­come. This assumes: the honesty of the information provided and the willingness of parents. Anytime that federal or Notre Dame funds are in­volved, need is a factor. All Notre Dame scholarships are based on need. Who receives federal money depends on eligibility and we have a commitment to students who are already here. In rationing out lim­ited funds we look at need and if the deadlines were met." 
In talking to Fr. Carey, I was in­formed that, "There are several dif­ferent types of aid available: Fed­eral Aid,· Notre Dame Scholarships, and Outside Aid. Under Federal Aid there are entitlements such as the Pell Grant and Campus-Based Aid which includes Supplemental Educa­tional Grants, National Direct Stu­dent Loans, and Work Study. With work study jobs, usually the govern­ment pays 80 % of the salary for the student, or any combination thereof, and the University pays the balance. Each department is charged 100% of the student salary and at the end of the year the University gets some of the 100 % back through federal monies set aside specifically for that 
purpose. 

Joseph Russo Director of Financial Aid 
"State Aid includes state scholar­ships and Guaranteed Student Loans ( GSL). There· are only a few states that allow students to take their scholarships with them to schools in another state. They are: Connecticut, Vermont, Rhode Island, and Pennsyl­vania. Indiana scholarships cannot leave the state but are applicable to Notre Dame. Also available to Indi­ana scholars is the Freedom of Choice Grant which is a supple­mental grant for students attending private schools in the state of Indi­ana. So with a state scholarship and a Freedom of Choice Grant, a stu­dent can get up to $1,905 from the state of Indiana alone. Guaranteed Student Loans are student loans of which the parent is the comaker. 
Payment begins 6 months after graduation, or leaving the institu­tion; the interest rate is 9% at pres­ent. Up until this year, any student who was registered at a college or university was eligible for a GSL but this year the guidelines were changed. In balancing the budget the present administration has tried to cut out abuses in the program such as high default rates. Some schools have 34-35% default rates compared to around 8% at Notre Dame and most of that 8% are not graduates. Maybe in the future those schools with high default rates will be cut from the program," Fr. Carey said. 
"There are no funds available from the University on the basis of merit only," according to Fr. Carey. "Out­side scholarships are those that the student brings to the University with him. Examples of outside scholar­ships are National Merit Scholar­ships, Elks Club, and Notre Dame Club Scholarships. The three clubs with the largest scholarships are the Chicago Club, the Detroit Club, and the St. Joe Valley Club. The St. Joe Valley Club uses the proceeds from the annual Blue-Gold Football Game for its scholarship fund." 
"I see our purpose as pointing out to people where to look for aid," says Fr. Carey. "This is a tough economic time for students with unemploy­ment, etc. The family plays a big role in financing education. We are 
conscious of the sacrifices made by families in order for students to at­tend Notre Dame and we appreciate their struggles. We. try to provide and point out avem.ies1of assistance for families. We also want the fami­lies to have a clear picture of the costs of education. Some parents ex­pect to pay state school fees for an education at a private institution, with the student making up the dif­ference in cost. Although we expect the student to contribute to the pay­ing of the cost of his education, it is not feasible that a student will make that much in two to three months during the summer, if work is avail­able. We figure in the family's con­tribution in putting together finan­cial aid packets. Another myth that people have is that tuition of all stu­dents pays for athletic scholarships. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Ed Blackwell 
John Goldrick 
Director of Minority Affairs 
Director of Admissions 
This is not the case. Varsity Men's Basketball and Football revenues support all other sports on this cam­pus. Gene Corrigan and Edward (Moose) Krause work with the Pub­lic Relations and Development Office to sponsor athletic fund raisers. The football team has 95 scholarships and the basketball team has as many as they need and none of that money is taken from tuition payments." 
John Goldrick. Director of Admi~­sions and Scho.larships, said, "No athletic scholarship money is taken from the scholarship fund. More years than not, they [the athletes] earn more money than they have spent which helps to keep tuition costs down. All nonvarsity athletics, including interhall sports, are sup­ported by our basketball and football teams. Not to my knowledge has that occurred at any other institution. A good question to ask is what kind of contribution does the student make to the University and what does that student get [in return] as a student and not just an athlete. Our primary purpose is education. We have a good relationship with the athletic department. Every candidate is eval­uated by our office and NO SPECIAL DEAL is made. The athlete must present the same kind of credentials as everyone else." "We look for the best academic student," Don Bishop added. "We are highly selective. We do look at 
OCTOBER, 1982 
SAT scores but the SAT is not the be-all and end-all at Notre Dame. I do not know of any school that uses the SAT as its basis for selection. It is not to replace or substitute for four years of high school work-it just rounds out the picture. It is the single uniform document on all ap­plications. It is important, it can change and we do not underestimate its importance." 
"If I had to choose one piece as the most important it would be the high school transcript," said Mr. Goldrick. "We look at the curriculum that a student has taken, their achievements, SATs, leadership, es­says, everything. Then we make the selection. Of those students selected, the top 200-250 are designated as scholars. Notre Dame Scholars are the only students who receive Notre Dame scholarship money. The amount of the awards is based on need but we do not consider need when choos­ing scholars. Only Mr. Russo in the Financial Aid Office has that infor­mation, which is confidential. The number of scholars is based on the money available. There is enough talent to select 500-1000 scholars but our funds are limited. We have more valedictorians and salutatorians than we do scholars so we have to choose the best of them. None receive aid based on merit. If there is no need, then the student is awarded a certifi­cate and has the recognition that he 
or she is a scholar." 
The Office of Minority Affairs is also a member of the University Committee of Financial Aid and Scholarships. "We are trying to cre­ate a concern as to the need for fi­nancial aid as it relates to minority students," said Mr. Blackwell, Direc­tor of Minority Affairs. "We also try to present an accurate picture of how financial aid may affect admissions." Blackwell notes that the office tries to work with parents, students, and the Financial Aid Office, and seeks to locate outside sources of aid. "We stress filing the FAF form and meet­ing the deadlines. Sometimes, how­ever, families seek our help as a last resort in a crisis situation." From there, the Office of Minority Affairs researches different areas and some­times finds a factor, overlooked by the family, which makes the student eligible for aid. "However, it is get­ting more difficult," he adds. 
Although funds have gotten tighter at the University of Notre Dame, the administration is putting forth a big effort to help students find funds for their education. They are optimistic about the future. As Joe Russo says, "I certainly hope that the problems we ·face in terms of dollars will be eased in the future with gifts from friends and donors." 
Jacqueline Burns is a senior Ameri­can Studies nw,jor from South Bend, IN. 


The Patterns of 
Daily Life 
My visual imagery is expressive of the many moods and attitudes that are experienced in a social and personal environment over a twenty-four-hour period. In my work, a specific visual element is in obvious opposition to the established direction and order of the piece. This emphasizes the fascinating strands of simplicity and complication that run through the patterns of daily life. D 
C. Callahan 
CROWDED THOUGHTS; felt and acrylic; 24 in. by 32 in.; 1982 
SCHOLASTIC 


MIND GAMES; acrylic and wcol,· 27 in. by 24-in.· 1982 
f),.,(11~~­
.lt:i :,< , 
~J )1!!{:~
:;·ti:\(l ~ \ . .'· .. "1:·: -·-Ni'/ i,/ 
·~ Iif~l\~.i 
\1·.. ,,: 
.,-·. --\;:,· ..., . -Hf•-~--'l'J\ "'f_·_.,-_-. )_:___>;: t_~--~-~,~~-: -.1i_',_>.-'.i ~t> _(j_i1.-.J 
I
£1:f;;_~ :.~ .; l'." -_!t:,:~ \~{~ r: , . t,J.
\t.J':' \:-,-,•·t--:;:;,,,.:(;ilf,>Jl,::t->,~~ -,',~/.-'I'-:~ r1}f~~-.i,~fy ,·-1, ..11 ·/~~: ~ ))7\\_'t-·,:-::--'..\'----•.;}~\ 
; 'J ·/ _,.. ' 't? . 
:~ ' 
LET'.S STROLL; linen and wire;
36 in. by 24 in.; 1982 

17
OCTOBER, 1982 


. .. .· _· :-..•_.. -_:._:.. '-,_~·-:-;,;~­
_

Iet:l()fl 
Chantpleure 
by Rick Keppel 
Now that I believe in magic, I know that the apparition of Mr. Man in Amsterdam was no mere coincidence. 
I hadn't seen him in ten years, but he didn't appear to have aged; he was as grey and old as he ever was when he used to sit under the maple tree outside the Church of the Sorrowful Mysteries every Sunday in 
summer. We were Sunday-schoolers then, with short pants and black socks and with pretty pink dresses. We used to come out of class every Sunday filled with the constant love of our wondrous savior Jesus who suffered the little children (like us) to come to him. And it was this same Jesus who also, as the gigantic Sr. Gabriel was used to warn, would be so disappointed and hurt if we turned away that He would cast us from His sight to a place where we would suffer forever and never again see our mothers and fathers who had kept trying to tell us what was good but we didn't listen. And at the end of each class, a crooked finger would emerge from the immense folds of black which Sr. Gabriel always wore (no matter how hot it was), and it would point at each one of us, one by one, reminding us that no matter what we do or think, He always knows, sees everything, and will reward and punish as He sees just. Amen. 
After each class, then, most everyone would run home as fast as they could because their parents had told them to come right home, and the Eyes were right behind. But I remember that for me and my neighbor­hood friends, (somehow) nothing could disturb the beauty of our young summers-the height of our 
freedom when we learned the most and explored the vast world around us, which at this time, in our tenth year of existence, was Wichita, Kansas. 
Although we always kept our good clothes on after Sunday school, we immediately changed back into our nicknames. And Bo Cheese, Ween, Midge, Kissy and I never had to go very far to begin our adventures on Sunday afternoons. 
He was always there, sitting under the maple tree by the church graveyard, playing curly notes on his tin whistle. His hair was kind of scraggly, and his beard was peppered with about five different shades of grey. He always wore a white T-shirt and blue overalls, but never once did he sweat a drop in any of those humid ninety­five-degree Sundays. He never called us over to sit by him, but his bright green eyes attracted us like magnets. Bo Cheese and Kissy led us right up to him every time, but since I had been taught that all strangers were bad men, I lagged behind at first. 
As we sat in a semicircle around him (I remained slightly outside), he continued to play his whistle, wagging his head a bit from side to side. Yellow butter­flies always fluttered around him while he played, and as he finished with a flurry of notes, they would scatter in different directions-except one which would perch on his shoulder and rest quietly. 
"Hee, hee, hee," he'd laugh, and then he'd tell us the 
mysteries of the world. We called him Mr.. Man. 
18 
.--. 
~.·...-.;,:•.-c•.••.JJll\,-,~(•: -~-'.r1¥t!··_~~---··•} ._,,1.l,n,f'J,··.·w·· i
~S:~:~_:~~~rr\r· ~-•i~1· \1\\1. ..} ~ ..-...-~. ~;,. ~f~-;/l./; .:~~:v-~: 
w-,,"-'..-~-•\t I ,... j" {,-. ,, ""' ')' . 1..1,. .. .,•. ,, 
'{J\ -:· 
~~--·~ \ \ ·~-­

'
·,,,i, 

\\;\\··'.,
\;\ 
He told us about the stars and how our sun is a star, and yet it is just one of billions and billions in our galaxy, the Milky Way. And he said that even with the most powerful telescopes we can only see a billion of these galaxies and that even this number is only a small fraction of the total number, and wouldn't it be wonderful, we thought, to fly someday to the farthest star? 
He told us about the moon, and that even though it's so close compared to the stars and even th_gugh people like us have walked on it, we still don't kndw how it got in our sky, circling around the earth. All we really know is how beautiful it is on a Clear night and how we feel so strangely attached to it. And he told us how eclipses happen and how one time long ago there was a_n eclipse during a battle and that immediately when it became dark, both sides laid down their weapons in fright and made peace. 
He also told us the story of a boy (about our age) whom one man said he found living with the gazelles in the Sahara Desert. The boy traveled on all fours, grazed on grass, and was very much accepted by his herd. He learned the grace and speed of the gazelles, running free and·easy in leaps and bounds. The man saw the hoy was happy, so he left him to live with the gazelles 
forever. Mr. Man told us stories like this every Sunday. But then summer ended, and there was no more Sunday 
SCHOLASTIC 
Culture, Update, 
school for us. We never saw him again, and he faded away in our memories. All of us have since moved from Wichita, and none of us has thought about any of the others for years. We've been scattered all over the earth. 
Somehow, once, I was scattered to Amsterdam. Amsterdam is the carnival city of the whole world. The night hides an invisible organ grinder who pumps out his music up and down the canals. Every shadow that passes whispers "hashish," and drunken sailors laugh and glare at the women in the red windows who stare back like paintings. 
But when the organ gradually faded away into the haze on the canals, the curly notes of the tin whistle began to roll around my head. 
Around the corner, there was a small gathering of people in their early twenties. The street was lit by a nearby neon sign which flashed "Free Sex" on and off, illuminating the graffiti on the wall at precise three­second intervals. It was the scrawl of two different persons: one said, "Jesus is the answer," the other. "What's the qµestion ?" 
Mr. Man stood in front of the wall, surrounded by his 
small, somewhat mesmerized audience. He had a little 
monkey which danced around him as he played his tin 
whistle, and when he stopped, it jumped on his shoulder 
and perched there. I stood outside the small circle as he 
told them stories. 
He told them that during the 1936 Olympics in 
Germany, Adolf Hitler had signs put up over the 
toilets that read "Dogs and Jews not allowed," and that 
the Roman emperor Caligula used to tell each of his 
mistresses as he kissed them, "Off comes this head 
whenever I give the word." 
He told them that the man who wrote the lyrics to the song "Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag and Smile, Smile, Smile" committed suicide and that in the earliest versions of "Sleeping Beauty," the handsome prince lusts after the beauty of the sleeping woma~1. rapes her, and then leaves. .· 
He also told them about a wild boy captured from a herd of gazelles in Syria. His captors m1streated him severely, and since he could outrun all other humans, he escaped frequently. After his fifth recapture, his captors decided to prevent any further escapes by slicing his Achilles tendons, crippling the boy forever. He died soon after. 
The small group remained silent throughout and were still listening quietly as I began to walk away. I headed back toward the canal, and although a smoky mist lay thick on the surface of the water, the night sky above was clear and starry, and the moon was a well­defined crescent. 
I still heard his voice, though. It followed me through the mist and down the canal, and I knew the monkey's eyes were on my back. He was teUing us that there is a word that has died out of our common language but which is the first and last word a man speaks on this earth, which is at the very heart of every word· he speaks in between. It is the reason for the moon, thunderstorms, love, and everything else in his life he can never really understand, just feel:. 
"Chantpleure," he said, "to sing and weep at the same time." 
I disappeared from view, and so did Mr. Man, transporting his magical enntourage to the farthest star. D 
Rick Keppel is a senior English ma­jor from Ridgefield, CT. This is his first contribution _to Scholastic. 
MUSIC 
... at Notre Dame 
Oct. 17 -Dmitry Paperno, pianist -4:00 
p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium ­
(GA, $2.00; Students, free admis­sion) 
... at Saint Mary's 
*Oct. 17-Michiana New Music Ensemble ­Roger Briggs, coordinator, 8:00 
p.m. -Little Theatre 
ART 
. at the Snite Museum of Art 
Until Oct. 10 -Annual Faculty Exhibition ­O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
Until Oct. 10 -Sculptor's Drawings -Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery 
Od. 17-Dec. 26-The Golden Age af Dutch Ari: The Dreesmann Collec­tion -Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery 
Oct. 24-Dec. 19-Traditional African Ari in the Britt Family Collection -O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
Oct. 31-Dec. 12-William Kremer: One Mon Exhibition -O'Shaughnes­sy Galleries 
(gallery hours: T-F, 10-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 p.m.; 
closed M) 
... at Saint Mary's 
Until Oct. 15 -Indiana Women's Caucus for Art.-Moreau Gallery 
Until Oct. 15 -Jim Paradis, recent work -Hammes and Little Theatre Galleries (gallery hours: M-F, 9:30-12 p.m.; 1-3 p.m.; Sun., 1-3 p.m.; closed Sat.) 
Lectures at the Snite 
Oct. 1 2 -"Antiquity and the Medieval Sculptor" -Susan Madigan, As­sistant Professor af Art History, N.D.-12:10 p.m.-Annenberg Auditorium 
THEATRE 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Theatre 
•oct. 8, 9, 14, 15, 16-The Taming of the Shrew by William Shakespeare -di­rected by Julie Jen­sen -O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC ­
8:00 p.m. 
• For Ticket Information and reservations, call (219) 284-4626 
(Anyone interested in advertising cultural events in the Scholastic please send a listing of those events. and all pertinent information to Art Editor, Scholastic, Lafortune Student Center.) 
OCTOBER, 1982 
Poetry 


by John Lyon 
Soon thieving time will steal this week away And try to tell us that we only keep A common dream, come on us as we lay Each softly wrapped in our own separate sleep, That we but fashioned fables in the night To combat insubstantial terrors' fright. 
(Poor, jealous time, that to such ruse must run To separate what is, from what seems, done!) 
Though time should trick us so, it can't be said We failed, amid night's anxious hours to raise Our hearts as one, free offering, and led Our minds, our bodies, and our souls in praise Of Him Whose Spirit shaped us, and who seems To give us, beyond hope, these wondrous dreams. 
(Poor, jealous time, that to such ruse must run To separate what is, from what seems, done!) 
We offer praise for what we've done indeed, And sure thanksgiving bring for gentleness, Concern, forbearance, and for love that needs No claim to ownership to yet possess; For simple, silent trust, that complement Of all we've said and done, and all we've meant. 
And so, at workweek's end, in common prayer We wrap together all that we have been And bring it to this sacrifice we share Where wine and water God and man convene, Where broken bread makes whole what still appears To be diffuse in place, distinct in years. 
Our song of praise we sing Our offering we bring And leave time envying The permanence of things. 
It sings in the haunted caverns of the mind Of what we have been, but forgot; Of what we shall be, but know not. 
It brings to the hollow places in our lives Laving waves of seried counterpoint. Filling, fulling all; hallowing hollows, 
It springs from the well of all being, Wrapping round us fluid time In healing, whole embrace. 
It rings! rings! rings! rings! rings! Off the ceiling of the soul, Reconciling, overarching whole, 
Rounding all the self in warm Enwombing waves, lulling by its cradled Liquid laving; still, by its penetration making Us ache for dreams while waking And, dreaming, will awakening's aching. 
To persons, places, times we've shared it binds, And others' being in its music winds Its woven, wild enchantment. Soon one finds Its coming theirs. Sweet vibrant swelling joy! Its leaving sorrow sounds, and can destroy. 
Promise, its return. In its return all promise. 
by John Lyon 

When loosed from eyes of one we love, is light To blind, dehiscent darkling death so lost "· That nowhere then its lovely lambent sight Has home, that sight which swept our self and crossed Its blue-gray gentle soft yet searing seeing Through us, which, lamped in crystal, shrined in 
shimmer All sharp, ashine with limpid lasent being Makes firelight palelight, sunlight, starlight dimmer? Or lies then, there, beyond dull death's dumb deep And downward-drawing earthward ever all Eternal, radiant, dazzling Being? Weep Then no tears, nor grieve, nor sorrow's solace call: Our partial, mortal light from Light flares whole, dear, And eyes earth-sealed shall shine to shrive the soul, 
dear. 
by John Lyon 
20 
SCHOLASTIC 



We dwell in mechanical twilight, 
And all that should have been blood is only the rust 
Of towering concrete highways 
Abandoned and facing the oncoming night. 
The sheet-metal surface of strife 
Is scratched into furrows which harbor our bones and our dust And bury forever the days When youth led the dance on a charming steel knife. Now alley-children run bold And vengeful and aimless and cruel; just a blood­thickened crust Running lost in the maze, And preying the only escape from the cold. 
by Mary Powel Jabaley 
Old man, heavy man Rubbing the thick braille, Squeezing blindness from a book, Sifting rusted colors like sand Through his iron fingers. Rising, he stumbles like a drunkard In the twisted light And falls flat through darkness. A soft voice rolls like a cotton ball Over smooth sightlessness and dissolves. He too will soon dissolve And spread like water, silently, Through a small glass world. He is delicate in the breaking. 
by Brad Schmidt 

OCTOBER, 1982 

Race With the Exponential 
Stepan Chemistry Hall 
SCHOLASTIC 
by Dan McGrath, News Editor 
Stepan Chemistry Hall is Notre Dame's latest bid in the high stakes of the technology race. 
The technology explosion is here 
to stay. Yet for most people, tech­
nological development is just a con­
versation topic, or is only important 
if it means a new video game. For 
American universities and industry, 
however, technological development 
is a deadly serious topic. It's a race 
with the exponential. 
Stepan Chemistry Hall, a 9.3 mil­lion dollar chemical research facility is Notre Dame's latest expression of· its commitment to excellence in tech­nical education, and, even more im­portantly, it expresses a serious com­mitment of private industry to pro­moting university research. Major funding and its name came from Stepan Chemical Corporation of Northfield, IL. This facility provides for Notre Dame's College of Science the most advanced environment re­quired to undertake serious basic research in Chemistry. 
Chemical research at Notre Dame has a long tradition. In and around 1910, Father Julius Nieuwland did his workon the polymerization reac­tions of acetylene and this work led to the discovery and production of neoprene, the first synthetic rubber. Another development in science was nuclear physics around the time of the Chicago Manhattan Project dur­ing World War IL The Radiation Laboratory was developed at Notre Dame by Milton Burton who came to Notre Dame from Chicago to use the Van de Graaff accelerator. Under Burton's leadership, the ,radiation lab grew into what is now a world­renowned facility in Radiation Chem­
istry. People like these paved the. way for chemical research at Notre Dame. 
Research now tends to be focused towards basic research in all disci­plines. Most of the faculty members in Chemistry are currently involved in the basic elements of research that will provide advancement in chemistry and be the mainstream for many years to come. Basic research provides the basic concepts and ideas that promote the applied develop­ment which has put us where we are today. Yet, the basic research at Notre Dame does in a sense have a focus toward a particular applied field. Dean Francis Castellino is carrying out work that has a very important focus toward health. His work involves the investigation of the structures and interactions of proteins and lipids with metal ions which is very relevant to under­standing the formation and dissolv­ing of blood clots. Professor Kerry Thomas' work involves searching for new ways of converting solar energy into useful energy. These projects, though basic research, have impor­tant implications for health and 
energy. 
~ 
Will improvements in the lab pro­duce improvements in the classroom, especially for undergraduates? Notre Dame's focus, which has always dis­tinguished it from other universities, is on teaching. Early teacher-scien­tists such as Father Nieuwland and Father Zahm gave Notre Dame a tradition of emphasis on people. Dean Robert Gordon, Vice President for Advanced Studies, spoke of Notre Dame's distinction in a recent inter­view. "I think the teacher-scientist has been a hallmark for Notre Dame, and it makes us different from other universities in that we do em­phasize the teaching aspect of the University much more than many other major research institutions in the country. And, I suspect that with or without funding, we will continue to put our emphasis on people, be­cause people in science and engineer­ing are our first and best product." 
Dr. Francis Castellino, Dean of the College of Science, sees the posi­tive effect of research on education as fundamental. "In the laboratory, one is developing new knowledge within the general fields of the teach­ers so that it .can be taught in the classroom. Another aspect of the 

--_._ ,_::,·. \ l--· -r .(-:+-:~~TJr_ 
,:--r ! -1· i -i "'-•!--· 
Stepan Chemistry Hall, a 9.3 million dollar chemical research facility is Notre Dane's latest expression of its cornmitment to excellence in technical education but more imi:::ortantly, it expresses a serious commitment of private industry to promoting W1iversity research. 
Photos by Sandy Eital 
relationship of teaching to research is a very subtle but very important one, and that revolves around im­plementing the research approach to students. Students are taught by a faculty who are leaders in their field, who can analyze problems, and who can solve problems, and I be­lieve that this is a very good manner of teaching our students." 
In light of research's impact on the quality of technical education, one crucial point is that of adequate research facilities. For Notre Dame, 62-year-old Chemistry Hall was not capable of providing the needed fa­cilities for serious chemical research. The adequacy of a research environ­ment is much more than simple aesthetics, and it is a problem facing many American universities. This February, at a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Science, Research, and Technology, Dr. Wesley W. Posvar, Chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh, spoke of the state of the research institutions at Ameri­ca's universities: 
"A major deficiency in another capital element essential to research is the problem of instrumentation and facilities. The decaying instru­mentation system in our American laboratories is on the verge of na­tional disgrace; foreign visitors from advanced-technology countries are surprised at the antiquated equip-
OCTOBER, -1982 
-
ment they see here. The differences between their instrumentation and ours explains much of the higher productivity these countries have been showing. Seeking solutions, ba­sic scientists in American universi­ties and corporations are beginning to work together in common labora­tories with common equipment. This is a start, but the government can help in improving instrumentation through tax incentives and fostering limited industrial-education partner­ships that could take advantage of 
tax depreciation provisions.'' 
"I do not believe that we can becorre an outstanding W1iversity without active and modem research." 
-Dean F. Castellino 
Cooperation among government, industry and academia is a slow but nonetheless crucial process, and it ­may be the decisive factor in whether the American economy sinks or swims. Organizations that can foster cooperative efforts among the gov­ernment, industry, and the universi­ties are lacking. As an example, only this year a private engineering con­sulting company founded, in coop­
eration with Northwestern Univer­
sity, America's first gear research 
institute. Japan has ten. Germany 
has four. All of these are coopera­
tives among the respective countries' 
government, industry and universi­
ties. This is serious business in light 
of the fact that almost all advance­
ments are not shared and are given 
only to their own industries. 
Dean Castellino sees the future of 
Chemistry at Notre Dame as bright, 
but it has a catch: 
"Regarding the future of research 
in the College of Science, I think it's 
very important that we remain 
abreast of development in our field. 
We have a very balanced faculty in 
the College of Science, and we cer­
tainly cover the span of interesting 
research. I believe that the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame has a sincere 
interest in propagating research. It 
can most effectively do this by con­
tinuing to support the research ef­
fort. I do not believe that we can 
become an outstanding university 
without active and modern research." Perhaps Notre Dame will continue to be a leader in chemical research. At present, we are on the forefront -of developments in chemistry, but to 
stay ahead means you have to run 
faster than everyone else. Stepan 
Chemistry Hall is definitely a sign 

that at least for Notre Dame, the 
race is on. D 
~---­
A Temperate Feminist: 
Sonia Gernes 

On the day before Easter, South Bend got more snow. As Sonia Gernes drove to the South Bend Farmer's Market she marvelled, "This is the first time I've seen snow at Easter since I left Minnesota!" Born and raised on a dairy farm in southeastern Minnesota, Miss Gernes is now an associate professor of English at the University of Notre Dame. But she has not forgotten the farm, and traces of that past ap­peared as she wandered through the Market. A small, neat woman with good posture, she stands about five feet tall. She has short light brown hair with a sweep of bangs across a fairly high forehead, and large eyes. Her straight mouth is not given to broad smiles, but she looks pleasant and open-minded, and has an elfin -look about her when amused. The hands that hold her shopping bag are small and well-formed, and she walked easily and with assur­ance through the friendly crowd at the Market. 
Although she wanted to scout out all of the stalls before buying any­thing, she did stop at her favorite bread place for two loaves of half­wheat/half-white bread. She ex­plained, "I love homemade bread, and I never have time to make it. It's funny-we always had it when I was growing up, and I used to envy the kids with store-bought bread." She wandered among the stalls with her homemade bread, buying celery, a huge bulb of garlic, butter, lettuce, and fresh eggs. On the way out, she paused at the next­to-the-last vegetable stand, murmur­
24 
a horniness in old furniture that's missing in more modern things. It's easy to come home to: that's im­portant for someone who lives alone." 
Her house was built in the early 1900's, and Miss Gemes bought it almost three years ago. She rents the upstairs to a colleague from Notre Dame, keeping the first floor for herself. Broad, open doorways and large windows make her five rooms seem larger than they really are, and give her just the right amount of space. She did most of the remodeling herself, cutting larger doorways, knocking out walls, restoring the original woodwork, and replacing the ceiling and part of the floor. Her friend Kathy Tillman, 
Sonia Gemes 
Asst. Prof. of English 
ing, "I would "love to have some of 
those leeks, but I'll bet they're out­
rageously expensive.". When she 
asked the price, the vendor 
countered, "Make me an offer." She 
hesitated, and he continued, "I'll be 
honest with you; we've had them 
since Tuesday. They were going for 
$1.65 then. I'll give 'em to you for $1.25." "I really don't need all three. How much for just one?" "Oh ... 35¢." As she dug for some change, he smiled ruefully. "You drive a hard bargain, lady." 
Sonia Gemes is good at making bargains. She has . furnished her house with antiques she bought at auctions, restored, and refinished. 
Her showpiece is the "Hoosier cup­board" in_ ~er kitchen, a piece of furniture which combines cabinets, drawers, counter space, . a cutting board, and a ·tin bread drawer. "It was covered with layers of horrible white paint, which I had to scrape off to get to the oak underneath. And no one knew about this stained glass on the doors-that was a nice little bonus;'' By her front door hangs a· large mirror· in a simple 
by Mary Powel Jabaley 
black walnut frame. She found it under a coat of gilt plaster in a New England antique barn three sum­mers ago. A small chest and a cane­backed rocker came from her grand­mother; most of the rest came from Michiana auctions and antique shops. "I've always been interested in houses and furnishings, and there's 
who also teaches at Notre Dame, says, "She's really amazing, sort of a Jill-of-all-trades. She sews a lot, even hard things . like blazers, and she's a great cook. She fixed my washing machine too-I thought I was going to have to get a new one, , but she took it apart, and found out that the pipes were all clogged with lime. So she cleaned them out and put it all back together, and it's fine. She also has a real head for all that financial stuff: she's my chief ad­visor when it comes to homeowning. Her housewarming gift to me was·a can of putty to fix the holes in my walls!" Miss Gernes's explanation for this variety of talents is.simple: "My
v.·
mother raised me to beJ a farmer's wife." Although there are a few differences between a farmer's wife in Minnesota and a single female professor in South Bend, the prep­
. aration for the tasks of the one has served the other well. Miss . Gemes has been ·able to combine the "man's world'' and the ·"woman's world" in the creation of her own home. 
But the wide range of honie­owner's responsibilities is not the only challenge of living alone. As Miss Tillman explains, "It's hard to be a single woman in th~s commu-. 
SCHOLASTIC 
nity. Most of the events in South 
Bend are geared toward families, 
and most of the faculty members at 
Notre Dame are married. When 
they relax, it's with their families. 
This draws the single women closer 
together-we need each other's sup­
port." The women often push each 
other into new undertakings, as 
when Miss Gernes took fencing les­
sons from a colleague with fellow 
English professor Carson Daly. Miss 
Daly confesses, "I suppose it was my 
idea, really, and she was good 
enough to go along. She always 
says she's not athletic, though I don't 
really think that's true. I get a real 
kick out of remembering her fencing. 
She hated to poke people at first­
she was afraid of hurting someone-­
but after she got the hang of it she'd 
come right after you. She's so 
diminutive--she was great behind 
that big mask!"' 
Professor Gernes was the first 
woman in Notre Dame's English 
Department to receive tenure, and 
the first to offer any sort of course 
dealing exclusively with women 
writers, though others are following 
her example. "I'm not a real libber; 
I don't hate men or anything. I'm 
just a temperate feminist-I believe 
in giving women their due." Tom 
Hartzell, a student in her North 
American Women Writers class, sup­
ports this claim. "I took this course 
to read some women writers, and 
to learn about the whole female per­
spective. The gender difference isn't 
a big thing, but it's certainly there, 
and she presents it very well. The 
really good thing is that she gives 
you both sides-she's not an ardent 
feminist, and she doesn't push any­
thing on you." 
Sonia Gernes is, however, partic­ularly concerned about the demands a family makes on a creative woman, and she brought the matter before her class. He eyes were wide and expressive through her tortoise-shell glasses, and she illustrated her points with large gestures of her hands and arms. Her voice deepened at the ends of her sentences as she ex­plained that, until very recently, almost all female writers were either unmarried or· childless. Their crea­tive problems arose from lack of time, energy, and opportunity. It is only in the last decade or so that society has begun to help women find ways to combine art and family. 
Professor Gernes's other classes, Poetry Writing and Fiction Writing, make an effort to deal with the col­lege student's more typical problem: 
OCTOBER, 1982 
lack of motivation. Poetry student 
Kathy Campanella affirmed, "It was 
an active class; we were always hav­
ing to turn in poems. But we also 
did a lot of exercises to help us learn 
how to get started on them." Of 
course, it is always hard to judge 
creative ability. Anne Lawliss con­
fessed, "If anything, she wasn't hard 
enough on us. I could often get by 
with something I'd just written the 
night before.'' And Miss Campanella 
noted, "I did get the feeling that she 
was teaching poetry as she thought 
it should be written.'' 
Her own ideas were the logical 
standard, because Miss Gernes is 
herself a poet. She has published 
widely in poetry journals and maga­
zines, and in 1981 published two col­
lections, The Mutes of Sleepy Eyes 
and Brief Lives. Carson Daly calls 
last year her "annus mirabilis'' 
(year of miracles). "She had Sleepy 
Eye published by a little press in 
Seattle, and Brief Lives by the Notre 
Dame Press, and her novel, The Way 
to St. Ives, was accepted by Scrib­
ner's. Three books in one year is 
just amazing!" 
Although Miss Daly calls her "emotionally conservative," not rushing into relationships or spend­ing time on people she does not care about, her poetry is filled with a pas­sionate life. Miss Gernes explains, "There is a strong sense of mortality in these poems, but it is constantly played against a strong sense of sur­vival, a tenacious clinging to the earth." Miss Tillman finds her poe­try universal, despite its strong ties to the experiences of a Midwestern Catholic woman. "I love it. It ex­presses the kinds of feelings that as a woman I can relate to, but it's also universal. She focuses on detail, beautiful images beautifully knit together. In that sense, it's sophis­ticated, but it's also accessible. I never feel stupid when I read her work.'' Miss Gernes aims consciously for such a reaction. "I have an enor­mous, inbred urge to tell stories. And, of course, I want them to be heard. Most of these poems tell stories, and I tried to make them stories that are accessible to a wide range of intelligent readers, without compromising the quality of the poetry. itself." 
The urge to tell stories has found another outlet in her forthcoming novel, The Way to St. Ives. The protagonist is forty-year-old Rosie Deane, a cafeteria worker in a small Minnesota town, who has never left home. When the novel begins, her 
brother has just died and she is com­
pletely alone. As she is faced with 
more and more decisions, including 
the prospect of falling in love for 
the first time, she begins to realize 
that her whole life has been dictated 
by others. Her situation is compli­
cated by the upheaval in the Catholic 
Church caused by the Second Vati­
can Council. Miss Gernes explains, 
"I personally welcomed most of 
tl:ese changes, but I wanted to por­
tray the lost feeling that many of 
the older people got when they no 
longer had anything firm under their 
feet." Rosie's struggle to find herself 
in a radically changing world creates 
the drama of the novel. It is left 
open-ended-they may not all live 
happily ever after-but Miss Gernes 
sees it as a positive ending. "Rosie 
had avoided choices all her life; she 
never wanted to have to face any­
thing. She finally learned that she 
did have choices, and she accepted 
that." 
Sonia Gernes's own choice, to write a novel, required a good bit of courage. "But the idea of a char­acter like Rosie had been with me for a long time. Ideas are always flitting through my head, but this one kept coming back." She had the first fifty pages written when Mary Gordon's novel Final Payments came out. Miss Gernes heard the story line, and her first thought was, "She's stolen my novel!" Her own manuscript sat in a drawer for a year and a half before she got up the nerve to read Final Payments. When she did, she decided· that, al­though there were definite similar­ities, the subject was still hers. But once her novel was written, she still had to find a publisher. "It's much harder without an agent," she says. "Harder" means almost impossible. However, The Way to St. Ives was mentioned in a New York Times article called "Getting Out of the Slush Pile." "Slush pile" is the pub-· lishers' name for the thousands of unsolicited manuscripts they receive, and catching a publisher's eye from that position is a major accomplish­ment. But Miss Gernes should have an easier time with her next novel, which she plans to begin this sum­mer. "Rosie is a person I might have been if I had had that mother, if I had lived in that town, if I had been 
less intelligent, if I had never left home--there are a thousand 'ifs.' Now I want to write a novel about a nun, which will be more auto­biographical/' 
(cont'd on page 32) 
Books 
Growing Up Late 
The Way to St. Ives, by Sonia Gernes, Scribner's, 266 pages. 
Most of us view the awkward adolescent with indulgent exaspera­tion. There is something touching about the shyness, the foolish fears, the exaggerated anxieties of a seven­teen-year-old trying to become an adult. But a woman of forty going through adolescent agonies could all too easily be a matter of ridicule. In The Way to St. Ives, Sonia Gernes manages to capture our sympathy, our affection, and finally our admira­tion for a woman who has to grow up when she is far beyond the age for doing it naturally. 
Rosie Deane, living in a small Minnesota town called St. Ives, has been kept a child by her mother, who wanted a lifetime companion. Rosie's mother magnified a couple of faint­ing spells into the legend that her daughter had "fits," but she never had Rosie examined by a doctor. Rosie accepted this version of her life and lived passively under her mother's domination, while the fic­tion of her disability kept her from marrying or becoming a nun. When her mother finally died of a stroke, Rosie lived on in the square brick house with her bachelor brother, Jack, who ran the family grain ele­vator. Rosie worked in the cafeteria of the parochial school, observed her Catholic practices faithfully, and hardly questioned the narrow limits or her existence. 
The present action of the novel be­gins when Rosie Deane's brother dies unexpectedly of a heart attack, and Rosie is left "widowed" at forty-on~, with no longer a part to play in any­one's life, and no life of her own. "Poor thing," she overhears people saying at Jack's funeral. "She never did do much of anything." Rosie for the first time feels some flickers of perception and rebellion· at the way her mother has cheated her. She be­gins timorously to reach out for 
Reviewed by Prof. Elizabeth Christman 
some sort of independence. Her first sortie, which seems so daring to her, is no more than a trip to Sioux Falls, where she buys a 'pantsuit and goes to a movie. 
With many hesitations, frights, and challenges of conscience, Rosie undertakes other experiences and be­comes involved with people: a young priest in the parish who is having a struggle with alcohol, a nun in the school who is having a vocation crisis, a married couple burdened with children coming too fast, and a milkman who delivers to the school cafeteria. 
The milkman, Ray Bowen, be­comes a suitor. He is a man of her own age, kind and sensitive, and Rosie takes the clumsy first steps toward "dating" and being in love that in most lives belong to youth. There are the troubling doubts about self, and the fearful mystery of sex, which in Rosie's case is made more fearful because of her rigid Catholic upbringing..Rosie had grown up in the era when "impure thoughts" con­stituted a large item in the "Adults' Examination of Conscience" at the back of the prayer book. Impure ac­tions, for a woman, were almost un­thinkable. Rosie's growth takes place (in 1967) against the background of the changing Church, and this con­tributes additional tension to her at­tempts to find her adult self. An ob­scene telephone caller, who seems to watch her and to know her move­ments, aggravates Rosie's anxiety. 
It is no small feat of storytelling that Sonia Gernes can engage her readers so thoroughly in what hap­pens to Rosie Deane. This character, so unformed for her age, so .simple, so literal, so lacking in humor or cynicism or artifice, is an unlikely heroine for readers in the 80s. Yet her bingo date with her middle-aged suitor, the Thanksgiving party that she engineers, the church Oktober­fest, the shivaree -these old-fash­ioned events of Rosie's life are sur­prisingly absorbing. Rosie's inno­cence is credible because her setting and background are so skillfully ren­dered. Rosie's mother, Maura Deane, though seen only in flashback and through the filter of Rosie's naivete, is a masterly piece of characteriza­tion. She is almost monstrous in her selfish manipulation of her daugh­ter's life, but she is comic and human too. Rosie's brother Jack, also seen only in Rosie's memory, is another well-drawn character. The sardonic and closemouthed bachelor, prob­ably also a victim of the domineer­
ing mother, surprises Rosie-and the reader-with an unexpected but be­lievable streak of softness. Other characterizations, too, are sure and compelling: Father Griffin, the young priest, Sister Carol Ann, Dora Hein­kamp and the whole cast of rural St. Ives. 
Only in drawing Ray Bowen does Sonia Gernes falter a little, to my mind. The reader learns to know him as Rosie does, a good man, a plain man, a lonely man who longs for marriage but who is patient in his wooing of an inexperienced woman. The convolutions of the plot hinge on a misunderstanding between him and Rosie, one of those misunderstand­ings, familiar and vexing to fiction readers, which could easily be avoided if characters simply told each other the facts. This kind of withholding doesn't seem entirely consistent in a man as direct and upright as Ray. The misunderstand­ing seems to serve the in'forests of plot rather than to grow out of character.. 
But this is a minor objection, which comes to mind only in retro­spect. The novel is so readable, and the suspense so absorbing, that such quibbles don't interfere with the en­joyment of the book. 
The Way to St. Ives is a touching story of Rosie Deane's maturing, struggling with the handicaps of her upbringing and the new hazards of her present. The ending is affirma­tive and satisfying. D 
26 
SCHOLASTIC 
~------­
. . . . ' . ' 
Perspective 
Jim Shilts, I Miss You. Thank You For Your Life. 
by Brother Joe McTaggart, C.S.C. 
''In truth, we who survive are rarely ready to deal with death. '' 
Editors Note: The following is a reflection on death written Sunday, September 12, in light of recent deaths in the ND community. 
Love when you can Cry when you have to Be who you must, that's a part of 
the plan Await your arrival with simple 
survival And one day we'll all understand Orie day we'll all understand; 
-Dan F'ogelberg 
I wrote the substance of this arti­cle while I was still in some shock from the announcement of the death of Jim Shilts, C.S.C. I wrote as a means of dealing with my own inner confusion, questioning and doubts. I wrote then for myself. The writing 
-helped me. It helped me to dialogue with myself, my own inner thoughts, and my God. The writing was friend and solace. 
But it is now Sunday evening. Communities are gathering in the residence halls on campus for their weekly worship. Prayers . will "rise like incense," as the refrain says, from the hearts of many who are burdened, celebrating an occasion of glad memory, or petitioning the Lord God for a need of their own. And, lo, IT is with us again. 
D_eath has come to this community one more time. It has taken an­other loved one from our gathering, a friend from· friends, a classmate from a class, a son from his family. 
And for those on the East Quad, a resident from one of their dorms. Kevin Emery died last night in an automobile accident. Pasquerilla East and West and Flanner · and Grace gather tonight for their wor­ship as a· neighborhood. And there is sorrow in their hearts. There is loss and questioning, and anger and grief, and, for some, rising doubts about the goodness .of God. 
During your lifetime no matter how often you experience it, whether an acquaintance or loved one, whether prepared or not, the shock and all those very human responses come anew and remain. In truth, we who survive are rarely ready to deal with death. 
Geoff Raynor, former president of Fisher Hall, Chris Dandurand, in-coming resident of Dillon Hall, Paul Bertolini, Alita Buhman, Gina Cri­nella, Kathleen Roche, Frank Cav­anaugh, C.S.C., Ron Parent, Peter Brady, Bernard Ward, Jim Shilts, C.S.C.-WHY? Surely I do not ask a unique question. It must be asked by everyone. But the more inex­plicable the case, the more haunting the "Why.'' 

Some deaths are easier, even "a blessing" as we say. The elderly die. Those in constant and unrelenting suffering breathe their last. But the ?7oung? It just doesn't seem right. And there are those who come as a total shock-where does it all fit in? 
I was hastily grabbing at the last free time I had at the end of summer before returning to the first staff meeting of the year. "Get it while you_ can, Joe. The summer is almost gone.'' In my penchant for forgetful­ness and the reality of milking the last of those precious times away from the Dome, I had completely blocked the date for that first meet­ing. I called from Cleveland: Steve Warner, a colleague at campus min­istry, answered the phone. He had already heard. I had not. "Steve, what the hell are you doing in the office? Summer School is over. This is vacation, man!" 
The tone of his-first reply set me 9n edge. "Joe, have you heard?" "Heard what?" I said. "You better sit down," he counseled. "Dear God, no," I· said. "We've had enough bad news with Geoff and Paul, and Alita and Gina and Kathleen.'' And then 
OCTOBER, 1982 
27 
''Could it be that there simply are things Jor which we have no human capacity to 'reason' or 'make sense'? For the sense we see is precisely that-the sense we see. Do we eventually run into a brick wall in our reasoning and logic and there face a void which can never be filled by reasoning . .. or anything?" 
he told me. Just like that. "Jim Shilts died, Joe," Steve whispered. I closed my eyes as if to protect my­self. "My God, no!" There was a long silence. Steve was gentle as he told me the details he knew. Jim had returned from the hospital after a hernia operation. He was doing well, but then something went wrong. I la:ter found out Jim had died of a massive blood clot in his lungs. 
I was alone. The frivolous and playful mood of my phone call was countered by this shock. I was so happy before the phone call. Now it didn't compute. My whole person spit out the data. It was wrenching. I was numbed. (I still am again, es­pecially after hearing about Kevin's accident last night. All that is stirred up again. It's never easy. Never, never, never.) 
I couldn't get back for the funeral. I .get home about twice a year, and we had planned our first-ever McTaggart's Annual Picnic. All six of my brothers and sisters, their families, my parents and uncles and aunts would be there. The events were practically back to back, a pic­nic and a funeral separated by too many miles. Neither would be ex­perienced as they ought. I was alone. I would not make it to walk in pro­cession with the community and lay Jim's body next to our brothers in Holy Cross. Something had to be 
done. · I have learned over the years to befriend my journal. As soon as my heart moved from my mouth to my chest again, as soon as I caught my breath, as soon as I got some space a couple of days later, I wrote to my God and to myself. I wrote to Jim. While writing there was silence, many pauses, much time spent and lots of my heart engaged. It was . prayer to me. I approach these times with openness and longing, longing for succor and meaning, longing for the compassionate understanding and direction of my savior. Perhaps·· I only talk to myself at these times. Perhaps I pray. Perhaps God speaks to me. Whatever the case, there is no sense to impose sense. Reason at times like these is paltry. When I 
28 
write in my journal I go to the inner room of my heart with the hope of meeting the God of love and those I love. 
I was alone in the basement of my parents' home. · I knew I had to go somewhere with the matter of Jim's death. My confusion, my roller­coaster feeling, my faith all needed attention. I had to honor the search for meaning, the longing for some authentic consolation. I wrote. I was very docile as my need was great. I planned to listen perhaps everi more than I wrote. I relate it to you now exactly as I wrote it then. I have tried to put this in another form, but something gets lost in the process­too much transposing. And besides, tonight, thinking of how this com­munity of Notre Dame has to deal with yet another death, I will risk what is rather personal in hopes that the path where I found my journey leading might speak to others who also long for "some kind of mes­sage." 
(From my journal) Me: Jim, why did you die? 
Jim: There is a mystery, Joe. 
Me: Mystery! Is that the only an­swer I get? 
(A long silence) 
Me: Jesus, might I groan about the good Jim was and could continue to be doing with students. . . . Where does THAT fit in, Lord? 
The Lord: Not everything "fits in," Joe ... You are not God ... My ways are not your ways, and your ways are not my ways-thus saith the Lord. 
Me: Is it your way that Jim died? 
The Lord: It is a fact that Jim died. 
Inner Voice: Joe, look at the larger picture. 
Me: ... Could it be that we are put on this earth as gift to serve God only and his glory? Could it be that there simply are things for which we have no human capacity to "reason" or "make sense?" For the sense we see is precisely that-the sense we see. Do we eventually run into a brick wall in our reasoning and logic and there face a void which can never be filled by reasoning . . . or anything? ... Does there ultimately come a leap, not to reason but to Scriptures' words alone? 
Inner Voice: . . . "Eye has not seen, nor has ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man...." 
Me: Does it finally come down to a surrender where our reasoning has to step aside because it simply is not up to the task? In this case are we to set our sights then on the future as resurrection and the past as gift? ... We are grateful for having Jim while we did.. , . Is that what it comes to? We love because it is the only thing that gives meaning or makes any sense, and we ultimately have to realize that there are things which just don't digest. 
Inner Voice: Life is not neat as we would order it. 
Me: ... But I'm angry ... Why the hell does there have to be such pain, such tragedy? ... Why the suffer­ing? 
The Lord: You have a right to be angry. I suffer with you. 
(A very long wait in silence) 
Me: Jesus, what wouldyou say to me? 
The Lord: Go on and love and know your limitations ... and know too that the Father's love will rise be­fore the sun. 
Me: . . . Jesus, I think now of your surrender -when meaning went and the timing you wanted was out of your grasp. I think of those lines in Jesus Christ Superstar: "Show me just a little of your omnipresent brain. Why should I die?" 
SCHOLASTIC 

Inner Voice: "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? ... Father, into your hands I commend my spirit." 
(some more quiet and a lessen­ing of the inner tension) 
Me: Jesus, what do you want me to do? 
The Lord: To love. To surrender. To let go. 
Me: ... Even though I have no an­swers, the saving goal is to live for the same things Jim Shilts did. I must let go of "result-thinking." This and this will add up to this; such and such will result in this. I must let go of time-bound wishes for the Kingdom. I keep thinking that the Kingdom is just around the corner if only we work a little harder.... I must let go of the notion that good works and production actually pur­chase the incarnating of God in our presence, the coming of the Holy Spirit.... I must live and work for the sake of the work itself and not for its practical, pragmatic, or pro­phetic results. My focus and motiva­tion must be simply that I am a fol­lower of Jesus regardless of the in­consistencies I see and experience. 
Greater than my confusion· and doubt is the tradition of which I am a part. ... 
(a peaceful pause) 
Me: Jim Shilts, I miss you. Thank you for your life. You have en­couraged me to keep on keeping on ... to know that Jesus saves, that HIS is the kingdom, that HIS is the power, and that HIS is the glory for ever and ever. So be it. I pray. 
"... But I'm angry ... why the hell does there have to be such pain, such tragedy? . . . Why 
h ,.f.f: • ? "
t e suJJ enng. . . . 
I have not written so much about Jim but how he affected me. Jim Shilts was such a good man, a kind man, a faithful man. His was a powerfully gently yet significantly effective life. . . . Most of all, Jim modeled for me integrity. He was a witness to that. I think of Cardinal Suhard's quotation. "To be a witness does not consist in engaging in pro­paganda nor even in stirring people up, but in being a living mystery. It means to live in such a way that one's life would not make sense, if God did not exist.'' 
It is now late Sunday evening. The last Eucharist of Sunday gathers the remaining dorms around the table. Like others earlier this evening, we will pray as a community for all that weighs heavy on our hearts and especially for Kevin. And though the sorrow remains, we know the 
.resurrection remains even longer, so 
'We, the living, will "keep on keeping on" for "all those who have gone before us marked with the sign of faith." 
\ 
Into a dancer you have grown From a seed somebody else has thrown Go ahead and throw some seeds of your own And somewhere between the time 
you arrive And the time you go May lie a reason you were alive But you'll never know. 
Jackson Browne 
Brother Joe McTaggart, C.S.C., is 
Associate Director of Campus Minis­
try. 
(cont'd from page 9) 
arts majors may, after choosing a business career, wonder what life would have been like if they had gone to graduate school. But, this is a curiosity about what might have been, not disappointment in their chosen career. "It is likely that those who really desire the life of aca­demia will ignore the economic fu­ture and go to graduate school." Gordon says the economic picture has a "purifying effect" on those con­sidering advanced studies. "Only those with total commitment will go on to graduate school. The academic career is one of a never-ending search, an open question with no one answer. Those who do come to graduate school knowing there is no bright light at the end of the tunnel," will be better suited for the task of an academician. 
If the present situation of gradu­ate schools is readjusting, even cor­recting, career goals of undergradu­ates; if decline in enrollments is due to demographics and a decline in birthrates; if lack of funding is caused by federal administrative fiat; it seems the "problem" of gi;aduate schools is not much of a crisis. 
Can we assume those best suited for graduate school, those who desire 
OCTOBER, 1982 
advanced studies, are still choosing to go to school? Dean Waddick labels this assumption "a dangerous atti­tude" asserting "we would like to kid ourselves" into believing the best students still give graduate school as serious consideration as in the past. Without top students graduate pro­grams and faculty will suffer. Many discount such possibilities but Dean Schmitz admits faculties are suffer­ing qualitatively. 
Fewer graduate students, a pos­sible decline in the talent pool facul­ties draw from and shrinking finan­cial resources -could spell crippling damage to advanced education. To continue the circle, undergraduate programs could suffer from quanti­tative and qualitative decline in fac­
.ulty due to insufficient replacements. Hope lies in increased awareness of the problem. The quality of Notre 
. Dame's graduate program is a vital concern for the 1980s (Notre Dame Magazine, July 1982); new sources of funds are being created; the An­drew W. Mellon Foundation is creat­ing a $24 million humanities fellow­ship program. Yet, the problems graduate schools face, if left un­tended, are not likely to go away without leaving scars. D Tim Judge is a senior English major 
(cont'd from page 13) 
aged supermarket/retail stores can­not incorporate and sell. This human­itarianism must be given away. The Farmer's Market, Inc., is a con­glomerate of people, helping and serving people on a genuine, real level. 
Back in 1923, when the Market first began serving the South Bend community, it was to be a place of commerce. That was all. The farm­ers would get their produce to the city folks and, when the sales were made, both ends would be satisfied. But today, over 50 years later, the Market is still thriving and growing, despite all the modern advancements and business enterprises. No mat­ter how much machinery and theory goes into_ the next generation of supermarket technology, nothing can replace the human aspect. What a compliment to know that Norma Nelson, Wayne Sawyer, Tom Klug, and the rest of the "family" at the Market are getting up at five in the morning just for us! To go to the Market is really to go home. D 
Katie Gilligan is a senior American Studies ·major from Oak Brook, IL. This is her first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
(co~t'd from page 4) 
Placement Manual contains sample interviews and lists fifty questions that employers are likely to ask stu­dents. 
"I found out a little about each company before I went in," said former Aerospace Engineering major Steve Gibson. "Usually on the back of the pamphlets are answers to questions that a person might ask about the company. You don't want to ask those questions because that would show that you hadn't read the material and didn't have much in­terest in the company," Steve ex­plained. 
McCloy, the recruiter from Chemi­cal Bank, said she is cautious against students who know nothing· about the industry and don't ask questions. But she also said, "I have problems with someone who has read through the annual reports, has all the buzz words, and just tries to regurgitate them during the interview." 
Once a student researches the company, the next step is to make a good impression in the interview. Most students look over the questions in the Manual and consider how they would answer them. Sometimes the questions turn out to be something other than what they expected. 
Said Steve of his interview with McDonnell Douglas: "I thought the hardest kind of question they would ask would be things like 'Tell me about yourself,' and 'Why do you want to work with us?' But they didn't ask me that. I think business companies ask those broad kinds of questions _more often than engineer­ing companies." 
Some interviewers ask questions that really catch the student off guard. "One of them asked me, 'How would you explain our economic sys­tem to a Martian?' " Renee remem­bered. "I managed to think up an answer and survived the question." 
Both students and recruiters em­phasize the importance of being yourself during an interview. "You can tell when a person is being him­self and when he is putting on airs,'' said Joseph Brennan, a marketing consultant for Computer Partners. "I know it is difficult for them because they want to impress you. But they should say what they feel, not what they think the recruiter wants to hear." 
Sometimes a student is reluctant to be totally frank. "Everyone wants to impress the person that he wants 
30 
the job and that it's the best thing that ever happened,'' Steve said. "It's just part of being formal. They probably know you are stretching the truth to some extent. But maybe it does influence their decision." 
In addition to personality, appear­ance also makes an impression on recruiters. "One guy told me about a girl who walked into an interview wearing a slit skirt. The interviewer was turned off immediately," said Renee. 
Edward Callahan, a consultant for Computer Partners and a Notre Dame graduate, commented, "The way they dress shows how they feel about themselves.'!_ His associate, Brennan, agreed. "It's a manifesta­tion of concern. It shows how much they cared about the interview," he said. 
Students are not the only ones who are on trial during the inter­view. When students discover that an interviewer's mannerisms are of­fensive or that the expectations of a company do not match their own, they lose interest in the job. 
"I've encountered every type of personality from A to Z," Renee commented. "Some make you feel relaxed as soon as you get there. But the interviewer from Arthur Ander­sen acted like he had starch in his collar. I felt very uncomfortable with him." 
When Eileen interviewed with Arthur Andersen, she found that the firm's expectations were not com­patible with hers. "Arthur Andersen knew I wasn't thrilled about some of the job requirements-like the rules above overtime--because I told them how I felt. They sent me a rejection letter," she said. 
Renee also had an experience with a firm that didn't meet her expecta­tions. "I asked the interviewer about the interaction between employees at the top and bottom of the staff. He bluntly told me that there was none. He seemed very indignant. I knew then that that wasn't the firm for me," she said. 
Eileen said she has heard others 
complain about rude interviewers. 
"One of my friends complained to 
the Placement Bureau about an in­
terviewer, and they are not going to 
have that company back again," she 
commented. · 
Companies realize they must make a good impression to attract the stu­dents they want. A lot of them use mixers, special presentations, ancf even all-expense-paid trips to the firm in their recruiting efforts. For example, Chemical Bank uses these recruiting ideas in addition to things like taking students out to dinner on occasion. 
A common way for students and employees to meet informally is the mixer. "I went to a mixer with 
T.R.W. (an aerospace firm in Cali­fornia)," said Steve. "They explained what the company did and showed slides. They wanted to get rid of some of the questions you might ask in the interview, to give you some background on the company." Steve thinks he had a smoother interview because he had met the interviewer at the mixer the night before. "I kind of knew what to expect, and I felt at ease with him," he explained. 
If a company is really interested in a student, they sometimes invite her to visit them and pay her ex­
penses. Eileen visited the Kodak Company in her ·hometown of Roch­ester, New York. They showed slides, gave her a tour of the com­pany, and conducted several inter­views. 
After interviewing, wining, dining, and touring students, employers de­cide whether or not to hire them based on how qualified they are and how well they fit in with the com­pany's objectives. 
"For my money, a good recruiter doesn't look for a specific area, she looks for talent," said McCloy. "I'm here to find out if ·the student is qualified professionally-if he is pre­pared.'' 
Brennan explained what Computer Partners looks for in an employee: "The nature of our business is such that we want the people who have the tools. We want people with native intelligence and logical thinking abil­ity. Personality is also important to us because our people are constantly exposed to clients." For Computer Partners, personal qualities are more important than technical experience. "The students we hire will fill tech­nical positions. But we feel that if they. have the ability, we can train them," Brennan said. 
What happens when the right em­ployer finds the right student? Renee told why she chose to work with Arthur Young: "The people at the firm impressed me. I went to lunch with one of the employees, and she was so enthusiastic about the firm that I knew something was right." And Eileen explained what clicked about the job offer she accepted from the Kodak Company: "I ·was very honest with them, I felt that I fit in with the company and that they were what I wanted." A lot of other Notre Dame seniors are searching for that perfect job fit. D 
SCHOLASTIC 

-Tl1e Last Word------­
This fairy tale is dedicated to my mom and dad. 
Once upon a time there was a young girl who lived in a nice house with her parents, three sisters, one brother, and semi-Irish cockapoo dog named Erin Go Bragh. The young girl grew up in northern Indiana which topographically speaking, is much like Kansas minus the wheat 
fields. 
The young girl had a very happy 
childhood. She and her sisters would 
often dismantle the swing set so they 
could pretend to be a world-famous 
acrobatic troupe in the circus. Un­
fortunately, their excellence never 
got much further than ripping their 
underpanties on the screws which 
protruded from the top bar. 
Day after day the young girl 
would ride her white banana-seat 
bicycle, wi:.h pink flowers and a 
white wicker basket around the cir­
cle, dreaming of the future and the 
far-off places she longed to visit. She 
would sing a song she'd heard some­
where which went something like, 
"Somewhere over the rainbow ..." 
She dreamed about being a doctor, 
lawyer, or Indian chieftess (the In­
dian chief being a career still ham­
pered by her sex). 
One day the young girl was out­
side building one of her many sum­
mer forts. While trying to knock out 
a crooked spike from the second 
floor, her hand slipped and the ham­
mer came up and struck her in the 
forehead, knocking her out cold. 
(This is how the young girl got the 
nickname "Hammerhead Healy" in 
fifth grade.) 
As she lay on her bed with an ice 
pack on her forehead, a fairy goddess 
appeared to speak with her. Iron­
ically, this fairy goddess was the 
same woman who tucked her in for 
daily naps, and washed her dirty 
face. 
"Oh fairy goddess," the young girl 
cried, "how I long to see far-off 
places and do wonderful things." 
"You will, you will, my child," 
answered the fairy goddess. "But for 
now, go to sleep. For the knot on 
your forehead grows larger." 
So the girl went to sleep for 
a while, until the fairy god came 
home from a day in the kingdom. 
"Oh fairy god, how I long to see 
far-off places and do wonderful 
things," she said again. 
"You will, you will, my child," 
said the fairy god. "But you best 
OCTOBER, 1982 
sleep awhile longer, for your eye has begun to turn black.'' 
The girl fell fast asleep and during this time she travelled with the fairy god and goddess all over the States. She went to visit relatives in Texas and Louisiana; saw the sunrise at the Grand Canyon; ate lobster sand­wiches on the cold Massachusetts shore; explored Chicago, New York, and Boston; and even went to Alaska to work in the mountains for a summer. She had a delightful time. 
The girl also went to school and studied hard to become smart. When the time came for her to go to col­lege, she gained admission to a prom­inent University, where the goddess named Notre Dame reigned. One 

:fl 
;,,­
E=J 
u, 
spring vacation before the girl went to the University, she travelled with the fairy goddess and god to Florida. 
At sunset one evening, the girl and the fairy goddess walked along the beach. They talked of many things -dreams and plans, hopes and visions, days past in northern Indiana. As the sun sank over the horizon, the fairy goddess etched something in the sand with her size six and one-half foot. It read, "I will always remember this lovely time with you darlin' Beth.'' The girl and the goddess shed a few sen­timental tears, hugged each other, and walked on. As the girl looked at the fairy goddess walking along­side her, she thought "If I can only 
by Beth Healy 
be as good and loving as she is, my 
life will be complete.'' 
Soon the girl went off to the Uni­versity, under the care of Our Lady. There she studied and learned many grand things -philosophy, theol­ogy, literature, Emil's chemistry, mathematics (much to the chagrin of her professors), French and writ­ing. The girl loved her studies, though they often tired her out. 
Her second year at the University, the girl went to France to study and explore the romantic, old-world tra­ditions of Europe. There she wan­dered through Italy, Germany, Ire­land, Spain, France, Switzerland; sleeping in train stations, and living off bread, cheeses, wine, and choco­late. It was not the most comfortable time she'd ever had, for she missed her kingdom and fairy gods, but such is the price one pays in far-off lands. It was all part of the "ex­perience." 
When the girl returned to the land of Our Lady, she had to decide on her career, a frightening yet excit­ing prospect. She consulted with the fairy god and goddess, and per usual they told her to follow her heart's desire. Now the girl had an inkling that she might do OK as a writer and so she decided on American Studies. Her fairy goddess and god gave her a golden Cross pen with which to write and the girl became editor of Scholastic, a real test of her conviction in all that writing non­sense. 
Time wore on, as it always does, and the girl realized one September day that her stay at Notre Dame's kingdom was drawing to a close. She would have to make another deci­sion; what to do in a world most people called "real." She consulted with the fairy god and goddess again and per usual, they tcild her to follow her heart's desire. The only problem was that her heart had many desires, far too many to fill a lifetime. So the girl had to choose her greatest desire. She decided to consult with the God who helped Our Lady at the University. 
"'Heaven help me," she cried. "The world says I must, I may, I will, I should do many great things. Yet which is the greatest?" 
"Do what your heart desires most," was the reply. 
31 







So the girl thought of far-off 
(cont'd from page 135) 
Coming Next
lands, dreams, Indian chiefs and 
such. She thought of her golden 
Her treatment of the Catholic 
Issue ... 
pen, one treasure she never wanted 
Church is rooted in her Catholic up­
to relinquish. She thought of New Scholastic will look at
bringing and in the years she spent
York and Chicago, where writers 
the ;Liberal Arts. ·
in a Franciscan convent. She was
tend t? flock. Then she thought of 
the youngest by five years of four 
How do you define the liberal
her fairy goddess and their evening 
children, and had few playmates.
on the beach in Florida. Her heart 
arts education?
"My brothers and sister were too old
!wisted and turned, and tied itself 
t~ play with me much, and any other 
Which of the following do you
m little knots. What was to be her 
kids were at least half a mile away. 
consider the purpose of a Notre
top-priority desire? 
So I amused myself with my imagi­
Dame/Saint Mary's education?
The girl wished she had a swing 
nation, and developed an elaborate 
s~t from which she could hang up­
a. To get a decent job as a
fantasy life. I think that has a lot to
side-down and think; wished her 
do with the person I am today­
result of the reputation
banana-seat bicycle had not rusted· 
with the fact that I'm a writer." She 
and educational benefits. 
wished she had a summer fort i~ 
entered the convent right after high 
b. To develop my personal
which to hole up for a few days. And' 
school, "for all the traditional rea­
the more she wished, the more she 
thought patterns and con­
sons: I felt I had a vocation, and I
realized that her thoughts always re­
sciousness of the world
was taken with the idea of service
turned to the days in her kingdom, 
and self-sacrifice." Her academic 
around ine.
where the fairy god and goddess 
interests also played a part in the 
c. To develop my faith
took care of her. Finally, it dawned 
move, and she earned an English 
as well as my talents.
on her that what her heart really 
degree and taught high school on
loved was life in the kingdom and 
d. To meet a guy (girl). 
the prairies. As her world opened
that if she could have her own king­
more and more, she began to feel 
How successful do you think
dom someday, and be her own fairy 
that, "It didn't all fit; that just
goddess, her life would be complete. Notre Dame is at accomplishing 
wasn't the way for me," and she left
. Now don't get me wrong, the little 
this purpose? 
the convent.
girl had not forsaken all the dreams 
The same interests which led her 
Which of the following would
and visions in exchange for life in 
into and out of the convent even­
h~r kingdom. This is not to say you choose as ND/SMC's
tually led her to Notre Dame· and
either that she found her kingdom, 
greatest influence on your
in South Bend her interests 'have
only that she saw the value in the 
education? (Rank importance.)
broadened even more. Carson Daly
life and love of a very special fairy 
says, "I honestly don't know how she 
a. Time spent in classes. 
god and goddess. 
does all she does. She goes folk­
The End. 
b. The amount of homework
dancing at the Unitarian Church, she
P.S. If she ever wakes up, don't 
and outside reading. 
travels, she even canes chairs! And
tell her I told you all of this for 
of cm~rse she wants to pour all her 
c. Time spent with the other 
she'll want to tell you herself. 'And 
extra energy into her writing. And 
students.
say a prayer her black eye is gone. 
that's all aftei; balancing her home· 
d. Time spent with pro­
and her career, which is an achieve­ment in itself. No one was telling 
fessors outside class. children thirty years ago: 'You're 
e. The spiritual atmosphere
JaVt'~ CBoutlque 
going to have to be able to have a • 
of ND/SMC.
really stellar career (which is what
6otr 
f. Its national reputation
she's developing for herself), and be and sports recognition. 
able to cook lasagna too.' And yet 
she's managed to do it all.'' 
V~e c..NatutraQ Cut 
What place does liberal arts
There is an old saying to the effect 
have in a world given over to
that most of the useful work in this 
world is done by people who are al­
technology? ready busy and tired and don't have 
What is the value, if a~~v, for a
the time for it to begin with. But 
business or science student to
they are the people who get things done; and Sonia Gemes must be 
study philosophy or theology? numbered among them. A student in 
Sho~ld there be something
her Women Writers class, Martin
Open six days a week 
special about a liberal arts
Frazier, explains why. "I took this
with five operators to 
education in a Catholic school
class because of her-I heard she
serve you. 
from that in a secular school? .gut feeling that she's going some-
was very good. And now I have this 
Evening appointments 
Does a liberal arts education
where. I think she's going to be
if desired. ' · 
prepare you for life? If so,
somebody someday.'' . Some might 
say she already is. D 
how? 
Call 234-5350 
Send your responses to
Mary Powel Jabaley is a senior En­gli.sh major from Jackson, MS. 
Scholastic, LaFortune Center 
..,______________. on campus. ' 
SCHOLASTIC 
. ' . 
. . . . 

------------------------1 
• 
,-$4 
~~ 
VILLAGE GREENHOUSE 

$9.95/dozen 
Sing/e/$1.00 each 
C~ecle ouft p1tLCeg 0&1. coftgageg a&1.d loouto&1.&1.tefteg. 
Single 45 tf. I each 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
212-5335 
Wire Flowers Anywhere 
I
I I 
,,_._.,_II 
I
~~-'i ! I 
I 
: , I I1~--,~', 1 :! I I
I' ' 
i~I
l~i
'M' 
,~ i
I -! 
1 • I
I I 
I I 
I 
I i 
I 
I 
' 
L , _____...;:_ 

ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 

FREE PARKING 
FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSELAND 
HOURS­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closed Sunday 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES 

• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 



. . ­





