THE FINEST SUITS, TOPCOATS
AND HABERDASHERY AVAILABLE
IN TODAY'S WORLD MARKETS
It is the aim of the Campus Shop to bring you the finest clothing available. That is why we offer you a selection of famous brand names: Hickey-Freeman, Society Brand, GGG, Eagle, ‘Botany’ ‘500,’ Alpagora, and many others. From these fine clothes, we feel sure you will find the model most becoming to you . . . and at the price you want to pay. Why not visit the Campus Shop soon?
On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
October 17, 1958
Scholastic
Vol. 100 October 17, 1958 No. 3
5	Disce Quasi Semper Victims
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
COMMENTARY
Students are funny. Each fall, during registration, a two-dollar student activity fee is collected from almost everyone to support the activities of Notre Dame’s student government. Each fall, there is a great deal of grumbling and complaining about this unfair and ridiculous fee and a lament about the persecution of the poor student. After registration and with the start of school, the matter is quickly forgotten.	-
Monday night the Student Senate decided how it was going to spend half of that student activity fee. This rather important business, although necessarily long and drawn out, was witnessed by none of these same students who were so vehement in their denunciation of student government and students who run around the Student Center wearing coats and ties. If this same student government doesn’t provide the dances, telecasts, mixers and all the other activities that are expected, the same howl that was heard at registration is repeated. And yet, there is not enough interest in where the money is spent to attract one single member of the student body who was not connected with the Senate in some way. Students sure are funny.
GEORGE CLEMENTS
।	Editor
BOB SEDLACK
;,	Associate Editor
U RON BLUBAUGH_________________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE___________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.................Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.............Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK.......Business Manager BOB FANCHER............-Photography
, DAVE SOMMER________________Photography
*	LYN RELPH...................Assistant	News
?	ROY RUBELI...___________Assistant News
BOB MARUYAMA...........Assistant Copy
CHAS RIECK-------------------Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS..............-Assistant Copy ' FRANK DUDA.........Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER..........-Assistant Features
TOM ROSE...............-Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER.........Assistant Sports BOB HORN..............Assistant Business
The Scholastic is continually looking for serious and humorous fiction and any type of non-fiction that would interest all or most of our readers (if such a thing is possible). Those interested should bring them to the Scholastic office (second floor -of Center) between 7:30 and 9:30 on Sunday nights or to Jim Yoch in 127 Pangborn.
The Army pep rally was certainly an inspiring and enthusiastic one, to say the least. However, it was a shame that the extensive preparations by the Blue Circle . pep rally committee were so rudely disregarded. It isn’t in good taste, in our opinion, to have unannounced speakers barging in on the program to slurringly proclaim their Notre Dame loyalty. The fact that their presence was authorized by “prominent and important” University officials doesn’t make any difference. This was, we thought, supposed to be a student pep rally conducted by students. Others present are invitees and not necessary evils.	,
Justice Sherman Minton of the Supreme Court will preside over the final Moot Court sessions tomorrow night at 8 in the Engineering Auditorium. This will be . an interesting affair and we urge you to go over and see these future lawyers per- . form before three prominent judges including Justice Minton.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and , Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
It has been, is, and will be Scholastic policy to print in “Repercussion” only those letters which are signed. We will withhold the writer’s name upon request but he must sign his letter. (With regard to repercussions directed at the editorials: . The editors affix their initials at the end of their editorials with somewhat the same -idea that manufacturers have in supplying their customers with brand names;, that is, they stand behind their products. Anyone who criticizes an editorial should be eager to sign his name if he goes to the trouble of .writing a letter. If he doesn’t, we can only infer that he is neither proud nor courageous enough to stand behind his product, his opinion.) ■
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina-u- tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame.
Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manu-■ scripts to-the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
We would like to remind all. seniors interested in national fellowships that the various deadlines for application are drawing near. Information on these grants is posted in the senior halls and can also be obtained from the deans of the colleges.
'• Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year, !	Volume 100:	No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No.	3,
!	Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5, Oct. 31; No.	6,
Nov. 7; No.	7, Nov. 14; No. 8, Nov. 21; No.	9,
, Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12; „	No. 11, Jan.	16; No. 12, Jan. 23; No. 13, Feb. 13;
'	No. 14, Feb.	20; No. 15, Feb. 27; No. 16, March	6;
No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, ) April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, ' May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25, May 29.	.	■
(One of the two editors will be defunct if we don’t mention this.) The senior / . class — 44 of them — of St. Xavier’s College in Chicago are interested in arranging ~ a dinner dance with 44 Notre Daine seniors on either October 31 or November 1. Any .i f. interested seniors should contact Bob Sedlack, 239 Walsh, Rich Ryan, CE 4-8782, or any officer of the Chicago Club as soon as possible. (George Clements had nothing to . -do with this—Sedlack is just bigger!)	_ -	<
;	OFFICE HOURS
I Sunday, 7:30-11:30; Monday, 1:30-5:30, I 7:30-11:30; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; . Friday, j 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open. ,
| October 17, 1958	'
Notice to Jim Bennett, news director of WSND: The Student Senate has changed ' the weekly meeting date from Wednesday to Monday. We respectfully suggest that ~ you secure more facts concerning what the Senate has and has not done, especially 4 at the latest meeting, before you make any more inaccurate statements on your Spam^-Xa^ news shows. For your information, the Senate has accomplished some things this A t 4-<A year. For what they did last Monday night, consult the article on page 13. Freedqmf^-^^ of the press, Jim, also entails responsibilities. One of ,these responsibilities is sure that your facts are correct.—The Editors. .	. .	..	44
; ;	_ ’	■	f <	_	. - '	' •. 1 A?-^44^:44
Ontaqns MuShnhan
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
THE TRUE AND HARROWING FACTS ABOUT RUSHING
VACATION!! WEEKENDS!! See THE MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE For Airline Reservations at no extra charge
LaSalle Hotel	CE 2-2253
® iQims
It is well enough to sit in one’s Morris chair and theorize about sorority rushing, but if one really wishes to know the facts, one must leave one’s Morris chair and go out into the field. My Morris chair, in-cidently, was given to me by the makers of Philip Morris. They also gave me my Philip chair. They are great-hearted folk, the makers of Philip Morris, as millions of you know who have enjoyed their excellent cigarettes. Only from bountiful souls could come such mildness, such flavor, such pleasure, as you will find in Philip Morris! For those who prefer crushproof boxes, Philip Morris is available in crushproof boxes. For those who prefer soft packs, Philip Morris is available in soft packs. For those who prefer to buy their cigarettes in bulk, please contact Emmett R. Sigafoos, friendly manager of our factory in Richmond, Virginia.
But I digress. I was saying that in order to know the true facts about sorority rushing, one must go into the field and investigate. Consequently, I went last week to the Indiana College of Spot Welding and Belles-Lettres and interviewed several million coeds, among them a lovely lass named Gerund McKeever. (It is, incidentally, quite an interesting little story about how she came to be named Gerund.) It seems that her father, Ralph T. McKeever, loved grammar better than anything in the world, and so he named all his children after parts of speech. In addition to
Gerund, there were three girls named Preposition, Adverb, and Pronoun, and one boy named Dative Case. The girls seemed not to be unduly depressed by their names, but Dative Case, alas, grew steadily more morose and was finally found one nightdanglingfrom a participle. After this tragic event, the father abandoned his practice of grammatical nomenclature, and whatever children were sub
Filter smokers, have you tried today's Marlboro? The filter’s improved and the flavor’s as great as ever. More than ever, you get a lot to like in a Marlboro, made by the sponsor of this column.
sequently born to him—eight in all—were named Everett. *
But I digress. I was interviewing a lovely coed named Gerund McKeever. “Gerund,” I said, “were you rushed by a sorority?”
“Yes, mister,” she said, “I was rushed by a sorority.”
“Did they give you a high-pressure pitch?” I asked. “Did they use the hard sell?”
“No, mister,” she replied. “It was all done with quiet dignity. They simply talked to me about the chapter and the girls for about three minutes and then I pledged.”
“My goodness!” I said. “Three minutes is not very long for a sales talk!”
“It is when they are holding you under water, mister,” said Gerund.
“Well, Gerund,” I said, “how do you like the house?”
“I like the house fine, mister,” she replied. “But I don’t live there. Unfortunately, they pledged more girls than they have room for, so they are sleeping some of us in the bell tower.”
“Isn’t that rather noisy?” I said.
“Only on the quarter-hour,” said Gerund.
“Well, Gerund,” I said, “it has certainly been a pleasure talking to you,” I said.
“Likewise, mister,” she said, and with many a laugh and cheer we went our separate ways—she to the campanile, I to the Morris chair. © 1958. Max Shulman
URRARY aid B00FSR0P
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —

Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
Keep On Your Toes With
noqGz
Now that you’ve got yourself into college, let safe, handy NoDoz tablets help you get out. Harmless NoDoz helps you keep alert through long, late cramming sessions ... keeps you on your toes during exams. NoDoz tablets are safe as coffee and much more convenient.

i
the lost harpsichord
!> A little while ago, much to my surprise, I discovered a letter imbedded in the dust of my mailbox. So, with a deft ; blow of a cold chisel, I removed the rust-clogged lock and examined my “sur-S	prise.” Inside was a neat bit of office
j,	stationery, with a letterhead in Old
|' English type reading, “Office of Student Accounts” and in the middle of the page this entry:
I Harpsichord lessons..........$42.03
Below this was a notice which many may recognize as Form Z23069-K, or i Courteous Reminder with Thinly Veiled * Threat. Now, as far as I know, my last | encounter with a keyboard instrument >> (except a typewriter) was in the sixth grade, when it was discovered that I was unable to do anything other than find “middle C” after two years of intense ■> study. This bill seemed about as likely as one for a phone call. to the Cape Verde Islands, or so I thought. At any rate, I headed for the Main Building, * armed with a Student Manual, a box of candy, and a copy of Griswold’s “Book of Snappy Comebacks for All Occasions.”
When I got to the office in question, K I was detained in an anteroom for about an hour and a half, until a secretary ushered me into an office, which was decorated with a large faded mural of the Cathedral of Burgos. The young man behind the desk looked up from the pencil
*’ he was sharpening and said: “Well?”
I informed him of the bill, which I offered for his scrutiny, and assured him that the harpsichord and I were total >• strangers. He scanned the letter, resumed his pencil-sharpening, and said . suspiciously:
“Have you every played an instrument • that looked like a harpsichord?”
“No, I don’t think so.”
“Well, can you prove that you haven’t?
* I though about this for a while, then decided that very few of my friends would testify to my non-harpsichord-। playing without snickering. Meanwhile, • the young man began to lecture me on the penalties for falsifying records and on the efficient procedure I was disrupting. My gaze fell upon a Bible on a
? lectern, on which I was willing to swear that I came from a long line of unmusi-
; cal people. I was about to suggest that I do this, when he said: “Perhaps you 4 could demonstrate your inability to play this instrument. Can you?”
I played with this suggestion, such as it was, for a few minutes, then asked if it might be proved that there was no harpsichord on campus. He seemed im' pressed by this idea, and walked to a , huge bank of files which seemed to con-‘ tain records of University property. He
October 17, 1958
observed that there was a record of a harpsichord purchased in 1884, which had been stored on the fourth floor of the Main Building for the last thirty years. After some more shuffling of papers, he remarked: “There are pianos here. Perhaps one of them is a harpsichord.”
This reply left me at a temporary loss. He began to lecture again, and my thoughts shifted from the Bible to a large ornamental letter-opener, in the shape of a scimitar, which lay on the desk. Perhaps it wasn’t really sharp, though. At length, this person produced the original bill for the lessons. It was written on a piece of coarse manila paper, and looked as though it had been left to soak for several days in a vat of pickle brine. The cost was barely legibile on the bill, and the signature, written in smudged pencil, looked like Jmmm L. Bmmmmmn. (The linotypist will doubtless leave out an “m” somewhere. This is not my fault.)
“This is probably not my name,” I said.
“Stuff and nonsense,” said he, “But I will dismiss the matter if you will sign a few forms.”
This consisted of writing my name and student number on fifteen papers of different colors. When I had finished, he remarked, observing the papers I had signed:
“Aren’t they pretty? Just like autumn in their multi-colored grandeur.”
By this time I was half way out the door. He began to mutter something about an unpaid bill for a linotype machine, but I didn’t stay to listen. Sometimes this sort of thing gets out of hand.
FASCINATING REGULATIONS DEPT.
A sweating and mud-caked messenger recently arrived at my room clutching an important communique concerning the regulations which will govern the Sorin Saturday Bacchanalia in the future. At present, these rules are being engraved on a brass plate which will be attached to the Sorin porch. Meanwhile, however, I will set them down in this column for your admiration:
Rule I. All wind instruments of brass, gold, or polystyrene shall be banned. As for stringed instruments, only the three-stringed lute, the balalaika, and the dulcimer shall be permissible, except between 1300-1450 (Greenwich Mean Time), when the lower three octaves of the piano may be heard. Percussion instruments are banned altogether, unless muffled so that they do not exceed 35 decibels.
Rule II. Concerning the music to be .
by JOHN BELLAIRS
played upon the aforementioned instruments and sung in accompaniment with them: Certain songs, because of their lyrics, shall be prohibited. Among these are: “The Ship Caulker’s Lament,” “The Dying Itinerant Chimneysweep’s Song to His Somewhat Disgruntled Admirers,” and the “Wreck of the H.M.S. Disconsolate off the Coast of Van Diemen’s Land.”
Rule III. Pertaining to Costume: Students may wear blazers with stripes running horizontally, but certainly not vertically. Forbidden are Tyrolean hats, baggy knockers, and leather jerkins, except when worn with sequins in nonsubversive colors.
Rule IV. There will be no public flogging, ridiculing, or burning in effigy of student government officials, except with permission of the one being flogged, ridiculed, or burned.
Rule V. No student shall set fire to a spectator or to the porch, or, at least, he shall not brag about it.
Rule VI. No one named Charlie Bowen shall be allowed to be on the porch at all, except to sell pennants and windshield stickers.
Anyone violating any of the above rules shall be made to sit in the stadium with his back to the field during the games. This will contribute to de-em-phasis in sports.
SPORTS DEPT.
Now that Frisbie (one of 14 accepted spellings) seems to be about as popular as 15-man rugby, there is need for new diversion to keep the students from their work. I will suggest a few, or as many as will fill the rest of this column.
Kick-the-Can. This can be quite amusing, especially when played on the grass in the middle of the main quadrangle. The ensuing race between the players and the ID-seeking policeman can be almost as much fun as the game itself.
Pick-up-Sticks. This game has the advantage of being originally intended for children of ages 3-7, as was Frisbie. As an added refinement, the sticks may be sharpened and dipped in curare, for use against unruly players.
Ukrainian Hockey. This is played upon a hexagonal field, by two teams. One team is dressed in khakis and T-shirts, the other in suits and ties. At each vertex of the hexagon is a pocket, and they are numbered from one to six, with a zero-pocket in the center of the field. The object of the game is to kick a skull into one of the pockets^ or to keep it out, depending on the team you are on. A great game for studentfaculty teams.
7
The Choice
।	Magic moment beyond compare . . .
‘	a diamond ring for this love you
1	share. In making this important
'	lifetime purchase, you'll be wise to
j	choose a diamond of finest quality
’’	... a perfect diamond.
‘	There is no more expressive
•	symbol, no greater assurance of
•;	value than a Keepsake — the en-
gagement ring with the perfect
7 -	center diamond. Only	a gem of this
f	flawless quality, fine	color and ex-
« .	pert cut can reflect	full diamond
;	fire and brilliance.	To help you
■ choose with confidence, the Keep-t. soke Certificate presented with your
A. H. POND CO., INC. ------- Producers of Keepsake and Starfire Diamond Rings
A
of a Lifetime
ring guarantees perfect quality (or replacement assured). Keepsake also registers your ring permanently, assuring lifetime trade-in privilege and protection against loss of the diamonds for one year.
Why risk an unwise choice when the Keepsake Guarantee gives you all the facts. Look in the ring and on the tag for the name "Keepsake," the diamond ring you will wear with pride forever. Many beautiful styles from $100. to $10,000—at authorized Keepsake Jewelers only.
Rings from left fo right
JULIET Ring 575 00
Also $500 to 2475
Wedding Ring	175.00
ROLAND Ring	400.00
Wedding Ring	125.00
BAXTER Ring	225.00
Also $100 to 750
Wedding Ring	20.00
HAYDEN Ring	125.00
Wedding Ring	42.50
All rings .available either natural or white gold. Prices include . Federal Tax. Rings enlarged to show details.
® Trade-mark registered.

' Dating if really fun ... when you know
I	THE ART OF DATING
. by Dr. Evelyn Millis Duvall
An expert guide to happy, successful dating to . make your teens the best years of your life. I This fact-filled book is written by Dr. Evelyn 1 Millis Duvall, famous author and counselor. . REGULARLY $2.50 in hard cover, this book is I yours in the exclusive Keepsake edition for
ONLY 50< AND THIS COUPON AT ANY ■ KEEPSAKE JEWELER'S STORE. If dealer is not I listed in yellow pages, write to Keepsake Dia-
mond Rings, Syracuse 2, N. Y., for his name. I DO NOT SEND MONEY, PLEASE.

Have a WORM of FUN!
Travel with UTA
Unbelievable Low Cost
Europe
•	*•*» $645
Orient
43-65 D«y* fnm $998
Many fours induce college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
26th Year
L 332 So. Michigan Im. ■K-Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
LARGE MIDWESTERN MANUFACTURING FIRM
Needs three young men for part time employment three evenings weekly, five hours on Saturday. Car necessary. Call a.m., or write:
MR. EARL W. HOELSCHER,
606 No. Scott St., South Bend 16, Indiana — Tel. CE 2-4596
EARN EXTRA MONEY
One day a week doing mailing work. Write for particulars. UBS, 2901 Otis Street, N.E. Washington 18, D. C.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
R-O.T.C. BRASS BADGES AND ACCESSORIES
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
K0DL KROSSWORD No. 3
ACROSS
1. Symposia
5. A companion, for hams
9. Literary effort on a towel
12.	A burly folk singer
13.	Package from home
14.	Slang for arbitrator
15.	Cock-and-buli-story dispenser (2 words)
17. Health resort 18. Kind of angle 19. With Kools your throat feels-------
21. Miss Millay
23.	Piece of music requiringstudy?
24.	What the crowd lets out
25.	Magnetic music makers
26.	Creditor (abbr.) 27. What you do after 4 hours on a fast horse
30. Decorate
34.	’ten---! (Phonetic military)
35.	Moolah in India 36. New kind of
ness
41.	Bristle
42.	An outfit
43.	The person who got you into all of this
45.	A card
46.	Lower
47.	Don’t feel
so good
48.	Formerly first
49.	Intra-fraternity competition
50.	Foxy
DOWN
1.	Kools come regular or king-size with------
2.	Exceed
3.	Victoria---
4.	An Egyptian wiggler
5.	She’s French
6.	The lowest scorer wins
7.	Play----
8.	Williams-type Desire
9.	When in the library (2 words)
10.	Get in the way
11.	Double in----
16. Biblical city
20. Classical dance tune
22. Miss Francis
27.	Of the stars
28.	The tobacco in Kool is--------
29.	Usually, when you're kissed you’re--------
31.	Manon, Aida, etc.
32.	Follow again
33.	Pretty close
37.	English cousin of 8 Down
38.	Goddess of Youth
39.	Equal of the French
40.	What the sun does every morning
44. The 1st half of a child’s saw
KGDL
fiwitcli -from tiOW J
-Io Shew Fresh )
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels clean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience
in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mild, mild menthol.. .for a cleaner fresher taste all through the day!
Answer on Page 33
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR... OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER! .
© 1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
with
K®L
MHDNSMTWOL KIMG-SIZC
Job facts from Du Pont
DU PONT PLANTS AND LABORATORIES IN 26 STATES OFFER VARIED JOD LOCATIONS TO TECHNICAL STUDENTS
BENEFIT PROGRAM MEANS ADDED INCOME
by H. J. Hollberg
DuPont personnel representative
Don’t ■forget the “extras” of an employee benefit program when you compare’the-job offers , and salaries of different companies. At Du Pont, these extras mean added income that doesn’t always meet the eye. They include life insurance, group hospitalization and surgical coverage, accident and health insurance, pension plan and paid vacation.
In addition, the Company sponsors a thrift plan. After two years of service, for every dollar you invest in U. S. Savings Bonds the Company sets aside 25 cents for the purchase of common stock in your name. Roughly, 60,000 of our employees are now participating in this plan.
If you have specific questions on DuPont benefits, just send them to me. Til be happy to try to answer diem. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Room 12421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
EXPANSION PROGRAM OPENS OP MANY NEW CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
The location of your first assignment with DuPont depends on your qualifications and on the openings in your field, but every effort is made to match the job and die location with your preference. The chances for a successful match are good.
Today there are men and women carving out careers with DuPont at more than 75 plants and nearly 100 laboratories spread throughout 26 states. Last year the Company spent $220 million for new plants and for increased capacities at existing installations. This year new plants have already been put into operation in Virginia and Michigan. Six more are under construction. Others are planned for the near future.
Most DuPont units, it is true, are located east of the Mississippi. Company headquarters, for example, along with many labs and plants, are located in and around Wilmington, Delaware, which is a pleasant residential area within easy reach of Washington, Philadelphia and New "York But there are also plants and laboratories in California, Iowa, Kansas and Texas, and plants in Colorado, Missouri and Washington.
Wherever you’re assigned, you’ll be proud of die DuPont Company both on and off die job. you’ll find the people you work with friendly, stimulating, and active in the life of die community.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MOVIE AVAILABLE
FOR A.S.M.E. MEETINGS
There’s a great demand for mechanical engineers at DuPont In fact, the ratio of mechanical to chemical engineers is just under 1:2. Whether your chosen field is research, develop* ment, plant engineering, production supervision or sales engineering, you’ll find a good future at DuPont
If you would like to learn in detail what mechanical engineers do in the chemical industry, arrange to see the DuPont film, Mechanical Engineering at DuPont. It is available at no cost for A.S.M.E. chapter meetings, fraternityhouse and dormitory showings. Write to Room 12421 Nemours Building, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Wilmington 98, Delaware.
SEND FOR
INFORMATION BOOKLET
Informational booklets about Du Pont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical and industrial engineers at DuPont; technical sales, research and development Just name the subject that interests you and send your name and school address to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Room 12421 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
10
The Scholastic
Gampeel Scute
‘AUTUMN REVIEW’ INSPECTED AT STUDENT CENTER TONIGHT
Palmer Orchestra to Provide Background for Military; Duke Game, Communion Breakfast Set for Week End
decorations committee was headed by Jerry Florent.
Refreshments for the dance are provided under the auspices of chairman Fred Mowle, and will consist of the usual punch and small snacks.
Bill Hawkins made the arrangements for the Communion Breakfast, Jim Keegan and committee prepared and sold tickets, and Joe Schaefer supervised publicity. Football tickets and accommodations were headed by Tofie Owens, business in general by John McNeil, and the band arrangements made by John Gehl.
“Autumn Review,” the 1958 Military Ball, will be held tonight in LaFortune Student Center. The Johnny Palmer Orchestra will background the dancing from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
The Anny queen is Miss Kitty Kearney, bom in Evanston, Ill., attending Barat College. Pat Toner is her escoit to the ball. Queen of the Sea is Maureen Doyle who lives in Chicago. She attends classes at Mundelein College and her date is Tom Trinley. Carmen Dres, the Air Force queen, will fly in from Dallas, Tex., where she is a secretary, and will accompany her fiance Neal Lamping.
Pat Toner’s home is in New York city. He is a chemical engineering student, Special Projects Officer of the Army ROTC, and he is on the tri-Mili-tary Council. Toner is the Army chairman.
Navy chairman Thomas Trinley is also a chem engineer, living in Chicago. Dallas, Tex., is the home of Neal Lamping, the Air Force chairman. Lamping is a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society and a Deputy Group Commander. He is a geology major.
The Johnny Palmer Orchestra, one of Chicago’s foremost show bands, was or-
MISS KITTY KEARNEY Queen of the Army
MISS CARMEN DRES
Queen of the Air Force
ganized at Northwestern University in 1947. After graduation, the band stuck together and has been playing at shows and dances since then. The voice of Pat Carlson will be featured in front of the 15 pieces of the band. One of the orchestra’s biggest years was 1954 when the band was chosen to play for The Star Night Show that played in Chicago, Detroit, and Cleveland, featuring many big-name personalities.
Lt. Col. Matthew H. Merdle, Air Force commanding officer; Col. Edwin Grenelle of the Army; and Captain Leonard T. Morris, Navy commanding officer, will all be present with their wives, in addition to 50 other officers and their wives from the various ROTC detachments. Four hundred couples are expected to attend the dance. ‘
Tickets to the Duke game have been sold for the dates of ROTC men, and 100 couples will attend a Communion Breakfast Sunday at the Morris Inn.
“Autumn Review” decorations will attempt to carry the theme of the American autumn, with yards of .bunting, golden eagles, and artificial oak trees. The centerpiece on the main table will also add to this patriotic'feeling. The
Dr. Constant Gives Lecture On Teens' Mental Problems
Dr. George A. Constant, MJ)., will lecture Wednesday at 8 pan. in Washington Hall 'on “Teenage Psychiatric Problems.” Dean , of the College of Science Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger also announced that , the lecture will be open to the public, xj .
A native of Victoria, Tex., Dr. Constant received his AB, BS, and MS degrees at the University of Nebraska. His MB and MD were conferred by Northwestern University Medical School. He has held positions at both these institutions, and has served as an instructor, visiting lecturer, and Assistant Professor at the University of Texas.
He is affiliated with the Texas Committee on Alcoholism, the Texas NeuroPsychiatric Association, and the Association for the Advancement of Psychotherapy. He is a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.	.
Dr. Constant -will talk on Thursday to pre-professionals in Nieuwland Spence Hall on the “Training of a Psychiatr rist.”
MISS MAURSN DOYLE Queen of the Novy
October 17, 1958
DOCTOR CROWLEY ADMINISTERS COLD VACCINE
Cold Inoculations Administered This Week; Schedule 4 Means of Personal Health Checks
In an attempt to determine the effectiveness of a cold vaccine, more than 2,600 students from all the colleges of the University were inoculated in the LaFortune Student Center last Monday evening.
Dr. Thomas G. Ward, developer of the vaccine, and Dr. Joseph B. Crowley, director of the University Health Service, administered the vaccine and will carry out the research program. Financial sponsor of the program is the Com- ' mon Cold Foundation,’ which manufactured the vaccine. ,
This summer, the parents of students in the University received letters from Dr. Crowley introducing the program,
DANFORTH APPLICATIONS
- Seniors and recent graduates interested in applying for Danforth graduate fellowships are to get in touch with Professor Frank O’Malley as soon as possible. The Danforth Foundation welcomes applicants from the fields of natural, biological, the social sciences, and humanities. Standards used in picking the fellows are academic ability, person-■ ality, integrity, character, interest in the Christian tradition, and a desire to teach in college.
and asking permission for their sons to take part.
Although the inoculations have been scheduled twice before, extensive safety tests required rescheduling.
About two-thirds of the students taking part will receive the actual vaccine, while the other third will receive only a sterile liquid. Neither the students nor the doctors will know who gets the vaccine and who gets the liquid, or placebo. The only record will be a coded lot number for each student, which will be decoded after the gathering of information about the number of colds has been full taken. This will eliminate any psychological difficulties.
Since the uninoculated students can act as a sort of norm, the comparison study may be made completely with information gathered on this campus. IBM machines will keep and tabulate the records and results.
Each student is reminded to act only as he has been accustomed to in the past, reporting to the infirmary in case of serious cold. Check will be made by four different methods.
The first will be by record of all the colds reported at the out-patient desk of the infirmary. Secondly, once a week a check will be made by the rectors in each hall.
Also, the Blue Circle will conduct monthly checks, quizzing each student as he comes to the Dining Hall line as to
New Programs Open In Commerce College
Two programs were opened this week by the College of Commerce. The first, a 15-week Foremanship Development Program, is open to all local companies and is aimed at improving shop supervision. Sessions are held in the Com- ’ merce Building one night a week from 7 to 9:40 p.m.
The three phases of this program, K human relations, basic economics, and industrial communications, are designed to inform and instruct the foreman so that he may obtain the maximum efficiency from his work and the work of those ' under him.
The program is under the supervision of Professor Vincent Raymond and all 4 discussion leaders and members of the faculty.
The second program, a Management Program, also opened this week. This 24-week program is devoted to assisting industrial organizations in the Michiana area with the problem of training men with executive potential. The phases of p this program are constructed for the purpose of ^preparing men for higher managerial'levels in business.
This program is under the direction of the Assistant Dean of the College of Commerce,-Thomas Murphy. Sessions will be held in the Commerce Building one night a week from 7 to 9:30 p.m. 4
the number and nature of colds he has had in the last month.
Lastly, at random intervals, the doctors will tour the halls, performing ‘ check-ups on all the students. If a cold is found on these checks, the student will not be required to go to the infirmary, although it may be recommended in very 5 serious cases.	.
Dr. Ward, research professor of virology at Lobund Institute, was appointed by the U.S. Public Health Service last ‘ year to test the effectiveness of a vaccine for the Asian flu. The present cold vaccine is a strain of several viruses, by 4 which the doctors hope to build up an immunity against several types of colds, all by means of one shot.
Although this will hardly wipe out the common cold, it is hoped that it will be 1 at least 60 to 70 per cent effective in cutting down the occurrence of the cold.
This Sunday the faculty, their fami- < lies, and members of the University staff - will be inoculated between 6 and 7 p.m. ■ Students, who had registered for the in, oculation, but were unable to make it < last Monday, may come from 7 to 8 p.m. - Many of the clerical and administrative details were handled by the Blue Cir- 1 cle under the chairmanship of Dan Cui-len. Approximately 5,700 IBM cards and I ; 3,500 post cards were processed.
The Monday night inoculation was 'covered by the ABC and NBC TV news service, as well as the three television stations in the area, and the South Bend Tribune.
12
The Scholastic
Student Senate Criticizes Fr. Bernard's Ban On Combos Performing at Pre-Game RalBes
The newly-elected hall senators underwent a baptism of fire when the Senate rolled back its much publicized “red carpet to the Administration Building” at its meeting Monday night. The Senate went back to its old ways of choosing up sides and firing at administrative rulings.
The case in point was the recent ruling by Father Bernard outlawing the “traditional” Hall bands that have been a part of the football, Saturday morning scene for the last six years. The outlawing grew out of an incident of un-gentlemanly conduct on the morning of the Indiana game. Previously the Senate had passed a resolution asking that the members of these groups keep their performances in good taste. The new resolution read in part: “The Senate did not, however, wish to see these demonstrations discontinued or essentially altered.”
Bill Graham, the maker of the motion, argued that these traditional rallies make a vital contribution to the pregame atmosphere and enthusiasm, and are an integral aspect of the Notre Dame “spirit.” Graham said further, “We feel that a vociferous and enthusiastic demonstration of school spirit can be conducted within the bounds of good taste.”
Father Bernard questioned Graham’s definition of “traditional.” Graham answered that traditional meant “an established part of campus activities.” He further pointed out that to him and to the rest of the students in attendance at the University these are traditional because of the fact that they existed
SENATE OFFICERS ATTENTIVE TO BAND DEBATE
before he came to Notre Dame.
Father Bernard stated that there was a ruling of the administration, long before these bands became a part of the campus scene that prohibited the use of loud-speakers and such things to draw attention to sandwich concessions and this is basically what the bands were used for.
The Senate passed the motion unanimously. The matter is (at press time) being reconsidered by Father Bernard.
Earlier the Senate, after rather prolonged discussion, had approved the budget for the fall semester. Bill Scheck-ler, the treasurer, hoping, no doubt, to set the tone of the proceedings, had urged the senators to question any and all of the expenses under the general heading of “Hall Presidents’ Council,” “Blue Circle,” and the like.
The only significant difference of opinion came during the discussion of the victory dance budget. Again the battle shaped up between the “deficit-financiers” and the opposition., led by Bruce Babbitt, Senate secretary.
With Scheckler pleading for extra funds that would allow the Senate to start next year in the black and Babbitt and Graham insisting that the losses of the second semester were the evil and it was here that the corrections should be made, the motion to lower the victory dance ducats to $1 was carried.
The committee on the Student Court submitted a report that urged the retention of this body. The report stated that the committee felt that the court had failed in the past because it had
not taken advantage of the areas where it could act most effectively. Among these were supervision of both campus club and student body elections.
Jack O’Brien had his motion that would have opened the new dining hall for one of the campus-wide dances tabled. The policy of the administration as of June stated that only one dance a year would be allowed in the new dining hall and that dance would be either the Junior Prom or the Senior Ball. However, if the Mardi Gras committee can get waivers from the junior and senior classes it may be possible to hold the Mardi Gras Ball in the new dining hall.
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
7:30 p.m.—Pep Rally in Fieldhouse.
9 p.m. to 1 a.m.—Military Ball.
SATURDAY:
4 p.m.—Coffee Hour in Student Center.
8 p.m.—Final Argument of moot court in Engineering Auditorium.
8:30 p.m.—Victory dance in Drill Hall, record dance in Student Center.
SUNDAY:
7 to 8 p.m.—Cold vaccine shots for those unable to make it Monday in rooms 1A and B of the Student Center.
2 p.m.—Club Hispanoamericano La Raza meets on the second floor of the Student Center followed by a soccer game with Moreau Seminary.
3 and 7:30 p.m.—“Red Shoes,” movie in Engineering Auditorium.
MONDAY:
3:30 to 5:30 p.m.—Knights of Columbus membership open in basement of Walsh Hall.
7:45 p.m.—Student Senate meeting in the Student Center Amphitheater.
8 p.m.—Chess Club meeting in Room IE of the Student Center.
TUESDAY:
7	p.m.—Student Government lecture in the Student Center amphitheater, by Ba-ronness Elisabeth von Guttenberg, titled “German Rehabilitation and Postwar Power.”
WEDNESDAY:
7	p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in Student Center Amphitheater.
8	p.m.—Dr. George Constant speaks on “Teenage Psychiatric Problems,” in Washington Hall.
THURSDAY:
7:30 p.m.—Labor Management Club meeting in rooms 2A and B of the Student Center.
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the “Calendar” should call the Scholastic office between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; and 7:30 to 9:30 pan. Tuesday. Written announcements can be addressed to Lyn Relph, 332. Morrissey; Ron Blubaugh, 309 Pang-bom; or slipped under the door of the SCHOLASTIC office in LaFortune Student Center. The deadline for announcements is 9 p.m. on the Monday before the issue in -which they are to appear.
October 17, 1958
13
Concert and
Lecture Series
by
Tom Scanlon
Chairman, Blue Circle Concert and Lecture Series Committee
Education is a broad notion that affects every aspect of human life. It can hardly be confined to a classroom or restricted to a college campus; but, generally speaking, it includes all human activities which train the mind to recognize truth and beauty wherever they are to be found. Because the University recognizes what can be learned from artistic expression, it schedules annually a Concert and Lecture Series which has proven consistently that this element in the educative process can be as enjoyable as it is enlightening and that real art is real entertainment.
We often hear of “art” in course lec-
GAYTYHOUBK
PIANIST THEODORE ULLMANN
x tures. And there we may even grow to 1 respect it. Art can never be fully appreciated, however, until it has been ob- 4 served in its complete dimensions. The schedule for the Concert and Lecture Series this year promises to provide seven occasions for the student to make direct contact with creativity and to be- ’ gin to understand the place that art holds in his life as an educated man. This year’s program proves that art can 4 be various. It ranges from the aesthetic appeal of the technical and interpretive Juilliard String Quartet to the folksy ballads and acrobatic dances of the Austrian Gay Tyroliers. It includes a “miniature Broadway show,” two nights of , the Elizabethan stage, a concert pianist and the greatest classical guitarist in the world. The personalities on the program have only one thing in common— they have found a way to express the poetic experience that obsesses them.
COME TO KITZBUHEL	<
The Series will begin on November 28 with a concert pianist when Theodore . 4 Ullmann will play a repeat performance for the Notre Dame audience which acclaimed him as the “high point of our gallery series” in 1955. An alumnus of . eight universities including Columbia, The Sorbonne, Conservatory of Paris and Juilliard School of Music, he has acquired degrees as a Bachelor of Sci- ♦ ence, Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy. His recitals have been acclaimed on every continent and in every state of the Union, and his artistry has < won for him a score of competitive awards including the McDowell Club Young Artists Contest and the Bamberger Competition. During the time when he wasn’t on tour, Mr. Ullmann has ] served on the faculty of Juilliard and Biarritz American University in France.
On December 5, the Washington Hall stage will become Kitzbuhel, a town high in the Austrian Tyrol. There the Gay Tyroliers will draw on the tradition of
14
The Scholastic
two thousand years and present what amounts to a full variety show, consist' ing of instrumental and vocal music, dramatic and acrobatic effects, and the dances that have made their part of the y world a mecca for travelers. In spirited rounds of song and dance, done in the costumes of their homeland, they present the authentic culture of their Al. pine region, handed down through gen-i erations from father to son.
The Tyroliers are completely unique for while theirs is highly developed tal-> ent, they are not “professional” in the strict sense of the word. One member of the company is a wood-carver and another a bank clerk. Also among them • is a tailor, a mountain guide and a ski instructor. Essentially they are from Ty-rolian villages who have known these songs and dances since childhood and > who perform them for the sheer joy of it. From the time they come on stage with their maypole until the final gesture of the slap dance, they provide >' substantial entertainment — a kind of simple entertainment that can be presented only by simple people doing what they love to do.
GIRLS IN DIRNDLS
There are forty numbers on the pro' gram including choral arrangements, zither solos, band selections and picturesque free - for - alls. The program is divided into three parts, representing the merrymaking of spring, summer and autumn. One of these, the stilt dance, is symbolic of the ancient belief in spirits, as boys mounted on stilts drive out winter, an old witch, to make way for spring, a young girl. In the middle ages, stilts were the only means of transportation during this time of year when the snow melted and the mountain
TWELFTH NIGHT
streams flooded the village. Some of the other numbers are connected with the peasant’s work — such as the woodcutter’s song and the cow-milking song.
This concert is a rare and unique opportunity to see these Austrian natives— the girls in dirndls, the men in hand-worked shirts, breeches and braces — translate their wealth of folk lore into brilliant yodelling, singing and dancing.
Neither Players’ Incorporated nor the plays they will present on January 5 and 6 need introductions to Notre Dame circles. Their reputation caused last year’s performances to be sold out before the group arrived on the campus, and the enthusiastic reception of the capacity audiences indicated that no one had been disappointed. Nor is their reputation merely local. This year they are celebrating their tenth Anniversary Season, and have thus become the longest running national classical repertory theater in the United States.
INTERNATIONAL TOURS
The members of the company are graduates of the famous Speech and Drama Department of The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., noted for the many Broadway hits which have originated in the University Theater. The Department is under the direction of the Reverend Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., one of the most prominent figures in the American theater today.
This energetic young company is “on the road” annually from early fall to early spring. Their troupe is made up of fifteen actors who double and triple in brass. They carry attractive sets and costumes especially designed and executed for each new Players’ production; They are practically the only touring
company in the field today that carries really complete productions.	’
The actual range of their travels is more international than national. The company has made six trips abroad under the auspices of the Department of Defense to entertain troops. Twice they played in the Far East during the Korean war; they have made four tours of the European Command, and one jaunt took them as far north as the Arctic Circle.	.
SOPHOCLES AND SHAKESPEARE
Friday night, January 5, the Notre Dame audience will see the Players’ first attempt at Greek; tragedy. For this effort they have chosen Sophocle’s most perfect work, Oedipus Rex. It was/in this play that Sophocles succeeded. • in uniting the element of pure tragic stature and nerve-tingling theatricality. The downfall of the great but ill-fat^d King of Thebes moves through Oedipus’ step by step tracking down of the mur- , derer of his predecessor king. Those of us who have felt the tragedy of Oedipus by reading the play can expect a greater understanding of it as a work of art when it is poi-trayed in its full dimensions by this group of professional artists.
It would be difficult to imagine a stand by the Players that did not include a Shakesperian play. This year they have chosen Twelfth Night, perennially one of his most popular comedies. Twelfth Night epitomizes all that is best in Elizabethan comedy — the silver poetry of a love story, the rowdy good ' humor of mistaken identity and romantic \ conspiracy. Last year ' The Taming of -4 the Shrew convinced all that' Shakespeare’s comedy can be more hilarious than-the comedy of our own age. All
October 17, 1958
15
ANDRES SEGOVIA
who were unable to obtain seats for last year’s show and who remain unconvinced will have another chance this year to see why Shakespeare is considered one of the greatest writers of comedy in the history of the English language.
If, some thirty years ago, a music lover anywhere in the world had been asked his opinion of the Spanish guitar as a musical instrument, he probably would have answered with a blank stare. The same question today would immediately result in mention of the name, Andres Segovia, who will highlight the Series this season on February 13. For it is Segovia’s unique artistry and "unflagging determination which have brought both himself and the Spanish guitar untold popularity throughout the world of music.
It is, in fact, just thirty years since the courtly and benign Andalusian guitarist, looking then like a poet in a Montmartre garret, played his first concerts in the United States and astounded the audiences that gathered to hear him with his Paganini-like virtuosity on a little-known instrument. The New York Herald-Tribune, reporting on Segovia’s first Town Hall recital said that he played “very likely the first guitar recital ever given in New York” and went on to describe the event as “one of the most extraordinary and engrossing recitals of music that has ever taken place in a New York concert hall.”
Today, just as courtly and benign, Segovia plays nearly one hundred concerts a year in Europe, South America and the United States. Auditoriums like London’s Wigmore Hall and New York’s Town Hall are not large enough to accommodate the devoted following he has built up, and the rapt attention of the “Segovia audience” has become legendary. As the New York World Telegram and Sun critic Louis Bian-colli wrote of the guitarist’s concert last March: “There is no silence like a Segovia silence. In that silence a cough is an explosion.”	.
Segovia has done more than win an audience. Today, all over the world thousands of young people are seriously studying the guitar, several major European conservatories have added the instrument to their curricula, and in New York,
Paris, London, Brussels, Tokyo and other cities, societies to encourage interest in it have sprung up.
The man who brought about such a renaissance was born in Linares and brought up in Granada. His childhood studies of the piano, violin and cello failed to kindle his enthusiasm. Finally, when he was not yet ten years old, he heard his country’s national instrument, the Spanish guitar, and he asked for lessons. Despite his parents’ objections — the guitar was an instrument for cafes, not for respectable people — Segovia persisted, obtained an instrument and taught himself.
It was no easy road the youngster had to follow. The guitar had been forgotten as a concert instrument. Segovia had to become a musicologist, teacher and student.
After he had begun to master the complexities of his instrument and learned to read the ancient method of guitar notation, Segovia launched forth on a voyage of discovery and exploration, searching into the literature of the lute and othei-instruments close to the guitar, transcribing, adapting and also converting contemporary composers to write for his instrument.
Since composers today know little about the mechanics of the guitar, Segovia had to work very closely with VillaLobos, Ibert, DeFalla, Roussel, Tansman, and the other distinguished men who have made music especially for him. As Segovia says, “They have had to compose through me.”
By a lifetime’s devotion, the Spanish musician has restored the guitar to its rightful place as a member of the family of stringed instruments. In so doing, he became recognized as one of the few truly unique artists of our time.
On February 27, one of the most unique attractions that the Series has ever scheduled will be featured in Washington Hall when Robei*t Goss and Louise Whetsei present their modem approach to a conceit, Make A Show.
Make A Show, done in colorful costumes with special staging and piano accompaniment, consists of vocal selections from Broadway shows, folk songs, operettas and operatic favorites. There are duets from Call Me Madam, Most Happy Fella, King and I, Showboat and many others. The dances
16
The Scholastic
are taken from My Fair Lady, Merry Widow and Down in the Valley. The songs and dances are tied together by action and conversation to give the concert the pace of a miniature Broadway production.
Robert Goss has appeared as leading man opposite Carol Channing in the Broadway run of Wonderful Town and with the Metropolitan Opera Association tour of Fledermaus throughout the United States and Canada. He has appeared on nationwide telecasts such as “Omnibus” and the NBC Opera. He has been soloist at Carnegie arid Town Hall and has made records for Columbia, Book of the Month Club, and New Records.
Louise Whetsei has been soloist on tour and on TV with the NBC Opera Company, the New York Philharmonic and the Little Orchestra Society. Born in Colorado and educated at Juilliard, Miss Whetsei received her first stage training with the ballet at the Paris Opera. Hei- first professional job came when she left Juilliard with a concert group which toured Italy, Africa, Greece, Egypt and Sicily. On her return she joined the opera school at the Berkshire Music Festival under Boris Goldovsky. It was while both were featured in the Broadway production of Kismet that she and Robert Goss decided to pool their talents and theatrical experience to Make A Show of a concert.
On March 6, the devotees of the Juilliard String Quartet will have their annual opportunity to hear this group of artists display the remarkable polish, suavity, and finesse which have merited for them international recognition. For those who have not yet heard these virtuosos, there will be the occasion to discover why they have been saluted as one of the finest chamber music groups in the world and have moved to the head of the class of American chamber music ensembles. *
The Juilliard String Quartet annually concertizes throughout the United States and Canada. It spends the months of July and August in Aspen, Colo., where it is on the faculty of the Aspen Music School and gives frequent performances at the Aspen Festival. In 1955, it made a sensationally successful tour of Europe; and just recently it played at the World’s Fair in Brussels.
Both Columbia Masterworks and RCA Victor Red Seal have recorded the Quartet’s playing. Their interpretations of the six quartets by Bela Bartok, the four quartets of Arnold Schoenberg and the works of Mozart, Haydn, Ravel and others are now available to the public.
This concert will certainly be an artistic achievement, but it will be more than that — it will be an opportunity to hear the widest variety of the great quartet literature. Programming is an art which the Juilliard Quartet has developed to the highest degree, due to the members’ deep awareness of significant musical values, to their prodigious repertoire, which reaches back through
JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET
the centuries to the early beginnings of string quartet writing, and to their complete survey of all quartet literature, stretching forward through the impressionist and contemporary masters to the talented young composers of today.
Within the group’s repertory of more than a hundred major works lie the masterpieces of the eighteenth and nineteenth Century — the Golden Age of quartet writing: the famous and lesser known quartets of Haydn: the celebrated Mozart masterpieces: the incomparable sixteen quartets of Beethoven, and those of the young but mature Schubert. But the Juilliard String Quartet’s greatest achievement has often been their freshness and spontaneity — they have brought to this timeless music of the past a searching insight which illumines it with meaning for today.
The performance by the Juilliard musicians will conclude this year’s series of worthwhile entertainment — a series that will be made available in its entirety to the Notre Dame students, faculty and staff next week. Season ticket prices are hardly more than what they would pay for an individual concert by any one of these artists in a big city. No seats will be reserved for the individual attractions, but the entire theater will be sold out to season ticket purchasers should they demand it. Those who buy them will be assuring themselves of choice seats for seven delightful and educational evenings, for seven
concerts which make up the most varied and fascinating schedule that the Concert and Lecture Series has presented in many years.
Season tickets
Concert and Lecture Series
PRESENTATIONS
THEODORE ULLMAN OEDIPUS REX TWELFTH NIGHT GAY TYROUERS JULUARD STRING QUARTET GOSS AND WHETSEL ANDRES SEGOVIA
TICKETS: WASHINGTON HALL 3:30 - 8:30; October 20 - 24
Season price for students, faculty and employees: Balcony, $4.50; main floor, $6.50. General public: Balcony, $6.50; main floor, $9. Individual performances: Balcony, 75 cents; main floor, $1.
October 17, 1958
17
/
X
*1
O father, father, gone from us, lost to us,

Sr
Do you look down on us. You now in Heaven Who shall now guide us, protect us, dfrect us?
T. S. Euot—Murder in the Cathedral
V*
'it
18
The Scholastic
ss
fiequiem
A violin, two canaries, Beethoven, a walk in the portico; these were the few personal luxuries Pope Pius XII allowed himself. They tell us more about the man who occupied St. Peter’s chair than the Latin encyclicals, the majestic plural, the untiring handshake and smile. To see what the man was we must penetrate the clouds of legends, formality, and diplomatic polish that surrounds a pope. Those who have seen the man or know him as did his housekeeper, Sister Pasqualina, can do this, but we must look for a reflection of the man in his public deeds and words.
For many years preceding his election, Eugenio Pacelli was a diplomat. On his accession, the role of mediator for the conflict known as World War II was added. Constantly aware of his role as father of all men, he had to maintain a strict neutrality, thus causing criticism from one party when he appealed to the other, and from both parties when he refused to take sides. He had to do what he considered best for the maintenance of peace and the rights of the individual. But the avalanche was not halted by appeals to right and reason.
After the war, he very much sympathized with the spirit that inspired the institution of the United Nations, but deprecated the attitude of compromise which allowed no mention of God in the charter and the privileges granted the large and prosperous nations. Later, when the menace of communism, as he had predicted, became more and more distinct, he condemned it unqualifiedly. Any Catholic giving support or approval to communism was to be excluded from the sacraments. He directed the prayers of all the world to the ideal of lasting peace but maintained that it was impossible while communism enslaved the bodies and souls of men. The divided world weighed heavily on the man whose very name spelled peace.
The Pope’s love of music was reflected in his encouraging the use of the Gregorian chant and congregational singing. His awareness of the needs of modern man was evident in the liturgical and regulational innovations during his
reign. The three-hour Eucharistic fast, afternoon Masses, sacraments administered in the vernacular, and revised Holy Week liturgy were designed to bring these mysteries closer to the people. Like the man that introduced them, these changes were stimulated by a consideration of the spiritual and the practical. Finally, the proclamation of the dogma of the Assumption of Mary’s body into heaven crowned the Holy Year of 1950.
These details, like the sculptured monuments that will surround his tomb, testify coldly and impersonally to the greatness of Pius XII. Of his personal life we only know that the times he treasured most were not the appearances before the throngs in St. Peter’s Square, nor audiences with the. world’s leaders, nor the assemblies of bishops and cardinals, but the moments of meditation and prayer. And we know he suffered the doubts, temptations, anxieties, that all just men suffer, only in a greater degree. For he was a teacher. His infallibility did not free him from error, but bound him to truth. He was a shepherd. Any wandering from the path of righteousness would confuse the millions who followed him. He was the Vicar of Christ, and as such received the homage of all the faithful, carried the keys, guided the Church temporal and spiritual, always obliged to remember that it was not himself whom they honored but the One that he represented.
When he died, bells tolled, flags dipped, Requiems were intoned, and a torrent of prayers rushed heavenward. (Notre Dame’s tribute centered around a Requiem High Mass on Wednesday morning.) He had been for nineteen years His Holiness, “Father of princes and kings, sovereign of the world, Vicar on earth of our Saviour Jesus Christ,” for fifty-nine years, a gentle “Father,” and for eighty-two years, a servant of God.	.
Whoever next puts on the fisherman’s ring will be accepting the role of spiritual guide . for a world poised on the edge of disaster, the duty to reveal the message given at Fatima, and a predecessor whose example it will be hard to equal, Eugenio Pacelli, Pope Pius XII.
October.
The Redness of Apple
by Tom Brandenburg
Part One
Julio carefully arranged the fruits on his cart. It was early morning and the market was all motions and smells. Every now and then, when he finished polishing the last apple of a row, he’d look up and yell to one of the other vendors, “Hey! How’s it today?” The other-vendor would smile and shake his head, and Julio would go back to polishing his fruit. It would be a good day for selling fruit because the sun would be warm, and the sky would be a nice blue, and all the mothers whom he joked with and sold fruit to would be happy.
When all the fruit was shining and neatly stacked, Julio waved to the other-vendors, picked up one end of his old red cart and started off down the street and out of the market.
He left the market behind him and the noises faded. He wished that the early morning hours would pass quickly. He liked to have people around him. He liked to talk and smile and laugh, and hear others talk and see others smile. He began to whistle an old song; a very old song. He had a long way to go before he would be able to stop and visit with anybody even for a little while. Every day he saw the same people. Every day they waited for him to come with his smiling face and his shining fruit. Sometimes the children would see him coming around the corner and they’d run to their houses yelling, “Julio’s coming. Julio’s here. Come Mama! It’s Julio.” Sometimes he thought about going to new places where he could meet new people and see some new smiles. But, he was happy the way he was. And why should he take a chance and disappoint his friends too? No, he felt better going to the same people every day. He might not sell a great deal of fruit, but then he never had sold very much. It wasn’t the fruit that made him happy. He even gave it away to the children when he played with them and chased them around his cart. But, he thought, that fruit was a small thing to give away for his happiness.
Sometime^, in the early hours of the day when he was hurrying his cart to his friends, Julio would think back a long, long time to when he was a little boy. He thought about that today. He thought of Tiow he used to help his father in his father’s little store. He
remembered his big laughing father and how he used to sit and talk to all the people that came into his store, sometimes for as much as an hour. His father was a happy man, and because he was that he was a respected man in his little village. He knew a great deal about a lot of things and with this knowledge he would talk and talk and talk. And because his village was a poor one, he very often gave away what his people needed. But he always got it back when it could be conveniently given. Julio remembered, because he liked to, all the people that called his father a fool and never seemed able to smile. They said his father was an ignorant man who let people take advantage of him, and who wasted his time gossiping. Julio once asked his father why it was that he let himself be ridiculed. “Julio,” his father said, “there is a secret I know that they want, and they won’t find it because their eyes are not in their hearts. Julio, my little son, you know that you must always be good. But how do you know that you are always being good? I shall tell you the secret, my little son. If you can always smile in your heart as well as in your face, then you are good and you can be sure of that.” Somehow, Julio had never forgot
ten what his father had told him. He even told it to some of his little friends ; who tried to steal apples from his cart , when they thought he wasn’t looking. And when they looked sufficiently sorry, he would give them an apple.	<
But, Julio could also be sad. It was in the early mornings too that he felt his sadness. It wasn’t really a sadness, but a kind of loneliness. He was eager ' to get to his friends. His eagerness made him all the more lonely. He had . no wife, and sometimes his friends would tease him. “Julio,” they would say, .• “why has a man that loves people so much never loved a woman?” He would never answer them. There was really no answer he knew to give them. “Julio, * if you never have any smiling babies, then who will bring your shining fruit to the sad, sad world when you are too far gone to bring it yourself?” To this J he always answered that he would never get too old for that. “Then, Julio, you must see that when you die you will t soon be forgotten. Out of sight, out of ■ mind, Julio!” These teasings always saddened him. He didn’t want his ' friends to forget him, but he could do nothing about it after he was dead, t Sometimes, after his friends would tease 1 him, he would seriously consider marriage. But whom could poor Julio mar- < ry? Who was there that would have him? True it was that he was a' happy man, but what good is a happy man to a woman that needs more than smiles? J Women always want so much from a man. There are few women that would let a man be happy the way Julio was. No! Forgetting or no forgetting, marriage was not a possibility for Julio. He had never missed having a family to '■ come home to. He had never envied any of his friends that did. They didn’t seem to smile half so much as Julio. No! He had too many people to keep happy. He * couldn’t spend all of his time on one ' person. He had a nice, big, happy world
20
The Scholastic
ail his own, with a hundred, a thousand i. other people. He liked a big world. A big happy world.
Julio put away his thoughts and began whistling again. He looked up at 1 * the sky and smiled at the thin, tom bread clouds that stretched across it. He wondered what it would be like to sell fruit in the country? He wouldn’t see nearly as many people as he did here in the city. But then, these were idle thoughts, because without people there would be no need for his fruit.
Part Two
Julio stopped his cart and took his little stool from underneath it. The children had seen him coming this morning and were dancing in front of their homes yelling in their singsong manner for theii- mothers to come buy his fruit. * Julio laughed and waved hello to the women as they poked their heads out of the windows to be sure that their children were not teasing them. He put on his big red apron and began polishing some apples again. They often got dusty during the long walk from the market, .. and he liked them to shine in the sun. ' T “Good morning,” one of the mothers said to him, “what do you think of the day today?”
Julio smiled a big smile, and sort of bowed a hello to the woman.
“It is a good day today. I think the sun is nicely warm. And here, here, look i at how nice the apples are. Even they are smiling. Of course, they only started to smile a few moments ago. But, perhaps, that doesn’t have anything to do with you after all.”
The woman pretended anger, “Julio, you can save your smooth talk for someone else. I’m a married woman.” Then she laughed and picked up some apples from the cart and began to turn them ► over in her hands.
Some more women were gathering now and Julio was very busy laughing and bowing. He teased them all a little. At first they all tried to make him think that they weren’t happy about his teasing; and then, they would laugh and he would smile and tease them some more, r “Hey, Julio, how do you keep old apples looking so nice? I think they’re wax. How could you be buying new ones? You never* sell enough to empty ' your cart.”
“I don’t want to sell them all. I like to have company on my trip home.”
“Hey, Julio! If you had some comr pany waiting for you at home you wouldn’t want any on the way. Eh?”
Julio was used to the teasing of the women, but never had they mentioned this before. He didn’t know how to- answer them either, so he just smiled mid went on rearranging the apples they . had been turning over in their hands. I “Julio, why don’t you say something to that, eh? You play with us because we are married and can do you no harm. Why don’t you try some of your nice talk on a nice friendly widow? We have one.you know. You see that house over there, Julio?”
Julio saw the house and laughed and
said, “Because I don’t want to sell all of my apples doesn’t mean that I don’t want to sell any of them. So that is why I compliment all of you ugly, nasty, married women. I will say nice things to a widow too, if she will only buy some apples.”
The women all laughed at him, and he felt a little uneasy.
“Hey, Julio! Maybe she needs some apples today. We will send some of the children to see if she does. Then we shall see how much of the talk you give out is just air.”
The children danced with glee at the anticipation of the joke their mothers seemed about to play on Julio. Some of them ran to the widow’s house and be-
gan their singsong dancing outside of her window.
Julio thought that now it was his turn to be angry.
“You see what you’re doing. You have the children making fun of the poor woman. You are bad women. You have no hearts. Your widow friend will be angi-y with you all.” He played even further at being angry and polished some apples with a fury that none of them had ever seen before.
“Look how he rubs the apples. He is angry because we have caught him .unexpectedly.”
“Hey, Julio! Are you afraid that the widow will need some apples. She is a very pretty widow. Maybe she won’t like your apples. Maybe she won’t like your sweet talk, Julio.”
Julio looked over towards the widow’s house. The children were skipping back across the street. Behind them was the widow. She was pretty and she was laughing at the children as they pranced and squeeled about her.
“Look Julio! Here she comes. Think up some nice sweet words now.”
Julio looked at the women who were wiping tears of laughter from their eyes with their aprons. They laughed harder than he had ever seen them laugh before. He could give only a half smile to their laughter today.
“Hello! You must be Julio. The children tell me that I must buy some of your- apples because they smile as nicely as you do.”
She was still smiling and Julio felt himself being embarrassed.
“Look at Julio! The apples not only smile as he does, they are the same color as he is.”
Julio was not himself anymore because he had become unsettled, but he would try to please the widow as he had these laughing women many other days.
“My color and theirs, my good lady, is due to your presence, I’m sure. All of my apples and I are honored to have you visit us.” He bowed a very, very low bow. Then he took some of his best apples and rubbed them in his red apron and handed them to her. At that all the women giggled loudly.
“Julio is indeed a prince. See how polite he is. He never bowed that low for us. The widow is indeed a lucky woman to have a prince such as Julio sell her apples.”
The widow did not turn the apples over in her hands, as the other women had. Instead, she held them and looked at them for only a moment. Then she gave them back to Julio and said, “I will take these and some more, if you will allow me. They are such fine apples. Where did you get them Julio?”
She was a kind woman as well as pretty and smiling.
“For* you, I shall make a gift of these apples and however many more you want. They are hardly a fitting gift for so fine a woman.” Julio felt very proud of his words. But, the women burst anew into laughter.
“Julio is the one who is lucky. To have such a fine tongue and such beautiful apples as well.”
“Julio has never said words like that to us. What can it be? Maybe Julio • won’t need his apples for company any more.”
Julio had not felt hurt like this for many years, and he had forgotten what to do with it. It was so odd to have his laughing women treat him this way. He gave a large sack of apples to the widow and smiled at her because she looked sad.
“Thank you,” she said, “I’m sure that these will be as fine as they look.”
The widow turned and went back to her house. The women giggled, but not as much as they had. This was the first time they could remember seeing Julio • without a smile.
“I must leave you, my ladies. There' are others that I must see today.”
Julio put his little stool back underneath his cart and started off down the street. He thought to himself that today might be a good day to try some new people after all.
October 17, 1958
21
Irish Pageantry
F


Four Horsemen, Cotillion, Strictly-marching Cadets, LIFE Lead Colorful March Onto Notre Dame Campus.
(top left) Long grey line in review.
(above) Fastworking cadet.
(right) Shaking down the thunder.
TAe SchoUftic '	-I.
a la Black Knights
by Tom Gannon
(top) LIFE at the Cotillion.
(right) Huddlers.
(left) Venerunt, viderunt, vicerunt,
It started Thursday afternoon. That’s when the first import for the Sophomore Cotillion appeared on campus. The young ladies kept coming in all day Friday. Each received a guided tour of the campus, but their escorts weren’t fooling anyone. They needed an excuse to show off the girls. Late that afternoon, forty gray-clad cadets stopped at the Notre Dame Stadium and donned
'I
( October 17, 195*
(top) Me Horry.
(middle) Tablecloths in the dining hall?
sweat-suits for pregame signal drills. They looked like they meant business.
At night a throng of students and interested visitors jammed the Field House to overflowing for what may have been the biggest pep rally this University has ever seen. Victory predictions filled the air while one speaker managed to confuse the mission of the Roman Catholic Church with that of the Notre Dame football team. A few hundred feet away the Tommy Dorsey orchestra provided the musical background as the Sophomores, in unaccustomed winter tuxedos, maneuvered on the dance floor.
The excitement was still there next morning — early next morning for the lads with 7:30 classes. The campus swarmed with people. They crowded the ’ bookstore, the cafeteria and the walks crossing the quadrangles. They inspected the residence halls, took snapshots of Fr. Sorin’s statue, and gawked at the Golden Dome. LIFE magazine was here, bulky leather camera bags identifying their photographers.
The senior class of the United States Military Academy showed up too — to look over Notre Dame, to parade in the stadium to cheer the Black Knights of . the Hudson on the gridiron, and to discover South Bend on Saturday night. While the sun popped in and out of the drifting grey afternoon clouds, the Cadets did stop the Irish, yet surprisingly the Golden Dome did not topple from its place atop the Main Building and plummet to the earth. And after dark the ugliest ballroom in the . world was the site of another Victory Dance.
Sunday morning, rail after, rail of communicants kept the priests in Sacred . Heart Church busy as a dedicated man . from Bengal pleaded for food and clothing and medicine, f The walks were crowded with strolling sightseers all through the day. Interhall. football, .
. with its own pep rallies and more than ; ... the usual number of spectators; started .
all oyer .again. Only after night had . fallen was the campus left to the stu-\ dentand the Army week end allowed to - pass into history. .	;
. •	■	■	"	"	"	-	- ' .	/	I '
(below) Those obnoxious Army mules (which, unfortunately, were not stolen despite va- ’ rious attempts by subversive campus groups).
TheScholastic
Social Events, Award Set by Upper Classes
Plans have been recently announced for some of the upcoming group activities for the upper three classes.
In the senior department, nominations were held last week for the annual Patriot of the Year election. The Patriot of the Year Award, highest award given by the University, is awarded at the midyear graduation exercises on February 22 to the man whom the senior class chooses as having done the most for America in the past year. The final election was to be held this past week.
The next major item on the senior calendar is the senior trip to the Pitt game at Pittsburgh. The seniors will leave by bus the afternoon of Friday, November 7, and will return the following Sunday night.
The juniors’ next class activity is the junior class Communion Breakfast to be held on October 25. Tickets will be on sale in all the junior halls until Sunday.
The sophomore council has done a great deal of work in reorganizing sophomore government this year. It has revamped the hall constitutions. The change expands the hall political structure. In addition to its four officers and one senator, each hall will have two floor representatives. From these eight representatives, the hall officers will select five commissioners to cover the academic, spiritual, social, publicity, and athletic functions.
The sophomore social committee has also planned several class dances for the coming semester. The council has also instituted a sophomore newspaper.
At the Movies
Baroness Delivers Talk On Germany's Progress
Baroness Elisabeth Von Guttenberg, who is greatly responsible for the social advancement in post-war Germany, will present a lecture on Germany today Tuesday evening in LaFortune Student Center Amphitheater. The lecture, open to the public, will begin at 7:30 p.m.
Her lecture will cover three topics: “Germany’s Present and Potential Power,” “German Rehabilitation and PostWar Power,” and “Building on Ashes.” In her speech she will discuss the fact that the real hope of Germany and Europe lies in a rededication to Christian principles.
Working with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, the Christian Democrats, and the Catholic Church, she had labored tirelessly to bring about Christian rehabilitation, along with the industrial progress of all Western Germany.
The Baroness’ husband was a German underground leader against Hitler. He and two of their sons were killed by the Hitler regime. Her cousin was the famous Count Von Stauffenberg, a member of the German General Staff who was executed for attempting to assasi-nate Hitler.
AVON	,
Rouge et Noir (Oct. 17-23): Two hours of something French. Rouge means red, noir means black. Gerard Philipe and Danielle Darrieux share top billing. A take-off of Stendahl’s controversial novel.	4
COLFAX
The schedule for the Colfax was not certain at the time the magazine went to press.	.<
GRANADA
A Streetcar Named Desire (Oct. 17,18): This is a re-run of that old , fashioned family favorite which headlined Marlon Brando, Vivien Liegh p and Torn Tee-shirt.
Onionhead (Oct. 19-26): A farcical account of Coast Guard capers mixed with enough dramatic paste and zero-hour heroics to establish Andy Griffith . as the screen’s favorite military odd ball. Sailor Andy shaves his head,	j
sprays the Army with wedding cake, and sinks a submarine. Felicia Farr	J
takes control of those unfunny scenes which make Andy Griffith look like a farm boy on his first date with a big city girl.	,
RIVER PARK
Marjorie Morningstar (Oct. 17-18): The tender tale of a mixed-up, middie class maiden and her search for security. She latches on to a professional party boy who latches on to no one. Hearts break, tears flow, wellsprings of advice burst out all over, and no one really comes up with anything worth thinking about. Maiden: Natalie Wood; gigolo: Gene Kelly.	4
King Creole (Oct. 19-22): Soldier Boy, in his last pre-draft effort, becomes a wayward teen who gets the notion that night clubs are money trees. He weaves his way into a singing spot in a Bourbon Street dive in New Orleans. He meets a “good” girl who has a father, and a “bad” girl who knows a few racketeers. He drools ten tunes for his following and proves again that you don’t have to act if you can try to sing. Carolyn Jones and Dolores Hart are the lucky girls who appear with Presley.
STATE
The Decks Ran Red (Begins Oct. 17): James Mason is driving a freighter one day while Dorothy Dandridge is downstairs tidying up the galley. Crewman Broderick Crawford hits upon an ever-so-clever scheme to drop Captain Jim over to the sharks, to claim damage to the ship and exercise salvage rights. But no one can steer the boat into Mason as he drifts around the Pacific in a wooden bucket. Annoyed by this development, “Broderick The Kid” opens fire on a few of his mates to prove he’s the man in charge. But j when Dotty comes up from the galley with trays of hot cinnamon buns and coffee, they all shake hands, gather around a bonfire on the deck and sing Boy Scout songs the rest of the night.
Also: Showdown on Boot Hill. During those years when civilization was ■ being etched into the wild West, men were men and a fast draw was the only law they knew. Seems that Charles Bronson bumped into Robert Hutton in the Blue Shamrock one afternoon and asked him if he had heard about the new law in town. Hutton said no, so Bronson took him out to the < cemetery and told him all about it.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Deep Six (Oct. 18): Alan Ladd, skipper of the Destroyer Poe, comes up against physical and psychological problems during World Wai' II. Brought up with a Quaker background which forbids killing, he alienates his crew by not firing on an unidentified plane. Then he and William Bendix ' toss an unexploded bomb over the side, and Ladd is once again everybody’s officer. Diane Foster’ is his one girl in the one port. Warner Color follows the Navy as it rescues the Air Force and shows how a machine gun and the sight of a wounded buddy can make a Ladd into a soldier. 6:20 and 8:45.
.	—Terry Shea
26
• The Scholastic
IRISH BEGIN REBOUND ATTEMPT TOMORROW
by Tim O'Reilly
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, losers to an outstanding Army eleven last Saturday, will meet Duke University tomorrow afternoon in the Notre Dame Stadium. Coach Bill Murray’s Blue Devils have been improving rapidly, winning two in a row aftei- losing their first two starts and will provide stiff opposition for the Irish tomorrow.
Last Saturday, Army’s Pete Dawkins and Bob Anderson, as well as the rest of the Black Knights, demonstrated slashing speed and strong line power as they defeated the Irish, 14-2, before 60,-
►
WRAY CARLTON
Star Duke halfback
564 spectators, a new Stadium record.
The victory was only Army’s eighth in 36 meetings since 1913. Four games have ended in ties.
The outcome was in doubt until the Irish lost the ball on downs late in the fourth quarter after they had driven to the Army 20-yard line. Coach Terry Brennan stated that “We did a good job but it just wasn’t good enough,” and that summed up the game entirely. J Three fumbles in the first half destroyed Irish scoring chances.
Nick Pietrosante carried the brunt of the Irish attack, carrying the ball 21 times for 87 yards. Norm Odyniec also played a key part in the Notre Dame offense after being switched to halfback only three days before the game. He gained 42 yards in seven carries before
leaving the game late in the fourth quarter with a shoulder- injury. He also received special mention for his play from Coach Brennan.
The Irish won the toss of the coin and elected to receive. They promptly drove to three first downs in a row before losing the ball on a fumble. Army marched all the way to the Irish 14 before Bob Williams intercepted Anderson’s pass on the four-yard line. Four plays later Bob Novogratz recovered his second straight Notre Dame fumble, this one on the Irish 22.
It took the Cadets just three plays to score, the TD coming on a pass from quarterback Joe Caldwell to end Bill Morrison. The try for the extra point was no good, and the Anny led 6-0 with two seconds left in the first period.
Notre Dame’s only score of the afternoon came in the third period when Monty Stickles tackled Caldwell, who was called for intentional grounding of the ball in the end zone, for a safety. The Irish took the free kick and launched a drive which went to the Army 19 before a holding penalty halted the march.
Late in the fourth quarter Notre Dame marched to the Cadets 20-yard line only to lose the ball on downs as the Army defense stiffened with 5:55 left in the game.
The Black Knights took over and, on
NORM ODYNIEC STOPS PETE DAWKINS
Senior halfback Norm Odyniec (18) meets Pete Dawkins (24) of Army and stops him after a gain of three yards. Dawkins was the top Cadet ground gainer for the day while Odyniec subbed excellently for the injured Jim Crotty at halfback for the Irish. Don Lawrence (72) reaches over to help Odyniec.
alternating runs by Dawkins and Anderson, drove to the Irish seven with 51 seconds left in the game. With only seven seconds left Dawkins took a pitch-out and fell into the end zone for the final TD. He then hit Anderson with a pass for the PAT and a final score of 14-2.
In tomorrow’s game against Duke, the Irish will be facing the same type offense as Army’s “lonesome end.” As the “lonesome end” Coach Murray has Dave Sime, one of the fastest men in the world. Sime was a track star for Duke for three seasons and holds the world records in the 100- and 220-yard dashes.
Just last week he joined the Duke eleven as an added threat in the Blue Devil offense. If Sime is able to break into the clear and take in a pass, there are few, if any, men in college football who will be able to catch him. He was used sparingly last Saturday against Baylor.
The Blue Devils got off to a poor-start this season, losing their first game to South Carolina 8-0 and their second to Virginia 15-12. However, they have come back to win their last two contests, 15-13 over Illinois and 12-7 over Baylor.
Part of this bad start may be explained by the fact that Murray lost (Continued on page 29)
October 17, 1958
27
What a head start for your career!
WIN YOUR SHARE OF *160,000.00
Nothing to buy to win. Just tell us why you think a Remington Electric Shaver is an ideal gift.
Here is your chance to win up to $50,000 in stocks and bonds... a share in America’s prosperous future. There are a total of 408 big prizes... $160,000 worth.
WIN! WIN! Prizes doubled—if you buy a Remington shaver between Oct. 13 and Nov. 26 and show on the entry blank the warranty number and dealer’s name and address.
STOCKS OR J (WITH BONDS WORTH i BONUS)
I
1st Prize $25,000 ■ $50,000
2nd Prize $15,000 >$30,000
3rd Prize $ 5,000 I $10,000 I
4-8th Prize $ 1,000 ■ $ 2,000
Next 400 $	100* ! $	200*
EASY! Read about Remington’s great exclusive advantages — then tell us in 25 words or less, why you think a Remington Electric Shaver is an ideal gift!
Get your entry blank today! At any Drug, Department, Jewelry, Appliance store, or Remington Service Center.
•In U. S. Savings Bonds at maturity value.
Contest is subject to federal, state and local regulations.
Buy a Remington — double your prize
Remington Rollectric®
•	Only shaver with Roller Combs
•	Largest live shaving area of any electric shaver
•	Man-sized head has 6 diamond-honed cutters
•	Shaves both heavy beard and Hidden Beard: whisker bases below ordinary shaving level
•	Gives fastest shave known
•	Works on AC or DC (110V)
•	America’s most popular shaver
RemingtonAuto-HomeRollectric®
•	Every feature of Remington Rollectric plus...
•	Dual-volt convenience! It goes where you go — homes, planes, boats, hotels, motels and trains
•	Works from a car’s lighter receptacle as well as any AC or DC wall socket
•	Available in 12 and 110 volt or 6 and 110 volt combinations. No switch or extra cord needed!
Remington Princess
•	Designed especially for women
•	Petite—yet has 4 times as much shaving area as any other ladies’ shaving implement
•	Only ladies’ beauty shaver with Guard Comb protection!
• No "wrong side” to make you switch sides for legs or underarms, as with "1-way” shavers • So safe it can’t chafe! You can use a deodorant immediately.
PRODUCTS OF	W—* FTUm***- Hibas mr, DIVISION OF SPERRY RAND CORPORATION, BRIDGEPORT, CONN.
28
The Scholastic
Notre Dame-Duke
(Continued from page 27) 13 of his first 22 men, seven of whom were first-stringers, from a team which compiled a 6-3-2 record last year, including a loss to Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl.
The Blue Devils run from the “Duke-T” which combines features of the split-T and the single wing. Key men in the Duke offense are halfbacks Wray Carlton and George Dutrow, ends Beit Lattimore and Doug Padgett, guard Mike McGee, and quarterback Bob Brodhead.
Carlton is a 6-3, 194-pound senior who has averaged 5.3 yards per carry in two years of varsity play. Last year he scored ten touchdowns and made 14 of 17 extra point attempts. In addition he is a fine blocker and outstanding on defense.
Dutrow, at 5-11 and 166 pounds, is small for his position but averaged five yards per carry last year. He was voted the outstanding player in last year’s Duke-Navy game.
McGee last year was one of the first sophomores to make Duke’s starting lineup in the last few years. He weighs in at 213 pounds and is equally good on offense and defense. Coach Murray says, “McGee is the finest lineman I’ve ever been associated with.”
Lattimore and Padgett at ends are both 6-4, 208-pound seniors. Lattimore is more of a threat on offense with outstanding pass catching ability. Padgett is tough on defense and an able pass receiver.
Brodhead is in his second season as top quarterback, and much of Duke’s hope this fall depends on this rugged signal caller. He is very deceptive as a runner and ball handler and throws well. Last year he completed 30 of 62 passes for 392 yards and four touchdowns. He is equally adept on defense and has intercepted eight passes in two years.
Tyler's Picks of the Week
Air Force over Stanford Tennessee over Alabama LSU over Kentucky Texas over Arkansas Army over Virginia Penn State over Boston U. Mississippi over Hardin-Simmons Colorado over Iowa State Notre Dame over Duke Oklahoma over Kansas North Carolina over Maryland Southern Methodist over Rice Texas Christian over Texas A & M Michigan State over Purdue Michigan over Northwestern Illinois over Minnesota Wisconsin over Iowa Navy over Tulane Pittsburgh over West Virginia
UPSET OF THE WEEK Georgia Tech over Auburn
TWO WEEKS AGO
16 right, two wrong, two ties, 89 per cent
TIME OUT
Those who filled the Stadium last Saturday afternoon were treated to quite a display of championship football by an Army team that had close to everything an outstanding outfit needs. The only thing they lack, and so far they have not needed one, is a power fullback on whom they can count for short yardage at crucial times.
The reason they don’t need such an outstanding fullback was obvious to the more than 60,000 fans. The reason simply is that they have as effective a team of halfbacks as a coach could hope for. Much has already been written about the speed, passing ability, and running prowess of Pete Dawkins and Bob Anderson, and they both certainly displayed all three attributes to the Notre Dame defense.
Dawkins rightly deserved the Grantland Rice trophy as the outstanding player in the 1958 Notre Dame-Army clash as he ran outside the Irish defense, threw the pass for the two points after the second Cadet touchdown, and was by far the game’s leading pass receiver with three catches for 58 yards.
But Anderson also gave the Irish trouble as he gained 75 yards in 23 carries. .Anderson also completed one pass for 25 yards. Quarterback Joe Caldwell passed for 75 yards on six completions and utilized the Army offensive strength beautifully.
QUICK-STRIKING BACKFIELD
These three men formed a deceptive and quick-striking backfield which kept the Irish off guard all afternoon. Caldwell mixed the inside and outside slashes of Dawkins and Anderson with as many passes as he needed to keep the Irish secondary from bunching up too close to the line. He called a beautiful game, and part of Army’s success must be attributed to Caldwell’s handling of the ball club.
No one, in appraising the game and the Army team, can omit consideration of the determined Army line which refused to wear down as some of the prognosticators thought they would. They played the Irish line even on defense and opened large holes for the Army backs on both their touchdown drives. From the over-all performance of the Cadet team, and especially the brilliance of Dawkins and Anderson, it is easy to see why Coach Terry Brennan acclaimed Army the top team in the country after their win over Notre Dame.
Against Army, the Irish played well on defense. But their blocking was obviously inferior to Army’s, they made more mental mistakes, and of course they lost three fumbles. However, Army was hampered by an assessment of 97 yards against them on penalties. Army just outplayed the Irish and were clearly the better team.
Now the Irish must pick themselves up and face the rest of the teams on the schedule. True, Army was a big game, but all the others are just as important. Notre Dame can still have a successful season if the team can profit from the mistakes made in the Army game starting tomorrow afternoon against Duke.
CONGRATULATIONS
The SCHOLASTIC is certainly not the first group to congratulate Bill Henry, but that does not mean he does not deserve it. Henry is the man behind the initiation of the Bluegrass Bowl football game which will match in Louisville, Ky., the two best teams in the country that want to play.
The date for the game is Dec. 13 and the place is a stadium which seats 32,000 people. Henry said that he has the funds to expand the stadium to seat from 80,000 to 100,000 if the reception to the idea is enthusiastic enough to warrant it. Henry set the date when he did, so that two outstanding teams could meet in a post-season game without having to drill over the Christmas holiday season. He is the first man to try this on a large scale, but I feel sure that his project will go over very successfully.
TYLER
Tyler did so well his first week of predicting football games that he refused to make any selections for last week’s issue. He felt very satisfied to rest on his 16-2-2 record for his first week’s effort.—T. T.	•
October 17, 1958
Harriers Oppose I.U. Away This Afternoon
Notre Dame’s cross-country team travels to Bloomington, Ind., this afternoon for a dual meet hosted by the University of Indiana.
The Irish harriers will he trying for their second straight dual meet victory of the year. They captured their first meet of the season last Friday afternoon by dealing Marquette a 20-40 defeat. This was a slight improvement over last year’s 19-36 score against the Warriors.
Last Friday’s meet took place on the four-mile Burke Memorial Golf Course layout. It was a brisk day of 50° with stiff winds ranging from 25 to 30 m.p.h. Sophomore Ron Gregory broke off to a quick lead and was seriously challenged only by returning letterman Dave Cotton. These two were neck-and-neck at the first, second, and third mile-markers. But with a quarter-mile left to run, Gregory moved out and finished an easy first. Cotton came next, followed by Kolsulka of Marquette and Irish junior Galen Cawley. Fifth place was captured
by Marquette, but sixth and seventh were taken by Captain Mike Haverty and sophomore Dennis Johnston of Notre Dame.
Coach Alex Wilson is generally satisfied with the results. He thinks that Ron Gregory did exceptionally well for his first college meet, especially considering the fact that the winds were quite heavy. As for the meet this afternoon, Coach Wilson recognizes the fact that the Hoosiers will field a top-notch squad, but he is optimistic about the Irish chances.
Dillon-Howard Elevens Top Sunday's Program
Interhall football swings into the second week of action on Sunday as Howard and Dillon collide in the feature game. Last Sunday Dillon edged Alumni 6-0, and Howard outlasted Morrissey 7-6. Sunday’s winner will take over undisputed first place.
Other games on Sunday include Cavanaugh vs. Keenan, Stanford vs. Off-Campus squad, Farley vs. Zahm, Breen-Phillips vs. St. Edward’s, Alumni vs. Lyons, Morrissey vs. Pangborn, and Sorin vs. Badin.
In the games of Oct. 12, Zahm scored a twice early in the game and then pro-cj tected its lead to dump Keenan 14-0. T Cavanaugh showed similar striking power and a good defense in blanking St. Edward’s 16-0.	J
Badin made a lone touchdown stand: I up for a 6-0 win over Pangborn. Stan--g ford and Farley fought to a scoreless tie. l.ll
Supervisor Bill Echard had this to say. & after the completion of last Sunday’s fl game: “Watch Dillon, they look like the ill
toughest team.” Incidentally, the Dillon squad is made up of most of the same players who won the championship last season under the Stanford banner.


Though the games for the most part were marred by mistakes, such as L fumbles, penalties, and missed assignments, the gridders made up for their T lack of finesse with their eagerness to play.	I
The low scores of the games show that, I while the offenses left something to be « desired, the defensive play was generally I good. Evidence of this is the fact that ; no less than six teams failed to score . while four others could score only one touchdown apiece. Only two squads were able to muster two touchdowns.	’
Attendance at Sunday’s games was good. Many of the week-end visitors | to the campus stopped for a minute to I watch the spirited play.	i
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME
DANCE CLASSES
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
Pietrosante, Williams Head Irish Statistics a
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE	CE 2-3339
The three-game statistics of the 1958 $ Notre Dame football team show that the W second- and third-stringers are giving fl the starting crew a fight for individual w honors.	fl
In points scored, senior signal-caller J? Bob Williams and Bill Mack, a sophomore, are tied with two touchdowns each. S i Monty Stickles has caught a touchdown fl' pass and has successfully booted two Jr PAT’s for a total of eight points. fl
Nick Pietrosante leads the team in fli rushing with 256 yards. He is averag- fl ing 4.9 yards per carry on 53 carries, Norm Odyniec follows him with 97 fl yards. Bill Mack holds the highest yard fl per carry average at 8.3 yards.	fl
Williams, who has done most of the « Irish passing, sets the pace in this de- fl partment with eleven completions in 31 fl attempts, for a total of 94 yards and fl one touchdown. He has had one inter- < cepted.	fl
Don White has thrown six and com- fl pleted two for 55 yards. George Izo fl. picked up 39 yards on his only comple- U tion, and Mike Dugan has completed one fl of two for 36 yards. White has had two fl of his passes grabbed off by the opposi- * tion as has Izo.
Al Ecuyer has a total of 24 tackles for the two games which puts him a little behind his pace of last year when he tackled 88 opponents for the season. Jim Schaaf has made twelve tackles, Jim Crotty has made eleven tackles from his defensive halfback slot, and Bob Scholtz has pulled down ten opposing runners.
The Scholastic
30
B
UNIVERSITY R.O.T.C. UNITS NAME THREE CADET COMMANDERS Student Officers Gleixner, Cornell, McTernan
!. ROTC Unit Commanding Officers Announced; : Cornell, Gleixner, McTernan Selected Heads
The cadet commanding officers of the three ROTC units are Richard Cornell, Army; Barret Gleixner, Navy; and George McTernan, Jr., Air Force.
? Cadet Col. Cornell is a sociology major from Boise, Idaho. His major activities 1 r have been concerned with the Army ROTC unit. He has participated on both the Army rifle team and the drill team. In the lattei* he served as a squad leader in his junior year.
Although the brigade has increased । to twelve companies, the standard four [ Battle Groups have been retained. Hugh £ Murphy commands the first Battle Group. He is in the College of Liberal Arts and is from New York City. Last j year he served as chairman of the Junior ' Prom.
I The second Battle Group is headed by I Dave Berg who is an English major from >	Aurora, Ill. Commanding the third
?	Group is John Martin from Hammond,
Ind. He is in Liberal Arts. The last । Battle Group is led by Tom Gill, who is ; also president of the Marketing club.
I “KNIGHTS” TO ACCEPT MEMBERS
Membership applications for the $ Knights of Columbus will be accepted from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. next Monday through Friday, in the council chambers, basement of Walsh Hall. Membership drive chairman, Don Veckerelli, or some of his committeemen will be available then to receive applications.
The cadet Naval Battalion Captain, Barrett Gleixner, from Chicago, is studying mechanical engineering. He has served as junior class president and chairman of the President’s Dinner for the junior class Parent-Son week end. In his first three years he was a member of the Navy drill team. This year he is the secretary-treasurer of the Blue Circle.
The Alpha-company commander is Robert Good, who is also a member of the band and from Wadsworth, Ohio. Frank Doherty commands Bravo-company. He is from Manhasset, N. Y. and is in the Marine corps. Heading Charliecompany is Mike Halpin who is from Rutland, Vt. Halpin is a vice-chairman of the Blue Circle and an English major. James Heavey, a Mechanical Engineer from Chicago, Ill., leads Delta-company.
Cadet Lt. Col. George McTernan, Jr. of the Air Force is a political science major. His home is in Morris, Ill. McTernan is a member of the Irish Air Society, the Academy of Political Science, and secretary-treasurer of Pi Sigma Alpha, an honorary political science fraternity.
The first squadron commander is Robert Robben of Carlyle, Ill. He is a sociology major and a member of the IAS. David Miller is a Mechanical Engineer from East Lansing, Mich., and a member of the IAS and ASME. He commands the second squadron. The third squadron is led by Ron Parker. He is from Los Angeles, Calif, and a member of the IAS.
'Red Shoes' Initiates Faculty Film Series
A series of classic films consisting of ten foreign and American masterpieces will open with the presentation of The Red Shoes Sunday at 7:30 and 9 pun. The English ballet film starring Moira Sherrer will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission for the show is 50c.
Faculty Film club sponsoring the seines announced that, except for the Sunday’s show, all admissions to the series will be on subscription basis. A full year subscription for the following nine films will be $4.50. For the four shows in the first semester, the price is $2.25. Subscription, which is open to the public, may be purchased at the showing of “The Red Shoes,” or by addressing Daniel Miller, Eng. Dept.
The Red Shoes will be followed by: Rosselini’s Paisan, one of the best of post-war Italian films; Camille, an American version of La Traviata, starring Greta Garbo; L’Atalante, by Jean Vigo, who was hailed as a promising French director before his early death; and Mark Donskoi’s The Childhood of Maxim Gorky, a famous Russian film.
Continuing the series in the next semester are: The Diary of a Country Priest, Robert Bresson’s version of Ber-manos’ novel; Rashomon, the prize-winning film of Japan; Pudovkin’s Mother and The Passion of Joan of Arc, two great classics of the silent era of Russia and France; and John Ford’s The Grapes of Wrath.
The Film club is in urgent need for helpers to sell subscriptions and to conduct the shows. All helpers will receive a gift subscription to the series. Anyone who is interested are requested to contact Daniel Miller.
Founder's Day Program Introduced at St. Mary's
St. Mary’s College instituted its first Founder’s Day exercises last Monday. The theme was “Life at St. Mary’s in the 1890’s.”
The day began with a high Mass celebrated by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., at which the entire student body and faculty attended.
There was a panel discussion of the history and tradition of St. Mary’s headed by Mary Witta. Speakers included Mary Beth Schaeffer who discussed Father Moreau; Margo Heineman who chose Mother Compassion as her topic; and Geraldine Dunn who spoke on Mother Angela.
The junior class, under the chairmanship of Judy Mellon, set up pictures in the foyer of the auditorium which were related to the subject. Mary Sceales chaired a dinner by the sophomores at which a program headed by Nancy O’Toole was presented.
October 17, 1958
31
THE COVER
This week’s cover, in line with our general cover policy to depict the most important item of each particular issue, is an artist’s conception of Segovia, around whom^' the Concert and Lecture Series has-been planned. The artist is Joe McDonnell, a fine arts major, whose training in sculpture shows up in the clean, hard lines of his drawing.
Dear Editor,
The University Administration is to he commended for finally devising a method which effectively enforces the coat and tie rule in the dining halls. The spirit of the students, however, as last week’s Scholastic so aptly states, does not yet seem to be fully behind the idea.
It appears to me that the priests who eat with the students should be cognizant of this fact and do something positive to promote student acceptance. I feel that if the priests would discard their cassocks for the evening meal and wear, instead, their suit coats and Roman collars they would be doing themselves and the students a service by setting an appropriate example. Their slight inconvenience in changing to a suit before dinner would show their active support of the program as well as adding to the desired dinner-hour atmosphere.
I think it would be worthwhile for the Administration to give this proposal some serious consideration.
Sincerely,
Wiley Rice, 424 Walsh Hall
Editor's Note-. The cassock and cape are formal attire for all Holy Cross priests.
Green Derby Sales To Begin Wednesday
The Marketing club announced that its annual Green Hat Sale is planned for the Purdue week end. Sales will begin on Wednesday evening, October 22, and continue until Friday, October 24. The hat, a green felt derby, is priced at $.50.
The greater part of the profits realized by the sale of the hats is turned over to the Bengal Missions. The remainder is used by the club to further the education of those interested in marketing.
A green felt derby especially designed to withstand the punishment received at a ball game has been ordered by the Marketing club in an effort to answer the wishes of those who want a real hat.
Quarterlies Set Dates For November 14, 15
Plans for the first issue of the Juggler and the Tech Review, Notre Dame’s literary and _engineering quarterlies,, are now well advanced,-according to the editors of the publications.
Joe Ryan, editor of the Juggler, expects that the first issue will be out about Nov. 14. This year’s Juggler will have the same general format as in previous years and will feature a new and brighter cover design by Joe McDonnell, a graduate art student. Canvassing of the freshmen halls for subscriptions will start soon. The price will be $1.25 per year or $ .35 per issue. Anyone who is not contacted and would like to receive the Juggler should see Bob Gouldschmidt at 224 Alumni.
Interested students are invited by the Juggler to submit contributions for publication. According to the Juggler staff, students too often feel that their work is not good enough for publication. This is the wrong attitude. Any type of original literature is welcome. The copy deadline for the articles for the first issue is Tuesday. Mail or deliver all contributions to Joe Ryan, 4 Fisher.
Roger O’Neill, editor of the Tech Review, assisted by Bill McAdam and Denny Ready, is planning on a November 15 publication date for his first issue. Business Manager Joe Higgins has conducted a very vigorous advertising campaign which achieved excellent results.
Prizes of $35 and $15 will be offered for the two best articles contributed by a student this year. For the first time the Tech Review is actively soliciting subscriptions from students outside the College of Engineering.
Any non-engineering student wishing to subscribe to the magazine should contact Jack Lane at 158 Alumni.
yCS Group Discusses Duty of Student Toward Education
The overall program, “The Student’s Responsibility Towards Their Own Education,” was discussed by the officers and group leaders of the Young Christian Students movement.
During the discussion the program was broken down into four areas. The first dealt with the student’s need to learn to excel in whatever field he enters. A second area involved the student taking an active interest in current affairs.
The third group is involved with the student’s social awareness of people about him. A fourth area concerns itself with the development of a Christian mentality in every decision and action of the lay apostle.
There is also a program which aims at establishing within the freshman, solid ideas on the purposes and goal of his education. Jerry Murphy, chairman of the freshman program, plans to begin by studying the hall community life.
I j
Rickover, Nixon Named
As Patriotism Nominees t
Each year the senior class selects an | individual of “high merit and national £ significance” as the “Patriot of the ’ I Year.” The choice of the recipient for the Patriotism Award, which is given during the Washington Day Exercises, is left entirely up to the members of - the Senior Class. It is the highest award which can be granted by the students of the University.	V
Nominations for the award were held last week end. Ballot boxes were placed in O’Shaughnessy Hall, the Engineering Building, the Commerce Building and Nieuwland Science Hall. The faculty took part in the nominations but they will not vote for the final choice. The { results will be known some time next 1 week.	I
The leading nominees for this year’s I award are Admiral Rickover, Robert I Murphy, Vice-president Nixon, Wernher 1 von Braun and Earl Warren.	I
The balloting was on a preferential basis. Each senior received a sheet with the names of the candidates and a short summary of what each has done in the past year.
Greater Benefits Offered
By Students' Insurance ,
For the fifth straight year, the Stu- ‘ dent Insurance will again be offering many increased benefits. Student representative for this year’s service is Lee Lagessie, whose office is in the basement of the La Fortune Student Center.
No change in the premium, which remains at $21 for the school year, will accompany the new coverage. The ten per cent increase in benefits, brings 4 present coverage to 60 per cent, and includes hospitalization and higher nursing benefits.
The policy, the only one of its kind at the University, covers accident and sickness insurance, and is voluntary and optional to the students. The only requirement is that an individual be enrolled * as a student.
Normal coverage on the campus is supplemented by coverage while traveling and participating in any intramural -sports. In case of accident, there is a $1,000 unallocated benefit to the policy holder.
YALE PROFESSOR TO SPEAK
Professor Maynard Mack of the Yale English Department will lecture Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of next week at 4:30 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. The professor’s subjects will be "Hamlet,” "King Lear,” "Anthony and Cleopatra,” and "The Tempest.” The lectures are ' intended for English graduate and undergraduate students and staff members.
32
The Scholastic
Determine New Senators in Early Elections; Also Select New Officers of Upperclass Hals
The results of the hall representative elections are recorded and the senators have attended one Student Senate meeting. Alumni’s senator for this year is Murray Turner, pre-med student from Mobile, Ala. Tom Plofchan, senator from Walsh Hall, is a music major. His home is in Detroit. Sorin Hall is represented by Dick Trant, aero eng. senior living in Tucson, Ariz. Clinton, la., is the home of George McAndrews, senator from Fisher Hall, and engineering-prelaw student.
Senator Jack O’Brien of Pangborn is an English major from Cincinnati. Commerce student Mike Ehlerman will represent Howard Hall. Mike takes trips home to Glenview, Ill. Jim. Naughton, Painesville, O., communications arts major, represents Dillon Hall. Zahm Hall sends Bob Frates from Portland, Me., an economics major.
Mike Nash of Chicago, represents Morrissey Hall. Mike is in the General Program. Jim Twohy, AB transfer student from Oregon State College, won the senatorial election in Cavanaugh Hall. John Clark of Baltimore and the AB school comes to the Senate from Lyons Hall. Off-campus representative is John Kromkowski, and Badin is represented by Eon Sowers.
Other officers are as follows:
CAVANAUGH —Pres., Lund; Veep, Green; Sec., White; Treas., Pillar.
LYONS—Pres., Meihaus; Veep, Os-
f	-------
■
j	News Briefs
4	Rev. Francis K. Numazawa, S.V.P., Ph.D.,
| president of Nanzan University in Nagoya, 1 Japan gave a series of talks here on Oct. “	6 and 7. He spoke on “Japanese Philosophy
I and Western Thought” and “Ethnological I and Mythological Concepts of East and J West.”
Father Numazawa is internationally known I as an authority on ethnology and is the > author of four books and numerous articles j on religion and ethnology. His talks were ?' sponsored by the departments of history, | religion, philosophy, and sociology.
’ John Roedel, a senior in chemical engi-neering, was elected chairman of the Joint Engineering Council at the first meeting of the year held recently. Vice chairman is John Maloney, secretary, Jim Donovan, and the treasurer is Jack Lane.
The JEC is composed of students in all
VACCINE ADMINISTERED SUNDAY
Students who were supposed to be innoculated with the cold vaccine last Monday night, but were unable to make it, are asked to report to Rooms 1A and IB of the LaFortune Student Center Sunday. The time will be between 7 and 8 p.m.
OUR MISTAKE
The SCHOLASTIC erroneously reported last week that the Blue Circle juniors were to determine those to receive Who’s Who awards. The committee determining the winners of these awards is to be made up of juniors representing various organizations throughout the campus.
The nomination committee announces that nominations close tonight at 12 p.m. Any last minute nominations must be sent to room 5 in the basement of Pangborn Hall.
borne; Sec., Reick; Treas., Hanley.
MORRISSEY — Pres., Daly; Veep, Weber; Sec., Donnellan; Treas., Boot.
ZAHM—Pres., Murphy; Veep, Sampson; Sec., Miller; Treas., Bartlett.
BADIN—Pres., Juliani; Veep, Harrington; Treas., Broecker.
DILLON—Pres., Delaney; Veep, Murphy; Sec., Orsi; Treas., Medland.
HOWARD—Pres., McKee.
PANGBORN — Pres., Huber; Veep, Lombardi; Treas., Masters.
FISHER — Pres., Solomito; Veep, Kline.
SORIN—Pres., Smith; Veep, Reardon.
WALSH — Pres., Beard; Veep, Reu-land; Sec., Frechette; Treas., Beck.
branches of engineering. It’s main function is to coordinate the activities of the various engineering societies and clubs. It also helps to present the Engineering Open House in the spring.
DOME editor John Thurin has had his staff moving since before classes began on the 1959 DOME. The innovations this year include a different point of view for the hall pictures, and a modern cover, sympathetic to contemporary opinions of style.
Success is due to pre-photograph planning and co-ordination. Design co-ordinator Mort Keilty and Art Editor Jerry Florent are responsible for the improved cover, and they have received acclamation for the change.
Ford Fund Scholarship winners at Notre Dame now number 16 with the admission of two freshmen winners.
The new students, John H. Bridges of Dearborn, Mich., and James P. Gannon of Philadelphia, Pa., are sons of Ford Motor Company employees. The winners are two out of 69 four-year scholarship holders granted recently through an educational fund set up by the firm.
The fund was established in 1951 and at least two award winners have enrolled at Notre Dame each year since then. The Notre Dame group is the largest total at any school outside of Michigan.
AB Advisers Schedule Lectures and Smokers
The first meeting of the AB Advisory Board was held last Friday. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the board reviewing the structure and possible revisions of the present AB curriculum.
A freshman lecture series and studentfaculty get-together were planned at the board’s second meeting on Sunday. The lecture series is a number of discussions between outstanding freshmen and professors on particular fields for freshmen. The get-together is an informal smoker for students in each of the AB departments and their instructors.
The board also set up a committee to study a revision of the traditional importance of the sophomore comprehensive examinations. In former years the results of the exams have been entered upon the student records separately from the regular academic progress data.
KGDL ANSWER
HEE0 BEES mns nnBB BEES ECOE BBEBEHHBS 3E0 nsn □SEBB0EBH BQEEB
□E0E DEEBS
-
HBE1B ^HEESE wlHEEBB arasm asnn □DE EB0DSHEQE □bb □nesra ana BBE EBBBB BBP
Switch -from Hots ■to Snow Fresh KGDL
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	JALS. Bldg.
^ILWTURBOW
\0UT0MUTMST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMiNH)
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-5777
I October 17, 1958
33
Back Pa/fC
by DICK SAMPSON
modern man and utopia
There are no modem Utopias. Many of the great social ideas of every epoch —those of Plato and St. Augustine in ancient and medieval times, those of St. Thomas More in the Renaissance and of Rousseau in the Enlightenment, those of Butler, Bellamy, George, and Marx in the last century — have been presented in the form of a Utopia — in the form of a promise of a perfect society, of a kind of heaven on earth. But there are no modern Utopias — and the reason for this gives us an insight both as to the nature of Utopia, and of modem society.	-
Now what are the assumptions of Utopia? It assumes, first of all, a basically optimistic view of man. Man is ■“essentially good.” Yet the world is far from perfect. Therefore, the causes of the evil in the world must be in the society that man has made.. Man’s basically good nature could thus be freed by the perfection of society — this conclusion is the motivation for constructing a Utopian system.
Throughout this essay I am using the terms modern age and modem man to represent (using Jung’s phrase) that portion of mankind “fully conscious of the present” without contending that this represents all modem men or even the average modem man.
The main reason why our age is barren of Utopias is that ours is an age without faith. And indeed our age is the only faithless age in modem history. There have been ages of perverted faith — all of history since the enlightenment has been a history of man’s changing from one false god to another. But our present age has come to realize the falsity of all these gods — and has no god of its own to worship. The Enlightenment deified Reason — and received the French Revolution in return. The nineteenth Century idolized Liberty and individualism— and saw it result in the philistinism and social injustice of industrial England and America. It then worshiped equality and collectivism — and our own age sees their reduetto ad ab-
34
surdum is Soviet Russia. Man then called science the way to truth and justice— and was rewarded with positivism and the atomic bomb. But each of these gods was worshipped — and each of them was heralded by some type of Utopian scheme. Now it seems that we have run out of gods.
Look at recent works of social criticism. There are. many of them — Ries-man’s “The Lonely Crowd,” Whyte’s “The Organization Man,” Packard’s “The Hidden Persuaders,” Kirk’s “The Conservative Mind” — to name just a few of the most popular of them. These books do not offer a program for the amelioration of society. They are mainly analytical and merely point out the evils of oui- society. Any program that these books propose is directed to the individual within society.
All of this shows that the modern mind has little faith in the efficacy of tinkering at the structure of society for producing “heaven on earth.” This does not mean that it does not believe the converse of this statement. In the two books of the twentieth Century that come closest to Utopian form — 1984 and Brave New World — George Orwell and Aldous Huxley — contend that, by tinkering at society, man can indeed make a hell upon earth. All this serves to illustrate the loss of the optimistic view of man that is necessary for a Utopian view.
As we have mentioned before, the view that man is essentially good, or that he is able to subjugate himself to the good, is one of the assumptions of Utopia. The first of these propositions is attributed to Rousseau and is the basis of most of the Utopian systems that were invented since his time. Edward Bellamy expressed this assumption succinctly: “Human nature, in its essential qualities, is good not bad. . .If the conditions of life that might have perverted angels . . . were removed it would spring back to its normal uprightness.”
No one seriously believes this assumption today. The failure of Liberalism
and of Socialism and the havoc of two 7 world wars have shaken faith in this belief. And the findings of psychoanaly- , sis have administered the coup-de-grace.
The other question is whether — regardless of his nature — man is able to subject himself to the good. That he could, after proper self-discipline, was < Plato’s view, and has been the view of most Christian Utopians. Modem man . has not fully solved this question foi* S himself yet. But the growing belief in | modem philosophy is that man is not j able to know this ideal of the good, or that no such ideal exists, and values are simply relative to the age or to the individual.
It is for this reason, then, that there are no modem Utopian systems. For a Utopia demands faith, and there is no faith in the modem world.
Just as the nineteenth Century was materialistic and atheistic, the twentieth ■ Century is positivistic and agnostic. This a represents a change from a perverted a faith to no faith at all. Which of these 1 evils is lesser, and which one is more likely to help the spread of Truth? fl These are difficult, perhaps impossible z I questions to answer. But I would haz- ‘ I ard that the morass of doubt and lack I of values that is the modem mind can 3 eventually be of more service to Truth | than vain and shallow faith in the things fl of the world. For the fruit of doubt is i agony while that of vain faith is complacency. Since there can be no psychological satisfaction in doubt, the modem world may again turn to faith. And the analytic temper of modem man will prevent him from accepting the vain and worldly faith that he turned to during the Enlightenment.
Modem man is unlikely again to accept stones for bread and a viper for fish. The modem age may well continue to accept nothing — and consequently perish in starvation and anguish. But it may turn back to true faith — and be able to construct again the only true Utopia — the City of God.
The Scholastic
How to take the chill out of a fall night by Arrow...
This man has discovered the secret of being perfectly dressed even at a sport rally: he insists on the Arrow label. He is wearing a strikingly handsome Arrow sweater vest of a wondrously soft and warm 100% lambswool. $7.95.
His perfectly fitting University Foulard shirt also bears the proud Arrow label. $5.00 up.
■ Cluett, Peabody S' Co., Inc.
-zl/l/lOlF*-
first in fashion
Come see our new selection of
Arrow Shirts and Sweaters
What more fitting companion for an Arrow shirt than an Arrow sweater! Let us help' you choose the shirt and sweater combination that’s just right for you.
We have a wide, new selection—sure to make you feel every bit as good as you’ll look. Shirts $5.00 up. Sweaters, $7.95 up.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
THEY SAID IT COULDN^T BS JONE
PUFF BY PUFF...
TODAYS UM GIVES YOU
DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!

Change to and get ’em both. Yes, today’s If M gives you the unbeatable combination of less tars and more taste! BM’s taste is so full and rich... it’s a rare mixture of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. And you get If M’s patented* filtering process — assuring you of less tars in the smoke, puff by puff, than ever before.
"Couldn’t be done, couldn’t be done.” Hardly anyone dreamed that 50,000,000 people would be able to enjoy a “Western”... in their own homes... on the same evening! But that’s how many Americans watch “GUNSMOKE” . . . TV’s most popular program, every Saturday on CBS-TV.


i
ANANDA BLAKE AND Mi ABBESS TAKE AN (Mi BSEAK ON OUNSNOKE SET, HOLLYWOOD
C1958 Liggett a Myms Tobacco Co.

♦ Only IfM has U.S. patent number
on the side of the pack. This patent
(No. 2,805,671) covers UM’s ex
elusive process that electrostati
cally adds extra filtering fibers.
Light into that! J ^li
01 [odern flavor
modern EE