4
Yi/E-^si^tykSy^g^nV^^
Vol. XXXI.	NO.TRE DAME, INDIANA., January 22, ^8.98.	]^p,. 16,
My Grandsire’s Pipe..
/(g) H me! it is yellow and stained and brown jTL -With years of use and years of time;
It watched my grandsire totter down The sunny street of a little town, In his elder days, And travelled with him in his prime, O’er many ways.
Tobacco rich from the Orient
Bartered from heathens hath filled its bowl;
Which in its later years indolent
Still doth boast of the faintest scent
, Of the fragrant weed;
Anil hangs on the wall there sound and whole Without a need.
Just for the sake of long ago, Its hallowed rest I’ll desecrate;—
’Tis sacrilege to use it so
With modern smoking stuff, I know, Of doubtful kind;
But better I can’t afford of late, So it won’t mind.
Ah, how mellow the first long draw! -, A little strong, perhaps, but good.
If my fine grandsire only saw
How little I hold his pipe in awe, .
, He’d frown perhaps,—
Great guns, how strong! Was all this stood By those old. chaps?	, .
I think I’ll put it back again .	-
Above the mantel, on the wall.
It might have changed a-bit since then, .
Though it was mild and mellow when .
Its days were young.
But now its days of use are all; ,
.	- Its song is. sung.	’	-	.
' . ; .	■ L. D. ,
Mont^lexnbe^t.
WILLIAM p. breen, A- -V- 8°- •
AW
N American politics the bpttep . . elements of man do .not fructify;
in French politics more hopeful ' results are not found today; but
I have’ found a character in the French politics of. this century moulded of finest . clay. We are unaccustomed -in public life in this marvel
ous : country of ours to the spectacle of a ■ politician alive with high purpose, striving.and struggling unceasingly; for moral principle,—at times the leader of a host, at times alone and without followers. Montalembert, leading a pretentious party in the Chamber of Peers of France, or the sole representative of-a cause in the National Assembly, was ever faithful to conscience and loyal to right. With „us “.poli- _ tician” has become a disparaging term; but the man of public affairs who is the .spokesman = of the many, either in the Chamber to£ acon-stitutional monarchy or the Assembly.of. a republic, should of right be a man above men, a superior among his .fellows, aleader of those • for whom he stands, in intelligence, character, ability, and all The worthier parts of man. Commercial dishonesty and political corruption have been so often accentuated by .the : lack of that honor, purpose, and . manliness ? which should be found in bold ■,relief.. in the representative of a people, that the’.term “ politician” has fallen from its first and highest meaning to a plane of mediccrity and shallow- , ness in moral as well as :mental vigor, that renders its application seldom creditable.-. InC A
* Lecture delivered .before the University stu'dents, December 6, 1897. Notre Dame, Ind. . ' v? J 7
£7 ■
27S	NOTRE DAME
this our splendid republic, where nature has been prodigal and the people God-enriched, weare anxious to find the elements that should compose the politician in the worthier and higher sense. As worthy of emulation in public life from every point of view, I present the life and labors of Montalembert. .
The unsteadiness of affairs in France at the opening of the present century drove the grandfather of our subject, Count Jean de Montalembert, to London, where his son took service under the British army in India; this son, Marc Rene de Montalembert, married in .London the daughter of James Forbes, a lettered Englishman, who had been arrested in France in 1803, but released by Napoleon through the intercession of his French literary associates. James Forbes was an author of reputation, and when his daughter married Marc Rene de Montalembert, the newly wed couple resided in his house in Stanmore near Harrow, where his first grandchild, Charles Forbes Montalembert, was born on May 15, 1810. At a tender age the baby Charles was put in the keeping and under the tutelage of his grandfather, owing to the fact that the military career of his father necessitated removal from place to place. In 1814, Marc Rene de Montalembert returned to France with the restored Bourbons, and in 1816, forsaking the fortunes of war for diplomacy, was appointed Minister Plenipotentiary by Louis XVIII. to Stuttgart
James Forbes had written a work, “ Oriental Memoirs,” which made him a figure in the literary world, and the remaining object of his life was to instill in the mind of his youthful grandson the love of letters which permeated his own, and with this end in view he thus dedicated his work:
“To Charles Forbes Montalembert.
“The manuscript letters intended for these volumes (‘Oriental Memoirs,’ in the form of letters to the writer’s family) being now prepared for the press, and one hundred drawings printed for the engravers, I wish to render one set of the book more complete by adding as many copies as possible from my original sketches in the voluminous folios from which the others were taken; and if my life and faculties are preserved, I purpose to add near. a thousand more from the subjects which formed the amusement of my juvenile hours in foreign climes and distant shores. This would, appear to many a singular undertaking in their sixty-second year; but I have been accustomed to application, and when I have a beloved object iwview, the employment becomes delightful. Without such an object I never should have begun these additional drawings; and where, my dear child, could I have found one so endeared to me.by every tender tie as yourself? The sweetness of your disposition'
SCHOLASTIC.	I
at a very early age presents a happy prospect to your || parents; and I trust by the divine blessing the opening g blossom will gradually expand into a beautiful flower, and in due time produce abundant fruit. Impressed with |s, these ideas, on , the commencement of this new year, to fe you, my beloved child, ! dedicate these enlarged volumes, £ leaving their continuance and completion to Him 'in	g!
whose hands my time is.’ That you, my dear boy, may	g.
be brought up in the faith and favour and love of that greatest and best of Beings, is the ardent prayer of your affectionate parent,	James Forbes.
"Brighthelmstone, 1st January, 1811.”	g
Charles was then in his first year; on his S third birthday the fond grandfather painted the child’s portrait, inscribing upon it the ® motto—“ Ut ameris, amabilis esto,” adding be- g low the following beautiful verses:
“Accept, sweet child, this pledge of love—	f
Accept the heartfelt strain, the fervent prayer—	j|
-
The prayer that He who guides the steps of youth	|
Through all the puzzled and perplexing round	g
Of life’s meandering path, upon thy head	g
May shower down every blessing, every joy	g
Which health, which virtue, and which fame can give; S That noble fame by arduous contest gained	|
O’er passion’s sway,—oh! may thy little heart	|
Beat high with young ambition’s honest praise.	|
Ne’er mayst thou hear a tender tale of woe	|
And feel thy heart at rest; ne’er mayst thou che< k | In thy swollen eye the tear of sympathy,	|
The milk of human kindness, nor reject	I
The humble voice-of honest poverty.”	I
James Forbes looked constantly to the, I mental and moral‘development of his gandson, I and the work of his education was His especial I care. The old man, in the boy’s tenth year,	I
started to visit the child’s parents in Paris, but	I
before the end of the journey the angel of death | touched James Forbes; and his grandson, with I the servant who accompanied them, watched | the ebbing pulse of that first and best of .	|
friends through the dreadful night that ushered | the noble, manly, bright, pure spirit of James | Forbes into the presence of his Maker. James | Forbes laid broad and deep in the heart of I Montalembert the basic principles of frankness, courage, independence and honor, and stimulated his youthful mind to a love for literature which afterwards made Montalem-bert the most cultured and distinguished Catholic in France.
Charles de Montalembert then passed into a different life under different skies. Though . missing the gentle, lettered, ceaseless, doting care of his grandfather, he paid some heed to his studies, and entered college in his seventeenth year. With a very worthy collegemate, the ] same year a compact was made “to serve their country to the utmost extent of their power,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and to give their lives, and talents to the cause of God and freedom.” In his commonplace b.o.ok, the same year, appears this entry: “ God aqd liberty, these are the two principal motive-pq\Yers of my existence. To reconcile these two perfections shall be the aim of my life.” Thus in irreligious prance, among fellowcitizens of infidel proclivities, did he frame the resplve o,f Christianizing government and eler yating it to. his lofty, theocratic ideal. His love o.f freedom was exemplified when n friend, who, had in 1827 declined the appointment of Censor o,f the Press, received from Montalembert this letter:
“ Madarne de Davidoff has just told me, rqy dear Rio., pJE the generosity you have shown in this last business. Allo.w me as a friend to congratulate you, and as a Frenchman to express my gratitude.
“In place of certain pecuniary advantages which $0 degrading a situation might have brought you, you have acquired the esteem of the nation, which, unfortunately, is of the opposite party from the government.' I never could have believed that you had accepted it, notwithstanding the formidable authority of the Moniteur. Such an acceptance would have been a real perversion.
- “Ch. de Montalembert.”
In 1828, he won the prize for a speech in French, contested for by the students at the eight colleges of Paris. His father having been appointed ambassador to Sweden, he journeyed thither in 1828, and reluctantly tasted the distractions of diplomatic life in Stockholm. The thoughtful, studious habit of his grandfather abided with him, and he fain turned from the diversions of social life to the study of Swedish manners, customs and institutions to ascertain where liberty had there her abode.
The innate fire of the rhetorician turned him towards that store-house of oratory—the deathless speeches of Burke and Grattan2—and it is not strange that his love of liberty and his love for elegance of expression should have turned his eyes towards Daniel O’Connell, then in the zenith of his career, battling for human right, armed only with a wealth of diction,a profundity of argument, and a majesty of eloquence all his own, which have garlanded the fame and name of the great Irish Liberator with immortality. Daniel O’Connell was Montalembert’s ideal. “God and Liberty,” Montalembert’s motto, were the twin principles of adamant upon which O’Connell would build the superstructure of Ireland’s polity, and thereby elevate the land of Erin above the waves of tyranny. He determined to go to Ireland to see O’Connell, and put into execution a pet purpose' prompted by his-perusal of the speeches of Grattan, to wit: writing a
history of Ireland. O’Connell was then the: central figure in Ireland, and Montalembert, fired with admiration-for the great leader of the Irish people, hastened tq Ireland’s then most favored shrine, Derrynane in Kerry, \vhere dwelt O’Connell.	.	•	■
Montalembert found a crowd surrounding thp Liberator’s home waiting tp submit their dis7 putes to the great lawyer for arbitration. When O’Connell appeared he received Montalembert kindly, and did what he thought would pleasp the courtly young Frenchman, by ushering his youthful visitor into his drawing-room tp meet a merry band p.f lively Irish gjrls. Montalem-bert had expected tp have a private audience with O’Connell for the discussipn of his favorite theories, and having come in a travelling suit, with no change of dress, was chagrined to take his place in the drawing-room, then at table where twenty-five sat down to dinner, ^nd then to join in the dance which followed; anti although he slept in the hospitable home, he was debarred, by the engagements of the leader of the Irish bar, the opportunity of the chat which he had promised himself with O’Connell. All the conditions abashed him, disappointed him, and he scarcely esteemed his pilgrimage a success. Disenchanted, he started on his return journey,’and it was not surprising that he who was destined to become a great French orator should have chosen a route which brought him by Blarney Castle. In Blarney Chapel, a hedge chapel, he heard Mass, observing the hill crowdedwith worshipers unable to gain admittance, but all enthusiastic in their. . devotions. Their fervor made an impression on the young man, himself a strong, earnest churchman, which he delightfully amplified in a publication. A distinguished prelate, in some way, recently drew the inference that Mohta-lembert, previous to his visit to Blarney Chapel, like the young men of his day in France, was an infidel, and by this scene was brought back to the active practice of his faith; but I heed hot dwell on this, as the archiepiscopal gentleman has been disabused of this false impression by an article in the Times-Herald of Chicago, from the gifted pen of Hon. William J. Onahan, who , could not read any aspersion upon the memory . of Montalembert’s unchanging and invariable adherence to the Roman Catholic Church in ' practice as well as in tenet. Matiirer years, however, brought back to Montalembert his whole-hearted admiration for O’Connell; and when the . great champion of Ireland, broken in health and broken in spirit, started dh his

WT/te AM MX SCA/0AAS77C.
fateful journey to Rome in the year 1847, Montalembert, as the representative of the French Chamber, thus addressed him:
“Your glory is not onlj' Irish, it is Catholic. Whenever Catholics begin anew to produce civic virtues and devote themselves to the conquest of their civic rights, it is your work. Wherever religion tends to emancipate itself from the thralldom in which several generations of sophists and logicians have placed it, to you, after God, is religion indebted. May •that thought fortify you, revive you in your infirmities, and console you in the applications with which your patriotic heart is now overwhelmed. The wishes of Catholic France will accompany you in your pilgrimage to Rome. The day of your meeting with Pius IX.—when the greatest and most illustrious Christian of our age shall kneel at the feet of a Pontiff who recalls to our recollection the most brilliant period of Church history—a truly momentous . event in the history of our time will take place. If, in that instant of extreme emotion, your heart should entertain a thought not absorbed by Ireland or Rome, remember us; the homage of the affection, respect and devotion of the Catholics of France for the Chief of the Church would not be better placed than on the life of the Catholic Liberator of Ireland.”
While in Ireland, Montalembert could not .resist the temptation to stop at Maynooth, the famous seat of learning whence have come, . not alone to Ireland but to the broad world, the splendid mentality, the theological pro-■ • fundity, and the ornate eloquence that gem
• many of the Irish clergy the world over. It was opportune that, after leaving O’Connell a trifle disappointed, he should meet a bishop
. peerless in the Irish hierarchy, who had, like O’Connell, adopted “God and Liberty” for diis motto, but who, with keener perception, divined the powers and was affected by the ■enthusiasm of the brilliant young Frenchman. At- the college/table at Maynooth the tears
. rolled down the cheeks of Montalembert as . his health was proposed to be drunk by the . distinguished “J. K. Li,” the Bishop of Kil-. dare and Leighlin, the illustrious Dr. Doyle. . After , two months spent in Ireland, which he . declared were the happiest two. months of his life, .Montalembert returned to Paris more than half determined to be the champion of
. Catholic faith in France.
. At this time Lamennais, “the most illustrious . ecclesiastic of his time,” had the headship of the Catholic movement, and Lacordaire, an
I advocate, who had abandoned the law and । entered the priesthood, an ardent believer in | liberty, was beginning to be attracted by the | learning and logic of Lamennais; to both,	f
O’Connell, striving in Ireland for religious	I
enfranchisement, was inspiration. They desired | all restrictions affecting the members or clergy of the Church, whether in educational or eccle- s siastical lines, to be removed; any governmental | policy short of such removal was to be com- | bated. E Avenir appeared in October, 1830,	I
under the editorial charge of Lamennais and	I
Lacordaire; and the Society for the Defence of | Religious Liberty was instituted, with Lamen- | nais as its President and Montalembert as one | of its directors. The society’s purposes were | thus enumerated:	I
1st: To obtain redress for every act against | the liberty of ecclesiastical ministrations by j actions before the Chambers.	i
2d: To sustain every educational establishment, primary, secondary and superior, against all arbitrary attempts to infringe freedom of j instruction.
3d: To maintain the right of all Frenchmen meeting for prayer, for study, or for any other legitimate aim equally advantageous to religion, to the poor, and to civilization.
The motto of E Avenir was “ God and Freedom.” Montalembert soon became associated in this paper with the brilliant Lacordarie and the profound Lamennais, the greatest religious writer of his generation in France. Montalen -bert’s first article in EAvenir was on Poland; the wrongs of that unhappy land smote his tender heart consecrated to the genius of liberty. Lacordaire, in two trenchant articles . in 1831, resented the interference of Louis Philippe in the appointment of French bishops, and Lamennias and Lacordaire were indicted; i the latter defended himself in a masterly \ speech, and both were acquitted. ' The result ■ emboldened the editors of E Avenir; they had ; attacked the policy which constrained a parish priest to inter an infidel in consecrated ground. Education in France was exclusively dominated by the University of Paris—one of the means ; of .centralization devised and inaugurated by . Napoleon;, private schools, not licensed by that institution, were absolutely forbidden. The examination for the. baccalaureate degree was . the .key to all public occupations in France, without which admission to the bar, the army, . the ministry and state; places was denied, and '■ this examination could be had only, at one of the- schools licensed by the University. The

NOTRE. DAME
r	University of Paris, monopolizing all educa-
I	tional facilities, was infidel, distinctively infidel,
I	in method, manner and policy, wherefore,
|	Montalembert exclaimed:
?	“ Is there,” he says, “ a single establishment
]	of the University where a Christian child can
j	live in the exercise of faith? Does not a con-
tagious doubt, a cold and tenacious impiety, ;	reign over all these young souls whom she
■	pretends to instruct? Are they not too often
j	either polluted, or petrified, or frozen? Is not
i	the most' flagrant, the most monstrous, the
,	most unnatural immorality inscribed in the
i	records of every college, and in the rccollcc-
, tions of every child who has passed as much as eight days there?”
(to be continued.)
A Surprising' Discovery.
E. PH REM.
Leon Dore was usually among the first to put in an appearance at club meetings, but this evening he was late. The members wondered. An election was to be held, and it was hinted that Leon might be the next-president; not . that he expected such an honor, for he was unpretentious and cared little for distinctions of any kind. His one strong passion was hunting, and none could ride better than he. People * said that it was his long tramps through the woods in quest of game that made him so lithe and strong. Leon was a great favorite, and his tardiness tonight had an exceptionally depress-• ing. effect on the club. There was very little said, and every time the door opened each one cast a look of inquiry in that direction. At length he arrived, and laying aside his hat and overcoat said: “ Pardon me, gentlemen, I am late; but there was a reason for it. As I passed the widow Geary’s, I heard a scuffling noise inside, and it at once struck me that something was wrong. On entering, I saw the old lady struggling with a cowardly tramp.” Amid exclamations of surprise he continued: “They say she has • a large sum of money concealed somewhere in the house. That, no doubt, was the cause of the assault. Well, to be brief, I sent for help, and now he is behind the bars.”
There was a burst of applause. A dozen fellows rose and shook his hand, saying:
“Well done,(old man I” Leon interrupted them “We have serious business before us tonight,
SCHOLASTIC.	281
why not prepare for it by a little diversion. I have not played billiards for an age,” he went on, selecting a cue and applying chalk to the tip. “Who will play?” There was a moment of hesitancy, and all eyes were then turned on a tall, dark-visaged man sitting in the farthest corner. This was Paul Gillan, the president, who, had it not been for the halo of popularity that lately encircled Leon, would have felt confident of occupying “the chair” in the Hammerville Club for many years to come. • It is not easy to stand idly by and see the sunshine of your life shut out by a rival. Paul was an expert billiard player, and here was his chance to humble Leon.
“ Mr. Dore,” he said, rising and snatching up a cue, “since your appeal has provoked no other response, I will answer it. I presume you are no more remarkable at billiards than you are at other things.”
“There is a little unnecessary frankness in that remark,” said Leon, looking straight at Gillan. ‘“The other things’ I don’t comprehend. You would be better understood if your statements were more specific.”
“Oh! I guess you know what I mean,” sneered the other.
There was defiance in their eyes, but the game commenced; and during its progress, the members, who watched the playing closely, noticed that Paul showed indications of nervousness. His eyes were restless and his face wore a scowl not pleasant to look upon. Leon was calm, and luck seemed to smile upon him. His “ runs ” were numerous and averaged eighteen. He frequently played for “general results” and came out with flying colors. He won the game, and the applause that followed betokened the approval of the onlookers. Paul was enraged. He ascended the rostrum and called the meeting to order, and his opening speech was anything but favorable to his reelection. Candidates were nominated, votes cast and counted. Leon succeeded to the presidency. A few short speeches were delivered, and then the meeting adjourned.	•
Paul walked into the dimly-lighted street, his mind full of dark thoughts. He hurriedly reviewed the events of the evening, but found - : nothing of a pleasant nature on* which - to dwell. But this was not all: his memory tore open old sores and laid all their bitterness, before him. The companion of his childhood, Laura Holmes, who clung to him in joy and in sorrow, and who seemed a part of his very life, was now the promised bride of Leon Dore. It
282	NOTRE DAME
was too much to bear. Muttering a curse, he ’ hastened along the street in the direction of his home; but had not proceeded far when he stopped abruptly and stood as if in thought; then he turned, looked -furtively around, and walked quickly down a narrow street.
Dore was. happy that night. He felt that he loved all mankind, and would gladly fold them all in one embrace, if such a thing were only possib^. He was .certainly a favorite among the young people of Hammerville; there could not be any doubt of that now. “ Poor Paul,” he mused, “ I did not mean to be unkind, but, somehow, fate was against him.”
Suddenly it occurred to him that he had promised to pass the night at a friend’s house. It was only a mile outside the village, and although the night Was dark there would be no difficulty in reaching it. He had often been there, and so was quite familiar, with the road. He started off at a brisk pace, and had left the twinkling lights in the distance, when he was startled by a noise in a clump of trees a little ahead.. He slackened his speed and walked more cautiously. The moon had not yet risen, and one could hardly see an arm’s length through the darkness. He stopped, and as he did so he felt himself caught by the shoulder and hurled to the ground. The fall stunned him for a moment, but his great strength asserted itself, and. the next instant he was on his feet.- His life hung in the balance, and so every muscle was called into instant action. He had .a vague recollection of using a knife which he had always carried; and then the deadly grasp was relaxed. He fled from the spot, and shuddered as he felt the fresh, warm blood on his hand.	r
Leon was so panic-stricken;.that he forgot that he had merely acted on the defensive, and that before the law he would be accounted an innocent man. Tossing the knife into the bushes close by, he quit the road and cut through the fields to a neighboring wood where he washed 'his face, and hands; but the stains on his clothes, he knew, must remain.- All thought of going; to his friend’s house, was abandoned. He would avail himself of the darkness untih morning, and then.nothing could be easier than to .crawl to, some secluded spot—say a cave, or something; of that sort; he had often read of such places. There he could remain until— until—night, he supposed; but there was nothing pleasant ; in the , thought. The police would,no. doubt, make great. efforts to capture him, and. there j was not . much hope of Ipng
SCHOLASTIC	J
evading their grasp. He lay down in the R tall grass under a sheltering elm and tried to	g
snatch some sleep, but his brain whirled; he	B
was a murderer. But who was his victim?	g
Perhaps it was not too late to go back and	g
see. It was the dead of night, and hence,	®
very unlikely that anybody would be abroadx
He stood erect and breathed in the cold	g
night air. A gentle breeze was stirring the	II
lazy leaves around him; and, as it eddied	g
past, it brought to his fevered brow a hint of	|i
rain. Soon the wind quickened, and its rushing	g
noise awoke	the	whole wood	from its quiet	g
sleep. Suddenly	the flood-gates of heaven	g
opened, and	the	unrelenting	rain drenched	S
him through	and	through. A	single thought	B
possessed him: he must see the victim whose g blood was on his hands. He moved stealthily B along, gliding from shadow to shadow; and at g length he came to the edge of the wood, and 1 hastening forward Leon neared the high-way f and approached the scene of the unfortunate E conflict. Then the moon appeared for a moment I and lighted Leon’s surroundings. A dark object | lay in the grass a few yards away. A moment	|
later he was bending over it, and in that instant	|
all the anguish of his soul took flight; for there, | stretched at full length upon the ground before | him, was a huge brown bear!
The next morning the mail-carrier handed him a letter which ran as follows:	-
i‘ Mr. Leon Dore:-
“This town is not large enough for both of us. One must leave, and it is better you should stay. I wished to see you before going, but could not find you.
“Paul Gillan.”
Leon paused a moment as he read these words. Then he said: “Poor Gillan! I’d soon become very fond of a fellow like him. Fate’s a funny thing, isn’t it?”
The motive from which education springs is belief in the goodness of life and the consequent desire for richer, freer and higher life. It is the point of union of all man’s various and manifold activity; for whether he seeks to nourish and preserve his life, or to prolong and perpetuate it in his descendents, or to enrich and widen it in dohiestic arid civil society, or to grow more conscious of it through science and art, or to strike its,roots into the eternal , world through faith and love, or in whatever -other way he mayyexert himself; the end and the aim of his aspiring and. striving is educa-tidnalj-^-is the unfolding , and'uplifting of his being.—Spalding.	- : <1 \y	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.


Varsity Verse.
NELLIE GRAY.
Y/ghAISED her dimpled face to mine— 1Y Half in earnest, half in play—
In her simple, childlike way, Asked in gravest tones of seven, ■ ‘Would I be her love alway?’
And I answered “Yes.”
Years had flown Since the day we two were seven, Girl and boy had taller grown; Nell and I were all alone
In the wood as long ago;
When I asked her for my own, Nellie answered “Yes.”
F. j. F, C.
Transformation, before.	.
He writes, May 17.
Dear Dolly, the days are dreary here, I would not, if I could, be gay;
Poor Nellie tries to make time fly,
But the hours are slow in passing by, And always will be slow, I fear, While you’re away.
She. May 18.
Dear Hal, I wish I were with you;
I can’t stay here another day.
Poor Auntie tries to please me so, I feel it’s wrong for me to go;
But go I must; I’m always blue When I’m away.
AFTER.
He. April 10, 12 p. m.
Dear Wife, all’s well;
Quite ~This
Will
My best
busy here afternoon:	•
write you soon, to Nell,
Goodbye, my dear..
She. May 1^. Dear Hal, I’ll stay, A week more here.
Please send some money;
I’ll write you, honey, Some other day.
Goodnight, my dear.
A. L. M.
SURPRISED.
.1 passed a girl, upon the street, . She smiled on me;
' A prettier girl you could not meet, ' She smiled on me.
..With golden hair-and dear, blue eyes,. ..
That.smiled on me; ...	.
1 As if I took them by surprise,— They smiled on me.
J. F. F.
A Sketch, of Aaron. Burr.
W. C. MCDONOUGH, ’99. . .
.This’talented, but misguided man was ,born,- . in Newark, New Jersey, February 6, 1757. His . < father, Aaron Burr, a man of culture and deep learning, was second President of the College of New Jersey. His mother, Esther Edwards, was celebrated for her beauty, superior intellect-and piety. Made an orphan in infancy, Burr was placed under the charge of his uncle; the • Reverend Timothy Edwards, of Elizabethtown;;
New Jersey. A handsome fortune was left to him by his father, and his education was conducted with great care. His tutor was Tapping. Reeve, who afterwards married Burr’s sister.,
Burr was a mischievous boy and was hard; . to control. When very young he had pleasing; manners, which in manhood became fascinat- . ing. Possessed of a brilliant intellect, with little effort he was prepared to enter Princeton ., at the age of eleven. On account of his extreme . youth, however, he was not admitted until two years later. In September, 1772, he graduated from Princeton with honors. Many stories are related of wild dissipation during his college -. life. At the time of his graduation the college was stirred by religious excitement, and in the . controversies Burr took a deep interest. After some independent investigation, he rejected the Gospel and became an infidel. “ He resolved to be a perfect man of the world, according to the code of Chesterfield.”
In 1774 he began the study of;law.in Litchfield, Connecticut, with Tapping. Reeve. At ; the outbreak of the Revolution he joined the. Continental army in Boston.- He had a passion for military life, and was well qualified to win. distinction as a soldier. Against the entreaties of his friends he accompanied.Benedict Arnold . on his expedition to Quebec. In this disas- . trous enterprise he served with great credit, and returned with the.rank of major. The next; . two years he was with Washington and Putnam, . and later on was given command of a division in Orange County, New York. . .	; .
. In the spring of 1770, he resigned his com-1 T; mission on account of'ill-health, as he alleged. ■ It is probable; however, that this action iwas •prompted by. despair of promotion. Shortly/ • after retiring from the army .he resumed the study of law/and was admitted, to the bar. ; He Tr opened an office in Albany, and soon acquired a .large practice.. .	. .
'.A

284	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In 1782 he married Mrs. Prevost, the accomplished widow of a British officer who died in the West Indies. To them was born Theodosia, Burr’s only legitimate child. Soon after he moved to New York City, where he stood among the leaders of the bar. In this field Alexander Hamilton was his principal rival, and here Burr formed a dislike for Hamilton that ripened into malice. For two terms Burr served in the New York legislature, and while thus engaged his abilities as an artful politician began to assert themselves. He-defeated Philip Schuyler for United States Senate, where he labored six years with great ability.
His fascinating manners contributed greatly to his success in Congress. One of his early friends when asked in what his personal attraction consisted, replied: “In his manner of listening to you. He seemed to give your thought much more value by the air with which he received it, and to find much more meaning in your words than you intended. No flattery was equal to it.”
He was elected Vice-President of the United States in 1800, and near the close of his term he was candidate for Governor of New York, but was defeated by Morgan Lewis. His defeat was due principally to the efforts of Hamilton. This greatly aggravated the enmity existing between them, and led to the duel in which Hamilton was killed. In this case the coroner’s jury returned a verdict of murder. Burr escaped to South Carolina, where he remained in seclusion. After the exitement had died away his enemies were not disposed to prosecute him. He returned to Washington and completed his term as Vice-President.
Though his political prospects were now blighted, though he. was regarded with suspicion, and his movements were watched, his resolute spirit did not forsake him. Soon after he turned his course toward the West. From Pittsburg he floated in a boat to New Orleans. The project he had in view was a mysterious one. It seems to have been his purpose to collect, a body of troops, conquer Texas, and establish, a government, of which-be was to be emperor. With this end in view, he purchased four hundred thousand acres of land on Red River, tb.be used as a rendezvous for his forces. Before.he had. made much progress, President Jefferson denounced the project, and it imme-. ; diately collapsed.
• Burr was arrested in Mississippi and brought to Richmond, Virginia, where occurred the memorable trial for treason. Though cleared
of this charge, his good name was forever blasted. Soon after he sailed for Europe, where he wandered about for several years. Much of this time was spent in extreme poverty.
In 1812 he returned to New York in disguise, and resumed the practice of law. At the age seventy-eight he married Madame Jumel, the widow of a French merchant. Owing to Burr’s reckless use of his wife’s money the union proved unhappy, and they soon separated. Shunned by society, Burr died at Port Richmond, Staten Island, September 14, 1836.
Small in stature, he was often called “ little Burr.” His features were clear-cut and he was strikingly handsome. His fascinating manners carried him through many difficulties. Blessed with a brilliant intellect and with every advantage that education could give, his misguided talents led him to his final ruin. A perusal of his life presents little to admire and much to excite scorn. Associated in youth with the traitor Benedict Arnold, the memory of one suggests the name of the other.
A Yellow Dog.
ANTHONY BROGAN.
He was sitting on the edge of a side-walk o	o
describing semicircles with his tail, and gazing at a row of well-strung sausages which hung in a butcher’s window. From his wistful look one might infer he was thinking how well they would taste, or that he was searching among them for the remains of a friend. Although he belonged to the category of yellow dogs, his color suggested to my mind a few of the peculiarities of that hue.
In many things the color yellow is pleasing to the eye of man, and in accordance with what may properly be considered good taste; while in other things it appears only in a repulsive light.. That many objects are beautiful because they are yellow remains undisputed; but others depend on circumstances or surroundings for the manner in which they must be classified: For example, an artist might rave about the yellow locks of some fair-haired maiden; but if her face chanced to be the color of potter’s clay his. admiration would be short lived—unless he were a Chinese artist. It is doubtful if even a Chinaman sees more beauty in a yellow face’ than he does in a white one. In fact, we can conclude from his .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
fondness for pale-faced, Sunday-school teachers that he prefers one of Caucasian mold.
Although we may not object to yellow as the color of our laundryman’s face, we enter a spirited protest if he gets our shirt-bosoms that hue. We think it an admirable color in flowers, but an abominable one in dogs. What the unfortunate yellow dog has ever done to incur universal displeasure is a mystery, unless it be that he is devoid of a family tree. Whatever is the cause of his unpopularity, he is only found useful to serve as a means of amusement for small boys, and in making odious comparisons. Youngsters take an especial delight in tormenting him. Grown folk, who make no particular effort to be original, find the animal handy when they wish to form a simile discreditable to their neighbor. A man that prides himself on his physical courage can be insulted in no easier way than to tell him his bravery is of a yellow tint. •
The manner in which an object affects us depends largely upon circumstances. In autumn a. tree covered with yellow leaves is a beautiful sight; but if it presented ’ that appearance in early spring it would be a gloomy object. Nearly all goslings are yellow, but who has ever seen a goose of the same color? No one has; but if one should, it would hardly awaken so much curiosity as I once saw displayed before a book store, over the door of which was painted a large yellow cross. In the doorway stood a little man who gesticulated wildly while giving the curious an explanation of this cross. He said it had an historical meaning. During the last terrible plague of London, all families that were so unfortunate as to be stricken with the dread disease were obliged to paint over their doors a cross similar to this one. His landlord had threatened to throw him out, so he took this means to warn others that the house was to be avoided. Almost all that passed wished an explanation. Since this gave the little man an opportunity of airing his knowledge—a thing news-dealers are extremely fond of- doing—he willingly did so, but always in his own favor. His landlord preferring to sustain a pecuniary loss than to have a damaged character, acceded to the stationer’s terms, and had the cross removed.
-Some relics of: the custom that prevailed in plague-stricken London of making- disease known by means of yellow still remain with us. Quarantine stations and small-pox hospitals have flags of that color. We frequently see a yellow card hanging-in the window of a house,
which is an invariable sign that some of the occupants suffer with a fever. Yellow may also be regarded as a fair indicator of mental as well as bodily disease. For instance, one who habitually reads yellow-covered books or periodicals is considered incapable of following the “ narrow, crooked path.” So far no one. has advanced a hypothesis to prove that the perusal of .this kind of literature is injurious to the moral character. It might, however, be set forth in the form of an axiom that the binding of all law books is of that color.
Yellow in cloth is not objectionable; yet an orange banner has the same effect on most natives of the North of Ireland that a red rag has on a turkey cock. The sight of the flag incenses them as much as if all their wrongs were inscribed in its folds. But, strange to say, their ancestors followed one until it was red -with their blood. Their dress also for themost part was yellow, for the fighting-famed gallow-glasses of O’Neill and O’Donnell* wore shirts of that hue which covered them from neck to knees. Since most things are matters of custom, we may infer from this that the yellow dog . will some day come into fashion and the yellow aster go out.	_
-------------------
Books and. Periodicals.
School Odyssey. Eight Books and Vocabu- - -	.
lary. By Perrin and Seymour. Ginn & Co. Boston. . . This edition by two practical teachers con- .	-	•
tains an introduction, the text, a commentary, and a vocabulary. The introduction covers’ ' ,Y seventy pages. The author tells us briefly of	:, J
epic poetry, the life in the Homeric age, the	f Y
story of the Trojan war, the story of the Iliad,	„ ,	-
the story of the Odyssey. The Homeric lan-	- .:
guage and verse occupy the greater part of the . Y-; > introduction—pages 23-66. Here the student . T? will find valuable information. The arrange- TY ment and the disposition of the material, --vyy together with the “Index to the Introduction,” \ make the work of reference easy. The text is . - ; Y? the latest of Dindbrf-Hentze, and presents the
. first four books—the ninth, tenth, eleventh, . AA and twelfth, with 189 verses of the thirteenth.' ” Every-teacher will like this selection; for no .	: ..Y Y
portion is better calculated to create a love for;
Homer in the heart of the student than .books.
9-12. The commentary, which is based on the- -YYYjY work.of ‘Ameis-Hentze, is-concise.and to the;
point.' The illustrations are really, fine arnkyYiY give a-desire for more. The book. ih shortl?is Y’-1 valuable for teacher and student..-
...
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
is
Notre Dame, January S3, 1898.
53ublisljctJ rbcrj Saturtan burins JErrnt Eime at fl. 33. Snibrrsitp.
Entered as secoud-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $r.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dame has awakened to the present of things* Our record-makers-are few—if there are any * at all—but by training and hard work wonderful things can be done. In the spring, then,— ah, what happy things the spring promises!— the hurdles and shot and hammer will be brought into use again, and Notre Dame will struggle to the top in track athletics, which is her place, and should be held by her sons.
The Board of Editors.
.	ELMER
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97; FRANK E. HERING, ’98; WILLIAM SHEEHAN,’98; EDWARD J.MINGEY, ’98;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99;
J. MURPHY, ’97;
FRANK J. F. CONFER, ’97;
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98
FRANCIS W. O’MALLEY, ’99;
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99;
LOUIS C. M. REED, FRANCIS o’shaughnessey, f- Reporters. ROY A. MURRAY,	'
—In this week the Scholastic publishes the lecture of Hon. William P. Breen to the students of the University on Montalembert. The history of this prominent French leader is intensely interesting; and certainly Mr. Breen . * has presented it as fully and concisely as possible.	. -
—For the past week the English students have been given three delightful lectures by Dr. Spaulding, on the three great American . litterateurs—Emerson, Hawthorne, and Lowell. Next Monday the" last-oL.the series will be delivered. Dr. Spaulding’s ability is much above that of most lecturers. Besides the charm of good writing, he also has oratorical . skill; and the study of the American writers was deep and exhaustive., Next week the Scholastic hopes to give fuller account of the series when it is finished.
—Track athletics at Notre Dame are.born, forcek The bill restricts the pound rates of one or rather re-born; for in days seemingly far cent to'..copies serit to legitimate subscribers -	. who voluntarily order and. pay for the same,
and excludes all sample copies and exchanges and: coihplimentary copies. This would , also < require a government inspector to compare the ^number of subscribers with the number of papers sent out..fit also prevents the sending out of
’back to younger students,they once flourished, and sprinting and jumping "and vaulting and ;
other forms of expenditure of energy in which = records*are sought for, were rife on every field' . day. ;4t seems strange, that they were allowfed
to be dropped for the past three dr four years
with the good they brought withAhem. ; special or,: holiday numbers except to sub. ^However, letting by-'gones be by-gones, Notre scribers that have paid in advance. The extra
—On Thursday afternoon the athletes gave up a few moments to the election of officers for the spring term. Everything:—thanks to the revision of the constitution—went on smoothly; the hubbub and quibbling of years gone, the ballot-box stuffing, the hall fights, were all happily absent, laid away to rest, it is hoped, forever. Of the successful candidates the Scholastic says nothing. The judgment of the voters has always been good in former -elections; it surely did not fail at this time.
Of the future the Scholastic speaks but little. The baseball season opens, or will open, with a flourish and in sunshine. The Varsity of ’97 was strong and skilful; won glorious victories, and closed the season with a matchless, errorless game.
Many of the old team are champing their bits in eagerness to rush out on the diamond;, and with’ those new-comers, the old places should be. well .filled. Just a word, you older men. The time for practice will soon be here. Do not be assured of a position on the team because you were successful last year. There may be better men as yet unknown. Even if there are not, it is your duty to work hard and conscientiously. .Now, then, we are ready for the baseball season.	.

—It seems that a severe blow is about to be given college journalism, unless a sufficient number of petitioners be gained to prove to our-legislators what an objectionable law the “ Loud Bill’’ would become if it were put into
■a.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	287
postage thus charged on all books or publications sent out will enrich the express companies at the expense of the people; -
The Land Bill certainly attempts to correct a great evil in the postal system; blit the means are not just. There ate a tiumbet of publi= Cations under the title of heWspapets which , flood the country, especially at certain seasons of the year, which ate nothing mote than advertising mediums. By such fourth-class matter the post offices are congested, and the government loses a large sum of mohey. This evil, however, should be met in another way» The abuse of privilege by advertisers that pretend to publish newspapers should.be met by government inspection; and legislation should be brought to bear upon that point.
It is to be hoped at least that the bill will meet, with disapproval by the. further-seeing legislators, and that college journalism will not be restricted by any such measures.
—The Varsity Verse has come to the bottom of his manuscript box of contributions, rummaged into the corners, and found not so much as a quatrain or triolet. In fact, there is no verse; and up to this time the editor has been disappointed in find soil so promising asNotre Dame quite barren and uncultivated. It may well be called a fallow field, as far as metrical contributions to the Scholastic go.
There are many, no doubt, that have their few little lines, read them over and over, and, • despairing of ever reaching perfection, have consigned them to the waste-basket, and resolved to write no more. It is a tender spirit that succumbs so easily. All of us are very, far from perfect. Indeed, it is given as a rule that the greatest men are always dissatisfied with their work.	~	*
The Scholastic begs to have a glimpse at these unfortunate lines. Sometimes it sees deeply, and finds worth where others see nothing. At least it will handle the verse tenderly; make suggestions in all kindliness, and help you to write for publication. ?
Our good Varsity Verse column has lived too good and too short a life to expire now. It-'should be the care of the undergraduates. They- should fuse red blood . into its veins, and make it grow; strong - and sturdy.; The Scholastic’s friends have breathed1 blessings Upom so fair a child, and wished it long years.
■ Shall dt be said the students of Notre Dame . have let it die? .	.	.
Titus Maccius Plautus.,
The most popular: Latin comic writer is L : Titus Maccius Plautus| for such is his name, If r. : the testimony of the Ambrosian manuscript -A" discovered by Cardinal Mai is correct. His writings were hardly known during the Middle A .A Ages; but the interest which the learned of . this century and of the'present time show, in .	;	.
the writings of this favorite author is ample A1 A. compensation . for that temporary neglect; .	..;
Plautus Was born a free man of poor parents . A " at Sarsina, a country town in Umbria. The . A ' '' exact year of his birth is not known, perhaps - A 254. Cicero vouches fpr the date of his death . ' A: in 184.	;	; V. A A
When this Umbrian youth came from the Gallic frontier he found himself a stranger . and friendless in proud and victorious Rome.	A. Y
There was no. Maecenas to protect literary	; A
talent. This foreign barbarian was destined to	/..A/
enrich the Roman literature. He came well - A equipped, with a wide and varied knowledge	'
of the Greek literature. His specialty was the .	.
Greek comedy; No one can tell how manifold -	;
his needs may have been, and what indomit- . - A able courage was required to persevere in his ? A attempts before he acquired that mastery in r ; • style for which we like him'so much. The .///-' story that he lost a hard-earned fortune in rash Y/.';A speculation, and the anecdote:that he worked	'
in a mill, deserve little credence and are of still	, A
less importance.	-	‘ .AA
From the fact that Plautus, whose talent . * A > can not be overrated, studied exclusively the* A Greek models, it may. be inferred that the ,. /-•// treasures of the Etruscan, the Oscan, and the ? A..A Messapian literatures were already lost and ; /A A forgotten at his time. There may have been * A: A talent; a talent strong, original, prolific, and A corresponding with the wild surroundings of a luxuriant nature. But these creations of the ; A A Italic genius were not fostered by. Rome—, AA “politically the master, intellectually the slave /<A of Greece”—and nothing but Grecian repro-; .//AA ductions became palatable to the. fastidious/;; A< < Roman.. This was,.perhaps, no misfortune for A ; the Roman literature. .	/,/AAa:A'/A
Plautus; appears on the stage a-.few^years-^/'Af^ later than Livius Andronicus, who, imjthe-. A A: • Midi romani, presented the first tragedy .Roman language.. He was also a contempdra^ of “ Ennius, the real founder of the Roman AA A-literature, the. reformer ,of the/Rpmain\ lan- YAA/
* A
1
I
288
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5
guage.” Plautus, with his keen wit and spicy humor, struck the responsive chord in the Roman’s soul, and his success was assured.
We could not call Plautus an original writer; but he is a master in tiie art of translation. His comedies have many passages of his own invention, and their originality is a credit to the author; but in general his plays are translations and adaptations from the Greek. The comedies thus worked after the Attic New Comedy are called fahnlee palliates, from the Grecian mantle in which the players appeared on the stage, in contradistinction with the fabulec togatec, so called from the Roman toga. Sometimes two or more Greek plays are patched together in one. The delineation of the characters is sometimes borrowed, sometimes—and more frequently—the poet’s own. This shows that he was a poet indeed; although he never reached the strong, individualizing characterization of Shakspere. No one can make him. a reproach for introducing Roman affairs and Roman names in an Attic scene; that added to the piquancy of the situation. The Attic scene was principally retained for political reasons. To look for unity in the plays of Plautus is a mistake of the critic.
Although the Roman language had scarcely taken a firm form and-was more in a state of transition, Plautus uses it with the strong hand of- a master. He adapts to Greek metrical forms the language of the people—the lan--gifage used in everyday life. He rejects the old Saturnian verse, and strikes out boldly in . measures untried. This is nowhere more clearly demonstrated than in the lyric cantica of his . comedies. The main difference between’ the lyric art of Plautus and the Greek-Euripidean
• lyric is this: Plautus uses verses in stichic compositions which the Greek masters used singly, and he combines existing elements into verse forms. Forms are not created; they grow. The creative genius of the artist does not produce them, but he ennobles them by giving them an individuality of their own. : These elements scattered in the Greek models gain a new form, a new. dignity, by the process of
_ .	.	_	It was reserved to our own times to put ,Plautus
; combination, of reformation, and of association up in his place, and.to admire the stranger who ' Whoever considers matters in this connec- has created with Attic stuff and Greek forms
tion, and wishes to. gain- a geherak view, must . see that Plautus in? the development'of his
lyric measures has not blindly, followed an' existing 'metrical system or theory, and that his work must be regarded: as-an extension, an
; ' additional link- in the long chain,; an active style.
factor in the progressive movement of ths Grecian art. Plautus is not groping in the dark; he is not only at times pouring forth the fulness of forms from the folds of his sleeve, but his art rests on fixed and determined principles that appear equally in all his compositions. He goes beyond the forms that are traditional; he does not slavishly adopt them without change; he moves onward with the bold freedom of a genius; his innovations are not fragmentary.
Plautus could obtain these results only after long, intelligent and careful study. He had-no time for rash speculations, no time to work in the mill. He studied the Greek poets, made Latin verses, tried new combinations, worked himself completely into the spirit of his models, made them his property, and transplanted their genius into the Roman language. There is no possibility that a system treated with such freedom could have grown from the simple appropriation of foreign forms learned after the fashion of a school-boy; it is rather a system that has grown from an active and intelligent imitation and extension of forms—the system of a Plautinian genius that has stamped its own Plautinian character on the organic appearance of the whole new combination.
We might expect a great number of hellenisms in the writings of Plautus. But if we had a more extensive knowledge of the Italic languages, we could trace these expressions to their Italic origin. Varro says of the style of Plautus: “The Muses, if they spoke Latin, would use the language of Plautus.” Cicero, too, praises the language of Plautus,, whose natural superabundance of sparkling humor is especially evident in the lively dialogue. Horace criticizes it. We do not blame Horace for. doing so, noi' do we like Plautus the less for the criticism of the Roman lyric champion. Plautus is a master of his style and of his art, but no writer is always equal to himself. Horace himself is not excepted from this rule. We would scarcely blame history for ignoring, for so long a time, Plautus, of whom Horace says: “Gestit enim nummum in loculos demittere.”
R
I
£•
&

I
g F ?
¥
has created; with Attic stuff and Greek forms
a new musical .drama where harmony swells in rich and vigorous sounds—the barbarous, poet
who has.harmonized the conflicting Greek and Roman . elements, and has subjected them to?
his own diversified, irridescent, but. uniform
: L b. s. ,
DAME SCHOLASTIC.
N0TJ1E
Exchanges.
289C
Our Friends.
We hasten to assure the exchange editor of the Georgetown College Journal^ that in our recent remarks about his paper it was far from our intention to be “unjust to the Journal and to the Faculty of Georgetown.”. We have too much respect for the Faculty and too much regard for the Blue and Gray to do them any injustice. He asks us, “will he kindly point out which are those articles that he alleges were written by the Faculty?” He will, and other contributions from men not even members of the Faculty. “ Why Should a College Student Study Biology?” by Doctor Stiles of the medical school, and “Incidents of a Physico-Hygienic Trip to Rome” by Doctor Irving C. Rosse, also of the medical school, are surely from the Faculty. Then in recent numbers of the Journal there have been poems by Doctor Egan of the Catholic University, Father Tabb of St. Charles’ College, the Reverend Thos. M. Connell, S. J., a professor in another college, the Rev. C. J. Clifford, S. J., an old Georgetown professor, and Mr. George H. Howard, “a warm friend of the college.” There could be no objection to occasional contributions from the “ warm friends,” members of the Faculty and from Doctor Egan, Mr. Wilton Lackaye, Mr. Michael Earles, Mr. Edgar Kidwell, “Alumnus,” “Alumnus ’72” and other alumni whose names we have noticed, provided these contributions were occasional; but when such work fills the pages of the Journal to the exclusion, in no small degree, of writing done by undergraduate and graduate students, it begins to take the appearance of padding. We know that in the past even the editorials were written by a professor, but this, we hope, is not the case now. The exchange editor frankly acknowledges that the editorial basket overflows with undergraduate essays; but these can not be published because they would be “ seldom. or never read.”*If the ex.-man only knew it, he is the one that is “ unjust to the Journal and to the Faculty of Georgetown,” to put it mildly. Certainly there are students that are well -able to write things of interest for a college journal; and they should write if the paper is to be so called. There are college papers on our exchange list that are real college'papers—of tlie students, by the students and .for .the students—with never a word_from a faculty member, and we must admit that we obtain much more profit and ^pleasure from' »those than we do from the Journal.
—The Reverend Thomas Henry'Corbett, late assistant Rector- of Sorin Hall, is engaged in professorial work at Holy C^oss College, New-Orleans. ’
—Mr. C. B. yiynn, ’88-’9i, is located in Monterey, Mexico, where, with his brother, Mr. J. F. Flynn, is interested in mining. Another brother, who is also an old Notre Dame student, Mr. Nicholas Flynn, is connected with the Kansas City smelting Co. of Argentine, Kansas.
—Mr. Samuel C. Curtis is soliciting freight Agent for the C. B. and 0. R.R. with headquarters in Chicago. Many of the old students remember when Mr. Curtis was one of Notre Dame’s “crack” sprinters, and even those that came to Notre Dame after he had left have heard of the famous race in which he beat Mr. Hal Jewett. The Scholastic congratulates Mr. Curtis upon his rapid rise in the railroad world.
—The European correspondent of The Catholic . ~ Columbian, writing of the University of Louvain * and its students,says: “The Stars and Stripes are represented by a single American who struggles bravely to uphold the honor of his country—and he does it, too, in characteristic -. American fashion. Entering the University in -entire ignorance of the language, he has mastered French, attended his courses and passed the first year’s examination—sa thing which " two out of five native students fail to do.” The “single American” is Mr. Richard Slevin, Valedictorian and winner of the Quan gold medal of the Class of ’97.
— Frederick Emil Neef (B. S. ’62, B. L. ’93,	. .
M. L. ’95) is still in Berlin, Germany, working * in the lines of his chosen profession. He finished in June a course in Natural Therapeutics, ranking first in a class of eight. He has selected the physico-dietetic system of medicine, a new system which is said to be in possession of discoveries which threaten the , < overthrow of many “fundamental facts” of ,? the . present therapeutic methods. The following communication, recently sent by him to a ’? -Springfield paper, may be of interest to some ' of our readers:	'	'
The most remarkable rabbit of the world is in , ; possession of the International Physiological Reform Committee, and was exhibited during the congress of, Naturaerzte in Leipsic, and in the meeting of the Hygi- .. j . enic Society in Berlin. It is remarkable because it lives ?/; . : without difficulty, and even thrives, with principal veins bound in six places. One would imagine that such an -	:
extensive-interruption of the circulation would immedi-. a'tely result in death, as under such relations, a circulation , , ; 7 is really no longer possible. Several years ago an Aus- . V j trian physiologist, Professor Jezek, proved that an animal?-can live without blood-circulation. He is said to have F'-:? ■bound the arteries of several animals and the veins ot ,	?
others, and new collateral routes were never formed; and	?
the abduction, examined months after, afforded no lasting : -compensative extension of passages. This livingwonder. ? ■ will arouse great interest in scientific circles, especially:7 ; among physicians and physiologists. ’ ' : >' ?- ; ??,
1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I
I
290
Local Items.
daily for extra copies, but there is not a single	|
number to be had.	I
—Bro. Urban wishes herewith to thank those	|
of his student .friends who were mindful of	|
him at Christmas time, since he is so fortunate	|
in having so many as to be unable to thank	|
them personally.	|
—Flannigan.—A	German doctor told me	-
that playing a horn was the best remedy for	I
weak lungs.	.	g
Van Hee.—Wouldn’t you call that a tot	|
tonic (teutonic) '.remedy.
—C. M. Niezer left on Thursday for Indianapolis to be present-at the meeting of the . I Indiana Athletic Association. He will present	|
the application of Notre Dame for membership.	i
He was also delegated to apply for admission	|
into the State Oratorical Association.
—Mr. A. Livingston, manager of the Notre Dame Athletic Association’s store, has gone East to select his spring stock of goods. He will bring back, with him a complete line of fine athletic goods, and students who desire athletic articles will have a large stock to select from.
—John Eggeman’s father writes that he considered his son too much of a man to engage in the “girl game” of basket-ball. John wrote back that he also plays “drop the handkerchief,” and “ tag,” and will soon join “ Chawlie’s ” Tefinis Club for the development . of the muscles.
—The Fire Department was out for practice Thursday, the ladder truck was pressed into service and with hook ladders the boys scaled the walls of Washington Hall with the ease of old fire fighters. The company are practising steadily and the excellence of their work has been remarked by many.
—The Minims and all at St. Edward’s Hall . return sincere thanks to Very Reverend Father Franpais for the large box of fine candy, all the way from Paris, which he sent to them last Sunday. He and the Reverend President were present at the distribution, and took great pleasure in seeing, the little fellows dispose of the Parisian bon-bons.
-Hand-ball is not a lost art at Notre Dame. A tournament was ,arranged to decide the relative merits of the players. It was concluded last Wednesday. Donovan and Fleming were the final winners. It. is to be hoped that-the interest in the game will increase, for it is the . most scientific indoor. game, in .the athletic .	.
roster, and with' a little effort iLcouId be incorporated in the intercollegiate games. . .
—A sleek, suspicious , individual came into	'
the, meat department the’ other day and, pil-
; fered one of the prize hams. The steward immediately called upon the local, detective agency dr police, but the alarm was given too late; the fellow had sneaked it away to a hid-irig place. , A reward is offered for the ham or
—The call was issued yesterday for baseball candidates and the men will begin practice tpmorrow.
—For some reason or other, Capt. Bob won’t get any more water. Come now, Bob, you’re a good fellow!
—Fred Waters received a new racing wheel last week. He is impatient already, awaiting the glad spring weather.
—Joe Sullivan has been installed in the position of assistant librarian, made vacant by the departure of Albert Magruder.
—The billiard table has been recovered. It wasn’t lost; but it needed a new cover badly.—
Ed.—John Landers is still playing.
—The basket-ball players are rejoicing that the. leaders have reorganized the game. They have been given a training table in consequence.
—A neck scarf was found in the Brownsori Hall dining-room some weeks ago. The owner may procure the same by applying to the refectorian.	.
—“1 see my finish,” said the billiard balls, as Lan Johnders stepped out of the cab, and put-down his bulky telescope prepared for a six months’ stay.	•
—The gold men who scoff at the idea of the currency becoming contracted should, make inquiry among the students—since Crowley called on them.
•	—It is to be regretted that we have a few
large boys who can not’ keep quiet during a lecture or entertainment. When, oh when, will we get some sense!
— Now that we’ve all returned safe and * sound, let us shake hands with ourselves, and join in the good old chorus, “There’ll be a hot time.” Mike .will lead.	■
—On Washington’s Birthday, the 'Elocution classes of the University will present the play
. “A Night Off,” by Augustin Daly. The parts . have already been assigned. .
. —The other morning some of the younger boys of Sorin Hall mistook a hall-tree fora Christmas tree, and had great fun laughing at ■ . the “ barren branches of the blamed thing.”
2—Jerome J. Crowley was elected by the Executive Committee to the office of assistant
. treasurer, Brother Paul having, been elected •treasurer at the. close ofthe football season.
—Brother Gregory and the students of .Sorin -	- Hall are indebted to Mr. Naughton of Chicago
. - for the receipt of a number of pictures. . The \ same now adorn the walls of the SorinfHall
.. reading-room. . '. . ...	\ ;	; ‘ •_ ■
; : —Qur last'edition (3000) of the Scholastic, \	The “ Corby Memorial Number,” was exhausted
:	... before Tuesday night. Demands are coming in
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
• the capture of the gentleman at leisure. For further particulars see the steward.
—The stationery department of the Students’ Office will be open to the students of Brownson, Sorin, Holy Cross and St. Joseph Halls at 9.30 a. m. every day except Thursday, and Sundays. Students of Carroll Hall will be cared for on Saturdays, Mondays and Tuesdays at 4 p. m., and oh Thursday morning after Mass. Please bear this in mind, and do not trouble the secretaries at other times.
‘ —Frank McNichols tells a story on one of the Chicago boys. This boy was given two tickets to Bishop Spalding’s lecture, and told to take a friend with him. He met McNichols, and asked him to go. When they reached the hall the youth with the tickets saw on the , bottom the words, subject “ Opportunity.” Here said he, addressing Mac, these tickets are subject to opportunity, that means that we can’t get in if the house is crowded. When Mac looked at the tickets and saw the words he had a good laugh on the innocent youth.
—The call for candidates to the track team was responded to by a large number of students, and regular work was begun on Monday. The outlook is very encouraging. Rowan and Hoover have the fun to themselves in the high jump, and, with apology for the joke, they will make some of the college medal winners jump to beat them. Three good men with strong arms have entered for the short and hammer throw—Eggeman, Swonk and Powbrs. The sprinters have shown up well, although they have not the chance indoors that other contes- -
tants have. Barry, Duane, Posselius arid White are all experienced runners, and they wilL do good work. We will be particularly strong" in cycle races with Grady, Waters and Pim.
—The regular semi-annual meeting of the Athletic Association was called to order by Prof. Hoynes in the Brownson reading-room Thursday, Jan. 20, 1898. At this meeting a ■promoter and an executive committee were chosen. F. O’Malley gave notice of a proposed amendment to the constitution relative to the establishment of an Advisory Board, to be composed of three non-resident graduates of the University. Mr. Mullen called attention to
a proposed revision regarding the relations —The lamps of the study-hall shone down . between field reporters' and the Executive upon the quiet workers; the only sound that " -	.......... : reverberated upon the ear was the ratchet-
. Committee. Then the following officers were
chosen: Promoter, Brother Leander; Execu-. five Committee, Messrs. M. J. Powers and E. J. Murphy of Sorin Hall, and Messrs. McDonald and Callahan of Brownson Half; On motion the meeting adjourned. '	.
—.“I’ve got a good joke,” said Tomlinson, approaching a young man on the local staff.
“What is your joke, Mr.Tomlinson?’’ asked . the young man.	. .
, Do you know why the sprinters do not go to the end of the Carroll-gym in practice?” Tomlinson asked in his inimitable way.
“ I do not know of any particular reason,” replied the other.	*	.
“ Why, you see they don’t want to get off the . dirt.”_ .
Tomlinson went away smiling. Pretty soon he came back. “Did I say get off the dirt?” “That is what you said,” replied the‘gent.’ “Well, if you want to publish it, you had . better make it read, ‘Get off fhe earth?”
Society Notes.
The election of officers of the Columbians . for the coming session was held on Thursday, Jan. 13.. The following officers were elected; Professor F. X. Carmody, President; 1st VicePresident, Jerome Crowley; 2d Vice-President, Frank Bouza; Recording Secretary, Robert Funke; Corresponding Secretary,-F. X. Me- . Collum; Treasurer, H.Crumley; Critic, Charles ' Ensign; Sergeant-at-Arms, James Conway. -
The St. Cecilians held their first meeting for f ’98, Wednesday evening. The following officers were elected: Honorary President, Rev. A. Morrissey; Musical Director, Professor N. A. Preston; Dramatic Instructor, F. X. Carmody; Promoter, Bro. Alexander; President, Rev. J. French; 1st Vice-President, T. J. Murray; 2d Vice-President, Wm. Shea; Recording Secretary, R. A. Murray; Corresponding Secretary, ' C. Girsch; Treasurer, C. Pul ford; Historian, A. Krug; 1st Censor, T. Noonan; 2d Censor, A. ' Becker; Sergeant-at-Arms, J. Slevin. A very interesting program was made out for the next meeting.	’	.
The Philopatrians held their second meeting Wednesday, Jan. 19,1898. The following officers were elected: Father Cavanaugh, Literary.
Director; Father Hudson, Literary Critic; Bro. Alexander, Promoter; Prof. Preston, Musical . Director; Bro, Cyprian, President; T. Mulcare, 1st Vice-President; E. Sheekey, 2d Vice-President; W. McNichols, Treasurer; A. Gibbons, RecordingSecretary; F. Morgan,Corresponding Secretary; W. Bellinnger, Sergeant- at-Arms; • L. Garrity, Librarian; D. Padden, Historian; Davidson and Leffingwell, Censors. Masters Higgins, Coquillard and A. Freidmiin’ were admitted into the society. Master G. Moxley . entertained with Grapohone.
click of the students’ brains as they poured over the text-books. Here and there a drowsy, fellow was stealing a quiet nap at his desk? The quiet that prevailed was much like that in which the stage villain creeps in upon- the sleeping hero. Joe Murray sat with his chair tilted back, thinking of the dinner last Thanksgiving day; cajoling himself with such sweet memories, he lapsed into a slumber. Suddenly a sound was heard resembling the; craclc.of a beam, followed by a crunching of timber; and then a heavy thud, as though some ponderous

notrjs dams se&osAST/e.
hulk had descended from the heavens. The floor shook, the students sprang to their feet and whispered to one another: “The dome has fallen.” It was a moment of wild dismay, but a tap from the prefect’s bell restored quiet, and Murray emerged from the debris of his chair that had broken to splinters..
—The disappointment occasioned by the cancelling of* the basket-ball game by the Clyborne team of Chicago, was mollified by a strong game between two teams selected from the Halls. The game was played Saturday evening in the Carroll gym. The seats were filled to their capacity, and the interest was keen during the play. Although Hall spirit was not shown to encourage the players, they were none the less earnest. McNichols of Carroll Hall played a good game. It was his first appearance in a contest, and he showed the form and endurance of the old Carrolls who were the winners of the trophy cup. Donahue was also a new man in the game, and he was not less active than the seasoned veterans who made up the personnel of the teams. Steiner captained the winning and O’Shaughnessy the losing side. During the intermission of the halves, Hubbard recited a humorous piece that was highly appreciated, and at the close of the game Crowley was called on to recite. He more than sustained the reputation he has earned by his excellent rendition. In passing, credit must be given to Bro. Hugh for the new tiers of seats that he had erected. They reach almost to the ceiling and will accommodate more than a hundred spectators. The score of the game is as follows: Players	" Goals .
Steiner (Capt.)
Donovan,	2
Burns,
Fennessey,	3	<
McNichols,	—
Total	s
Score
4
6
io
Geohegan, *	i
' Donahoe,	’
■ O’Shaughnessey (Capt.) •
Cornell,	-
Watterson,	—
.	Total	3
4
6
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Atherton, Arce, Brown, Brucker, Byrne, Carney, Cornell, Daly, Drejer, Dukette, Delaney, Eyanson, Fennessey, Foley, Franey, Follen, Gilbert, Hanhauser, Hay, Johnson, "Kearney, Landers, Medley,.Mott, Miller, Mullen, Mingey, Monahan^ Morris, McConn, McGinnis, McCormack, McDonough, O’Sullivan, Sheehan, Spauld-. ing, Steiner, Wurzer, Welker, Weadock, I Wise, Ward, . 'Walsh.	.	..
. .	BROWNSON HALL. .	. .
. Messrs. Adams, Armijo, H. Barry, Bohner, F. Bouza, J.
Bouza, Baab, ;W. Berry, J. Berry, Bouwens, Baloun, , Bommersbach, Boyle, Brechinar, Callahan, C. Corby, Crowley, Cavanaugh, Crunican^Coriway, Cypher, Collins, Crumley, Campbell, Dalton, Donahoe,,Dooley, |Donovan,
V. Dwyer, Devine, T. Dillon, Darst, Davies, J. Dillon Desmond, T. Dwyer, Doherty, Diskin, Ensign, Fitzwilliam, Fetherston, Farragher, Farley, Foster, Fleming, C. Flannigan, M. Flannigan, Furry, Fogarty, Glynn, Glasheen, Graham, Guilfoyle, Gainer, R. Garza, C. Garza, Gordon, Hoover, Herbert, Harrington, Hubbard, Healy, Hagerty, Hanley, Houlihan, S. L. Hunter, S. R. Hunter, C. Hunter, A. Hayes, J. Hayes, Howell, Hoban, Hesse, Hermann, Heffelfinger, Henneb'ry, Jennings, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Jerrell, Kellner, Kehoe, Klein, Kuppler, Koehler, Kasper, Kangley, Kessler, Keith, Kiley,'Kaul, Kennedy, Lins, Littig, Lampert, Merz, Metcalf, Mul-crone, Morrison, McKenzie, McCallen, A. McDonald, Morales, D. Naughton, J. Naughton, F. O’Shaughnessy, O’Reilly, M. O’Shaughnessy, O’Connor, ’ Otero, Pickett, Posselius, Pim, Powell, J. F. Ryan, Rupel, Reuss, Ree’d, Revels, San Roman, Sullivan, Schubert, Sauer, Shiels, Sherman, Sanford, St. Louis, Schwartz, Schermerhorn, Scott, Spalding, Swonk, Sossoman, Smogor, Tomlinson, Tong, Thacker, Tuohy, Thams, Van Hee, Vogt, Wynne, Wicyorek, Robert Wilson, Waters, W. Ward, Ralph Wilson, G. Wilson, Wagenman, White, Yockey.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Armijo, Bloch, Britt, Brice, F. Brown, Brann, Barrett, L. Beardslee, G. Beardslee, Bligh, Bellinger, H.J. Brown, Becker, Berger, Buck, Clement, Clyne, Caruthers, Crowley, Carney, Condon, Curtis, Coquillard, Coquillard, Cowie, Davidson, Dinnen, Donsett, Edgarton, Ellwanger, Ernst, Elitch, Flynn, Fink, Furlong, Ferstl, Frank, Flinn, Friedman,. Girsch, Gibbons, L. Garrity, M. Garrity, Graham, Hinze, Higgins, Holmes, Hanner, W. Hickey, Hogan, Hunter, Hoban, Hubbell, Juretich, J. Joyce, Jaworski, F. Kasper, R. Kasper, Krug, Kirkland, G. Kasper, Kelly, Luken, Land, Leffingwell, T. .Mulcare, J. Mulcare, Michels, Moon, Morris, Moxley, Morgan, Mooney, A. Mueller, W. Mueller, Maher, Meagher, J. McSorley, T. Murray, E. McCarthy, T. McCarthy, McMahon, McDonnell, McNichols, McConnell, McSheehy, McLernon, McDermoth, Nast, Nolan, Noonan, Naughton, Ordetx, O’Malley, O’Brien, Petritz, Padden, Phillips, J. Putnam, Quinlan, Ryan, Richon, Staples, Sibley, Smith, Swan, Seaman, Stengel, Slevin, E. Sheekey, Schmitt, Shea, Schoonover, J. Sheekey, Scheftels, Von Albade, Weidmann, White, Ward, Wheelock, Werk, Welch.
• ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Abrahams, Arnold, Abercrombie, T. Butler, W, Butler, Bernero, Blanchfield, Bosworth, P. Bortell, C. Bortell, Cressy, Casparis, Cunnea, Caruthers, Dougherty, Dyer, Downer, Dessauer, Donahoe, Davis, Ervin F. Ebbert, G. Ebbert, Frain, Frost, Fleischer, Fleming, A. Fuchs, C. Fuchs, J. Fogarty, F. Fogarty, Milton Flynn, Miles Flynn, Griffith, Guilbault, Huleatt, Houser, J. Hart, L. Hart, Hinsey, Hall, T. Jackson, G. Jackson, Jonquet, Kelly, Leclerque, J. Lawton, Lockwood, Leisan-der, E. Manion, P. Manion, J. McGeeney, E. McGeeney, P. McBride, L. McBride, J. McBride, Willie McBride, McCarthy, R. .McMaster, B. McMaster, A. McFarland, Minneman, B. Nye, C. Nye, Nix, Paul, F. Phillip, G. Phillip, Robbins, Strong, Sinnott, Schonlau, Shields, Seymour, Shipley, St. Clare, Topper, Veneziani, J. Van Dyke, F. Van Dyke, Von Albade, H. Van Dyke, Wilde, Weidman, Weber, Williams.
HOLY CROSS HALL. .	.
, Messrs. Barthel, Buse, Coyne, .Crowley, DeLorimier, Dwan, DeWulf, Darron, Davis, DuGuay, Gallagher, M. Gorski, Hiss, Heiser, J. J. Hennessey, J. I. Hennessey, Long, Lavin, Murphy, Marr, Moynihan, McKinney, F. McKeon, Nieuwland, M. J. Oswald,'M. Oswald, O’Brien, O’Connejl, Ritter, Rees, Sutton, Sullivan, A. Sammon, Schumacher, Szalewski/Trahey, Walsh, Wlmberg.
‘	. ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Benson, Brogan, Baldwin, Brand, Carlton, Cullinan, J.-Corley, E.. Corley, Dwyer, Dorian, Donahue, Doran; -Fenton, Guiff,. Hartzer, R. Jones, J. Kelly, Kachur, Lynch, Malone, F. Malloy, B. Malloy, McElligott,: J. McIntyre, McKeever, Norris, Neville, Pieper, Power, Rockey, Sullivan, Shields, Sherry, Van def Veimet, Wolf. -	....