

Loye isa giving thing. ,.. 
A perfe~t Ke~psake ,: .­diamond saysit all,' · ~-· 
. ·._: 

·..•· reflecti~g your.love in· ·.. · its brilliance and beauty;·_, . •. And you can choose;.with. · ·confidence because 'the :/ _ Keepsake guarantee assures, · -perfect clarify, fine white· 
color and precise . -Rachel modern cut. There is . · · . no finer diamond ring. . . . 
Box 90, Syracuse, N. Y. 13201 , . -. _ . •· · · . Please send ne~ 20 pg. booklet, ''.Planning Your Engagement and Wedding''. plus . · full color folder and 4fpg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. ­
.Nam.e....;___c_c_____;__________...;_____ 
Addre,~·;_-----'--------"----"----'----­
· Citv------'--'---,---'-------------------"-­
Stat•e_____.....;_________ Zip,_________ Find Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow P~ges or.dial fre~ 800.243-6000. 
. . . . . ' ,. . . . ' ... 
Volume 116, No. 13 April II, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 

6 The Arts at Notre Dame -The fine arts are alive and well at du Lac, ·varying through the entire spectrum of 
Editor 
this pleasureable side of life. 
James Gresser 

Art Director 


6 Collegiate Jazz Festival
Bill Weyland 
Production Manager 

7 Music

John Phelan 
Managing Editor 

8 Theatre

Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
10 Student Art· Show 

Jane Thornton Arts Editor 
11 Photography

Katy Sullivan .Sports Editor 

13 Notre Dame Art Gallery
Bill Delaney Business Manager Sarah Bartzen 

FEATURES 

Circulation Manager 
Paul DeBacco 
4 The Amish Studying the strict simplicity of Amish 

Photography Editor 
life.

Ed Brower 

Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, 16 Respect for Life -The human condition analyzed from Madonna Kolbenschlag, David 
four different perspectives by authorities at ND.
Schlaver, C.S.C., Richard Conklin. · Stall . · 


17 World Hunger Movement 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J. Waldoch, Dave Beno, Annemarie Sullivan, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Tara Carey, 19 The Retarded· and the Elderly. Mark Luppino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, 21 Abortion .. Jack Pizzolato, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy McE!roy, Dave Miller, Mike S:irahan; 23 Program in Non-Violence Nick Strittmatter, John M. Murphy, Mary Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luna, Mike 
32 Women Athletes -Along with coeducation comes
Feord, Patrick Smid, Mark Hopkins, Bethann McGregor, Bob Gilroy, Rich Odioso, Eileen women's athletics, struggling to gain · support and O'Grady, Paul Hess, John Vincent, .Tom 
· recognition. 

Moskow, Mike Towle, Rich Nugent, Dan Adler, Tom Desmond, Rich· Landry, Mike Casey, Paul Starkey, Patrick ·cole, Sue Grace, 
REGULARS

Bob Kissel, Gary Harden. The_ opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of . 14 · .Perspective ScHoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, 15 People Behind ~-D its administration, faculty or the student body. Second clas·s postage paid at Notre Dame, 29 Week in Distortion Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational 

30 .Letters

Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, · New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
31 People at ND

during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, 37 Sport Shorts Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from 38 The Last Word Scm;osTJc. Please address _all manu-. scripts to SCHOLASTIC., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the Illustrations: Photos on-cover, 6, 8(9, 10, 11, 16-25, 31, 34, 36, 37, 38'by.:Ed property of. SCHOLASTIC. . • Browner / Photos on 12 by Ann Mccarry, John Diugolecki, Dennis Boyle, Joe copyright. ® 1975 Scholastic j all· rights Michels / Photos. on 13 courtesy of Notre Dame Art Gallery / Photo on 15 reserved / none of the contents may be re­courtesy of Chris Stygar / Photo on 32 by Chris Smith / Graphics on 5, 27, 28 by produced without permission; Sharon Simon / Graphics on 16-25 by C. William Weyland / Cover by Weyland. 


TheAmish Seek the Pure,Life: 

by Bill Gonzenbach 
. 

Traveling down the rural roads ·_the Bibi~. But unlike most Protes-ing worldly ways which is expressed which cross the farmlands around tants; the Amish believe they must in Romans 12:1, ~•Be not conformed Middlebury, Indiana, it is easy to be separate from the world in order to this world, but be ye transformed determine which houses belong to to attain eternal life. by the renewing of ·your mind that Amish farmers and whichdo not. If In Europe the Amish were per-ye may prove wh~t is that ·good and. there are no electrical or telephone secuted by the church and state be-acceptabl~ and 'perfect will of God." wires leading to the house, it's an cause of their beliefs. When William For the' early Amish immigrants, Amish farmhouse. Penn extended his general invitation it was easy to live · separate, un­
. The Old Order Amish-the con-to persecuted people in Europe, _ worldly lives in . the isolated back servative, traditional sect of the· many Amish. came and -settled in _woods of northern Indiana. How­Amish religion-who live in north-Pennsylvania. Amish farmers slow-ever, today the forces of society and ern Indiana, believe that worldly ly migrated to northern Indiana and · technology are altering .the beliefs items, such as electrical appliances, to other midwestern states (Ohio, and culture of the Old Order Amish 
must not be used. The Amish also lliinois, etc.). The beginning of the in northern Indiana. 
believe that they must separate Amish community in northern Indi-· In addition to the fact· that one 
themselves from worldly society. As ana is described in the June 18, 1936, can detect-an Amish house because 
Perry Yoder, an Amish minister edition of the Middlebury Inde-there are no electrical wires con­
from Shipshewana, Indiana, says, pendent newspaper. nected to it, there are a' number of 
"We just want to follow the simple On June 3, 1841, four Amish fam-other factors which distinguish the 
ways of our fathers to find God." ilies left their homes in Pennsyl-Amish from worldly society. How:.· 
However, society and technology vania. Travelling in four two-horse ever, social progress is slowly modi­
are impinging on the simple ways of wagons and three one-horse wagons, · fying these factors. 
Amish life...Industrial America is they rode to Holmes County, Ohio, -An obvious 'distinguishing feature 
slowiy altering the customs of the where they stopped-for a week. At of the Amish is, their clothing. 
Old Order Amish in northern Indi-that time, the Black Swamp was al-Amish men wear denim pants and 
ana. : most impassable, so they went jackets when they work. The pants 
The Amish,: taking ·their name around to the north, crossing into and jackets are ·made at Gohn Bros. 
from their leader Jacob Ammon, are -_ Michigan, and. came through White Store in Middlebury." The wool-lined 
the descendents of a religious di~ Pigeon on ··June 28, 1841. They jackets cost · $11.39. · The coat is 
vision that occurred among the camped at the state line that night; fastened by either snaps or ·hooks 
Swiss Anabaptists, a· Protestant and passed t_hrough Middlebury -the arid eyes,· the .latter being the· more 
Reformation group, from 1693 to next day. · conse:&"ative forms The pockets are 
1697. Three miles south of Goshen, they on the inside o{ the -jacket because 
The Amish founders felt that the settled in· small huts ori the west the Arnish·consider them too decora­
great Reformers :did. not go far side of Elkhart Prairie. Later, they tiv~. ,The pants have no zippers; the 
enough .in reforming the medieval . all bought timberland from which fly is fastened with buttons. They 
church. After a renewal study of the to cut out homes. And thus began cost $7.98 a pair at Gohn Bros. 
Bible they said that infant baptism the Amish community in northern The· denim pants and· jackets, 
was not valid, but that a person Indiana. -which once distinguished the Amish, . . 
should be baptized after confessing Today, according· to Amish min-are dying as symbols of separation. 
his faith; that the church and state ister Yoder, there are nearly 1400 "The Amish are concerned .because 
should be separate, and they wanted Amish families in the 46 Amish local teenagers· are buying::these 
absolute freedom in religious affairs. church districts of northern Indiana. denim -clothes. The kids are buying 
The believer, they said, must not The church districts are located in them because of _this_• back-to~the,.: . 
bear arms, nor swear oaths, but fol-a 30~mile radius of Shipshewana. . earth ,-movement and ,:.they: are· ­
low the peaceful example of Christ The Amish'who moved to Indiana destroying the :uniqueness .,of the 
in all things regardless of the con-followed the Amish rule of separa-clothing," said, Lamar Gohn; the · 
sequences. The Amish founders also tion which is · expressed ·in II Cor-store's owner. . _ 
believed that religion was an indi-inthians _6:14; "Be ye not unequally Gohn is a Jew·, who' became. Lu­
vidual matter and that no Church. yolked together with unbelievers; · theran. ·The 'storeowner _-graduated 
could dispense divine grace'through for what fellowship hath righteous-from the:University of Notre Dame 
its organization or hierarchy. ness with unrighteousness? 'and · in 1947: _He then bought' the ·store 
·-The highest value and the ultimate .what communion hath light with -from his father:and now has· a pros-
goal for. t_he Amish is eternal life. · darkness?'' perous business selling and making 
Like evange,lical _Protestants, the The Amish immigrants also -fol-. clothing for:the Amish., ., , ,--, ·:­
Amish believe in _the supremacy of. · lowed the Old Order rule of reject-For religious services,, Amish men 
SCHOLASTIC 


wear a three-piece black wool suit which has no collar. The suit costs $139.95 at Gohn Bros. . . 
Amish men also wear, black hats as signs pf separation. The hats, which differ . in brim width and crown size, are symbols of one's position in the religious community. Amish ,men also wear straw hats with black· ribbons around the crown. <'We don't make the hats, we buy them from Texas," Gohn 
said. •.. · · Amish women wear plain, single­colored dresses which extend about four inches below the knee. Origi~ nally, the dresses were of dark, dull colors; however, today, women wear dresses of light blue, green and gold material. The dresses are still made at home. "We sell a lot of material to the _Amish women because they make their own dresses," Gohn said. ·. Most . Amish women around Mid­dle6ury wear black shawls or dark, plain coats. However, there are a · few young Amish women who wear 
APRIL 11 1975 
blue rayon jackets with zippers and 
Navy coats with large buttons with 
anchors on them. 
Keeping with tradition, most Amish women continue to wear the Kapp, a small white bonnet: that ties under the _chin. Some of, the ·older women wear large black_ bon­
nets. 
An . obvious feature of an Amish 

man is his beard. When he is bap­
tized, the man grows a beard,· but 
not a . mustache. . Also, the Amish 
man, according to the Ordnung of 
a Christian Church, the statement of 
Amish law, wears his hair at least 
halfway below the tops of his ears, 
with no part or with a part in the 
middle. The Amish woman wears 
her hair pulled back and parted in 
the middle. 
Amish drive black covered bug­

gies, drawn by l}orses, along the 
sides of ·the concrete streets of 
Middlebury. The buggies are sym­
bols of the Amish . rejection . of 
civilization. 
The buggies, which appear to be antiques from nineteenth-century America, are made in a small Amish shop near Shipshewana. Millers Co. has four workers who make nearly 40 carriages a year. The carriage, which takes approximately 40 hours to make, is assembled with hand tools and gas-operated air tools, something the Amish forefathers never had. 
"Our one-seater costs about $850, while our two-seater will run you between· $1100 and $1400. These buggies will last you about 25 years, and we give .a one-year warranty," said Mr. Miller, the shop's owner. 
Though at first glance the buggies may appear to be nineteenth-century antiques, there are signs of imping­ing technology on them. The Amish, who at one time required steel wheels on their buggies, now permit rubber wheels. The buggies also have front and rear lights which are powered by a generator on the back wheels.· The carriage cover is made of soft, synthetic leather and the · front shield is made of black Plexi­glas. The windows are made of the same plastic that is used· for win­dows in convertibles. 
Signs of society are also present on the buggies. Nailed on the back of each buggy is· a large, iridescent triangle .which . reflects in the dark. The safety precaution is required by state law: .Also, each buggy has a green and white Indiana license plate _attached to the rear. _ 
In addition to the technological advances in . buggy building, the Amish also use bicycles. At one time, bicycles were forbidden by the Old Order Amish; however, many young Amish use: them today. 
."Many_ of . the Amish children come to school on bicycles. Some of them have to travel nearly three miles to school each day,'' said Mary, the Amish schoolteacher. 
The. dichotomy of tradition and progress was revealed perfectly as a young Amish woman, dressed in a black bonnet, a . long,. dark dress, black stockings, and a short black coat, rode down a lonely Amish farm road on a black, three-speed bicycle. 
The Old Order Amish did prohibit the use of automobiles. However, in recent years,_ it has become permis~ sible for the Amish to ride in cars. 
"We can use a car if. we really 
( continued on page 27) 

Looking at Art at Notre Dame 
The Arts at Notre. Dame -the American Heritage Dictionary defines art as, "the activity of creating beau­tiful things." This, then is the kind of activity we have attempted to cover in. this issue; the activity of creating
, . -..... 
with color, with sou:nd,-with anything that lends itself to the molding of talent. . · 
We have considered music, from thehighly formal to jazz. _The visual includes art, photography and drama. If we seem to have slighted .writing, well, there is another publication (it shall remain nameless) which is in it­self a testimony to those wiw create with words on this campus. 
Eliot says culture is "that which makes life worth living." Without beauty, without art, Notre· Dame wouul be less of a place than it is, less of a place in which to live. These articles offer a brief glimpse into the cultural 
side at N.D. 


The Festivaf 
and All That Jazz 
Initially, there is the question: With all its different forms, what exactly is jazz? One is tempted to reply in the intellectual manner that jazz is a type of music which evolved · from the blues and depends heavily upon improvisation. The· tempta­tion is quickly .swept aside with the words of one of · jazz's greatest, Louis .Armstrong, "If you have to ask what it is, you'll never know." 
This can be intimidating to many, but it only emphasizes one of the important points of jazz, which Barb Simonds expressed, "You don't have to know jazz to enjoy the music." This is the heart of the music and all will have a chance to enjoy as seventeen jazz bands from all over the country converge on Stepan Center for the seventeenth annual Collegiate Jazz Festival on April 11 and 12 to compete for the festival prize. Barb Simonds is the chair­woman of this year's festival, and according to her, "This is the best . known collegiate jazz festival in the nation." The bands which will· be attending were chosen from forty which sent audition tapes in · the hopes of playing here, assuring that the performances will be the best to be found at the college level. 
A highlight of the festival each year. is -the presence of professional jazz musicians of note who come to judge the performances ·of the var­ious bands. Ken Lee, the man who is coordinating the_ appearances of the judges, says, "this is the larg­est group of judges we have ever had." Hubert Laws, a prominent flutist in his own right who has ac­companied Roberta Flack, . will be there along with drummer Jack DeJohnette, a man who has ap­peared with Miles Davis. Chuck Rainey, bassist, has 1400 albums to his credit in some form or another including some he has put out under his own name; he will certainly be able to judge the bass playing. A· husband and wife combination will be present: Cecil and DeDe Bridge­water. Cecil plays the trumpet and is · a former participant in the CJF; he has played with the Mel .Lewis Band. His wife DeDe is a vocalist · who has sung with, among others, Chic Corea. Of Sonny Rollins, the 
·--------· --·. -.. ·-,....,--~~~~~ .. -----­
last of the judges who will be here, Ken Lee said he "is 'the' tenor sax player in the whole world." 
The judges will arriye on Thurs­day, April 10, for their briefing of how the festival will be run and how their parts fit in; then on Fri­day, from 3 to 5 p.m., the judges will be at the Nazz to answer any questions concerning · their music for the interested public. At 7:30 that -night, the music begins as big bands and combos. from the Uni­versity of Texas, Ohio State, Indi­ana University, Eastman School of Music and many other schools pre­sent their programs. It continues until late in the night and starts again on Saturday afternoon for the second session. ~erything stops for supper and at 7:30 the final session goes into full stride; it will include music . performed by the top two finishers in a regional high .school jazz band contest-to be held in South Bend. that· same day. The jazz will continue through ·the night with the band from ·Eastman being the ·.last college Jand and they_ will continu~ 
..,. ... ---~ 

-~~=·-4_1,.~~---::!-~:; -~--.':f-,.,.~ 
.., 

playing while the judges go out and decide tl~e awarding of the prizes. The decision will be reached ·after due deliberation, and the judges then come out to announce their choice. It will be a prestigious honor for the winner, but it will not be a detriment to the other participants. Ken Lee emphasized that the com­petitive aspect of the CJF is not as important as the fact that these bands: come to play their music for people who like jazz as well as for the judges. , 
Following the awardin·g of prizes, the· judges will ·take over, :each on his own instrument, to demonstrate how the professionals jam. Says Lee, "The jam session should be espe­cially: nice. We have a good vocalist in DeDe Bridgewater, while DeJohn­ette, Rollins and Richard Abrahms have • played together before." (Abrahms plays piano for the Art Ensemble of Chicago ·and is coming only for the jam session.) The jam session continues into morning un­til the musicians_ decide to end it, which will also be the end of this year's festival. 
Barb Simonds gave a few clues of the things to expect at this year's CJF by suggesting, "Go see Jazz at the Nazz and get a feel of the fes­tival." Those who do go will get to see one of Notre Dame's entrants, Erg's Finger Circus, which wm compete along with the Notre Dame Jazz Band. "People figure that col­legiate. jazz bands are not exciting, but once they -get there they find that it is a fine experience,". said Barb. "There are always good sur­prises every year at the festival." 
Both Lee · arid Simonds pointed out that "For six dollars you can go hear 22 hours of music, from Fri­day to Saturday night. This is a unique opportunity for everyone to get to see and hear jazz, and people should be~ experienced if one has the price." They also explained that one need not attend all of the ses­sions, but can attend any one of them for a reduced price'. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival is a tradition on . campus, one which should be experienced .if one has the slightest inclination toward jazz. It may be that many people don't know m_uch about the music, but as Ke~ Lee said, "It's never too late to learn." 
-Jorge Lopez 
Music at ND-­Take Note 

If you've ever seen an ND football game or been to a rally, chances are you've seen the most prominent musical group on campus: the Notre Dame Marching Band. 
And if you spent the early .part of the Christmas . season here last semester, you probably didn't get away without hearing the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
These two groups are probably the most well-trained and famous of the musical organizations on campus. This is not surprising when you con­sider the tradition behind these two groups. But there exist many other such organizations which are not so famous but just as interesting. 
Most recently, Jazz at the Nazz has brought the Notre Dame Jazz Band and Erg's Finger -Circus into contact with the student body. Each of these groups plays on alternat­ing Wednesday nights in the base­ment of La Fortune until midnight. The Jazz is free and well worth the evening if you haven't been ac­quainted with live jazz. • 
If you've already tasted jazz and warit to move on to bigger things, the Orchestra is a sound in­vestment. This year .the Orchestra is directed by Mr. Ralph Lane who could present an interesting pro­gram on music alone but does very well with the Orchestra behind him. Mr; Lane is trying to encourage ap­preciation ·of orchestral music and oftentimes he spices the program with notes ona particular composer or his work. Besides the regular full concert, the semester might include a miniconcert or two which lasts only about an hour and make a great way to relax from a night of studying. 
When the Orchestra isn't playing, there's sure to be a recital of some sort featuring local and national talents in solos and ensembles. It takes a little bit more seriousness to attend a recital for the tone is som­ber. If possible, try an organ or piano recital before moving on to other instruments or ensembles. Re­cital dates are often posted in the halls of O'Shaughnessy and some­times on the doors of Washington Hall. 
Ifvocal music is more interesting to you, we have the .Glee Club, of course, as well as many other vocal ensembles., 
· The Chapel Choir performs Dr. David C. Isele's Masses in Sacred Heart on -Sundays· at 10:15. If·you don't remember what a High Mass was like, try it once. Dr. Isele, who has his Ph.D. in liturgical composi­tion, has written two very interest­ing Masses which are presented at the above time. Sue Henderson Seid 
. is the organist. ·Another specialty group is the polyphonic . choir. · The polyphonic choir concentrates on classical vocal music, of which very little is com­monly heard. Since most of us have no experience with classical vocal, you should attend at least one poly~ . phonic choir concert just to see if you like it. Perhaps the most, rapidly r1:~mg group on campus is .the Chorale. The Chorale presents a program· of general interest featuring many different types of vocal music ar­ranged for mixed voices. The Cho­rale is the kind of large group that you would be most likely acquainted with but if you're expecting some­thing like your high school chorus, · you'll be surprised. There is a great deal of polish. in those voices. By far, the Music Department offers the best deal around in the way of campus entertainment. Most of ·the department's presentations are free and open. Time and place are announced in The Observer, as well· as posted in areas like the Huddle and O'Shaughnessy. -Leo J. Mulcahey 

'fhe Play's the Thi!lg • • • 
·The musical I Do! I Do! was per­formed last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday nights in O'Laughlin's Little Theatre. It was nothing but cliches about marriage from beginning to end -· the nervous inexperienced newlyweds on the first night of their honeymoon, the dreamily . happy first year, the father pacing through his first delivery, . the. house_ covered with diapers· and toys, the battle royal and · near-breakup, the . recons ciliation, marrying.the kids off, the wife's self-doubts as she approaches her change of life, the golden years of retirement 7 they're. all there. With a plot that has been beaten.to death by hundreds of. trashy Holly~ wood melodramas and a . set which is literally covered with hearts, how could we. be expected to take it. seriously? ·well, w_e weren't and that's _why the show was so tremen­dously successfu.L It was pure, un­adulterated cliche; the audience was not asked to believe any thin dis­guise of the· fact, it was· only re­quired to have fun. ·Given the riot­ously funny newlywed scenes, the great feel Scott Wahle and Bridget Ragan showed for their characters, and the _excellent timing through­out the show, the audience had no choice. The singing was good, but not great -it didn't have to be, for the lyrics; the situations and the actors' performances kept the audience well enough entertained that they. didn't need a Streisand level of singing. 
One of the biggest achievements of the show is that, not only was it well done, but it was well done under very difficult . circumstances. I Do! I Do! was not an ND-SMC Theatre production, nor was it an outside company that came in and did it; it was a totally student run show under the direction of Kirk Packo, a senior pre-med student. Kirk is in a course in directing taught at the Drama Department by Reg Bain, department chairman, and I Do! I Do! was officially his final exam. The normal worries of a director such as sets, costumes; audition~, scheduling rehearsals and working on· ·technical effects were compounded with · having to work around his own class time, the ND­SMC · Theatre productions and i the closing of Washington Hall. · When he began· organizing the show, Kirk already had a ' full-time · commit­ment' as a stage manager of Medea, the last-ND-SMC production. As he got further into the show, Kirk had to plan his rehearsals around work on Man ofLa Mancha as his male lead, Scott Wahle, . was·· cast as Sancho Pariza; his stage manager, Dan ·Daily, was cast as Don Quixote, and ,other members of his produc­tion staff were working ori .the show. The dosing · of• Washington Hall 
forced his show and several others to compete .for available space at O'Laughlin, leading to such situa­tions as a final dress rehearsal be­ginning at midnight and ending at 
3:00 a.m; 
Kirk ·is planning on a medical career but wants to continue work­ing with theatre by getting involved in · high school and community theatre productions while ,a doctor. He says that he was "bitten by the theatre bug in high school" and that he grows to love theatre more the more )le does with it. 
In addition to Kirk's I DM r Do!, there are four more full length pro­ductions planned by students in Di­recting II, forming a season of plays under the title "Series 484." Jeff Miller is directing two one:act plays by Harold Pinter;· Landscape and Silence; Janet Wilson, Antigone by Jean Anouilh; Sandy Swartz, her own Vaudeville Memories;· and Dante Orphei, Star Spangled Girl by Neil· Simon. · Two··. other ·students, Sue Dunleavy and· Monica Fortune, are directing children's theatre pro­ductions. 
Dante . Orphei has_ already been accepted into dental school, but like Kirk Packo, plans. to continue his involvement in 'theatre through the community theatre. His selection of Star Spangled Girl was directly re­lated to his plans for the community theatre... He feels that it will give him ' the necessary experience . in light commercially oriented' produc­tions which , he thinks is sometimes lacking in academic theatre. "If aca­demic theatre is to train people for jobs, you have .to give them expe­rience .. in the . commercial type ; of 



-the play. __ --· ories is ari attempt to authentically -Thisillustrates what.Terry likes to_ .. · Both Kirk· and D~nte ·:see the: recreate a 1920's vaudeville show.As-· do in his writing, that is to take 
irig the actors and production staff · normally limited student roles of -Through the ·drama department; 
what·to do· each .step.of the ·way ..._acting_ or produc_tio~ __ crew. Seeking.,· Terry has_arranged:a dramatic read-_ Instead, the 'direci:or~s general" view · -to -· advance his involvement in ing of Pandemonium on May 5 in must be tempered by what the act--theatre, yet retain his iridepend-· Washington Hall. He's doing this· to 
theatre. It's a whole new ball game from Shakespeare." His goal in working with the ·community the­atre is to raise the level of produc­tions and to make it a form of en­tertainment which would be good and inexpensive eriough to offer a serious alternative to television or movies. Star Spmngled, Girl will be .staged April 18 arid 19 at 8:00 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Little_ . Theatre. Dante has many of ·the same _technical problems··~ith scheduling-that Kirk had; most of the rehearsals sci far have been held in whatever_ empty classrooms he could find.· Directing a Neil Simon comedy has its own difficulties; especially in _the· area of characterization.. Simon characters run ·very close to· being stereotypes and it is ;easy to slip into letting a character remll.in · one-dimensional and undeveloped _throughout _the play. As· director, Dante must make 
. " without a-­
vision, . no . amount · of craft can produce art." 

sure. that· the characters are con­
tinuously -developed throughout and.• -She is._a senior: majoring in speech that this development is logicaily education and is interested in 'music consistent with the development of and-dancing. Her Vaudeville Mem~ · 
major responsibility of the director director she doesn't have to worry 
as that of bringing a unifying vision about a continuous development , of 
to the production. :He must have:·a -theme· throughout the show·-but 
·conception of :what he wants the· .. must concerri herself with the effect 
production to accomplish and how ··• and authenticity of each act. -Her 
t6 use technical effects -and actors · show goes on April 27 and 28. . to realize that conception: However;-• Directing isnot the· only way.that. 
this doesn't mean dictatorially tell-· students have moved· beyond the 
ors. and -technical people _bring· to the interpretation; it-must be a col~ laborative effort. Still,-the-· director has the final. word iri all matters; and is responsible for always having 
an overview. of where thej>lay is, 
v.-here the play is going, and for tini­fying all of .the people and elements 
of the prodllction around that over--perimenting with descriptive essays, APRIL 11 1975 
~~r :>•~-~--,---•~,.,._,.,..,..,.:r---·-····-----~---~ 
view. · This view of directing sees the · job as a mixture of being-an artist with a subjective vision. and being a, craftsman organizing people and technical problems. According to Dante, the more experienced the actors_.· and production staff;\ the more the artist side of the director can exert itself. He forsees working 
· in:community theatre with mostly amateur actors and technicians as requiring the director to be very much an_ acting teacher and tech­nical director as well as ·artist. -.· A slightly different side of direct­ing is seen in Sandy Swartz' job of putting together a vaudeville show. 
· ence and P!?rSOIJal autonomy,_ senior ·theatre major -Terry Kennedy has turned -to . playwriting. He feels playwriting to be. both an individual -·-artand a: constructive outlet~or his . 
theatrical imagination.. Terry has 
been \Vriting all his life, starting · with short stories and poetry, ex­values and look at them froi:n differ­ent -perspectives, -both _normal_ and irregular. He also enjoys juxtapos­ing,; contrasting and comparing sit­uations and characters -he doesn't 
like to leave acommon character in a commori situation without playing 
with them. __ · · . . _ . 
evaluate the effect of his drama as a theatrical experience. The depart-· ­ment is equally willing to offer help. 
· and-facilities to any other student who wants his work produced-or 
has a theatricaFproject he would. 
.like to try~ 
__ ,; -Michael D~ Feord • : 

and · then moving· to writing plays. 
Writing for Terry is nothing more 
than the articulation of a· 'vision. 
He· stresses this idea and says that 
without the'. vision, . no amount ·of 
craft can produce art. Because he is 
good at· imagining dramatic situa­
tions and making up· dialogue as in 
improvisational theatre, he says 
that.writing: for· the,'stage comes 
quite naturally for him.· 
His first -play, :Pandemonium, is what he. calls a dramatic medley, and, is concerned in part .with :fun and· cruelty ..;.. situations which are usually viewed as funny but· which can be shown as cruel from a differ­ent viewpoint. :At .the end-· of .the · play, all that is left of what was funny at the beginn_ing is. cruelty. 
The Fieldhouse: 
An Artistic 

Experi_ence 
It was ironic that as Arts Editor of this celebrated publication I had never entered the· fieldhouse,· Notre Dame's "Art Center." The tour of that building taken in preparation for this article. convinced me ·that the fieldhouse is an artistic experi­ence in itself. Imagine a locker room turned gallery, a boxing room turned studio. 
However, this article is not to be about the fieldhouse. It is to con­sider student artists and the show opening April 13 which will exhibit their best work in the University Art Gallery (O'Shaughnessy Hall). The work will be judged· by Mr. Alvin Loving, a New York artist who is presently Notre Dame's artist-in-residence. 

Yet, the fieldhouse and its history as an Art Center speak clearly of the spirit of student artists. The same ingenuity and enthusiasm which started. the "Save-the-field­house" · campaign in 1969 is shown today in the use put to every·nook and cranny of the. building. The most unlikely portions of vacant . space ·become studios and . come alive with the character · of their 
owners. 
The artists at work in the field­
house are not only those among the 
Art Department's approximately 120 
majors. Intro classes -such .as 
Introduction to Studio Art which is 
taught in a n;>0m in the fieldhouse 
called, who knows why, the "po­
etry room".-lure those who are 
on their way to the business and 
the professional world. There is the 
pre-med whose studio juts out ·from 
the wall in a lower sector of the 
building; five years ago there was a 
sociology major named Joe Theis­
mann who had more than a ·casual 
interest in art -and happened to 
play football also. 
Ceramics is a class popular with 
nonmajors and taught in the .main arena. The kilns and·· wheels and worktables rest on planks which elevate them above the dirt floor. The smooth clay is molded, perhaps into a flowerpot for mother, perhaps into something which will spark the creative fire of hidden talent. 


Sculpture class shares the main arena. A bust of ayoung black man _sports a pair _of sunglasses and a cryptic penciled message sneaks from the mouth ·of another. 

The . pictures on these pages give 


,.
.:1 
some sense of the creative chaos I that pervades the fieldhouse. If it is · to the artist to give order to chaos, witness is the work exhibited now in the student show. A trip through the gallery is a viewing ­perhaps -of answers to questions first asked; or first recognized, or finally given expression in a boxing room, or a fencing.room, or a.trans­formed locker. room. The testimony 
t 
is .that the artist needs only his tal~. :I 'I 
ents and a little room ·to move, 
however u n 1 i k e 1 y that space I 
might be. -Katy Sullivan 
I 

The Camera as Art 





It seems incongruous to write about photography, ,a medium geared . to .the printed. page. Rather 

· than tell · you about -student pho­tographers at· Notre Dame we will let -th_eir works teU their story. We regret thaf space has limited us to but a few random selections. 
Th.e Art Gallery: To Delight, To.Instruct 
"For Laymen Only" . is described by Dr. Dean A. Porter, director of the Notre Danie Art Gallery, as "one . of.. the most unusual exhibi~ tions yet conceived by the staff of the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery... I~ is indeed· unusual and, by virtue of its particularity, . capti­vating. The exhibit is designed, more than to d,elight, to instruct­to educate and. familiarize the un­informed laymari with the vocabu-, lary· and. idioms of art. ·The casual peruser of art may" glean from this exhibit .· answers to questions which he or she might otherwise not have thought to ask. · 
Considered by the "For Laymeri Only" exhibit are the techniques· of· the artist as well as the problems encountered by the art historian. The exhibition is entirely the. work of the Art Gallery and two classes_.: 
Professor Joseph Rushton's Tech­nique course and Dr. Porter's Muse­ology (Museum Science and Prac­tice) course. It is divided into three areas: media, multiple images and conservation. 
The media division seeks to illus­trate the various methods of artis­tic practice and their variations, e.g. sculpture, painting, and engraving. This purpose was accomplished by each of _Professor Rushton's stu­dents' picking of an object from the Art Gallery's p·ermanent collection and attempting ,to replicate it in a step-by-step fashion. The· result is a breakdown of the various steps used in creating a work of art. 
The second division, multiple im­ages, deals with the art historical problems surrounding numerous works of art related in some way to one another. These ways might in­clude copying by the original artist or one ·of his contemporaries, forg­ery, two independent artists using a common source or the incorpora­tion of a common motif. into a style or "type" of art. This division of multiple i m a g e s is specifically geared to art historical problems and represents the first time that art his­tory students in the Department of Art have had an.opportunity to ex­hibit their work in the same fashion afforded to art s·tudio majors. 
The final division, conservation, deals with the preservation of works of art and the techniques employed to rescue art objects from the grips of time. Discussion centers around works of art in the Notre Dame Art Gallery permanent·, collection that have undergone restoration and cleaning processes. Again step-by­step breakdown. of procedures will be included, as well as photographic documentation of the various phases of conservation. 
"For Laymen Only" is an out­growth of . Dr. Porter's concept of "Renaissance at ·Notre, Dame.'.' By Renaissance is meant the new focus on the uninformed audience. Porter sees the obligation of a university art gallery as an imperative to pur­sue its audience, to educate them and bring theni to . understand the finer pciints of the world of art. The audience is to be expanded beyond the elite: .the wealthy, the intellec­
tual or the snobbish. ', • ... Something fascinating is offered by "For Laymen Only.'' The under­standing of craft given will, 'rather than destroy the mystery, increase appreciation ,for the. skill of the artist. Simply put, "For Laymen Only'' will tell you-the layman­
things you didn't know you wanted to know, but will be glad. to. have found out. 
"For Laymen Only" opens April 13 at the University bf Notre Dame Art Gallery. 
....:,_Katy Sullivan 


Raffaelino ·del Garb;._Madonna and Child with· John the Baptist: Three Stages of Reconstruction· 

r~:-, . . . . : -·-._··. . ·..-.·. . . 



L~,.. eer~pf!~tive
L.::.., ..-.~-,.. "_"',-,....., ,__ ....~_,,..·_..-~..:........~...--~ --~-~..... -~L _,ss, 


-The· Art Gallery: Keeping Up A Tradition of Fine'.Arts 
If one set out to find an ideal place of employment and the sort of job that would lead·t~-!ulfillment and happiness, it might· be best to st_art the search at one of the na­tion's better universities. It be­comes more and more clear that a university· is a place· where . indi­viduals can gather in community for the sake of i11vestigating the pro­gress and failures of the past, to sort out the present and to plan .the 
f~u~ · · In_ the seventies, the universities seem to be. places of quiet industry and profound inquiry. No longer motivated . by the . extreme techno­logical competition of the fifties and sixties, ·and having achieved a de­gree of .socia_l order and tolerance, there now seems to be more fertile ground for the in-depth· probing for values and the . tranquil setting of goals. This climate seems also to be enkindling ·a riew or renewed inter~ est in the Liberal Arts_:_as if the people 'of the university community now have more time and interest to return to their focus to the beauti­ful. If one set out to find an ideal place of employment within the uni­versity today, it might be found . in some area related to the Fine Arts. The University of. Notre Dame has had a long and rich tradition· in the Fine Arts. It is no accident that this is one of the most beautiful of the campuses in the nation, as it is no · accident that we have one of the finer collections of paintings and sculpture.. ·The collection started over one hundred years ago, when Father Edward Sorin contracted the Italian artist L_uigi Gregori to come to the Indiana wilderness to decor­ate, the new buildings of· Notre Dame. Even then there was a pri­ority to· provide an environment of beauty. The Columbian frescoes in the main building and the paintings of Sacred Heart Church by Gregori's hand were a good beginning in pro­viding quality decoration. Gregori· 
brought with him a small collection of works of art and Father Sorin receive_d gilts from others. Between then and now, the University collec­tion has grown to include more than three thousand works. Benefactors have given us works of great­named artists and works of beauty from the lesser known. The Fisher family, the S. · H. Kress Foundation, The Alsdorf family, Professor Szczesniak, Mr. Fred B. Snite, to name only a few benefactors, have made it possible for · us to be very proud of our .small but gem-studded collection. Boucher, Chagall, Rus­sell, Picasso, Calder, Mestrovic, Sargent, . Durer, Moore, Rouault, Cezanne, Gericault ·and Rembrandt, give ·a random sample. of artists represented in ·the collection. Since the construction · of O'Shaughnessy Hall in 1952, there has been a very fine· gallery for· ~xhibiting the col~ lection, and a regular program for acquisition and study. Art history and art historical research· have come into their own, and through the publication of . many of our works, the collection is gaining some national recognition. With this we are beginning to feel the pinch of our now overcrowded quarters. A student can major in art history, there are courses in museum study and in the future there will probably be an expansion of professional art­related programs. The University Art Gallery is the locus for these programs. It provides . a regular calendar of loan shows brought in from outside ·sources, as well as a careful use, of the permanent col­lection• which ·is hopefully beneficial to the entire learning community. 
Of all _the academic disciplines, one of the newest is that of art his­tory. Separated from studio art by not demanding actual artistic pro­duction, the history of· art is the study of the works of. beauty pro, dticed by man through the ages. ·(The · present chairman of the art 
by Richard J. 'Conyers, C.S.C. 
department often.jokes with the art historians, saying that the artists have to work before the art histor­ians can.) Art history is separated from the traditional area of "pure" history, in that the art historian usually has an object to look at and to work with. It is a more objective, tactile and sensual discipline than most of the others. If the goal of one's life is to find, enjoy and study that which is beautiful and beauty itself, then the art historian is an ideal position. 
We seem, most' of us, to. be in a similar position. Man has the time and interest to afford the luxury of the beautiful. More frequently are individuals -realizing that ·~rt adds a rich dimension to life which is greatly needed and that the beau­tiful can satisfy a deep need to go beyond the routine blandness of daily life. In a real sense, there is salva­tion· in art. It can bring a degree of happiness to a · sensitive person, it can satisfy an age-old · 1onging for quality. As with music, art can settle even the most savage. 
'Here at Notre Dame, we are on the threshold· of something great. w_e have the material to work from and with in· our good collection, we have the sense of priorities as is shown in our history and in the present. There is ample interest from students and faculty and ad-. ministration. There is a need shciwn here and in society in general for all of· us to face up to -the leisure end of the life continuum. _If we are looking for a sort of life in which man can live within a com­munity where beauty and quality of life are primary, if we are look­ing to find how man can find happi­ness and· tranquility, then perhaps we are on the· right track when we realize the role that art has in our society and when we work to insure the acceptance· and understanding of beauty. 
SCHOLASTIC 




People Behi'1d NQ 
,,, ,, -·~-·,),,,... ,-.-. ~ ' "'-' ·...··. ··--~-,~~,-,.~-«-~--~ \'">--~ ...-·....,... .•~ ...... ~ ' --· . __,..,._ 
. . . . 
Stygars Teach Notre Dame to Dance 
Marcia and Christopher Stygar commute from Indianapolis to South Bend every Tuesday and Thursday. While here they teach courses in ballet under the auspices of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Speech and Drama Department. The rest of the week they dance with the Indi­anapolis Ballet Theatre. Their present situation may or may not sot,ind worthy of using as a script for a Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers· movie spectacular; but you must 
consider what went beforehand. 
In 1966 Marcia Mauer, who had been dancing since she was a child, graduated from Butler University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Dance. The next fall she was teaching at Ball· State University where·sophomore Christopher Styg­ar was studying English. That same semester ·· Chris Stygar decided to indulge an interest in dance by en­rolling in a course in ballet. His first dancing teacher just happened to be Marcia Mauer. His interest in ballet and Marcia both .grew from that point, and they were married . in 
1967. ­
The year 1969 . found them · in Utah, Marcia having been hired by the Ballet West, U.S.A., and Chris obtaining his English degree at the University of Utah. English, how­ever, was not the only thing he was studying. Chris had advanced so far in his few years study of ballet that Ballet West gave him a scholarship at the University for him to join them as· an apprentice. After his graduation in 1970, Chris, too, be­came a full member of the com­pany. For_the next three years, un­der the direction of William F. Christiansen, they toured all over the U.S. and through six European countries. 
At this point they should have danced into the sunset, but, in 1973, Marcia injµred her . foot in an acci­dent and· the doctors said she would never dance again. For six · months 
APRIL 11 1975 
Marcia stayed at home recovering from her operation and. caring for their young son while Chris con­tinued to tour with Ballet West. However, the long periods of separa­tion and the hardships involved forced Chris to leave the company. A stint as manager of the photo de­partment at a · Montgomery Wards store was followed by his being . hired as coordinator of the Dance program at Ball State. During this time, Marcia worked to recover her 
have had the. previous training and can be pushed harder than beginners can. Next year they .hope to offer a fourth course for advanced dancers. Such a class, they feel, could become the nucleus of a dance ensemble which could either perform on· their 
own or be used for dance scenes in drama ·department· 'productions:• 
. Chris. would· also like· to· see·.a full dance department offering a degree in dance. He stresses the advant~ ages of professional dancer's train-

strength and dancing ability, and achieved what could only be called a fantastic recovery. Now she is not 
.. quite as strong as he was before, nor does she ever expect to be, but she is nonetheless an excellent dancer once again. 
When they were dancing· again and working with the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre, Chris heard that Notre Dame had a position open for a dance instructor.· He wrote · to William J. Cerny, chairman of the 
. music department, and inquired about it. Cerny gave his letter to Dr. Reginald Bain of Speech and Drama. Bain contacted the Stygars and hired them to begin a dance program here. 
They now teach three courses in ballet: a beginners' level course, a course for those coming out of the first beginners' course, and an in­termediate course for those who 
ing through university· programs 
rather thari training totally through 
apprenticeship with· · professional 
companies. Dancers training in a 
university program have a greater 
chance to study and· understand the 
background of their act. They can 
study the theatre, graphic arts and 
music, which are all crucial ele~ 
ments of dance; ·Dancers training 
through companies ·have less. oppor­
tunity to study these fields and have 
more emphasis put • solely on their 
dancing. University programs must, 
however, be careful to maintain a .high quality of dance instruction. 
Fred Astaire· and Ginger Rogers 
might have more. spectacular end­
ings to their · stories than ending · up 
at Notre Dame,-but Chris Stygar 
and Marcia Mauer aren't by any 
means finished yet. 
-Michael D. Feord 
/

Respect for Life: I ' A Pniversity Perspective 
Life is really a rather ama_zing thing, particularly human life. Peo­ple go to sleep each night. and wake up each.morning; they laugh; ·they cry; they catch cold; have children; write sonnets;, eat dinner; watch TV. They grow old; some grow wise. 

The opportunity ·to experience this life· .has long been a value man has regarded highly and guarded· care-· fully. The instinct for survival is one of the .strongest of human drives. Few· men seek death voluntarily; most, when driven to it, find .via-'. lence there~ 
Yet mere existence is rarely suffi­cient for human· happiness. Man is a complex· beast which interacts with his environment, changing and creat:. ing it. He musteat, wear clothes, be warm. He must marvel at stars,· weave ·bright, fragile structures of . glass, spin delicate tales. He.. must find beauty. 
The question of life and .the quality of life should be a fundamental con­cern of all 'f)eople, especially of those who have assuaged their most im­mediate needs. Fr_. Hesburgh, in his sermon at the Hunger Mass, spoke of the necessity for a broad, Christian perspective, a _responsibility encom­passing all of. human existence. · 
The following/our articles address various aspects of this responsibility. They are by members of the Univer­sity;.individuals actively involved in questioning and evaluating what can and is being done to improve the human condition. They are for the most part not objective reports, but 

[! subjective, personal statements. They 
ii are individual responses to universal problems. 
ii 
i Ii 

i 
II I 
16 
SCHOLASTIC 

I 
i 
Meeting a Fundamental 
Need-to Eat 
( Julian Pleasants is an associate professor in .Micromology.J 
Prof. Ronald Weber, of American Studies, has told me oi ·an unex­pected turn take_n by a shipboard discussion of violence in America. The boat on which he was return­ing from Portugal was carrying many young Europeans to America; for visits or study. The American professors who happened· to_ be on board organized a "course" on A­merica .to prepare the young people for life here. The seminar they sche­duled on violence had concentrated on the usual thingsfor which Ameri~ ca is notorious elsewhere, physically violent murders,· rapes, robberies, shoot-outs. There was even some at­tempt to put'these in a kind of his­torical, perspective -that all this anti-individual violence, if added up from the beginning of American his~ tory, wouldn't fiff Stalin's cemeteries or Hitler's gas ovens. But in a spon­taneous and almost simultaneous reaction, the students began to pro­test that that wasn't all they meant by violence. They found themselves in agreement that violence is also the failure to m,eet human needs, On that basis, America looks less bad for its.crime in the street than for its systematic exclusion of races and classes from ari adequate share of the opulence of America. 
But· even the poorest in America have their elemental needs met more adequately than hundreds of mil­lions in developing countries. Mal­nutrition in America is a result of pockets of poverty, not a result of food shortage. In the lower half· of the Northern Hemisphere, however, catastrophic we a the r conditions have added outright famine to the ch r o n i c undernutrition th ere. Drought and. flood have wiped out the gains these countries were mak­ing in catching up with their food needs. Nature's violence has shat­tered the dreams of self-sufficiency generated by the Green Revolution. 
Even if the overall trend is toward greater self-sufficiency, nature's vio­lence can be counted on to · cause periodic, catastrophic reversals of that trend. 
America, Canada, Australia, the great grain-producing regions of the world, are in a position to meet both needs of the developing countries, to_ help them continue the overall trend toward self-sufficiency through improved · agriculture, storage . and transportation, and to help them in times of overwhelming famines with exports of food. But· America seems to be in a crisis of indecision as to what to do. Formerly there was an 

American grain surplus ' to • draw from in times of famine. America itself benefited from shipping grain to hungry people. Now, that grain surplus has evaporated, burned up in the metabolic . mills of meat­producing animals, which give us back less than a third of the food we put into them. Since World War II we have doubled our consumption of beef and tripled our consumption of poultry, and when we still had a surplus, we shipped it to countries like England or Russia, who wanted it largely for their own livestock. 
To re-create ·a. surplus for meet­ing human needs, we must withdraw grain from our customers in the developed countries or from our own livestock. We have to reverse trends in our own life-style as well as in 
·by Julian Pleasants 

our governmental policies about overseas grain deals. Both changes are essential to insure that grain will be available and· that it will meet human needs. 
More is unquestionably demanded of us than was demanded of our parents. We have to make a far more personal as well as institution­al effort to meet others' needs. And we are paralyzed by indecision. Won't we ourselves· suffer from re­versing our trend toward greater consumption of meat? Isn't our high protein diet the secret of our.health and vigor? Are we obliged to dimin­ish our health in order to . save others' lives?'Even if we were will­ing to do it individually, can we make it a matter of national policy? 
The other·source of our indecision ls the other source of the food crisis "-'-the exploding population of 'the developing countries. The immediate cause of starvation is catastrophic drought and floods, and the fact that the people whose crops failed are also too .poor .to compete for grain with the livestock of the de­veloped countries. The trend in the early 70's had been for grain pro­duction to outstrip p op u 1 a t i o n growth. The 30-million~ton world in­crease in grain production from '70­'73 more than made .up for the 22 million tons required to . keep pace with population· growth. The other 8 million tons went largely. into the. exploding livestock population; But when natural disaster strikes, the balance between food and popu­lation is seen to be too precarious. Continued growth for the develop­
. ing countries' populations. at the present rates could outstrip their feasible increases in food production and ours also_. The present famine represents an early warning of. far worse fam_ines possible in the future as population increases, and more and more. marginal land has to be brought into production by more and more precarious techniques. 
APRIL 11 1975 
If we feed the people starving now in the developing countries, won't we be deluding them into thinking they can go on multiplying indefinitely at the present rate? Won't we just be setting them up for a worse catastrophe 10 or 20 years from now when their much greater populations are devastated by some new outbreak of nature's violence and all _our potential re­serves are gone? If we feed them now, won't we be taking-away their only incentive for an -absolutely essential move toward family lim­itation? 
The answer to both kinds of 
· questions is NO. We have been para­lyzed in our decision-making by two false dilemmas. To provide more food for starving people we do not have to give up what is good for our own health; we only have to give up what is bad .for our own health, our excessively high intake of· meat. And providing food for starving people now does not . take away their incentive··for -practicing 
· family limitation, but helps to pro­vide the only proven incentive for practicing • family limitation -a sense of security. which is not based on having a large family but on na­tional and · international . commit­ments to the security of the.world's ~eople.. 
Our overemphasis on ineat, milk and eggs ·in the American diet re­sults from a combination of rapidly expanding ·affluence, the great taste of· animal protein, and an overem­phasis on animal protein in nutri­tion education. The ready availabil­ity of·meat, milk and eggs has done wonders for the growth and develop­ment of our children. That is the great triumph of• Western nutrition. It· is reflected in amazing increases in height and rate of-development from one generation to the next. But we assumed that what's good for children is good for adults. We've had to learn the hard way that this was a mistake. Small children need 2½ t!mes the proportion of pro­tein in their diet that we do, and nearly half their protein intake needs to corisist of essential amino acids, which are most concentrated in animal protein. Adults not only need a much smaller proportion of protein, but only 20% of it needs to consist of · essential amino· acids. 
Any diet which is predominantly grain products_ will provide all the protein a healthy adult needs. Fur­thermore, it will do this without add­ing all the saturated fat and choles­terol which are an integral part of· the animal protein package and an integral part of our high incidence of premature heart disease and strokes. And grain adds fiber to the diet, which also helps to prevent heart disease as wen as digestive ailments. The only situation in which grain diets fail to meet pro­tein needs of adults is when they are diluted out too far by empty calories .like sugar and refined fat (which make up 1/3 of the Ameri­can diet) or by starch foods like cassava (tapioca) and bananas in tropical countries. But even here, there need be no problem if the diet includes bean-type foods, which are high in protein and help to make grain proteins more nutritious. I know of no· study which shows any benefit. from eating a higher pro­tein diet than we need. If you feel better from eating a high protein breakfast, it is only because you eat more total food and less sweets, not because there is any special value from burning up protein in place of starch. 
Our mistake of trying to live ori · baby food all our lives is both the cause of our own ill health in later life and a ·major cause of that graii:t shortage which is allowing thou­sands to die every day in famine­stricken areas. We are iiot forced to choose between our health and theirs. We are only forced to choose betwe_en our excessively ca·rnivorous habits,'. with consequent bad health here and abroad, or a change in life­style that improves health both here and abroad. A mere 10% reduction in our _meat intake would free enough grain .for 62,000,000 people. Since we are already eating twice as much protein as adults need, and many times more 'meat, a 10% re­duction is the very least we should consider. For practical suggestions on alternate diets, ask for the World Hunger Coalition leaflet on this sub­ject, or read Diet for a Small Planet, a · paperback by Frances · Moore 


Lappe. 
I don't say there will never be a 
dilemma in which. we face the choice 
of reducing our health in order to 
prevent others' starvation. If we do, 
I will have to make an agonizing 
reappraisal. But right now, there is 
rio such choice required. Whether it 

might be required depends on the · outcome of that other dilemma. 
The falseness of the other dilem­
ma· is not so easy to_ see. As a 
microbiologist, working , day to day 

with explosive populations, I have 
not only a healthy respect for the 
power of exponential growth; I 
have a genuine fear of it. I. don't 
believe that parents have a natural 
right to have large families _irre­
spective of circumstances. Biologi­
cally speaking, having a l~rge fam­
ily is one of the most aggressive 
things people can do, and in some 
sense of the term, and· in some cir­
cumstances, could .be: considered a 
form_ of violence. I have a strong 
resentment of the way parents in 

_the developing countries have large 
families for the sake of their own 
security, without regard for what it does to their own country. But when we realize why they do it, we will see that letting people starve is the worst way to change the attitude 

Bringing Light of their fellow countrymen. 
In 'an agrarian, labor-intensive economy, children can actually pro-
to Dark Lives 
. duce more _than they consume, and be a net economic gain to. their parents while they live at home. In a society. without social security or welfare system, having a large fam­ily is the parents' sole assurance of being cared for in old age or sick­ness. The more insecure and uncer­tain life. appears,: the more impor­tant it is ·to .have a large· family. Letting people starve to teach the others ~ lesson teaches them exactly the wrong lesson. It teaches them to rely even more . on having many children in hopes that at least one of•. them .may have some resources to help the o~!J,ers in. time of trou­ble. Only by giving people hope that their needs will be met by the larger community can we change their at­titude in the direction of family 
limitation and concern for the larger 
community. This means that we feed 
them in time of catastrophe, help 
them ·develop ·their agricultural.. po~ 
tential so that they can feed them­
selves, and let them go socialist 
whenever they are ready to do. it. 
No matter how resentful we feel about the reproductive rate of the developing countries, the fact is that feeding them and helping them de­velop·· is an essential part of the · · overall strategy of bringing down population growth rates. It is the 
only way;we know of. 
-So the 'second dilemma is false also. We are not faced with the sup­position that · stopping famine now will only set things up for a. ~ors~ famine in the future. There will in_. deed be future }amines;· arid ·maybe bigger ones, but none so bad as those that will develop if we don't turn off the population explosion .bY the one means we've known to work ­giving people security. 
Stopping famine now is · exactly what we should be doing. to save. the people who are starving, to im-. prove our own health, and to lay the basis for a .reduction in family size which will prevent future famines. The oniy real dilemma is -do we have the guts to.do it, or. don't we? 
( continued on page 26) 

APRIL 11. 1975 
· (Fr. Tom Stella is theDirector of Volunteer Srvices and an assistant rector in Dillon Hall.) 
The story is told about a rabbi who, in attempting to bring his disciples to greater understanding of the purpose of life, asked the ques­tion, "When is it that'one knows that night is ending and the day is close at. hand?". "Could it be," answered one, "when ·we see a tree in the dis­tance a.nd can tell whether it is a fig or a peach?". "No," the rabbi answered, · "your answer is incor~ rect."· i'Could it be, master, when we can see·an animal afar off and know whether it is a sheep or a dog?" 

asked the. other disciple. Again the rabbi responded negatively. "Tell us then," ·. the others begged, "the answer to your question;" · 
· "One can know that the ·night is ending and day is at hand when he can look irito the eyes of any man · or woman · arid see there a brother and a sister. H one cannot do' this, then it is night no matter what the hour/'· 
Respecting the life· and person of others requires that we ·see them as closely · related to ourselves, · and treat them accordingly. We must recognize that our responsibility to 
by Fr. Tom Stella 

one another stems not from man­made rule, or merely as a means to effect a harmonious· coexistence; The respect we owe others; and de­serve ourselves is the result of our being sons• and daughters of. the same Father. · 
If. the rabbi in our story were to come to South Bend, and to the campus of Notre Dame·. and St. Mary's · would he find a place .of darkness or light? Would. he dis­cover. here persons who see and re­spond to each other as would . a brother and sister, or . would he grope about in a darkness that be­trayed our failure to look know­ingly on our neighbor? · 
I .address myself to the matter of respect,for life from a community service perspective. As the • director of volunteer· services, I am in con_. 
. · tact with that segment . of the. stu­dent body that actively responds to . the needs of others both on and off campus. · Mine· is a biased view, for apathy is certainly present here, and perhaps pre~alent, but I know there to be many students who kriow with painfui clarity the bond that ties us to one another, and the responsibil­ity that that entails. Iri a society as production-ori­ented · as ours, there is a need to respect the lives of those whose . major contribution. ~o society may have already been off~red. The el­derly, a long neglected element of the ··population, ·are the focus of much student involvement.' CAUSE (Coordinating· Activities : 'Uniting Students and the Elderly), CILA, students from Grace,. Breen-Phillips, and Badin Halls are ·attempting to respect and ·resporid to the needs of the aged in South Bend, as are stu~ dents in the Theology and Com­munity Service course, and other in­terested individuals. · 
Nursing homes are the scene of the encounters with elderly persons. It is in these sometimes dismal set­tings that their loneliness is shared, and .their wisdom imparted. Some students visit the homes of those fortunate enough to"live in one, while others spend tim~-in one of several neighborhood centers serv­ing hot lunches, and participating in recreational and social events. 
"Night is ending and day . is -at hand" for the many retarded child­ren whose lives unfold at Logan Center and Northern Indiana State Hospital and Developmental Dis­abilities Center (better known as the Children's Hospital). Retardation, even more than race or· creed, has resulted in ridicule and segregation from the "normal" segment of· so­ciety-a grave injustice to those in­dividuals whose growth has been altered, but is rarely devoid of the possibility of development. 
Through the efforts of our stu­dents, these children are experienc­ing gains in motor and learning skills· and, more importantly, they are the recipients of sincere caring­a catalyst for growth in any person. 
As with all service activity, the giver always receives more than the one given to. Night is .ending not just for the retarded children, but for the volunteers as well. Many students come away from their ex­perience wondering who is retarded, the children who seem so uninhib­ited in their expression of emotion and need to ·be loved, or themselves, so conscious of, and imprisoned by what others think of them. 
Education is an indispensable tool at. this point in man's. history. To ~eny or discourage the, opportunity for it would not be just; to encour­age and enhance it is to respect the right of the individual to full par­ticipation in. a complex and sophis~ ticated. world. 
A large number of our students take part in programs designed to help those experiencing learning difficulties. The Neighborhood Study Help Program buses over two-hund­red students weekly into grade and junior high schools in the area. Up­ward Bound utilizes tutors to better prepare high school students from disadvantaged backgrounds for en­trance into college. Project Head­start benefits from the assistance of ND-SMC students as it helps pre­school youngsters learn good health and grooming habits and introduces them to a classroom setting at ·an early age. Sr. Marita's School and El Campito Day Care Center (staffed and life style of the South Bend poor that Notre Dame·:students in busi-. ness-related majors are volunteering 

in the annual Tax Assistance Pro­gram. Persons wi_th ari income of less than $10,000 are eligible for this free service 'which has helped many families save unnecessary tax pay­
ments. 
I could comment further on such groups and projects as Big Brother/ Big Sister, SHARE (a peer counsel­ing program at SMC), legal aid, Hotline, Halfway House (for emo­tionally disturbed adults), INPIRG, and the work being done with the bail bond system by members of the Program in Non-Violence. All of 

by CILA · volunle;ers) are examples of other programs through which our students attempt to guide youth in the primary stages of learning. 
. Some ·of these programs wou_ld collapse, others would be greatly crippled if our students were to n_o longer · be involved in them. The picture would certainly be darker for the youth of South Bend but for the, recognition on the part of ND­SMC volunteers that these children are, in fact, their brothers .and sis­ters. 
At a time when the economy is in such disarray, assisting the poor in the handling of monetary matters is no insignificant thing. It is with a great deal of concern. for the life these are means through .which stu­

dents are reaching out to the needy. · · 
What all of this says is that there 

are forms of injustice and oppression 
at our doorstep,-but "the day is close 
at hand." There are ways in which 
our own. brothers and sisters are 
subtly robbed of the opportunity to 
live life fuily, but there: are a sig~ 
nificant number of students who re­
spect the lives ·of these people 
enough to. move beyond the narrow 
confines . of the campus . to serve 
them, _thus hastening the day, and 
• lending validity to the words that Jesus spoke to his_ disciples: "you are the light of the world,'' · (Mt. 
5:14)_.' . . 
Respecting the Unborn's Right to Life 
(Charles E. Rice is a professor in the Notre Dame Law School.) · 
On March 19-21, 1975, the Univer­sity of Notre Dame sponsored a con­ference on "Abortion: Public Policy and Morality." A "closed" scholarly conference, it was sponsored by the University's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. The welcoming remarks were given by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Provost of the University. Accord-. ing to the conference program, it aimed at promoting "communication among experts with potentially dif­fering normative commitments" and it recognized the "necessity for intel­ligent and effective discussion among scholars with widely different views on the subject." The speakers and participants therefore included advo­cates of legalized, permissive abor­tion, such as Christopher Tietzo, M.D., of the Population Council, Har­riet Pilpel, attorney for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., and others, as well as abortion opponents such as Dean Thomas L. Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School, Ghicago attorney Dennis Horan and others. I was invited to take part in the conference but de­clined and, at my request, my name was removed from the list of par­ticipants. 
This conference prompts us to re­flect on the position that ought to be .taken with respect to abortion by a university that claims .the name Catholic. 
The Supreme Court abortion deci­sions hav~ ushered in the greatest slaughter of innocent human beings in any nation in the history ·of the world. Under those rulings, abortion cannot be forbidden until the last trimester and even· then it cannot be forbidden: if it is• performed for the physical or mental health of the mother. The decisions are, in effect, a license for elective abortion at any 
APRIL 11 1975 
stage of the pregnancy, right up to the moment of normal delivery. 
In 1857, in the Dred Scott case, the Supreme Court held that the free descendants of slaves .could not be citizens and said that.slaves were not even persons. The 1973 abortion rul­ings . did exactly the. same thing to the child in the womb. And if the child in the womb can be defined as a nonperson, so can his grandmother. If an innocent human being can be defined as a nonperson because he is too young, that is, he has not lived nine months from his conception, there is no reason in . principle why he cannot be defined as a nonperson because he ·is too old. Or too re­tarded. Or too black..Or. too: polit­ically undesirable. 

In various corporate ways, the University of Notre Dame has taken a firm stand in favor of the full im­plementation of civil rights for racial minorities. For instance, the Univer­sity in 1973 launched a joint effort with Associates Corporation of North America to promote minority par­ticipation in small bus.iness. Also, the. establishment of the Center for Civil Rights ·at the University demon­strates the University's institutional commitment to racial justice. Yet, the most important civil right is the right to · live. The most important civil rights issue is abortion. It is interesting to note that these issues are joined in another way, in that 
by Charles E. Rice ­

abortion is widely· seen as a device to solve the welfare problem by re­stricting the births of minority group children. 
If the University had not taken a stand on any civil rights issue; it could be argued that it would be in­appropriate for it to take a stand on abortion. But the University, as ·an institution, has spoken· in· support of racial civil rights. Its contrasting silence with respect to the mass de­privation of the most fundamental · civil right can fairly be interpreted as an indefensible corporate ·.suspen­sion of judgment on the subject of legalized baby killing. 
One caution is needed. My critical comments here relate only to the prudential judgment of those who initiated this coriference. I do not 
·imply at all that they are personally favorable to abortiori. Father Hes­burgh included an eloquent and strong defense of the unborn child's civil right to· live in his recent book, The Humane Imperative. He de­livered the sermon at the Univer­sity's Mass this year on the anni­versary of the Supreme Court abor­tion decisions. Both Father Burt­chaell and Father Hesburgh have am­ply and strongly demonstrated their personal commitment to the.right to live. My criticism of their allowance of this conference does not at all im­ply that their personal convictions on abortion are subject to criticism in any respect . 
Recently, there were indications that perhaps the University was awakening to its responsibility to take a corporate position that abor­tion is wrong just as it has taken a corporate. position that racial dis­crimination is wrong. During Janu­ary, 1975, the University included a legend, "Respect Life at Every Stage" on its postage meters. Its ad­ministrators have spoken as individ­uals in defense of .the right to live. These and other signs gave hope that perhaps the University was moving 
in the direction of making the same 
corporate commitment to the civil 
right to live as it has made to the 
civil rights of racial minorities. The 
Trustees, however, have been silent 
on abortion. And now the University 
has sponsored this "closed scholarly 
conference" on abortion. 
There are two basic reasons why 
the holding of this conference was a 
mistake. First, by hosting the con­
ference with its debates and discus­
sions, the University implicitly but 
unmistakably affirms,,that there· is 
something disputable a'b~ abortion, 
that is, that something can legiti­
mately be said in favor of the legal­
ized killing of babies. But to affirm 

that legalized permissive abortion is · debatably legitimate is . indefensible for a university that claims the name Catholic. It involves. an im­plicit suspension of judgment on a question, the answer to which is known with final certainty through reason as well as through the teach­ing of the Church. 
The second reason why the .holds 

ing of the conference was. a mistake is that it will enable the proponents of abortion to use the fact that Notre Dame gave their position a respect­able platform· to confuse the unin­formed and . undercut the efforts of those who advocate the right to live. It seems fair to say that the lJniver­sity is laying itself open to possible · exploitation by those who will use the conference.to gain respectability 
for their antilife positions. 
We are, of course, not talking 
about the practical necessity of pro­
life advocates debating the question 
to secure the passage of a constitu­
tional amendment to prohibit abor­
tion. Rather, we are talking about 
the sponsorship of scholarly debates 
and conferences on abortion by a uni­
versity that claims the name Catho­
lic. 
There are some_ apologists-for the 
University's position who say that 
the abortion issue has to be regarded 
as legitimately disputable because it 
is in fact disputed. But a subject is 
legitimately debatable only if some" 
thing . can legitimately be said for 
both ·sides. What the University said 
by its sponsorship of this conference 
is that something may legitimately 
be said in favor of killing babies in 
the womb. Necessarily, it would have 
to take the same position with re­
spect to the recent suggestion of Dr. 
Watson, the Nobel Prize winner, that life should legally begin three days after birth so as to_ give the parents an option to rid themselves of an un­desirable child. And it would. have to take the same position with respect to the direct euthanasia of the child's grandmother against her will. 

Qn the contrary, for a subject to be legitimately debatable the opinions must not only be held but also it must appear that the subject is at least arguably open to reasonable dif­ferences of opinion among men of good will. It is disappointing that the administrators of Notre Dame con­sider legalized baby killing to· be in this category. · The· University of Notre Dame strongly proclaims itself to be a Catholic university. But as such it must corporately know that legalized abortion is wrong and can never be right. As the Sacred Con­gregation ·for the· Doctrine of the Faith recently stated in its Declara­tion on·· Procured Abortion,· which was ratified· by Pope Paul VI, the teaching on abortion is "a constant teaching ·of ·the · supreme Magis­terium; · which teaches moral norms in the light of faith. It is· therefore clear that _this Declaration neces~ sarily entails a grave obligation for 
· Christian consciences." "The first right of the human person," con­tinued the Declaration, "is his life. ... He~ce it must be protected above 
. all others. It does not belong to so­ciety, nor does it belong to public . authority in any form to recognize thi.s .right for some and not for others; . all discrimination is evil, whether it be founded on race, sex, colour or religion..·'. . This right ... demands recognition and it is strictly 

. unjust to refuse it." The administra­tors of the University know that. And the University, as a. Catholic university, knows it in its institu­tional capacity. For the University, which has spoken in support of civil rights for racial minorities, to affirm that it is incapable of perceiving and proclaiming the absolute evil of le­galized baby ~Hling is for_ it to de" clare in. this respect its· intellectual bankruptcy.· The problem · is com­pounded because the University ac­tively. and clearly proclaims its Cath­olicity when soliciting funds from its alumni. Yet in the matter of abor­tion the· University shrinks from an appropriate exemplification of that asserted Catholicity. 
Some will say that we should de" bate abortion with its proponents to learn how they think, that this im­plies no concession of legitimacy for their views and that it may offer an opportunitrto persuade them. It is said that perhaps the Nazi extermi­nation of the Jews could have been averted had its proponents and oppo­nents been brought together to dis­cuss calmly the pros and cons of. the extermination. But the contrary is the. fact. 1:he Nazi. euthanasia pro­gram did not spring out of thin air. Rather it was facilitated by the jurisprudential ascendancy in the 1920's of utilitarian .and positivist 

'\.· ~\. . .. 
concepts, including among others the 
· ideas of Ernst Haeckel and the ideas in the' 1920 book, The Re"lease of the Destruction of Li/e Devoid of Value, by Karl Binding and Alfred Roche. By the time Hitler_ came 'to power, the legal.and medical profes­sions had_ come to regard· eugenic sterilization, abortion and infanticide. as legitimately debatable.• Eugenic sterilizations began in 1934, eugenic abortions in 1935, and the euthanasia program in 1939. At all stages, the proper response of those who valued the right to life was, not. academic discussion, but denunciation and ex­posure of the horrors of the . pro­grams. As Michael R. LaChat points . out in· the February, 1975, Linacre Quarterly, the euthanasia operations were terminated within Germany in 1941 because of widespread public 
SCHOLASTIC 


protests. -And it is interesting that Rev. Robert A. Graham, S.J., now 
Living A Daily
contends. that Hitler would never have started the• euthanasia cam­paign had he not been assured by 
Com111itment to Peace·
a_ Catholic theologian, Prof.· Josef 
Meyer, that the Catholic Church would not object to the program. New York Times, March 25, 1975, 
p. 14, col. 6:) Meyer, of course, was wrong and the Church opposed the program. But the script is familiar. We have. too many Catholic theolo­gians and publicists today who mini­mize the _evil of abortion. I suspect that their assumption .of an air of scholarly detachment in the face of the absolute evil of abortion tends to encourage those who perpetuate the evil. 
_In short, the needed response to Jew-killing was never a scholarly debate. Rational men did not need 30 seconds to perceive the unalter~ able; evil· of the extermination pro~ grain. So. it~ is· with_ abortion._ Un­happily, however, the University. of No_tre Dame sins herein by omission. The University could exert great leadership here for truth and life. Instead,;it has seen the problem and it has corporately bugged out. 
-The most regrettable feature of its sponsorship of this conference is that it signals the forfeiture by the Uni­versity of an important· leadership opportunity. The University of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, could do much to advance the civil right to live as it has advanced .the civH rights·o~ racial minorities. Thetimes call for witness, an affirmation that all innocent human beings have: an indisputable, God-given right to live. Regrettably,. the_ University of Notre Dame implicitly affirms instead that on this issue its -corporate mind is open at both ends and that it is in­capable. of apprehending and institu­tionally proclaiming the simple.truth. that legalized baby killing is· irre­vocably and indisputably wron·g. The problem arises not from any personal sympathy of -the University. officers for abortion. Far from it. -Rather it springs from an overextension of the boundaries of legitimate debate. 
. I respectfully request the adminis­trators of Notre Dame to reconsider the ambivalent position in which they hav~· placed the JJriiversity. We are entitled to hope_ that the· future policy of the University_ iri'.this mat~ ter will be different. . . 
APRIL lL1975 
(Basil O'Leary· is a professor in the economics department and the director of the Program on Non­Violence.) 
America's respect for life is fin­icky, I think. Newspaper headlines and'·_ pictures tell of hundreds of orphans being flown to the U.S., American families clamoring to adopt or help them in some way, lawyers _and doctors volunteering their services. This sudden exodus of the. homeless is· likeiy explained by the anticipated_ ferocity of the Viet 
. Cong,· the wave of Ai:nerican -sym­pathy by our characteristic gener­osity in crisis situations. From the data, however, that Al Sondej has been soberly reciting for us we know that_ some 2300 . people. are dying every hour from starvation or .mal­nutrition, _ffiost of them -children; that the U.S. ranks fourteenth among the nations of the world in non-mili­tary assistance to ·developing coun­tries as a percentage of. gross na­tional product. · · 
I suppose most 'of us would find it abhorrent that an adult would push infarits outof a rescue plane to lessen 
· the load and insure the trip to sanc­tuary. Yet, morally speaking, whether we push .the children to their deaths or fail to feed. them when it is in our power to do so, it is pretty much the same. The degree of guilt is a bit more complicated question when we 
by Basil O'Leary 

distinguish the diverse states of con­sciousness that acconip'any these acts, but that cannot be analyzed here. 
it was the direct, overt violence of the war in Southeast Asia that oc­casioned• the founding _of the Pro­gram in Non-Violence in the spring of 1969. In response to earlier -ap­peals by Fr. Hesburgh for sugges-. tions on how to cope with violence, some thirty-eight studl;!nts proposed an approach that would be uniquely concerned with non-violence as a way of resolving•· conflict. · Today, while the program continues to be informed by non-violence as· a style of living and a strategythat excludes violence from its available options, its attention is directed more to what writers in the field of peace research call · "institutional violence." When certain groups of people are system­
. atically if · not deliberately, ·ex~ ploited by the way institutions, such as markets~arid · governments, oper­ate, it is these societal and cultural "structures" that are the immediate . instruments of harm and death. Were we to burn up ·infants with napalm in Bangladesh, as we did in Vietnam, or fail to fashion adequate relief pro­
-grams for starving infants there, the effects on the victims are ultimately the same. Violence can become insti­tutionalized when blacks, women, students,. the-poor, -for example, are denied the opportunities for full d~ velopment of their potentialities. 
Non-violence, then, remains the same; its concerns have changed. The literature of the . n~ld, the courses and· activities at Notre Dame include greater emphasis on the al­leged weaknesses of capitalism, for example. Romantic love, a" violent passion indeed, · is examined through literature from Euripides to· Erica 
. Jong. And, of course, there is hunger. An -analysis• of __ the program reveals its basic thrust ·and enduring legiti­macy. 
Understanding the Program -its possibilities • and. procedures -may be helped by looking at it as a musi­
cal composition of sorts, even a 
symphony. A first question about 
great music is: why do some sym­
phonies endure through the cen­
turies? Beyond technical compe­
tence, what is there about theni that 
causes cultured listeners to enjoy 
them over and over and pass this en­
thusiasm on to future generations? 
However critics may identify and de­
scribe this excellence, an unspeak­
able, mysterious "presence" eludes 
analysis; but there.is no doubt about 
its existence for those who have 
savored it. The whole~ is indeed 
greater than its parts, as in any art. 

Whatever sense of mystery, reach of greatness, , that may characterize this Program lies in its thematic ded­ication to non-violence. The founders of the Program, gifted with a pro­found moral energy, recognized it; Fr: Hesburgh generously affirmed it; hundreds of students have experi­enced it for the past six years. Like the "sublime madness" of the quest for justice about which . Reinhold Niebuhr speaks, the mystique of non­violence addresses itself to· the most fundamental aspiration of man. It has found most distinguished expres­sion in the lives and . messages of Jesus, Lao Tzu, Gandhi, Martin Luther King. For a variety of tech­nological and cultural reasons, this awareness has reached an intensity -and extension today not felt before in 
human history. 
As in the full enjoyment of music, 
being aware of what it is that you 
are responding. to is applicable here. 
While the whole transcends its parts, 
it is not independent of them. In the 
music dynamic we can distinguish 
the constituting melody, harmony, 
rhythm. The role of each, of these 
"parts" is what it is in virtue of its 
functional relation to the other parts. 
The absence of one dimension dis­
torts the whole: melody without 
chords lacks sustaining depth, har­
mony without melody is going no 
place, and so on. How the spirit of 
non-violence comes to life in people 
at Notre Dame depends on its ap­
propriate instrumentalities and their 
apt coordination: as knowledge, sub­
ject to the disciplines of the intellect; 
as action, in the building of insti­
tutions; as communal experience, 
growth in a style of life. 
Like· the musical composition, the 
Program articulates its transcending 
theme. of non-violence through a dis­criminating exercise of its constitu­tive competencies: knowledge, action, community. Its · effectiveness lies in each of these "parts" being distinc­tively itself and, through skillful co­

. ordination, each achieving an end that lies beyond its immediate inten­tion. This end is, of course, discerni­ble development in the way the stu­dent experiences the world and in the skills he has acquired to work re­sponsibly for change in it. Unlike the symphony, however, the Program has no score or prescribed direction; it must . improvise, sensitive to the present moment of historical con­sciousness and to the nature of its resources. In this important respect the Program can be considered as an heuristic, an instrument for the dis­covery and recognition of the yet un~ known. As a mode.of inquiry, it is a set of procedures that are justified by the possibilities it opens up for gen­erating a new theory or in solving problems. We speak, for example, of the heuristic superiority of analytic geometry over Euclidean methods, or of the· heuristic value of imag­inary experiments in quantum me­chanics. To view the Program as an heuristic is to see it as operationally providing proeesses through which the ·experiences "of each· participant, and, complementary to this,· that of the Notre· Dame community itself, can be brought to a greater self-understanding. · 
Responding to awakening of social consciousness in students, the Pro­gram heuristic sets _up learning oc­casions where the "right'~ people can come together to raise questions and, hopefully, discover structures pro­ductive of futures different from the disastrous ones currently predicted on all sides. To search for structure means to enclose undetermined, scat­tered elements of human experience iri such a way that .there is a dis­closure of meaning, as, for example, the economic theory of "comparative advantage" . discloses gains from trade under countless situations; or, with the help of Pablo Neruda, we can see that the enclosure Fin de Fiesta_ reveals the inevitab.le emptis ness of much human hope. 
Lest the Program's strategies to discover structures -for observing the world, changing it, celebrating it -generate "foreclosures," three con­ditions must be. followed if this· am­bitious educational effort, a "non­violent symphony" as it were, is to emerge as a reality greater than its parts. 
• In ·each of its "parts," the ap­propriate rules for enclosing must be·foUowed, with a self-conscious­ness of'method, that characterizes liberal education. The more faith­fully each is true to itself-with almost jealous concern-the great­er the possibilities for it being re­lated with the others. For example, rigor in thinking philosophically about the concept of violepce and 
.its referents may well temper naive inclinations to dogmatic ad­vocacy of non-violence. · 
• -As in the music dynamic, each part encloses significantly only through the complementarity of its components. Social science, or the­ology for that matter, _uninter­preted by actual striving to alter existing · social structures, tends toward impertinent abstraction; uninformed by a concerned com~ munity, it loses momentum-toward creativity. Activism; when ' not joined by critical reflection, readily becomes manipulative or foolish or violent; unsupported by· com­munal dialogue, it crumbles under adversity. The communal experi­-~nce, · failing -to be oriented to a goal beyond itself, suffocates in 
. narcissistic stupor; unenlightened about its own procedures, it suc­cumbs to internal conflict. 

• Tp.e Program's ,heuristic suc­ceeds ultimately when it generates style' in enclosing, that. is,'. in dis­. covering. structures that disclose . new possibilities of knowing, act­ing, sharing. Since style comes 
· only through discipline assimilated and transcended, the experiences of the student must have a con­tinuity in their development and a repetition in which diversity is en­countered · frequently enough · to J disclose sameness of principle. Only habit endures. 
Because ·a psychologist can handle theories of aggression and a sociolo­gist the vast area of conflic_t resolu~ tion-better than · a gerieralist·in the Program, -it should not be a major department in the sense of being a center for a special kind of teaching and research. However, in its heuris--­tic capability as ordering a coherent set of experiences, the ·Program should .be a. department. Its central. task would be coordinating the flow 
: SCHOLASTIC 

of purpose and affection among the faculty _in exploring the meaning· of non-violence; it ·would, occasion the meeting •,of faculty and students, of 
the students with each other. That 
is, the. Program as :a department would be offering a continuing chal-' lerige to the Notre Dame community in its: distinctive capacities to par­ticipate in this_jnquiry. . 
'' The courses currently offered are Seminar in Non-Violence; War, 
Peace, Revolution; Myth, Love, Vio­
lence; Capitalist Critique; and Struc­
tural v,olence: Food, Population, and 
Energy. ·· Although the .Program has been sponsoring faculty . panel discussions
f~r t~e: past three years on themes 
of . violence and non-violence, this year's series on Epidemic Starvation has been remarkable: a common subject, coordinated with the course 
on Food, Population, Energy; alarger 
number of them (seven so far), and increased attendance.· The faculty asked to participate · have done so most willingly;·· eager, it· seems, to bring .their intellectual skills to the 
multiple questions associated with 
global :hunger. . . . . : Several faculty are interested in setting up a continuing inquiry into the moral. dimension of the univer~ sity, especially in view of serious world problems to which we are in­. cliried fo pay iittle attention. . Unlike: the heuristic "disclosures"of thinking, wliose success.· is mea­sured · by their neat ascent from helter-skelter factuality to encom: passing generality, the "enclosing" of · action requires a new rhythm. Awak­ened to move out froni the security of dormitory or clique, the student 
is led to feel .the plight of the need­
ful: the smell of· their poverty, the 
touch of deformed bodies,·the·sounds 
of the.ir frustration. Whether or not in .the immediacy of·his contact with these victims of society he meets them as· persons, he· will· experience the . i•way" of bureaucracies..Here, . 
the road to "enclosing" means dis­
. covering• where the power is,· who has it, how;it can be channeled into 
the service: of.· the oppressed. The 
possibilities for the · student in the 
Program· ue· in the confrontation of 
the. ideals· of .non-violent means of 
·change with the actual administra'­
tion of law and other institutions. ·: · These · encounters, ·: probably · not . very effective. and necessarily brief 
APRIL 11 ·1975 
because ·a student's business is else-­
where; can° be productive when dis­
cussed with others in the Program's seminars. What is known philosoph­ically as non-violent satyagraho: or 
theologically as Christian caring may 
be "enclosed" in a decision to assume 
responsibility, however small, for the 
course of human history. This trans­
formation· of consciousness has been 
grasped-well by· J. Glenn Gray: 
!'Such reflection will drive him be­yond .his own small world of daily concerns an·d force him to acknowl­edge their triviality in comparison with the larger ·human issues. Once 
this primary distinction between his 
own and the world's problems has 
taken possession of his mind, he will never ·be the same again. If he is wise as well as thoughtful, he will hardly set out on some world-saving mission, but anxiety will require him 
to deal in a new way with the rela­
tionships of his that are at hand. Possessed of a larger perspective, he will try to redefine hiriiself'iil terms of his real. possibilities and thereby 
seek to become more. appropriately 
human." 
Students•. and faculty in the pro­

gram have, been active in the Notre 
Dame World Hunger Coalition: help­
ing in the arrangements for rice and tea meals· or.· guest speakers, solicit­ing pledges for modified meals in th~ 
dining halls, creating a viable orga­
nization of the various parts of the 
Coalition. 



Since · the twenty-four students taking the Food, Population, Energy course· will develop into the ·most knowledgeable group on campus on the subject of world hunger, they and the coordinator of the course have agreed that there is an obliga­tion to make this knowledge and con­cern available to others. Six teams of students, using various audio-visual materials and discussion techniques, will be making some twelve presenta-_ tions on the subject to various schools and churches·in South Bend. 
A volunteer bail bond project has been introduced into the St. Joseph County criminal courts. Procedures for interviewing prisoners, verifying the . information, making the data · available. to the . judges have been worked out with officials of the courts; Some fifteen students are now working in the project. 
As it is being developed here,:the rationale for a Program in Non-Vio­lent Social Change rests on some ex­plicit assumptions about the' commit­ment of Notre Dai:ne as a Christian university: that the total; impact of its educational activities, like a sym­
. phony, is a whole greater .than its parts; that this • transcending effect is achieved only by a clear: differen­tiation of its roles and their system­atic · coordination, Specifically, ..the Program holds that the study of the­ories of aggression or systems • of conflict resolution, for example, come to full significance only as . enclosed 
·@·.···· 
by the ethos of non-violence; sec­ondly, that this ethos of non-violence, as a point of view and style of life, is sustainable only in the ultimate enclosure of a community, · in this case a Christian one. 
Because of its comprehensiveness -and the question of will-this final communal contexting is seldom fully achieved. This deficiency is some­what the same as pornography is a deficiency of sexuality. Perfect bod­ily forms in fantastic adventures are exciting, but, · while eras comes to some incandescence, sexuality-in-the­head is a strange place-::-fcr have it. Undeniable, too, are the excitements in the university of well-formed the­ories and imaginative expressions of art; yet, as uninterpreted by ongoing action on behalf of others and shared living, they may become pornogra­phies of human existence. More real­istic than pictures, casual sexual en­counters bring bodies into actual worldly interaction, but, even as Playboy knows, sex ''unenclosed''.-by love is second best. Just as sexuality gains in intensity and duration­and becomes a language at the ser­vice of-the person-when "enclosed" by commitment, so, too, in the Chris­tian university, knowledge and ac­tion await a final structure. 

The celebration of eras, whose am­biguity is rivaled only by its radical necessity, presents a special tension in a university such as Notre Dame. As in Plato's academy, its power is­sues in a search for the ideal, its ac­tuality occurs in those epiphanic mo­ments when excellence, in form and action, is uncovered. On the other hand, when eros is transformed into agape; it becomes a force that cre­ates value rather than discovers it. Its structure is the Christian com­munity where, gracious love having been experienced, its members ven­ture forth to act on behalf of others. 

Its presence is identifiable . in its power to bring students to care for others beyond the intimate circle of their family, their friends, sub-cul­tures based on art,· games, science. 
The Christian university makes a bold, paradoxical claim on behalf of eras: as university, a wholehearted quest for beauty; as Christian, a relativizing and, -bounding of this thrust by a care for the deformed. If this limiting tension is to be a liber­ating force, it must be made con­cr~tely operational, an enclosing of the unenclosable. The theme of non­violence mediates this overarching purpose of Notre Dame. It gives unity of significance ·and concern· to speculative knowledge; it is the focus of the intentional community which functions as the third "part" of the Program's heuristic. It generates con7 sistent styles of living only as sus~ tained both by reflection and by the 
life of the gospel. · · · ·· 
World Hunger 
(continued from page 19) 
Knowing· that something is the 
right thing to do, even that it's the 
right thing to do for everybody 
concerned, doesn't make it easy. 
Whether we are ready to do it will 
depend on our attitude towards vio­
lence in general, and negative 
violence in particular (failure to 
meet people's needs). 
That is the real area that needs. 
discussion in a Catholic university. 
In some ways, the word Catholic 
tells us more about our identity ­
or what our identity ought to be 
-than the word Christian. If you 
use the word Christian, you have 
to explain what Christ stood for. 
The word Catholic tells .you. It 
means universal: it means universal 
concern, universal love, universal 
brotherhood -it means that how­
ever much you have to limit yourself 
for practical reasons, there is still 
no one who is beyond the reach of 
your concern, your respect, your 
love, your desire to help if you could. 
However much it may have fallen 
short, Catholicism insists that your 
concern must go beyond the fam­
ily, the tribe, the city, the nation. 

•We love God only 'as much as the person we love least. 
That simplifies the most basic question -why should I be con-·· cerned about someone starving in Bangladesh? If I am concerned at all, I am concerned about anyone, anywhere. But if my concern is un­limited, I am not. The question is: What does he need, and what can I do about it? Sheer human limita­tion forces us to choose what we will do and whom we will do •it for. There is no computerized answer to that question. We seem to be doing some negative violence no matter what we choose. 
A position about positive ·violence seems so much clearer. If a beggar is starving on our doorstep, and his presence is bothering us, we can 

· either shoot him or let him starve to death. The consequences to the victim are just as final in one case as in the other. But there could be a very real difference for us. In one case we have chosen him for death, a clearly immoral decision. _In the other case we have not chosen him for life. That could be because we had to make another choice. What that other choice is qetermines whether there is any real difference between the positive and negative violence in this case. There is no 
·why to justify our shooting him. There could be a why to justify our not feeding him. 
TJ:lis is an especially difficult ques­tion for a . university which is a citadel of affluence. We don't have to shoot our way to class: every morning, but we do spend on Uni­versity education very large chunks of parents' income and public mon­ies. The· money spent on Notre Dame education could undoubtedly save thousands of lives each year i_f spent elsewhere on -medicines, minimal sanitation, .. and _food distribution. But it can be argued; very soundly I believe, that it is only education which even puts us in a position to provide medicines, hygiene, and food to people elsewhere. Education has given us th_e knowledge of how to do these specific things, as well as the affluence· to do them. The prog~ ress of t~chnology, and of mankind in general, has required sacrificing the fulfilling of some present needs in order to multiply manifold our ability to meet needs in the future. It get~ very sticky only when the present reed :which we leave ,unful­filled is somebody else's need, and it is . a· terribly _urgent need, and , we could in fact fulfill it without sacri­ficing_ ~anything-esse~tial, to our education or health. We are in that sticky. situation right now,. and we can get cmt of it only, by resolving in our own -minds and•. hearts ,our personal responsibility for-insuring that no one starves_ to death in this year of our Lord 1975. 

SCHOLASTIC 

Amish 
( continued from page 5) 
I 

need to, but we can't drive it or own it. Jesus used 'a boat, but he never owned one;" said Minister Yoder. 
For the Old Order Amish, the problem of the automobile and other forms of technology is that owner­ship · is believed to lead to pride which they consider sinful. "The problem comes in owning a car. If an Amish man owris acar, he'll use it for luxury an_d pleasure," Perry Yoder said. 
Do the :Amish use automobiles much? Whenever the Amish need to go a great distance, they usually hire a· driver. For example, if there is a funeral in Pennsylvania, a group of Amish hire a driver and vehicle for the trip East. 
One young ''man in Middlebury earned his college tuition onesum­mer by driving for the Amish. An av­erage payment is 20 cents a mile for one rider, 30 cents for two riders and so on. The Amish also pay for the gas. They pay for the driver's room and board on an . overnight journey. 
Some Amish around Middlebury also own automobiles though Amish law prohibits it. The cars are kept in local barns and parking lots. On one Saturday morning, three bearded Amish men drove down the main street of Middlebury in a dented, jacked-up, navy blue '67 · Chevy. It was a scene like that of a surburban hangout. 
The modern ways of civilization which have impinged upon Amish dress and travel have also entered Amish farm life. 
The Amish community has a strong affinity for the soil and for nature. Unlike science, which is occupied . with theoretical recon~ struction of the order of the world, the Amish view comes from· direct contact with nature by the reality of work. The physical world. is good, and in itself not corrupting or evil. 
As the Ordnung states, "Farming and related. occupations are to be encouraged;· Working in cities and factories is not permissible." . 
· However, agriculture has given way to other forms of work for the Amish; The mobile home \in.dustry, 
APRIL 11 1975 


which has its capital in. northern Indiana, hires many Amish. 
· Toby, a 30-year-old Amish man with six children, owns a small pheasant farm and works at· a mobile home factory. Another young Amish stated that he worked for the mobile home industry. The extent of the Amish involvement in the mobile home industry is revealed by the fact that the factories near Middlebury close on Amish holidays because the employers do not have enough workers. 
Omar owns and operates a win­dow and siding shop in Shipshe­wana. Though carpentry is accepted by the Amish, the influx of tech­nology is . apparent in his shop. Omar's shop· is a dark concrete building without electricity. How­ever, air tools powered . by a diesel generator are used in the carpentry work. Omar also hires a non-Amish man to transport his goods and· men. 
"We are not too much different from a factory, though we ·have a little more craft. It takes a lot of thinking to run these places with­out electricity," Omar said. 
Dan, an Amish farmer who O\YJ1S 

a 236-acre farm near Middlebury, 
just bought a tractor from St. 
Charles, Missouri. The tractor is 
allowed because it follows the Ord­
nung law, "Tractors are to be used 
only for such things that can hardly 
be done with horses. Only either 
stationary engines or tractors with 
steel tires are allowed." · 
The movement of the Amish from 

the farm to the factory is accepted 
as a necessary evil. "They can work 
in a factory that has electricity if 
they don't own it. These people have 
to work somewhere," said Minister 
Yoder. 
Though the letter of the law has been violated, the essence still re­mains. "These · jobs are all right as long as the people stay in the Church," Yoder judged. 
Another example of the impinge­ment of society on the.Amish cul­ture is the increased use of banks by the Amish. 
In the Shipshewana Bank, seven 

of the ten customers one Friday af­
ternoon were • Amish .. ,Two . Amish 
were discussing wills and mortgages 
with a bank executive. Though bank­
ing is not prohibited by Amish law, 
the use of banks by the Amish fur­
ther reveals their involvement with ·society. 
"The Amish borrow more today 

than they used to. They are. good 
loan customers. They'll buy four~ or 
five-acre tracts of land and put a 
house up. In three or four years 
they have their debt paid," said 
Gordon E. Smith, president of the 
Shipshewana Bank. Smith added 
that the Amish pay their debts 
quickly because they have no other 
expenses such as insurance and cars. 
"They do not invest in stocks and 

bonds; however, they do put their 
money into land buying. The Amish 

are loyal customers and we've never  nological economy. Though society  the best teacher. "The children will  
had a loss with them," the execu­ and technology have altered some  hopefully grow up to follow _the  
tive said.  Amish beliefs and customs, the  word of Jesus because of their.fam­ 
A pretty young lady in a Middle­ Amish are still-a united and reli­ ily's example," Yoder said. The  
bury drugstore said,. "I wouldn't  gious community.  Amish family is a strong social and  
mind being an Amish now that we  Perry Yoder has been minister for  religious -unit which stresses love  
have all this inflation. Living away  the Amish in Shipshewana for 31  and community.  
from society on farms, the Amish  years, and he will continue to be the  The Amish religious service,  
get along fine no matter what the  minister until he dies. He receives  which is held in homes on alternate  
economy is like."  no pay for his services.  Sundays, is also. a symbol of love  
These words are easy to under­ Perry is also a retired farmer and  and community. __The Amisp. prac­ 
stand when one views the Amish as  he now spends his days. studying the  tice the kiss of peace and. the wash­ 
isolated, self-sufficient farmers; how­ Bible and writing for the Christian  ing of _the feet to unify th~ congre­ 
ever, the reality of Alhish life re­ Herald. He is an extremely friendly  gation. _ ...  
veals a different picture.  and open man who has placed his  Amish education is structured . to  
"We are hurt by the economy just  life and faith in Jesus Christ.  stress the word of Jesus and to pro- 
like anybody else," said a tall,  The Amish, like Perry, have en­ mote the Amish community. .  
middle-aged · Amish dairy farmer.  trusted their lives to the providence  "Every Friday afternoon we have  
· "Right now the milk profits -are  of God. This trust is manifested in  religious instruction in German, the  
down and the cost of cattle feed is  the selection of Church leaders.  language of the Church, so that the ­ 
way up," the farmer added.  "Songbooks are set up on a Jable.  students will learn the word of  
The farmer who was standing  One of the books has a piece of  Jesus," said Mary,. the 18-year-old  
next to some tools in a hardware  paper in it. The men \Yho desire to  Amish schoolteacher. · · ­- 
store in Middlebury grabbed a new  ·  be a bishop or a minister pick up  Amish children must attend school  
pitchfork. "See this here fork? Well,  the books and the one who gets the  until the eighth grade. "We_ don't  
it's gone up over four dollars in the  paper is chosen. God chooses our  stress high school and we don't need  
past year. They ought to take this  leaders," Yoder said.  college. The Amish people don't  
fork to Washington so those offi­ 
cials could throw some more bullshit  
about inflation," the dairyman said  
jokingly.  
A young, bearded Amish man in  
Yoder's Department Store in Ship­ 
shewana was looking at a $79 wood  
stove as he said, "This inflation is  -­·_-;--~...,;.·. "•  

hitting all of us."' · 

The young man, who worked at a mobile home factory, was skeptical ­about the future. "Out at the factory, we're working 36 hours a week and the way things are going, we'll do just a little more work before we shut down," the worker :said. -­
··­To cut expenses · for the winter ' ,l ·--..=-.-::-:-.-.-::--. : 
ahead, the Amish man planned to . ~-.. . . 
install a wood-burning furnace in r 'fl4r -'-··----~~--~~~:-1~--_-:.~~.C-~ his house to reduce fuel costs. "Well, I thought I would use the timber The Amish Church is a -volunteer need that type of education to lead around my house for fuel so as to church _ only· those who desire to the simple life-style we live," Perry cut down expenses. Looks like it's be · Amish join. A person may be­Yoder said. going to be a long, hard winter," the come an Amish after he is 14. The Tlie Amish · school near -Middle­young man judged. _ person ··is ·. instructed 8 or 9 times bury is conducted from 8:30 a.m. to Toby, the ·peasant· farmer, was about the word of Jesus and then 3:00 p.m. on Monday" through Fri­forced to take . a job a~ a mobile he may be baptized. _ day. The subjects, such. as arith­home .factory because of economic · · :·--A person can never break an metic, -reading ·and geography, are · problems; However, the economy is ·· , Amish . law before baptisin because similar .to · those of most elementary also affecting the mobile home in-one must be.in the Church before he schools. · dustry. "We're down· to three work-can sin. However, if an individual The Church leaders receive no days a week riow and it doesn't look : sins on'ce he is Amish, he must con­official, advanced theological train­like it. will get much better," Toby ··tess before God. For serious sins, ing. For the Amish, God's iaw is in · said.· · · · · ·such -as owning a car, the person is the Bible.: . The once isolated farm . world of suspended from the Church until he -"A· trained scholar in. theology the Amish is now infested with the feels he has· repented before God. usually hurts• the . · Church. The problems of ·s_ociety and of a tech-The Amish believ_e that·exainple is trained. theolo~ians ask for pay and 
28 · SCHOLASTIC 
they usually are more concerned 
about the wool than they are about 
the sheep,'\ Minister Yoder said. 
The Amish belief in a religious 

community is also revealed in their , 
rejection of. violence and war. The· 
source of their belief is found in the 
Bible in such passages as John 
18:36, "My Kingdom is not of this 
world: if my Kingdom were of this 
world, then would my servants 
fight."_·, 
The Amish, unlike many prag­matic Christian. religions, -follow: the words of the . Bible and Jesus' message _of love, and totally reject violence ·and war. -Through their love they .try to promote peace for all men. The . refusal of Amish men to wear mustaches is a symbol of the rejection of war. "The baptized Amish men refuse to wear mus­taches because 300 years ago our forefathers cut their mustaches to symbolize their ·protest of a war in Germany. We continue this tradition today," Perry Yoder said. 
Though Amish religion offers a community to the Amish,· there is another group that offers a greater community. This group is the Amish family. 
The . Chupps live on a 17½-acre farm in the rolling. hills . outside Middlebury. Their house is a. spa­cious; two-story white frame struc­ture. In pens around the house are coyotes, pigs, raccoons, deer and ducks. Located next to the pigpen is an aluminum fishing boat with a gas motor. 
The Chupps just moved to•. this house from. Nappanee, Indiana. They . moved because of religious problems in Nappanee. "We moved because Nappanee was too worldly'. We wanted a better place for the children to grow up in," Mrs. Chupp said. 
For the elderly parents, the move was a drastic change. Mr.. Chupp, a leather worker, would · have to be­gin a new trade in a new place. Mrs. Chupp would have to make new friends. The family, which uses a buggy, would be isolated from their old community. Yet, the parents' love for their children forced them to move so that the children would have a better environment in which to grow. .. . . . 
Family love and unity are also_ manifested in the wedding feasts of 
(continued on '[XLge 30) 

APRIL· 11 1975 

With the advent of April and the passing of spring break comes the realization that the 1974-75 aca­·demic year is drawing to a quick close. Though sheaves of papers re­main to be written and final exams are still in the future, we must con­cede that less than a month from now we will be viewing the Golden Dome through rear-view mirrors. In order that you might recognize and know these indications that May is at hand, we· present: Time To Leave: This Can't Be Notre Dame Because ... 
Detex cards go on sale in the bookstore. Refrigerator fines are done away with. . Students are no longer standing in line for anything. Indiana politicians are becoming intelligent and objective. Pink slips are really a reflection· of academic status. · . The sun is shining on 4 .out of 5 days. The hall maids knock before en­tering. O'Brien · Paints monopoly· · on school colors is judged illegal. The sun is shining on 4 out of 5 days. 
No one carries: an umbrella.· 
New sidewalks replace mudpaths. 

Dean Macheca's directives begin to make sense. Father Burtchaell's directives be­gin to make sense. 
The ND laundry doesn't alter your clothes to fit your 4-year-old brother~ 
The infirmary replaces throat cul~ tures with doses of efficiency. The sun is shining on 4 out of· 5 days.· The South Bend traffic system is orderly. · Coeducation ·at ND is becoming a reality. Academic calendars are agreeable to all. Domers don't kriow what forced triples are. 
The student is allowed on campus with a car for more than 15 minutes. The word "party" isn't whispered. . Enough copies of books are avail­
able at the Reserve Room. 
ND men have their rooms fur­

nished with Chippendale furniture 
like BP and Farley. 
Shuttle busses run on schedule. Lawn sprinklers aren't pointed at sidewalks. LaFortune Center is finally reno­vated. Temperature gauges are installed in showers. · The. sun is shining on 4 out of 5 days. There is no housing shortage on campus. .. A drinking bill passes the state house. · · The Observer is not .afraid to en-· dorse something or someone. 
Professors no longer . use the words "human condition," "vis-a­vis," and "value judgment." .. 
Arthur Pears runs an efficient security system. Edmund Price runs an efficient dining hall system. 
_Exam questions . are suited to allotted time. . Father. Hesburgh is. on campus for . two . consecutive weeks. . . . 
The University no· longer "re­serves the right to. . . ·" . Fran DeMarco is seen wearing a frown. .An "attempt". is REALLY made to deliver mail. . . Pre-med students are no longer suspicious of one another. 
Quad picnics are not rained out. 
The dining hall no longer features International Ptomaine Night. Flights to andfrom O'Hare aren't grounded. The sun is shining on 4 out of 5 days. Relevance and tokenism no longer characterize campus life.. Students are given consideration in decision-making. The cashier's office is open during lunch hour; Drainage openings aren't· built. on inclines. The mean age of security person­
nel is reduced to 65. 
Sheets really fit bunk beds. 
The sun is shining on 4 out of.5 days. 
.~ohn M. Murphy 
Amish 
( continued from page 29) 
the Amish. On Thank~giving Day, . a double wedding banquef·was · to be held for 400 Amish in the Coblentz home, which is near the Chupps' 
farm. 
On the Saturday ·before the wed­
ding, the house was full of "people. 
Girls from the bride's and groom's 
families were preparing cakes, side 
dishes and other foods. Huge tables 
were being set with white china and 
silverware. Kettles were boiling on 
a kerosene stove. The girls were 
laughing and talking as they pre­
pared for the feast. 
At the Chupps' home a barn was 
being built for the wedding ·. cere­
mony; a Chupp boy was one of the 
grooms. · The barn was. a massive 
structure that was only half com­
pleted. When Mr. Chupp was asked 
on Saturday how he would get it 
finished· by Thursday, he replied, 
"Don't worry. We'll get it done. 
Some of my friends are coming over 
this afternoon." 
The remark typified the. trust and 
faith the Amish have in their friends 
and family. The faniily is_ a united 
group who works and loves together. 
Another manifestation of love and 
community in the Amish society is 
the system of mutual aid. The Amish 
have no forms of insurance except 
each other. When disaster strikes a 
family, each family of the church 
district is assessed and gladly do~ 
nates its share to the victim. 
The Amish religion and family are 
built on mutual love and concern. 
Though society and technology are 
impinging upon the Amish, they still 
follow Jesus' word of love. Though 
some Amish now work in factories, 
they still promote peace and love 
throughout the world. The Amish 
are human and they sometimes fall 
to their _weaknesses and desires. Yet, 
they struggle to love God and man. 
As Mrs. Chupp so rightly stated, 
"We're .human and we're not per­
fect, but we're still trying." 
r . -· ~-----­
' Letters 

Dear Sir: 
I respond from graduate school in Connecticut not with the article long ago promised but with some slight annoyance at Michael Feord's depicti~n of "Philadelphia" in your "Regional Diversity at Notre Dame" (Scholastic, January 31 1975). He left out the true diversity, the cath­
. olicity of Philadelphia, if you will. I take Michael Feord's presentation of the "Main Line" section of the Phila­delphia Metropolitan area (outside , the citylimits, of course) asafic-0 tional polemic that shows no more about Philadelphia than James Joyce's Ulysses tells us about Greek plumbing. I am a proud native of South Philly (Pwilly) and see no more connection .between ''_the Main Line" and my Pwilly than between a dung heap.and diamonds. Now for the diamonds. Michael Feord left out The Frankford El, the 52d Street Strip, North Philadelphia Station, The Philadelphia Phillies -­all the way in 75 ! -soft pretzels, dirty gutters, beautiful Italian girls who wear funny-looking things on 
·their feet that look like shoe boxes, The Abbe Art Cinema, The Bicen­tennial_ Commission, William Penn's Hat, The Schuylkill Expressway,· The Schuylkill River, Camden, Jerry Blavet, Fabian, Joey Bishop, The Dellphonics, The Mike Douglas Show, The Reading Terminal, The Stanley Cup, The Mounted Police in Center City ("Whaddya want us to do? Diaper the horses?" -Police Commissioner O'Neil), the trollies, and Wilt Chamberlin. 
I apologize for being a month and a half behind reading the maga­zine. Such a manifestation of my depravity, I hope, will not keep the real Glories of my town from. the Notre ·Dame Community. 
· One more. We have a Frank Rizzo for mayor. Best wishes, Jack Wenke '74 

Dear Sir: 
Just a note about the article on graduate students in the last Scholastic (March 7, 1975). As usual, a great job. Social life is no more forbidding at Notre Dame than in the big bad world for which we are all supposedly preparing ( not to live forever in Lewis Hall as some seem to think). Just a little initiative, joining_ a few clubs, talk­
. ing to a few people and letting up the death grip on a few cents can make this a social paradise com·­pared to the limbo of state universi­ties or even the Ivy League. Maybe facing each day with the thought · that you could be,cmaybe deserve· to be, in Siberia isn't the answer, but it's one of them. · Pat Fenelon Ph.D. candidate Dept. of English 
Dear Sir: · 
I was very pleased to receive a COPY. ofJhe January 31 issue of Scholastic. Aside from the personal interest columns, the "Regional Diversity" theme was especially at-· tractive to one who has seen a good deal of this country. But you left out the Golden West, California, land of unmitigated sunshine, haven for hippies, hipsters, zealots, bikers, hikers, free-this arid free-that move­

. ments, a land dotted with missions, ,a not-so-very~old land. All con-. spicuously ·absent. Absent perhaps because it is so diverse? Perhaps too diverse? Speculation aside, in taking your back-page advertise­ment for material at face value, I · submit this attempt at California (specifically, San Francisco). Though not a native-born Califor­nian (l could c~urit on the fingers •of one hand all the natives here that I've known), I am rio more a stranger here than the next fellow. San ·Francisco then. For anyone·. that might be interested. The Big City. To look on itfrom· across the water while coming over th~ hills. near·Berkeley (more aptly Berserkley) does take your breath·away momentarily. The cli­mate is warm and windy; there is. something of a Mediterranean ease about this city. Up cl~~e, the flavor 
SCHOLASTIC 


,....--.•; •.•~.-,,-<(• • ....••--••-----,..,-~ .•. .~.... ••---••-•~--~~'1'." •~~r--••• ...•..Y•#"S•F~ --:.~
does not fade in the face of Banks 1 . . . . .· .. · .·. -.. I of America, Holiday Inns. There are simply too many special spots 
1· People ~-t-~I) ~> 
~~,,>---•i•-,.... ~_,., ••-~'.,._:__ ,. ll,•~•••~.... .,-• ' .. , ..... j ~--: -•• ~--~',:-....~~•-­
for San Francisco to succumb to the 
impersonal grey of Big City. 
Union Square and the street artists and "crafts people" : from bale ballerinas -they took to the · streets to dance to raise money for their nearly insolvent ballet -to urchi~s singing off-key Spanish songs; from belly dancers to blue­grass banjoists to abalone jewelry merchants. Why· sojourn in San Francisco? Because they have the best street musicians in the coun­try. Because it is a street place, an outdoor place, a place turned inside out, loaded with out~of-the-way, endearing places; especially loaded '. with places on the out and out with any sense of propriety or propor~ tion. North Beach, a street for loud and clubs and lewd acts, is as . . garish aplace as any. The Wharf has seafood, ·fresh Italian bread, even fresher Italian merchants, and tourists~ tourists, tourists. China~ town, compact, ·noisy, has some of the most palatable food in the city. (A Notre Dame gourmet was once -. heard to remark that there was no cuisine ~ not' even the French 
. . 

-to surpass the Chinese.) Why San Francisco? To sample the "free" city! To know the application and. misapplication of the word itself all the way from sea breezes to the unhealthy acts and notions all . "going down" as "liberated." 
Homogeneity is one word that could not be made to stick regarding San Francisco. There is so· much diversity as to engage most any fancy. But there is so little room for rest. One's imagination and sensi­bilities are constantly being. piqued -often assaulted -to the point where they become overburdened. There is a ~i_t too much jungle foe for self-·scrutiny and for peace. There is always simply too much to do. Living there for ariy length of time would make one _over along the lines of the peripatetic, frenetic rabbit in Alice in Wonderland . . 
It is not a place for contempla­tives. Still, philosophers would find it engaging. They might easily come away with enough "food" to last a lifetime. It's a nice place -a very nice place -to visit. · 
John Collins '73 

APRIL ·11 1975_ · 

Anyone planning ·on-moving off campus next year, but fearing that he may be cut off from the cam­pus activities, can look to the stu.:. dent Union· to find consolation that he will not 'be . forgotten.· Since October of last year, l\laura. Dona,;, hue and ·Paul Reynolds of the'Ser.:. vices Commission have · been com­piling and mailing a weekiy news­letter. to each off-campus student house, . listing movies, · concerts, sports events, lectures and the like being held on campus and in the South Bend area'. Off-campus stu~ dents can call in items to be printed in the newsletter, and··even ·other campus offices have turned to· Maura and Paul to distribute notices to these students. 
Both Paul and Maura joined the Student_ Union last year as_ fresh­men because they wanted something extra to do, and they have found it. Each week they must. now make phone calls throughout N.D. and South Bend, getting .times,· places. and prices of events, typing,. print­ing and addressing the notices and _ sending five hundred of them. into the. mail by Thursday. Maura, an Illinois resident, and Paul, · from Rhode Island, will be coritinuing this service next year, and both stress · the importance of getting freshmen involved in the Commission's work. Their concern is understandable. After all, someone must carry on 
''_·:\\'.:\\(:}\:'_, J '.11,,fIf{l:\t.,.. .'i.\It:~ 
in their tradition if they ever de­cide. to move off campus .. 
The Notre Dame Student Govern­ment has found· a particularly valu.:. -able asset in one · of · its members, 
-Stan Cardinas. Stan,· who was cam-­paign manager for Ed. Byrne in· the Student Body President elections, will be working as the 1975~76 Exec­utive : Coordinator for ,the coming year's administration. He is a junior from · Fresno, . California, and : his first major: involvement in politics came when he was in high school. As a senior he was approached to.work _on Sen. Muskie's presidential. cam­paign, and _later appointed to the Senator's California delegation. He campaigned for Muskie through Pennsylvania, and traveled to 'the 1972 • Democratic Convention-· as a member of his staff:. Also iri high school Stan attended .the ·. White Ho~se. Co,nference on Youth.• in Washington, D.C. 
At Notre Dame; Cardenas was ap­pointed. to. the Student. Union Aca­demic Commission as a sophomore, and is presently the Student Govern­ment's Off-campus Commissioner. He is an accounting major; planning after. graduation to work_ on the 1976 preside11tial campaign, and possibly will continue his education _in law, government or social work.: 
-Sue Grace, 

The Girls Take· To ·the Field 
Women have been at Notre Dame 
now for three years, and, while social · advances might not be quite up to par, their involvement in club sports and interhall has made some definite 
progress. 
When Notre Dame accepted girls 
three years ago, most of the ad­
ministration had little experience in 
girls' sports and physical education 
after being a male university for so 
long. According to Mr. Dominick· 
Napolitano, director of nonvarsity 
sports, the administration did an­
ticipate though that the girls would 
be interested in sports and would 
want to form their own teams. -But 
they had no idea that so many dif­
ferent women's sports would start 
up so fast. 
Dr. Fallon, head of the Physical Education Department, attributes the growing interest to not only the girls' .. involvement in . high school sports but-also. their "introduction· to the different sports in the physical education classes·.· 
The classes as they stand now are coed, started that way" primarily because there just were not enough girls to _have their own classes. But as they soon found out, "everything that we offered for the men, the women c;ould do." So they en­couraged the girls to compete against the boys in the classes; find­ing that "the girls, in proportion to their numbers, were better ·swim­mers· than. the boys." They also found -the girls to be surprisingly good volleyball players since many of them· had played volleyball as a varsity sport in their high schools. "The girls were not as adept at handball, but picked up racquetball very quickly." In tennis, golf, and circuit training and gymnastics, there was found to be no difference. 
"We were surprised at such things as weight training and jogging," noted Fallon. "We've had quite a few girls in it. Many of them seem to be more conscious of body-beau­tiful than the boys." The only sport segregated was soccer, and the hope next year is to have either speed­ball or field hockey for the girls. 
<'As far as the boys competing against the girls, we found that we were more concerned about it than the students. We were anticipating a number of problems that never materialized. They recognized this as a-life situation. They're going to have an opportunity to play if not compete against the opposite sex. And this tended , to break · the ice quite a bit." 
This year the Physical Education Department hired Miss ·Astrid Hot­vedt as. their first female teacher,. both to identify'with the increasing number _of girls in the · gym classes and to integrate the department. But · she has become more valuable than they ever expected-not only as 
by Eileen ~'Grady 
a teacher, but as coordinator and consulter also. "She's very well qual­ified and _she's a good person to have," commented Fallon. _· "She wants to expand the girls' program both in our department as wen as campus-wide. Arid I'd love to have another one just like her." Miss Hotvedt is qualified to teach an the different classes in the department, specializing in the . gymnastics course and teaching all of the popu­lar ballroom dancing classes. She has also organized girls' swim, track, . field hockey arid gymnastics te!).riis, which all meet regularly and are beginning _to, compete. 
Dr. Fallon heartily supports the girls forming these teams of their own; "As I see it, there is nothing physiologically different between the boys and the girls. There may be a difference between how inany women ·_would be as interested in varsity sports_ as men. But the op­portunity 'is there and should be ex­plored. If• the interest is there among the girls, there's no reason 


why they shouldn't join sports as well as the men." ._ ' ·· . · . Continuing . on this point, Mr. Napolitano is amazed at how many club· sports and foterhall teams· the wo·men 'actually have organized and participate in. To date, the women's tennis, · basketball · and golf teams have attained club status and these foams co'nsist only_ of Notre Dame women. The women also compete 
in the saiHng, crew, skiing and fenc­ing clubs with 1'rotre Dame men and Saint Mary's girls. · 
The term "club" . means that the interested.' group llas organized ·a sport and managed· on their own· for a period of one year; that is, they have managed financially,. met reg­ularly :and competed..If they apply to . the·· 'department of · n6nvarsity sports and are granted the status of a club sport, . .then they are given $750 and as many facilities as pos:. sible, such as fields to practice on and equipment..And Mr. Napolitano claims there is . no discrepancy. be­tween . men's and · women's clubs. "We give the girls everything that we give the· boys, everything." He then refers to the new ruling, Title Nine, which in effect states that any college or university that spends federal funds has to provide equal opportunity. for men and women. And this applies to sports and ath­letics also. · ._ 
Mr. Napolitano thinks that the Notre Dame women have made an "excellent start" in sports so far, and he definitely foresees a future in·var­sity sports for them. _ 
This interest and involvement are proven:· all the more by the extensive interhall program that 'the women have set up; of ·which· ·Mr: Napoli~ tano is also in charge. Women have started . competition in · basketball, volleyball, . · softball, tennis, track, golf . and· mixed ·doubles. ,tennis arid 
racquetball. · ·' · · · · · · Both Dr. Fallon and Mr. Napol­
itano are excited about the future of women's _sports _here at Notre Dame, but stress the need of better communication between the girls here to find out exactly what sports they· ·want started. They point. out the i~portance of the newly formed 
Women's Athletic Association ­started on campus by j ane · Lam~ mers· and Astrid. Hotvedt f<>r. pre:. cisely this reason. As a spokesman for this gr:oup, Miss Hotvedt states that in the coming school year they would. like. to see fencing, . ten!}iS, basketball and golf teams be con­sidered 'for v~rsity status arid_'the track; field hockey, ··swimming,' and volleyball teams for club sport .sta­tus. ' They recommend also that the ctew, sailing, skiing and gymnastics 
teams remain Notre. Dame~Saint Mary's programs. 
Following is a more· in-depth look at ·each of these sports .:._ how they are set up' arid organized and how their competition has been thus far: 

.-.... Four years ago, seven St. Mary's girls got together and decided that they wanted to organize a fencing team. Having little , knowledge of what lay ahead. of them or what they were actually getting into, they enlisted the. aid of Professor Mike DeCicco tci serve as coach. "At first I thought it would fall-flat on its face and dfo," admits DeCicco today of his thoughts back then: <'I was wrong," he adds. And indeed he was. From its humble origin, · the Notre Dame-St: Mary's· Women's· Fencing ·Team has · grown --into.· a national contender, and the future holds nothing but _promise for the female , jousters. "We've coine · a long way since those days when we ·_. used St. Mary's phys-ed equipment," the coach· proclaims, and· a gleam· · of satisfaction can be detected in his . eyes. But Decicco himself · refuses to take any·'.credit for the success of the program. "There are about twenty-five women · involved in the sport here today," he says, "and 
APRIL 11 1975 
they deserve all the_· praise." : And when orie considers the obstacles which they have had to overcome, it is nigh impossible to argue with the · . coach's ·assertion. Assistant Coach Tim Taylor, who · has been an integral· part of the women's fencing team ' since its inception, describes -one·. of these barriers. "Fencing-· is a· -lot different from most other sports," he explains,· "be­cause it takei; a long;, long time ·-to develop the . necessary expertise. And virtually all of our women have little or no experience in fencing when. they arrive at Notre Dame ·or St. Mary's." He cites freshman Cathy· Buzard as a study in con­trast; "Cathy came here six months ago knowing nothing at· all about ·fencing. But, being the. gifted ath­lete she is, she has done amazingly well ·in her first year of competi­tion:''. But few can do . so well . so 
quickly. 
Freshman counterpart Ka th y 

Valdiserri has. taken :a different 
road to fencing excellence. A de­
termined, fierce competitor, .· she 
began fencing as a sophomore in 
high school. Why does she do it? 
"I think she's out to prove some­
thing -that women athletes can gain as much from sports as men," theorizes DeCicco. Kathy disagrees. "Actually, the reason I fence is so I don't have to take phys­ed," she confesses, a wan smile breaking through her heretofore stoic· countenance. · But closer in­spection reveals a more deep-seated purpose, as ·Cathy ·adds, "I suppose I just love fencing_;, ·Anyone who has· :Seen her fence will-attest to that: 
Two of the team's' ·top perform­ers, senior 'captain Cindy ~ebholz and grad student Sally Fisher;· are graduating ·next month, and _. their absence will undoubtedly have an effect on the team. But both coaches believe that it will be'a'positive one; "The younger girls· realize tiiai we have to build around· what we've got," DeCicco ·declares;· "and I think this will make them work just that 
much harder. · They;re .· -a proud bunch with high goals, and I sin­cerely believe .they can mak~ it big." He cautions, ho,vever,' ·that it won't be easy. Taylor agrees, concluding, "The status they hope to attain is certainly not· going to·· be handed them." One doubts that the women would want it that way anyway. 
-Paul Hess 
33 


Intramurals 
In the fall of 1973 Notre Dame admitted women undergraduates for the first time, and. intramural com­petition between the women began i_mmediately. Organizing t ea ms and setting the times for games were accomplished · by the hails, Walsh and Badin,· 011.·their own. The women law students fielded a team, as did St. Mary's. A regular league was set up by the Interhall Office for the basketball competition in the 
. wiriter. Between only Walsh· and Badin six teams submitted rosters. During the course of the season two teams folded completely and an­other forfeited one-third of their games. Walsh Hall's "Jockettes" won the championship. During the winter ·an open swimming meet and a Co-Rec volleyball tournament were also scheduled. 
With the female population more 
than doubling for the 1973-74 aca­demic year, activities sponsored by the Interhall Office increased pro­portionately. Flag football produced six teams and .over ·sixty partici­pants in brutal competition. Games were held behind the Athletic and Convocation Center, · with Badin winning the championship game. Other team sports included basket­ball, softball and volleyball. In basketball the four halls fielded six teams with· one team. taking mem­bers from more than one hall. Most of the teams· used male coaches and Farley eventually won the cham­pionship. A volleyball tournament was instituted, consisting of five teams. in round-robin competition with Breen-Phillips winning the 
championship. . 
In the spring of 1974 there was a separate women's softball league consisting of eight teams, two of which folded during the course of the season. Farley won the title. Co-Rec volleyball and tennis mixed doubles were provided again. In addition the Interhall Office organ­ized women's tournaments in singles and doubles tennis and racquetball, one track meet, and two swimming meets. In the swimming and track events participation has been sparse to say the least. . . 

This past year· the programs have solidified. The same team sports were offered with far fewer forfeits being reported. More teams partici­pated in softball and volleyball and a new Co-Rec racquetball tourna­ment was sponsored. Iridividual tournaments increased in participa­tion and the competition was mark­edly tougher. _With the female pop­ulation stabilizing, the number_ of sports offered is not expected to in­crease significantly. However, as Betsy Bernard, interhall girls' su­pervisor stated, "The office is-pre­pared to. do all it can to arrange athletic events for the girls. Thus the girls are encouraged to make their desires for various · athletic programs known." 
-Jim Ambrose 
Crew 
The women's crew team has shown remarkable progress during · its two-year existence. The team, coached by . Clete Graham and cap-· tained by Marilyn Crimmons, . con­sists of extremely dedicated women. The crew participates in six races during the racing season of. April 1 to May 3. But crew . participation certainly does not. end here, it is essentially a twelve-month sport. In the fall the women row 6-10 miles daily on the St. Joe River. During the winter months the women run 5 rr.iles 3 days a week until rowing again begins in the spring. The women continue to work out indi­vidually during the summer months. 
The long hours and hard work reflect the crew's impressive record. Women's crew holds. the defending title of· Midwest Lightweight Cham­pions and recently the Varsity light­weights .. This is a great accomplish­ment since Princeton is known to have one of the best women's crew teams in the country. M.A.C.R.A. 
(Middle America Collegiate Rowing Association) will hold its first wom­en's race this year and .the N.D. women's crew is hoping to win on. both the varsity and novice levels. In fact, the crew hopes to go unde­feated. this year. They only antici­pate one problem which is possibly having to· race Minnesota, defend­ing National Champs, in the Midwest Sprints. 
With the hard work and spirit of the crew, they have an. excellent char:.ce to meet their goals. Varsity letter jackets were recently awarded 
(for the first time) to.. Beth Corbin, · Marilyn Crimmons (capt.), Mary Fitzsimmons, Diane Rortvedt, Mary Spalding ·and Ruthie. Zurcher. The jackets were earned by acquiring 30 points and by having rowed 2 full seasons. _The points were based on participation in ·crew. races. It is evident that women's crew has done nothing but-progress during the last 
2. years. With·, their combined· en­thusiasm and dedication, women's crew will undoubtedly continue to succeed in the future. 
-Debbie Kenny 
t~;;;;----. 

~ ~!~~~Tu~~-:~~.~-=-:~~f_i,:~;~~ 
;ti:~,~:::[i:7~~~~2~~-=~c'.c:S:=" 
. . 

~ -~-~>-·, ..,.--,,·_•_···:•~-rj-P---:_.,~ •-_-~.,...,....~...,t'..-.•,. ~.::-.~:·:· ~::---~-------~-·­
SCHOLASTIC 

Ski Club 
It is not too difficult to under­

stand why · the ·Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's Ski Club, especially the wom­
en's half, is nonexistent in the minds 
of many students. Ski terrain and 
enthusiasm for the sport are not to 
be found in Indiana. Relatively few 
of the ND-SMC students have ever 
skied . before. Besides;. women's 
sports are somewhat novel here and 
ac~eptance is hard to come by when 
the competition is the institution of 
men's sports at Notre Dame. 
The ND-SMC Ski Club was estab­lished three years ago, thanks to the enthusiasm and hard work of Stan ·Ripcho, currently a senior and cap­tain of the Ski Club. At that time in the club's history, the only female members were : -Janel Schliesman, now a SMC junior,. and Anne Haw­kins of Notre Dame, also a junior. 
Anne is the . women's captain but was unable to compete this year as a result of a knee injury.· Her role as women's team leader went to Miss Bartzen, a junior in her first year as a member of the club. Other racing members include Laurie McAllister, Nora Grace, Mary Carmel Burke, Mary Gillespie, Debbie Brodd and Carolyn Schiffels. 
A step toward the club's present and future success has been its or­ganization of teams and practices and the scheduling of outside com­petition. This year's calendar in­cluded five meets with both the men and the women taking part in each. The women's best showing was the Ohio Governor's Cup which they captured a year ago. This year, they came in second out of six teams in slalom and giant slalom competi­tions with Sarah winning top hon­ors in the slalom race. Among other meets were the Detroit News Cup and Michigan Governor's Cup. 
Even with this schedule, the Ski Club does not emphasize an all-out, competitive team spirit. Instead, it is more an organization stressing good times and "fun for everyone." Miss Bartzen continues, "The girls who race every week really enjoy it and wish that others would join the team. It is a situation where you can fall and crash, and still_ ­lau_gh about it. Occasionally, we'll break into a spontaneous rendition of the.Notre Dame fight song when we are sitting around after the races. We really have a good time." 

The enthusiasm and enjoyment exhibit_ed by the skiers makes _· it quite apparent that not only the women's team, but the Ski Club as a whole is here to stay and grow at the ND-SMC community. Recogni­tion and acceptance o_n the part of the student body are what the doctor ordered to ma.ke the women's ski team a viable part of this commu­nity for the years ahead. It _appears to be headed in that direction. . 
.-Mike Towle : 

Tennis 
There is an old adage• in sports which dictates that the character of a team reflects that of its coach. Indiana University's fiercely com­petitive basketball .teams closely: re~ semble their fiery mentor: UCLA's well~drilled, methodical Bruin round-ballers show striking similarity to their taskmaster, Joh_n Wooden. And if the pattern holds true for the Fighting Irish Women's Tennis Team, then a prosperous spring sea­son is in: the offing. ·For. in Dr. Carole Moore, the Irish. appear to have a coach who will settle for noth­ing short of perfection. With the season opener against IU at Bloom­ington on April 12 just a few days away, the squad, determin_ed in the fall by a school-wide· open tourna­ment, is going through its final . preparations under her watchful 
eye. 
Dr. Moore, who has been the main cog in the rapid growth of the wom­en's tennis program in this, its first year of existence, depicts her third team (one spring_ and one fall sea­son have been completed) as. •ia highly motivated group of women 
I totally committed to tennis." _She · mentions her· captain, junior Betsy Fallon _and her co-captain, sopho­more. Jane Lammers, as examples, but these words of praise. ~ight just as easily be describing the coach herself. "We financed ourselves last spring," she .proudly declares, i'by borrowing inoney from the_ student government." Today, thanks,. in part, to her persistence, in addition to that of her players, women's ten­nis is a _club sport and, if. she _has anything to say about it, will attain varsity status in the near future. On this touchy matter she pleads · her case, saying, "It would _be a· great help· to us, both financially and· psychologically," the latter_ of which she believes is more impor­tant. "The potential is there for women," she continues, "and it's 
· going to blossom . -with a little --help." The coach's .attitude is. not an uncommon one. among those asso­ciated with collegiate women's ath­letics. The prevailing sentiment ap­pears to be that women's -athletics on the college level are on the verge of a .giant-· step ··in -the _right -direc­tion. And justly so. Dr. Moore rea­sons, "Women ought to be allowed fo participate in sports on the same level as men." -However, head-to­head competition is ·the farthest thing from her mind.· "We .aren't out to prove ourselves to the men any more than· they're out to prove themselves to us," she says.· "It's just that up till now ·women have been denied this valuable:·growth experience/'-She ·. cites the oppor­tunity for women ·athletes to estab­lish close friendships with one an­other, in addition to the oft-empha­sized advantages of rigorous·•com­petition whether the participants are women:or men . 
-Paul Hess 

Golf 

The Women's Golf Program at Notre Dame can be ch_aracterized by the word infancy. As an infant has , trouble communicating, ~o too does the Women's Golf Program's prob­lem lie· with communication. "Com­munication is our biggest obstacle," remarked Team Captain Ellen Hughes, noting that the program exists unbeknown to many of the women golfers on campus. Notre Dame women competed in five away invitationals, as well as the Notre Dame "mini-invitational," won by Irish linkster Barb Breesman. The Women's Golf· Club had eleven ac­tive members· and an active Coach­moderator in Miss Astrid Hotvedt, yet the travelling squad was com­prised of only three members, Ellen Hughes, Barb Breesman and Barb 
Women's Athletic Ass'n 
Sports at du Lac is an understate­ment. . The mere mention of the name "Notre Dame" brings thoughts of Ara, Digger, Knute Rockne, foot­ball and basketball stories. The ath­letic prowess, building . body and mind into a complete education, seems very important, and there is no possible way anyone here can go through four years untouched by sports. · However, it is harder for some than others to get involved in the kind ·of sports .they want and these people are the _women at Notre Dame. 
Many women had noticed when coming to this university last year the lack of any kind of organized women's sports. Slowly the girls in­filtrated the gyms and some new: faces joined previously all-male teams: fencing, crew_ .and. skiing. However, the women's participation was termed as a "club" separate from the men. As more women joined the Notre Dame community, the girls' tennis, golf, basketball and field hockey teams were initiated, 
36 
Frey. These three golfers were in­eligible for the team titles at ·the away invitationals (teams are com­prised of five members) but turned in fine individual performances capped by Ellen's fifth-place finish at the Bowling Green Invitational. 
As for prospects for this spring and the future, "our immediate goal is to get the traveling squad up to five players," noted Captain Hughes. Steps are being taken to accomplish this, the first being the inaugural Notre Dame Women's Campus Open to be contested April 5. This tour­nament has a threefold purpose, the first and foremost to bridge the communications gap about the women's golf program, the second to p r o v i d e a tryout for the women's team and last, but cer­tainly not least, to crown the queen of Notre Dame golf. The second step will follow on the heels of the open by one week, as ·Burke Me­morial's fairways will be host to the first eighteen-hole N o tr e D a me Women's Intercollegiate Golf Invi­
but all still retained the club status. 
Last semester some people de­cided to do sqmething about it. The captains of all·the girls' teams got together and formed the Women's Athletic Association (WAA) to unify and try to establish varsity status. The WAA is dedica_ted to give direction to an organized niove­inent to gain recognition and help women become aware_ of what is going on in the intramural and in­terscholastic sports . and the differ­ent. openings for the women at Notre Dame. · 
Jane Lammers, president of WAA, states, "Right riow we are working on proposals for varsity status of the fencing, tennis, golf and basketball teams. Varsity status tational. With a tentative slate of Michigan State, Central Michigan, Bowling Green, Ball State, St. Mary's and the Fightin' Irish as the competitors the tourney hopes to be a boost to the women's program. The action does not drop off at this, as the Irish will be motoring to Michigan State and Bowling Green for invi~tionals in:· the weeks to come. 
In another effort to move the pro­gram on its way from infancy, the Women's Athletic Association has included golf in its proposal to .the Athletic . • Department concerning women's sports. ·The proposal in­cludes golf as a possible full-fledged varsity sport for women, and this action is certainly indicative of the Association's feelings towards the potential· contained in· golf program, female style. This endeavor along with the scheduled tournaments presents a bright future for women's golf here at Notre Dame, 1a future of almost certain growth. 
· -Tom Desmond 
means we are recognized and backed financially by the Un i.v e rs i t y." Money for coaches, equipment and travelling can be received. 
The WAA has three committees: information, development and pub­lic relations. The information covers 

, communications . between girls on campus and women's athletics. De­velopment is working with the Ath­letic Department •for ··future pro­grams, anci · public.· relations · is in charge of exposure through . campus media,, such as The Observer, Scho­lastic, WSND and other media. Lam­mers continues, 11I think coaching is the . most important. Now . we have people volunteering to coach us. I hope the W AA will stimulate and get things going in our. favor." 


· · The Student Managers Association, the backbone of Notre Dame's Athletic program, has recently apa pointed· the • head managers for the varsity sports in 1975. Dave Hadley, Dave Dempsey and Mark Navarre· have been appointed Head; Equipment and Office Foot­ball Managers, respectively. Jim Uriah ·will take over basketball; Bob Key with-hockey; Will Morrissey with track; Gil Johnson with baseball; Gerry Klimek with swimming; Steve Rush with tennis; Steve Euvino with fencing; and Craig Withers with wrestling. This group of individuals usually goes unnoticed at the sporting events in which· the Irish participate, but their help . throughout the years has made the Irish Athletic pro­gram what it is today. On behalf of the Scholastic I'd like to wish them the best inthe upcoming year. 
Spring football practice has finally gotten under way after a couple of· "snowouts," giving new head coach Dan Devine his first contact with his Fighting Irish. With an entire offensive line (with the exception of Al Wujciak) graduated, Devine and crew face an awe­some task of shoring one of the keys to the Irish at­tack. Defensive line coach Joe Yonto faces one of the more pleasant chores of any coach in the country as he welcomes back most of the number-one ranked de­fense in• the country. -Frank• Allocco, given an extra year of eligibility, appears to be the man to beat at the quarterback race for Tom. Clements' position, and Ken· MacAfee will be hard to beat at tight end. In­jured players Steve Quehl, Tim Simon and Bob Zanot return from season-long absences, and should play key roles in ·the new Devine system. Daily practices are • held at-Cartier Field and students are welcome to come and see the "Devine Age" of the Fighting Irish. 
The major league baseball season gets under way this week and 162 games after the New York Yankees start ·their schedule, they should find themselves in·· first place in the A.L. East. As for the other di-· visions, Texas (with ex-Yankee Bill Martin as man­
ager), Los Angeles and the New York Mets (with ·former Yankee player and manager Yogi Berra at the helm) will set themselves in the playoff series, with the Yanks and the Mets making it to Shea Sta­
dium for the World Series. 
The winner? Watch for the next issue. 
The California sun and girls did nothing for the 
Irish . Rugby team, · as they dropped ·all three con­
tests with California schools. Lack of some scrum 
members ·was one of the reasons for the poor show­
ing, according to team President Larry Casey, who 
now faces the task of rebounding from the past two 
weeks. A loss to perennially tough Bowling Green last 
weekend didn't help the situation, but if past deeds 
mean anything, much is still to be heard from the 
Irish Ruggers. 
-

The murky waters of the Harlem River brought dis­aster to the Irish Crew Midsemester break, where the Irish lost the right to retire the prestigious "Ewald Cup," finishing third out of three teams in the varsity · eight · race. Winning both·· the varsity four and .junior varsity race along .with the victory by the women's boat brought some consolation to the team, which 
now starts its home season on the St. Joe River. · 
Florida, the land of sun and beautiful girls, pro­
vided the Irish Lacrosse Club with one of their best 
series ever, with the Stickmen sweeping three games 
with MIT, FIU and the University of Miami. The win 
against MIT was particularly sweet, since it marked 
the first time the club had won its season opener. 
With the fine spring behind them, the club now 
opens their home stand with key games with Michigan 
and Lake Forest in the weeks to come. Games are 
played across from Stepan field, and students are wel­·come to watch one of the finest club sports-Irish Lacrosse. · -Bill Delaney 

Don't it always seem, to go You don't know what you've got till it's gone? 
They paved paradise And put up a parking lot.·~ -Joni Mitc7iell 
April may indeed be the cruelest month if we're not careful. And though it's not easy to be a voice crying out in the wilderness, never let it be said that Schouzstic didn't make some attempt to warn you of this unfortunate situation and its potential exacerbation. While the ad­ministration, student government, faculty senate, The Observer, and even the rectors and the hall staffs are concerned with questions of "student life" and other matters of great consequence for this campus, a real matter of life and death is receiving the attention of . only a dedicated, concerned minority. 
The problem is grass! 
If the normal process around here repeats itself'again this year, the grass shortage might reach · cata­strophic proportions. Students might even be forced to grow it in their rooms. Imagine . Farley Hall, for example, dotted with white window­boxes growing nothing butfgrass. 
There is, I suppose, a temptation 
to take this issue lightly, but I see 
the problem as seriously important 
and one which demands comment. 
Specifically, the problem is the 
systematic destruction of the campus 
lawns by hundreds of careless, 
thoughtless, heavy people; and, more 
specifically, the possibly futile plea 
of this article is that we cut out this 
abuse. 
The timeliness of this plea per­
tains primarily to the fact that each 
spring the University pays (and we 
all know where its money comes 
from) to· have the grounds seeded 
and yet many people see to it that 
this money is wasted and that these 
seeds never get a chance to grow. 
By walking along paths beaten to 
replace· the supposedly insufficient 
sidewalks, they engage in a per­
verted rite of spring making this 
campus a wasteland. 
by Jim Gresser 
The people who walk all over the grass, people who at first glance might seem quite humane, and at second glance seem more careless than malicious, fall into two basic categories: ~here are those who suffer from what I'll call the Grace­Library syndrome, and then .there are the corner-cutters. The results of the Grace-Library syndrome are exemplified by the ground in front of those two buildings where large plots of barren soil, hideously marred by plodding footsteps, de­lineate the most speedy traffic pat­terns. ·In front of Grace Hall the tundra follows a bee-line to the North, Dining Hall in spite of the fact that there are paved walkways leading to the exact same spot. Of course, if you take the sidewalks to the dining hall, or into the library, you might be forced to loose 3.8 seconds. 

The corner cutters are those folks who find turning corners at right angles not only disgusting but in­tolerable. The result is that the intersections of all sidewalks are bordered by a circle of uncovered mud. 
If you've read this far, perhaps you're thinking this is a waste of paper. 
Not so! 
The problem is one of nature and beauty and that makes it pretty im­portant.. And at the risk of sound­ing pretentious and of indulging in personal pet peevishness, let me say that if you see nothing wrong with walking on the grass there is some­thing wrong with· you. 


If there's nothing wrong with you and you can understand the problem of the grass, and I hope this includes most of us, you-should be prepared for the inevitable difficulties you face when you make ,the care of the grass one of your own concerns. It demands that you constantly con­front those otherwise intelligent and pleasant people who kill grass. The usual excuses they'll feed you are: "there's no grass here," or "every­one else does it," or "there should be a sidewalk here." 
Another common response is to accuse you of fanaticism and then to walkon the grass for spite. : 
The logical .flaws in all those ex­cuses arE;/obvious, but .perhaps the most difficult to deal with is the ac­cusation of, fana_ticism. This cause is not a fanatic one. No one is pro­posing that grass never be walked on.. No one is suggesting that those who walk on the grass be shot or otherwise physically harmed 
(though you'd .probably only have to , do it once). The suggestion is that the grass .be saved for oc­casions wheri it can be fully appre­ciated. and consciously enjoyed. In the meantime, the daily traffic should be kept off so the grass can grow; it's so much nicer to look at grass-than mud.. 
It is not Schouzstic policy to com­plain: about a problem and offer no suggestions to correct it. ·Putting up more wire-and-post .fences might be one solution. · Or perhaps a commit­tee or two could be formed to study the problem. I think, however, that the best solution for now is just to stay off the grass, right? 
Please. . . . · 

;, 
Join the 
third biggest 
·lamilyin the),world. 
Imagine an order of 22,000 priests and brothers in 73 countries around the world. (That's a pretty big family.) 
But that's what the -,:,· Salesians of St. John Bosco_. are all about -a large family · of community-minded men dedicated to the service of• youth. (And no one gets lost.) 
_ 
In Italy in the 1800's a chance meeting between a poor priest and a street urchin served to create a movement of such success that it is still growing today. Don Bosco became the priest who brou_ght youth back from the streets -and back to God. · 
He reasoned that a program of play, learn and pray would -make useful citizens of the world. He crowded out evil with 'reason, religion and kindness in a (what was then unheard of) 
atmosphere of family. The ideals of St.John Bosco are still with us today. His work goes on in boys clubs, technical and academic schools, guidance centers, summer camps and missions. And his very human approach is very evident in the family spirit of the Salesians. This is the way he wanted it. Thisis the way it is. The Salesian' experience isn't learned -,-it's lived. 
----~~~-------,I 
Form-ore inf--ormation abou-t s_alesia_n P_. rie-sts and · 
I

Brothers,-mail this coupon to: ·. .
·, I Father Joseph :,affei, s.o.e. · Room A-106 I Sales1ans~::~;.'.?.:"s:i~~?Ny 10802 II 
I I am Interested In the Priesthood D Brotherhood D Nam Age 
1

I 
Street Address---------======~---__-------:~­
I City Stale Zip 1 
I 
Phone 
1 

Education-----------'------------­~ Your Current Job -----------------1
-~-.al!III--------­
Ride a Bike For the Retarded 
Sunday, April 27 
For local details contact Logan Center: 289-4831 
Sponsored by Indiana · State T eachets Association and Indiana Association for Retarded Citizens ­
. ' 

.. • 
. I• Seniors, t.ak~ a little: bit of. ND with ·· you ·n~xt ·year. 


order . ··· Scholastic • I'. 
and ·get :J1ews analyiis, in-. ­
depth sports, ithe .. Juggler. ·. 
and the Football. Reuie·w~· 
For orlly $5'.00, ·•. · 
. ,_ : ;,: 
• ·;... ~ "I" 
,·
NOTRE DAl\lE SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 

Please send .me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for ...... years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $ .......... L........... ...................,CASH 
.......... : ....... CHECK 

Name ............................................................................... ·... . ........ ,,------. --..........-..-·--·--·-----········· ........................................·-----. 
. ' 
Address ......................~,......................................................~. . ............................................................... ' ........................................ ·................. ;__ 

City ....................................... / .............................-·........ · ... . 
_.··.:....
·~.· : , 
•• I • ' • 
_, I-
State .................................. · ................ ·... Zip ................... . 
( 



