

ONE 18--INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR$12.00 EVERY DAY 
11.9 U.S. 31 {just north of campus) Open for carryout,delivery &dine-in 
• . . 1J :00 to 1 :30 Lunch .. . . 
4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to "fhursday . 4:00 to11 :00 Friday and Saturday . 

273-3890; 
·"All Homemade -100% Rea/cheese'' .· · We offerFREE DELIVERYto Notre Dame's.and ..· .. Saint Mary's campuses. 


Bai Jo's 
Noodle House 
Chinese Cuisine // 

Check out the issues you missed last year 

www.nd.edu/ ~scholast 


M A G A z N E 
Animal House 


San Diego. Washington, DC. Philadelphia. South Bend is rarely included in any list of cities with great zoos, but South Bend' s own Potawatomi Zoo is nothing to be scoffed at. Boasting animals from around the world, the zoo offers something for children of every age, even college students. by Joseph Gallagher 
Password Protected? 8 
In an age where e-mail has practically replaced the post office as a means of communication, a break-in on the campus­wide computer network can strike fear in a computer­dependent community. by Tina Zurcher 
Flying Saucers ~ 
A century ago, college students invented the frisbee when · a couple of Ivy Leaguers made flying disks out of their cafeteria plates which had been manufactured by the Frisbee Corporation.Today, college students are bringing it to a new level with groups like Notre Dame's ultimate frisbee team. by Tom Repetto 
The Cost of Service by Jake Mooney 10 Spinning Success by Jeremy Sony 13 Restricted Parking by Anne French 14 Life of the Party by Melissa Kalas 20 Out of the Shadows by Corey Spinelli 22 
·~,,-.;..,..iii,i((' 
Southern Comfort by Jennifer Johnson 26 
' 
lL 

?; 0 \ Departments 
~ 

0 a: From the Editor 2
a. 

Cl) Letters 3
lL 

Cl) >­0 ND Notebook 5 
w 
l­

a: Man on the Street 7 5/ Campus Watch 12 
-u 

Splinters 21
2 

-:r 0 Out of Bounds 28 
a. 

On Other Campuses 29 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME•OCTOBER 8, l 9 9 8 

0:::: 
0 
l­
o 
w 
w I 
I­
~ 
0 
a::: 
LL 
Welcome to the Notre 
her natural habitat. There's just something about watching and observing a strange creature that attracts people. It's the lure of the zoo. 
Beyond the Notre Dame campus, South Bend offers another zoo, the Potawotami Zoo. The animals are a little tamer, but just as fun to look at. For our cover story, Joe Gallagher spent some time with the mon­keys and turtles this week. You can read about his adventures on page 16. 
Dame Zoo Also Inside 
It begins on Thursday afternoons before football weekends. Older people dressed in plaid and ear-to-ear smiles start mill­ing around South Quad, asking for direc­tions to the bookstore, which they're usu­ally standing beside. Footballs go flying across campus and 12-year-olds appear in the student section ofthe stadium. There's a line at the grotto and you can forget about going out to eat or finding a parking space, period. There's popcorn, peanuts and sud­denly not enough sidewalk paths to choose from. Parents, relatives, friends and com­plete strangers take over, walking through DeBartolo, peering into dorm rooms and eating at the dining halls. So why do they come time after time? What are they looking for? Beyond the normal pilgrimage to the sta­dium, they come to the zoo that is Notre Dame out of natural curiosity. They want to spy. They want to feed the animals. They want to see the Notre Dame student in his or 

You probably got the e-mail three weeks ago and deleted it without a second thought. But what you didn't read might hurt you. Hackers are getting the hang of breaking into the Notre Dame Computer Network. Tina Zurcher looks at the university's com­puter security problems, the possible solu­tions and how this affects you on page 8. 
The Notre Dame Law School encourages students to take part in public service. But unlike many other law schools, the univer­sity provides no means for students to take these often low-paying jobs in the face of accumulated debt. Jake Mooney looks into the problem on page 10. And if you've always wanted to spin the wheel with Vanna and Pat but never had the guts to do anything about it, check out Jeremy Sony's story on page 13. 
Help Wanted 
Scholastic is now accepting applications for Campus Life editor and assistant Cam­
pus Life editor.We' re also looking for more writers, photographers and page designers. Ifyou are interested, particularly in sports 
writing, call the magazine at 1-7569. 
~~ 
Managing Editor 
36 Years Ago: 

Curfews, and 
More 

The September 28, 1962, issue of Scholastic described some disturb­ing new rules that applied to the freshman class. 
Unlike upperclassmen, freshmen have their electric power shut offat midnight, get only three midnight permissions a week and are required to attend study periods set up by the rec­tors. 
Freshmen have cause for hope, how­ever. One Freshman Hall rector told the Scholastic: "/tispossible that, ifthe first semester goes well, the freshmen will be allowed all-night lights." 
Can't let them get too crazy. Next thing you know, they'll be asking for coed dorms and permission to drink in the halls. 
-MWS 



SCHOLASTIC
2 
MAGAZINE 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 


Women have valid opinions 
about sports 
Dear Editor,
Isincerely hope that I am not the only student (male or female) on campus who noticed the hypocrisy hidden within the latest installment ofouresteemed Scholastic Magazine. The September 24, 1998, installment focused on the issue of gender discrimination that seems to be all too prevalent on this campus. While I have no comment on the articles directed at this issue, my complaint comes from the seem­ingly neutral "Man on the Street" segment. Photographer and Managing Editor Allison Fashek forgot that there are women onthis campus who care about the home run chase just as much as, if not more than, the men on campus. 
I mean no insult to Ms. Shannon or Ms. Fashek. I merely wish to point out that there are several women who could have offered a more relevant response than, "Who are they?" If this particular issue was intended to promote the view of women on campus as intelligent, informed, competent people, then why print such a degrading portrayal of women? Printing this only strengthens the discrimination that women face on this cam­pus. Why encourage people to look upon women with the ignorant stereotype that we know nothing, nor care about sports? 
There are several reasons why this over­sight by Scholastic has hit me so hard. Maybe it's because I'm from St. Louis and have followed the Cardinals since I was a child. Maybe it's because I myself have been wrapped up in the chase since Mr. McGwire was just a few "long ones" short of breaking the record last fall. Maybe it's because I've always been a fan of the game itself. My reasons for writing are notimpor­tant. What matters is the fact that women do care about issues such as baseball, football, hockey, etc. When asking aquestion con­cerning the "people" of Notre Dame, let us not forget that the female population also has an informed opinion to offer. 
Rosemary Sage Senior, Lewis Hall 
r­
m 
-I 
-I 
m 
;;.c 
(./') 

OCTOBER 8, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
3 
MAGAZINE 


FR. ZACHARY HAYES 
Prof. Of Systematic Theology, Catholic Theological Union 
"The Dynamic ofLove in an Unfolding Creation" 
Library Auditorium October 16, 1998 7:00pm Reception Following Library Lounge 
Fr. Hayes' sharing of .TEILHARD DE CHARDIN'S vision oflove is especially relevant for our time! 
$5.00 Charge Free with ND/SMC Student I.D. 
SPONSORED BY: i.•~~~~ICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
4 

SCHOLASTIC OCTOBER 8, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


PULP FICTION 

Brand New 
The dining halls have changedjuice brands ­but NDH is a bit behind 
s you toted your tray around the food leftover from purchases made in the sum­
A
stations in the new South Dining mer. "We have a lot of product. We have to 
Hall Food Market or manuevered past run through the remainder of the stock be­the new seating arrangement at North Din­fore we can switch over to Sunkist," Bowles ing Hall, you may have noticed a change -says. this time in the juice you drink. Along with Employees are pouring the leftover juice the addition of a Burger King in the Huddle only at North Dining Hall, however, while and a Starbucks in Reckers, the dining halls those who dine at South are now enjoying have joined the brand-name craze. Both the Sunkist brand. No exact reason for the dining halls switched juice companies from juice disparity could be given, but Bowles the Vitality brand to the widely known believes it may have something to do with Sunkist. the extra space available at North. "I think it 
According to Purchasing Manager Dan might be a storage consideration," he says. Crimmins, the change stems from a number Sunkist will soon replace Vitality juice as offactors, including service, cost and taste. thirsty students polish off the remaining North Dining Hall Operations Manager stock. But for now juice inequality remains. Barry Bowles also notes that Sunkist offers Let the picketing begin. a higher quality product. The most influen­-James Pastore tial factor, however, was label recognition. "The LEFTOVERS. An NDH employee fills the juice dispensers 
biggest difference is that with a Vitality brand juice. 
peoplefeelmorecomfort-'·. ;·• able with the brand name," Crimmins says. 
Despite the change, ob­servant students who fre­quent North Dining Hall may have noticed the Sunkist machines being filled with Vitality brand juices. The reason for the ~ •&: · continued use of the Vi-~li""'i~., tality brand lies in the fact 8 
:a 

that the dining halls pur-m chase juice by the truck-:::, ~ load. The Vitality juice is ~ 
tt1}i!,lx~t1~:l'i~"~tfifi~Itft;f!r,tt~t~~:i1i;~ti~2lt~02t~1~ 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 


Mary Szekendi 

Audio-Visual assistant manager 
As libraries go, Hes burg hLibra,y is pretty darn big. In the midst ofits endless stacks, members of Hesburgh Libra,y' s staff are often casually overlooked, despite the im­portance oftheir jobs. One ofthese employ­ees is Ma,y Szekendi, Audio-Visual assis­tant manager, who has been working at the second floor for almost a year. 
What is one word that you would use to describe your position on the Audio­Visual staff? 
I would say challenging. The most impor­tant is the challenge of understanding the very service that you are providing-music. 
What is your most memorable experi­ence? 
For me it has been constantly memorable. It is very exciting for me to meet the professors and students and learn more about them. 
How do you feel that you rank in seniority at the Library? It is interesting that you ask that question, because as a matter of fact, the library re­cently changed certain levels of certain de­partments. I am currently a permanent part­time worker. 
Several students have stopped working in the Audio-Visual Center after very short periods of time. Do you have any idea why this is so? 
As far as I can recollect, the students have always been pretty consistent and diligent. 
Does tension and/or anger between stu­dent workers and "real" workers like yourself ever arise? 
No. Never. If there ever is a problem of any sort, it is immediately addressed. continued on next page ­
SCHOLASTIC 5 
MAGAZINE 



~ 
Q&A 
continued from previous page

0 
0 
How many hours a week do you work?

cc 
29 hours. I would prefer more, but I am also 

LLI 
on call for security, so it is difficult to keep 

l­
o 
those two from conflicting. 
z What annoys you the most about the Audio-Visual Center?
0 
Oh, that is easy! Students always come up to

z the desk and ask for "that movie" with "that guy" in it and expect me to somehow absorb the picture from their mind. 
How do you provide yourself with suste­nance during your tedious work day? 
We are usually allowed 15 minutes to run downstairs and get food and drink. It seems like ample time. 
What have you learned from working here? 
I have learned that the students, professors and others of Notre Dame are an extremely professional group. 
What is your favorite type of music to listen to after a long, stressful day? 
Something soothing, for sure. I would have to say that it is Beethoven's Pastoral Sym­phony. 
-John Crisham 
FRESH.MEAT 


SPINNING WHEELS 
Putting the Pedal to the Metal 
The university niay be buying more bike racks 
According to du Lac, Notre Dame is a pedestrian campus. Access to central campus is restricted to walkers, bladers, boarders and bicycles. Of these, biking is fast becoming the most popular means of getting around campus, and bike rack space is growing harder to find. A recent Notre Dame study found that roughly one out of every five students owns a bicycle. The limited bike rack space, espe­cially in high traffic areas, poses some prob­lems, including the disorderly pile-ups that occur outside the dining halls, DeBartolo and around dorms. "Because there aren't enough bike racks, people lock their bikes up to trees, railings, and other bikes," says freshman Missy Lydigsen. Also, many students are con­cerned about security for their bikes. Junior Andrea Wald says, "One ofmy friends had locked up his bike to itself, as many people do, so you can't ride it. And somebody just carried it away and stole it." As a result, the Student Senate is cur­rently considering a proposal for the pur­chase of new bike racks, citing sightliness and safety concerns. 
Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk believes the problem is one of disorganization. "The problem is that most existing racks may not be in convenient locations, so students leave their bikes wher­ever they please," Kirk says. He believes students need to change their habits. "[We need to] let [students] know where the exist­ing racks are to prevent random bike park­ing and to take 
PILE-UP. Classtime bicycle pressure off piles, like this one outside the most of DeBartolo, may be 
spurring the university into 

popular 
action.

racks." 
Kirk still thinks more racks .might help. "Per­haps it would be a good idea to increase the number m convenientlq­m G) 
!;

cations," he () 
:t>

says. :s:: 
-Luciana -0 0 
(J) 
Reali 


f\/lq.king a~···Impag. 
FreshmaJi:Tony ·Weavef.·iS;-;nl°ak_ing•.hispres~~ce'felt·.·.Waily·Oh 
•' •, •' • .,c ,_; •, . •; •• ' . ',. ••:,; ;•_ • ,' ;.:.,• •.' ',,' ;,_ '•,•• ,,,·, .' '-/ • • ', ·•_• ,:·,,•-•:•••-. ,' ,.s ," • •; '" ',': ••• • <:: 
··1··.·· fyoulo6kcfosely, you will see num expecf.to strirtJh{s y~~r." .··.•· -> .<·>·... < . · ..•. ·. size and }fri11gth, bu(here>6veryone·• is 
•··...·. ber18 comingout 6fthetu~elon the ..··• H{c:ert;inly-hasst~pped•illto a'goocf ; cbastcally<th~: same athletically;. ;This is. •· ... ·. ·.. ·.. backof!his y¢a(s "The. Shirt.'' Go~. situation and (lone an out1tangi~gjob. , \Vhent~chnique comes into:play :,,weaver• . ing'int~ tl{e Mid!igangarrie no onekn~w •. Agaiilst·theStanford .·. Cardinal he.· wa~ re~ . . ;.adds ]hat;~eJ1ad U, leg-up on tµ~Ujther ·. whothatplayer\vas~.·.·..· .···.• ... ·.· ..··· ... ' .. sp6ns1bi~for'one pass:.br6~~up ahctiJJ; '.Jreshn1~n bt:cause,ofhis'super-iofknq',\IF / .)\ft~rfC>ufg~me~1nostirishfai;ishavt: ·;tackles; . edgeoftec.hniq11e)·' }'' .·.••·.. ··•· ·.•.··.·••··.•· .. . figured)t out.-gr~shman 'Tony ',Yeaver •.. ?:H~ ad~its thath.e. h~s-fel(thf stress of•. _: .'Ta111:c,nly _25Q•pouri~s;,~d L gq, ,up· . ··ha{filled'tnatjerseyquite capably'while ··. starting ~s;a-freshriian,though.•.•·•ih6 'first.·.. . ag~instguys whc,'.Veig~around3QQeyery .·.·star:ting at defensive-end;"StaricFng-6'4''.· · C()llpleofgam~slfdtstl'essed because Ifelt.·..·•... weeklhave t() us~ mytecruiforieto oyer­·.. anriieighingin~~t 250pounds{Weaver. . HkeI~asNstbeU1gthrownin-vayfo&qufok•··..... \ometheir size acl;antageX·• .• ) ,,-.•.;....· .. ..••p6ssess'ys thfo~ize wmake an in1pact as a \Vl1en.• I really had .riot}eanied thesysiem,·t/ : The.I~~t_Iri~h defe~siteJirle111rui'to.stait ·· .. · fr~shtjia6._''l3t1tJn~xer exp~cted to ...• b'.e •. : .he,sayS;• ','l'{oi,; tlmugh,l,fo~fr~ally COI11\·.. :··hisfirstgani~~s afreshmaniias'.NFEHall .· 'piaying@s:~arly;''.Weciversays. ''I.came. •-·•forta?le.'..{get~•. littlebi\~or~ C()IllfofrabJ~.-.i•·..·~fFirn¢r Rosi/]3rq\'Vner -·If,We~\7e~ ever 
in.Jtis(wantipg·.. tli be·611Jhe'trayel· squad .·. :e~ch·g~~-·\ 7-). ,,{\j:<({:,'.>: '. ·. X,•.·. _'.;··.••·isllo~s.·t~f~al'Ile·111§~~sfa~ hi;;:#r~dec~~-..· andpl~y ~S}()Olfas.· po~sib,lf•• r haye:ju~t\ ,,-:I<mY. creditthis gighjcljo·91 ;p611cl1,w}th-··.·.·.·.·.··.•sor;1ookf9rJlieiri.sh.ro begih;dominadng . 
•.'·••·•::~y\{1WJJ·f:~i~ljr;~}t~uf/Jt}~6;·: 
~~;t:tit~i~(~:J0/f~Jfflli~ijfybl~:,·•.·t~e.·ienchesiii:yeqr~•.t:·~J.~tiJiJ%e;· 
6 

SCHOLASTIC OCTOBER 8, 1998 
MAGAZINE 



Why do students_· . playNJ~tendo_ ._... fathei-.than -de~bate··• 
. : :.: ·..... : ... ·. .. ·. ..·. ,.: 
c~mpus issues? ·· 

,. , . 

. , ';'P~~ple'jrtst avoid;thos~·~ubjec~1¥-. C' ••. cause[they];_don't care or they c1bn·.1·· ;,: ~ant)c:> fu,ink'about.it 1'hey' have: :: pthet-tliings\>n thek'rrrinds/1.;>·. :;· ... 
. ·._, . •., 
.z·-·--~-­
~j 
. ~I 
:S::I 
~j 
z·· 
··=>:-:-·...;., • 
.~:-1~{/. 

<.-( ._.-t·" 
\. ~· 

·}]Ii
:.--:· 0 
}}.ji_ 
:· .~ .: 
-: ~. ~~---:.· 
. ;·-·,~:-->:·.. ··' 
.:-::.,.:,._ .',:\·.. · ... /):,::;:):{{;,:':\\.)~ 

OCTOBER 8, 1998 
WRITING 
REASON 
What's a university without debate? 
BY Scarr CULLEN 
t was another late night in the dorm. 
Assignments were due and people were 
procrastinating. That's when the juniors 
in my section broke into a number ofheated 
arguments about topics such as racism and 
affirmative action. Strong opinions were 
articulated with the aid of strong wills and 
the temperature within the section rose. 
As the RA, my initial instinct was to try to 
calm the situation down and send everyone 
back to the modem opiate known as Sony 
PlayStation, but I stopped myself . 
I realized that what was going on was not 
an infringement on community living. It 
was the essence of what education ought to 
be. These students were sharing their 
thoughts and talents in an open exchange of 
ideas, in this case, one that led to extensive 
disagreement. Still, I was taken aback by the 
scenario in my hallway . .At Notre Dame it 
seems to be the exception rather than the 
rule. 
In its last issue, Scholastic ran an article 
on Notre Dame's lack of success in produc­
ing post-graduate scholarship winners. One 
of the noted causes was the lack ofa devel­
opmental writing program. It was suggested 
that Notre Dame students were not produc­
ing application essays that measure up to the 
rest of the crop. The implication is a bruise 
to the ego of any student here and it raises · the question of why. 
Another possible reason was the fact that 
students were not realizing the opportuni­
ties that exist or didn't know how to obtain 
them. These explanations seem plausible as 
factors in the problem. But they are not 
sufficient reasons in accounting for the lack 
of success recognized by Notre Dame stu­
dents. The cut goes deeper than that. 
Quite simply, Notre Dame is an environ­
ment where academic pursuit ends as stu­
dents rush from the doors of DeBartolo 
Hall. While there is no doubting the capabil-. 
ity of our academic community, there is 
I
cause to question whether we as students are carry_ing our academic pursuits with us be­yond commitments in the classroom. Un­fortunately, apathy is a word that often finds its way into descriptions of student life on our campus, particularly concerning the area of extracurricular academics. 
Academic proficiency and academic pas­sion are two distinct entities. On the whole, our community has an abundance of the former, but lack the latter. Can we really assert that we are a community ofacademic excellence until we can claim a balanced combination of both? 
More conversations like the one I ob­served in my section last week need to happen. The essence of an academic com­munity lies in the exchange of ideas be­tween people. _ Forinstance, misunderstandings between racial and ethnic groups at Notre Dame is clearly a problem. Yet one of the main complaints of minority students is that the conversation remains one-sided. The "typi­cal" Notre Dame student never shows up at forums and lectures to consider the issue unless free food is offered. This is not a community where a free flow of ideas is taking place. 
The Notre Dame we know today is a work in progress, still striving for the ultimate vi­sion set out by Father Sorin, to be the greatest Catholic intellectual institution in the world. But ultimately this vision can't be obtained without the realization of a community of ideas and a strong dialogue between faculty and students. 
Rhodes Scholars will only develop from an intellectually nurturing environment. The availability of information and coaching of applicants might help, but until we develop an atmosphere fostering intellectual creativity our applicants remain at a disadvantage: . 
The opinions expressed in this commentary are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of 
Scholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
~I 
)> 
Zi 0 
z 
-i 
I 
m 
(./) -i ;iC 
f 
m 
m· 
-i' 



(/) 
~ 
: UJ 
z 
PASSWORD PROTECTED? 
THE OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES TAKES EXTRA PRECAUTIONS TO GUARD AGAINST A RECENT HACKING 
PROBLEM 
BY TINA ZURCHER otre Dame is a computer-dependent
N
campus. Roughly 6,800 PCs, 1,900 
Macs and 700 UNIX machines are hooked up on campus, not to mention all the off-campus computers with network access. A breach of network security in the system is a threat to the privacy of thousands of users' communication ability and stored information. 

About three weeks ago, someone com­promised this security by placing a program called a network sniffer on Darwin, one of Notre Dame's mainframe computers, for about three days. A sniffer is a "device that hackers or people with malicious intent can put on a network and actually look at every packet that goes down the network," says Dr. Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost of the Office of Information Technologies. The sniffer can capture multiple users' in­formation without anybody being there to monitor it. 
"Someone did this very deliberntely, but we caught it very early on," he says. "Typi­cally, the network sniffers are pretty trans­parent. ... It's conceivable that someone could put one on, get the information out and remove the sniffer before you ever knew it was there." 
Rapagnani compares the sniffer to a wire­tap on a phone. Like a wiretap, a sniffer has 
PROTECTING INFORMATION. Charlie Underly is one of many OIT employees who is working on new ways of protecting the Notre Dame computer system from hackers. 

a good use if operated as intended. Engi­neers often use sniffers to debug networks. But people can also use sniffers to find confidential passwords. With these pass­words, hackers can log into a person's e­mail account and can check information stored in his or her AFS space. Conceivably, the hacker could even send e-mails to a class from its professor's account, canceling classes or adjusting assignments. 
"Someone did have access to the system but didn'.t use any info from what we could detect. The only way to really check that is to contact every user," Richard Sudlow of the OIT says. 
Sniffers can be placed on the campus network only in certain areas described by Rapagnani as being "under lock and key." Normally, network administrators are the only persons with access to these areas. Sudlow says, however, that a recent break­down in policies and procedures occurred, giving student managers access to the re­stricted areas. 
"We're not saying for sure that that's the compromised area, but we don't know yet," he says. 
The university has had problems with computer security in the past, most notably three years ago when the system was shut down for several days and completely re­built. The OIT traced the problem to a Notre Dame math professor living at Yale. Some­one broke into the professor's account from Connecticut and gained access to the Notre Dame network. 
"We had to start over because we weren't sure of the overall security of the system," Sudlow says. 
Because of the great number of people affected by computer security problems, penalties for guilty parties are severe. Bill Kirk, the assistant vice president for resi­dence life, says that the infraction is treated under the usual disciplinary procedure. First the OIT submits a report of the suspected violation to Student Affairs. Next is a letter to the suspect, followed by a disciplinary conference and finally a decision. Removal of computer privileges, including e-mail and online access, is common in such cases. Kirk notes that this restriction can severely handicap students in ~lasswork and com­munication with friends and professors. "A good rule of thumb is: 'Don't abuse your prtvileges,'" he says. 
Kirk adds that students often do not real­ize· that their computers can cause them legal trouble as well as university disci­pline. Improperuse ofmany programs avail-
OCTOBER 8, 1998 
able online can lead to civil lawsuits. For example, users can download files of songs from the Internet and play them on a com­puter, but it is illegal to duplicate and dis­tribute these sound files without the copy­right. 
Due to all the possible problems with computer security, the OIT has been warn­ing users of the breach and reminding them to change their passwords. "People are sup­posed to change their password on a recur ­ring basis." That's about every six months, Rapagnani says. 
Also, the OIT has begun to brainstorm about possible ways to enhance security for the Notre Dame network. Sudlow says that a Computer Emergency Response Team has been created. Its goal is the heightening of computer safety awareness. 
Another option under discussion is the encryption of information on the network. Encryption scrambles messages between the computer and the server and counters breaches by a sniffer. As for its effective­ness, encryption is nearly impossible to break. "Once you start using encryption, the government, if needed, cannot understand what type of business you're conducting,'' he says. 
Encryption has a For example, if a student were to pose as a professor through e-mails to his or her classes, the OIT would be able to figure out who the culprit was. "Most people doing it don't do it right," Sudlow says. "We can track down 90 to 95 percent of people be­cause we can check the IP number of the sender, which most people don't realize." 
Another security measure is already in place. Because of the immediate network setup, someone able to use a sniffer has access only to the traffic of one machine. According to Sudlow, all of the network machines are separated, cutting down on the amount ofinformation a hacker could gather at one time. 
Regardless of the steps taken to tighten computer security, users are left to wonder when the next problems will strike. For them, a security breach is especially diffi­cult to deal with because no matter how careful they are with their own information, they can do little against a network sniffer. Rapagnani hopes that people will behave according to the OIT' s acceptable use policy, which is posted online. 
"It's like rules of the highway: as long as everyone's abiding by the rules, we'll have nice traffic,'' he says. 0 


FOR EMERGENCY USE ONLY. The files located on the AFS downside., th0ugh. To servers are backed up daily in case of problems with the system. encrypt a message, 
both the server and the user need to in­stall encryption pro­grams. For people using Notre Dame computer labs or their own permanent com­puters, that would be a minor detail. But Sudlow says, "Unless off-campus users have their software with them, they won't be able to log in." 
Last week Sudlow attended a conference that considered a firewall. The instal­lation of this mecha­nism would allow traffic to be filtered both on-and off-cam­pus, making it a more feasible option. .
z 
G)

Currently the OIT 
m 

can easily handle ~ 
0 

most threats to the ;::. network's security. 0 en "(J 
SCHOLASTIC 9 
MAGAZINE 




The Co$! of$crvicc
(J) 
$ 
w 
z 
Notre Dame's Law School insists that public service is important, but compared to other top schools ,it does little to niake post-graduate service 
feasible. A report to law Dean David Link will address this concern 
BY JAKE MOONEY rom the first moments of the admis­
sions process, Notre Dame Law School 
stresses to applicants the importance of serving the community. The first page ofthe school's application boasts, "The Notre Dame Law School works to sensitize stu­dents to the need to focus on justice and other values." Potential students are in­formed that the admissions committee gives "strong weight" to applicants' commitment to community, and that the school aims to produce "a different kind of lawyer -a Notre Dame lawyer." 
Often, though, students who want to pur­sue employment in low-paying public inter­est jobs face a tough decision between con­tinuing their commitment to the community and paying off tens of thousands of dollars' worth of student loans. And unlike Michi-
F

There's alWa!)S alot oftalR about ... wor'1ing empowers 
you in a lot 

for peace andJustice and change, but ofdifferent 
ways, but

there's not alot ofmoneu in that endeavour. 
gan, Boston College, USC and several other top-25 law schools, Notre Dame does little to assist service-minded students in over­coming their debts. Many students must choose between public interest jobs, which offerrelati vel y low government-funded sala­ries to serve poor clients, and more lucrative positions with law firms. . 
"There are a lot ofpeople who want to go into [public interest law], but when you get 
10 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

down to it, they can't because ofdebt," says Judy Fox, a Notre Dame Law alumna who is now a supervising attorney in the law school's legal aid clinic. "It's very hard to take jobs paying $20,000 to $30,000 when big firms are paying $60,000 to $70,000." 
New York University, whose law school ranked sixth in the nation this year in U.S. News and World Report, tries to make sure that its graduates never face such a di­lemma. Abel Montez, coordinator ofNYU' s Public Interest Law Center, says, "We don't want you to come as a student and not be able to go after your goals of serving the public." He explains that through its loan assistance program, NYU gives money to graduates who make less because they work in public service. 
"NYU will basically pay your debt for you if you qualify," Montez says. "What this law school believes is that you get an NYU de­gree and it 
that em­power­

-cunthia Norgan 
mentgives 

you a re­sponsibility to the commuriityat large," he adds. 
Cynthia Morgan, president of Notre Dame's Public Interest Law Forum, wants the university to do more to foster that same sense ofcommunity at Notre Dame. "There's always a lot of talk about being social jus­tice lawyers and working for peace and justice and change, but there's not a lot of money in that endeavor," she says. 
Although Notre Dame has had a loan 
forgiveness program for some time, the 
program no longer receives funds, render­
ing it largely ineffective. In contrast to 
NYU's program, "We don't have a very 
good loan forgiveness program here," Fox 
says. "Ours exists in name only." 
Kathy Pieronek, associate director of the 
law school, refuses to discuss the university's 
reasons for not maintaining a working loan 
forgiveness program, but says that a com­
mittee of students and faculty members is 
working on a report that will address ways 
to increase participation by students, fac­
ulty and alumni in social justice law. 
The committee plans to submit the 50­. page report to Law School Dean David Link 
by the end of the month. He will then evalu­
ate its recommendations and pass them on 
to the appropriate university offices. 
According to Morgan, who is a member 
of the committee, part of the report will 
discuss ways to financially support students 
and graduates entering careers in public 
interest law. She says that in order to fund 
debt forgiveness for 10 to 12 students per 
year, a university program would have to 
build up an endowment of approximately 
$20 million. A large portion of this money 
would have to come froin alumni donations, 
an area in which Notre Dame Law School is 
lacking, partly due to its size. The school 
graduates about 175 students yearly, com­
pared with over 400 at NYU and 300 at 
Michigan. 
"Being small, you don't have the flow of 
alumni money that other schools do," Mor­
gan says. 
Being a small school is not necessarily a 
valid excuse for not having a loan forgive­
ness program. Stanford University, which 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

U.S. News & World Report ranks second in the nation, typically has graduating classes the same size as Notre Dame's, and Stanford has a successful loan repayment assistance program for graduates who take low-paying public interest jobs. 
Notre Dame Law School's problems also have to do with a second issue that the committee's report to the dean will address: public interest law's lack ofprestige. "Some­recommend increasing the number of courses specifically geared toward the area and propose establishing an honor society for alumni in public interest law. 
Morgan's organization, the Public Inter­est Law Forum, grants fellowships to Notre Dame law students interested in working in public service during the summer. Last year, students requested $60,000. The group was able to raise and distribute only $23,000, important thing." 
Morgan also sees a discrepancy between the position the Law School expresses in admissions material and the one it demon­strates in its treatment of public service issues. "Notre Dame Law chooses every person who comes based not just on aca­demics or test scores but on what kind of service they've done," she says. "You're constantly inundated with this type of ser­vice you're supposed to be performing, but we 
don't have the outreach 

We don't have avery good loan forgiveness program here ... 
or the classes." 
Ours exists in name only. 

times people look at public interest as not as important an area," Morgan says, pointing out that nationwide, 10 percent oflaw school graduates go into public service, while at Notre Dame only two percent of graduates pursue service careers. 
In an effort to improve the situation, the report will suggest ways to get people more interested in public service jobs. It will 
Morgan says that things are looking up-Judy Fox though, as evidenced 
though. As Fox says, "There is more interest than economic possibility." 
Fox believes that as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame has a responsibility to foster this interest in public service. "Especially at this university we should be doing more to help students do this," she says. "We adver­tise ourselves as a place where public inter­est and commitment to other people is an by the Notre Dame 
alumni board's adoption last week of all of the committee's recom­mendations for alumni. 
Now, the committee must hope for a vote ofconfidence from the same administration that in recent years has allowed support for graduates entering public interest law to dwindle. Morgan is optimistic. · 
"Itjust wasn't a priority before," she says. "Now it is becoming a priority." D 

We've got 
our eye on you! 

scfi.olastic Magazine 
is looking fqr a Campus Life editor. Applications are now available in the 
scfi.olastic office in the basement of ­south Dining Hall. 
Call 1-7569 for details SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
61{<:lennessee·Williams· 

•thmRltilli~ 
Wed., Oct 7 
7:30 p.m.. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 
7:30 p.r:n. 
Fri., Oct. 9 
7:30 p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 1O 
7:30 p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 
2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 

Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·8128 
.OCTOBER 8, 1998 



THE G I P P . OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 
(_,~illl?((s
dt,(~ f...,......,~......,,.....,, 
ftlatc~ 
efore he. begins his column, th.e Gipp 
would like to thank ESPN analyst Lee 

Corso for making last weekend's win even more fun. Lee, whose predictions are generally as accurate as his facelift is con­vincing, picked the team whose mascot is a tree to beat us. 
The Gipp was glad to hear about the pick, though. If there's anything more fun than beating up on a bunch of snobby rich kids, it's doing it while their favorite senile old uncle is watching. 
Which Circle is For Hypocrites? 

The Gipp has some disturbing news for the God-fearing people of Notre Dame: the very same infirmary that you have always trusted to maintain your health is in fact a tool of the devil. 
This news may come as a surprise, but it comforts the Gipp to know that Notre Dame's administration will be more than happy to damn the 
her. They did, however, give her a flier with tips on how to sleep better. One tip in particular caught her eye: "Use your bed only for sleep and sex." 
The Gipp is shocked! Shocked to learn that members of the Notre Dame family would knowingly encourage their brothers and sisters to live a life of sin. They should know from the example of the Women's Resource Center and GLND/SMC that we don't tolerate non-Catholic thought around here. 
The Gipp recommends that those respon­sible for the flier be burned at the stake, along with all divorced people, Protestants 
(a.k.a. heretics) and others who violate 
Catholic doctrine. After all, it's university policy. 
Death From Above 

The Gipp was pretty excited about the football game Saturday. His favorite part was when he smacked a 
October sky. 
Apparently, the culprit hatched his plan during the Purdue game, when he decided he had been hit with one too many sugary treats. "I thought the marshmallow thing was getting old," he explains, and recalls announcing, "Next week I'm bringing fish and putting an end to all of this." 
The most refreshing thing about this story, in the Gipp' s opinion, is thatthe fish-tosser's creative spirit continues to thrive. At the next game he plans to unleash a brand new secret weapon in his war on marshmallows, though he won't say what. Bring your rain­coats, folks. The Gipp will be wearing his. 
At Least Their Priorities Are Intact 

People worried about what will land on them during the Army game need not worry. Stadium security is on top of things -sort of. While fish carcasses crisscrossed the student section sky, an Indiana State trooper threatened one student with jail time for tossing harmless old marshmallows. An usher joined in, demanding that she give up her ticket book. She was able to get away, but it was a moral victory for the cops, who can rest assured that because oftheir intimi­dation of this dangerous criminal, South Bend is now free of violence forever. 
Thou Shalt Not Covet X-treme Soft Drinks 

In this world gone mad, it is comforting to know that there are still a few lonely voices of reason to maintain order and keep Zahm guys from consuming too much caffeine. 
One Zahm staffer, whipped up into a frenzy of law enforcement by a new dorm rule prohibiting open containers, fined a resident $10 for drinking in the hall. Drink­ing Mountain Dew, that is. 
Maybe he was worried that students' "do­ing the Dew" would lead to outbrea):cs of skydiving, snowboarding and other radical activities. The Gipp isn't sure. He does know for sure, though, that Student Affairs should keep an eye on this guy. Bill Kirk (pictured on the cover) isn't getting any younger, and the Notre Danie Gestapo will need a new henchman someday. 
Common sense, ofcourse, is not required. 
That's all the Gipp has for now, every­body. He's proud ofypu all for being so irresponsible lately. Keep it up over the break, and if you break any com­mandments remember that you can always confess to Father Gipp. D 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

whole building and its staff to the fiery pits of hell, just like they do to all univer­sity offices that con­tradict Catholic teaching. 
The story: an in­somniac Lewis resi­dent went to the infir­mary seeking help. Since penicillin doesn't cure insom­nia, the infirmary staff couldn't help 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


little kid in the head with a marshmallow during halftime. The Gipp only regrets that he missed that old lady. 
Spectators had an even messier problem than marshmallows to worry about during the Stanford game, though. Some guy smuggled two filleted red snappers into the student section, and sent at least one of the creatures fly­ing across the blue-gray 

~ --------• --1~ ­
I • -, .. -­



With what these guys won on Wheel ofFortune, they could buy more than just a vowel 
BY JEREMY B. SONY 
contestant stands nervously behind 

Jl 
the wheel, watching as it passes 

bankrupt and narrowly evades "lose a tum". He breathes a sigh of relief as the spinner lands safely on the $350 marker. Most have only thought about it, living vicariously through the contestants they watch. But two Notre Dame students have spun The Wheel and lived to tell the tale. 
"I was being loud and goofy, and I guess they liked that," junior Andy Ankowski says about his audition for "Wheel of For­tune.: Ankowski and junior Tony Guzzo were among thousands in Ohio who flocked to an auto-mall that day. Some came wear­ing "I love Pat" shirts, 
some wore "Wheel"-in­"Pat [Sajak] was hilarious. [We're]really definitely go at it again," he 
spired jewelry, and some says. 
just made fools of them­good friends now, I assume." Ankowski and Guzzo both 
selves. All were hoping for a chance to solve the puzzle on national television. 
When Ankowski didn't get a call the next day, he assumed he wasn't Wheel material. That all changed when he received a letter days later. It was an invitation to the second part of the audition process in downtown Columbus. Ankowski went and won a T­shirt. He thought the game· stopped there. "But I didn't feel too_ bad because I'd al­ready won a T-shirt and had a great story to tell," he says. 
.Guzzo was also invited to the Columbus auditions and he fared a little better than Ankowski, landing himself an alternate spot for the shows being taped at the Ohio State Fair later that summer. Unfortunately for 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 
Guzzo, none of the scheduled contestants got stage fright or even mild food poison­ing, so he didn't appearonTV. It's tough to actually become a contestant on a game show, as these two students learned. 
But after a few more weeks, Ankowski and Guzzo both got their breaks. The pro­ducers were taping College Week on Wheel of Fortune in October and they warited Ankowski to be on the show. But the Wheel gods seemed to be against Ankowski from the start. A blizzard blanketed Colorado and prevented him from flying to California, though he did eventually make it to the studio a month later. 
Guzzo, on the other hand, avoided all blizzards and other natural disasters when players realize this, they can get nervous. 
"I got nervous for like 10 seconds, but then it passed, and I got out there and it was fun," Ankowski says. The contestants credit Wheel of Fortune Host Pat Sajak with eas­ing their nerves. "Pat was hilarious," Ankowskisays. "[We're] really goodfriends now, I assume." I 
But neither could say the same for Vanna 
I

White. "Vanna stayed over by her board and wasn't very friendly," Guzzo says. 
Despite Vanna's coldness, both agree the whole game-show experience was fun and would do it again. Ankowski is hoping that he'll be invited back for "Favorite Contes­tants Week," which would make him one of the few people invited to do the Wheel 
twice. "If I got the call, I'd 
did well on the show. Both

-TonyGuzz.o 
won trips, Guzzo to Bermuda 

he was scheduled as a regular contestant. He managed the lights, the cameras and the audience with few problems. "I was ner­vous at first, until I won enough money to pay my dad for the plane ticket," Guzzo says. "Once the nerves wore off it was fun." 
Neither of them could have predicted what it would be like to be on the show. "When playing on the show, there are things you have to worry about that you don't at. home," Guzzo says. Ankowski agrees. "When you 're playing, you're distracted by everything: spinning the wheel, figuring out . what letters you want to guess and which have been played," he says. It's not the easy game it is at home in the living room. When and Ankowski to Hawaii. Beyond the trips and cash though, both contestants say they have learned from their experience. "I learned that it was worth it despite the odds and I'm more likely to go out for stuff like that now," Guzzo says. 
"I learned that I am one lucky bastard," Ankowski says. Anyone who won a trip to Hawaii and some cash would probably feel that way too. 
Was it worth it? All the waiting, practice puzzles and airfare, just to be the one who solves the puzzle and wins the bonus round. Ankowski thinks it was. "All I did was spin 
a damn wheel," he says. If only life were that simple.  0  
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE  13  



w 
LL 
...J 
(/) 
::J 
CL 
:~ 
<( 
u 
,~ >;/i\(s\:>..•-.· .···.·... 

·tr1·Cte
._, -~l~/~·' ·?F ·,,_ 

.,,~,:,~ifa~; • 

Ill 


Excuses, excuses-that's about the only thing that 
will get your car on campus 
BY ANNE FRENCHAstudent nervously pulls up to the East Gate. Her fists clench and her eyes narrow with determination as she pauses next to the security booth. Her eyes meet those ofthe uniformed man within the enclosure. "I need to get on campus to help a friend move some furniture," the young woman says with a calm, yet defini­
"I think people are more prone to sneak on campus ... since they can't park anywhere near campus. I always say I'm going to Bible study." 
tive tone. The guard thinks for several sec­onds before finally saying, "All right, you have an hour," as he hands her a temporary permit. The student accelerates past the lifted gate with a triumphant smirk and drives on toward her dorm. There will be no long walk from D2 tonight. 
Scenes like these are common for stu­dents who will use any excuse they can to get their cars on campus. Students who want to drop off friends at their dorms or avoid walking from one of the outer parking lots with a heavy load often get past the guards with made-up excuses. Junior Marie Wartinbee admits not being totally honest with the guards, who decide what a valid excuse is on a case-by-case basis. "I think people are more prone to sneak on campus to make up excuses since they can't park 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

anywhere near campus," she says. "As for myself, I always say I'm going to a Bible study." 
Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Se­curity and Police for Notre Dame, be­lieves drop-offs and pick-ups are not good reasons for the able-bodied to drive on cam­pus. Also, students who wish to avoid walk­ing from the outer lots at night are not permitted through the gates since Safe Walk 
-Marie Wartinbee 

is provided by the university to ensure their safety. "Cumbersome items may be a valid excuse for getting your car on campus," Johnson says, "but when there are several people in the car and they can each carry something, I don't see a walk from D2 or D6 as a problem." 
Some students wonder why they need an excuse to get on campus with their cars. One reason Johnson gives is the limited number of spaces available on campus. "If there's no legitimate place to park, why should we invite kids to drive on campus?" he says. "Even when we issue the hour passes, people just park illegally, leaving their cars over­night to clog fire lanes." 
Freshman Jake Hansen disagrees. "Iknow there aren't many spots, but I think students should be allowed to park on campus in the spots that are available on afirst-come-first­serve basis," he says. 
A possible_ solution to the problem is to add more parking spaces on campus. Ac­cording to Johnson, the university is con­structing 450 new parking spots on part of the old gqlf course. D6 South, as it will be called, is being built to accommodate more of the students, faculty and staff who work and live on South Quad, but more parking 
·will not be added to central campus. "We want to minimize traffic on the central cam­pus in order to maintain the pedestrian na­.ture," he says. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life, agrees that cars on campus should be kept to a minimum, "The pedes­trian nature of our campus is the envy of many other universities," he says. "Stu­dents should take a step back and look at what a tremendous asset it is." 
"Students don't realize the policies are here for their own protection," says day shift Captain Joseph Araman; who super­vises the gate security guards. "We value the good of the whole over the convenience of the individual." 
Although many students express frustra­tion at not being allowed on campus, some understand· the reasons behind the restric­tions. "This is a campus, not a freeway," senior Lenny Andrie says. 
Junior Rick Holcomb, who works for Student Security and Parking Enforcement, says, "I have a car and it's frustrating to think I pay $28,000 a year to come here and I can't even drive my car to my dorm." But Holcomb won't fault the guards. "My job 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 


has made me realize, though, that when the guards are restrictive, they err on the side of safety." 
Junior Sam Johnson understands why cars are kept off campus, but sees certain dis­crepancies as a problem. "I just think it's ridiculous that people who are non-students can get in easier than students," he says. 
Johnson says that while it is the security team's goal to treat everyone equally, cer­tain visitors to campus such as parents or visiting speakers are given special consid­eration. "When a special guest comes to your home you give them special treatment. Parents and certain other visitors are our guests," Johnson says. 
Few students would disagree that parents or visiting speakers should be allowed to park on campus, but some students are con­cerned that parking is not provided for other non-student, non-adult visitors to campus. Junior Brian Mink says students' visitors aren't given enough options. "When my girlfriend comes to visit, they won't let her drive on campus," he says. "They make her pay to park in the visitor's lot out by the Hesburgh Center." Students like Mink ar­gue that if campus is their home, they should. have the right to invite their friends to visit without having to pay to park far away. 
Sophomore Erin Burke sees compromise as an essential component. "Student's visi~ tors should be allowed to drive on campus during the day, but should just not be al­lowed to park overnight," she says. 

Students aren't the only ones who com­plain about having to walk from perimeter lots. Professor Susan Harris, who is teach­ing at Notre Dame for the first time this year, recognizes that there are plenty of spaces to park. "The problem's not getting a spot, it's getting one anywhere near the buildings I need to go to," she says. 
Professors and other employees do not have to pay since free parking is considered a benefit of employment. Off-campus stu­dents, however, are not so lucky. They are required to pay the full $75 fee to park at the off-campus student parking lot south of the JACC. 
Brian Stone, an off-campus fifth-year stu­dent, agrees flooding central campus with· student cars should be avoided, but thinks the university doesn't accommodate off-campus students as much as they should. "The administration needs to make a better effort to provide for the needs of the stu­dents, like a 24-hour parking lot for off-campus students to park in when they're studying," he says. 
the spaces closest to their destinations and therefore avoid the long walks. "I've said it before and I'll say it again; we want to do what's best for the Notre Dame community and that involves having the majority of parking on the perimeter of the campus to maintain the pedestrian nature," Johnson says. 
But the dissatisfaction of students is not going unnoticed. A gate committee was formed early last year to review the rules for getting on campus. Thecommitteewasorigi­nally comprised only of officers, but when they surveyed opinions of the gate regula­tions and found that students filed the ma­jority of complaints, they added two stu­dent positions to the committee. "The secu­rity department is very concerned about getting student's opinions," junior A.J. Boyd, one of the members, says. "They know the complaints and continue to dis­cuss possible solutions." 
Many agree that having a pedestrian cam­pus is a wonderful asset. But it is yet to be determined how much personal sacrifice the Notre Dame community is willing to make to maintain it. In the meantime, unless you can come up with a better excuse than moving furniture at 2 a.m., you'd better 
Johnsonrecommended professors and off-_ . bundle up and brace yourself. It's going to campus students leave home earlier to get be a long walk onto campus. 0 
-~ 
·'
),,\~ ·i 
i,....,.:;..;. .• 
"";,,.~ 
. -~~l 
. --~~--~... 
~,-·~_::.-~ 






AINIY ~jg£(Q)jg~SS £~jg 
probably wondering why a stu­dent magazine would do a cover story on the Potawatomi Zoo. After all, there are more than enough fascinating activities oc­
curring on campus, and Turtle Creek alone offers enough ofa zoo-like atmosphere for South Bend. But by the end of this article, most students may wonder, "Why the heck hasn't there ever been a front-page story on the zoo before?" Indiana's oldest zoo is located only 10 minutes away from Main Circle, yet most students seem to have no 
idea that it exists. 
The Potawatomi Zoo is relatively small, but its exhibits are designed to be both eye­pleasing and functional. Since 1977, the zoo has updated its exhibits and expanded to 22 acres of space, a large improvement from its former state. "They've made a lot of big improvements and built a lot of things," says Mary Cenkush, a South Bend resident who visited the zoo as a child. "The animals used to be behind cages but now they've_built moats to keep them in." 
Some parts ofthe zoo offer pleasant scen­ery in addition to exotic animals. A wooden gazebo overlooking a pond full of fish, an old-fashioned barnyard full ofdomesticated animals, a small island full of chimpanzees and many well-kept paths leading around the animal exhibits can all be found within the zoo's boundaries. Naturally there are a few cages, but most animals are housed behind thick panes of glass instead of bars. 
A common idea about zoos is that the animals are unhappy in captivity, or that rare animals should be allowed to roam in the wilderness rather than be put on display. "Maybe 20 or 30 years ago zoos were just about presenting wholesome family enter­tainment, but now it's t[!ming more to con­servationofendangered species," says Karen Harringto,n, Education Curator of the Potay.,atomi Zoo. While some zoos care more about visitors' comfort than the ani­mals themselves, the Potawatomi Zoo strives to make sure that its animals are well cared for. One indicator .of quality is the fact that the "zoo smell" common 

to some animal ex­
©li»~INI WU@~. The king of the jungle shows off the weapons 
hibits is noticeably 
that keep him in charge. 

SS'ii'~INl@DINI@ 'ii'~Il..Il... Like the Siberian tiger and gray rhea, lacking in bizarre or the American flamingo makes a unique addition to the zoo's exotic animals. One os­menagerie. 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 
absent. In fact, on av­erage the Potawatomi Zoo probably smells better than most male dorms on campus. 
Being in Indiana, one might expect that the Potawatomi Zoo wouldn't offer that much variety. There are the standard do­mesticated animals like pigs and ducks wad­dling everywhere, and of course the omni­present South Bend squirrels darting from tree to tree. There is also an animal dubi­ously labeled "Jungle Cat," which looks exactly like a normal cat except for longer limbs and tufted ears. Yet these are only part of the zoo's vast collection, which include snow leopards, wallabies, South African gazelles, fruit bats, Burmese pythons and even a Siberian tiger whose roars can be heard throughout the park. "Some people from big cities say that they've seen bigger zoos, but most people seem pleased with the zoo and the animals," says Jessica Rogers, a zoo employee. 
The zoo is hardly trich-like bird called a rhea followed every visitor that walked by with its eerie blue eyes, its snakelike neck moving its head in all directions. A lion scared a group of children by suddenly opening its jaws and letting out a small roar. At Notre Dame, tourists snap photos of the ducks and geese, but few drive 10 minutes away to see pea­cocks wandering loose around the zoo. It's hard to believe that such an international collection of animals live in Indiana, since they offer such a contrast to the flat land­scape and gray skies of South Bend. 

So why bring an animal from sunny South Africa all the way to overcast South Bend? A major reason is that modem zoos offer the opportunity to conserve and preserve wild­life. A teacher's guide to the Potawatomi Zoo states that one of its purposes is "cap­tive propagation of threatened and endan­gered species" -in other words, controlled breeding ofendangered animals. While zoos seldom remove an animal from the wild, it is sometimes necessary when the popula-
SCHOLASTIC 
17 
MAGAZINE 



tion of a species becomes too small. After a population drops below a certain point, in­breeding may occur, causing sterile off­spring. 
One of the ways the Potawatomi Zoo helps its endangered species is through the Species Survival Plan, authorized by the American Zoo and Aquarium Association. "Different zoos participate in different Spe­cies Survival Plans," says Harrington. "These people are professionals who gather to discuss how the animals should propa­
18 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

gate. We might sit down and decide the Lincoln Park [a zoo in Chicago] has a snow leopard genetically unrelated to one at the Potawatomi Zoo; let's put them together. Or we might introduce a contraceptive if two animals in the same cage are genetically similar." The end result of breeding endan­gered animals is not to keep a stock of rare . animals on display, but to reintroduce them back into the wild. Recently a Golden Lion Tamarin (resembling a monkey) was pro­nounced ready to leave the zoo, a remark­able achievement consider­ing that only 550 of them now exist in the wild. After a brief "boot camp," in which it was taught how to hunt, fight and live on its own, it was flown to Brazil and re­leased into its natural habi­tat. 
Though the past two de­cades have seen great im­provements in animal care, most of them have been be­hind the scenes. In the past five years, the zoo has intro­duced many improvements that offer visitors both enter­tainment and education. Many of the signs on the ex­hibits have interesting bits of trivia that provide a glimpse into the background of the animals. The Sacred Ibis of South Africa is called a "chimney sweep" because it rakes or "sweeps" out the in­sides of dead birds. Pigs are billed as "Living Pharma­cies," since they provide us with medical necessities like estrogen, heart valves and cortisone. 
The zoo also offers special tours for those interested in a more in-depth look at animal care. A "Flashlight Safari" offers visitors a behind-the­scenes tour of the zoo after hours and a "Zoo Snooze" allows children five and older the opportunity to sleep over­night at the zoo. For those bored with the Army game, the zoo offers a haunted "Zoo Boo" complt~te with treats and entertainment, much like the "Zooltide" party for Zoo 

Society Members in Novem­ber. In its quest to educate people on the value of the natural world, the zoo also offers field trips, educational programs taught both within the zoo and at various schools and "loan boxes" that contain vid­eos, artifacts and planned activities for stu­dents. In addition to these more private tours, the general public is able to enjoy the improvements made to the zoo in the last few years, thanks to the generosity of spon­sors. 
A new chimpanzee play area, a renovated 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 


Eurasian carnivore exhibit and a new Red Barn Gift Shop are only three of the numerous improvements now on display, but the most impressive new addition are the "ZooKeys," sponsored by KeyBank. A "ZooKey" is a little plastic card that looks kind of like a Happy Meal toy, available for two dollars at the entrance. 
You insert the "Zoo Key" into one of several "ZooKey" stations located around the zoo, with each station con° taining information on an ani­mal exhibit nearby. Inserting the card with front side up plays a song, while inserting it upside down plays a recorded message about the animal in question. 
The lyrics to the songs are classic: the tortoise song notes 
that "The Galapagos turtle doesn't gallop at all," and the wallaby song managed to rhyme "marsupial" with "un­usual." Bob Dylan it ain't, but the flip side of the card does reveal some interesting facts about the animals. 
The directions to the Potawatomi Zoo are for much longer, and the zoo closes for the simple: take Ironwood south to Jefferson winter in January. Enjoy it while you still Street, take a left and follow the signs to the can. The zoo's quality may surprise you ­zoo. But hurry-with South Bend weather and best of all, you get to keep the ZooKey it will be hard to enjoy the animals outside as a souvenir. D 
LEWIS HALL 3rd Annual 
Friday, Oct 9th 5:00-7:00 PM at the Lewis Sand Volleyball Court 
Live entertainment! Food! Prizes! 
Teams of 5 (coed is okay) $5 registration fee per team---sign up there! 
All proceeds benefit Camp Albrecht Acres 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

LLJ 
Ll.. 
....J 
(/) 
Life of the Party
:J 
0.. 
~ Tired ofthe average dorm party, many students 
<( 
have co1ne up with a new theme
u 
BY MELISSA KALASThere's a knock on your door. You spring from your desk in hopes of finding your best friend or at least the Papa John's delivery man, tum the knob and gasp. Three mobsters are standing in the doorway. They present you with a sealed envelope. No words are spoken as they disappear around the comer. Hasn't happened to you yet? Be pre­pared. The seemingly confidential docu­ment was actually an invitation to a theme party, an increasingly popular trend at Notre Dame. This particular party was the idea ofjun­ior Dan Strobel, a resident of Keough Hall who organized a Mafia wedding, complete with bride, groom, garter belt and photogra­pher held in the dorm's basement last year. "My friends and I got sick of the bar scene and off-campus parties so we decided to throw a Mafia wedding," he says. Strobel and his friends came up with the idea after many viewings of The Godfather and even incorporated some of the movie's characters in the event. They invited 60 of their friends, and gave an identity to follow on their invitation. Among those personali­ties were murder victims and kleptomani­acs, who had to steal something from the room. "It was a lot of fun but a lot _of work," Strobel says. "Everyone loved the idea of playing a different part and not having to be yourself for a night." Among those present that evening was junior Loma Sanchez, whose invitation re­quired her to dress in a sequin gown, echo­ing the roaring '20s. "It was great to go out and shop for a costume and then see what everyone else was wearing," she says. . Other students have also created themes for their parties. Senior Liz Scharpf held a Lethal Weapon party to reunite with friends she hadn't seen after traveling abroad last year. "We were sitting around one day play­
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

ing with fake guns and one of us suggested we throw a Lethal Weapon party," she says. 
Scharpf's party didn't boast mysterious mafioso pounding on the doors ofthe guests -instead, she decided to let everyone know by word of mouth. "At first, [the guests] were questioning the theme. The hardest part was explaining the party to everyone," she says. Those in attendance included Ha­waiian gangsters, a Notre Dame football usher and a killer pizza delivery person. 
Alumni Hall students exhibited similar creativity at an '80s party. "The '70s theme had been overdone and the '80s had a differ­ent retro look," junior Drew Brennan says. With their sweatbands and flipped collars, the collection ofpunk rockers, Springsteen look-alikes and even an '80s racquetball player danced to the music from a time when Madonna and Cindy ruled the airwaves. 
Pangborn hasn't missed the theme party rage either. The dorm's base­ment section held a Hawaiian gath­ering a few weeks ago. People dressed in costumes ranging from Jimmy Buffet to grass skirts landed in sophomore Anne Kordenbrock's room. However, she had a different motivation for hosting this party. "It was our 'offprobation-·on vacation' celebration," she says. Kordenbrock and her friends had the unfortunate experience ofbeing at Bridget's dur­ing the night oflast year's bust. This was their first party since finishing their probation. 
Why do theme parties seem to have more success than the typical party or even the SYR? "I think it brings a more festive atmosphere," Scharpf says. "People dressing crazy makes them act crazy. They enjoy the creativity." 
Brennan agrees. "When you have a regular party, you need a lure to get people there," he says. "[With theme par­ties] you can show what you have and how creative you can be." 

"In some majors, people aren't challenged to use their creative capacities," Sanchez adds. "It's nice to break out once in a while and use creativity." 
Whatever the theme, these parties have been enjoyable for students willing to take a break from the routine of campus life and create a memorable night for their guests. 
Don't be surprised if the next party you hear about requires wearing something a little unusual. D 

SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Corey Spinelli 
Men's Hockey• 1998 Record 1-0-0 
Streaking: Left wing Aniket Dhadphale scored his first goal of the season in Saturday's 2-1 victory over Wisconsin in Madison. Dhadphale is looking to build upon his 25-goal total of last year. Prime Time Performer: Senior goalie Forrest Karr showed that he is more than capable of filling the shoes of saves record-holder Matt Eisler by tallying 30 saves against the Badgers. Did You Know? The Notre Dame-Wisconsin game served as the the annual Hall of Fame game to commemorate the beginning of the collegiate season. On the Horizon: The Irish play this Friday and Saturday at 7:00 
p.m. at home against Lake Superior State and Western Michigan. 
Football • 1998 Record 3-1 
Streaking: After dropping two of its first three games at home, the Irish have won six straight under Bob Davie at Notre Dame Stadium. Prime Time Performer: Senior quarterback Jarious Jackson ran 18 times for 100 yards and three touchdowns and completed 11 of 15 attempts for 163 yards against Stanford. Did You Know? Arizona State is the first new opponent on the Irish schedule since Vanderbilt in 1995. Notre Dame has won five straight contests against first-time opposition. On the Horizon: The Irish travel.to Tempe, Ariz., to take on the wounded 2-3 Wildcats at 2:30 p.m. Saturday, South Bend time. 
Women's Soccer • 1998 Record 10-1 
Streaking: The Irish completed their six-game homestand in dominatmg fashion, outscoring their opponents 27-0. Prime Time Performers: Four players scored two goals against Georgetown. One of them, Monica Gerardo, moved within three goals of Cindy Daws'all-time record of 61. Did You Know? Notre Dame has outshot its opponents 328-69 this season, outscoring them 51-6. On the Horizon: The Irish begin a six-game road trip this Friday in Chesnut Hill, Mass., against Boston College. 
--. 


(/) 
-0 
0 
N 
--1 
(/) 

Women's Volleyball • 1998 Record 6-5 
Streaking: The Irish snapped a two-match losing skid with two convincing victories over Seton Hall and Rutgers this past weekend. Prime Time Performer: Notre Dame freshman Kristy Kreher tallied a career-high 13 kills, seven digs and five assists in the 15-7, 15-1, 15-7 victory over the Scarlet Knights. Did You Know? The Irish have won 78 straight games versus conference opponents. On the Horizon: Notre Dame heads east this weekend for three games againsi Connecticut, Fairfield and St. John's. 
. 


. Ro~dblock? .. ''Did we takiasiep fonvard? We'llJindout next weekag~inst Ari:!ona State. This game ccimi11g up willtellus ex~ctly: where . ·weire atY)'{otr~ Dame defensive coprdinator.GregMatt/$On,plac(ng. t/ie. Irish's 35-1 ?Stanfordyictory in p,:operperspec,tive: 

. . . . . :Corey's~ Can .. . . . . 
·.· Under :Bob IJavie, t4e:Id.sh are}ust 3~5 awayJrnm,hcime.\V'hilethe Wildcats have µnderachieyed royally· thus far, expect . themtoplay,well Saturday (seeJvfkhigan State),Aft~r. four games, all we really :kJlow rs: thatMichiganisn't that good, we ...• ·. wefo,hicky to·beat Purdue, and we're better than 'a 1~4 Stanford team. lJntH Davie showssCJme consistency mi the road, it· is difficuHJo go with the. Irish; Arizona State, 3Q:.24.: .· · .. ·. ·. ...• . ·•· · ·. . 
. . . . . . . .. . . . .Hamilton's Hunch 
· Beriefitting froriithe ·game's time change· to 2:30 p.m'., the Irish off6nse will ·ccmtinueto impress,.~uti;~oring'.i\fizoria .St~tej8~27,. 
21

OCTOBER 8, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

(/) 
I~ 
0 
CL 
Out of the Shadows , 
(/) 
Long overshadowed by the women's soccer team, the men's soccer program looks to establish its own identity 

BY COREY SPINELLI As summer gives way to fall in South Bend, the changing colors of the leaves signal just one thing for most Notre Dame fans: the advent of a new football season. Bob Davie's 22nd­ranked unit gamer the lion's share of national attention, and the leftovers are usually heaped upon the second-ranked women's soccer team. Irish followers tend to overlook another kicking Notre Dame squad that is increasingly improving its national profile. The men's soccer team has qualified for three of the last five NCAA tournaments, ad­vanced to the Sweet 16 in 1996, and is currently ranked 22nd in the country in the latest NSCAApoll. Head Coach Mike Berticelli doesn't mind the lack ofme­dia attention, for now, but one day he hopes to elevate his program to an elite level. To date, Berticelli has posted a 92-67-13 record at Notre Dame. "We're not where we want to be just yet," the coach says. "We're getting there, however, and once our midfielders grow more com­fortable in their positions, we have a chance to be very, very good." The 1998 version of the men's team is already prov­ing itself capable of com­
THE CAPTAIN. Matt Johnson ls hoping to lead 
the Irish back to the NCAA tournament following an off-year in 1997. 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

peting with the top programs in collegiate 
soccer. After allowing a goal just 1 :27 into 
its first contest against a ranked opponent 
thisseason,NotreDameoutscoredseventh­
ranked St. John's the rest of the way, earn­ing a hard fought 1-1 tie with the 1996 national champion Red ' Storm. "When we play together as a . team, we feel as if we can com­pete with anyone in the coun­try," senior co-captain Matt Johnson says. "Our main problem this season has been letting teamsjump outtoearly leads on us, which· immediately puts our backs against the wall," he continues. "We .need to begin games with the same intensity tha(we finish them." Notre Dame's oppo­nents have scored first in the squad's last six contests this season, resulting in five 8 consecutive overtime games. § The Irish are 1-1-3 in overtime fl this year. "Due to the recent $ overtimes,Ithinkweareinbetter , f shape than our competition," ' ~ Johnson says, "and our fitness pro­! gram gives us an edge on the field. 
;:)J 
~ We feel that we are one of the top two 

§ teams in the Big East this year, and if we improve our consistency we think we_ can win the conference champion­ship." 
Berticelli agrees, noting that the 1998 team is an extremely focused group with high expectations. "Without a doubt, the strength of our team this year is the chemistry the· players have with each other," he says. "This team has the best chemistry and character of any squad I have coached since coming to Notre Dame. They work hard and get along really well with each other. We have a group of players this season withastrongworkethicwho believe that they can win games." 

The team returns seven starters from the '97 squad, which advanced to the Big East semifinals and has veterans at nearly every position on the field. Berticelli feels that the leadership displayed by his experienced players enhances the performance of his unit. Senior co-captains Johnson and Phil Murphy are the primary leaders in '98. "You couldn't ask for better captains than -Johnson and Murphy," the coach says. "They're great models both on and off the 
· field. Their leadership, along with that of all ourupperclassmen, is animportantfactorin our success this season." 
Johnson, Notre Dame's iron man, has started 72 of 73 games in his career and Murphy, a former walk-on, started20 games last season. 
Replacing the two leading scorers of '97, Ryanturner(12goals,fiveassists)andBill Savarino (four goals, six assists), figured to be the most difficult task for the Irish. But the sensational play of freshman Shane Walton has erased any doubts concerning the team's ability to put the ball in the net. The forward from San Diego, Calif., leads theteaminscoringandhasbeennamedBig East Rookie of the Week three of four times this season. Walton, who scored 45 goals and tallied 25 assists in high school, netted seven goals in his first seven collegiate conte~ts, including two game-winners and the game-tying goal against St.. John's. "Shane has obviously had an immediate impactalready,"Berticellisays. "He is very exciting to watch, because he's athletic, 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

quick and good in the air." 
While the play of the explosive freshman has turned heads on cam­pus, Walton hasn't let this affect his ego. "I had great coaching in California that prepared me to play at this level and I have high expec­tations for myself," Walton says. "I consider it my role on this team to score. The individual honors are nice, but all I care about is contributing to the team's suc­cess." 
Walton is assisted in the scoring department by fifth-year forward Scott Wells and juniors Andrew Aris and Ryan Cox. Wells started 18 games last season and led the squad with eight assists while Aris started nine games, tallying three goals and four assists. 
It is Cox, however, who is sec­ond on the team in scoring this season. "When Ryan is healthy, he has a chance to be one of the best forwards in the country," Berticelli says. A Big East all­Rookie pick in 1996, Cox has re­turned to the lineup after playing in only two games last season due to ankle injuries. The forward al­ready has three goals and a team­high six assists in '98. Walton and Cox are currently one-two in scor­ing for the Irish, accounting for 29 of the team's 49 points. 
Defensively, the Irish are led once again by goalkeeper Greg Velho. The senior has played ev­
---, 

ery second ofthe last 39 contests, 

logging 3,706 consecutive min-East; utes in the net. Velho boasts a .900 overall goals against average and an .848 save percentage after seven games this year, and tied a-career high with 12 saves against St. John's. According to Berticelli, Velho' s intelligent decisions in the net and his high confidence level make him one of the top keepers in the nation. 
In the defensive backfield, Notre Dame's key players are Murphy and fifth-year David Cutler, who combined to start 36 games in '97. Sophomore Stephen Maio, along with junior Matt De Domi_nicis, round out an experienced baqkfield. "Our defense has been solid so far, and with Greg [Velho] in the net, we'redifficultto score on," Johnson says. 
Seniors Johnson and Ben Bocklage head 

OCTOBER 8, 1998 
the midfield unit. "Matt [Johnson] is the heart and soul ofour defense in the midfield and displays great composure with or with­out the ball," Berticelli says, "while Ben brings experience, aggressiveness and ex­plosiveness to the table." In addition to strong defensive play, the duo combined on six goals and four assists in '97. Sophomore Connor LaRose has proven a capable cen­tral midfielder through the team's first con­tests. 
Junior Matt McNew and sophomore Reggie McKnight also contribute to the midfield. McNew has switched back to his natural position after spending his first two seasons at sweeper. McKnight is looking to build upon a successful freshman campaign in which he scored four goals and tallied three assists, good enough for fourth best on the Irish. 
The 5-2-3 Irish are one offour_ nationally ranked teams in the Big East in the latest NSCAA poll. Connecticut, St. John's and Seton Hall are all ranked ahead of the Irish, who must raise their level of play if they hope to win their fourth berth to the NCAA tournament in the last six years. "Ourgreat­est strength has been our greatest weakness 
· thusfar,"Waltonsays. "Weplaytothelevel ofour competition. Ifwe just come out more intense at the beginning ofgames and play every game like it's against St. John's, we are confident that we can defeat anyone in 
the country."  D  
SCHOLASTIC  23  
MAGAZINE  



,i 
: 
(/) 
I­
°' 
c.. 
(/) 

ALL INCLUSIVE. Courtney Blum and Brenna Moore are both members of the women's ultimate team. 
BY TOM REPETTO s_t Notre Dame students can re­
member taking advantage ofsome 
unny day in their childhood to hurl a frisbee leisurely around the backyard. But how many have ever thrown one in the heat of competition, with a season-ending defeat hanging in the balance? Ultimate frisbee provides that opportunity. 
Ultimate frisbee is a fast-growing sport that combines some ofthe fundamentals of football, basketball and frisbee-throwing. It is fast-paced and highly competitive. The object of the game, similar to a touchdown pass infootball, is to complete a pass into an end zone. Players must be stationary when throwing, and the sport is non-contact. Like rugby, possession ofthe disc changes hands following a turnover, not after a required set of downs. 
The ultimate frisbee men's and women!s teams at Notre Dame were started five years ago. They each had about seven players, the minimum required for a game. The men's team expanded to 20 members the follow-
M
24 SCHOLASTIC . 
MAGAZINE 

ing year because of the recruitment efforts of Luke Mullany, a former team captain who graduated in 1997. 
Current team captain and senior James Beeby was encouraged to join by Mullany, who lived across the street from him in Rochester, Minn. "I picked up the game back home and have enjoyed ithere," Beeby says. 
Since the teams' inception, they have become much more successful. In 1994 the Notre Dame men's team came in second in its sectional, which is limited to Indianaand Illinois teams looking to advance to the regional finals. In the past two years, they have won sectionals and have performed well at regionals. They missed advancing to the national tournament by one game each year. 
Beeby says this year's team has the ad­vantages of experience and skill. "At prac­tice we're not just training people all the time as in past years," he says. "We have guys who have been on the team for three or four years so we can work on plays and strategies that will help us advance to na­
tionals." 
This team is confident that they have 
enough talent to make it to nationals in the 
spring. They will need to defeat top regional 
teams like Michigan; Oberlin and Iowa to 
advance. At the national tournament, Notre 
Dame will challenge teams such as defend­
ing national champion UC-Santa Barbara 
and perennial powerhouses Stanford and 
Colon:tdo. The Irish' s considerable progress 
over its first four seasons was displayed in 
an upset of the then_secorid-ranked Buffa­loes last year. 
During the fall, the ultimate frisbee team 
plays collegiate and non-collegiate teams in 
open tournaments. Recently, Notre, Dame 
won an open sectional, beating Team Z, a Chicago · club team composed of former 
collegiate ultimate players that goes to na­
tionals virtually every year. "Beating a team that has gone to nationals each ofthe past 15 years is really encouraging," Beeby says. · "Itproves how far we've progressed. It also 
gives us some extra motivation that we'll 
build on in the fall and the spring." 
Notre Dame also competed in the Chi-
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

cago Tune-ups against club teams from around the country. Club teams have play­ers who are college age as well as people in their later 20s and 30s. "Games against experienced players give us a better under­
standing of what we need to do to be suc­cessful, especially for play against colle­giate teams in the spring," Beeby says. 
Another factor that could propel Notre Dame into the national tournament is the addition of Mike Shiel, a freshman from Chicago. He played on the Junior National Ultimate Frisbee Team that competed against five countries in August. "Playing on that team gave me a better understanding of the level of competition out there," Shiel says. "There are quality players out there and it was great playing with them." 
Shiel' s older brother, Dave, was a former member ofthe team. "Through Dave I knew 
a lot of the guys on the team before I came here," Shiel says, "so the transition to play­ing here was not that hard." With the loss of several seniors, the younger Shiel will play a major role on the team, as will junior Kevin Garvey, who returns to the team in the spring after a year abroad. 
The team is self-run by captains. Without a coach, they still have the discipline to formulate plays and organize a team ca­pable ofadvancing to nationals. "You don't have to have a lot of organization. You just want to make sure that everyone is having fun and picking up the skills," senior and team member Matt Curreri says. 
The women's team has played very _well also. Last year, they were a game away from nationals. This season, however, will chal­lenge the inexperienced squad that has lost 
I --.. eight seniors to graduation. Out of the 22 girls on.this year's te~m, 12 players are new. Senior Captain Courtney Blum, along with fellow seniors Amy Bowman and Kristin D'Agostino, will try to lead the squad to victory and a run at nationals. "During the club season, we've defeated all the collegiate teams that we've played, so things look good for the spring," Blum says. The team is also looking forward to more members returning from seasons abroad. The university has not wholeheartedly supported the ultimate fri.sbee club. Despite requests by club mem:t,ers, the university willnotrecognize bothamen'sand women's ultimate frisbee team. The teams do not even have uniforms. Although the ultimate teams have held fund raisers to defray costs, all petitions to the administration to recog­nize the two teams have been denied. This 
O_CTOBER 8, -1998 
poses two problems. First, the university only provides enough funds for one team. Travel expenses for two teams that must compete around the country are limited, forcing them to keep most of their tourna­ments in the Midwest. 
The second problem is that the men's and women's teams have to share a practice field at Stepan. Because ultimate frisbee requires much ofthe 100-yard field, the two more serious than interhall play, so for guys who played sports in high school like I did, ultimate frisbee allows you to engage in good competition," Blanchet-Ruth says. 
Another aspect ofultimate frisbee that the players appreciate is the spirit of the game. This is the honor system, a unique aspect of the sport. There are no referees in the sport and players are willing to call their own fouls. The spirit of the game is an example 
of how the sport of 
ultimate frisbee re­

ID eating a team that has gone flects the players' re­
spect for fairness and 

lU)to nationals each ofthe past good sportsmanship. 
"The spirit of the 

15 years ... proves how far we've game allows the game 
to be competitive as 

progressed. -James Beeby well as fun," Blum 
teams must split their practice from two-and a-half hours to one hour and 15 minutes eacq. "More practice time would really help us in improving our fundamentals," says Blum, who is also club vice president. 
Despite these troubles, the ultimate frisbee team has a lot offun playing the sport.Shiel believes that the sport is much more com­petitive than people assume. "The quality of ultimate · frisbee play is very high," he says. "You can play on high levels and compete in pro~level tour­naments." Shiel also points out that the game is easy to pick up due to its · simple rules and objectives. 
C a r I o Blanchet­Ruth, a fifth­year architec­ture major and ultimate frisbee veteran, enjoys the sport because it doesn't require equipment and works a lot of different 
says. Shiel agrees. "Players care about being fair more than winning at all costs. It makes the sport that much more fun to play." 
Ultimate is about more that tossing a frisbee outside a dorm, it is a competitive sport that a diverse group of students can play and enjoy. Although the disc may never replace the pigskin, it is fast becoming a new tradition in Notre Dame sports. 0 

muscles. "The sport is a lot  DISC PLAVER. James Beeby tries to steal a catch from Dave Pickett at a recent ultimate frlsbee team practice.  
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE  25  

r-
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
O:::'. 
w 
r-
z 
w 

A Mississippi breeze blows through Washington Hall with FIT's mainstage opener, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof 
BY JEN JOHNSON 

s you walk around campus this week, don't be surprised ifyou hear the sultry music of the 
saxophone or the sounds of Southern ac-

a: 
w 
::, 
<( 
al 
<( 
Cl 
z 
<( 
~ 
cents. And don't panic if you feel a Missis­sippi breeze whispering over your shoulder. 
Tennessee Williams' Cat on a Hot Tin Roofblows onto the N9tre Dame mainstage this week, the first play of the year by the newly renamed Film, Television and The­atre department. Both the actors and the behind-the-scenes production team have been working long hours since the first week of the semester, and all the hard work will begin to pay off with four productions this weekend,following yesterday's opener. 
Frequent mainstage director Professor Reginald Bain is back as director of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof "Williams called the play a theatrical poem," Bain says, "and it's a poem which celebrates the ritual of succes­sion in a family .... It's about people who are trying somehow to survive despite all the chaos and torment of their lives." 
The play is set on a sultry Southern plan­tation in a bedroom occupied by Brick Pollitt and his wife Maggie. They're having mari­tal troubles, which only worsen when they find out that Brick's father, Big Daddy, has cancer. The play deals with these three characters in addition to Big Mama, the matriarch of the Pollitts, and the manipula­tive family members Gooper and Mae Pollitt. 
With Bain's help, the actors hope to bring to life the personalities of the script without making therri into caricatures, or stereo­types of dysfunction. All four leads_ are seniors, and they've been acting for the past three years or so. "This is a very experi­encedgroup,"Bain says. "They're all people I've worked with before, except for one or two." 
Senior Dan O'Brien takes on the role of Big Daddy, the aging plantation owner and ruler of the Pollitt household. "He's a Mis­sissippi redneck, but he's likable," O'Brien says of his complex character. "He has a certain wisdom through simplicity; he has a certain everyman's philosophy. He's still dynamic and funny, even though he attacks people." 
Senior Kim Megna, who plays Maggie, appreciates her director's· influence on the development of her character. "Dr. Bain is so patient in allowing all ofus to explore the characters, and they're really filled out and 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 


developed thanks to his guidance," Megna says. "Williams' characters are so intense that they are emotionally exhausting." 
Senior Kevin Carrigan, who plays Brick, also believes that his character is challeng­ing. "He's one of the most complex charac­ters in the play ... he's one of the best characters I've enjoyed playing," he says. 
Bruce Auerbach, associate chair of the Film, Television and Theatre department, designed the set. One of the more unusual aspects of the stage is that it is built on a slope. "We wanted to give a sense that all was not quite well," Auerbach says. The slope provides a sense of unbalance that adds to the play's mood. 
"The set is kind of abstract," says junior stagehand Joe Weiler. "It has a high sense of realism, but it's not dependent on those aspects." 
Even the furniture hints at the tension between the characters. "I wanted some of the furniture to date back to plantation times, and I wanted the stereo to appear more recent," Auerbach says, "The wicker furni­ture suggests a Southern atmosphere; some of the furniture wants to look like it matches." 
Kevin Dreyer, an associate professional specialist in the theatre department, designed the lighting for the show. "I went with a 
r 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 
more poetic color choice rather than real­istic color, because the nature ofthe script is so much more than its text," he says. "It's almost like prose poetry." Though the play calls for relatively simple light­ing, Dreyer worked to make the texture and look ofthe play reflect the characters. Lighting is used to depict everything from Venetian blinds to the moon shining be­tween trees. Dreyer says, "We wanted to capture this idea through the blinds, while presenting architecture that might exist inside this house." 
In addition to the behind-the-scenes crew, the cast has tried to create a united ensemble. As graduate student Dan Smith, who plays Dr. Baugh, says, "We're all very excited about working with each other." 
Though the actors are excited, Bain says the play offers a challenge for young actors with its long monologues. "It's a difficult play for young actors to perform, because it's more character-driven than plot-driven." 
Junior Sean Dwyer, who plays Brick's older brother Gooper, believes the play has a universal message. "I believe the text deals very poignantly with communication and personal relationships," he says. "We could all use a little help with both." D 

)>
s: 
)> 
z 
0 
)> 
CJ 
)> 
C 
m 
:0 

Further pe1formances ofCat on a Hot Tin Roofare at 7:30 p.m.from Thursday, Octo­ber 8 through Saturday, October JO with a matinee pe1formance at 2:30 p.m. on Sun­day, October II. 



r­
z 
LLJ 
~ 
z 
~ 
a:::: 
LLJ 
r-
z 
LLJ 
. FALL FLINGS . 
.Reruns 

The fall TV seasonoffers a hostofnew episodes, buiare they really all new? 
oyou;ve got classes and midterms and parties and just couldn't find time to catch all
S

your favorite l\fpremieres? Not to ,vorry. We here at OutOf Bounds have compiled the following synopses of the past, present and future of television.shows so that you can pick up watching where you left off, or eve.n jump onto the bandwagon ofa popular new show.: 
. Dawson'sCreek . . 
Past: Ridiculously articulate high school· students deal with sex, sex, sex and some., times friendship in relation to sex. An affair between a student and his high school teacher, the threat ofa serial killer, transvestites, an infamous basketball to the face -and the show's only been on one season! . Present: Yesterday markedthe premiere 

of Dawson's Creek on the WB, kicking·.· e~enthough they've been secretly in love 
offyet another season ofthinly disguis~d sexual innuendo. Future: Will weeverleamifDawsonhas a pistol .or a rifle? Will Tamara start dat­ing Cliff, Pacey; Doug, Mr. Gold, Bobby Joe;Cletus or Bailey? Will the characters . ever talk like normal people? Sadly,the answer to all the questions appears to be a resounding no. 
·Friends 
Past: Si~ frie~ds live in New York and 

are magically able to sleep with everyone . · Ladies' Man," is getting old. J.>resent: Chelsea; our prayers are with 
', in the Big Apple withoutcontracting any diseases. But ofcourse it gets boring to .· sleep ~ith 11different pers6n every week, soin .the past two .years, the. six main . charactex-s have slept with each other. . .Present: Chandler· and Monica decided . that sex.· is .better than frie,ndship, thus 
-' : 

negating the "Joey~Dawson Principle" (see above). Ross got married but got ditched by his new wife. so he went back to his ex­igirlfriend/curreht friend Rachel before pur­suing his wife again. Joey and Phoebe haven't decided to have sex together yet, 
· but since Phoebe gives birth· tonight that maychange soon enough. ·· · Future:Allsixfriendsendupsleepingwith each other, though Ross and Rachel never manage to develop a steady relationship 
the whole time; Don't expect any 'of the 
characters to change anything other than 
theirhairoi clothes. 
SaturdayNight Liye ._. _Past: John Bel~shi, Gilda Radner,· Dan 
Akroyd, Stev·e Martfu, ' 
Present: Unknown cast memqers, Clinton }okes, a noticeable lack of Jeilllifer Love Hewitt, the two guys that shake their heads · when they go to clubs.~nd not much. eise:. 
· · Even thaticonoffeniiriism in the '90s, ''The · SORE,D so he says, ''Close but nodgar," 
Future: Lame, Lame, Lame. you., ·, ' . ' ' 
.Future: CNN announces that.the whole The X-Files ' thing was a f~ce designedto ,boost rat~ Past: Clever -sci~fi ·show creates ·a new ihgs; Everyone has a good laugh and 
' premise: two ~ge~ts, siightly attractedto changesjhe channel Ill order to pursue eacµ' other, f~ce aworldwide conspiracy more whole.some ac,tivities like watching . ancl a ~ost~f, alien predators. . theey~r~popuJarPai·ty offive. . . 
Present: Overblown prototype for every 
oth~r sci-fi show continues to draw. in 
gaziHions ofviewers,despite the fact that 
everyone except the two main characters 
realizes that tl}e big conspiracy is caused 
by old men and slimy black aliens trying 
to kill everyone with bees. 
Future: In the last five minutes .of the 
final. episode the writers. bring out. tile 
only bizarre plot twist that hasn't been 
thrown in yet: Mulder wakes up in bed 
with his. wife Scully arid learns that the 
entire series has been one long dream. 
AllyMcBeal 

Past; Present, and Future: Ally getsa 
case. Ally identifies with the case, and 
confronts Dr. Tracy, who gives her some 
wacked-out remedy. Elaine, Renee and 
Georgia offer the woman's perspective. 
Everyone begins slinging around advice 
like the senior section slings around marsh-. 
mallows~ 
· Richard's male chauvinism contrasts 
with Billy's nice-guy personality, while 
John "Ghostbusters 2" Cage acts weird. 
Minor -~dctballs come and go, while ev-. 
eryone argues about who's going to take care of Owen. Ally makes a closing re­. mark that bridges both sides of the argu­
..ment at once .. Everyone end_s up at the bar . 
listening to Vonda Shepard sing a song, 
fade to black,< 
-. · .... 

The Clinton!Lewinsky scandal 
Past: The President and Mrs. Lewinsky ··· wernin his chamb~rs when CENSORED . in the hall with CENSORED Gap dress with the tie CENSORED goats .CEN­
28 SCHOLASTIC OCTOBER 8, 1998 
MAGAZINE 



Clap On. Clap Off. 
Pranks are a common occurrence on most campuses -but few 
pranksters ever think to ask permission before pulling off their 
stunts. Recently, five students at Princeton stole the Nassau Hall 
bell clapper and ran across the football field during halftime of a 
home game to display it. Stealing the bell clapper is a century-old 
tradition, but the clapper was hidden in 1991 because administra­
tors feared that students would get injured during the climb to the 
top ofNassau's bell tower. Freshman Joel Moxley, however, was 
determined to find the clapper and reclaim the prankster tradition. 
"It was my only reason for coming to Princeton," he said proudly. 
Before Moxley and his friends ran across the field, though, they 
made sure it was OK with of the Head of Public Safety and 
promised that they wouldn't disrupt the game. Moxley and his 
friends now deny that they actually asked for permission. "I don't 
want people to think we did a lot of ass-kissing with the admin­
istration," said one of Moxley's cohorts, insistent that this be 
considered a real prank. 
Since the theft, Moxley has quit school. His purpose at Princeton 
was to steal the clapper, and that being done, he had no reason to 
stay. We hope he'll consider applying to Notre Dame so that he 
can find a new purpose, the universal and time-withstanding 
purpose that we all share here -our duty to participate in the 
Annual Keough Chariot Race. 
Critter Control 
When squirrel hunting season opened in Ohio on September l 0, Ohio University freshman Zach Hill was ready. He's been hunting squirrels with his father since he was nine years old and really enjoys this quality time with Dear Old Dad. He also likes the rush he feels when he kills" the squirrels (four-squirrel-a-day limit), because ifs such a challenging sport. According to Hill, you have to be quiet and careful in order to sneak up on the little guys. "Squirrels are a lot smarter than people think they are," he said. 
Well, they aren't that smart. There is one reportedly emolled in Freshman Comp, but he isn't passing. 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 
Of _Human B,ondage 
. For those .students atthe University of Wisconsin wh~ ~e .·· 
getting bored with the regular party scene, there's anew option: ·. inter~ctive · bcmdage shows, complete with live rriusk, ·at·.· Madisqp.'s nightclub Inferno. These shows give curious UW students the chance to explore theirdarkeisides by dressing up . in black ~r white.vinyl~ fishnets· optional~ and pouring hot wax on or whipping "submissive people" to get their kicks. The.· owner of this uniq11e club, ahappening guy mimed Apollo, is quick to pointout that ''this is nota big orgy like sqme people . think. It's purely enteitainment'' He also notes that there is 


rarely any nudity or bleeding. • · .· . . · · .· .. -.· 
We here at OOC think this is, quite frankly,, disgusting. You'll neverfindNotre Dame students dressed in. kinky '70s ·. clothing, crammed into.hot, sweaty rooms with loud music . . w_ith anything other than good, clean intentions in mind. Except. · 
atfreshman parties, of course. 
·· 

Dope-Smoking Libertarians 
Hoping that her political platform would appeal to college 
students, gubernatorial candidate Katherine Gallant spoke re­
cently at the University of Arizona. Gallant is a former hairstyl­
ist and owner of a salon called "Fantasy's Executive Sweets," 
where men have their hair cut by women wearing only lingerie. 
Among the many things she would do as governor, she prom­
ised, would be to eliminate homework and decriminalize drugs. 
She also believes strongly in the second amendment. "As a 
woman who owns a 20-gauge shotgun, if you don't have the 
right to protect yourself in America, what do you have?" she 
challenged the students. UA students did not seem very recep­
tive to her comments; one called her a "dope~smoking Libertar­
ian." Gallant wasn't fazed, however. "Don't ever underestimate 
a blonde, especially when she has dark roots," Gallant told 
students before she left. 

Since Gallant didn't feel like the UA crowd was receptive 
enough, she has decided to join Bill Bradley in his lecture series here at Notre Dame. During her stay, she hopes to spend some . time with the Progressive Student Alliance and exercise her freedom of speech though sidewalk chalk. Look for her punchy Libertarian messages on the way to class -"Liberty, Pot and Firearms For All!" and "Fight For Your Right to Cut Hair 
Naked." 

by Kimberly Blackwell 
SCHOLASTIC 29 
MAGAZINE 
z 
! 
Oil 
--, ! 
I 
m 
;:;;o 
() )> 
s 
-u 
C 
(./) 
m 
(./) 



z 
0 
I­
0 ~ 
I­
(/) 
0 
z 
~ 
UJ UJ 
~ 
I 
For the Love of God, Put Some Pants on that ManI 
An abundance offree T-shirts leaves some 
with their pants down 
BY JOI-IN rnFRANCA hey are there to greet every nervous 
freshman when he first arrives 
on campus. They assist recent credit card applicants in the celebration of future debt. They boldly proclaim to fellow stu­dents that yes, indeed, the Cincinnati Bell tolls for thee. Free T-shirts are more than an icon of bad fashion and low budgets: they are a rite of passage for Notre Dame stu­dents that is far more steeped in tradition than tailgating or squirrel-tossing. 
I'm proud to say that. since coming to Notre Dame I have had little reason to buy my own shirts. In fact, my T-shirt collection is probably the only thing this school has not charged me for. I can generally count on a dozen or so new T-shirts every year, begin­ning with CBLD and ending with AnTostal. And although the former al ways seem to fall short of being "cool" and the latter always appear in colors similar to a package of Tropical Skittles, they are all free. 
I have little reason to complain, but I will anyway. 
To begin with, I have finally begun to notice the sharp disproportion between the number of T-shirts and the amountoflegwear in my drawers. I am sure many of you have noticed similar problems lurking within your wardrobe. I seem to have hundreds of T­
. shirts for every pairofpants, shorts or bikini briefs. The possible permutations make my head reel and keep me up late at night. "It just doesn't make sense," I tell myself. "Someone make it go away. The shirts, my God, the shirts! They're reproducing right before my eyes!" Wouldn't you love some free shorts to balance your wardrobe? How about a lime green pair from AnTostal? That way you could look like some anach­ronistic jogger struggling to find a path out ofthe mid-1980s. But perhaps there is some sick, hidden reason for the disparity. 
T
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Let us look at topless beaches. 

Actually, try not to look, that would be immoral and I'm not here to promote voyeurism. Instead merely consider topless beaches -not as a place to go on the weekend (trust me, I've checked, there are none within driving distance), but rather as a social construct. Topless beaches call upon attendees to have far more pairs of shorts than shirts. And yet despite this rather ludi­crous consideration, the endless pro­liferation offree shirts continues on this campus. 
The reason behind this is quite clear. Notre Dame, through the nearly uncontrollable distribution of com­plimentary chest wear, has sought onernther perverted goal: the advent and proliferation of bottomless beaches. What other plau­sible explanation can be constructed to ac­count for the lack of free shorts? . 
It is upon the basis of this lack of free shorts that I believe the university must assume full responsibility for all bun-runs and similar clothing-optional activities. What do you expect when you go around giving people loads of free shirts but not a damn thing to cover their twigs and berries? Throw me a freaking fig leaf, people. Maybe I'm getting upset over nothing, but I really don't enjoy sitting in LaFortune during fi­nals and watching as a couple of guys from Zahm run by with no shorts on, simply because CBLD was too cheap to hand them out during orientation. Let us, as a clothing­preferred community, finally place the blame for these activities where it truly belongs. 
It's notlike these shirts are anything great, either. Let's be honest. There are very few free shirts that one would be willing to pay for. It's not like CBLD's free T-shirts will ever appear on the Today Show as part of "This Fall's hottest new ensemble, for him · and her." Realistically, this year's edition 

may as well have replaced "Do not remove 
from locker room" with "Do not wear in -public." 
Even my own family has not spared me 
the embarrassment of strange and tasteless 
T-shirts. To commemorate the 12-hourdrive 
to Notre Dame at the start of my sophomore 
year my sister had a few shirts custom made. 
Emblazoned on the front pocket was the 
phrase "Notre Dame or Bust!" This T-shirt 
is merely one example in a series of mildly 
clever but annoying shirts my family has 
subjected me to since youth. At age three, 
I learned to use the bathroom all by myself 
(it still ranks among my most noteworthy 
personal achievements). The next week my · 
family all brandished shirts proclaiming 
"Little Johnny used the John." It made me 
wish I still wore diapers. Infact, I was 15 by 
the time I convinced them to stop wearing 
those mortifying shirts. 
In a few weeks my sister and brother-in­
law will be coming to visit for the Army 
game. You may spot them around campus. 
They'll be wearing the shirts that say "Fly­
ing in the Sky to See Johnny I." I'll be 
walking about 30 feet behind them. 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

i• i•FiresideCh~f"TlieGr~Jni11gofNot1;eDaitie···;i
j ..... ·.-·.-.·•.,'\·!_ . . :.•.--~•-.c.:..:, .· .• :_·:, .:-___,. ·.' ~ 
[' .Aia1;:B,1?~er,,12:QO/~,-R,e,~kefr .. · ,· i;,, i •Cuh~re <>n tte. QpatH~\~Jii rlub, R~cycliil~
•··· .Club &•Students forEnv1ronm:ental Action 
..... ··.• ... ·.. ,·· ·',. •''• ..·.., ·•.' 
4:3.0J>l\1,Reckero/Patio·> '•"· i.·.. •·•·•· ··ii .. ·. · 
•Theatif Cq{o:~ a{Ho/ TiiJ ~oof, 7:30. PM, 

i Wasl1!n~t1n Hall\"~...:/), , .·•·· ::. ,tXh~~ti•e:. ~ecrefLove;~~:001>,M1:Moreau 
·. ter,SMC .• . . ' .. . 
·•hp}~ed40~,JO:~OPiv1,C~s!iif1g... }, .: 

V . ··;JHlJRSIT>AY .>·
·:~ 
~Fi~es~de:~fo¥ "qu~ntu~ Spirituhli~," ·Ff: -­
·Ken Maley, 12:00 PM,· Reckers .' .. :·.

I
•Ciiltifre ci'n·theQuad: Voices ofFaith &,E~~~s­

1!~fRP,~/4,:3.<{FM/~¢2~~~i~/:\)t}c;,i?i',}ic; 
0 
•)'ti: F,tlJo, Color~ahnO r'.""}'~Q 

:;:>-.'.;)···:\····~MRl@A:¥··:_ 0':_:·.':>­
i. ·: ; .. '-:-.~-..,:._:, __;~--------··· _·. ' 

; •Concert:' Grana Rapios Carit~ta Choir, 7:00 ' PM, College of Business Administration,
. . . , ,
'Atnum 
. . . . . . 
•Hockey: Notee.Dame vs. Western Michigan,
· / l y · 

! 7:00 ·PM, JACC7 [ ,: /_,......,.,,:, \_ 
••· ~Se~inab ''~low. th~ Irish'. Migilt Save : •· •i ,;. Civilization Ag_ain:-..The·P~oposal~for a:. Basic·• ,i i',.Jnco~e-PolicyJ~ Iielaiid,1'c1hafles}\~·: < ~. Clark,J.~:3~ PMI Cf1q1HesRm:gl~1ceyter.,i. for.,II1!~.(Ilat1ona~ Stpd1.~s_ ' ;. C <'·.•...· . ··. •La Trampa (The Trap) 7:00 PM• \: •i 
.. · . . · I ' ,. > · ·• • •. '1 1 .. · 
,;HesburghCen,te~ fo'rinterriational Studies, .: 
f, Nidiforium; ·: r . \, '<;;~:,,/ / ,, . 
! ~.Irish_ folk.a,nd .traclitional niiisic;f30 PM, 
.)vloreaitCentedLittle Theater,, SMC .. . : )i 
TUESDAY i 

! ... ; , . :: . ' . .. .
f •Leciure! "Biol~ i\''."•-~·~ ·. .' .----'­/ Sex/Gender ni·s·1·.? ~~ ~eter~m~m and tltej.
' . . , mct10n " Tor·11 M . ·4 . .
/ PM ·216D B-· · · ' .01; :00· ·· 
, . ·' ,.. e arto~o.HaJJ. . • •.. -, , · 
1 •Theatre· Anhi· n'., -. ·: -. , -~-· ·-.· 
1 · --• 7" 1 tJey ance R /PT ·• , · 1 Jac*~on; -7:30PM 'Was . -8~-.Y1?7:'-lll .., 
•·...·•T~e~t~e: Cat· ~n ~ ~?f Tin Roofi,, 7\30 PM/ /t•3,0o_.:·:;•./_•, ... ··.~J /;q,-,!Il!lf!~~aH;,rog1.P;\') 1 Washu1gtonHaijj k 1 { ... ·. '·] :··•....··.,·;}".fP~lry,seadiH~:J5.ti~far"·Y A (.,·\}?~ 
1

. SMC ., ·• ·,· ····.·. 'j '· .. ·\ ;,.... ·.·.•·. ·1 i ,·.•·-·... ·. ,,•A d:••··, ·-·"·. ....1 {Jl, nter~J Stiid••· ·• 1 .... e...·a .. ..•.ec ..···.·.ti .. .. ...•.or···e·a···u· ...·•.··.•··•·./··.•·.·.· -.·H···· e.·.s·.··.·.b.·...1·.i·..r .• .. ...·.··•·.e.···n.· r. £.·•·•···...-.·.. ..······.••···.•·-············..···.·.··.•.-...•.. l·.·m.•.····./.·.e .....•..J.:3·.··p··•··.p.· ... ·.•.•·••·....·
•.· ..····•··•.·••.·..T···.· l.1 ......·.~.. re·_·:···S··.• .... ~.e .•..L. o•v·.··.•e·····•···•.·.·.8·•.···:···0.·· ·O·. fM·. '.·.M.···•. ..··.·•iCe.·.·ri.....t.er.·..,.• .. ..• ... .. •. •..g.·....·1.·.···.···.···,.···•·.C ...... t.··.·.•e·. ;.·.·...•.···I .....~ ..,.•.s ' ...·•M•···.···.··.··.·•··'··..·..• .. .• ..·.·.··•·····•·•.':.•·•·•·•·".•.•1·· 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

I •• ' " ' • • 
-~ -~ . ·~-----~-----­

<( Silent Acceptance 
byZacKulsmcl

z 
RichardJ. Zephpassed away onJuly 17th in the palliative care unit of Methodist Hos­. pital in downtown Indianapolis. Though I was not there during his final hours on that morning, I had been watching my grandfather die for the past 15 years. I have no memory qf ever seeing him in good health, no memory of ever being able to carry on a conversation with him, no memory of seeing him smile. But I . cannot forget the look in his eye three years ago when I told him I had been accepted to the University of Notre Dame. I say "eye," singularly, because disease de­stroyed his right eye nearly 10 years ago. In the vacant socket was placed a fake, but the glass sphere always stood in eerie contrast to the other, 
------------"'-----------which would glim­mer fiercely as ifre-
When I told Grandpa of my 
belling against the acceptance, his good eye flashed rest of his pallid, withering exterior.
as it stared at me with wonder that 
When I told Grandpa I had never before seen in him or ofmy acceptance, his 
any other human being. good eye flashed as 
it stared at me with a  
Zac Ku,lsrud is the  wonder that I had never before seen in him or any  
assistant Campus Life  other human being. At the time that eye para­ 
editor ofScholastic  lyzed me in unconscious fear because I-hadn't  
Magazine.  yetlearnedofthe long-abandoned dream that lay  
·behind it.  
·At the time I had no knowledge of the dream  
that had faded with my Grandpa's youth. As a  
young man he had grown up in Speedway, Ind.,  
but the Indianapolis 500 occupied his sports  
conscious for only one weekend a year. His true  
love was Notre Dame football, and he followed  
the team with a passion literally until the day he  
died; But long before that day, when grandpa  
wasjusta high school senior and first inhis class  
at tiny Chatard Catholic High School, he had  
dreamed ofwatching Notre Dame games not as  
a fan, but as a student at the university.  
Mygrandfathernevertold me about this dream,  

32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

not because its memory had faded in his old age, but because he never told me anything. A stroke had stolen his speech long before he found out that his grandson might attend Notre Dame. I had an inkling ofknowledge of his love for Notre Dame, but I had no idea that he had postponed his plan to attend Notre Dame until after he served his country in World WarII. No one had ever told methat his scholarships became invalid after the war, and that his family could riot afford to send him to any institution of higher learning, let alone Notre Dame. I didn't learn this until my grandmother told me on the day of his funeral. 
Why didn't I know this sooner? I would have spent more time talking to Grandpa about the campus, the stadium, the players I knew, the friends I had made. As I sat and listened to my grandma teHme this I could only grieve in my ignorance. 
My grandma touched my hand. "He didn't want you to live his dream for him," she said, "and that's why I've never said anything for him. He didn't want you to go to Notre Dame because he couldn't. He just wanted to see you decide for yourself to take advantage of something that he knew was special." 
My grandma saw I was speechless, overcome with a regret I felt swelling inside me, and, to my disbelief, she laughed. "You probably didn't know," she added, "that wehad to postpone ourmarriagewhenGrandpa found out Notre Dame played Army on the originally scheduled wedding day." 
My grandma's words made me think again of the day I told my grandpa that I was accepted to Notre Dame, and how nai:ve I must have looked in his clouded sight. Then I thought about the few times when I had talked to him about how school was going, and how he would just stare back. I always thought he had been listening sharply, and I always suspected that my choosing Notre Dame had a special significance for him, but now I knew·why. · 
I also now know that there is a difference between living life for someone else and in making the most of your life; knowing others cannot. The difference is clear when I sit alone by the lakes, thinking ofmy grandpa and all the others who never lacked the desire to attend Notre Dame, only the means to get here. 
OCTOBER 8, 1998 

'0-.

Fried Rice Fat Free Dishes 
.e!!!1  ...ru  
Vegetable Fried Rice  3.69  5.69  
Chicken Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
Shrimp Fried Rice  4.99  6.99  
Beef Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
•curry Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
Combination Fried Rice  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
*Szechuan Fried Rice  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
Soup  
*Hot and Sour Soup  1.49  
Wonton Soup  2.49  
Egg Drop Soup  0.99  

Customer's· Choices 
(served with steamed rice) *Chicken in Hot Garlic Sauce 6.66 *Kung Pao Chicken 6.66 Cashew Chicken 6.66 Almond Chicken 6.66 •curry Chicken 6.66 Chicken Chop Suey 6.66 Sweet & Sour Chicken 6.66 Chicken with Broccoli 6.99 Chicken with Peapods 7.99 Orange-Flavored Chicken 7.99 Empress Chicken 7.99 Sesame Chicken 7.99 *General Tso's Chicken 7.99 *Hunan Beef 6.99 Mongolian Beef 6.99 Pepper Steak 6.99 Fresh Mushroom Beef 6.99 Beef Chop Suey 6.99 Beef with Broccoli 7.99 Beef with Peapods 7.99 
Vegetable Deluxe 6.66 Stir-Fry Broccoli In Brown Sauce 6.66 Steamed Broccoli 6.66 Steamed Cauliflower 6.66 Steamed Cabbage 3.98 
House Specials 
Noodles with Sauce  Pint  ill,_  
Vegetable Sauteed Noodles  3.69  5.69  
Chicken Sauteed Noodles  3.99  5.99  
Beef Sauteed Noodles  4.69  6.69  
Shrimp Sauteed Noodles  4.69  6.69  
Combination Sauteed Noodles  
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg  5.79  7.79  
*Szechuan Sauteed Noodles  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg  
Appetizers  
Egg Roll (1)  0.99  
Cream Cheese Wonton (6)  2.29  
Pot Stickers (6)  2.49  
• Hot and Spicy •  
Side Orders  
Steamed Rice (1)  0.99  
Fortune Cookies  0.99  
Beverages  
MIS~~•n~~•l  o.ss  

IB3 21Il JJilll 9§ ";\ ~ 
N(0)(()) cdlIle IHI(())illl§ e 
Chinese Cuisine 
Delivery Hours: Mon-Sun 


5:00 pm to 11 :00 pm 271-0125 
W@ 

Subscribe to: 
H Tl 



Only $35 a year -regular bi­weekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: . 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment 


MAGAZ N E 
t7·[~J:??7T·---r-~---?-7~1IJ·;----------?--?J
I I,,  ·p1ease putine on your subscriptidfilistforl998-1999 ', . . . -. . . . .  ·  I I  
I . .• ~...;..;,,--,--~.......;......;...;...,,.......;......;...---'----'-------"--'--'-,!I!~:.,  Iii  
1:  . I  
1: ..:.. •.--··.•.  ,....--,----------------------­ :1  

coverage 

1,·:; . -• Plea~~-.s~11d tllis"fo~, withpaym~nt,to: ,1
• controversial campus issues 11 
. Busines,s :Mariage1', Scholastic.Magazine .· 
• what's happening on weekends I : .. · ·..... <LaForttm~ StuderitCenter '1
f''/ •. . '1
.'.:~ottei:>_~~e/™.46556'·,
• off-the-wall humor 

f ~~-;..-.:.-.11wL..:.-..--"--:.....J 




