I
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:___________________________________________
Address:________________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager	i
Scholastic Magazine .	j
303 LaFortune Student Center	I
Notre Dame, IN 46556	।
Wil...
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 134, No.19
March 25, 1993
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Margaret S. Kenny
MANAGING EDITOR
Kenneth Osgood
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Kate Wiltrout
NEWS
Editor: Mark Mitchell
CAMPUS LIFE
Editor: Michell Crouch
SPORTS
Editor: Amanda Clinton
ENTERTAINMENT
Editor: Tony Leonardo Assistant: Peg Ward
DEPARTMENTS
Editor: Jenny Tate
PHOTOGRAPHY
Editor: Brent Tadsen
COPY
Editor: Heidi Laura Toboni
GRAPHIC ARTS Manager: Charlie Kranz
ADVERTISING
Manager: Patrick Gibbons Sean Mulvey
BUSINESS
Manager: Eileen Shelley
SYSTEMS
Manager: Chris Blanford
DISTRIBUTION
Manager: Mark Fitzgerald
Welcome!
As 1993-94 editor in chief of Scholastic, I would like to welcome all of the new staff members to the editorial board. Many of the faces remain the same — they’re just in different positions — but I am pleased to introduce some new ones as well.
Jenny Tate, our departments editor, is new to the board, but she has experience on the staff as a Senior Staff writer. Tony Leonardo will be serving as Scholastic’s entertainment editor. Tony is pretty much a newcomer to Scholastic, although he has written “Week in Distortion” in the past Copy editor Heidi Laura Toboni is also new to the editorial board. Like Jenny, Heidi was also a member of the Senior Staff before spending last semester in London. Brent Tadsen, a freshman from Morrissey, will be replacing Ken Osgood as photography editor. Replacing Jake Frost in the graphics department is Charlie Kranz, one of the members of last year’s graphics staff. Finally, our advertising department has grown! Sean Mulvey and Patrick Gibbons are teaming up as co-managers to generate as many ads as possible over the next year. Both worked with last year’s advertising manager Karen Riley last year.
In This Issue
This week’s cover story addresses a prevalent, but not often discussed topic at Notre Dame — what is is like to be either a
non-Catholic or a non-Christian at a primarily Catholic institution. Campus life editor Michelle Crouch looks into the other religious habits of Notre Dame students. In News, editor Mark Mitchell talks to Kevin Coyne, a man that many students may have noticed wandering around campus or sitting in on classes or social events but never realized why. Look inside to find out.
Also, sports editor Amanda Clinton investigates some junior scholarship athletes’ reactions to a controversial decision by the administration in January. This decision prohibits senior scholarship athletes from living off campus, a concession made on a trial basis last year.. Finally, check out our regular departments to see what our new editors have done with them.
A Brief Hiatus
This will be the last regular issue of Scholastic for a while. Next Thursday, look for our annual humor issue, Sarcastic. Last year’s staff will be returning for one last issue before finally saying goodbye. The next week, April 8, there will be no issue because of Easter weekend. Our next regular issue is planned for April 15.
Margaret S. Kenny Editor in Chief
Scholastic is published uedt/y throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $25 JX)/year and backissuesare available at $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials sifted Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial boo'd. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsoliciiied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine, All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permissiQn is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves therighi to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaForlune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556

—nc
I
Dear Editor:
In your 1992 Football Review issue, volume 134, no. 13,1 found a slight error in a likely place. On page 19, in the boldface print, under the picture where Notre Dame fumbled the ball, Stanford was mistakenly, I am sure, spelled incorrectly as Satanford. I am not writing you this as a letter to just inform you, but because I was amused. Having my father being an alumnus of Notre Dame and my sister being a senior there, I am a huge, huge fan of the Notre Dame football team and have been to three of their home games—with good seats. I have also gotten a picture (with my brother) having Tony Rice’s arm around us, and in another picture, having the “Rocket’s” arms around us. We blew them up to poster size, and they are now hanging on our walls. We have also gotten many good autographs through the years.
Please stop me, I’m rambling.
I can understand how you miswrote Stanford as Satanford, since they have haunted ND for the last two years in satan-like forms. Thank you for your time, and I would be very grateful if you could respond.
Sincerely,
Kevin McCauley (a tickled reader)
P.S. I'm 13 years old, in eighth grade. I love your magazine!
' In S ch oI a st ic ’ s 1992 Football Review Issue, Stanford University mistakenly misnamed in a ptioto captipn on page 19.ScZtoIasttcregrets the error/
We here at Parisi’s would like to thank all of you at the University of Notre Dame for another great year.
And to celebrate, we are offering a special on South Bend's favorite pasta
to any student, faculty or staff member at Notre Dame.
^poridiO
Rijtorante Italiano -
Good on any Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday through April 22.
Spaghetti, Linguini, Mostacciolo or Fettuccine with meat or tomato sauce served with salad for only $4.50
1412 South Bend Avenue	232-4244

Author Kevin Coyne stalks the campus searching for the story of a year in Notre Dame's life
by Mark J. Mitchell IV
---------------------------------------- America, about people from throughout the
He went through orientation, but he is not a freshman. He will leave after graduation, but he is not a senior. He watches over the revelry at S YRs and formals, but he is not a rector. And though he sits through endless classes, he is not a professor.
Kevin Coyne is a spectator of sorts, and his ubiquitous pocket notebook gives away his true role on campus: Coyne is a reporter and a writer. “I spend the days talking to faculty and administrators; I go to all sorts of classes; I make it to all the big events and the small ones, too; I spend the nights visiting the dorms, talking to students and I generally just hang out .here and try to absorb as much as I can,” Coyne said.
Coyne is an author, and for this entire academic year, he has been researching the subject of his next book. “What I want to write is a book about Notre Dame for people who are not Notre Dame alumni; I want it to be a book for people who, like me, are intrigued by Notre Dame from afar,” said Coyne. ‘Tmwritingaboutayearinthe life of Notre Dame, not just what happens here on football Saturdays. I’m writing about a place which is a remarkable and unique college and a place which is in many ways the American Vatican,” he continued.
The book, which is as yet untitled, was
conceived by Coyne during his travels for his 1992 best-seller, A Day in the Night of
nation who work all night. “I met a Notre Dame alumnus in Chicago and that experi-
Coyne reviews notes in his studio apartnemt.
ence rekindled my curiosity in the university. I have known about Notre Dame since I was young because my grandfather was a dedicated ‘subway alum,’ a great fan of the
football team and a great admirer of Father Hesburgh. In fact, my grandmother re
minded me recently that the last thing my
grandfather and I talked about before he died was Notre Dame,” Coyne said.
Working through the Department of University Relations, Coyne received not only permission to work on campus, but he also received willing cooperation and extensive access to all facets of the school—the student body, the faculty and the administration. “Notre Dame has a reputation for closely guarding and protecting its image, but I have found that the administration could not be more open and accessible. Father Malloy and Father Hesburgh have been very generous with their time as have the hall rectors, the professors and the students,” said Coyne.
With his wife and daughter still at home in New Jersey, Coyne commutes back and forth between New Jersey and his apartment at Turtle Creek. He spends two weeks here and two weeks at home. “I’ve really enjoyed being here, but it has been difficult to be at such a great distance from my family,” Coyne said.
Travelling from Turtle Creek to campus every day, Coyne is in the
gathering phase of his writing process. “For my last book, I filled 72 notebooks with interviews and notes. So far, here, I’ve filled 54 notebooks and I’m not even three quar-
tcrs of the way done with the year,” he said.
Once all of his research and interviewing is finished, he will sit down at his manual typewriter and compose his final work from thousands of notes. Approximately nine months later, in Autumn of 1994, Viking will publish his book.
^Tcame into this project with no first-
JLhand experience of Notre Dame. I went to the University of Pennsylvania and only knew of Notre Dame from some friends who went here and from what my grandfather had told me,” Coyne said. With this tabula rasa perspective, Coyne has documented the life of the university, the stories of the people who make up Notre Dame, and the role which the university plays in American Catholicism.
“I have tried to see as much of what goes on here as possible. I have sat in on classes from English and history (my majors) to organic chemistry and engineering. In some of the classes, I couldn’t understand a single thing of what was being taught, but I was there to watch the students and the teachers work and interact,” said Coyne.
“I’ve gone to S YRs and formals and dorm masses. I made it to all of the football games and various other sporting events,” he continued. “I’ve even gone to parties on campus — I felt a little out of place, but I got to see every part of student life,” Coyne said. Kevin Coyne has been spotted everywhere from the Morrissey Polar Run to the Keenan Review, and he always has his notebook in hand, recording what he sees.
“I came to this project more interested in talking to Jay Dolan [history professor] than to Lou Holtz,” said Coyne of his interviewing. “I have certain people whom I have followed throughout the year and whom I keep tabs on so I can learn about their own stories,” Coyne said. He has sat down with everyone from Patricia O’Hara to various professors, rectors and students. “I keep tabs on all sorts of students from band members to athletes to ROTC students. I try to meet people involved in every aspect of the place,” he explained. “I usually take notes in my interviews, but when I got to meet with Father Hesburgh, I brought a tape recorder,” Coyne remarked.
In addition to visiting classes and halls, Coyne has also been researching in the university archives in efforts to gather a full picture of Notre Dame’s role in American Catholicism. “When I write, I like to focus on one person whom I have known and write as though it is for that one person to read and understand. In my last book, I focused on my uncle who worked nights most of his life. For this book, I am focusing on my grandfather who looked to Notre Dame as the capital of American Catholicism, and who saw Fa-
•' ■ J-X.’.I.'--■’ ’:	< ’■ :
ther Hesburgh as the American Pope,” said Coyne. “Just one image of the truly unique role which Notre Dame plays in American Catholicism is the fact that at one end of Notre Dame Avenue you hay&O'pus Dei and at the other end you have a Catholic Worker House. Those are at different ends of the Catholic spectrum, but they both find a home with Notre Dame just as Catholics on the right and on the left find identity here,” he continued.
Coming in as an outsider, Coyne has been left with many impressions of Notre Dame. While they will all be crafted into his book,
some have left a greater mark on him. “Coming here, I knew it was a Catholic school, but I have been surprised at how Catholic it really is. The first Sunday I was here I think I went to five masses in five different places from Sacred Heart to the Joyce Center to the halls,” Coyne noted. “I have also been impressed by the presence of the priests here. At a place like Georgetown or Boston College, which are both fine Catholic institutions, you may find priests in the classrooms, but here you find them everywhere, in the classrooms, as members of the administration, living in the halls, everywhere,” he continued.
Coyne has found telling insights through his hundreds of interviews. “I was talking to Father Joe Ross [rector of Morrissey Manor], and he had a very fascinating story of what it means to be a Holy Cross priest here. He said that ‘every priest remembers the first funeral of a fellow Holy Cross member which he attended. And every time he walks by the community cemetery, a priest will count the number of new crosses since that first funeral, and in the end his will be one of them for someone else to remember,”’ Coyne related.
“The sense of traditional values here is unique, and the results of those values such as single-sex halls and parietal hours are telling. Patty O’Hara shared a very revealing statement about this, saying that ‘we [Notre Dame] are calling people here to a way of life that is almost becoming counter-cultural,’ in the sense that traditional values are becoming the exceptions to social trends,” Coyne said.
His research and interviews are not yet finished, but already Kevin Coyne has found a plethora of material for his book. He came to Notre Dame as an outsider writing for outsiders, but in the process he has been caught up in the unique aspects of the university which ‘intrigued him from afar’ and sparked the attention of the author in him. “I knew Notre Dame was a rich source of material before I arrived, but it has been even richer than I ever expected,” Coyne said. From the Rudy filming to “Old Testament Football” at the Keenan review, to the Krause funeral, Coyne said, “Every week, there’s another ‘only at Notre Dame’ moment.”	□
MARCH 25,1993	.	'	• Y'	.5
Let There be Peace on Earth
Commemorating its tenth anniversary, the peace studies concentration hosts a conference to focus on issues of social justice
' i
by C.A. Egan
O ocial justice and peace are two topics O that usually do not cross students’ minds on a daily basis. News reports occasionally bring these issues to the forefront of conversations. This week, the university is sponsoring a peace conference which is intended to increase awareness of issues of social justice.
This first peace conference titled “Building Peace: A Students Conference Celebrating Ten Years of Peace Studies at Notre Dame,” is an informal event proposed and organized by a group of ten graduate and undergraduate students involved in the peace studies program. The group has been meeting every two weeks since November in preparation for the conference. The students have examined the format of other colleges’ peace conferences and have modeled this event after a particularly successful conference held at Catholic University in Washington, D.C.. The peace conference is intended to be an annual event on the campus.
The conference, as its name indicates, commemorates ten years of the peace studies concentration at Notre Dame. The conference also honors Kathleen Maas Weigert, John Howard Yoder, Michael Francis and John Gilligan, faculty members who coordinated the inception and development of the
peace studies program. The concentration now accommodates approximately 100 undergraduates and 30 graduate students, and it is highly respected among national peace study programs.
“We hope the conference will advance the academic discipline of peace studies through an intellectual yet informal exchange on peace and social justice issues,” said Fran Teplitz, a graduate student organizer. “We hope the conference will increase student body awareness of the diversity of peace issues and provide student perceptions of what issues are facing us at this point in history,” she continued.
The conference is set to begin on Friday night at 7:00 with a speech entitled “Thinking Our Way into Acting and Acting Our Way into Thinking in Undergraduate Peace Studies.” This keynote address will be delivered by Anthony Bing, the director of peace and global studies at Earlham College, followed by a reception at 8:30. After the reception, Joseph Gotto, professor of Russian studies at Notre Dame, will present ah original one-act play depicting an imaginary conversation between Mohandas Gandhi and Leo Tolstoy. The evening will be concluded with a video presentation about migrant workers, entitled The Wrath of Grapes.
Saturday morning, the conference will begin at 9:00 with student panel discussions on a variety of topics. “Groups of students in
different rooms will discuss various topics, and people can choose which discussion to listen to. It will be an informal exchange, a time to expand and compare ideas,” said Winnie Romeril, a graduate student organizer of the conference. Among the topics of the panel discussions are South African political thought, racial conflict in the United States, internal politics of development, women’s issues, transitions to democracy, environmental problems in the Amazon ba-• sin and community service as community building. At 4:00, the Center for Social Concerns, which is concurrently celebrating ten years of operation, will host a reception at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center.
Throughout the weekend, students’ artwork pertaining to peace and social justice issues will be on display at the conference center in the Kroc Institute at the Hesburgh Center for Peace Studies. The exhibition will feature photos from the war in El Salvador taken by Steve Molliere, a local photographer who has previously exhibited his work in the Snite Museum of Art. Throughout the conference, alumni of the peace studies concentration will be on hand to discuss their occupations and experiences as graduates of the peace studies program.
The organizers would like to stress that all students are welcome to attend the events of the peace conference.	□
5
SCHOLASTIC

0 a m pus Wafc/7
gipper@nd.edu 303 La Fortune 631-7569
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO
To commemorate the introduction of our brand-spanking-new-ultra-left-wing-radi-cal-way-out-there-politically-correct 1993-4 staff, this brand-new Gipp (yours truly) has written a little melody:
:', 'a ■.’ The Notre Dame Nobodies •, WY (to	•„
Come and listen to m ystory ‘bout a: map named Ned," Rich city boy, he never made his'bed. f ; ' Theh‘one\day,?^hHeiaw^
He woke upto find, ■	: <‘7’
Allthepeople are the same. 7m7:7-77-i71-^
Plain that is,Billy Joel iL ’ L.L,:Beaii,;;i::^ J
Next thing you know: ■ ol Ned grew put his hair <	'
Rp6rnmates:said, Ned move away from there! . i ‘Said that Cafifprnia’s the place you ought tb.bp ^ ■ Sohe loaded up his beamer,iapd hemoved tp.Berkeley J;:. U thatIS,:.;". ;actiyi^;,Jnudity:;.7::^
Well now it’s time to say goodbye toNed and his leftist kin Unless you cut:your hair, don’t tother dpoppiri’Am ButIguessyou’reinvitedbacktocheeron'olN^ and t£> have a hopin' helpin’ of my identity. 7 ^	:
Catholic that is,; L.’ in bed by nine ah' keep yowr clothes on.
Yi’allpoine back now, you hear? 7iCC'cCt ;
OK, this song has nothing to do with the new Scholastic staff, but that doesn’t mean the Gipp isn’t going to keep his eye out for an occasional stray piece of gossip which might possibly lead to a ground-breaking story. That is not to say the Gipp would report idle speculation or hearsay. Suppose he/she gets wind of a rumor that Patty O’Hara works nights at Knocker’s Lounge. The Gipp would not just run off and print a statement like that in the magazine. That would be unethical. The Gipp will only write responsible journalism, following the procedure used by top journalism professionals: “Patty O’Hara allegedly works nights at Knocker’s Lounge.”
With that in mind, the Gipp encourages
tips on semi-substantiated possibly reported half-truths to be sent in immediately.
PERVERTS
IN THE BRARE???
The Gipp believes something strange is going on in the old Hesburgh Memorial. Responding to an anonymous e-mail tip, yours truly set out to investigate. Several pages appear to have been ripped out from the last three months of Glamour Magazine. Carefully recording each page number and double-checking against original un-tainted material, the Gipp was horrified to discover that someone had stealthily removed each and every girl’s underwear ad from the pages of the before-mentioned periodical. A magazine best-buy panty shopper? A David Koresh disciple maybe? The plot thickens
... The Gipp’s other tip reported all fifteen books from an entire call number missing from the ‘brare collection. From which section you ask? The section on masturbation! !! There must be a link...
FREUD'S PIPE DREAM
The same highly anonymous incredibly secret informer, X, also brought a variety of questionable library works to the Gipp's attention: MenWho Beat the Men Who Love Them, Diamonds are a Dyke’s Best Friend, and Kicking the Habit: A LesbianNun Story. X requested an explanation for such works as The Baptism & The Toilets, Steal the Urine Test and Vinegar Puss. The Gipp’s hypothesis? All these extremely useful
works benefit the renewed emphasis on research at the nation’s universities.
In keeping with this theme, the Gipper punched in a few entries to see what new earth-shattering research has entered the intellectual community. Among the highly valuable research discoveries, the Gipp encountered several new and very illuminating historical studies, including: The History of Underclothes, A Pictorial Study of Hollywood Nudity and A Historical Study of the Testicles of the Rabbit. On the more scientific side, New Views on the Process of Defecation is bound to shed some light on an often confusing subject. None of these, of course, are in the Hesburgh Rare Books Collection, but The Urine Dance of the Zuni Indian is.*
NOTHING TO DO
WITH PERVERSION
(thank God!)
The Gipp has the alleged inside word on a simple inter-computer cluster move to take place this summer. DeBartalo’s Ilci ’ s will be replaced by new Sentra 610’s, which in turn will replace the brare’s SE 30’s, which will be promptly hauled off to LaFortune to replace their SE’s, after, of course, they replace the O’Shag adding machine’s with Turbo Nuclear Ultra Cougar Ilgx’s. These simplechangesare to provide Arts&Letters students with faster, more efficient methods of losing term papers, erasing data and destroying hard drives.
LET THEM EAT‘ZA!
Gipp has caught wind that certain high level student government officials are trying to replace the Lebrachaun Pizza Co® with the best pizza ever made since the dawn of time— Bruno's! The Gipp highly endorses this measure, but wonders: Is HPC in on this?
* They’re all in there, I swear. Check UNLOC.
MARCH 25,1993

IS GOb
AT A
CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY?
Non-Catholics at Notre Dame find their Gods — not an easy task at a Catholic university
by Michelle Crouch
From required semesters of theology to parietals, the “Catholic character of
Notre Dame” still dominates life on the Notre Dame campus. For the 14 percent of students here who are not Catholic, this Catholic nature often makes life somewhat complicated and uncomfortable. Yet most of the Protestants, Muslims, Jews and other non-Catholics at Notre Dame have found ways to practice and merge their faiths with their lives at a Catholic university.
For many Notre Dame non-Catholics, finding a place to worship is their first challenge. The university attempts to help by sending these students a directory of different places of worship in the South Bend area.
However, as Baptist sophomore Jeremy Sample commented, “It’s still difficult because the Baptist churches are off campus and there’s limited access to these churches.”
Because of similar difficulties and the small number of non-Christian places of worship in South Bend, many non-Christian students have discovered alternatives to attending official worship services.
On Fridays, the traditional Islamic day of prayer, members of the Muslim Student Association leave from the library circle to go to the community center in married-student housing. There they pray, prostrate and listen to readings from the Koran with other Muslims in the South Bend community. Because they lack an Imam, the person who usually speaks at Friday prayers, all of the members share the duties of the service.
In addition, the Muslim Student Association provides an opportunity for its members to meet in the Center for Social Concerns every day to offer noon prayers together as a group.
Although very few students at Notre Dame are Jewish, there are ways for them to congregate with others of their faith also. For example, freshman Josh Landman found an area temple in which to worship when his rabbi at home gave him the name of a rabbi here.
Other individuals choose to worship alone, often because they are unable to find either a place of worship or other people with whom to worship.
“If I have to pray, I sit down and pray,” said Hindu freshman Rishab Kapur. “I keep
figurines of gods on my desk so if I want to pray, I can do it to them.”
Another Hindu student, freshman Dirag Mehra, also prays alone but enriches his worship by listening to religious tapes in Hindi about once a month.
Because of the small number of non-
Catholics at Notre Dame, they are often questioned about their religions by Catholic students who are unfamiliar with other faiths. In the process, these nonCatholics encounter various misconceptions about their respective religions.
“People think that [Baptists] just shout in church all the time and the services are all disorganized,” said senior Geofrilyn Walker.
The president of the Baptist Student Union, senior Rebecca Krieg, also pointed out that students at Notre Dame often confuse Christianity with Catholicism. They do not realize that there are many different denominations within the faith of Christianity.
The Islamic faith has been the subject of various misconceptions as well. One misconstruence is that Muslims have a de
$
SCHOLASTIC
rogatory view of women, but this is actually a cultural practice in countries that happen to be Islamic. Actually, women hold an exalted place in the Islamic religion, according to Islamic senior Jack Daly. The terrorist practices of some who claim themselves to be Muslim also breed misconceptions.
“The media is a very powerful tool in the United States,” said junior Frank McGehee, “People turn to the TV and instead of using their own minds, they like it to think for them. The recent bombing in NewYork City has caused stereotyping that reflects on all Muslims.”
Certain scenes from the movie MalcolmX has caused confusion between the Nation of Islam, an extremist branch of Islam practiced by mostly African-Americans in the U.S., and pure Islam, which abhors any type of racism. This confusion has led people to ask Muslims like Zulfiqar Bokhari, the president of the Muslim Student Association, if he thinks whites are “blue-eyed, blond-haired devils or satans,” he commented.
Most non-Catholicstudents knew Notre Dame was a Catholic school when they decided to come here. However, some of them did not realize what that entailed. Consequently, some of them have felt uncomfortable with some signs of Notre Dame's “Catholic character.”
“It seems like everyone here is Catholic.
®I	RELIGIONSOF THEWORLD* ft? ft ft-
[HINDU-' Believe in one God, which manifests in many different forms.: Three main parts of this God: Brahma, the Creator; Shiva, the Destroyer; • Vishnu, the Preserver. They pray to figurines of these Gods and; they give sacrifices in forms of food or charity.
' ISLAM- :Main holy boo^	Believe Allah (God) sent 28
prophets to mankind, including Jesus- and Moses, the last being Mohammed. Five pillars of lslam: confession of faith, prayer five times daily, fasting during sacred month of Ramadam, almsgiving, and making a pilgrimage to Mecca.
PROTESTANT- Any of the Christian churches that-seceded from the Church of Rome. Emphasizes the principle of religious liberty, with.the Bible as the sole authority in religion, Rejects supremacy of the Church hierarchy, f JUDAISM-feConcentrates on thcOld Testament. Stresses man's relationship with God.: Religion coversicivil laws as well as religious ones, Through faith, good living and conduct, salvation may be attained. .:y
* We acknowledge that this only describes the few religions covered in this article. We do not mean to disregard the importance of the various other,wodd^religibns.	'	, Ji.'- ' •	.- -:?
If they weren’t Catholic when they got here, it seems like they converted,” said Landman, who has yet to encounter another Jewish student on the Notre Dame campus.
According to both non-Catholic Christians and non-Chris-tians, one of their most disturbing times is Sunday nights,'when
most of the undergraduates go to Mass in their dorms:
“When I first got here, I remember being the only guy in my section when everyone went to Mass,” recalled Bokhari. “Freshmen need a sense of belonging, and it only reminded me of my differences.”
During football season, it is a tradition for the football team to attend a Mass before each game. This can be uncomfortable because many of the football players do not practice Catholicism. Player Jeremy Sample remembers, “When I went to my first Mass, I didn’t understand what was going on at all. Now I understand, but it doesn’t make me want to change to Catholicism.”
Landman, a soccer player, had a similar experience when he attended a Mass for all
Muslim student Zulfiqar Bokhari studies the Arabic writings in the Koran.
athletes. While he was there, his father called and his roommate said, “He’s at Mass.” “My father called me later, and he was freaked out,” said Landman.
For obvious reasons, non-Christians seem to experience more difficulty accepting indications of the university's Catholicism than their Christian counterparts.
“One thing that bothers me is that in every classroom I walk into there’s a cross. That drives me crazy,” said Landman. “I understand why it’s there and it shouldn’t upset me, but it does.”
Similarly, Daly commented: “For me, all of the statues and the icons which are not present in Islam are hard to swallow. They’re not accurate portrayals, so why should they be accepted as likenesses?”
“It makes me feel uncomfortable in the sense that I don’t think the university proactively recognizes that there are nonChristians on campus,” explained a Jewish graduate student who wishes to remain anonymous. “In the last two years, more attention has been paid to the non-Catholic Christian, but they assume everyone here is Christian, even though they know we’re here.”
“This place really is a hotbed for closed-mindedness,” according to Daly, “I feel really hurt at the Catholic Church sometimes ... Rather than showing the world that Catholics are truly open to other faiths, it presents the university as a place with rather dogmatic thought.”
Despite their feelings of alienation or discomfort, the non-Catholic students in
terviewed acknowledged a recognition of Catholicism as an integral part of Notre Dame which they must accept. Overall, they have turned their exposure to a different religious environment into a learning experience.
“At Notre Dame, I have been exposed to Christianity and Catholicism,” said Rishab. “I’ve really gotten the feel of another religion, which has been educational.”
Bokhan agreed: “Being at Notre Dame has made me into a much more thoughtful and a more devoted Muslim because I had never been exposed to any kind of religious institution before. It forced me to go back and reevaluate and reconsider my religion. I realized that my religion is very much a part of my identity, and I have gained a deeper and more thorough understanding of my religion.”
r g ^he university has made an effort in the A past few years to make life more com-
fortable for the non-Catholic students at Notre Dame. In addition to sending lists of places of worship to all non-Catholic fresh
men and graduate students, Campus Ministry sponsors a Bible study that students from a wide variety of religious backgrounds are invited to attend.
“Students are pretty much at ease,” explained Father Al D’ Alonzo, the coordinator of these prayer groups, “because most of these students have been brought up with some kind of Biblical tradition.” Campus Ministry also sponsors interfaith retreats and Christian rallies.
The Center for Social Concerns contributes by allowing different religious groups such as the Baptist Student Union and the Muslim Student Association hold prayer meetings or Bible studies in its facility.
During Ramadam, a month-long period when Muslims are supposed to fast from sunrise to sunset, the university has made arrangements so that they can eat their meals around these times.
When asked about other accommodations made for non-Christians at Notre Dame, Father D* Alonzo replied, “We give them the opportunity to learn about what Christians believe through a religious lecture series
which anyone is welcome to attend.”
Although mostnon-Catholics were thankful for these arrangements, many students, especially non-Christians, offered more suggestions of other ways the university could further accommodate them.
“A first step would be some type of multicultural center,” said Daly, echoing the suggestion of a large number of the students interviewed. “Coming out of that naturally would be a type of inter-religious dialogue which would open people’s minds and foster good-will between the faiths,” he said.
Other students also proposed diversify ing the faculty even more, more nonChristian religion courses, public acknowledgement of the non-Catholics here, and excusing them from classes on their important religious holidays.
Overall, the students seemed to agree with one student who said, “The whole thing is very complicated because I don’t think the university should abandon its Catholic mission; that’s what it’s here for.” □
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich »
■	[n
For ANY Size Appetite I! I
CfPOS faFE
Jazzy Weekend
On its 35th anniversary, the Collegiate Jazz Festival looks to bring life to the Notre Dame campus
i ।
i
I
by Catherine Hechmer
A REYOUINTOLIFE—intensity,pas sion, energy, fun, spontaneity, beauty, freedom, excitement, power, laughter, creativity, emotion, you know— Life? If you believe that you are, then come to Stepan Center at 7:30 p.m. next Friday, April 2.
The annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival looks to offer one of best slices of
LIFE this place has to offer. Rarely are we lucky enough (for less than $10) to hear one great artist perform. To have five of the best, together on one stage, giving voice to life as few people can— this is a privilege not to be taken for granted.
In fact, the Jazz Festival offers a truly ‘once-in-a-lifetime’ opportunity, because the music that will be played here on that first weekend in April will never be played again. The heart of jazz is improvisation. The jazz artist essentially recreates a piece of music every time he or she plays it. Take a basic tune, add passion, humor, romance, joy or pain, or whatever else (Life) the artist feels like expressing at that moment, and you have jazz. No two performances are the same. Improvisation is a hit-or-miss endeavor, but for thirty-four years, the musicians at the Jazz Festival have been providing their listeners with an overwhelming majority of hits.
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival
was the first of its kind when it began in 1959, and served as a model for those that followed. In his 1986 book detailing the history of the festival, past festival chairperson Joseph Kuhn Carey credits the Notre Dame Jazz Festival and other college festivals that followed its lead as the driving force behind legitimizing jazz education on a college level.
Al Jarreau and Jim Pankow (who later helped found the rock group Chicago) appeared at the Festival as college students, as
The Fredonia Jazz Ensemble practices for the upcoming Collegiate Jazz Festival.
did current jazz greats Randy and Michael Brecker.
The Festival is not run as a competition; commendations are given for the excellence of particular groups or individuals, but it is primarily a chance for student jazz musicians from across the country to learn from one another and from the highly-respected panel
of professional artists who evaluate each group’s performance and offer constructive criticism. Past judges include Stan Kenton, Dizzy Gillespie, Henry Mancini, Wynton and Branford Marsalis, Herbie Hancock and David Sanborn. This year’s judges are Jon Faddis on trumpet, Jimmy Heath on tenor saxophone, Mulgrew Miller on piano, Rufus Reid on bass and Carl Allen on drums.
At Notre Dame, one does not often have the opportunity to meet students from other
universities, much less get to hear them perform Listening to a group from M.I.T. might dispel a few stereotypes about engineers. In addition, this year’s festival includes two groups from Notre Dame, bands from Purdue, Western Michigan, Eastern Illinois, Northern Iowa, William Paterson College, the Crane School of Music and Michigan State, who will be joined by former Chicago jazz legend Bunky Green. It is a “collegiate” event, and college is about education.
And education is about LIFE. If you have decided that you are into Life, do not miss the chance to immerse yourself in Life’s musical celebration for an hour or two next weekend. An all-session pass is only $7. Tickets for Friday night are $4, and for Saturday afternoon and night they are $2 and $3 respectively. They are sold at the door and at LaFortune in advance. So set aside a few dollars. You are into life? So go. You owe it to yourself.	□
Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to : Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 25
Forum: "Conflicts Over Granting Full Clergy Rights to Women: A Comparitive and Historical Approach," Maik Chavez, 12:15 p.m., 131 Decio.
Lecture: "Journey of Hope," Robert Gross, Journey of Hope coordinator and Ruth Andrews,Victim and Offender Reconciliation Program, 12:00 p.m., Courtroom, Law School.
Seminar: "Institutional Changes in the U.S. Presidency: the Case of the Progressive Era," Peri E Arnold, 4:15 p.m., Room C-103 Hesburgh Center.
Lecture: "Government and Tribal Relations," Jerry Hill, 7:00 p.m., 117 Hagger Hall.	.
Visiting Artist Lecture Series: "Bernini's Bust of the Savior and the Problem of the Homeless in the 17th Century Rane," Irving Lavin, Princeton University, 7:30 p.m., Snite.
Movie: "Die Hard 2," 8:00 & 10:30 pun., Cushing Auditorium, $2. ■
Friday
26
Concert: Shenanigans spring concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Lecture: "Compassionate Care of the Dying," Rev. James F. Bresnahan, S.J., Northwestern University, 4:00p.m., CCE Auditorium.
Lecture: "A New Paradigm in the Sociology of American Religion," R. Stephen Warner, University of Illinois, 3:30 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune.
Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Miami University (Ohio), 4:00 p.m., Eck Pavilion. Keynote Address: "Thinking and Acting: The Challenge of Undergraduate Peace Education," Anthony Bing, Earlham College, 7:00 p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium.
Film: "The Nasty Girl," 7:30 & 9:30 pjn., Snite, $2.
Movie: "Under Siege," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Sophomore Siblings Weekend
Saturday 27
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Hobart, Moose Krause Field, 2:00 p.m.
Film: "The Nasty Girl," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
Movie: "Under Siege," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Sophomore Siblings Weekend
:"Z-, \\	‘V	/ .''.‘S' ■ 'T':x	"
LaFortune InformationDesk:
Senior Class: 631-5136
Snite Film Series Hot Line:
631^36WiftIWS^^
Sophomore Class: 631 -5225 : / , ?•? ND News Line: 631-5110
JACC Ticket Information:
Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111
Weekend Wheels Schedule:
. a ■C
I
I
7
<
I
7
I
Touch Four
x 1031 for local weather
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather x 6050 for news headlines • x 6123 for movie reviews x 6052 for world news X 9595 party line x6121 for top pop albums x 6238 for TV sports events [ x6571 for prime time TV	x 6230 for national sports report
j x 6129 for video releases?	x 6263 for college basketball
Bunday 28
Concert: Faculty Ensemble, Notre )ame String Trio, Washington Hall, 1:00 p.m.
Sophomore Siblings Weekend
Tuesday 30
Film: "Women in Love," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "La Nuit de Varennes" 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
Softball: Notre Dame vs. Indiana University, 3:00 p.m.
Wednesday 31
Softball: Notre Dame vs. Western Michi-
gan, 3:00 p.m.
Monday 29
>*Um: "Bad Timing/Sensual Obsession," ' :00 p.m., Snite, $2.
i'ilms: "Inauguration of Pleasure Dome," Divinations," "Peyote Queen," "Shaman' nd "Piece Mandala/End War," 9:15 p.m., inite, $2.
^ecture Series: "Thinking Anew about
*ublic Issues," Alex Kotlowitz, author, ':30 p.m., Library Auditorium.
Movie Theatres:
100 Center Cinema I&II:
' 7'	259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583-	?
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090	/
: University Park Cinema East: ' ■.	277-7336	'
; University Park Cinema West: A 277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema: '277-1522.';';-
5
Sagars
(DormSweet (Dorm
After a controversial ruling, Notre Dame athletic scholarship winners will be required to call Notre Dame home
by Amanda Clinton
What did you do on January 29,1993?
Can you remember? For a group of Notre Dame juniors on athletic scholarships, that Friday is difficult to forget.
When junior Chris Ross received his on-campus housing contract in the mail after Christmas, he tossed it aside and forgot about it. He had already signed a lease and made arrangements for next year to live with a group of his friends in a house off campus.
But on January 29, just two working days before Notre Dame housing contracts were due, Ross, a member of the track team who attends Notre Dame on a partial athletic scholarship, was informed he would not be permitted by the university to live off campus.
In a controversial decision, the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics voted to require all scholarship athletes to live on campus. The board is comprised of representatives from every college at Notre Dame as well as several administrators — Patricia O’Hara, vice president of student affairs; Fr. William Beauchamp, executive vice presiden't and Richard Rosenthal, athletic director.
On January 27, the Notre Dame athletic
f ‘‘MndRosfenthal said that ri coiild make new friends
department sent a letter to all coaches informing them that the board decided to reverse the policy which had allowed scholarship athletes to live off campus. The board neglected to realize that students who want to live off campus have to make arrange
ments in the fall semester.
ButNotre Dame assistant athletic director Missy Conboy said that the athletic department told coaches their players shouldn't sign any off-campus housing contracts until the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics voted on the policy.
“We told coaches prior to Christmas that their players should not sign any contracts until the board met in late January,” Conboy remarked. “But I can’t tell you that every coach sat down and communicated it to their teams.”
Despite already signing a lease, putting down money to reserve a house and discussions with Rosenthal, Ross was told to turn in his housing contract and arrange to live on campus next year.
“Mr. Rosenthal said that I could make new friends my senior year,” Ross said.
The decision to change the policy came as a surprise to many because just last year, for the first time in Notre Dame history, seniors on athletic scholarships were allowed to live off campus.
The board decided in 1992 to allow senior athletes on scholarships to live off campus because of both an increase in scholarships and a demand by athletes to be treated in the same way as other students, a guideline of the NCAA.
The policy operated by directing scholarship money first toward tuition, then to a meal plan and finally to a stipend for off-campus housing.
Junior softball player Carrie Miller also made arrangements to live off campus on the assumption that the policy would remain in place for her senior year.
“I am supposed to live with three people next year, and none of them are here. Two are abroad, and one is not here this semester because of financial reasons,” said Miller. “I talked to Rosenthal a few times. He told me
he would be unhappy if I didn’t find aperson to replace me. But people are already set in what they are doing next year. He told me I should be able to find a person to replace me because they are lots of friendly people on campus.”
The board voted to discontinue the off-
h;: “They said they would
any intention ot changing
campus program for scholarship athletes because of reasons ranging from class attendance to nutrition to exclusiveness.
"If you live in Walshm, you have a much better chance of making it to class on a snowy day than someone living at Campus View," Conboy said.
Some argue that Notre Dame's reputation depends on the actions of its athletes.
“Notre Dame prides itself on being a residential campus. If an athlete isn’t going to class it effects the university. If they have to come back for a fifth year it hurts our reputation and hurts us financially,” explained Conboy.
The board was also worried that students living off campus were not eating with health concerns in mind.
“There is also a nutritional concern,” remarked Conboy. “People might not like the dining hall but at least it attempts to serve the four food groups.”
Jen Walsh, a junior on a soccer scholarship, argues that just because the dining hall serves a variety of foods doesn't mean that
SilOLASUC
athletes are eating in a healthy manner.
“To tell you the honest truth, I eat more junk in the dining hall with them serving noodle cooble than if I could cook for myself,” said Walsh. “They said they made the decision in the best interests of the students. But I would eat better and it would be cheaper if I lived off.”
Others argue that athletes who don’t live
“I have a tuition scholarship,” Miller stated. “They don’t pay for my room and board, but they tell me what to do.”
in the dorms tend to live with players from their respective teams and are not an active part of the student body.
“I don't agree with that at all,” Walsh argued. “When you move off campus you live in with acommunity of students. You're more isolated in the dorms because you don't meet as many people. ... What kind of a community is it anyway when all the seniors move off and you're stuck in the dorm by yourself?”
At the same time, not all athletes want to live with team members. Both Chris Ross and Carrie Miller were planning on living with friends who are noton the track team or softball team respectively.
Despite all these concerns, the board did not say that any of these reasons were a cause for the change of the policy.
“There was nota single problem or behavior that caused the reversal. There were no disciplinary problems. The board had a slight change in faculty makeup. New people support different things,” commented Conboy.
Although the decision to require scholarship athletes to remain on campus did anger many students, some were more upset with the way the board handled communicating its decision than the actual decision itself.
One of the details the board overlooked was the short notice given to athletes to make arrangements to live at Notre Dame and change their plans from living in South
Bend.
“I would have been more understanding if they had made the decision earlier,” remarked Miller.
When the board decided to institute a program for athletes on scholarship to live off campus in 1992, the athletic department sent letters to all juniors informing them of their option to live off campus. The letter also explained that this was just a trial program. However, because the letter was sent only to juniors, some of the then sophomores (now juniors) did not know that they might not have the opportunity to live off campus as well during their senior year.
“They claimed that everyone knew that it was experimental but no one did, players or coaches. I thought it was permanent,” said Ross.
Many athletes are angered that the board based its decision on a six month trial period.
“They said that they would give it a year but they didn’t,” said Miller. “I don’t think they ever had any intention of changing it permanently.”
Athletes who already signed leases are also upset by the money they lost. However, Conboy said Rosenthal is working to help students get their deposits back. At the same time, the athletic department maintained that students shouldn’t have signed leases until the decision of the board was announced.
While many athletes appealed the board’s
t athletes that iHhey ires j ! not in the dorm and do f! hot have; niyitil presence,^ then they arerisking their J scholarships^’ stated
V : Conhby. ;; ss]
decision, three athletes were allowed to make arrangements to live off campus next year due to special circumstances. One student is enrolled in the graduate school. Notre Dame policy allows graduate students to live off campus. Another student will be going home frequently to visit a parent with an illness. An off-campus living arrangement will be less expensive for that student’s fam
ily. And the third student has a medical problem that makes campus living impossible.
Miller, on a partial scholarship, was angry
“Since some people have a full scholarship, they have enough money to keep a room off campus. That shows this rule isn’t effective,” explained
Walsh.
that the board turned down her appeal to live off campus.
“I have a tuition scholarship,” Miller stated. “They don’t pay for my room and board, but they tell me what to do.”
Besides the three exceptions, all other scholarship athletes are required to live in the dorms and the athletic department plans to crack down on athletes who try to get away with living off campus.
“Dick will tell the athletes that if they are not in the dorm and do not have a vital presence, then they are risking their scholarships,” stated Conboy.
In the past, when scholarship athletes were not allowed to live off campus, there were some students who broke this rule anyway. Athletes on partial scholarship are the first to say that students on full scholarship sometimes have enough money to secretly afford keeping a room off campus.
“Since some people have a full scholarship, they have enough money to keep a room off campus. That shows this rule is not effective,” explained Walsh.
At this point there are no plans to ask the board to reconsider its decision.
“I don’t think it will be a year to year proposition,” said Notre Dame assistant athletic director Brian Boulac. “If there are enough new people on the board, then they will vote again.”
In the meantime, Chris Ross, Carrie Miller, Jen Walsh and many others will have to be content living under the shadow of the golden dome for another year despite their efforts and desire to live off campus. □
MARCH 25,1993 ; 
Sbts
Lead by first year head coach Liz Miller, the Notre Dame softball team is racing past the competition
by Jeff Weghorst
The Notre Dame softball team is like a Porsche. When the squad began varsity competition just four seasons ago, it sped on the expressway to success. It became addicted to the passing lane. The competition didn’t see it coming.
Vrooom! There goes the Midwestern Collegiate Conference.
Vrooom! There goes about thirty other regionally-ranked teams.
Vrooom! There’s the exit for national recognition. Speed up!
Entering its fifth season of play, the strength of the Notre Dame softball squad is
no longer a secret. The foundation has been built The Irish have become a target for the
competition. Ranked sixth in the region, the take the smart risks and be prepared to steal team welcomes the challenges posed to it by bases.
After leading the Lake Michigan College softball team to 12 conference championships, Liz Miller Is now directing the Notre Dame softball team to success.
new head coach Liz Miller. It is time, she says, to take the next step and enter Phase II.
Miller knows all about winning. A coach at Lake Michigan College for over a decade, she brings a wealth of experience to the team. She led LMC to 12 conference championships, 11 regional titles and top ten national rankings on ten occasions.
She claims that Notre Dame was the only place that she would have left LMC for.
‘T ve always had a preference for the small school atmosphere. Even though Notre Dame is Division I, it has that small school
atmosphere.”
Miller’s coaching philosophy is simple: basic fundamentals and aggressiveness. Teams that have the fundamentals down pat
avoid slumps. Aggressiveness generates offense. Coach Miller demands that her squad
“She’s very intense. She’s made the team intense. I think that within the next two or
three years Notre Dame will be going to the NCAA’s all the time,” explained senior Ronny Alvarez.
Miller’s job, however, has been made easier by the strong senior leadership of the team. Alvarez and Staci Alford captain the squad and are joined in the leadership role by four other seniors. Unfortunately, two of these players are on the injury list. Debbie Boulac has been sidelined with a stress fracture in her foot .while Sheri Quinn is
battling mononucleosis.
“The seniors have been doing a great job thus far. This is the most non-cliqued team I’ve ever coached. That really helps our
chemistry, and it makes it more fun to coach them too,” said Coach Miller.
“There’s a healthy competition,” explained Alvarez, “It’s a team of everyone wanting to play.”
There’s certainly competition for starting spots on this squad as the team has depth at every position.
The Irish are blessed with four excellent pitchers. The staff, led by Staci Alford, will . take pleasure in driving hitters batty. Alford, a finesse pitcher, fits well into Coach Miller’s game plan and she complements the rest of the staff very well.
“She can be a starter, but she’s the best relief pitcher that I’ve ever coached. She has great pitch location, andagreatchange-up,” stated Coach Miller.
Joining Alford on the pitching staff are junior Carrie Miller, and freshmen Terri Kobata and Kara Brandenburger. Carrie -Miller uses her curve ball to work and setup batters.
“There wasn’t much of an adjustment period for the freshmen,” said Alford, “There is confidence in both.”
SCHOLASTIC
Receiving the handiwork of these players will be catchers Sara Hayes and Andrea Keys., Because the Irish sometimes play three games in a day, it is necessary to have two catchers. Both sophomores, Hayes and Keys have done excellent jobs in directing the defense. Hayes was a member of the MCC All-Tournament Team and was MCC Newcomer of the Year in her freshman campaign. She led the team with a .296 batting average and six home runs.
Hayes and Keys are also splitting time at third base, filling in for the injured Debbie Boulac. The comer is particularly hot this season because the NCAA has introduced a new, solid poly-core ball. According to Coach Miller, this ball is livelier, making the game more exciting for the fans and really exciting for the third baseman. The fielder should either be quick on her toes or be ready to invest in some ice packs.
“The new ball makes it harder,” explained Coach Miller, “A lot of third basemen wear mouthguards.”
Rounding out the infield will be junior Christy Connoyer at shortstop, sophomore Michele Cline at second base and junior Stephanie Pinter at first.
Connoyer is moving over to short from second base. Always under control, she makes the tough plays. She’ll be working closely with Cline, a real competitor who is, according to Coach Miller, playing beyond her expectations.
Pinter is, at this point, the most improved player on the squad. She is extremely quick on defense said Coach Miller.
The outfield is led by Ronny Alvarez in center. S he is joined by Carrie Miller in left and senior Lisa Miller in right. When Carrie Miller is on the mound, junior Amy Reuter sees action. Sophomore Liz Goetz has also seen some playing time.
Coach Miller expects that both Alvarez and Lisa Miller will frustrate opponents with their base stealing abilities. Lisa Miller also has the strongest arm on the team, stated Coach Miller.
The Irish face their toughest schedule ever this year, playing regionally-ranked teams like Missouri, Western Illinois and the University of South Florida. Coach Miller thinks their toughest game will be against the University of Illinois-Chicago, the only team which has beaten number one Michigan.
If the recent spring break trip is any indication of the future, the Irish will have no problems competing with these teams. Playing against squads from California, Notre Dame took on some of the top competion in the country. The Irish ended up defeating five regionally-ranked teams. Coach Miller is quick to add that teams from California have the advantages of warm weather, and can do a lot more in practice.
The goals which Coach Miller has set for this team are very clear: win the MCC and gain national recognition. While it will be difficult for the squad to make the NCAA’s this year, it is important that the rest of the country learn to take Notre Dame seriously. Then, in the future, the Irish will be strongly considered for a tournament invitation.
Co-captain Alvarez also has a goal in mind. She wants the Irish to stay intense, even when they are playing the teams they’re supposed to beat. This squad, she claims, will not be “just showing up” for any of its contests.
It sounds like this team is ready to shift gears again. Let the competition be warned. You’re about to be...
Vrooom!	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Randy Colley: Colley, a junior from Wilton, CT, led the Notre Dame lacrosse team to victory against the University of Maryland-Baltimore County last weekend. The Retrievers were ranked 19th in thecountry at the time. Colley, an attackman, tallied five goals during the game. Because of this win, the Irish are now the 16th best team in the nation.
Tanya Williams: Williams, aseniorfromFort Lauderdale,FL,broke her personal records in the 100- and 200-yard breaststrokes at the NCAA championship swimming meet last weekend. In the200-yard individual medley, Williams swam her fastest time this season. She is the only swimmer in Irish history to qualify for the NCAAs four times.
MARCH	17
by Tony Leonardo with Brad Keck
This is the new Out of Bounds writer/
Entertainment editor for the upcoming year, and let me tell you, I am enjoying my journalistic freedom and imminent power. In fact, just to exercise
my power, I might change the column’s name to “In Bounds” or “No Bounds” or maybe just to “Stuff’, but in any case the ideas behind the column will more than likely remain the same. And for this reason I must credit the indomitable J. Bradley Keck for his editorship over the past year and the smooth transition of this position. Suggestions to the column are always welcome, though shor.t nasty little letters comparing me to a plate of pasta are not.
RR. Please
Just what goes into journalistic entertainment columns anyway? How do I decide what to put in this week’s section? And just how do I find out about all this entertaining stuff to watch, listen, or do? Well, folks, that’s where the miracle of capitalism comes into play. A friend of mine worked for a P.R. firm this past summer in Manhattan, and I was regularly informed of the proceedings of these press-release (hence P.R.) monsters. His firm represented mostly magazines, but they also represented such diverse subjects as vodka, a rap
spokesman, and collectible cars. His job was to call up magazines, newspapers and T.V. shows and promote his particular product Since my friend was particularly weasely and convincing over the phone, he had great success wheedling newspapers and magazines into writing little articles or
stories upon that particular topic. An example would be something like this:
Ring, ring. “Hello, Scholastic?” “Hi,
my name is Chet Lemon, I’m calling from the P.R. firm Z and we’re representing Brand X vodka, an exquisite mouth-watering — (insert glorious paragraph praising
HaVe you ever stuped to think about radip' station calLletters? WelTthisweekw»dtOO^
Billboard magazirie, ire going to exploretlie phenomenon in our favorite medium-A-Jhe quiz. Before we mbve to stations across the nation, let’s have a fe:w questions abputbur own part of .the world./ ' - -'/ A';	A A
15 ;What bo-Wtf W^NJ^
2^ What Chicago station prdrnbtesits subsidiary’s newspaper through itscalllettO^^J/:^
MaWthe following call letter^: to the area
5.5c. New Mexico ".'fh 6A-KSPDiif.\
lOffKNDN flff '	- h.-S^
Gfedt jobl Jn case you ^e ^onddnn^rW oWndd 15 Sears,stands^
Worth/Texas, stands for“k^p folks quoting &
jshield:miMipn^
Brand X vodka)—and since we know this is a collegiate weekly, an article on Brand X will fit right in with other interests of your clientele. This helps both you and I out. Let me fax you some information on Brand X right now, and send you some sample sizes if I can —well yes, I can —
how about 10 airplane-sized bottles?” “Uh, sure. Sounds good to me.” “Great, its been a pleasure talking to you Tony, and I
hope to be talking to you some more in the future.”
And Voila! An article on tasty Brand X vodka appears. This method is both good and bad. It’s great for me because
I get all of the free stuff, but it tends to undermine my journalistic integrity. However, I must admit that this does not happen here atScholastic because our circulation is not large. But wouldn't it be nice?
Movie Buzz
Yes! The elite Oscars are finally about to arrive, and boy has the media kept us slobbering. Is it just me, or did you already think they were held too? I swear this Oscar thing has been hyped for the past month. But it's finally here on Monday. The inside scoop sez that Clint Eastwood’s Unforgiven is a lock to sweep most of the awards including best picture, best director (Eastwood), and best supporting actor (Gene Hackman.) The big movies with the most nominations include Unforgiven, The Crying Game, Howard's End, Malcolm X, A Few Good Men, Scent of a Woman, Aladdin, and The Player.
Marky Mark Unmarked
According to an anonymous source, rap artist and model
Marky Mark, unwashed and heathen, appears on this month's cover of Playgirl with the brazen headline "What Comes Between Him and His Calvins?" Marky Mark has also been spotted on a poster wearing Notre Dame boxers instead of his calvins. We know what's under those.
more stuff on page 24
,1s
•SCHOLASTB
BMMMIHMiMr
Ten Tales of Pixiedust Hammered into a Box
Reviews of the latest Frank Black, Hammerbox and Sting albums
By Kevin McDonough
Frank Black, a.k.a Black Francis, nee
Charles Thompson, a.k.a crazed lead singer of the former Massachusetts legend the Pixies. Now that the Pixies have split up, Black is embarking on that path that all former lead singers attempt to traverse: the solo album. Black has done a great job with this self-titled album and shows no signs of missing his old band mates. The fifteen songs on this album are both a wonderful reminder of how good the Pixies were, and a pleasant introduction to the new influences he is using and those he is creating.
However much one would like to avoid comparisons with Black’s former band, they cannot be avoided completely. The fifteen songs on this album can definitely stand on their own, but they are reminiscent of the Pixies only because Black was the composer of 90 percent of the Pixies’ music and 93 percent of his current album.
The first single and track from the album is “Los Angeles,” with a hard consonant “g” being the correct pronunciation. This song sets the trend for the rest of the album with its abrasive but beautiful mix of acoustic and electric guitars combined with the keyboard work of Eric Feldman, from the avant-garde musical outfit Pere Ubu.
The second track, “I Heard Ramona { Sing,” is a tongue-in-cheek tribute to the Ramones. He sings, “I had so many prob; lems, they walked right in and they solved them.” The music is slow and a bit jangly which complements the slighty skewed humor of the 80’s pop-culture lyrics. Near the close of the song Black croons “If they ever retire, I hope they pull a Menudo.” Scary thought
The album is a complete collection with everything from Come On Pilgrim era Pixies sound to a cover of the Beach Boys’
“Hang On To Your Ego.” Other standout cuts include “Ten Percenter,” “Brackish Boy,” and an incredible instrumental, “Tossed,” that will grind its way through your eardrums after a few plays. This “big eponymous debut album” by Frank Black will be a tasty dish for anyone with an appetite for quality music. He will probably be stopping in Chicago around mid-April, so watch “Out of Bounds” for details. Hope to
see you there.
The second album I encourage you to pick up sometime soon is the major-label debut of Hammerbox. After getting its start on the wonderful independent label C/Z, home of other great rock groups like Treepeople and The Gits, Hammerbox has created for A&M a twelve song gem entitled Numb.
Hammerbox is not a grunge band, nor is it a shoddy concoction of U-93 pop music, but these four musicians have culled influences from both these worlds and blended styles that allow them to defy categorization. Drummer Dave Bosch is solid and talented, as is guitarist Harris Thurmond, but the other two members of Hammerbox are the factors that raise this band above most of the edgy-pop contenders out there. A good deal of bass players these days have a tendency to appear comatose during a song (i.e. U2’s Adam Clayton), but James Atkins displays
an intensity onNumb that continues over the course of the entire album. His beautiful craftsmanship concludes with “Anywhere But Here,” a sonic composition that really shows the listener that this musician knows what the hell he is doing. .
There are also quite a few bands that have a female lead-singer as a twist on the typical “four-man” line-up, but Carrie Akre possesses a beauty in her voice that is a perfect complement to the aggressive style of music that is pounding behind her. On songs such as “Blur,” “Trip” and “God," her voice flows above the music but dips right down with a tiny gutteral feel that blends as if in tandem with Atkins’ bass.
The first single and lead track, “Hole," is a two and one-half minute jaunt that softly pounds your brain to warm you up for the next two, “Hed” and “No.” These two are probably the most aggressive on the album while at the same time staying away from eardrum bursting levels.
Numb is a great album that will definitely please the listener; I suggest picking up a copy. Hammerbox will be appearing with King Missile in Chicago on April 11 and at the State Theatre in Kalamazoo on April 13. Check them out.
Continued on page 24


Tales of the Bizarre from the Nation ’s Universities
Stanford Rakes It In
-	Every Notre Dame student has, at one time or another, dreamed of
i receiving a cut of the profits raked in by our Hammes bookstore.
Come on, we all know that the three-minion percent mark-ups that we pay on every item in the store are allowing this Hamme group to live the life of Riley. Apparently the board which oversees Stanford University’s bookstore has the same idea in mind. Due to losses sustained recently by the store, a luxury vacation home used by } bookstore senior managers as a perk has been offered for sale to the ! tune of $425,000. According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, the California state Attorney General has become suspicious and is instigating an investigation into the store’s compensation policies which include “salaries in excess of $ 100,000 and perquisites such as use of the home, a sailboat, and luxury cars.” At least now students can relieve any guilt or frustration caused by paying these outrageous prices by recognizing that our hard earned funds are ; contributing to the pleasure of others.
This Textbook Smells’
Speaking of bookstores, it is not uncommon for a Notre Dame student to get a little queasy after checking the total cost of a semester’s load of books. But the Daily Kansan reports that textbooks used by University of Kansas biology301 and 302 students literally make the users sick. Six cadavers—two females and four males, all older than the age of 62 — will be used for class instruction throughout this semester. The idea of cutting into human flesh on a regular basis coupled with the pungent aroma of formaldehyde has created difficulties for many students. “F ve had students tell me that they have nightmares with the cadavers in them,” said Darrin Good, graduate teaching assistant for the classes. “Then later in the semester they’re not in their nightmares but just in their dreams.” It’s amazing what a person can adjust to.
Those Crazy Engineers
Contrary to what the Keenan Revue would have us believe, engineering students are not all pocket protector-wearing, colored tube sock-sporting nerds. As University of San Diego engineering students prove, these people know how to cut loose. University students, professional engineers and high-school students wearing “buoyancy shoes” participated in the second annual Walk on Water competition “designed to show that engineering can be fun,” reports the Chronicle of Higher Education, Contestants showcasing shoes made from plastic pipes, styrofoam and inner tubes attempted to stay afloat as they made a 75-foot jaunt over an Olympic-sized swimming pool. What will these characters come up with next?
That Radical Presidency
Like Notre Dame, campuses all over the country are holding student government elections in order to usher in a new reign. An integral part of passing the scepter lies in the review of the last regime’s accomplishments. Students reflect on efforts made to improve undergraduate education, enhance the quality of community life, reform the marijuana policy, hire a university gynecologist ... Yes, you read that correctly. According to the Weekly Collegian, Penn State’s outgoing president and vice-president, Rob Kampia and Beth Schneck, focused on controversial issues like those during their term in office. Penn State students rest divided on the question of whether this pair was well-liked or not, but no one can deny the fact that they grabbed people’s attention. And we thought that proposals for a new storage facility on campus were extreme.
Edited by Jenny Tate
20
Week IniiDistortion
Is A Four Letter Word
By Ken Osgood
ReadingB/oom County, I learned to fear the ways of the most endangered animal on this planet... the wild liberal. I am terribly afraid of being trapped at a Grateful Dead concert with naked activists on LSD screaming in terror, “There are little Jane Fonda’s all over me.” I wake many nights trembling in fear, heart racing, cold sweat dripping from my forehead ... terrified of discovering that I have been transformed into a staff writer for the Village Voice.
I grew up in a town composed of 75 percent retired navy, 25 percent retired senile and lOOpercent Catholic. These are the people that lament the end of the cold war and beg for a new enemy — keep that defense industry pumping! “Pat Buchanan should be booted from the White House,” they complained, “Damned left wingers!” The city pumped money into its police force like Reagan and SDL A town of20,000, our police officers had dune buggies, laser beam radar detectors, a SWAT team, two fire departments, motorcycles and no crime — save the occasional skateboarders on the sidewalk, high schoolers riding double on one bicycle, sixth graders toilet papering houses and me. I was reported by one of my neighbors for walking my dog without a pooper scooper. “Hey Osgood,” they called, “Keep your poop to yourself!” “Hey Jack-son!” they called to their next door neighbors, “Get your damn daughter off welfare.”
Yup, I came from a conservative town,
and I’m going to a conservative university, or so I’m told. One quick visit to WVFI and a discussion over “this damn conservative campus” is second only to praises of new and violent sounds of “music” bands such as the Armpit Hairs, the Ho-Bangers and the Dismembered-Babies-in-Bottles-of-Acedic-Acid. Joining forces with the diminishing Waddick’s crowd, this minority of Berkeley stand-outs combat the ever increasing power of theNotre Dame conservative.
I thought I’d always be conservative. It’s my identity crisis. People ask me if I’m liberal; I say no. I don’t drink coffee at Waddick’s, and I don’t wear combat boots. People ask me if I’m conservative; I say yes. I don’t smoke, and I wear plaid. Conservative to the bone.
Feeling safe in my identity, I relax comfortably until I am suddenly surrounded by the unthinkable, the horror-of-horrors, the you’ll-shoot-your-eye-outs ... the issues! I have no where to turn... Am I pro-life? Did I support the Gulf-war? Do I favor big business? What about the environment? Welfare? Socialized Medicine? Oh no ... I’m being bombarded... I have to think for myself?!? ... What would Opus do? .... Where is my conservative hand-book??!?!??! Gimme time to think!!!!
I organize the issues. Let’s start with politics. I’m a republican who favors small government which doesn’t waste its tax dollars on communist social programs that destroy incentive and bolster the deficit, an end
to nuclear weapons stockpiling, a high energy tax to punish Cadillac drivers, free trade, environmental clean-up, a final and irreversible end of the welfare program, a cap on social security for those rich old goats who still collect it and make everybody else pay twice as much, world peace and Ross Perot.
Theologically, I’m a Catholic but I read Dostoevsky, Sartre andNietzsche and don’t believe that wise men and shepherds visited Jesus on December 25,0 A.D. Josemari’a Escriva’ de Balaguer would hasten to condemn me as a liberal-minded heretic, but Notre Dame’s very own Richard McBrien would place me with the likes of Pius X.
I dress and act like a conservative. I wear J. Crew, LL Bean and Victoria’s Secret, but resolutely refuse the pleas of my UC Davis friends to pierce my ears, nose and tongue. I tell crude jokes but don’tthink Andrew Dice Clay is God’s gift to comedy. You won’t catch me burning a flag, but I think the old man who sits on US 31 protesting flag burning is a wasted life. I don’t exercise. I don’t eat Yo-cream. And I don’t squeeze the Charmin. So, who knows what I am.
They say I’m too conservative for Berkeley; I wouldn ’t fit in at a dolphin saving Tuna rally. They say I’m too liberal for Notre Dame; you won’t find me slashing my wrists on the doorway to an abortion clinic.
Hah! What do they know? Liberalism is a phase. Conservatism is an identity crisis.
□
A

Looking forward
by Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann
Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann are the 1993-94 student body president and vice president.
Every year, new student leaders are elected, and everyone wonders if they are actually going to do what they promised. Student government does have the potential to affect every aspect of student life. It is totally dependantupon the people thatmake up the team. We are excited this year to haverealistic goals, yet they are ones with the potential to leave a lasting impression upon Notre Dame.
The work on The Guide is already underway . This project will involve a tremendous amount of work and student support, but this project— more than any other project before— will allow students to truly have a voice in improving the quality of education. Teacher evaluations will be distributed in the last two weeks of the semester, and this project will only be a success if the students take time to fill them out. These results will be compiled into an evaluation book made available to students. Please encourage your professors and friends to participate. We will be coming around to your hall councils to answer any questions and generate support.
The Book Fair is another project whose success completely depends upon student participation. Books will be collected during finals week and also in the first days of next school year. Then, they will be organized by college, major and individual course titles and made available for sale to other students. Sell your books to others at reasonable rates and get a discount on those books you buy.
Another issue that drastically demands attention is the lack of 24-hour space here on campus. This problem is at the heart of many other social issues that need to be addressed. To alleviate this problem, we are looking into transforming La Fortune Ballroom into a social spot where people can meet for a bite to eat while enjoying live entertainment. We would like to move Acoustic Cafe upstairs and bring in campus bands and an occasional professional comedian to provide a social alternative here on
campus. We will also work to try to get Allegro open 24-hours as well as any other area deemed feasible.
The Job Bank and Summer Storage are goals with very long-term effects. The Job Bank will give students leads and contacts to aid them in their summer internship search or even their full-time job. Summer Storage will provide students with an affordable alternative to storing their things off campus will alleviating the hassles often associated with it.
Each year, student government composes reports to present to the board of trustess. These reports on very pressing issues facing the university today have been a very effective means for communicating the interests of the student body. We have already decided upon many important issues that need to be brought to the forefront of everyone’s intentions. There are many important issues, such as financial aid, facing every Nobe Dame student today, and we want to address these issues.
The success of student government depends greatly upon the amount of communication between the student body and its leaders. We act as a direct voice of student concerns to the administration; therefore, we will focus on establishing strong lines of communication of these events andthe support of the students. We will be visiting the hall councils on a regular basis, upkeeping the printing of Notre Dame Today, and communicating through regular campus media in an effort to respond quickly and productively to the needs of every student.
We encourage students with concerns to come straight to us. You have elected us, and you have every right to put us to work. If you have a concern, we will do everything we can to act on it We are looking forward to this year with enthusiasm and a great desire to represent you.	□
The. ideas expressed in this column do not necessarilyreflect the views o/Scholastic.
22


1
Final WoRg
Looking back over the past two semesters, it has come time for us to pass the gavel, to take down the nameplates and turn things over to a new administration. It has been a long year, and stepping down is both relieving and difficult. But whatever the emotion, our experiences in student government have been opportunities for personal growth and service to the Notre Dame community. You can judge our success, but in terms of what we hoped to get out of the year, we could be nothing but content with the efforts of out entire administration.
Many, many thanks go out to our entire cabinet, especially Mike Griffin, our chief of staff, who was an essential player in both special events and the day-to-day workings of student government. We cannot mention every name that we should in describing the endless hours of work that have gone into this year: members of hall and class governments, Hall Presidents' Council, Student Senate, Campus Life Council, Club Coordination Council, Student Business Board, SUB, our entire cabinet and Teri, Connor and Russ from the student body treasurer's office. It has truly been our pleasure and honor to work with such a capable and dedicated group of student leaders.
The efforts of members of student government over the past 12 months have made realities of what were once "campaign promises." Our sincere gratitude goes out to all who worked to see things like the Campus Card and Study Days make their way to fruition.
Lastly, our thanks go out to you, the members of the student body, who gave us the chance to serve you as student government officers. We hope we have represented you well. Keep voicing your opinions, keep challenging one another, keep supporting your representatives, and student government will continue the tremendous upward momentum that we inherited from Joseph Blanco and Dave Florenzo. Our best wishes go out to Frank Flynn, Nikki Wellmann and the excellent people they have chosen to fill their cabinet. Our only advice is to continue making students matter because it was this goal that gave true meaning to our year of service under the dome.
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill are the 1992-3 student body president and vice president.
Looking ‘Baclc
by Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill



continued from page 19
Sumner's
Tales
by Monique DiGiorgio
After Sting’s last melancholy and graphic album, Soul Cages, Ten Summoner's Tales comes as quite a relief. Ten Summoner's Tales, an album combining the sounds of Soul Cages and certain jazz elements of Dream of the Blue Turtles, is lighthearted and comical in comparison to Sting’s earlier works. Musically, it is mellow and jazzy. Lyrically, it is humorous, entertaining and positive.
As usual, Sting presents an array of musical instruments that satisfy and awaken the listener. Sounds of the trumpet, harmonica, violin, trombone, saxophone and cello can be heard and are just a few of the surprises that add to Sting’s unique blend of jazz and rock. Although most of the album is mellow in comparison to earlier works of the Police, Ten Summoner’s Tales has its share of upbeat songs including the last selection appropriately named “Epilogue.” Movie goers might be excited to find that “It’s Probably Me” from Lethal Weapon III is included on the album.
The title of the album, Ten Summoner's Tales, comes from Chaucer’s The Canterbury Tales. Summoners were those people who were sent to “summon” convicts and dirty deed doers to their doomsday. They lifTop Ten Lists From WVFI and T:WSND. We Guarantee Pleasure.
.. WSND's picks o’ the week;	7
l-LMedicine —“5ive”M.:<^-
' WVFI’s list o’ goodies.	.	2.TW Fai th Healers — “Don’t Jones Me”
l.fIREHOSE—Mr.MachineryOperator I EP . :	■ /<-7 • f
2.Superchunk — On The Mouth	J J | 3.Moth Macabre — Moth Macabre i:
73.ButtholeSurfers— Indepedent Worm j; 4 Pursuit of Happiness— The Downward iSaibon • • ; :i' ii'-■/i	J . ■ i Road i • .eT- ' J >'7^: •'
^Poster Children — tool of the: Man,': t 5.Dinosaur Jr. — Where You Been fUi •; ij:5;Treepebple — Just Kidding	. 't, . g.Vahd
i^tite—Mule	.	\LikeYou <;/;
- I'7.TheThe—f.' . \	'
yy^ghty Mighty Bosstbnes — Ska-Core' I 8.Thin White.Rope — The One That Got TheDevilAndMore "'-if 7< -'?77- I Away 7--7; ' .-77/ '-7 f 7 f':- f'ifh'. : 9.Nqw Bomb Turks ^'Destroy-Oh-Boyff\9JF£^^
RO.Grenadine-yGoya ‘hfff: :i:-^Star iffifff^^i':-.:-'' fffbyJcfe Cannon f-	'i''i-i I: by John Strieder . if ff, ‘ii/ffi
were feared and hated by others in their society. It might be said that Sting, also known as Gordon Sumner, is trying to blemish his pristine image by equating himself with the summoners of The Canterbury Tales (or maybe he just feels rejected and unloved...)
With Ten Summoner's Tales, Sting diverges from his unique concern for the politcial issues of the day and begins an explorarion of love. Nothing Like The Sun, a previous Sting album, had its fair share of profoundly depressing songs that dealt with the violation of human rights in South America and the fragility of our environment This is impressive and inspiring. But in his new album, Sting chooses the lyrics cleverly in order to convey a new message about love and life. Sting dramaticizes his emotions in one of the last lines in the eleventh taleof TenSummoner’sTales: “At times like this, a lonely man like me needs love.” It is evident that Sting has chosen to focus on less depressing issues on this album.
The first single is a catchy tune. “If I Ever Lose My Faith In You” puts faith in a loved one above relgion, science and nuclear weapons. The next selection, “Love is Stronger Than Justice,’ displays Sting’s ability to humour his audience through the story of seven brothers who are fighting for a little town in Mexico. Their incentive, however, is merely the women they will gain if they win the battle. Due to the lack of women in such a small town, the seventh brother murders his siblings and receives kudos from his mother for being so ingenious. Very interesting.
When listening to Sting’s album, one particular song stands out above the rest: “Shape Of My Heart.” Sting uses the numbers and suits of a gambler’s deck of cards to convey his message: “I know that the spades are the swords of a soldier, I know that the clubs are weapons of war, I know that the diamonds mean money for this art, but that’s not the shape of my heart.” The play on words here is very clever.
Sting released this album with the intention of entertaining his listeners. He accomplishes this task while manging to put another amazing album under his belt. Anyone listening to Ten Summoner's Tales will not be disappointed. Only one question needs to be answered: Why are there eleven songs if there are only ten tales??????	□
continued from page 18
What’s New and What’s Not
What’s New:
Just released albums: Depeche Mode’s Songs of Faith and Devotion, Ric Ocasek’s Negative Theater, Ice-T’s Home Invasion, Led Zeppelin’s Boxed Set?’ Arrested Development’s Unplugged and Willie Nelson’s Across the Borderline. Up and Coming Stuff: Velocity Girl’s Copacetic, Sebadoh’s Bubble & Scrape, Cyndi Lauper’s Hat Full of Stars, Pere Ubu’s Story of My Life, David Bowie’s Black Tie White Noise, Sugar’s Beaster, and albums by Bryan Ferry, Blues Traveler and Sheep on Drugs. Belly, Velocity Girl and School of Fish will be at the Cabaret Metro in Chicago bn April 3. House of Pain, Wool and Rage Against the Machine will also be in Chicago on April 3 at the Vic. Quicksand and Surgery will be at the Cabaret Metro
. on March 26..(tomorrow!) The next night also at the Metro, will be Superchunk. Look for Mudhoney at The Metro on April 17. New movies in the theater include Fire in the Sky, an alieri-abduc-tion story, as well as newly released CB4 and A Far Off Place. New video releases include The Player, Gas Food Lodging, Under Siege, The Amy Fisher Story (ABC version) and Pinocchio.
What’s Not:
Cyndi Lauper, David Bowie, Willie Nelson and Bryan Ferry.
ww CR°ssina
bY DAVE KELLETT
TALES FRoM THE Tcp oF the v^rAE	Mjrk Mawlj
Alex Kotlowitz
Author of
ThereHre jTo Children Here to speak on the issue of "Children and Toverty"
March 29 7:30 PM Library Auditorium
35th Annual Collegiate
lazz festiv
-J	April 2 & 3
Gen. Admiss.		Notre Dame	rn* lime
All sessions	$15	$7	
Friday night	$8	$4	7:30 pm
Sat. afternoon	$5	$2	1:00 pm
Sat. night	$6	$3	7:30 pm
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
Permit No. 10
STUDENT UNIONIOAID