-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME• APRIL 6, 1995 
fot. FED~.t,4 ·~uDEN't ( 
Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on al Notre Dame, subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the \y'eekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part ofall this for the introductory price of$20 a year-­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
-. -------------------------------------­Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­Address: _______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years = $ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE· 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 19 FOUNDED 1867 APRIL 6, 1995 
Cut Backs
4The Republican proposal to cut federal financial aid will affect at least 25 percentofNotre Dame's student body. Here's a look at what could be in store for those students. 


On My Honor 
T.he effectiveness of Notre Dame's 
Honor Code depends upon the students to turn each other in. But how serious is the Code really taken on this campus? 
1 O

· FancyFeet
16Theblue-chiprecnutinplacefornextseason will attempt to ease Irish kicking woes. Here's a closerlookatNotreDame'sfuture kicker, Kevin Kopka. 

FEATURES 

Take Five •Shannon I...ennard................ : .................................................................................................................... 8 Ferguson Explains It All •Kristin M. Alworth ......... , ............................................................................................. 12 Native Spirit •Bridget Bradburn ......................................................................................•....................................... 14 Destination Dynasty · Jeremy Dixon ............. , .......................................................................................................... 18 Something to Savor •Jake Schaller ..........................................................................................................................20 Putting It Together •Aaron J. Nolan ......................................................... ~ ..............................................................22 · 
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor ............................................................. 2 Coming Distractions .................•.... : ....................... : .....24 l..etters.....................•....................................................... 3 On Other Campuses ...................................................25 Campus Watch ..........................•................................. 15 Comics ......................................................................... 26 Splinters From the Press Box ..................................... 17 Week in Distortion ...................................... : ............... 27 Out of Bounds .:....~ ......................................................21 Parting Shot ................................................................. 28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 6, 1995 1 


It was hot, I was sweaty and the last place I wanted to be on such a beautiful spring day wasinthecrowdedlecturehallof102DeBartolo. IracedthroughmyGeneticsfinal,filling in the scantron sheet with my #2 pencil and thinking of a thousand other things besides X and Y chromosomes. I was in my own little world and did not want to be bothered ­especially with the incident that was occurring directly-in front of me. 
In the next row over, four male students were swapping answers and comparing responses. They didn't seem to be trying very hard to conceal their actions either. But instead of speaking up and notifying someone about what was going on, I opted to concentrate on my own paper and ignore the situation completely. All I cared about was finishing my exam and getting out of South Bend. Besides, I was only afreshman, and the last thing I wanted to do was ruffle anyone's feathers. 
I know I wasn't the only one that day who witnessed this blatantly obvious violation of the Honor Code. Sure, my conscience urged me to "do the right thing." But at the time, that conscience only spoke in a whisper. Instead of saying something, I became one ofthe many students who closed their eyes and turned their heads, ignoring the situation and minding my own business. 
How many others among us have witnessed similar scenarios during a test, midterm or final? Did we keep our lips sealed because wejust didn't care? Orwas it the fear of being a tattletale that kept us quiet? On page 10, Campus Life writer Matthew Rose takes a look at how effective the Honor Code really is at Notre Dame, and whether or not the university's students take it seriously. 
This Week's Cover Story 

The price of an education is a costly expense these days. Attending private college in the 1990smeansbig bucks, and many students are simply unable to come up with thefunds by themselves. Federal aid is given tb almost 25%of the Notre Dame student body ea:ch year, and many wouldbe unable to attend this university withoutit On page 4, news writer Melissa Harraka takes a look at the proposed congressional cuts in financial aid and how these cuts will affect Notre Dame students. · · 
A Brief Hiatus 

Due to the Easter holiday, Scholastic Magazine will be taking a brief break next week. The magazine will be back on April 20. 
Theresa M Hennessey 
Managing Editor 

Cover graphic by Patrick E. Skidmore · Table of Contents photos by Stan Evans 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 6, 1995 


In Defense of Athlete Privileges 
A Sarcastic Comment 
by Josh Ozersky 
Dear Editor: 
Although I was flattered and amused by your satire-Iespecially liked the picture of myself as a self-confident piglet, with raffishly askew pointed ears -I have to say that on the whole, I think you could have done a better job. Forone thing, it was inaccurate: as far as that paternity suit is concerned, I never saw thatman in my life! Also, do you really think it probable that I would misspell "chicken," I, who have boasted of my cowardice so many times? 
A little more care might have been taken to parody me. I mean, it's not like you had too hard a target. I have practically handed you your satire ready-made, and you have let me down. It's highly unlikely anybody would catch me using a puerile expression 
. like "bite me," except in the throes of passion (and even then never in all caps). I have to sayI'm disappointed. Here Iam handing your satire to you on a platter, and 
· this is the best you can come up with? Still, I am grateful for the attention. I wish you had been a little sharper, but I'm not one to look a gift horse in the mouth. I'm happy with what comes my way. That is the secret to my success. 
!remain, Your most humble servant and "incessant rambler," 
Josh Ozersky Observer Columnist 

Dear Editor: 
While I felt last week's cover story on the perks of being a student-athlete was very well-written, I was rather upset at both the negative connotation it had towards the Department of Academic Services and the lack of journalistic integrity on the part of Scholastic. 
In the article, an unnamed student trainer was quoted as saying, ''The tutors are very well-infonned. It seems like they get test questions ahead of time." As a tutor for the past three years, I was both insulted and appalled at this statement, as well as Scholastic's inclination to print it without even attempting to contact a tutor for a response. 
As a tutor, I would hope my students perceive me as being well-informed. But after tutoring roughly 25 students over five semesters, I have helped student-athletes study for a total ofmaybe 70 tests. Doesn't it seem like I should know what's going to be on an upcoming test or what areas a professor tends to test heavily or skip all together? In fact, how could I not know after reviewing material for the same tests four or five times a week, five semesters in a row? To suggest that this is a sign of impropriety on anyone's part is nothing short ofridiculous and appears to be a sign of jealousy or just plain ignorance. 
Michael Byrnes, '95 


Dear Editor: 
As a member of women's fencing team, I would like to comment en the cover story fh?t you ran in your last issue. Without living the life of a student-athlete, it would be easy to say that they receive special advantages-perhaps unnecessary special advantages. But imagine spending three hourseveryafternoonMondaythroughFri­day pushing your body to the limit in order to perfect your ability in your sport Imag­ine running and lifting outside of practice in order to give you an edgeoveryourcompe­tition. Then imagine giving up every week­end for months on end traveling across the country to compete against the nation's toughest teams. 
As student-athle~, we don't have the luxury of spending a leisurely afternoon studying in the library or hanging out on the quad. We don't have the luxury of sleeping in until noon on Saturday and Sunday when competitionschedulesrequirea6am.wake­up call. During the season, we spend inost of our waking hours in a gym and on a bus or airplane. Indeed, participating in colle­giate athletics is a job -a job that most athletes enjoy, so we tolerate the inconve­niences of missing classes and spending time with friends during our travel season. 
· Tutoring and earlier DART times allow student-athletes to juggle academics and athletics and be successful in both. Tutor­ing provides extra help to counteract the time missed in class, and earlier DART times allow student-athletes to arrange their classes before practice begins. Many cite the abuses of the student-athlete academic services, but one should remember that no system is perfect and, in my opinion, the service provides a helping hand to athletes who have earned the right to its services. 
Next time you are about to sneer that student-athletes have special advantages, rememberthe blood, sweat and tears thatgo into practice and competition in a sport. If that doesn't move you, talk to my room­mates and ask them ifI receive any special advantages.. 
Mindi Kalogera, '96 



Proposed Congressional spending cuts will result in reduced financial aid for 
Ill• 

Ill• 
Notre Dame students 

byMelissa Harkin 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 6, 1995 
0 n March 29, students from over 100college campuses in 31 states staged coordinated rallies and 
walk-outs. Xavier, GeorgetownandMary­land have all been the sites of student­initiated independent protests in the past month. Studentsparticipatingintheseevents hope that the representatives in Washing­ton will rethink their newest proposal-a bill to eliminate over $20 billion worth of collegiate financial aid.. 
Almost 25 percent of the Notre Dame studentbodyreceives somefonn of federal aid, and if the proposal passes, these stu­dents would imme­diately suffer the types of student aid at the greatest risk of suspension are federal student loans and campus-based programs. 


The Stafford Loan is one such federal student loan. ''The Stafford Loan is the single largest aid program," said Russo. It is a direct-lending program that allows stu­dents to borrow directly from the federal government. Recipients thenreimbursethe loan upon the completion of their educa­tion. "40 percent of undergraduates take out a Stafford loan sometime before they graduate," approximated Russo. 
The most significantchange under delib­
eration is the elimina­
tion of the loan's in­
terest exemption,
consequences. 

How Aid Cuts Will Affect the Stafford Loan 

"Currently, over 2,200 undergradu­
$30,000 
ates receive an aver­age of $3,000 to $4,000annually,"re­
$25,000 portedJoeRusso,di­rector of the Office 
$20,000 of Financial Aid. The c~ngressional 
$15,000 proposals represent "asignificanthitfor 
$10,000 thoserecipients,''ac-• cording to Russo. 
$S,000 Many students at Notre Dame with 
$0federal aidareaware Year 1 Year2 Year3 Year4 Totalof their financial $2,625 $3,500 $5,500 $5,500 Repaymentjeopardy. Junior Kelly Cox, who is Figures based on maximum allowable loan per year at 8% interest 

trying to pay for her 
educati~n with lim-. 

ited help from her parents, is frustrated by . Republican agenda revolves around seal­
the threats to studentaid. ''It's outrageous! Asexpen~veas a college education is now, there is· almost no way. for the .average person to go to a private !!Chool without some financial assistance,". she said. 
Other Notre Daine students seem out.. raged as welt "I think its ridiculous,'' commented sophomore· Jeanne LaFleur. 
. "It's obvious,that many students just can't getaneducationwithoutthatfederalriioney, and they're directly cutting it out of the system. I would rather that taxes stay high . and students s~beabletogo to the college of their choice." 
But not all Notre Dame students feel the sanie way. Jay Town, president of College Republicans for the 1994 -1995 school year, defends the prOJ>Osal. ''The whole ing back government. That means the military. Thatmeanseducation. Thatmeans welfare. Certainly if you touch on educa­ti.on, there will be some type ofbacklash­it's a touchy issue. 

· At the same time," he continued, "if the 
. deficitanddebtscontinuetogetoutofhand, ifwe don't scale back now; it will haunt us later. It's possible that at some point there won't~ money for financial .aid because it's all going to pay inferest." 
The possible elimination of federal stu­dent aid programs, which currently help fund the educationof6.5 milliori American students, is still pending. The proposal is partoftheRepublican Congress' "Contract With America," a series of programs de­vised to balance the federal budget. The 
which could mean anywhere from a 15­50 percentincrease in aloan paymentforstu­dents. Although fed­eral loans will not be completelyabolished, they will become sig­nificantly~oreexpen­sive, and leave bor­rowers more indebted · at the conclusion of their schooling than they have been in the 
past. 
Russo stressed that 
"intheworst-casesce­
nario, theStaffordloan 
would still be there, 
but . students would 
have topay intereston 

it right away." A student borrowing the maximum amount at 8 percent interest for four years would be· faced with a debt increaseofnearly20percent,from$17,125 to $20,532. ­
Coxbelieves that this change might deter students from taking out loans in the first place. ''To ask students to pay interest on loans while they are in school takes away . the reason they are willing to borrow in the first place," she asserted. "Itisjusttoo scary to owe interest while you are a·student and : have no significant source ofincome." · 
In addition, those students who do earn money through on-campus jobs may have to relinquish that source ofincome as well. Campus-based aid programs "require that the university match acertain percentageof the federal contribution," explained Russo. 

''Under the current proposal, federal contributions to campus­based aid would be eliminated." 
Another form ofcampus-based aid comes in the form ofSupple­mental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG), which are cur­rently given nationally to about one million financially needy stu­dents. AtNotreDame,thesegrants "T ,J , k if 
distribute$1.3milliontoover300 .1.. uOn t nOW l 
students. u·' ll rth 
. Work-study grants are also a S rea )' WO . c~~us-based program that may going into the 
bem.ieopardy. Morethan700,000 
Americans received work study workforce with grants in the 1993-94 academic · year. Russo estimated that about a $40,000 debt.'' $1.7 million in work-study grants • • are awarded to approximately -Christina 1,500 Notre Dame students every 
year Morgner 
Nationally,another700,000 stu­dents receive the Perkins loan, a campus-based, low-inte,rest loan. The Perkins loan is Notre Dame's biggest campus-based financial aid program; providing aid to about 1,500 students, according to Russo. 
Obviously, finances are a major concern for many students choosing colleges. One concern about the Republican's proposal is that more students may be deterred from attending some schools based on inability to pay and unavailability of fmancial aid. "Financial aid is such a priority that some top students have started to 'chase dollars.' They are targeting schools where they can get the most financial help, foregoing more prestigious schools despite being academically qualified to attend them," reported the Tampa Tribune. 

Stan Evans 

Lance Hopman, a sopho~ore, receives assistance from an 
employee In the Office of Financial Aid. 
6 


Stan Evans 

Sophomore Bryan Mason works at the dining hall for the work-study part of his financial aid package. Proposed federal aid cuts will eliminate many on­campus work-study jobs. 
SeniorDan Casey sees a similar scenario. "Ifthecuts arepassed, they will . probably . bring down the level of education because . students wouldn't be able to go to the best universities because they couldn't pay for all of it," he said. "I think itwould also push more and more people into ROTC," added senior Eric Zmarzly. 
Russo foresees that in general, "these cutbacks would impact quality and diversity in higher education," as students would have to question more carefully whether they have the financial re­sources to attend some schools; Freshman Christina Morgner is one student who isbeginning to worry about possible repercussions for her own financial aid status. "It's just scary. I have to wonder whether it's really worth it to go to a school like Notre Dame which is so much more expensive than a state school. I don'tknow ifit's really worth going into the work force with a $40,000 debt," Morgner said. 
Students around thecourttry share these same concerns andhave been motivated to voice them. In February, a declaration of objection to the Contract With America was circulated over electronic mail to student conferences by the University Conver­sion Project (UCP) in Bostori; On March 1, a rally on Capitol Hill was organized by a group of Georgetown students as a vehicle for the collective protest of students in Washington, D.C.. 
Many thinkit is time for students to express theirconcerns on this issue. "Students should start: by expressing gratitude for the financial support they have received through current federal pro­grams,'' advised Russo. Then, he continued, "students should express their concerns about possible aid cuts to their congress­man." . . 
Currently/many Notre Dame students are not familiar with the details of the proposed cutbacks on collegiate financial aid. Per­haps when they realize to what extent the cutbacks willaffect them, the will be motivated to action. B then, it ma be too late. 0 

SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
...AND BUDGET 


·.···jSUBWA~. 
-:Tl~e Pbcc~ly.:n.: Fn:sl~ is che.'fastt:. , -. . 
54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 

by Shannon Lennard 

Nationally, many students enter col­lege with the expectation that they will stay for more than the usual 
four years. A U. Magazine poll shows that 64 percentofcollege students do not expect 
I to graduate in four years. 
! : 
Notre Dame seems to be an exception to this trend. Here, 87 percent of students do
ii 
graduate in four years. Notre Dame has never had many fifth-year students. For the past ten years, only about 5.5 percent of each incoming freshman class has stayed for five years. 

Those few students who do stay have a variety of reasons. Students may stay to pick up an extra major after finishing the first one. Other students want to study abroad and do not have time to take all the required courses. Still other students work for a dual degree, which usually takes five years to finish. 
Fifth-year student Tom Eckert said a number of factors played into his decision to extend his time here. "I majored in mechanical engineering for two years. I knew I did not like it,. so I decided to switch· tosomethinglwasmoreinterestedin. Now I am double-majoring in economics and 




Take Five 
As more students around the country are taking longer to graduate, Notre Dame fifth-year students have their own unique experiences 
Spanish. I love it." he explained. "My situation became even more complicated because I wanted to study abroad. I spent last year in Mexico. That meant I had to make up the time I missed here by staying an extra year,'' he continued. 
Tom's situation is unique. Since he switched majors, studied abroad and de­clared two majors, he needed some extra time at Notre Dame to finish his require­ments. Most students who double-major, however, have no problems finishing in four years. "In Arts and Letters, a person can typically double-major without having to stay five years," explained Dian Murray; an assistant dean of the college. 

Aaron Skalicky 
These students decided to stay at Notre Dame for five years : Cristen Reali (left), Tom Eckert (center) and Andrew Pascale (right). 
Students who work towards a double degree, however, often find they cannot complete their studies in four years. In order to recieve a double degree, a student must complete all the requirements of each college. Therefore, an engineering and arts and letters double-degree student, such as junior Cristan Reali, must complete all the required engineering classes, along with the requirements of core and three semes­ters of a foreign language. ".It does usually take five years to complete a double de­gree," said Murray. 


"A double degree program is great for a student interested in balancing both techni­cal work and liberal studies," suggested Murray. "We see a lot of people studying both engineering and liberal arts. Increas­ingly, therearemorecombinationsbetween science and liberal arts and business and liberal arts. "continued Murray. 
Freshman Andy Pascale, who plans to pursue a double degree in electrical engi­neering and history, chose such different majors because "engineering is something for the mind; history is something for the soul." Reali, too, wanted to broaden her 
Aaron Skalicky 

academic horizons. "I like chemical engi~ neering and English because I get a variety of classes. Aside from learning to write better, itis good to see both sides ofarts and letters and engineering," she stated. 
Professors seem supportive of students taking on the challenge of earning adouble degree. Engineering professor William C. Strieder stated that he sometimes teaches five-year students, most of whom are in a double degreeprogram for engineeringand English. "I think that five-year students seem quite strong in engineering. They are as good as regular engineers, if not better," he said Professor Thomas A. Werge, an English professor, agreed. "I was struckby (the students') ability for both fields. They take on a lot of work, but are amazingly conscientious," he commented. 
Fifth-year students have many of the same experiences and concerns as their younger counterparts. Finances are one of the most important concerns for students considering spending an extra year and the extra money. Eckert explained that "it's not easy to spend the extra money that I didn't really have, but it's worth it. Also, 
8 

-
when I applied to Notre Dame, I thought I wanted tobean architect I had already kind of planned on staying for five years." 
Students receiving assistance have even more reason for concern. The Financial Aid Office considers each case individu­ally. Those students who change majors and need to stay longer to finish up their required courses are granted the same fi­nancial consitleration. Federal aid, how­ever, can be trickier. In this case, a student needs to write an appeal. If the student remains eligible for financial aid, Notre Dame will comply. If, however, the appeal is denied, then Notre Dame must again comply,and the student is on his or herown. 
Another problem fifth-year students en­counter is housing. Unfortunately, Notre Dame only guarantees housing for eight semesters, so fifth-year students who would like to live on campus are placed on a waiting list The outcome of this waiting process is different each year. For fifth­year students, the best situation is a small senior and freshman class. 
For Eckert the housing issue worked out well. "I had decided before I went to Mexico to apply for RA. When I returned, I completed the application process and was chosen. I love being back in Stanford and living near several of my friends who are younger than me." 

Fifth-year students do not get special consideration in DART; instead, they still get placed in the same DART lottery as · fourth-year seniors. Therefore, they might have a hard time getting into the classes that they need to get into in order to graduate. Murray stresses, however, that getting into classes is usually not a problem. "With the extra year, double-degree students can usu­ally get into the classes they need quite easily," he said. 
Luckily, the advisors are often willing to help fifth-year students in whatever way they can. Eckert pointed out that his advisors have been very helpful. "My eco­nomics advisor told me that he would do anything to encourage students to study abroad. He's been great about helping me out" 
Brian O'Connor, a sophomore majoring in finance and medieval studies has had few administrative problems so far. "The ad­ministration has helped me get the classes I need and has helped me in going abroad next year," commented O'Connor. 
An important concern for the football­conscious fifth-year student is the issue of getting football tickets. There seems to be some confusion, for there is not a specific section for these students. Neither the Registrar's Office nor the Ticket Office knew where the fifth-year students' seats would be located. It could be with the seniors: or it could be with the graduate students. So, the fifth-year football fan could end up on the fifty-yard line or the ten-yard line. 
A common hope among fifth-year stu­dents is that the work now will pay off in the future. Perhaps this extra effort and the broader education makes the job search somewhat easier. "It will be worth it in the long run," Reali anticipates. Eckert has found that potential employers applaud his varied educational experiences. "They are excited that I can speak another language. They are glad that I have lived abroad," he affinned. "Most of all," he continued, "po­tential employers consider my ability to adapt to be a major strength." 0 
BRUNO'S 
,,af 




Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. 
frpm 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 
4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 
FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 
115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 261 OPrairie Ave. 
,273-3890 ·288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
.We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.· 
SCHOLASTIC -MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 6, 1995 
9 



1444Siiltii•i 

Big Brother is Watching... Oris He? 



by Matthew.Rose 

In George Orwell's classic, 1984, a to­talitarian oligarchy known as "Big Brother" runs the state, examining ev­ery aspect of each citizen's life to ensure that they all abide by the rules of the state. At Notre Drune, the administration calls upon its students to play a similar role in enforcing its Academic Code of Honor. When each student signs the Honor Code, he or she makes a commitment to watch out for and report code violations that they witness among their peers. The inherent difficulty of the Codeis the feasibility of one student turning in another student when a violation occurs. As a result, some students question the effec­tiveness of the policy. "It's unrealistic to call on undergrads to pick out evidences of cheating and report other people," commented junior Jim Juster. "It's not something to ask ofaperson in this stageoflife. You tendto needfriends where you can find them. You don't want to make enemies." . Vice-President and Associate Provost Father Tim Scully, C.S.C., serves as the. chair of the University Academic Code of Honor Committee. He understands the moral quandary a student feels when he or 
Some students question the effectiveness ofan Honor Code that requires students to turn each other in 
she mustdecide to tum, or notto tum, a peer in for a violation. "It's hard to point the finger at someone. Part of what is wonder­ful aboutNotre Dame is part of the problem· here. There are very dense ties and net­works of friendships and solidarities and good feelings that people have of one an­other here," stated Scully. "You [the stu­dent] don't want to disrupt those ties. You don't want to be a snitch or a turncoat" 
In order for the Honor Code to work, students must be aware of its terms. There­fore, a copy of the code is sent to members of each entering class, and all freshman must agree to abide by it before entering the university. First published in 1989andlast revised in 1993, the Code mandates that the undergraduates of the University of Notre· Dame "agree to accept the responsibilities for honorable conduct in all academic ac­tivities, to assist one another in promoting personal integrity and to abide by the prin­ciples and procedures set forth in this Aca­demic Code of Honor." The Honor Code additionally stresses the need for mutual trust among all students and calls on stu­dents to take the code s~riously, "mindful of the values of a true education and the chal­lenge posed by the world." During Fresh­man Orientation each year, all new students are also required to view a skit put on by the students who make up the University Aca­demic Code of Honor Committee. The skit gives a detailed outline of the numerous infractions under the Code. 
Also vital in increasing awareness ofthe Code are theprofessors.. Numerous profes­sors actually read the Code of Honor out 

10 

-
loud or print it on the course syllabus at the contingent upon the student body's reliabil­over a fellow classmate. Thus, the chances beginning of each semester. However, ity to report violations, many students feel of students resorting to cheating increases. there is no universal requirement that pro-the Code is weak. A large number of stu­"There's more cheating going on now than fessors must remind students of the Code. dents institute their own code as a matter of there was 15 to 20 years ago because I think According to Scully, the professors who do convenience because cheating is so preva­the pressure for students to succeed !ffid to 

ing to be treated like an adult" 
The professors also feel the importance of their role in stressing the Code because theyarealsoheldtotheCode'srules. "My colleagues take the Academic Code of Honorveryseriously. Rememberthatthey are doing scholarship too, and that they have the same standards that are applied to [the students]," said Scully, who is also an associate professor of government. "I am judged by the standards of my books, and iflwere to plagiarize in my books, I would bedismissedasateacherattheuniversity," he continued. 
A large number of students feel that the Code is ineffective, however. Many think it is a redundancy of morals already in­stilled, and therefore it becomes unneces­sary to have any rules which govern the academic integrity of the university. 
"It's a matter of personal pride," said freshman Kristen Colasurdo. "You don't goaround cheating on exams. It's not right because it's a moral issue." 
Freshman Rich Haaland said,"! don't think they [the students] care about the lent. Forinstance,foramajorityofstudents in the Colleges of Science and Engineering, "minor" violations -such as copying labs or falsifying data-seem to be the norm. Rarely do the professors find out about the cheating. 

"Inoneclasseveryonecopiedacomputer program line-for-line. Toe professor put all theprogramsoutinfrontoftheclass to have everyone come to look at them," related an anonymous student in the School of Engi­neering. "It was obvious that they had copied the same program because the vari­ables were the same, and the procedure was the same. So they got caught." 
An anonymous Arts and Letters student added., "It'seasytocheatandgetawaywith it. I've gone into tests totally unprepared before and knew that the only way I could get a decent grade was to cheat. I simply put on a hat, pulled the visor down close to my eyes, tilted my head forward, and then cop­ied the answers of the person in front of me without them even knowing it" 
Forsomestudents,apathyordisinterestin theaffairsofothersaccountsfortheineffec­
Honor Code itself. I think that however , liveness of the Code. "I'm not going to 
theyaregoingtoapproachtestsisallgoing to be based on their morals. The Code of Honor is just there. I don't think it's going to stop somebody from cheating. Ifthey're going to cheat, they're going to cheat." 
Since .the effectiveness of the. Code is cheat, and if somebody else wants to it's· their own business," said freshman Dennis Golem. 

In recent years,.with the enormous pres­sure on students to achieve good grades, many students feel the need to get an edge compete in order to get jobs is so intense, especially in the business and pre-profes­sional areas. They know their GPAs are really important," said Greg Zuschlag, as­sistant rector of Grace Hall. 
Despite the apparent ineffectiveness of the Code, many students, faculty members and administrators do feel that the Code is taken seriously by all. Still, the primary responsibility of maintaining the Code in­evitably retmns to ,the students. 
"I don't think codes protect academic integrity at the end; I think people do. Reading an academic code helps as one more input in the overall formation of honest people," commented Scully. "St. Thomas Aquinas, borrowing from Aristotle, used to say that 'habits create dispositions.' If you consistently don't cheat, then over time those kinds ofhabi~ build virtue and you become an honest person." 
Thus the Academic Code of Honor re­mains a vital part of the university's overall pursuit to create morally-upright students modeled within the school's Catholic char-. acter. But whetherornotstudents choose to play the role of Big Brother in order to uphold the Code and the morai character of Notre Dame can only be determined by the students themselves. . . 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• Al'RIL 6, 1995 11 
F!l+!iPIP.11111:11 



Ferguson Explains It All 
A closer look at Notre Dame freshman Jason Zimbler from Nickelodeon's 
Clarissa Explains It All 
by Kristin M. Alworth

, 'I flwereanelement,Iwouldbexe­
non," remarked freshman Jason ZimblerfromNew Jersey. "Ithas a cool name." 
While most college students do not admit to identifying themselves with an element on theperiodic table,Zimblerinitiallyseems like an ordinary Notre Dame student He countsCheersandNYPDBlueastwoofhis favorite television programs, enjoys just about any type ofmusic except alternative, and pasta is his favorite dining hall entree. But Jason Zimbler differs from the average Notre Dame student in one important way: he spent much ofhis childhood acting pro­fessionally, most notably as Ferguson Dar­ling in the Nickelodeon program Clarissa Explains It All. 
Zimblerauditioned for the show the sum­mer before he began high school. Cast for the role of Ferguson, the first episode was filmed during his first week ofhigh school. Then, in September, he learned that Nickel­odeon had picked up the program· for 13 episodes. The show was a big hit on the network, which eventually picked up. 65 episodes ofthe program. "It was a different kind of show," said Zimbler. "A young teenage female was given the starring role, which was innovative. They also geared it well to kids." 
Zimbler describes his character, Ferguson, as a very annoying nerd. "He was really an antagonist to the lead," com­mented Zimbler. "He always succeeded in creating some sort of a diversion for her." ContrastinghimselfwithFerguson,Zimbler noted that they are .both good students. 
"[Ferguson] is more preppy than I am, and he's a constantpest. Well, I'm a pest, but not a constllnt pest." -Jason Zimbler 
"He's more preppy, though, and he's a constant pest Well, I'm a pest, but not a constant pest," he joked. 
Actingon the show did create scheduling problems, however. Zimblerworlced50-60 hours each week with only one day off. His job often conflicted with his schooling. Although he was tutored on the set, Zimbler's school had difficulty coordinat­inghis course work withhistutorsinFlorida, where the show was filmed. "I had been going to a public school," Zimbler recalled. "They basically forced me out" Asolution presented itself, however, when a family friendinvitedhim to attend theschool where sheworkedasvice-principal. Thecatch? It was an all-girls school. ''There were 120 girls and me," said Zimbler. Although it was a good experience, Zimblerremarked, "You kind of miss having guys there to talk to. There's only so much you can say to a girl." In retrospect, however, he said, "I didn't mind it that much." 

Luckily, Zimbler' s work did not create family problems. "My parents guided me in my choices," he said. "I took breaks [from acting]. My mom worked hard to shuttle me to auditions." Zimbler also said that his family made adjustments so his younger sister did not feel left out ''There was always someone there togive her atten­tion when she needed it," said Zimbler. Zimbler's friendships, however, suffered as a result of his busy schedule. "I kept one good friend," he said. "But I was always moving around. I-didn't have time to form friendships." 


12 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • APRIL 6, 1995 

after the first 65 episocles, and the show stopped filming in December 1993. "We were confused. We enjoyed it so much," said Zimbler. He noted that the network prefers toairreruns because they arecheaper than original programs. Nickelodeon still runs old episodes of Clarissa Explains It All .. 
Zimbler began acting when he was only six years old. "My mom took me to work one day, and a former model she worked with said I had a good look for acting and recommendedanagent," explainedZimbler. Aftercontactingtheagent,Zimblerattended a series of auditions. A few days later, he landed a role on the ABC soap opera, The Edge ofNight as the son of the star charac­ter. ''The show was canceled a year after I got on it," remarked Zimbler "But I got my foot in the door and a credit on my resume." 
Following his acting experience on The Edge o/Night,"Zimblerdidsomecommer­cials and performed in TV movies. In The Horrible Secret, an after-school special, Zimblerportrayeda mentally-handicapped boy with a speech impediment The film explored how the best friend of Zimbler's character had been molested. Though only 
seven years old, Zimbler claimed that he 
understood much ofthe material the movie examined. !'My parents helped me out," he said. "Ihad a decent idea ofwhat was going on." 
Zimbler also did work in the theater, performing in a series of off-Broadway plays. When he was 12, he won a role singinginaduoinarevivalofShenandoah. He lived in Toronto for four months while acting in the musical. Shenandoah ulti­matelyopenedonBroadway. "Two months on Broadway is a huge credit," noted Zimbler. "It was an incredible feeling." 

One of the major drawbacks of acting, according to Zimbler, was the loss of much ofhis childhood. "I did most of mygrowing up around adults. Those are the kinds of experiences I can't make up for," he said. However, Zimbler emphatically noted that he "wouldn't have traded this experience for a regular childhood. I feel honored that I've had these opportunities. I was making connections when other people were mak­ing friends." 
Zimbler's life has taken a new course since his enrollmentatNotreI>ame. "I plan to have a normal lifestyle here at ND," said Zimbler. He explains that hechose toattend NotreDamebecause itwas"the best school" that accepted him. He also admires the students at Notre Dame for their willing­ness tolearn andconscientiousness towards their studies. 
Zimbler said he generally fits in well at the university, although he expressed con­cern about being a Jewish student at a predominantlyCatholicuniversity: "Iwould have enjoyed being in an environment with more Jewish students. I thinkNotre Dame 
would be a better environment if it were 
more diversified across the board." 
At Notre Dame, Zimbler enjoys per-" · formingstrictlyasahobby,mainlythrough his involvement in the Glee Club. ''That has been a tremendous experience," he reflected with a smile. "It's a great broth­erhood. We've been on tour, and I love to sing." Indeed, his most memorable expe­rience since arriving on campus was the Glee Club concert at Washington Hall last autumn. "It was like I finally belonged. I had found my own little niche." 
He plans to major in computer sciences, and is considering a theater double major. C'I have been acting for 11 years," ex­plained Zimbler. "It gets in your blood." Zimbler also expressed interest in eventu­ally participating in Notre Dame theater productions. 
Looking toward his future, Zimbler is considering acting as a career. "I have my foot in the door," Zimbler observed. "IfI can get some training, maybe I can look at acting as a career." He expressed hesita­tion about that career path, however, be­cause of its lack of stability. ''Personally, I don't want to wait on tables," he said. 
If he continues with his present path,however, that does not seem likely. 
S C H O L A S T I C ·M A G A Z I N E ¦ A P R I L 6 , 1 9 9 5 



From da,ncing at powwows to Dances With Wolves, Otakuye Conroy shows her 
Native Spirit 


by Bridget Bradburn 
While most eighth graders only read about the clashes between Native Americans and white settlers in their history books, Notre Dame freshman Otakuye Conroy had the unusual opportunity to experience some of these events firsthand. Conroy played the role of Kicking Bird's daughter in the movie Dances With Wolves. When she was 14 years old, Conroy's father saw an advertisementin the newspa­per · soliciting people to audition for the movie. Conroy, her parents and her sister all decided to try out "Itwas totally spur of the moment," said Conroy. "I didn't.know what I was doing." Despite having no acting experience, all four of the Conroys received parts as extras in the movie. Because DancesWith Wolves was filmed in her home state of South Dakota, Conroy was able to live at home during the filming ofthe movie. The hours of work were long and tedious, however. "Our day began at five in the morning, and we never knew when it would end," said Conroy. "Itcould be 3:30 in the afternoon, oritcould be 11:00 at night It was up to the directors." After riding for an hour on a bus from her home­town ofRapid City to the main location of filming, Conroy and the other actors were fed breakfast Afterwards, they spent sev­eral hours having their hair, makeup and costumes perfected. 'Then we would just sit around until they called us," said Conroy. Not only was Dances With Wolves Conroy's acting debut, it was also Kevin Costner's directorial debut "Because it was his first time directing," said Conroy. "He wanted to shoot every scene ten times. It was really stressful to have to do the scenes over and over." 
Conroy was tutoredon the set to compen­sate for the two months of school that she missed. "My school was really coopera­tive," said Conroy. "But my tutor was not very helpful." Despite her demanding schedule and missed days ofschool,Conroysaid thatthe best part of the experience was "meeting all the famous people, such as Kevin Costner and Mary McDonnel." 
Conroy was born on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Da­kota,andherfamilymovedtoRapid City about 15 years ago. Although she had no previous acting experi­ence when she auditioned for Dances With Wolves, Conroy was no stranger to the world of perfor­mance. A member of the Od1ala Lakota Sioux Indian tribe, Conroy has been aFancy Shawl Dancer for the past 15 years. "It's very rigor­ous dancing," said Con,roy. "Most of my family still lives on the Pine Ridge Reservation, so we return often. I dance at the powwows." 
Conroy's talents as a dancer led her to receive the honor of being named Miss Black Hills Nation II for the past three years. 'This is a pageant based on dancing ability and on how well you present yourself and answer questions. It's not abeauty contest," Conroy stressed. As Miss BlackHills Nation, Conroy dances at powwows across the nation. . 
SinceherdebutinDances With Wolves, Conroy has also appeared in the television movie Miracle in the Wilderness. In this movie, she played the role of the Virgin Mary,whoappearsinastorytoldbyNative Americans to the settlers that they have captured. "It was a speaking part, but my lines got cut," said Conroy with a chuckle. AtNotre Dame, Conroy has auditioned for several roles in various drama presenta­tions. However, she has not yet received a role, and finds the drama program here to be very competitive. While she isat school, Conroy misses dancing at powwows and visiting Indian Reservations, but she has become involved in Notre Dame's Native American Club, which hosts various Na­tive American activities, including the re­cent "Plains, Pueblos and Indians" presentation. 


Conroy's first name, Otakuye, is the shortened version of her Indian name, TitakuyeOtaWin. This name was given to her by the elders of her tribe, and it means 
"many relatives' woman." Conroy, who has long dark hair, large bright eyes, and a ready smile, exudes modesty. "Dances With Wolves would be my favorite movie­ifl wasn't in it," said Conroy. "I don't like watching myself." . 
14 

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ii A P R I L 6 , 1 9 9 5_ 

"I see you looldn' at me sayin', 'How can you be so sldnny and live so phat?' You know why? 'Cause I'm the Gipper." 
MEXIMELT A.LA RODENT. YUM YUM 
Here's some not-so-suprising news about the culinary wasteland that is North Dining Hall. Appar­
ently,afurrylittlerodentwasluckyenough. to escape the chopping block and wander into the Fiesta Grande section. The Gipp witnessed this spectacle firsthand andwas 

surprised not by the fact that th.ere was a mouse on _the loose, but the by fact that the • And never fear,. South Dining Hall, the mouse was so small. The Gipp was under• · Gipper hasn't forgotten about you, Some the impression that NDH used much big~. ·aluminumfanatichasconfessedtotheGipp ger mice. ·Later on, it was revealed:to the . that he has ·single-handedly . stolen 1000 Gipper that two female students decided to spoons from you guys over thepastsemes­take it upon themselves to bring the mouse . ter. This man needs a hobby. But this and back to their dorm with plans to nurse it othersucheventsshowstheGipperthatthe back to health and theri let it loose back in · revolution has begun. Itis orily a matter of NDH. The Gipper hopes the little critter time before a Yo,-Cream machine shows has a speedy recovery -he hasn't had up somewhere in Walsh Hall. Eldorado Casserole in a long time. 
THIS CAR SMELLS I FEEL SO VIOLATED JUST LIKE LOU 
The Gipp must give kudos to the ever­Perks? What perks?· Yes, much is said so-pleasant NOH workers for their efforts about perks given to football players, but· in preventing you from taking more than recently sources have informed the Gipp . one piece of fruit (the snipers on the roof that the football coaches also enjoy an are a nice touch). However, their security added bonus here and there. That would measures have a few leaks. explain why all the football coaches ~ 
Recently, some unnamed student was driving around in brand new Gurley-Leep able. to walk away with one of the ID­Buicksand minivans. Holtz's even has the checkingmachines. Now that's what I call stickerstillin the window. Either someone having brass kahones. He was probably atGurley-Leep isafanaticNotreDamefan able to do so while the dining hall staff or I smell football tickets. members were. busy wrestling someone into submission for having one too many I'LL GET YOU MY PRETTY"· kiwis. Who would have guessed those It would appear that the new staff of nimble little minxes knew how to execute Scholastic has already stepped on a few a perfect Camel Clutch? But I digress. toes after its last issue. The Head Athletic Trainer was a little miffed by the article on . athletic privileges last week. He was espe­cially bothered by the anonymity of our sources~ 
He actually tracked down the writer and calledherlastweekendathome. Ithas been rumored that she has also caught a glimpse of men with greased back hair, sunglasses and three-piece suits following her around. The Gipp has even noticed the blaring red dot of a laser-sight bouncing around the Scholastic office from time to time. 
For an amusing little extra, the Head Athletic Trainer even asked the Scholastic staff if he would get different results if he had Fr. Beauchamp ask for the anonymous student's name. Evidently, the Head Atli­letic Trainer hasn't been reading the Gipper as of late. The Gipp just thinks he's bitter because he didn't get a Buick. 
Adieu, good Gipp fans. Keep your tips coming. Theyaregreatlyappreciated. Keep them coming at 631-7569 or gipper.l@nd.edu. And for all those who contacted us, either by phone or by mail, with their bitter, inconsequential dribble, I quote the immortal Bill the Cat when I say, "Aacck Thhhppptt!" 
S C H O L A S T I C M A GAZ I N E ¦ A P R I L 6 , 1 9 9 5 

With the imminent arrival of "Thundeifoot" Kevin Kopka, Notre Dame football already has 
A Leg Up 


. 
: 

by Shannan Ball 

Beforeanational television audience of millions, coach Lou Holtz ech­oed the sentiments of all Notre 
Dame fans when he said, "We really need a kicker." It looks like the Irish got one. 
Kevin Kopka, a 5'7" senior out of Holly­wood Hills High School in Florida, was consid(.'J"ed the nation's best high school kicker entering this year. However, his statistics for the year may seem less than worthy of an All-Americl!Il, Kopka went one for nine on his field goal attempts. The telling footnote, though, is that seven of the nine were blocked. Kopka has not been discouraged by last year's debacle, and he looksforwardtohavingonlytoworryabout the kick, and not the blocking or the hold. 
"I went one for nine but I still made All­American. I'm excitedabouthavingagreat line, holder and snapper at Notre Dame," said Kopka. 
Kopka has taken on an intense six-days­a-weekpractice schedule in preparation for his college debut, and feels he is kicking betterthan ever. "I'm in thebest shape I've been in and am ready to go," he said. 
The blue-chip recruit enters a kicking game in shambles. The problems started twoyearsago,attheendofthe 1992season. 
I 
Craig Hentrich, a four-year starter at kicker I and punter graduated, leaving both posi­
I 
' tions open. Replacing such a solid player 
I. 
i was a crucial recruiting task. Notre Dame thought it had another star kicker on the way, but at the last minute, recruit Scott Bentley decided to go to Florida State. The Irish managed to get through 1993 with former soccer player Kevin Pedergast as their kicker, but again failed in the off­season to land a recruit The result was a disastrous 1994for the kicking game. Three different walk-ons could not get the job done. With Kopka, the Irish hope their troubles are over. 
"I see this year's [1994] difficultiesas my opportunity. This is the greatest possible situation a kicker could hope for," com­mented Kopka. "But I have all the respect intheworldforthisyear'skickers.Walking on, they did the best they could with the situation." 

Stan Evans 
Lou Holtz didn't have to travel to Siberia to get a kicker, only to Florida. Kevin Kopka, a blue-chip recruit, will attempt to ease Irish kicking woes next season. 
Kopka earned the nickname of ''Thunderfoot" after kicking a 68-yard field goal at the Florida State kicking camp. He also finished in first place with a 65-yard field goal at camp in Chicago. In game conditions, his longest field goal was 52 yards. 
As with all collegefreshmen, Kopka will have to adjust to life at Notre Dame, espe­cially the weather. At home in the Florida sun among the palm trees, Kopka has never even seen snow. And as all Irish players know, the weather is much different in South Bend. 

Kopka also has had to get used to. a new favorite team. He was a life-long Univer­sity of Miami fan until he chose Notre Dame over Miami and Florida State. "I hated Notre Dame up until this year. Then I decided to go there, and right after I made my decision I went to a Miami kicking camp wearing all Notre Dame stuff. They threw stuff at me, but I didn't care. 
"I knew I wanted to go to Notre Dame when I visited the campus," Kopka contin­ued. 'Theatmospherewasincredible. The people were so nice and friendly. Being from southemFlorida,youcan'twalkdown the street and say 'hi' or you're afraid someone will shoot you." 
This was a dramatic contrast to his expe­rience at the University of Miami. "At Miami, I was almost mugged," he said. At NotreDame,heplanstomajorinsociology, and if he does not kick for the pros after graduating, heplans to go to law school. "I know I will get a great education atNotre Dame, and that's really important to me." 
After last season, the future kicker will certainly be under pressure, with high ex­pectations placed upon him by many, in­cluding Holtz. "I thought he was as goodas I have seen the last couple of years," com­mented Holtz. "I expect Kevin Kopkato be our placekicker next season based on leg strength." 
Joining Kopka in the nation's best re­cruitingclasswillbe Hunter Smithaspunter. 
Holtz expressed his faith in the future kickers, saying, "We signed [Kopka and Smith] because we think they have better potential than whatwehaveoricarnpus; It's that simple. If we did not think they were better, wewouldnothavesignedthem." D 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 6, 1995 
-\ 
--':--------------------------­
SPLINTERSFROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
March 30 to April 4 
edited by Shannan Ball 
Sluggers Sweep Butler: 
After defeating Cincinnati and sweeping afour-game series against Butler, theNotre Dame baseball team raised its record to 15­10. 
The Irish dominated the Bulldogs by a combined score of 46-16 and in the final game on April 2, every member of the starting line-up scored, with Craig DeSensi 


crossing home plate four times. 
Other highlights of the series were two­
run home runs by Ryan Topham, Justin 
Scholl and Bret Poppleton. 

l 
The pitching staff also had a strong week with freshman Dan Stavisky turning in his second win of the season and Craig Allen throwing a four hitter to wrap up the series. 
In the coming week, Notre Dame faces seven games in six days, including a four­

I gameMCC series withWisconsin-Milwau­kee. Theyalso hopeto avenge theirlosses to Bowling· Green and Indiana State with rematches against both teams. 
Softball Undefeated in MCC: 
After splitting adoubleheader with Bowl­ing Green,'the Irish swept both Wright State and Butler last week to post a 4-0 record in the MCC. The team's record stands at 20-8. 

The Irish have been led by the outstand­ing pitching ofTerri Kobata, Kelly Nichols and Joy Battersby. Their opponents are batting only .186. On offense, Notre Dame had 48 hits and scored 36 runs in its four conference games. 
Afterplaying24oftheirfirst28games on the road, the Irish willplay 16 of their final 26 games at home, including their games against Wisconsin-Green Bay and Loyola 
in the coming week. 
Track Suffers Tough Weekend: 
At the Indiana Intercol­legiatetrackmeet, theNotre Dame women placed fifth and the men took sixth 
. place. For the Irish, Jeff Mackey and Shane Dubois took first and second re­spectively in the 10,000­meter run, and Emily Husted and Monica Cox were top finishers for the women. At home, the men lost to Westem Michigan 111-92. 
Lacrosse defeats Butler: 

NotreDamedefeatedButler7-4lastSat­urday and upped its record to 4-3. Randy Colley and Tim Kearney each had two goals, and keeper Alex Cade made an im­pressive 12savesas wellashelpingthelrish clear their zone on 13 of 16 attempts. 
Predictions: Mland the Play-offs 

Schaller's Schot: Still adjusting to His Aimess, the Bulls look unsure of themselves as they near the finish line: They do finish above the Cavs, however, and secure the fifth spot in theplay-offs. MJreturns tothe play-offs with a flourish, and averages 30ppgin theBulls first-round triumph over the Hornets. Despite a brilliant perfonnance against the Magic in the second round, the Bulls fall in seven. The Spurs beat the Magic in six for the title. Ball'sBoast:Jordan's55pointsagainsttheNickserasedanydoubtsabouthisabilitiesand made it clear that he alone could carry the Bulls. Pippin, Kukoc and Annstrong adjust to Jordan's return and their combined effort takes the Bulls all the way to the finals. San Antonio makes its way into the finals without too much difficulty. Chicago's defense fails to shut down the Spurs, and they take the title in six.I ­
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 6, 1995 

Destination • • • 

• 
' 


by Jeremy Dixon 

It looked like deja vu _last week at St Mary's Angela Athletic Facility as the Notre Dame fencing team attempted to repeat as National Champions. Just like last year, the Irish were down to Penn State going into the final round of competition. Could they come back again in dramatic fashion? Unfortunately, they could not, falling short of the gold. They did return to Notre Dame with third place in the nation, however, no small feat in itself. Last year, the Irish fencers brought home the national championship, the fourth one under the tutelage ofcoaching legend Mike DeCicco, who has been at the helm since 1962. The women's foil squad, coached by Yves Auriol, started the Irish on the right track by posting a third-place finish. In championship competition, the men's and women's team points are added together, resulting in one champion for both sexes. Attemptingtobuildonthestrongwomen's finish, the men' sfoilteam overtook StJohn's last year to finish in first place with the help of a fifth-place finish by Jeremy Siek. The foil team's win left the team only 25 points behind tournamentleadingPennState. How­ever, the men's sabre team finished in fourth place. This finish, coupled withPennState's second-place showing left the Irish in a 275­point hole going into the last day. 
This was the day last year Notre Dame would show its true mettle. With Penn State'sepeeteamfailingtoreachthemedal· round, the Irish epeeists had an opening. To win the national championship, they had to place third. Seniors Grzegorz Wozniak and Rian Girard, along with jun-· ior Rakesh Patel posted a come-from-be­hind victory over Air Force to put them in the semifinals. It was there that the Irish blewpasttop-seededWayneStatetoclinch the national title. 
There are three weapons used in fenc­ing: foil, epee and sabre. The foil is a light flexible weapon used to score touches by thrusting. The epeeis similar to thefoil, but has a larger hand guard, and is heavier and more rigid. The third weapon, the sabre, has alargehandguard thatcurves under the hand. Unlike the foil and epee, points may be scored by thrusting or slashing with the sabre. In competition, the first person to score five points wins the match. 
After last year's season, the NCAA changed theformat of the national champi­onships, putting more stress on individual perfonnance than team performance. In past years, two teams would fence against one another, having three individual matches going simultaneously. The first team with five victories won the match and moved on to the next round. 
However, in the new format, each fencer duals against every other fencer in his weapon category. The person with themost victories is the champion, and is awarded a certain number of points. These points are added together to calculate the team score. "None of us favor the format that they used [this year]," said DeCicco. "You don't have free throw shooters deciding the na­tional championship [in basketball]; you have team against team." 

With the new format, the Irish were not able to count on team performance as they did last season. However, there were a number of outstanding individual perfor­mances. Junior MariaPanyi, the women's foil captain, finished in second place in women's foil behind Penn State's Olga Kalinovaskaya. She was also named Out­standing Fencer in Women 'sFoil, an honor voted on by the fencers themselves. "It was abig surprise," said Panyi. "The award usually goes to the winner." 
Junior Claudette de Bruin, the epee cap­tain, finished in third place. What is so remarkable about this finish is that Bruin was a foilist last season, only switching to epee this year. "It is very difficult to fence for two days, but she did an incredible job, especially since she switched this year," Panyi remarked. Another strong perfor­mance was turned inby sophomore Colleen Smerek, who went out for fencing this year after taking it for Physical Education .her freshmen year. _She finished 28th in the NCAA's. "Colleen has only been fencing 
18 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 6, 1995 
-
for six months, and for her to qualify -for· the tournamerit .is really 

good," said de Bruin. On the men's side, many performed ,well : I at the national champi­onships. Theepeeteam was led all season by two-time All-Ameri­can Rakesh Patel, the senior captain. Under his guidance, freshmen CarlJackson and Brian Stone stepped up to the challenge of college fencing. Jackson even edged outhis teacher in the tournament, plac­ing sixth, two above Patel. "Carl Jackson has the most positive attitude," said Senior Chris Hajnik, captain 

ofthesabresquad. "He will keep you focused on what needs to be 
Stan Evans 

Seniors Monica Wagner and Liz Caruso warm-up before a tournament. 
done." Senior foilist Stan Brunner agreed, the Irish fencers and coaches. Sophomore and added that "Brian Stone made an in­Bill Lester had an incredible tournament, credible impact this year." taking home the silver medal. "Bill got The sabre team also brought surprises to some monkeys offhis back during the tour-
A Notre Dame opponent prepares to lunge in a recent match. Stan Evans 

nament. He never performed well against top fencers during the season, but beat many of them in the tournament." 
Thefoil team didnotperform aswellas they wouldhaveliked. ''It was a frustrating season," saidcaptainStanBrunner. "We could have dorte itall yearlong, but we didn't." Senior Conor Power, who finished 21st, also acknowledged that "we didn't perform as well as we wanted to." Sophomore Jeremy Siek was the highest finisher, gar­nering his second All-Ameri­can award with a twelfth place finish. DeCicco, however, was quick to jump to the team's defense. "As a team, they did well,"hesaid. ''Thefoil was the toughestfieldofthefiveevents." 
One reason for -the team's success allseasonwasthelead­ership of the coaches and cap­tains. ''They [the captains] are coaches who don't get paid," remarked DeCicco. ''These are the people that make · the program go." 

New faces are always important to a successful program. ·However, there are only three scholarships for the team, onefor men and two for women. Thus, many fencers come to Notre Dame with the same financial aid as the general student popula­tion. Among these fencers, there are many who never see tournament play who work with the team daily. "They're great," Brunner said. ''They knew they wouldn't travel, but they still came out day after day, and pushed to make us better." 
Despitelosing some of their captains and essential senior leaders, the Irish will bring awealth oftalentandexperienceto the table in 1996, with Jackson, Lester, Siek and de Bruin all returning with championship ex­perience. In addition to these fencers, the Irish will again couple two successful coaches. DeCicco boasts a .920 career winning percentage, while Auriol has had two straight undefeated regular seasons. The coaches and their returning talent will undoubtedly return th~ Irish to the pinnacle of college fencing, and keep them there for a long time. 0 
19 
, I 
: I 
.: i 





Basketball fans across the nation take pause and reflect. This year's NCAA tournament has been 
Something to Savor 

by Jake Schaller 
In Like Lions, Out Like Lambs: After 
Michigan burst onto the college basketball 
scene with its Fab Five going to the finals in 

its first year, theFabFiveeraended unchar-· 
acteristically quietly. Ray Jackson and 
Jimmy King, the final two (and least publi­
cized) members of the five lost to Western 
Kentucky in the first round. 
Thanks for Coming Out: Mount St . Mary's coach Jim Phelan finally got to the tournament Though he looked good with · his bow tie, 40 minutes with Kentucky was 
all his team could handle. · 
Shades of Ainge: Tyus Edny's 4.8­
second sprint through the Missouri Tigers, 
ending with a lay-in, gave the Bruins a 75­
74 second-roundwin. Itpainfullyreminded 

NotreDamefansofwhenDanny Aingedid · 
the same thing to the Irish in '81. It also 
provoked a question: Couldn't somebody 
have stepped in front of this guy? 
Shades of Charles: With time running 
outagainst Weber State, Georgetown's Don 
Reid caught an Allen Iverson air ball and 
tossed in a miracle as time expired, like 
Lorenzo Charles did to Houston in '83. All 
that was missing was Jim Valvano running 
around looking for someone to hug. 
Bombs Away: Three-pointers always 
have an effect on the tournament, and we 
saw some players who could drill them. 
Randolph · Childress, Scotty Thurman, 
Donald Williams and even 6'9" big boy 
DwightStewartwereableto make this shot 
My personal favorite? Curtis Staples ­
this short and scrappy shooting guard had a 
manonhimatalltimesatthearc,buthestill 
managed to get open and letloose with a 
trey. 
Wish You Were Here: Duke is to 
college basketball as Notre Dame is to 
collegefootball: You either love' em oryou 
hate 'em. It was a shame not to have them. 
Webberized: After Lucious Jackson's unbelievable effort to steal an Arkansas inbounds pass, Jackson and teammate Lawrence Moten signaled for a time-out when they had none left. The technical foul salvaged defeat from thejaws of victory for the Orangemen. 
Bleep: BobbyKnightonce more showed us why he's the coach we love to hate, with his expletive-filled tyrade following Indiana's first-round loss to Missouri. 
Some Scholastic Magazine awards: 
The All-Name Team: Lucious Jackson, ExreeHipp, Mingo Johnson, CameronDollar, Serge Zwikker. Sixth man: Hurl Beechum 
The All-Hair Team: Devin Davis (you can'tcompetewithdreadlocks),MikeFrensley (donned a pony tail for St. Peter's), Dante. Calabria(pretty smooth), Rasheed Wallace (I didn'tsay"good-hair'),OldDominion'swhole team (before the Colonial Athletic Associa­tion tournament, every player on the team · shaved his head.) 
Best Two-on-Two. Match-up: Randy RutherfordandBryant''BigCountry"Reeves of Oklahoma State vs. Randolph Childress and Tim Duncan ofWake Forest. 
MostStood-UpfortheBigDanceAward: Georgia Tech. Bobby Cremins, Travis Best and Co. shouldhave been the fifth ACC team in the townament. 
Most in Need of a Big Guy Award: St. Louis. SLUbeatTempleandpushedWaketo the limit with a line-up featuring a 6'5" big man. What if ... 
Best Team Name: Western Kentucky: The Hill-Toppers . HustleAward: JerodHasse,Kansas. This guydoveon thefloorforlooseballs,rebounds, steals and anything else that came his way. JeckylandHydeA ward: Villanova After manhandling Connecticut in the Big East Tournament Final, the Wildcats looked like. kittens in their first round-flop against Old Dominion. 


Farewell,andThanksfortheMemories: 

It didn't seem like a fair ending for Michigan State Coach Jud Heathcote. The 24-year coach and his Spartans lost to Weber State, mundane. Thankfully,guardShawnRespert still has the pros to show off his shooting wizardry. 
The Best is Yetto Come: The tournament gave us a glimpse of some great younger players who we'll be able to enjoy (we hope) for two or three more years. Georgetown's lightningquickAllenIverson: Phenomenalin 
. his first three tournament games. The ACC center trio of Smith, Wallace and Duncan: . · Any ofthem could be lottery picks this year. Kansas' Jaque Vaughn: Already has the ·· maturity of a senior. Toby Bailey: Great athleticism, great "ups." Jerry Stackhouse: . Remindsmemoreofnumber23,er45,every­day. . 

20 





M1!111Fll-11~m•1111 
The Communication and Theatre Department wraps up its 1994 -1995 season with, aptly enough, a play about putting on a play. At last week's rehearsal, everyone was putting finishing touches on their season with Our Country's Good. 
Putting it Together 

by Aaron J. Nolan 
"This play is about how the theatre 
TIBad News Bears, Revenge ofthe Nerds and the entire changes the characters and how it olice Academy series. Though not quite as culturally significant, these movies shareatheme with OurCountry's pulls them together under different Good, the Communication and Theatre Department's lastproduc­
circumstances."
tion of the 1994-95 season-in all of them, group of misfits is 
broughtunderacapableleader together to acheivesomeseemingly . -Regi,nald Bain 
insurniountablegoal. TheproductionofTimberlakeWertenbaker's 
play shows April 5-9 at Washington Hall. andissetineighteenth-century Australia. Itisatruestoryaboutthe TheplayisbasedonThomasKennealy'snovelTheP/aymaker lives of a group ofBritish convicts sentto apenalcolonyin Sydney. While not meant to be quite as inspirational as Stand andDeliver,f OurCountry'sGood definitely evokes sympathy forits characters. ~ The inhabitants of the colony, all coming from different back­~ grounds, struggle with theirpasts and with each otherinorderto put on aplay. As director Dr. Reginald Bain notes, ''This play is about how the theatre changes the characters and how it pulls them together under their difficult circumstances." All ofthe cl;iaracters have their own individual problems as seen in various interesting subplots. In one, a young woman, Liz Morden (played by Melissa Dunne) struggles to fight an unjust accusation. In another, a couple battles with their feelings for one another. Another character, Ketch Freeman (Chuck Walczak), moonlights as the colony's hangman and feels alienated from the rest of the groupbecauseofhis unqesirableposition. Throughitall, the play' s director, Lt Ralph Clark (Stephen Susco), fights to keep his cast together and the production going. One unique aspect ofthe show is its play-within-a-play con­cept There are some scenes which .the characters rehearse that 
(Top right and above) The cast of Our Country's Good takes direction from director Reginald Bain. 

22 


"What we're trying to do is to represent the theatre process to show the theatre and how it affects people."· 
-Regi,naldBain 

seem as if the cast were actually rehearsing itself. This idea is nothing new. Variations of it can be found in plays ranging from Hamlet to Phantom ofthe Opera. Though it is not a novel idea, using the production of a play as part of the plot does grab the audience's attention as they are brought into the theatre process with the actors. "What we're trying to do is to represent the theatre process to show the theatre and how it affects people," Bain explains. "What we want people to do is to reach into the process with us -to experience the event as the characters experience the event". 
The cast of Our Country's Good seemed very well-prepared, even a week before the performance when it was reviewed. The actors were, for the most part, in tune with their characters, including MaryBrenham in her portrayal of the timid leading-lady Elizabeth Heard, Kristi Zloch and Michael Kersey as the self-punishing couple of Duckling Smith and Harry Brewer, and in particular, Josef Evans' humorous portrayal of the over-acting RobertSideway. Bainhasdoneagreatjobofwhippingthecastinto tip-top condition fo the short month that he has had to work with them. 
The original play, put on by the actors of the Royal Court, involved 12 actors playing 22 separate parts. Thus, a certain amount of role-doubling occurred. It worked well then, so Bain decided to use role~doubling in Notre Dame's production as well. For example, some female cast members play male army officers in addition to theirmain roles. This technique requires the audience to pay close attention, and in turn makes the play more interesting and enjoyable. 
"What we want people to do is to reach into the creanve process with us -to experience the event as the characters experience the event.'' 
-Regi,nald Bain 
rn 

g If you go to this play expecting an elaborate set and beautiful 

!m costumes, you may be disappointed. These designs are simple, 
"' representing the oppressed conditions in which the characters live. The set is nothing more than a ramp, a tower of scaffolding and some very simple furniture, while the costumes are essentially dowdy rag-like garments. None of this is very appealing to the eye, but more importantly, it captures the true mood of the characters. The play calls upon the audience's imagination to visualize the drab conditions of a colony of convicts as the director seeks to create the image ofan oppressed people. 
Overall, the play was certainly a great testament to the struggle of man to find his niche in society. The actors will surely please the audience with just the right blend of comedy and drama. All theatrical talk aside, if a night of cultured, theatrical entertain­ment is what you crave, then Our Country's Good will surely
Director Bain (top right) contemplates the script and makes his 
deliver. .
suggestions to the actors during rehearsal. 






C-oming 
D1stract1ons 
From April 6 -April 13 
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Baseball: ND vs. Wisc-Milwaukee, Friday at 5:00, Saturday double-header at noon, Sunday at noon, Eck Stadium. ND vs. Illinois, Tuesday, 5:00, Eck Stadium. • · 
· Tennis: ND Women vs. Drake, Sun., 2:00, Eck Pavilion. Lacrosse: ND vs. Harvard, Sat., 2:00, Krause Stadium. Softball: ND vs. Wisc-Green. Bay, Saturday double-header 
· at 1:oo, Ivy Field. ND vs. Loyola, Sunday double~header at 1:00, Ivy Field. 
-Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars: "Remaining Pro-Life in the Political Arena"byformerP!3nnsylvaniaGovernorRobert P. Casey, Thurs., 8:00, 101 DeBartolo. 
"Issue of Diversity and How Community Leaders in Atlanta Showcased that City's Diverse Culture To Strengthen Their Successful Bid to Host the 1996 Olympic Games,"· by Andrew Young, Thurs. 8:00; Stepan Center, Admis­sion is free. 
Maya Angelou, Angela Athletic Facility, SMC, Ticket info at 284-4626. Entertainment: MangaAnimation Japanese Cartoons, Thurs., 
8:00 and 1o:oo, Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
"Our Country's Good," directed by Reginald Bain, Wed.­Sat., 8:00, and Sun., 2:30. Reserved Seating is $7, but · student discounts are available for Wed., Thurs. and Sun. 
Film, "Only You," Carroll Auditorium, SMC. Thurs.-Fri., 7:00 & 9:30. . Film, "Forrest Gump," Cushing Auditorium, $2, Fri.-Sat., 8:30 & 10:00. . . . . "37th Annual Collegiate J.azz Festival," Stepan Center, Fri.­Sat., 7:30. 

On the Silver Screen 
Apr/17-,Aprll 14 
University Park West: 277~7336. ''The Goofy Movie," G, 1:45, 3:45, 5:40, 7:30, 9:20. "Tommy Boy," PG-13, 2:00, 4:45, 7:00, 9:10. "Candyman 2," R, 5:00, 9:40. "Losing Isaiah," R, 2:15, 7:15 
.University Park East: 277-7336. "Oubreak," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:50. "Muriel's Wedding," R, 2:40, 5:10, 7:25, 9:45. "Bad Boys (Screen .#1 )," R, 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00. "Bad Boys (Screen #2)," R, 2:15, 4:40, 7:10, 9:40. "Tank Girl," R, 7:30, 10:00. 
. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:00, 5:15, 8:45. "Man of the House," PG, 2:35, 4:50. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. . "Legends of the Fall," R, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45. 1:15 weekdays. "Hoop Dreams," PG-13, 4:30, 8:00, 1:00 weekdays. "Last Seduction," 4:15, 7:30, 10:00, 1 :30 weekdays. 
Scottsdale: 259-9096 · "Bad Boys," R, 9:00, 1:30, 4:30, 7:15, 9:30. "Goofy Movie," G, 10:00, 12:15, 2:15, 4:15, 6:30, 8:30. "Major Payne," PG-13, 9:00, 11:30, 2:00, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15. ''Tommy Boy," PG-13, 9:30,..12:00, 2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45. "Man of the House," PG, 9:30, 11 :45, 2:30, 5:15, 7:45. "Outbreak," R, 1O:OO; 1:15, 4:00, 7:00,10:00.· · "Candyman 2," R, 10:00, 2:45, 5:15, 7:45, 10:00. 
Cinema at the Snite: 631-7361 
"The Last Seduction," Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:45. "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" Mon., 7:00.. ''Tangos: The Exile of Gardel," Mon., 9:00. "Videogram of a Revolution," Tues., 7:00. ''The Crying Game," (in cinemascope), Tues., 9:00. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 6, 1995 


ICI''S YL P.9/9lCI''Y~YLI'IJ! 
.Wait'll I Take Your Hanes From You 
A fonner student of Cedarville College in Ohio has pleaded guilty to a misde­meanor theft charge for stealing ladies un­derpants out of a donnitory's coin-oper­ated laundry machine. 
When police searched Daniel Richard Meeder's apartment, they found 257 pairs of underwear, 3 bras and 3 slips. Was this man a slave to Snuggle softness? Lord knows I am. 
Yet the fact that he got caught leads me to believe that Meeder mightjust bea pawn in the all-too-real black market for used Maidenform. In fact, unreliable sources tell me thathe was under direct orders from theDarthVaderoffeminineproducts,Harry Finley, amodem-dayrenaissancemanwho has opened up a Museum ofMenstruation in Hyattsville, Maryland. · 
Disturbing? You bet 
You have a few pairs of ladies underwear in your apartment, and sou're in­stantly convicted. 
It's a sad, sad, world. 
.Another 
Brief Snippet 
InBangkok,policestormed a noncornmis.5ioned officers' test at Ramkamheang Uni­versity after the school dis­covered a multi-student plot to cheat on an exam. 
Seventy-five students werearrestedforhavingspe~ cially-designedradioreceiv­ersin theirunderwear. Irani-
Iby Kris Kazlauskas 

cally,a policemanmastenninded thecrime, selling thereceivers to students while plan­ning to give the answers during thetest For a measly $2000, any student could elimi­nate exam jitters by putting one of these foreign objects in their nether regions. 
Of course, the question remains, ''What tipped the university off?" Was it the eerie voice thatkept emanating from John Doe's pants, or was it the fact thathalfofthe class was constantly trying to put their head between their legs? 
·.A Little Lobster Tale 

See Wiley. Wiley P. Koepp is running for studentbody president at theUniversity of Texas at Austin. He is happy. 
See Zoe and Squishy. They are lobsters. They belong to Wiley. They are happy too. 
SeeWileypromisetokillZoeandSquishy if he loses the election. Bad Wiley! Bad, bad Wiley! 
"Save the lobsters!" people cry. "Vote 
for Wiley!" But it is too late. 
Wiley finishes fourth. 
See Wiley put on a chef's hat Zoe and 
Squishy are not happy anymore. In front of 
thirty spectators, Zoe and Squishy cry out 
to an unfriendly world as th~irlittle, exosk­. eletalbodiesaremercilesslyboiledtodeath, crushed and eaten. The end. 
.McGruffCrime Watch 

While mass murderers run · rampant through the streets of Pittsburgh, it's ni~to . know that the Duquesne Security Patrol is 
out there to protect and serve. 
After investigating the kidnapping of 
two goldfish earlier in the year, the follow­
ing. is an excerpt from a recent security 
beat: 

March 1-Criminal Mischief. A blender 
was thrown from a Towers window. . 

25


1"AlE5 '.fRoM 1"He "foP OF 1He MME" 


'{A' l:.IIOII-', it Gin'&fein 
we livec,I i" -.aid 
+he Y-lll dir>tenSio", +i,,,e 
()Jr sha&oWs woulJ w~~ +he 
be in 3-1) ! 4~ JiMGniilDn••· 
Grist for the Mill 
IN LAST WEE.Ks ':Si\¥.CASTIC' ISSl.lE OF SCJtOLASTIG, 1 
WAS t'IC.TOJ1.Eb ON THE. COVER AS HAVING A r..x)MA/J'S BOW AND IJEAR.ING A.SIU:.'r' 
NIGHTIE ••• 
} 

I CAN TAKE A .j()l:'.E, 'BOT I'D Ul:'.E TD "TAl'..E. TtllS 0-PPDRT"ONlT\' T1) SET nlE 
RECDR'D STRAIGHT. I'M 
ALL MAN.fl 
I. WEAR. BDXS.-SIi~, }JOT A FAl'.E.-SIU'. 

CHEMl.5~/ 
~ti.)JJr!; Os •os *::i: 
·1 Pl!r-\ S! Sl'\-1-'ri.of-'I 
AND As fOt TliOSE. 
5HAPElY a'REA5TS 
IT LOOt.E.b 1...1 ti:. I f.\A'D •••
t . 
I I 
I ; 
. I 
I 
RICK GREY 
A {;00'\) "MIRACLE 13,~A" K.EA/..L'r' l>OES WORt WONDcR~/T 
) 
26 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• APRIL 6, 1995 


The Terrifying Truth 
of 

Waddic 


A one-part series documenting the hidden evil in the "Place Where Students and F acuity Meet" 
By Heidi Urben 
CAMPUS SECURITY BEAT: Mon­day,November28, 1994, 11:lSa.m.: Notre Dame Campus Security and a local EMS team from Michiana were dispatched to Waddick's, "A Place Where Students and Faculty Meet" Upon arriving at the scene, the team discovered a bright, young Chemi­cal· Engineering student writhing on the floor in agony. It appeared that the young lad was dragged into the quaint cafe against his will by a few fiendish Arts and Letters students. Knowing full well that such an encounter could psychologically paralyze the youth forever, the group of friends taunted the engineer with phrases like, ''Try a bagel. You'llgethungryduringclass. Get abagel! Getabagel!" Soontheentiregroup of bearded grad students began to pick up the chant Overcome by peer pressure, the poor boy collapsed onto the floor of Waddick's and went into a series cifconvul­sions. 
lam ashamed to say that I bore witness to this tragic ev,ent and did nothing. I watched the boy shake in pain, yet I did not inter­vene. Why, you may ask? I too am haunted by Waddick's. I, like the Engineering lad, am part of the silent majority on campus­those that hate,and fear Waddick's but are afraid to admit it And yes, I am even.an ARTS AND lETIERS student! Surely, you think, I must be comfortable in Waddick's! Guess again. 

Those who have never entered Satan's lair can only marvel at its many evils. It is populated by grad students -thus com­pletely throwing out the "Where Students andFacultyMeet,"becauseasweallknow, those that hibernate in Waddick's are nei­ther students nor faculty -they are grad students -the worst creatures of them all. 
You may be unaware of what really hap­pens to grad students here. The truth is that they have all been condemned by God to live out the rest of their lives as moles in Waddick's. When they're not scurrying about from carrel to carrel, they can be found diligently hunched over their course packets in the hallways of O' Shaughnessy. Their glazed eyes, swollen from excessive reading and the lack of light, and their incisors,sharpenedfrom theincessantgnaw­ing of bagels, are just two haunting remind­ers of their rodent-like existence. 
November 17, 1994, was the last time I was in Waddick's. I occupied a booth in the comer, nervously awaiting my grad stu­dent-Core professor who insisted upon meeting there. He ignored my attempts to suggest an alternate meeting place, stating fiercely,"Ican'tlivewithoutmylrishGream Coffee!!!" 
Trying to fit in with the crowd, I pur­chased a Snapple and did my best to look mole-like. Deep down inside, though, I knew that the grad students were looking at me and whispering "Intruder!" to one an­other. Before I knew what was happening, asmall,prematurely-baldingmoleleptinto my booth. With his eyes ablaze and his nostrils flared, he knew I was not of his kind. In a flash, he snatched my wallet and began rummaging through-scraping up my last nickels and dimes. 
"What the Heck?" I exclaimed, half out of fear, half out of pure anger that a mole was messing with my wallet 
"Nothing that concerns you, my lamb," he snorted. With that he ran to the counter to purchase another coffee. Before I could even protest, he had downed the coffee and burrowed back into his booth. I was left stunned. Feeling violated, I crawled into the hallway. 
But then I had a revelation. "I'm not going to stand this abuse anymore!" I marched right back into Waddick's and stood on one of the tables. "Now hear this, you Chicken-in-the-Pot-eating slobs!" I declared. "I'm madder than Randy 'The Macho Man' Savage without a Slim Jim!" 
"Preach on, sister!" yelled aNotre Dame housekeeper. 
The moles, squinting as they stared up­wardsinto the light, gasped. ''That' sright," I continued. "You existentialist, Birkenstock, bean-curd eatin' hoodlums think you own the place! But today, the Wall has fallen. The days of coffee and bagels are over!" 
I didn't know what had come over me. Before I knew what was happening, I had knocked over the coffee pots and smashed Snapples against the wall. ''That's right No more Minestrone. No more 'Coffee of the Day.' Ifyou want a drink, get a pint of milk from the Dining Hall." 
"But we 're lactose-intolerant!!!" screamed a female mole. 
''Too bad!" I declared, as I threw up the blinds in Waddick's. "Oh Lord, not the light!" they shrieked as they ran towards the cracks and crevices in the room. Tri­umphant, ljoined hands with-abusiness· student and an engineer in the center of Waddick's. The reign of terror had ended. "Fear not, my sheep. We shall live in harmony now. Ding dong, the moles are dead!" 
This is a hwnor colwnn. These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staffofScholastic 11agazine. 



Par for theCourse 

i 
I, 
! i 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ APRIL 6, 1995
28 

-
Huddle 
ews 
Volume 1 Issue 1 March 1995 
PHONE CARDS CONVERSATION 
Free Long Distance Calls 
T 
he Huddle is giving away 10 minute long 
distance phone cards to our pizza delivery customers. A great call anytime of day. Call Mom, Dad, brothers, sisters, and faraway friends FREE! All you need to do order pizza delivery from The Huddle twice and save the certificates that come with your pizzas. Then bring them to a Huddle Manager between the hours of 2pm to 3am (yes, we're open till 3 in the morning!) to get your phone card. That's all you need to do to get your card. Call The Huddle today at 1-6902 for the fastest delivery on campus. Offer good while supplies last. (we have a total of 3,250 minutes to give away). 
0 
ur prices beat 
the rest. The 
Huddle has the best deals on pizza ... guaranteed. Our pledge-We will meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal. Just call us and 

_ask. (Actually, we have not found a coupon that was a better deal than ours.) 
The Huddle serves up only the finest ingredients. Pepperoni, sausage, mushrooms, green peppers, onions, tomatoes, and more of the good things. PLUS ... LOTS OF CHEESE. 
You've tried the rest...NOW TRY THE BEST! 
A large one item pizza is now only $5 
Two large one iteni pizzas and a 2liter coke is 
only $10 ................................................> 

Free Thoughts 
" The best of life is conversation, and the greatest success is confidence, or perfect understanding between sincere people." Emerson, The Conduct ofLife, 1860 
"The art of conversation is the art of hearing as well as of being heard." William Hazlitt, The Plain Speaker, 1823 
"A gossip is one who talks to you about others; a bore is one who talks to you about himself; and a brilliant conversationalist is one who talks to you about yourself." Lisa Kirk New York Journal­American, March 1954 
'.'To listen closely and reply well is the highest perfection we are able to attain in the art of conversation." La Rochefoucauld, Maxims, 1665 
"The more the pleasures of the body fade away, the greater to me is the pleasure and charm of conversation." Plato, The Republic, 4th c. BC 
"Learned conversation is either the affectation of the ignorant or the profession of the mentally unemployed." Oscar Wilde, Intentions, 1891 
"Speech is civilization itself. The word, even the most contradicitious word, preserves contact-it is silence which isolates." Thomas Mann, The Magic Mountain, 1924 
Call a friend or loved one soon, But first call us. 
Call The Huddle For D_elivery at 1-6902 
Gov rnor obert Casey 
Former Governor of Pennsylvania (D) 

11 

Remaining Pro-Life i.n-·the Poli.tic.al Arena 11 
Tl1ursd.ay, April 6, 1995 8:00 P.11. 101 De.Bartolo 
Reception to follow in the Great Hall of The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
H~i}!=g Notre Dame Right to Life Notre Dame Law School Right to Life 
~! 
Notre Dame Law School 

Graduate Student Union Campus Ministry Student Government ~all Presidents' Council 




