i’i
6$
Try king-size Cavaliers! Feel that Cavalier mildness, so light, smooth and easy! See if you don't agree with thou-
sands of smokers everywhere who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they had been smoking. Yes____
Ask for the Cavalier “100” metal humidor. Keeps cigarettes fresh and flavorful.
CAVALIERS ARE KING-SIZE
yet priced no higher than leading regular-size brands.
SIZE
TTEs
Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!

Enjoy an extra measure of both sides of smoking pleasure — by switching to king-size Cavaliers. Try them 1 Find out for yourself that Cavaliers give you complete smoking enjoyment. What a
pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild ... tastes so good! No wonder Cavaliers are winning friends so fast!
Yes, join the thousands who are enjoying the extra mildness and superb flavor of king-size Cavaliers. Get some today!
King jr
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed
8 OUT OF 10 SAID
Cavalier

CAVALIERS ARE MILDER!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
• GOOD Clothes Open

(ft
e
Home of:
Hickey Freeman Society Brand GGG
Botany 500 Blipagora Eagle Burberry
^GILBERT'S
SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS

. . . and America's BEST Clothing and furnishings will be available to you next fall . . . right here on the Campus when Gilberts new Campus Shop opens to serve you! It’s smart to dress well . . . the well-dressed man finds success because he LOOKS like success. See you next fall . . . with America's finest clothes for men!
Good Education ... and a Good Appearance... Your keys to success!
OPEN NEXT FALL
tyay 13, 1955
3
Scholastic*
Vol. 96 May 13, 1955 No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, r Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate oim postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. AuthorizecV June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART JOHN ADAMS ..................   New?
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ........... Copy
CHARLES McKENDRICK ..................
........................... Assistant	Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY ________________....Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT _______________ Photo Editor
JIM FITZGERALD ......................
____________ Photography Coordinator CARL SCHAEFER ......  ...Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hugh, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, JameA Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John Me" Mahon, James Murphy, Thomas Quinn, Jim Stein- ; trager, Dave Thompson, Paul Underkofler. Ray i Walsh.	*■	;
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray < Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Vince Nai- , moli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.	.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer..
Our Cover: Fifty Senior Balls ago the fashionable couple alighted from a well-oiled buggy with all of one horsepower. Tonight the fashionable Senior Prom* -goer will alight from a well-shined sedai^ <’ with up to 200 times the power their : predecessors had. But other than that, the Golden Anniversary Senior Ball will still represent the same wonderful farewell to college social life it did in 1905: a weekend full of events that will live on into the future some 50 more wonderful years. The Scholastic salutes the Seniors and their Ball and everything they I both stand for. Art work by Baumer 1
The ScholastiQ I
the week
.by John O'Brien
Ahem . . .
Top of the WEEK
Columnist wanted . . .
Go! Galo!
Tonight at ten, the Senior Class steps out . . . under the moonlit glow of (we hope) a cloudless Indiana sky, the Old South will live again ... in the Drill Hall . . . yep, stepping out before stepping off into the dim haze of the oft-mentioned future . . . and away we go! This is the only dance of the springtime social season without a “Who is?” joke. . . . We were careful not to ask last WEEK “Who is Billy May?” but we heard more than a few ask “Whois Sam Donahue?”. . .
Speaking of Sam, it’s a wonder that the Student Center is still standing after the derogatory statements were blasted over the loudspeakers concerning its acoustical characteristics . . . seems Sam didn’t like to have Billy’s Band blamed for the excessive loudness of the footers . . . passed the buck to the poor Center . . . but we like the paint job, anyway . . . and speaking of paint jobs, jjjyou just gotta see the new Rathskeller in the Center! Man Oh Man! talk about swank! The decorators have gone and outdone themselves again . . . it’s too bad that the beverages will not fit the atmosphere . . . but then you can’t have everything.
Here They Are . . .
The Queens of the Scholastic Editors and columnists . . . you’ll be seeing them ^onight at the Senior Ball . . . Midge Myler of Ottawa, HL, and St. Mary’s Class of 1954, the date of Editor Larry Brehl . . . Mary Lou Fineis, hailing from Lansing, Mich., and dating Paul Fullmer, our Associate and Sports Editor . . . Mary Nell O’Connell from Fort Worth-and the Woods, will be squired by the Tampa Tummy, Associate Editor Fred Eckart . . . Virginia Warnke, the Queen of the last AB Ball and also Jim
ANN	MARY LOU
O’Shea . . . Last year’s Junior Prom Queen, Jeannette Young, again escorted by Don (High Plane column) Yeckel . . . and Ann Browne of St. Mary’s, Norton, Kansas, and yours truly . . . Let’s have a ball, gang! Hope we haven’t lost the prime after last night’s Publications Banquet . . .
Aw, Shucks . . .
Today is the last time we’ll be slipping under your dooi- in the WEEK . . . Smiling O’Shea gets the last word next WEEK, but we just can’t slip on into the never—never land where the alumnus dwells without a few parting words. Without being considered as an applicant for the serious, high plane column known as the “Back Page,” we’d like to stray from the “humor” for just a few lines . . . after a year of poking fun, cynical and sometimes sarcastic jabbing, it’d be just swell to say in a flippant phrase that it was all in fun . . . but most of the time it wasn’t . . . at times there is no person so frustrated as the perfectionist ... we just kinda’ figure that this place ought to be perfect, and we believe in incessantly blasting away at the wrongs we see ... if a few of you chuckled while we did it,
then it’s been worthwhile . . . it’s been a heck of a lot of fun, anyway . . .
The Snags . . .
The guy with the toughest job on campus for the past several WEEK’S has been our old buddy, Chuck Pollnow . . . he’s got the job of decorating the cow pal . . . er . . . Drill Hall for the Ball tonight . . . after spending several eons painting artificial walls, it seems that they didn’t pass the fire inspection ... so it’s up until three every morning with his tireless helpers trying to make that place look like a ballroom ... if anyone deserves a word of thanks tonight, it’s Chuck and his crew. You might think that the seniors are just lazy or something, the way the appeals have been going out like mad lately for helpers to decorate . . . but on checking the Scholastic for a few years back, it appears to be an annual problem . . . every year, it’s the same question . . . “What to do with the Drill Hall?” I’ve got a dandy idea, but then the Field House might catch too . . . It’s a crying shame that a burg the size of South Burlap can’t even support a dance hall the size of the Palais Royale . . . There may be all kinds of culture here, with libraries all over the boondocks . . . but the social life is on a par with some aboriginal tribe ... I won’t gripe about the bumpy streets and the other dilemmas ’round here if they’ll just find something to do besides go to the movin’ pitchers on Saturday night . . . For those of us who don’t bowl things are pretty tough . . . I’m tired of window shopping . . .
Oh, Great . . .
Well, the lights just went out, and the : WEEK is now coming to you courtesy of a flashlight mounted in my hat . . . It’s	;
always been kinda’ tough to put in a	1
full day’s work around here . . . newspaper style, anyway . . . why is it all the inspiration comes after	the	main	.
switch is thrown? (Shoulda’ flipped	it	;
earlier, tonight, methinks).	j
' i
Posts Again	*
Saw a few more gems this past WEEK . . . like the crew putting up (Continued on Page 33)
VIRGINIA JEANNETTE
calendaf

YOUR
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
^RWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED --
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
AQUINAS URRARY ad RNKSIRF
We SeU Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
FRIDAY, MAY 13
DRILL HALL (10 until 2)—It took four long years, but we finally made it! The “Ole South” will breathe again tonight as the fourth year men promenade their lovely ladies at the 1955 Golden Anniversary Senior Ball. Ralph Marterie will be on hand to liven up the occasion musically. It’ll be the last big College dance for the “ole dads” so if you see a couple here or there ... er, reminiscing, be a gentleman and pass by unnoticed, o.k.?
ON CAMPUS—The Engineers put in their two cents worth with their annual extravaganza of motor cars and supersonically designed space ships. It’s the annual Engineering Open House. Wonder if the slide-rule men have anything else planned for the weekend?
COLFAX (through May 19)—Don’t let the Hollywood-ish advertising on this throw you. The Blackboard Jungle (B), starring Glenn Ford and Anne Francis is a moving and exhausting drama on the trials and indignities heaped upon a school teacher and his wife by the delinquent youths of a rundown, tough big-city high school. A prime opportunity for the social study boys to get two feet on the ground and see what is actually happening in American schools.
AVON (ends May 18)—This was so good they held it over. 'J/iolent Saturday (B), with Victor Mature and Richard Egan, gets a deserved encore. As a point of information, it’s all about a bank holdup and how it affected the lives of about 10 people. It’s better than staying in, groaning over weekends past and the little gal who is gone for ... a few more weeks.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Some more G-man melodrama in I Cover the Underworld (A-2), with Sean McClory and Joanne Jordan, and The Marauders (B), with Dan Duryea and Keenan Wynn. Maybe it would be better to stay in and think about that doll!
GRANADA (ends May 19)—What happens when a female doctor locks horns with a male doctor in a small Mexican town, circa 1880? Greer Garson, in her outdoor-type debut, and Dana Andrews do a good job of answering that in Strange Lady in Town (A-2). Miss Garson arrives to make her mark in medicine in the little Mexican town and promptly steals Andrew’s clientele. What happens is a comedy and a remedy for a dull evening.
SATURDAY, MAY 14
SCHOOL FIELD (2 p.m.)—Titan Terry unveils the 1955 version of his Irish juggernaut against a group of Oldtimers who won’t be as old or crick-ety as the name might imply. Seniors can attend and tell their girls about the good old days when .. .
SUNDAY, MAY 15
STATE (ends May 19)—This one gets our recommendation for everybody of every religion to see. A Man Called Peter (A-2) starring Richard Todd and Jean Peters relates the fresh and forceful approach a Presbyterian clergyman takes in his calling, his impact on his church people and his ultimate success as Chaplain of the U. S. Senate. Truly a different and great movie. Carolina Cannonball mars the evening’s billing.
PALACE (through May 20)—Dial Red O and Run for Cover (B), and don’t say I didn’t tell you. Bill Elliott leads the first one while James Cagney handles the latter. Judging from the recent Hollywood activity on gangster flickers, one is prone to think America is one big happy gangland.
THURSDAY, MAY 19
GRANADA (indefinitely)—We read and heard an awful lot about it; and now we can see it. Strategic Air Command (A-2) with James Stewart, June Allyson and Frank Lovejoy playing the leads along with the Air Force’s B-36’s and B-47’s, is a very moving piece of entertainment that could very well run indefinitely. Stewart is a disgruntled baseball player who is recalled to duty. His wife, June Allyson, resents the change in status, but finally comes around in the end. Lovejoy does a good job of portraying General Curtis LeMay. The story rings true. And it rings all five bells on our rating system. It’s very much worth the toll.
The Scholastic
Edi tot's Page
Apologies...
The Scholastic extends its apologies to Mr. Robert O’Brien and Mr. H. o
Lee Hope for its error in identifying a picture of Mr. O’Brien as that of Mr. Hope. This mistake occurred in last week’s issue in a story concerning the resignation of Mr. Hope as director of the University Band and his replacement in that position by Mr. O’Brien.
Professional vs. Student-Written Productions
Five nights and five near-capacity audiences—a hit.
That’s the way the scorebook reads on Seventeen, as presented in the form of a musical by the University Theatre.
Many -who saw it came away from Washington Hall humming, whistling, singing the songs, applauding the performances of any number of the cast, or just highly satisfied. Many students who saw it advised others not to miss it. That’s the way it went.
But several months ago, when the selection of Seventeen as this year’s musical was announced, it was much different. The few comments the announcement aroused were unfavorable. It was said: “Why can’t they be more original in selecting a musical” and “Why did they pick that instead of having a student-written musical?” Now, the excellent performances seem to have justified the selection of Seventeen; on the other hand, a student-written musical would have to be first-rate to compete with an already proven one. There was reportedly no satisfactory student script available.
That shouldn’t eliminate the prospect of staging student-written plays or musicals. Though the program for next year hasn’t been announced yet, we have heard that Brigadoon is the musical that will be produced. This is fine, if no student-written script of high quality is submitted. But if a good one is submitted, we feel it should be given preference. The Theatre should encourage not only student actings, but also student writings of musicals and plays.
In the past few years, several student-written musicals have been staged (rather successfully) in Washington Hall. In order to promote the writing of such productions, the University Theatre could probably conduct a script competition with little difficulty. It could be announced before the vacation begins and close in the late fall. That would gave time for the best script, if determined good enough, to be polished for production in the spring. At any rate, we suggest that anyone who would like to do a script contact Father Harvey, director of the Theatre.
The Senior Ball: 1905-1955
Fifty years ago a small group of seniors and their dates initiated an event that has become a high point in the Notre Dame man’s four years here—the Senior Ball. Tonight, some 600 members of the Class of 1955 and their dates will continue the tradition with the Golden Anniversary Senior Ball. We wish them all a most enjoyable time tonight in “The Deep South” and through the entire weekend, one that will be happily remembered years hence.
On the Honor System
The referendum on installing an Academic Honor System at Notre Dame showed that the 1400 eligible voters, sophomores and juniors, were against the proposed plan in a ratio of over 3 to 1. The main reason for this is considered to be the point in the proposed plan requiring one student to turn in another seen cheating on a test.
Should the Honor System be proposed again for student vote, we suggest that it be a revised plan, be much better publicized and that the pul> licity not be entirely one-sided. We refer particularly to discussions about the System; several of these were conducted on WNDU, but none in public meetings where student opinion could be solicited and questions answered.
Despite the results of the referendum, the students who drew up the proposed plan and conducted the referendum are to be commended for their efforts.	. .
7
May 13, 1955
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
VjfARLtSS^OSDICK. by AL CAPP
PHOTOGRAPHERS WILL SOON BE HERE." I MUST- LOOK MY BEST"'
YOU'RE I NATCHERLY "-f YOU GOT BACK? I WHAT WE BUSTED OUT -} i—FOR." AMERICA'S FAVORITE
I	HAIR- TONIC, WILDROOT CREAM-
/	OIL WHICH KEEPS* HAIR
I I NEAT AN' • NATURAL —
NO ONE EVER GOT “TEED OFF” AT AN ARROW POLO SHIRT
How could they? Arrow polos give unlimited comfort and style. What’s more, these fine knitted polos keep their shape almost forever.
For casual wear, and for active sports, you’ll find them cool and absorbent... a pleasure to wear. In solids, stripes and quiet patterns, these luxurious polos are yours at a pauper’s price.
Combine them with smartly tailored Arrow sailcloth slacks like those shown above, and you’ll face the heat... calm, cool and correct. Arrow polos, $3.95. Slacks, $5.95.
ARROW
CASUAL WEAR SHIRTS & TIES k UNDERWEAR L HANDKERCHIEFS
ALSO REMOVES LOOSE, UGLY DANDRUFF, AND CONTAINS
BUT DAT WOULD BE I ILLEGAL." MY NAME
LANOLIN."’ — GET	A J
WU.DROOT CREAM* H OlL_fUADl ic rr J
OIL,CHARLIE''^
ONLY A CREAN! DRESSING GROOMS J HAIR THE NATURAL WAY’E--ABSOLUTELY NONALCOHOLIC. WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS!
BUY AMERICA'S FAVORITE?/
LANOLIN CROOMS TMf HAIR WiffVH ORTNfSS RIMOVfS 10«t Minim
WILDROOT
C« CJMi-OM, NOW TOWIC /
8
The Scholastic
; scholastic
Volume 96, Number 22	Notre Dame, Indiana	May 13, 1955
.SENIORS SECEDE TO ‘OLD SOUTH’ TONIGHT
ataaaiAiSBWsauaxas^
'Golden Ball/ Mar+erie To Draw 600 Couples
Six hundred Senior Ball-goers and their dates will dance to the rhythms of Ralph Marterie tonight in the ballroom atmosphere of an old southern mansion. The “Old South” will pervade the Navy Drill Hall from 10 p.m. till 2 a.m.
Eileen Hennessy, ■ date of Senior Ball Chairman Jim Griffin wall capture the spotlight when she is crowned queen of the “Golden Anniversary Ball” by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.-C., president of the University. Miss Hennessy is from Bloomington, Ill., and is a junior at St. Mary’s College.
Jimmy McShane’s Dixieland group trom Chicago will provide the entertainment during the intermission. Free refreshments will be served.
Decorations Chairman Chuck Pollnow explained that great care has been taken to transform the Drill Hall into a south-em mansion for the ball. As the couples enter they will be greeted by footmen and then go up a slight rise and out onto the platform. Confronted by a beautiful ipond and garden, they will descend side staircases and enter the ballroom which has pillars and white fences lining either side. Mannequins, banners, and myriads of golden roses 'behind the band will commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Senior Ball.
Saturday morning at 10 a.m., Rev. C. I. McCarragher, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, will celebrate a Mass in the j Dillon Hall Chapel. The afternoon will be open for picnics. Tomorrow eve-| (^ung 125 couples will attend a dinner-u dance at the Erskine Country Club. H Dinner will be served from 5:30 to 8 p.m., with dancing from 8:30 till 11:30 p.m. to the music of Don Gels’ combo.
Sunday morning 255 couples will attend 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church celebrated by Father Hesburgh, and will then go to the Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall. Father Hesburgh and Paul Butler, a Notre Dame graduate and presently Demo-
Devine, Serfko, Pedace Elected to Senate Posts; Hall Constitution System Approved Monday
The list of Student Senate officers for the 1955-56 school year was completed at a recent Senate meeting when Dan Devine, Joe Safko, and Frank Pedace were elected vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively. Devine, a junior accounting major, served as president of the Junior Class and Senate treasurer this year. Safko was elected stay senator recently and served as Lyons Hall representative this year. Pedace, also a stay senator, was recently elected next year’s Junior Class president.
•At its first regular meeting Monday, the new Senate approved a model hall constitution and a Hall Presidents’ Council constitution. The new constitutions
MISS EILEEN HENNESSY
Belle of the Ball
cratic National Chairman, will speak at the Breakfast.
“I would like to remind everybody of a few things,” remarked Griffin. “First of all, the basement of the Student Center is completed and can be used all weekend, and secondly, we ask that tonight all cars come in past the Circle and turn north down the road between O’Shaughnessy Hall and Cartier Field.
Remember also that week-end car permissions and 3 a.m. residence permissions have been granted. The latest hour for admittance to the dance will be 11 p.m. and 1 a.m. is the earliest hour for departure.”
are designed to improve student government -within the residence halls. The model hall constitution was established provisionally as the official constitution of all residence halls. The constitution must be ratified by a two-thirds vote of the hall residents voting in the fall elections to be permanently adopted.
The Hall President’s Council constitution formalizes the organization of the Hall Council System which has been operating this year under the direction of Dick Burke. Both constitutions were presented by Burke and had been approved by the Hall Council System.
In his president’s report Tom Crehan asked for suggestions for men to fill student government offices during the coming year. He stated that the positions will be filled without regard to class affiliation, but that interest and experience would be required.
The Senate authorized a committee to refund money to those students who did not receive Mardi Gras pictures from the Senate-approved photo concessionaire. Dan Devine, who has been working. to get back the lost pictures, reported that they had been auctioned off at the Boston freight office when the owner of the chest in ■ which they were shipped refused to pay the freight.
Jim Hesburgh, 1954-55 physical facilities commissioner and president of the campus military council, appeared before the Senate to ask that next year’s military council president be made an ex officio member of the Senate. Under Hesburgh’s proposal the council president would have a voice but not a vote in the Senate. Final action on this proposal will be taken Monday.
'^May 13, 1955
Students Crash Honor System by 3 to 1 Vote; Vague Proposal Given as Reason for Defeat
By JIM LOEFFLER
On Thursday, May 5, the juniors and sophomores defeated by a three-to-one majority the proposed referendum for the installation of an honor system. The final vote, 1,020 to 379, was a definite declaration of student opinion concerning this particular proposal.
The Scholastic, in order to find out the reasons for such a one-sided tally, asked Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, Tom Crehan, next year’s Student Senate president, Bert Millen and the committee which was responsible for the plan, and a cross-section of the student body for their opinions on the voting.
According to Father Norton, Thursday’s vote was not one against the honor system but rather one in opposition to the particular type proposed by the commit- • tee. The reason, he said, for the rejection was due to the many questions which remained unanswered. The plan was too vague and left too many unexplained points to be passed.
“Honesty,” Father Norton continued, “is not something that can be pounded into a person at gunpoint. Rather it is an integral part of the individual and a personal characteristic which must be developed by the person himself. It is up to the individual to make the choice of honesty and an honor system cannot build it in him.”
Both Crehan and the honor system committee felt that the reaction was due to the broadness of the terms in the referendum. Instead of particulars, generalities were used, and, as Crehan said, “The student body could not write out a blank check and tell the university to do whatever they wanted.”
Student opinion supported Father Norton and Crehan in their assumption that the plan was not well defined. They felt that the honor system concept might be a good idea, but was not acceptable as presented on May 5. Objections were raised against the “third man” clause by which anyone seeing the cheating would be forced to turn in the person violating the code. One of the elementary characteristics of a Notre Dame man, they contend, is the element of trust in others and this they felt would be damaged by the proposed honor system.
Besides these, there was another reason for the system’s defeat. Many commented that the honor system failed to meet with their expectations because it did not deal with the real cause of dishonesty. Instead of stressing an honor
10
system which makes each person a watchdog, emphasis should be placed on the individual. They felt that the person’s concept of honesty is in question and no honor system can change him from being basically honest or dishonest.
Meagher Will Edit 'Juggler'; Other Staff Posts Announced
Last night at the publications banquet Frank Maier, editor of this yearns Juggler, announced John Meagher as his successor for 1955-56.
In accepting the top post of the cam-
JOHN MEAGHER
Chief Juggler
pus literary magazine, Meagher disclosed Francis X. Newman, this year’s associate editor, will be succeeded by Richard Rupp an AB junior and Robert Duffy a sophomore in arts and letters, who will team up to handle the job. With John E. Slavick going out with ’54-’55 staff, Meagher has designated Terry Crowley, a General Program sophomore as business manager, replacing graduating Senior John Slavick.
Meagher, who next year will begin his senior year in Arts and Letters, hails from Washington, D.C. He plans a few changes in the Juggler for next year including articles dealing with the different fine arts and an index of thoughthandling many philosophical issues of the day. Meagher will form a board which will judge the various articles submitted for publication.
Meagher’s staff for next year will be about the same size as this year’s since he has found a small staff to be the most efficient.
Fr. Gabriel to Lecture Abroad This Summer *
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O.Praem., director of the Mediaeval Institute at the University, has been invited to give several lectures in France during the summer months. He will present papers to the Academic des Inscriptions et Belles Let-tres, the Historical Society of Paris, and the Catholic University of Paris in June. He will also confer with mediaeval schol-^ ars at Oxford and London and attend^ the World Congress of Historians at Rome early in September.
Father Gabriel’s subject in speaking to the French Academy on June 17 will be “The Accounts of the University of Paris.” A specialist in mediaeval education, he is continuing the publication of the famous Chartularuim, a collection of records on the Library of the University of Paris.	A
“The Intellectual Life in Ave MariaW College,” an institution founded in 1336 within the University of Paris, will be Father Gabriel’s topic in addressing the Historical Society of Paris on June 21. He will also address the faculty and student body of the Catholic University of Paris on “Robert of ’Sorbonne,” a secular priest who founded the College of the Sorbonne, which gave its name to the present University.
Father Gabriel will sail for Europe at-the end of May and return to the Notre^ Dame campus early in September.
Cahill Announces New Plan For Graduate Student Tickets
Robert Cahill recently announced the graduate student football ticket plan for the 1955 season.
Those graduate Students who are cer-^ tain they will return to Notre Dame next .September for further study may ‘ make reservations for student football tickets by calling at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall during the month of f May, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m.: to 5:00 p.m., and filling out a form.. Those who take advantage of this reservation period will be seated together in ■ a better location than will be obtainable if the graduate student waits until registration time.
This regulation applies to all clerical : students who are not members of the \ Holy Cross Congregation.	’
Married graduate students who wish > to purchase adjacent seats for their; wives may do so by presenting ID cards i when reserving their student tickets. Price of the wife’s ticket is $10. I
Tickets will be issued next September I at a time and place indicated in regis- [ tration instructions.	|
The Scholasti^ (

Doherty Takes First *lnSpeechTournament
The University Debate Team recently announced the successful showings of Senior Chuck Doherty, this year’s club president, and Sophomore Al Riley, next year’s novice instructor, at the InterCollegiate Speech Association of Indiana contest held at Butler University.
Competing against 30 students from ^seven schools, Doherty was awarded first place and §25 for his effort in the extemporaneous speech division.
Doherty spoke on “The Admission of Red China to the United Nations.”
After discussing his subject for eight minutes, each contestant is subjected to a one-minute question period by a panel. He then has two minutes in which to answer- the posed questions.
The entire speech was tape-recorded ^and will be entered in the national contest which will be held sometime next year.
Riley won §15 for his second-place showing in the oratory division. He gave a twelve-minute prepared speech on “The Virtue of Peace.”
The final scheduled debate for the team this year -will be held tonight at Marquette University. Sophomore Jerry Garvey and Junior Dick Schiller, who is president-elect of the club, will be com-^peting against 20 other contestants for rhe Fred Miller Memorial Trophy.
As a sidelight, Garvey and Schillerwill be the guests of the Miller family at the Milwaukee-Philadelphia Phillies baseball game this afternoon.
Student Art to Be Presented At Two Exhibitions in May
_ Art students of the University were invited to display their works at two exhibitions this month. The showings are scheduled for St. John’s College, Collegeville, Minn., and the annual Michiana Ceramic Regional here in South Bend.
The St. John’s show includes works by all departments in oils, water color, sculpture, and crafts works. The sculpture and crafts art is being displayed in the form of photographic reproductions.
™ In the South Bend exhibitions, a group of 13 terra cottas and majolicas by sculpture students under Father Lauck are being shown in connection with the annual regional, which represents artists from Indiana and Michigan.
In their final exhibition of the present school term, art students will display the best of their works here at the O’Shaughnessy Galleries beginning May 21.
TEENAGE POLISH DANCE GROUP IN A DANSCENE’
Interpretation of Folk Dance, Legends Enhance Their Culture
Mazur Polish Dancers Give Recital May 22; Teenage Group Features Ballet Repertoire
The Mazur Polish Dancers of Milwaukee will conclude the Concert and Lecture Series at 3 p.m. on Sunday, May 22 in Washington Hall. There will be no admission charge.
The group, composed of 30 high school teenagers, specializes in the expression of Polish folk dances, particularly the “danscene.” This is a scene depicting various customs and legends in dance. While the form reminds one of ballet and pageantry, it is unique in itself in that it weaves various dance routines, music, and temperament with spectacle or pantomime which gives an authentic representation of the customs, songs, or dances being presented.
A special branch of the Polish Dancers, The Mazur Polish Dancers of Hollywood, has appeared in numerous motion pictures.
The objectives of the Mazur Polish Dancers are, through interpreting the folk dances, legends, and customs of the Polish people, to appreciate that culture more, and through it, the many allied cultures of the world which are gradually building up America’s growing national culture.
Through their service to their fellow men in hospitals, orphanages, institutions, and other welfare groups, these young people learn their responsibility to the less fortunate. ‘Through service to their community and its many groups, these young people are learning their place in a cooperative society which is America.
Some of the dances expected to be-presented include: Polonaise, Easter Monday in Cracow, Polish Mountaineer Dances, Polish Wedding in Lowicz, and Silesian Regional Dances.
Founded in 1940 by Prof. Alfred «f. Sokolnicki, supervisor of the Speech Clinic and Hearing Laboratory at Marquette University, the group first achieved national acclaim at the "National Convention of the.American Legion in 1941. Since that time, they have made numerous appearances under the USO during World War II, and have also appeared at veterans’ hospitals, conventions, in the movies and on television.
Olin Selected Grand Knight By Campus K. of C. Council
James Olin, a junior from Aledo, Ill., was recently elected grand knight of the campus Knights of Columbus Council for the 1955-56 school term.
Other officers selected for next year were Don Stuhldreher, deputy grand knight; Bill McGowan, chancellor; Bob ’ Miller, warden; Jim Ullrich, advocate; Bob Andrews, treasurer; Dan Bergen, corresponding secretary; Tom Doyle and Chuck Grace, outside guards; and Jack Armstrong, inside guard.
Lou Basso, this year’s Grand Knight, announced recently that the last meeting for the year will be held on Monday, May 23, at 7:45 p.m. in the Council’s quarters in the basement of Walsh.
^Way 13, 1955
11
STUDENTS THRONG GROTTO FOR ANNUAL MAY DAY OBSERVANCE
Enthusiasm and attendance represent true spirit
Campus Dedicated to Maty
By TOM QUINN
A week ago last Monday, the Notre Dame family gathered at the Grotto for the fifty-ninth time to honor Mary by May devotion ceremonies.
What is most unique about this shrine is that it is one of the most exact replicas in this country of the grotto at Lourdes.
Its situation, size and appearance greatly resemble the original shrine, for as in France the shrine is built within a small hill and, like Lourdes, it looks towards a small body of water—Saint Mary’s lake.
Also the boulders, some weighing two to three tons, which form the memorial.
12
Our Lady’s statue up in the niche at the right and Bernadette’s image kneeling facing her from below likewise suggest the natural setting in France.
The project, a gift of a Notre Dame alumnus, Rev. Thomas Carroll, was begun in 1896 and was dedicated on the feast of “Our Lady of the Snows.”
Since that time three more outdoor shrines have been added to the campus, the last being completed and dedicated last December. It is the statue at the Circle entitled “Notre Dame, Our Lady of the University.”
The new piece represents a youthful and diiferent Mary—Notre Dame’s
Mary. This work, thought of as “the . climax of the University’s Marian Year celebration,” was constructed in the Circle so that there would be an image of Mary at the University entrance welcoming all who come to her campus? , She greets them as a slender and friend- VI ly girl, not bedecked in veils of flowing clothes but rather wearing a simple and i I straight hanging frock, with hands bidding all welcome.	;
The idea for such a statue was pre- ' I sented in Dec. 1953, to Rev. Anthony ; Lauck, C.S.C., head of the Art depart- | ment and one of the country’s foremost j sculptors. Father Lauck made several I
1 The ScholastiC
maquettes (preliminary clay working' sketches), each representing some title ^from the litany.
It was decided that the sketch of Mary as a young girl was the most apropos, as it “expressed her perpetual virginity and ‘fits in’ more with the youthfulness and life of the University.” She was to be unlike other statues, with raffled hair, for example, and to be Notre Dame’s own.
Since it was to be so unique, it was not cast in bronze, as are most outdoor ^statues and as most of the other campus monuments. Rather an actual-sized plaster model was taken to a stonecarver in Detroit, Mich., where the seven foot white, limestone likeness was completed.
Dedicated on Feastday
It was erected on a seven foot shaft and dedicated last Dec. 8, the last day of the Marian Year, at the same time as the rededication of the University ,^vhich, since its founding, had been placed under the Blessed Lady’s command.
The first dedication was by Father Sorin who had a special devotion to Mary. When he and his companions arrived at the site of the present University, in the winter of 1842, the Indiana wilderness lay covered by a blanket of snow and Father Sorin wrote that “. . . it all appeared so beautiful. The lake, resplendent in its whiteness, was j^o us a symbol of the stainless purity of our august Lady.” He consecrated the site, and the souls of those around him and to follow him, to the Blessed Virgin.
Another of the newer memorials to Mary is that of “Our Lady of Fatima.” It was erected in 1952, beside U.S. route 31, to attract passing motorists and establish a roadside shrine in this section of the country, where open-air services ^ould be held.
The white, life-size figures of Mary, the Portuguese children and their flock
were designed by an artist in Cincinnati. On Oct. 19, 1952, the memorial was dedicated, with Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., of the Family Rosary Hour fame, delivering the sermon.
This is but a preliminary step in the development of this section of the campus. In the near- future a $325,000 retreat house will be built behind the shrine, for individual, group and family retreats.
Perhaps the most forgotten of all campus Marian shrines is another of these outdoor memorials—“The Sorrowful Mother.” It is the climax of the outdoor Stations of the Cross.
The statue is a life-size likeness in bronze and represents Mary, with St. John, at the foot of the Cross. The figures, under a natural arch of trees, stand on a wooded knoll in one of the least traveled parts of campus.
But it is the oldest of outdoor shrines at Notre Dame that is the most renowned—the Golden Dome.
Chicago artist Giovanni Meli designed this edifice as a replica of the work erected by Pius IX in the Pizza do Spagna of Rome, commemorating the declaration of the Immaculate Conception.
When the statue, a gift of St. Mary’s College, arrived in 1880, the Dome was unfinished, so it was temporarily placed on the roof of the Main building porch.
Mounted in 1882
The Dome was completed in Sept. 1882, and the following month the statue was raised to its present position, 206 feet above the sidewalk.
Few changes have been made since that fall day some seventy years ago. Its 140 foot circumference has been regilded with gold-leaf several times, the last being in 1948 at a cost of $20,000. Spotlights now illuminate the work in the evenings but other than that, the Dome with its 4,400 pound, 16 foot (Continued on Page 32)
Our Lady of the University greets all visitors to the Circle.
Our Lady of Fatima Roadside Shrine.
Golden Altar of Our Lady Chapel
May 13, 1955
13
Carroll Chosen Editor of Technical Review'; Brehl Named to Post of Business Manager
Nine appointments to the editorial staff of the Technical Revieiv for next year were announced last night at the publications’ dinner by Frank Florian, who along with Gerry Schoenherr shared the magazine editorship.
Dick Carroll, a junior in mechanical engineering, will take over as editor for
DICK CARROLL
Top Tech Reviewer
the forthcoming year. A former staff writer and copy editor, Carroll has spent three years on the Technical Review staff. The Springfield, Mass., youth served as chairman of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers this year.
William Brehl of Washington, Pa., was named to the post of business manager. A junior in the engineering-law combination program, Brehl also came up through the ranks as a staff writer. This year he served as features editor.
A sophomore from Berwyn, Ill., John . Scriba will take over as features editor replacing Brehl. This year Scriba served as a staff writer.
Moving into the position of coordinating editor is Henry Burke who has been a member of the staff for three years. Two years ago the electrical engineering major served as administration head and this year he was coordinating head. Burke hails from Tacoma, Wash.
For copy editor Dick Carroll chose Tom Schriber, a sophomore in chemical engineering. A dean’s list member, Schriber is from Rogers City, Mich.
Continuing as art and layout head, James 'Mitchell is a third-year man majoring in architecture. A member of the dean’s list, Mitchell has been art and layout head for three years. He has
been responsible for the excellent showing of the Technical Review in national contests. Mitchell is from Sharon, Mass.
Taking over the three remaining positions are Bill Reeve, managing editor; Frank Boos, circulation manager; and Don Gothard, administration. Boos is a junior in electrical engineering and lists his home address as San Francisco, Calif. Reeve is from Hartford, Conn., and a sophomore in the Engineering School. Gothard is a junior from Madison, Wis.
The Technical Revieiv is published four times a year by the students of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture. It has a circulation of 200 alumni and 1300 university subscribers. Since it was originated in 1949, the magazine has won six trophies in national competition, three of these last year.
Selection of the new editors was done on the basis of past performance, interest, and ability. One of the first duties of the new editor will be to present this year’s editions at the annual Engineering Magazine Association Convention in Lincoln, Neb., next fall. Judging of the various technical and school magazines will be done there.
Dr. Ryan Edits Volume Of Brownson Essays
The spiritual and intellectual odyssey of Orestes A. Brownson, nineteenth century American philosopher and journalist, is traced in the Brownson Reader, an anthology of his writings published May 5 by P. J. Kenedy and Sons, New York.
Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, associate professor of English at the University, has edited and written an introduction to the volume which includes representative essays penned by Brownson at various stages of his controversial career. Associated with several Protestant sects in his earlier years both as a minister and a layman, Brownson became a convert to Catholicism at the age of 41. He is buried in the crypt of Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
“Brownson has been denounced by liberals for his conservatism and by conservatives for his liberalism,” Dr. Ryan writes in his introduction. He characterizes Brownson as “a seeker, with all the enthusiasm and the passionate intensity of men of that stamp.” The central concern of Brownson’s life, Dr. Ryan believes, was his “quest for religious certainty” and his “concern about temporal and contingent realities: justice between man and man, political lib
erty and order, the good of the earthly city.”	,
In Dr. Ryan’s opinion, Brownson’^ most important work was that of the^ J general critic and journalist “although I much of his work transcends the limita- I tions of journalism.” Brownson was a leading spokesman of the Transcenden-talists and was closely associated with | Emerson, Hawthorne, and Alcott. He ! was also regarded as a social reformer	I
and a defender of the Catholic faith.	I,
Dr. Ryan, a member of the Notre Dame faculty from 1943-46 and sinc^^ | 1951, recently was awarded a faculty fellowship for 1955-56 by the Fund for the Advancement of Education. He will spend the year at Princeton University studying and observing the Special Pro- । gram in Humanities, the Honors Pro- | gram and the Christian Gauss Seminars I in Criticism.	I
Fr. Lauck Wins Art Award For Blessed Mother Work
The Wagner Purchase Award was awarded to Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Art at Notre Dame, for a sculpture done by him in the current Michigan Regional Ceramic Exhibition. The exhibition is to be on display at the South Bend Art Association galleries here, beginning May 21. Work of sculptors and ceramists from Indiana and Michigan will be represented.
Father Lauck’s winning sculpture i^O a terra cotta figure of the sorrowful Mother, entitled Mater Dolorosa. The same sculpture won the grand Ceramic Prize at the Indiana State Fair last summer, and more recently won a C. Allan Harlan Award at the Ecclesiastical Arts Guild Show in Detroit. It will now go into the permanent collection of the South Bend Art Galleries.
FR. LAUCK’S ’MATER DOLOROSA’
—for South Bend Gallery
The Scholastic^
14
DON SNIEGOWSKI GETS OFFICIAL EYE FROM OUTGOING EDITOR LALONDE And Planning for the 1956 ‘Dome’ Gets the Green Light
Sniegowski Selected Editor of 1955-56 'Dome'; Griffin, Morsches Given Top Assistant Posts
Don Sniegowski has been appointed editor of the 1955-56 edition of the Dome, it was announced at the publications’ dinner last night by present Edi" tor Bud LaLonde. Sniegowski is a junior English major from Toledo, 0., who this year served as halls editor.
Assisting Sniegowski in the capacity of associate editor will be Gene Griffin, an accounting major from Knoxville, Tenn. Griffin served as sports editor this year and has been on the Dome staff for the past two years.
Other appointments include Fred A Brinskelle who will handle the business manager’s many duties and Robert W. Morsches who will become managing editor. Brinkselle, a junior in engineering from Birmingham, Ala., has already launched the senioi- photo job for next year. Morsches, a junior business administration major from Fort Wayne, Ind., served as staff artist on this year’s book.
The varsity and interhall sports 'will be handled by Charles O’Neill who will serve as sports editor. Jim Meagher will coordinate the various residence halls. Social activities will be in charge of Roger Bennett, and Dick Colman will handle other activities.
In charge of the seniors’ memories will be Jim Rose, while John Henrick will cover academic life and Robert Haverkamp will be copy editor.
A total of 22 offices were filled by appointments. Twelve sophomores join
the staff as assistant editors.
Sniegowski comments that his staff for next year is very satisfactory in saying: “The future editors have all proven themselves in their assistant editorships this year. I am very pleased to have such an excellent staff, which is any editor’s greatest asset. We are thinking of some changes right now, but nothing definite. One thing is certain, a page-by-page layout will be planned before the start of the school term next fall. All suggestions pertinent to the Dome for next year will be appreciated, accepted, and considered."
Catholic Drama Body Meets Here in June
A production of Everyman starring the Dutch actress Helen Oosthoek, will be the highlight of the tenth biennial convention of the Catholic Theatre Conference here June 12-15.
More than 1500 teachers, directors and students of the drama from Catholic high schools and colleges throughout the country are expected to attend the sessions, according to Therese Marie Cuny, Chicago, conference president. Included in the convention program will be the presentation of several plays and discussions of virtually every phase of theatrical activity.
Other plays to be presented by college and high school dramatic groups
during the convention include Natalie White’s The Billion Dollar Saint, the Notre Dame Department of Speech; Parade at the Devil’s Bridge, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind.; Hotel Universe, Catholic Community Theatre, Rochester, N. Y.; Blithe Spirit, Clarke College, Dubuque, la.; and The Crucible, Loyola University, Chicago.
Also The Strong Are Lonely, St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn.; Room Service, Detroit University High School; Pierre Patelin, Rosati-Kain High School, St. Louis, Mo.; and The Princess Marries a Page, Regis High School, Eau Claire, Wis.
Engineering Exhibition Begins This Afternoon
The annual Open House of the College of Engineering began this afternoon with lectures and a demonstration in Washington Hall. Chairman Berkley Cooke announced that it will continue through Sunday, offering shows and exhibits of interest to the student body.
At 2 pan. today, Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, gave the official welcome to the students and James C. Zeder, vice-president in charge of engineering of the Chrysler Corp., gave a talk on “The Future of the Engineer.” At 2:30 the Delco-Remy Division of General Motors Co. presented a show entitled “Engineering.— Key to Progress.”
Today between 3:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., tomorrow between 11:15 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., and 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 pan. Sunday tours will be conducted through the displays of each engineering department. Tomorrow morning at 10:30 there will be an air show at the Aeronautics Building. Between 10:30 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall, the Auto Show will exhibit eight sports and experimental cars.
The engineers will hold their annual chariot race after the conclusion of the air show tomorrow. Seven chariots representing all engineering departments will vie for top honors. Each carriage is drawn by two students and driven by one over the 100-yard course. During halftime, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will present trophies to the department winning the race, to the one with the best decorated chariot, and to the department with the finest Open House displays.
The Department of Architecture will also present two lectures Saturday which everyone is invited to attend. Robert Allen Jacobs will speak in the Nieuwland Science Hall at 3 p.m. and Richard Neutra at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
May 13, 1955
Father Sorin's Statue Makes Annual Trip;
Returns After Attending the Kentucky Derby
By JOHN ADAMS
No one was too surprised when the two-and-a-half foot statue of Father Sorin disappeared from its niche in Sorin Hall a couple of weeks ago—the small statue has made some sort of mythical hegira to distant lands almost annually for as long as anyone can remember. Telegrams have been received from the traveling padre in such odd places as Florida, the inauguration of President Eisenhower, the coronation of Queen Elizabeth, and so on.
His whereabouts was soon established this year when the local network, WNDU, received a telegram from the good father announcing that he was on his way to the Kentucky Derby with a fistful of the greener substances. Nothing more came out of the blue-grass territory until last Monday when word was received that he “lost all on Nashua” and was “returning home” that night at 8 o’clock.
Elaborate preparations were undertaken to welcome the sportsman-priest back to the campus. A committee headed by Sorinites Jack Casey and Jacques Fiehrer posted notices of the big welcoming parade which would form at the Circle and troop back to the hall with the much-sought-after icon in tow. Songs were composed and a loudspeaker installed “somewhere upstairs.”
At 7:45 the loudspeaker system began to rout out Sorin residents and those within earshot in Walsh. About a hundred of the troops fell to and marched somewhat disorganized to the Circle. Meanwhile, back at the hall, the loudspeaker blared forth such appropriate tunes as My Baby’s Cornin’ Home, Happy Wanderer, Take Me Back and Dragnet. Father Cady, rector of Sorin, signified his approval of the whole affair with a request for The Finger of Suspicion Points at You.
A late newsbit revealed that Father Sorin’s plane would be a little late because of the inclement weather. The faithful fans milled about in the drizzle at the Circle but spirit was restored with a few rousing choruses of the newly-written tunes:
Oh, Sorin has been to Kentucky The Derby he ivent there to see.
Now Sorin is back from Kentucky So bring my statue to me.
and:
When Sorin comes marchin’ home again, Hurrah, hurrah !
When Sorin comes marchin’ home again, Hurrah, hurrah!
16
The guys will cheer, Father Cady rvill shout,	-
The whole darn campus will all get otit, And we’ll all be gay when Sorin comes marchin’ home again.
At long last, a long car pulled up to the Circle and out popped the time-honored reverend. Propped ceremoniously on a two-wheeled conveyance, he toured the campus at the head of a cheering crowd and finally ended up in front of the traditional Sorin porch.
Rector Cady appeared with a few well-chosen words. Said he as he surveyed the milling mob, “This is a superb example of sterling student leadership.”
Co-chairmen Casey and Fiehrer then reverently lifted the statue’ from the go-cart and carried it into the hall.
Father Sorin was home again.
ND Choraliers Select Pottebaum President
The new president of the Glee Club for the 1955-56 school term is Gerard Pottebaum, a junior in the General Program from Teutopolis, Ill. Pottebaum was elected by the club members in balloting held May 4.
Jim Cremins and John Goedecke opposed Pottebaum in the race for the presidential position. This balloting conducted on the preferential ballot system, as were the other elections, resulted in a close finish.
The vice-president for the Club next
JERRY POTTEBAUM
year will be Albert Virostek. He is a junior in Commerce from Washington Crossing, Pa. Virostek defeated Joe Casarella foi' this post.
Ronald Francis was chosen secretary for 1955-56. He is a sophomore in AB from Toledo, 0. Francis topped Dan Miller in this race.
Elected treasurer in the balloting was William Shannon, a junior in commerce from Utica, N. Y. Jim Walsh and Ken Fromme opposed Shannon.
Approximately 115 members voted in the election.
The next concert scheduled for the Club is the annual Commencement program set for Saturday night, June 4 in the Navy Drill Hall.
The Club banquet, held each year at the conclusion of the school term, will take place on Thursday, June 2.
Seniors Revive Tradition With Banquet on Tuesday -w
Graduating seniors of the June and August classes and the January, 1956 class, who will attend the Senior ClassAlumni Association Banquet this Tuesday night will be reviving a tradition begun before World War II.
Prior to the war, it was the custom of the Alumni Association to fete the graduating seniors, introducing them to their new roles as Alumni Association members.
Suggested by the officers of the Senior £ Class this year, the banquet is being sponsored by the Alumni Association. This year’s banquet will be held in the east wing of the Dining Hall at 6:45 p.m.
Tickets for the banquet are available in the Alumni Office and can still be obtained tomorrow morning. No charge will be made.
A short program has been prepared for the entertainment of those attend- w ing. In addition, a guest speaker will highlight the evening affair. Officers of the Senior Class are handling the arrangements for the sirloin steak dinner.
Third Order Elections Set For Next Sunday Afternoon
The Third Order of ,St. Francis will hold their elections for next year’s officers Sunday in Dillon Hall.	f
Since the organization is under the sanction of Canon Law there can be absolutely no campaigning for the elections. Names will be recommended and the 80 members will cast open ballots.
The offices that will be vacated are those of prefect, now held by James Cantrill; vice prefect, George Dakoske; = master of novices, Frank Tonini; and j Robert McKenty, treasurer.	|
The Scholastic /
J
r
Swaying Prom couples attract the eye of band-leader Sam Donahue.
Aladdin
and Lasses
A Thousand and One Nights was one night in a thousand—an unforgettable experience for over 500 couples who jammed the Student Center last Friday night for the Junior Prom.
Dance-goers got a hint of what was to come even before they entered the Center. For rising near the front entrance was a palm-bedecked fountain, symbolic of the enchanting Arabian setting indoors. There the desert atmosphere was suggested by simulated beaded curtains and gold walls at the top of the main stairway. Presiding over the festivities was a massive genie spouting forth from an Aladdin’s lamp behind the orchestra stand.
At 9:30 p.m. a signal from maestro Sam.Donahue sent the Billy May orchestra into action. For the next four hours, Juniors and their dates danced to the sounds of May’s famed “slurping saxes.” Between numbers the Prom-goers descended to the Center’s newly renovated basement where refreshments were served from a temporary oasis. And during intermission, Miss Lois Youngem of Kent State University, date of Chairman Dave Granger, was crowned queen of the Prom.	•
Saturday activities were dampened by afternoon showers, but picked up fast for the evening dinnerdance at the South Bend Country Club—an affair almost as popular as the Prom itself. On Sunday morning, after Mass in Sacred Heart Church, many couples attended the traditional Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall. There they were welcomed by Father Joyce and entertained by Miss Fran Allison of television fame.
Shortly thereafter, the spell was broken . . . the couples parted . . . and a memorable weekend had ended. (Photos by John O’Brien)
Committee chairmen and dates descending main stairway.
Y'
unior-Class President Dan Devine, Miss Sally ! Hull, Prom Queen Louis Youngem, and Chairman Dave Granger.
For that pause that refreshes.
Aladdin's mighty genie scans the Billy Mays Band
A Thousand
Fountain in the moonlight.
Happy to oblige!

18
The Scholastic
Fun reigns supreme at the Country Club dinner-dance.
Till we meet again . . .
and One Nights...
Third-year men and their dates enjoying Prom-ending Communion Breakfast.
Gymnasium to ‘Garbage Can’*
Half-Century of Suave Senior Balls
j
By JIM O'SHEA
As some of us have already discovered, this is Senior Ball Weekend. For those not in the know, perhaps I’d better explain.
Senior Ball Weekend is that weekend of the Notre Dame school year which is dedicated to the pursuit of romance, moonlight, sunshine, sand dunes, fun, frolic, sweetness, Sen-Sen, and an advance on next month’s allowance.
The Senior Ball Weekend has several important functions as a Notre Dame institution. It (a) provides entertainment for over 600 girls who would otherwise be wandering aimlessly around the campus, (&) provides entertainment for over 600 seniors who would otherwise be creating quite a disturbance at the sight of 600 girls wandering aimlessly around the campus, (c) solves any problem created by a surplus of money in the campus economy, (d) proves that it will not be a cold day in hell when all seniors shave on the same day, and (e) acts as a general cure for all crops in the state of Indiana which are suffering from drought.
Many people believe that the Senior Ball is a very interesting event. Some people think that Notre Dame students are so interested in the Ball that they
No Phy-Ed Class Today.
would even go so far as to read about it. The editor of the Scholastic is one of these people. That is why I have to stay in tonight and write this article.
* * *
As you probably know if you looked at the cover of this magazine, the first Senior Ball was held at Notre Dame exactly fifty years ago. This was not a very big dance, first of all because we didn’t have any All-Americans in those days, and girls were unwilling to make the trip simply to go to a mid-western college dance. Secondly, we didn’t have very many students, either, so there wasn’t much sense in having a big dance.
The first Senior Ball was held in the apparatus room of the student’s gymnasium. We have no accurate historical data on the theme of the dance, but some believe that it might have been “Spring Fragrance.” I am told that the mats were removed from the gym floor to facilitate dancing, and that no wrestling was permitted in the room during the hours reserved for dancing.
Music for the dance was provided by Professor Peterson and his all-student orchestra. I am told that their selections were somewhat similar to those now played by Wayne King. Punch and cookies were served at the dance, and
everyone had a real swell time. Lovely Gibson girls tripped the light fantastic with mustachioed seniors, looking quite graceful as they pirouetted in and around the parallel bars.
All of this foolishness didn’t go over^ very well with the University Administration in those days, and the students really had to fight to keep the Ball going. Until 1910, all students were permitted to attend the dance, but then the University cracked down, and underclassmen were forbidden to participate in social affairs which required female companions. This was part of the general University policy regarding girls. Students were not ever permitted to visit St.^ Mary’s unless they had relatives there, so dates were almost impossible to come by. The Ball struggled admirably to keep itself alive during the decade leading up to the twenties, and barely managed to avoid annihilation.	-
With the end of World War I, however, things really started popping. The advent of Prohibition, short skirts, speakeasies, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and bath tub gin ushered in a new set of values for American youth, and Notre^ Dame, not wanting to be behind the ' times, also decided to go modern. Dancing was condoned! The Senior Ball had won a place in the Notre Dame social calendar.
This was the Golden Era as far as the Senior Ball was concerned. Notre Dame men, shining in bell-bottomed tuxedos, their- hair greased and parted in the middle, danced furious Charlestons with girls who tried to look likt^ they weren’t. Amateur Valentinos all > imported their particulai- Clara Bows, ? and romance blossomed in conversa- j tions that went something like this:	1
He: “Some dance.”	j
She: “Hotcha.”	$
He: “Real shiek.”	|
She: “Oh, you kid.”	|
He: “23 Skidoo’.”	j
She: “Oh, you shiek.”	\
Perhaps because they were a littld® bit frightened by such incomprehensible I babblings, the University officials be- < came even more lenient with the stu-1 dents. The Senior Ball developed into <
the social event of the year. The weekend began on Wednesday night, when a pre-Ball was held at the Chippendale room of the Oliver Hotel. On Thursday night, the real Ball came off at the Palais Royale (those were the days when there weren’t any bowling alleys). A

t i r.
20
The Scholastic^
bigger budget allowed the Ball Committee to hire a real orchestra, and ^‘name” bands came into fashion. In *923, the students thrilled to the music of Isham Jones and his Hot Licks. The ball bids cost $25.00 per couple and dancing continued until 3 a.m. On Friday night, there was anothei* dance and a Glee Club concert, and on Saturday, the troops took their girls to track meets and such things, while waiting for evening to come so that they could go to (oddly enough) another dance.
Weekends like this continued through ’"the twenties, and, in 1931, a new precedent was set when students were granted four o’clock residence permissions.
The onset of the depression had its effect on the Senior Ball, sadly enough, and there was a reactionary movement which succeeded in cutting the big weekend down from five to three days. There was a decline in imports during the early thirties, and St. Mary’s girls enjoyed a popularity they had never known before. Dance bands like Freddy Martin’s Orchestra, or the Fischer* World Fair Orchestra played at the Palais or the Indiana Club for seniors with empty pockets and girls whose skirts and hair had become suddenly longer, and blues music replaced the jazz of the 20’s.
The Ball made a quicker* recovery than the country did, however, and by 1939, things were really going great. Orchestras and budgets improved steadily, and, before World War II, the Ball had almost reached the status it once had during the twenties.
Pearl Harbor had a shattering effect on all of this rebuilding, however, and the Ball reached a new low when the great majority of Notre Dame students departed at U ncle Sam’s invitation. Only V-12 students and such were left to ^attend, and the shortage of men was so "great that music for one of the wartime Balls was provided by Phil Spitalny and his All-Girl Orchestra. In 1943, the campus was so sorely hit that there weren’t enough Seniors left to have a ball, and the juniors were invited in for the first (and last) Junior-Senior Prom. There was talk of getting Glen Miller for this affair, but Glen joined the army, and the committee had to settle for Ted FioRito at the Palais.
Although the war made the Senior Ball a rather quiet affair for the duration, the Navy detachment on campus did a great favor for future Balls. A new building known as the Navy Drill Hall was built during this period.
The Navy Drill Hall, as you know, is a long, low building on the east side of the campus which resembles half of a garbage can. During the greater part of the school year, the Navy Drill Hall
Oh, You Kid! •
is used by the Navy (would you believe it?) for the purpose of drilling. Once each year, however, the Navy is kind enough to let the Senior Class use the Drill Hall for the Senior Ball. Since the end of World War II, the Senior Class has become so large that there is no dance floor in South Bend big enough for the Ball. This created quite a problem until someone had the bright idea of simply not using a dance floor. Thus, the Drill Hall became the home of the Senior Ball. A great deal of money is spent each year by the Ball Committee, in an attempt to make the Drill Hall a beautiful place to have a dance. Every year, men work long and hard to build an almost entirely new interior in the Drill Hall, and their work is usually so good that Ball-goers cannot recognize the building. All this work is useless, however, as soon as the Ball is over, because the Navy seems to prefer the half-garbage can effect, and the decorations must be torn down. I guess that’s just the way the Ball bounces.
* * *
At the present time, the Senior Ball is going through another period of growth and development. Balls are getting better and better, it seems, and Notre Dame is once again approaching a Golden Era. Although it is impossible to say whether or not Ralph Marterie compares favorably with Isham Jones
and his Hot Licks, it is safe to say that the 1955 Senior Ball will be undoubtedly the best dance of the post-wai- era. As the 600 seniors cavort with their 600 dates in the atmosphere of the “Old South” Friday evening, we can look with nostalgia over the past history of all Senior Balls and see the extent to Which the dance has developed.
From a tiny social gathering, held in a decorated gymnasium, the Senior Ball has advanced to the point where it not only fulfills a social function, but also economic and agricultural functions as well. Although there may be some argument as to whether the Drill Hall is any better than the original gymnasium, there is no question that decorations have greatly improved, and I can definitely state that Ralph Marterie is equally as good, if not better, than Professor Peterson and his Music Majors. Undoubtedly, the Senior Ball can look forward to a great future. Perhaps, with some assistance from the Administration, we can someday arrive at another era of five day weekends and Isham Jones. At any rate, we are slowly and steadily advancing toward the $25.00 bid pi*ice once again.
But there I go drawing conclusions, and I said I wouldn’t. The only thing that we can definitely say about future Senior Balls is that they will definitely be very, very shiek.
21
^ay 1955
Annual Fish Contest Enthusiasm Is High
“The fishing contest this year is being participated in by greater numbers and with greater enthusiasm than ever before,” commented Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., director of the fishing contest sponsored by the Student Senate. “Hundreds of students brought back theii' equipment after Easter and have been making good use of it. I’m sure that the increase of interest over other years is due to the added incentive of a prize every week instead of just a grand prize as was previously awarded.”
Father Baldwin explained that the Senate gives a §5 prize every week between Easter and the end of the school year to the student who catches the longest bass, and then grand prizes of .$10 and $5 to those with the largest bass caught all season.
“All the fisherman has to do is put his name on a piece of paper and attach it to the fish and then put them in the box of Corby Halt . The contest runs from Sunday midnight to Sunday midnight,” Father said, “since the weekends are the best time to fish.” The fish are measured by Father Baldwin and every Monday morning the prize is awarded for the longest catch.
Good Boss Year
The winners of the first three contests this year all had bass measuring about 17 inches. The first week’s winner was Ken Buck, the second week resulted in a tie between Buck and J. Quetch, and the third prize was won by Lee Grim-ming.	■
“I personally have had the best luck of my life so far this year in bass fishing,” commented Father Baldwin. On April 26 he caught a seven pounder that measured just short of two feet. It is being preserved as a permanent specimen by the Department of Biology. All in all he has caught about a dozen this spring with six of them weighing over four pounds. .
Father Baldwin explained that since he fishes simply for the sport of it, he has always wanted to do something -with his catches besides eating them or letting them go. So about six weeks ago, with the cooperation of the Department of Biology, he fenced off twenty feet of St. Joseph’s Lake making a fish pen in which to put his bass.
“This not only makes a nice hobby,” he said, “but the Department of Biology studies these fish, the parasites that live on them, their diseases and habits. Even the skeletons are studied and their history and makeup are compared with those of other ages and places.”
22
Van de Graaff Scheduled for Fall Completion:. ’ Unit Generates Electrons for Atom Research d i
The Department of Physics hopes to complete the rebuilding of its new Van de Graaff generator by fall. The Van de Graaff is a source of high energy electrons of about four million volts and is one of the most powerful sources of X-rays known. It is used for research in the study of the interaction of electrons with various materials, and by this to gain valuable information about the nuclei of atoms and to study these nuclei.
At the present time the department operates a Van de Graaff in the annex behind the Student Center. This machine was originally built in 1940. During the war it was used for research purposes by the Manhattan Project which developed the atomic bomb. This original machine is still in fine operating condition. But when the Nieuwland Science Hall was built in 1950, it was decided to move the machine to the new building. Since the machine had to be torn down, it was also decided to incorporate into the new project all the many improvements that had been made since the original project was put into operation.
The Atomic Energy Commission became interested in the project and agreed to grant a large subsidy to help cover the cost of the moving and rebuilding. To house the new project an annex was built behind Nieuwland and the two buildings were connected by a ramp. The annex was constructed so that its floor is about five feet below ground level and its walls and roof are 30-inch-thick concrete. These precautions were taken for safety purposes.
The actual job of reconstruction, began around a year and a half ago under the direction of Dr. Bernard Waldman and Dr. Walter Miller. To enable the department to keep the original machine in operation as long as possible and not to interrupt present studies, all preliminary improvements are being made first. In particular, a new base plate is being constructed and is nearly completed.
Will Remove Annex Roof
When all the preliminary work is done, the roof will be torn off the Student Center annex. Then the large tank, which is bolted to the base plate, and other equipment from the old machine will be taken out and moved to the Nieuwland annex. This equipment will be lowered into the annex through a metal door in the back of this room. Then final construction will take place.
When the rebuilt Van de Graaff is ready for operation, the door in the back of the annex will be filled in with con
crete. This will leave the rampway as-the only entrance to the room. A maze.-will be constructed at this entrance to’ insure protection against possible injury. -An intricate warning system at this entrance will insure against entrance into _ the room while the machine is operating. .
No one could possibly survive in the. room while the machine is running, a
In order to run the machine a com- , plicated remote control system has been > set up with the control panels in Nieuwland proper. To permit the operator to view the operation of the machine, an industrial television camera will record what goes on and telecast it back to the control room.
The entire project when completed will be valued at around- $300,000. The research which the Department of Physics^ will then carry on will be jointly sponsored by the University, the Office of Naval Research, and the Atomic Energy Commission.
Zeder, Chrysler V-P, Speaks This Afternoon
James C. Zeder, vice-president in ’ charge of engineering of the Chrysler Corp., delivered the feature address this^ afternoon marking the opening of the"; annual Engineering Open House. The ; topic of Mr. Zeder’s lecture was “The j Future of the Engineer.”	’
A former president of the Society of I Automotive Engineers, Zeder is present- ? ly chairman of the engineering board at -1 -Chrysler.	•
Zeder graduated from the University J of Michigan in 1922 with a B.S. degree ; in mechanical engineering, and im-^ mediately went to work in Detroit with j-the Maxwell Motor Co. Four months later he left Maxwell to become a drafts-;; man for. the Handley Knight Motoi- Co/
In 1924 he rejoined Maxwell as an; engineer in the mechanical laboratory/.; and soon was made head of the labora-f tory. Zeder was with the company when;, it became Chrysler Corp, in June, 1925, * 11 and was made chief engineer of the new- 1 ■ ly-formed Plymouth and DeSoto divi-v i sions in 1928.	V ■
Zeder played a major role in the J ■ founding of the Chrysler Institute of. n Engineering in 1931, and was entrusted j B with its organization and development. | He continued as a member of the Board? B of Trustees of the Institute, and in 1947g ■ he became its president, a post he has|B held ever since.	|| ■,
In 1950, Zeder was elected national^ ■. president of the Society of Automotive I
The Scholastt& 'l
, Engineers, and served for a one-year erm. He is a member of the finance
I v^^mmittee of the National Council of the
BFsae.
He was chairman and is now an active ; member of the executive committee of the Engineering Advisory Committee of the Automobile Manufacturers Association.
' In recognition of his engineering , achievements, Zeder was chosen Charles Edgar Hoyt lecturer in 1951 by the American Foundrymen’s Society.
*ND Red Cross Group Ends Year's Activities
The Notre Dame Campus Activities Unit of the American Red Cross today terminated its volunteer program for the current school year, announced Public Relations Director Ron Herman. The program will be resumed next fall if a ^need is indicated.
® The volunteer program has been operated in conjunction with the St. Mary’s College unit. Over 250 manhours of work have been contributed by 60 or 70 students from both schools.
The Notre Dame unit was first conceived last October 30 at the Campus Activities Conference held at Earlham College in Richmond, Ind. During the following month tentative working plans and proposed activities were drawn up. Shortly thereafter both the Notre Dame V and St. Mary’s units received official sanction from their governing bodies.
On January 10 the unit began its active program with the initiation of the volunteer-air project at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital. A volunteer sports program was begun at the Children’s Aid ;Society in Mishawaka on March 27. This project was later turned over to the Physical Education, Club. ^This club plans to have a full program "set up for the fall.
Officers were elected for the 1955-56 school year at a meeting of the unit held last week. They are: Jim Shumaker, chairman; Manny Rivas, vice-chairman; || Bill Scanlon, secretary, and Ron Her-i man, public relations director.
1 The past and present chairmen of the Notre Dame unit, along with representatives from the St. Mary’s unit, will attend an organizational meeting of the ^Indiana Campus Activities Units at Ind-i ianapolis, on May 21. The purpose of |	the meeting is to draw up plans for the
|	annual Activities Conference to be held
I in the fall.
The executives of the unit expressed satisfaction with the accomplishments of the past year and anticipate an even 7 more successful activity during next t ' year. A membership drive will be held either late this year or early next fall.
jMay 13, 1955
Don't Forget Your Kid Brother!
Get Him “THE CATHOLIC BOY” 48 pages every month-chock full of sports, fiction, adventure, comics. Published at Notre Dame. “
THE CATHOLIC BOY
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send the Catholic Boy
To: .................................................—------
Name
Street and Number
City	Zone	State
My Name ....................................................
Address and City
23
□ 1 year —$2.50
□ 2 years — $4.50
□ 3 years — $6.00
$2.50
TOM CAPLET, PAUL LaFRENIERE, AND CARL MARTERSTECK: OPTIMISTIC
Plans Already Underway for Fall Freshman Orientation Program
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
Charcoal-Filtered for Mildness
PRODUCT OF
Martersteck Grasps | I Reins of Blue Circle m
Karl Martersteck has been elected the \ 1955-56 chairman of the Blue Circle. | Martersteck, a junior majoring in phy- < sics, has been a member of the Circle ; , since the latter part of his freshman year. He has served as president of the Cleveland Club and was also chairman of the Who’s Who committee. Besides being active on numerous other Blue Circle committees, Martersteck is£ also a NROTC regular. Martersteck takes over the Blue Circle gavel from out-going chairman John O’Meara.
Caplet, LaFreniere Are Aides
Tom Caplet assumes the duties of vice-chairman. Caplet, a Chicagoan, is a j'unior majoring in mechanical engineering with an industrial option. He, like Martersteck, has been a member of
the Circle since the end of his freshman $ year. This year he has served as chairman of the Circle’s ushering committee. Caplet succeeds George Carhart in the vice-chairmanship position.
Paul LaFreniere will fill the post of secretary-treasurer. LaFreniere, a junior from Marquette, Mich., is an accounting major. Besides his work on numerous Circle committees LaFreniere has been active on the Scholastic. He has served as copy editor this year and will be associate editor next year. LaFren- ^ iere takes over the secretary-treasurer" post from Forst Brown.
Martersteck announced the chairmen of two committees that will operate early in the 1955-56 school year. George Krembs, a Merrill, Wis., sophomore, will handle the chairmanship for the 1955 Freshman Orientation program committee. Dave Collins, a junior hailing from Oak Park, Ill., will head the student football trip committee.
‘SCHOLASTIC’ HONORS
The SCHOLASTIC recently received an All-American honor rating award for the fall semester from the Associated Collegiate Press and National Scholastic Press Association. The award ranks SCHOLASTIC among the top collegiate newsmagazines in the country.
Various publication phases of the magazine received the top ratings of “excellent.” They included character of magazine, editorial content, illustrative content, editing and layout, and production factors.
The SCHOLASTIC has now been ,. awarded the All-American rating , for the past five semesters.	4 Al
24
The SchoiasticiSj

Scholastic Sports
OLD-TIMERS TEST ‘NEW’ VARSITY TOMORROW
Power Hitting Brings Wins Over Service Nines As Irish Face Great Lakes, Purdue at Home
The Notre Dame baseball team will return to Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. for a return game with Great Lakes Naval Station, after finishing a successful road trip of two victories and one defeat.
On Tuesday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. the Irish will play host to Purdue. The Irish will be out to avenge their close 3-2 loss last week to the Boilermakers, who have slipped to eighth place in the Big Ten standings.
On Wednesday the Irish will travel to East Lansing to face Michigan .State, who is currently in a tie for fourth place in the Big Ten. The Spartans have been led by the pitching of Dick Idzkowski and the slugging of Chuck Matthews and Jim Sack.
Wisconsin edged out the Irish, 6-4, Tuesday afternoon at Madison. Lefty Dick Bunker experienced a rough first inning in which the Badgers picked up
OUTFIELDERS JACK O’DROBINAK, DAN NESPO, AND BILL TESCHKE
Fattened Up on Great Lakes and Glenview Over Weekend
three runs and a lead they never relinquished.
Center fielder Dan Nespo rapped his third homer in four contests to pace ND in the loss. Nespo has hoisted his former .105 average to a respectable .296 in the past four games with his robust long ball clouting.
Wisconsin choked off a ninth inning rally when a sizzling liner off the bat of Jack O’Drobinak was turned into a twin killing.
The loss cut the Irish winning streak at two straight.
The Irish broke out in a rash of base hits against service teams last weekend to give Coach Jake Kline the power he has been looking for. Every starter contributed to the bombardments, but Kline lost his leading hitter, third baseman Don Sniegowski, for the rest of the season Sunday when he broke his arm
(Continued on Page 29)
Annual Spring Classic Set for School Field
By JOHN GLAVIN
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish will bring their spring football drills to a close in preparation for their 67th grid season at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow at School Field in South Bend when the current varsity outfit faces a group of graduating seniors and a number of great Notre Dame stars of the past.
School Field is located on Eddy St. between Jefferson School and the Grand
LINEUP
Varsity	Old-Timers
Prendergast .....LE...... Shannon Martell ................. LT... Palumbo
Bisceglia .....LG_________   Cook
Mense ...........C..... Szymanski
Francis..........RG_____ Pasquesi
Edmonds ........—RT... Varrichione Scannell ..................RE.  Matz
Hornung .......QB...... Gugliefmi
Morse...........LH.........  Heap
Wilkins .......RH.........  Carey
Schaefer.......FB........  Landry
Game time: 1:30 p.m.
School Field, South Bend.
Trunk Ry. for those who have private transportation.
Shuttle busses will leave the Circle for School Field, beginning at 12:30 p.m. The busses will operate until 1:15. Busses will be available after the game for the return trip direct to campus. The teams will take the field at 12:45 p.m.
For the first time since the Stadium
was opened in 1930, the game has been switched to a different site. The Stadium turf is being resodded, and so the game has been switched to the largest local playing field.
With a tough schedule slated for next fall, there are still many questions to be answered. Except for Ray Lemek, Terry Brennan, sophomore grid mentor, lost the complete starting line which led the Irish through a 9-1 season last fall. Lemek, Captain-elect for the ’55 season,
25
RALPH GUGLIELMI
The "Head” Will Be Back
missed the spring drills because of a leg injury and he will not play. The whole squad had been hit hard all spring by the usual number of injuries which has added to Brennan’s woes.
Brennan notes that, “We lost eight regulars and a ninth, Captain Ray Lemek, has been unable to participate while recovering from a knee operation, and therefore we know what to expect this spring. But the attitude of the squad has been fine.”
When asked how this year’s team compared to last year’s at the same stage, Brennan answered, “We are far, far behind last year’s club. We haven’t had enough playing experience.” He added that, “We should give the Old Timers a real good game.”
Line Still Unproven
The starting line consists of five lettermen and two unproven sophomores. Jim Mense, who took over for Dick Szymanski in midseason, will start at center. Pat Bisceglia has nailed down the right guard position while at the other guard will be sophomore Al Francis. At left tackle will be Gene Martell and his running mate at the other tackle will be hard charging Wayne Edmonds, who has spent many afternoons in the opposition’s backfield.
Trying to uphold Notre Dame’s reputation of turning out great ends will be Bob .Scannell and sophomore Dick Prendergast.
A great share of the load, though, will fall upon the shoulders of quarterback Paul Hornung. He must fill the shoes of All-American Ralph Guglielmi and make Brennan’s split-T offense work to perfection.
The fullback and the left halfback slots will be filled by two seasoned vet-
Saturday's Big Home Sports Schedule
FOOTBALL
1:30 p.m.
Old-Timers Game _____________________________________School Field
BASEBALL
2 p.m.
Great Lakes _________________________________________Cartier Field
TRACK
1 p.m.
Pittsburgh ...............................          Cartier	Field
GOLF
9 and 1 p.m.
Indiana Intercollegiate Championships__Burke Memorial Golf Course (Indiana, Purdue, and Notre Dame)
erans. Fullback Don Schaefer has looked good all spring and could be one of the best in the nation next fall. Fleet Jim Morse will run from the halfback spot.
Brennan is still undecided about his other halfback spot. He will probably choose from the quartet of Dick Wilkins, Aubrey Lewis, Paul Reynolds, and Sherrill Sipes. Wilkins and Lewis are both sophomores.
Besides the 14 graduating seniors, the Old-Timers squad tentatively has such stars as Johnny Lattner, Minnie Mav-raides, Tom McHugh, Jim Martin, and freshman coach, Jack Landry.
End coach Johnny Druze will handle the Old-Timers and indicates he will probably start the backfield which led the Irish to an unbeaten season in ’53. This would mean that Ralph Guglielmi would start at quarterback, Joe Heap and Lattner at the halves, and McHugh at fullback.
The starting line will most likely con
“OLD McBRENNAN HAD A FARM”
This Is Why They Are Playing in School Field
sist of the same players which started last fall with one exception. Dan Shannon and Paul Matz will staid; at the ends with Sam Palumbo and Frank Var-f richione at the tackles. Mavraides may~ hold down one guard slot, with Ed Cook and Tony Pasquesi also on call. Big Dick Szymanski will start his first game at center since his injury in mid-season last fall.	.
Brennan will loan many of his reserves to the Old-Timers for second-half duty.
The Old-Timers game was started years ago by Knute Rockne to provide color for the windup of the spring ses-^ sion. Bob Lehman, President of the ‘ Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley which is sponsoring the event, said that if good weather prevails, a crowd of about 15,000 will be on hand for this annual classic. Proceeds from the game will be used to provide scholarships for local students.
26

WAYNE EDMONDS “The Most Speed and Savvy”
by Paul Fullmer
The combined football, baseball, track, and golf squads will present one of the biggest sports weekends of the year tomorrow afternoon, but it would take a Houdini to take in each event. Due to peculiar scheduling, the track, baseball, and football contests will clash and you will have to take your pick.
Jake Kline’s nine snapped out of its hitting doldrums last weekend and clobbered Great Lakes and Glenview. The starters will get another shot at Great Lakes tomorrow afternoon and the sailors should provide some mighty fancy batting practice for the youthful Irish. Kline will be without Don Snie-gowski, whose .372 average will be missed until next year because of a broken arm. Kline had shuttled “Snieg” to the mound earlier in the year, but the junior found his stride at third and paced the sophomore-studded inner defense.
The odd quirk in tomorrow’s schedule will give the tracksters a tough break. Coach Alex Wilson’s squad has its lone home dual meet tomorrow with
Pitt, an outfit that features Arnie Sowell, one of the top stars in America.
Father Holderith’s linksters should have a keen battle with Indiana and Purdue for the Indiana Intercollegiate championships tomorrow on the home course, but only the died-in-the-wool ex-caddies will be out to follow the “pros” around.
Old-Timers Should Help Answer the Questionmarks
Terry Brennan will have his fingers crossed at School Field when his young charges face the starting lineup that John Druze has tentatively lined up for the annual Old-Timers classic. There would be doubt of the outcome if the Old-Timers were in shape and had practiced for a week, but the veterans don’t always regard the game as anything more than a vigorous 15-minute workout.
The 1955 schedule looms as a bigger threat every time Brennan oversees a practice session. It appears that the season will only be a success if Brennan can groom a “hungry” team that is upset-minded. The backfield could be one of the tops in the nation IF Paul Hornung can pass effectively and improve his ball-handling. IF Paul Reynolds shakes his ills and regains his pre-injury form. IF Jim Morse continues his late-season improvement. IF Don Schaefer can keep his average as a “marked man.” IF either Aubrey Lewis or Dick Wilkins develops into top-flight timber.
The line is spotty, although it could be tough if Gene Kapish and Captain Ray Lemek return to form. Al Francis and Dick Prendergast are the only two sophs who have looked like starters this spring. Pat Bisceglia and Jim Mense have been solid performers in drills, while Bob Scannell and Gene Martell have been adequate in the line. Wayne Edmonds, the veteran smoothie who specializes in smothering quarterbacks as quick as a whistle, brings the most speed and savvy into play. He could be the bellwether of the “mules” next fall if his knee doesn’t conk out.
We’re counting on the Old-Timers to have that middle-age spread when they report to Druze tomorrow and the hustling varsity should come out on top, 20-13.
Sailors Invade Ohio For Midwestern Title
The Notre Dame Sailing Club will | compete in the Midwestern Sailing ’ championships this Saturday and Sunday at Columbus, Ohio. The Irish won the right to represent area ‘B’ when they sailed to a first place win in the eliminations at Ann Arbor, Mich, in April.
The top two teams at Columbus will represent the Midwest in the national^ championships at Kings Point, N. Y., June 20-23. Other colleges competing this weekend will be Michigan, Ohio State, Ohio Wesleyan, Cincinnati, Wisconsin, Marquette, and Purdue.
Probable skippers for the Irish this weekend will be Commodore Ray Nelson. Pete Raffetto. Ron Meisner, Bernie D’Almeida, and Tim Rice.
Last weekend, the Irish played host to a new type of race within the col-^ legiate ranks when they held an Invitational Snipe Regatta at Diamond Lake. Mich. They also continued to uphold their reputation as one of the Midwest’s top sailing crews as they took first place with 26 points. Purdue was second with 22; while Wooster and Fenn tied for third with 18. Wayne and Oberlin also competed.
Seven races were scheduled for Saturday, ' but due to the inclement weather, only three were held. Joe Corcoran took^ a first and a third and Bernie D’Almeida also sailed to a first place win. At the end of the first day of racing the Irish led Purdue by three points. 19-16.
D’Almeida took a first place win in the first race on Sunday, but high winds caused a broken tiller on one of the snipes, and officials decided to cancel the rest of the dav’s racing. The officials then declared Notre Dame the regatta champion.
Chi. Club Softball Race Tight; j Playoffs Slated for May 16-19 i
With two more games left on the' schedule, the Chicago Club softball' championship is still undecided. J
Including games of May 10, Jack ■ Stephens’ club is leading the league with five victories and no losses. Tied for. second with four wins and one los;^ apiece are Bob Wing’s club and Dick Beeman’s outfit.
There will be a four-team playoff May 16-19. Jerry Hillsman’s club and Frank Burke’s team are still1 battling for the fourth playoff spot. Each has three wins and three losses.
On Tuesday, Stephens’ team took un-disputed possession of first place when I it defeated Wing’s club. Jack Feeley! hurled a two-hitter in the 19-1 win.i!
The ScholastidO^
2S
^Five Road Matches on Tap for Tennis Team; r Clarke, Reidy Out to Retain Doubles Prestige
The Notre Dame tennis team is now heading into the home stretch of its current season with five of its remaining six matches to be played on foreign courts.
This afternoon, the Irish netters will face the University of Michigan at Ann ^Arbor, and will finish off a two-game "road jaunt tomorrow by challenging another Big Ten rival, Michigan State, at East Lansing.
Next Tuesday the Irish will perform in their last home match of the season, meeting a highly-touted Western Michigan crew. Following this contest, Coach Charlie Samson’s squad will end its 1955 campaign on the road playing the Universities of Chicago, Northwestern, ^and Iowa on Thursday, Friday, and "Saturday of next week, respectively.
Of the six remaining teams on Notre Dame’s schedule, Coach Samson indicated that “Michigan and Western Michigan are strongest personnel-wise and will have an edge. However,” he continued, “we will certainly be out there to get revenge for the 6-3 losses they pinned on us last season.”
Michigan is equipped with two of the top netters in the midwest in Barry McKay and Mike Jaffee, while Western ^Michigan boasts a lineup which includes the present eastern intercollegiate doubles champs, Jim Farrell and Bob Donnelly. Consequently, in the match against Western Michigan, Notre Dame’s great doubles combination of Maury Reidy and Wally Clarke might finally meet their match in what should prove to be a tight battle.
Coach Samson rates Notre Dame’s ^ihances against Michigan State, Chicago, Northwestern, and Iowa as good,
Earley Signs With Toronto; Brennan Seeks Replacement
Veteran football coach Bill Earley signed last week as backfield coach for the Toronto Argonauts. He will finish his Notre Dame tenure tomorrow afternoon when the Irish complete spring drills in the annual Old-Timers contest. F Earley and John Druze are the only two holdovers from Frank Leahy’s 1953 staff.
The lucrative Canadian salary was too much for Earley to pass up. Earley has five children and remarked that, “You just can’t pass up that sort of money when you have a family to raise.”
Earley will assist Bill Siwacki with the Toronto team.
Coach Terry Brennan has not yet .named a replacement for Earley.
May 13, 1955
“although,” he states, “any one of them is capable of giving us trouble, especially Northwestern, who has the Big Ten singles champion, Bob Kuehn.”
The Irish nudged Wisconsin on Tuesday afternoon on the home courts, 5-4. Maury Reidy and Wally Clarke took the first doubles match to wrap up the contest.
Clarke, Reidy, Harry Smith, and Dean Richards won their singles matches to provide a solid lead that the Badgers couldn’t overcome with their final two doubles triumphs.
On Thursday and Friday of last week, the Notre Dame netters notched a pair of wins by ripping Cincinnati and Detroit 7-2 and 8-1, respectively. These
REIDY AND CLARKE
Solid Senior Doubles Team
wins boosted the Irish season mark to 7-3.
Against Cincinnati, Irish netters Wally Clarke, Captain Maury Reidy, Harry Smith, Bill Reale, and Dean Richards each copped their singles matches although Reidy, Reale, and Richards all were forced to play three sets to win.
Reidy and Wally Clarke continued their unbeaten doubles record against Midwest competition by overpowering their opponents in two straight sets, 6-0, 6-4.
In the match with Detroit, the Notre Dame team nearly turned the meeting into a complete rout as they swept the singles, five of the six in only two sets. Following this, Clarke and Reidy, as a doubles team, won easily in two straight sets, 6-2, 6-0. However, the Titans garnered the final point by winning the second doubles match, thus preventing a shutout victory for the Irish.
DON SNIEGOWSKI A Broken Arm and Big Loss
Baseball
(Continued from Page 25) against Glenview in a collision at first base. Sniegowski had paced the Irish all season in the offensive department, bowing out with a .372 average.
Last Saturday Coach Kline saw some of the hitting that he had been lacking in the last few games as the Irish swamped Great Lakes, 10 to 4. Ron Mottl went the distance for the Irish, striking out twelve and walking six while yielding nine hits.
First baseman Jim Cusack led the twelve hit attack with a home run, double, and single, which were good for four RBI’s. Bill Teschke, Elmer Ko-horst, and Mottl cracked out two hits each in backing up Cusack’s offensive attack.
The Irish iced the game by scoring seven runs in the foui-th inning on three doubles, two singles, and two Great Lakes errors. Dan Nespo, Teschke and Sniegowski contributed the doubles, while Cusack and Mottl collected singles.
The Klinemen ripped the weak Glenview nine last Sunday, 10-0. Senior right hander Bernie McCIorey had the range and fanned 13 in his six inning stint. McCIorey also connected for a grand slam homer in the six-run seventh inning.
McCIorey allowed only two hits during his chore and the sailors picked up their third and last hit in the seventh off Gerry Spaeth. .
The Irish pounded out twelve safeties off two Glenview hurlers. Nespo homered in the sixth and Hurley backed up McCIorey in the seventh with a round tripper with one man on base.
Sniegowski went out in the fifth after notching two out of three in the hitting department.
29
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate ☆ '
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” la Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
* 1.30
Joe Nabiclit’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Walsh Overtakes Morrissey in Blue League; Milwaukee, Detroit Clash in City-State Loop
By BOB PARNELL	Mr. Maxwell believes that, “much of
Rasmussen MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Your
AFTER SIX Formal Wear
32.50
University of Detroit TUYERE John W. Skelley
The interhall softball standings remained status quo this week expect for the Blue circuit, where Walsh Hall has zipped into the lead. Behind their ace righthander Jim Irwin, Walsh broke a first place deadlock with a 12-5 victory over Morrissey last Friday.
The margin of victory was in no small way due to experience. Walsh possesses one of the league’s finest chuckers in speedballing Irwin, who has permitted only three earned markers in four completed games. On the other side of the ledger, first baseman Dick Beeman has established himself among the leading run producers in the softball circuit.
The most interesting race is being staged in the City-State loop where Milwaukee leads the pack with a 4-0 record, followed by Detroit 3-0, and Texas 3-1. This past week, Milwaukee blasted the Rochester mound staff for a 14-3 decision and then edged Walsh in a slugfest, 12-11. Meanwhile, Detroit was besting Texas, 7-4, to maintain a half game advantage.
Mr. Maxwell believes that, “today’s Milwaukee-Detroit scrap should decide the race, but keep a watchful eye on that Texas team. They might cause some trouble before this battle is over.”
On paper, however, Milwaukee has both the pitching and hitting. Norm Heying has pitched a no-hitter, one-hitter, two-hitter, and three-hitter, while his teammates have practically annihilated the enemy pitching. Shortstop Tom Mulcahy is currently the hottest sticker in the league with twelve hits in 15 trys.
In the Gold league, the race is tightening up with Walsh (3-0) now pressing Alumni (4-0) for the lead. Walsh scored two more victories this past week, while Alumni remained idle. They whipped Lyons, 5-1, and decisioned Off-Campus by default.
In the Green circuit, first place Morrissey (4-0) has had a profitable week, tripping Sorin from the undefeated ranks, 12-5, and then watching Badin trounce the latter, 11-4. Badin has now slipped into second place with a 2-1 record, having lost a 7-6 decision to Morrissey earlier in the season.
In the Club league, the Italian and K. of C. teams came through with two victories this past week, and currently post records of 4-0 and 4-1, respectively. This is the fourth season the Italian team has played together as a group, having formerly played under the auspices of hall organizations.
the credit for the success of this team is due to Don Sileo who has been the main force behind organizing the squad.” Among the outstanding personnel on the Italian club is slugging third baseman Bob Kunze, who has hit for the circuit twice in four games. Italiai-V hurling ace Dave Scheele has allowed only four earned runs in three routegoing performances.
Hall Baseball Finals To Start Wednesday
The league pennant races in the dualleague interhall baseball series have quickly developed into two-team contests^ in each league.
The championships between the two leagues to determine a single winner will begin next Wednesday and end a week from Sunday.
In the East League, Sorin and Walsh are tied for first with 3-0 records.
Sorin, managed by Tom Caplet, defeated Zahm Gold, Cavanaugh Green by forfeit, and Cavanaugh Blue. Walsh, in gaining their perfect mark, toppled over Cavanaugh Green, 16-1, Zahm Gold, 13-1~ and Badin by forfeit. The batteries foi" the Walsh squad in the Cavanaugh game were Maury Cicciarelli, pitcher, and Ray Kennedy, catcher. In the Zahm Gold contest, Cicciarelli again went the distance for the win for Walsh, with little Jack Murray behind the plate.
In some other games in the East League, Zahm Gold beat Badin, 3-1. Don Roney was the winning hurler, with Zahm manager Bud McGivern doing theg catching. Also, Badin defeated Cavanaugh Blue by forfeit.
Rounding out the East League, with a week of games left to play: Sorin and' Walsh are in first place with 3-0 rec-, ords; Zahm Gold, Cavanaugh Green, and Badin are all knotted for third place,-, each sporting a 2-1 mark; and Cav-> anaugh Blue is in the cellar with three; defeats.
As for the West League, the leaders are Dillon and Alumni with 3-0 record^) The Dillon nine, managed by Don Rei-ger, gained victories over Breen-Phillips, 11-8, the LaRaza Club, and Zahm Blue. Alumni, on the other hand, whipped Cavanaugh Gold, 13-4, Breen-Phillips, and Zahm Blue. John Hamilton performed the pitching chores for Alumni in their victories.
With a few games to be made up and a week left to play of the regular season, Dillon and Alumni are in the top spot holding 3-0 marks.	/
The Scholastic^
30
I
racks+ers Face PiH Mn Lone Home Meet
A rocky plane trip and a rainy, muddy field were against the Irish at Columbia, Mo., last Saturday as they bowed 88 to 43 to a first-class Missouri track team in the season’s first outdoor dual meet. Notre Dame was only able to win four of the 15 events.
Tomorrow Pittsburgh visits Notre ame in the season’s only home outdoor
meet beginning at 1 p.m. The Panthers, sparked by versatile Arnie Sowell, should give the Irish a good battle. Sowell, who competed in the Pan-American games, works in the mile, quarter mile, broad jump, or wherever the coach needs him, but his best event is the half mile. Coach Alex Wilson of Notre Dame calls Sowell “the greatest half miler in the ^country.”
At Missouri the pole vault and the high jump were held indoors due to the heavy rain. Inside Notre Dame’s Bernie Allard could only manage 6 feet 1% inches in the high jump, but still won the event. He also finished first in the javelin with a toss of 158 feet 9 inches, and third in the high hurdles.
Despite the wet track, fleet Billy Squires ran a fast mile, winning for Notre Dame in 4:16.9. The race was very close with Lynn Romann of Mis-Obouri giving the Irish miler a battle all the way, but Squires turned back the challenger with a good finishing kick and went on to win.
Alex Pestrichella grabbed Notre Dame’s only other first in the 100-yard dash, winning in :10.2.
Annual Interhall Track Meet ^Scheduled for Cartier Sunday
The annual Interhall Track Meet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Physical Education Club, will be held this Sunday at Cartier Field, beginning with the 120-yard hurdles and field event finals, as well as the trials for the running events at 10 a.m. Finals for the running events will begin at 2:30 p.m. Medals will be awarded to the first three men and the winning relay team.
Anyone may enter the meet except ormer or present members of the var-
sity track squad. One man may compete in as many as three field events and two running events, but if he runs in the relay he is eligible for only one other running event. To enter, a student must report at Cartier Field about 15 minutes before the meet starts. Track shoes may be worn.
In the three field events, the high jump, broad jump, and shot put, a new system of scoring will be tried. The ^May 13, 1955
total efforts of the three participants will be used instead of individual marks. This way a team with one good man won’t have an advantage over a team with several mediocre men. Scoring will be 5:3:2:1 with 10:5:2 for the relay.
Schedule for the afternoon events: 2:30—100-yard dash 2:35—Mile run 2:45—440-yard run 2:50—220-yard run 2:55—880-yard run 3:00—880-yard relay
s
UNITED AIR COACH
Irish, Purdue, Indiana Tangle for State Honors
The golf team will be out after an important twin victory tomorrow afternoon when it tangles with Purdue and Indiana in the Indiana Intercollegiate championship on the Burke Memorial course.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., veteran golf mentor, notes that, “We now face the toughest part of our schedule.” The Irish linksmen will host Michigan State, Detroit, and Iowa on May 16, 19, and 21, respectively after tomorrow’s triangular duel.
Father Holderith’s prediction is verified when comparative scores are noted. Michigan State walloped Detroit, the Motormen drubbed Northwestern, and the Wildcats downed ND.
The linksters dropped a tight, 15-12, decision to Northwestern last Saturday at Evanston. This defeat brought the Irish record to a 3-2 level.
The golfers lost the morning best ball and the afternoon singles in a strong wind by respective scores of 5%-3J4 and 9%-8%.
The Wildcats’ Tull Monsees fired a two over par 73 for the top 18 hole round. Chuck Gordon’s 78 was low for Notre Dame. Father Holderith hopes that the home course will see his squad return to form.
Summaries:
Singles
Rudy Boyd [NU], 81, tied Bob Fili-piak [ND], 81, 1% to l’/2; Tull Monsees [NU], 78, beat John Foley [ND], 79, 2% to Horie Weyburg [NU], 78, tied Charles Gordon [ND], 78, 1% to 1%; Bob Opeka [NU], 77, beat Felix Park [ND], 81, 2 to 1; Leo Matt [ND], 82, beat Art Buller [NU], 87, 2 to 1; Sam Merra, [ND], 82, beat Barry Burdick [NU], 83, 2 to 1.
Best Ball
Boyd and Weyburg [NU], 71, beat Filipiak and McGuire [ND], 75, 3 to 0; Monsees and Opeka [NU], 68, beat Foley and Matt [ND], 72, 2% to Park and Gordon [ND], 70, beat Ault-man and Bullerd [NU], 75, 3 to 0.
i
You’re home in hours!
You’re money ahead!
g
£
United’s low fares, fast flights and frequent schedules help stretch vacation days and dollars. All flights on 4-engine Mainlihers.

s
' 1ST CLASS
United also offers
you
8
%
luxurious 1st Class Mainliner service with full-course mealtime service. Fares comparable to 1st Class rail with berth.
&
UNITED-^
South ttid: for reservation!, call 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
QUETICO-SUPERIOR Canoe Trips Only $5.50 per person per day for complete camping equipment, aluminum canoes and food supplies. Write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Box 757C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minn.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J/4.5. Bldg.
31
Better tennis
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
for you starts right here . ..
The confidence you need to keep up your game is built right into this fine Spalding racket.
The Spalding KRO-BAT® delivers all the “feel” for better control and accuracy. It's built to take power serves and smashes, and give you top performance.
Buy the KRO-BAT in your own weight and grip size. Just one set will tell you... this is your year for better tennis.
32
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
JEWELERS

126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Flamingo Manrait
610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
Tuesday and Thursday SPECIAL ON T-BONE STEAK
Dedicated to Mary	"1
(Continued from Page 13)	’
statue has remained unchanged.	I
Yet it is not only by outdoor shrines that we show honor to Mary. There is for example the Ave Maria Press started by Father Sorin 90 years ago to publish a weekly Catholic periodical that would add further glorification to the name of Mary.
Not only does the press bear Mary's name but many of the campus publica'J tions do as well. Besides the Ave Maria, there is the Notre Dame magazine and the Juggler—named after the French Marian legend of the juggler of Notre Dame. Even the yearbook, The Dome, is named indirectly in her honor.
There is also the Our Lady chapel in Sacred Heart church dedicated especially to the Blessed Virgin.
In this chapel, added to the church in 1886, one feature predominates—th J three-century-old golden altar by Bernini, the only example of his work in this country. Carved pelicans form the center of its base and the tabernacle is malachite. Above the tabernacle, golden cherubs support the crucifix of olive wood.
Above the altar, in the niche, stands a six foot statue of the Blessed Virgin. Originally a solid gold crown inlaid with precious stones was hung above it. But the crown, a gift of the EmpresJ Eugenie, wife of Napoleon III, was removed during the chapel’s renovation.
To Find the Answer . . .
Here it is that Notre Dame stands today a realization of the dream Father Sorin had as he wrote in 1844. “When this school, Our Lady’s school, shall grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that -without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. T£ that lovely Lady, raised high on a dome,' a Golden Dome, man may look and find the answer.”	£
And so we have succeeded here. From a single college building we have grown to nearly sixty, covering a campus of 1,700 acres, with Mary our queen and our guide.	f
DEVELOPMENTAL READING t PROGRAM
Any student who is interested in j applying for the elective course in J developmental reading may regis- j ter any afternoon with Mr. R. D. I Willemin, director, in Room 240 of ; the Main Building, during the re- £ mainder of the semester.	f.
Applications will be accepted for^ the coming summer session the fall semester.
The
'The Week'
(Continued from Page 5)
®^ur now-famous posts which border all our walks ... I thought they were to protect the grass, but this particular crew drove their five ton track across the grass and parked it there while they installed the posts ... it seems that another such vehicle (still unidentified by the WEEK detective agency) uprooted just a few of these gems near the Huddle . . . it’s gonna’ be a year round J|ob keeping those jobbies in the ground!
The Jab of the Week
The girl at a nearby (not too near) school who received a letter yesterday suggesting that she not come down for the Senior- Ball . . . seems that a local Don Juan made a trip to the Woods recently and made a new acquaintance . . . decided to cancel his previous commitments . . . that’s the way the ball jounces.
Vale!
In parting, we’d like to drop a few lines of thanks around the place ... to the editors . . . who let us ran the Grace Kelly story ... to everybody here at ND, who have made four years some-• thing that will look like fun as soon as we’re fifty miles away on June 6 ... to all the profs that passed us . . . with hopes that there’ll be six more to add to ^the list come finals . . . and to you, *^ang . . . thanks for reading this far.
Bottom of the WEEK
... to write the WEEK.
Beeman, Bergquist Awarded Speech Dept. Radio Plaques
Dick Beeman and Jim Bergquist received the annual Department of Speech ^Kadio awards at Radio Station WNDU’s annual banquet May 5, according to information recently released.
Beeman, a senior speech major from River Forest, HL, is the retiring station manager of WNDU. Bergquist is a history major from Council Bluffs, la., and is the retiring program director of the radio station.
Plaques were presented to the two radio men by Mr. Jerome Fallon of the Department of Speech. Fallon is the faculty moderator of WNDU.
Bernard Barth, manager of WNDU-TV, delivered the main talk following the banquet. He and several of his assistants reported on the progress being made in constructing the station’s studio, transmitter building and tower.
Fathers Joyce, Norton, Sheedy, and Boarman represented the University Administration at the banquet, attended by over 50 staff members and guests. ^ay 13, 1955
Paper
Mate
■ DM1 MIMI
<£>1955 Paper-Mate Co.. Ine.. Culver City. CalUL
Fair-Traded
imnu
MEW! AFTER 5
YEARS OF RESEARCH 7

77P



Exquisite PAPER-MATE CAPRI in sparkling jewelry finish. Choice of “fine” or “medium” Silvered-Tip
Here’s Paper-Mate’s new “Fine-Point” Silvered-Tip. developed after 5 years of intensive research. Gives you clear, crisp, hair-line words and figures without pressure or scratch. Can’t leak or clog. Ink won’t transfer. Fully guaranteed. Get Paper-Mate’s new “Fine-Point” Silvered-Tip, today.
Available in both Paper-Mate De Luxe and Capri.
Special laundry Service Colored Hose Washed FREE uunnm 208 East Jefferson Drop Off Service
r" RENT A
ROYAL TYPEWR/TER
FROM ROYAL A
Hff
Late models.Adjusted for new machine per-
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone CE 2-3336
, i j - MIIWIT formance Immediate • na9rM9 delivery. Special rates	tuna
33
the M page
by Don Yeckel
Huh?
I really had to laugh at the little box they inserted in last week’s “Back Page.” The box announced that applications would be accepted from prospective “The Week” or “The Back Page” columnists. Applicants were requested to submit sample columns to the editors for consideration. The funny part was this little phrase: “all essays submitted for ‘The Back Page’ should be done on a serious, high-level plane.”
Now I really can’t excuse the editors of the Scholastic for accusing me of writing on “a serious, high-level” plane. I certainly hope that my writing has been serious, but I emphatically deny that it has been high-level. In fact, it was my intention when I was chosen to write “The Back Page” for this year that I would not write anything very profound (and high-level, I think, does mean pro-
found). I don’t think that I have broken that resolution. I have tried to select subjects that are or should be of interest to Notre Dame students, and to talk about those subjects with all the intelligent common-sense that I could muster. There is a difference between writing on a high-plane (in the true sense of that phrase), and writing with intelligent common-sense.
So, Phooey. . .
And so, in open defiance of the editors, this week I am going to conunent very briefly on a few things that have caught my attention in the past week or two. Perhaps in this way I can make clear that this column is exactly that—a commentary on passing events, a few ideas that try to place individual events into a larger perspective. No extensive analyses, no complete resolutions of problems, no final words on any subject —just comments and suggestions.
Number 1:
I’ll start with something that caught my fancy just tonight. A short time ago I heard the sound of lusty young voices drifting through my window. Lo and behold, the lusty young voices belonged to a throng of Sorinites bearing Father Sorin’s statue back to Sorin Hall.
I was just overjoyed when I heard that Father Sorin had decided to make the Derby this year. Now I have absolutely no idea of the manner in which the powers-that-be take Father Sorin’s periodic disappearances. I happen to think that it’s fine. I am sure that there is absolutely no disrespect intended for the memory of Father Sorin. In fact, I think that it is rather a sign of
34
respect. I am inclined to think that Father Sorin himself looks down rather benevolently on the whole affair.
I am a staunch advocate of traditions —even silly traditions. If for no other reason than this, I would look kindly on the statue’s sojourns. After all, we have so darned few traditions around here. More than that, though, I think that this kind of activity indicates a healthy spirit in the students. I would rather see spirit manifested in this way than in the way in which it is manifested at some other universities that seem to make national headlines every spring.
I hope I don’t have to emphasize the obvious fact that these comments are entirely and completely personal.
Number 2:
Congratulations to Forst Brown, Dick Burke, Joe Daley, and John O’Meara deserve to be repeated here. If selfless service means anything at all, one can see it by looking at these four men, men in the full sense of the word. Along the same lines, and for the same reason, congratulations go to Jim Sherer, who was chosen “Senator of the Year” by this year’s Student Senate.
Congratulations should also go to some people who did not receive the degree of recognition that they deserved—the editors of our campus publications: Frank Maier of the Juggler, Frank Florian and Gerry Schoenherr of the Technical Review, Larry Brehl of the SCHOLASTIC and Bud LaLonde of the Dome. And don’t forget Frank Newman of the Wranglers and Walt Kearns of the Bookmen. And how about Dick Beeman, who did such a tremendous job at
WNDU this year? .... there’s just too many—I could take this whole page and still not name everyone who, in large measure or small, made our stay here more worthwhile.
Number 3:
There were several letters to the Editor in last week’s Scholastic criticizing the March 25 cover, the cover on Fort Lauderdale. I disagreed with the letters on the point of poor taste and suggestiveness. I didn’t feel that the cover- was at all suggestive.
A more serious issue was raised when two of these letters maintained that suggestive Scholastic covers have something to do with Catholic college education. One young lady asked, “What good is their Catholic education doing them anyhow?”
I heartily oppose this kind of connection. A Catholic college education is not concerned with the kind of dress that is properly wom by young ladies. A^ college education aims at training the intellect for the pursuit of truth. To be sure, as the young lady says, we want to become “real leaders for Christ”. The issue lies at a much deeper level than she suggests.
And, if one desires to see more apparent evidence of materialism than appeared on the cover in question, one has merely to look at the majority of the advei-tisements that appear in the most conservative magazines—including some^ of those that appear in the magazine you are now reading.
Number 4:
Orchids to the Latin American student on campus who was punished for refusing to shave off his moustache. It seems like such a small, silly thing. You probably laughed when I just mentioned this. It really is important, though, and rather frightening, that such provincial-’^ ism exists on campus. This kid (he’s only a freshman) deserves a lot of credit for sticking by his guns and refusing to renounce even a small part of his; cultural heritage. There are othei- cul-; tural heritages than our own, you know,; and I’m thankful to this lad for remind-i ing me of it.	•
Number 5:
And last, but by no means least, sincere thanks to Don Sniegowski and thr^ Blue Circle Integrity Committee for their work on the honor system. Despite their resounding setback at the polls, I am sure that some more acceptable system will be worked out in the next few years, thanks mainly to their initiative.
Ha, Ha!
So there, editors, I haven’t been high- | level even once. As I said—nothing but j comments.
Printed at the AVE MARIA PRESf^J
varied assignments
Cliff Litherland asks
Would I have
at Du Pont-or
would I specialize
technically?
CLIFFORD LITHERLAND received a B.A. degree from Rice Institute last year, and is now working for a B.S. in Chemical Engineering. He is Business Manager of "The Rice Engineer,” and Vice-President of. the fifth-year class at Rice. By asking questions of prospective employers, Cliff is trying to get information that will help him make the best use of his training in the years ahead.
Arthur Mendolia answers
ARTHUR I. MENDOLIA was graduated from Case Institute in June 1941 and started work with the Du Pont Company that same month. In addition to handling challenging assignments at work, he also enjoys some interesting hobbies. Although he makes no claims personally, he’s classed as a minor authority on golf and hi-fi music. Mr. Mendolia is Assistant Director of Research for’Du Pont’s Electrochemicals Dept.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont,” a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
REG. U.S. PAT. OFC
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA”ON TELEVISION
Well, Cliff, I’d say the answer to that question depends largely on your own preferences. In a company the size of Du Pont there are opportunities for growth along either line.
In my own case, I’ve followed the route of diversification —and I think you’ll find that’s the general procedure when a fellow is interested in administrative work.
For example, after graduation I started work in the research lab at Du Pont’s Niagara Falls plant. That was followed by two years of process improvement work, and a stretch as assistant supervisor over one of the plant areas. Next, I spent a few years in liaison on the design and construction of our first full-scale plant for making nylon intermediates from furfural. Then, I had assignments on "plant start up,” and production supervision before I was given my present post. I was made Assistant Director of Research for Du Pont’s Electrochemicals Department last August.
You see, variety of assignments means contact with new men and with constantly changing problems. That keeps interest alive. It leads to growth, too, because it provides a broad base of experience for future responsibilities.
On the other hand, some fellows prefer to become specialists in a particular field—and Du Pont has many opportunities for that type of professional growth, too. In our research, development and design groups we have experts on distillation, mass transfer, thermodynamics—and most anything else you’d care to mention in the field of engineering. These men are respected throughout the whole company for their technical knowledge.
Whichever route you choose, Cliff—broad or specialized— you’ll find that a job well done leads to satisfaction and advancement at Du Pont.

e
CHESTERFIELD
today!
of Chesterfield’s smoothness
—mildness—refreshing taste.
You’ll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s quality — highest quality—low nicotine.
In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield
