1867 SCHOLASTIC 1992
NOTRE DAME’S STUDENT MAGAZINE
In honor of its 125th anniversary
Scholastic welcomes back returning alumni staffers
All members of the Notre Dame community are invited to join us at the following events:
"Student Journalism at Notre Dame"
"The Press and the Presidency"
Panel discussion moderated by Dr. Robert Schmuhl with scheduled panelists including:
Tom Bettag '66 Executive Producer of ABC-TV's "Nightline"
John Twohey '66 Associate Managing Editor of the Chicago Tribune
9 a.m. Saturday, February 8 in the CCE
Panel discussion moderated by Jack Powers '52 with panelists from campus student media and student activities
10:30 a.m. Saturday in the CCE
"American Media in the Coming Decade"
Matt Storin '64 Executive Editor of the New York Daily News
4 p.m. Saturday, February 8 in the CCE

CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
CO o
M3 N>
Disci- 9\ZA5I	iI CRAS^	lev 3-	i

ELECTIONS ‘92
10
Butrus and O’Neill Certo and Bomberger Delevan and Wilson Smith and Goodwin
DiSCE.QUASPSEAWER-^ICTVhvS^^
:C::
125TH ANNIVERSARY
SCHOLASTIC
14
16
19
20
21
Letters to the Editors 125 Years of Scholastic Father Carey— A Notre Dame Leader for 70 Years
The “Media-tor”
The Scholastic Suspension
SCHOLASTIC
DEPARTMENTS
2
24
Editor’s Notes Editorial Final Word
SCHOUSUC

FEBRUARY 6,1992
1

SCHOLASTIC
^lOTRE PAME^;STt)PE:NT^A<3AZHJE:;:
EDITOR'S NOTES
February ;6,i1992
: DisceQuasfSemperrVicturus 7;Vive Quasi Oras Mpriturus^
£buridedj|^
EDITORINjC lan^Mitcheli <; : . .
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari -Okuda;
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia; Doyle;
Editor	:	; : ;
AssistantgDenj^^
Editor? Elizabeth Bay tipri f■ 77
AssistaritMMar^
^Editor? dpri PauIBptts Assistant? Jim Kus^

ENTERTAINMENT
Editor: Elizabeth Graner
i?:? i:	: .j > ?	; I?. //
?:Edhpr?M^^
Assis tant^KirrilQeriedella

:PHpTpG^
^Editpjri;K^	\
■Assistant Nick Spangler
^SENIORS^^ .yphnsBj^ OeftOptzO
7LauraJJ^^


WPHIO^ ye^ife -Nayl^	7 W
:i^pUT:MANAG
•RebeccaArinb^^
systems; manager
Manager?bayid(Chm
Manager?ScottEckem^
f<Biii-Rhgm
125 Years Old
When I was on the yearbook staff in high school, we weren’t allowed to quote other staffers in the book. The yearbook, said the nun who was our adviser, shouldn’t be about ourselves.
This week, Sr. Kathy would be mad at me, because this issue of Scholastic is about... well, ourselves. Or rather, it’s about all the preceding Scholastic staffs who have guided the publication through its 125-year history. This issue’s cover, by Graphic Arts Manager Jeanne Naylor, displays justa few of the logos Scholastic has used over the years. Inside the issue, several stories take a look at different aspects of the magazine’s past.
For starters, we present a sampling of the letters Scholastic has received from 1867 on. Then, a brief overview of the magazine’s long history begins on page 16. A selection of news items from Notre Dame’s early years will give you an idea of what the Scholastic of long-ago was like, while an interview with media adviser Adele Lanan, conducted by Campus Life Editor Elizabeth Bayti’on, introduces one of the people who help make today’s magazine possible.
Another person who has helped make Scholastic possible is Father Charles Carey, who was in charge of student publications during the 1940s. He’s been on campus since he was 13, and this weekend he celebrates his 85th birthday. (On behalf of all Scholastic staffs past and present, Happy Birthday, Father Carey.) Departments Editor Mike Owen interviews a man who’s seen a lot of Notre Dame history.
Scholastic’s history is not without controversy. When the magazine was shutdown in 1987 for printing a previously-banned photo, then reinstated a.few days later, the limits of student press freedom were clearly tested. News Editor Margaret Kenny reports on the struggle against censorship.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription raleis$25.Q0/yearand backissuesare available at $125 fcopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty ar students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Lastly, this week’s “Final Word” features the reflections of Jack Powers, a former Scholastic editor, on the magazine’s anniversary.
125 Years Young
Scholastic is only as old as the students who make up its editorial board. Applications are now being accepted for all positions on the 1992-’93 board. If you’re interested, please apply and join the proud Scholastic tradition. Help us stay “a century ahead of the competition.” Of course, we’re also always looking for more writers and photographers.
Also in This Issue
In case you haven’t seen the signs wallpapering the campus and you were out when the candidates came to call on your room, student body presidential elections are upon us. Scholastic’s editorial endorsement is at left, and the transcripts of our interviews with the candidates on all four tickets are elsewhere in the magazine. Make your voice count with an informed vote on Monday.
Welcome Back
The current staff of Scholastic extends a warm welcome to all returning alumni staffers. You’ll probably find a lot that has changed at the magazine, but we hope you’re pleased that the tradition continues. (Some events of the reunion weekend are open to the university community ; check the ad elsewhere in this issue.)
Tune in Next Week
All the regular departments, columns and featureswillretuminnextweek’sissue. See you then.
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholasi ic cannot print all let ters received.
The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
2
Vote
Butrus and O’Neill
Scholastic endorses the ticket of Greg Butrus and Molly O’Neill. Butrus’s leadership in hall government and his experience with student senate will prove valuable in the position of student body president His work on the board of trustees reports will be key to this position because this is an essential task in the student body presidency. O’Neill’s experience with hall and class leadership is also important in terms of understanding the political system.
Scholastic believes that this ticket’s platform concerning safety and academics are important and achievable goals in their limited term in office. We admire their interest in pursuing reading days prior to final exams. This is something we believe would benefit both students and professors. Furthermore, safety is an issue which must be taken seriously and something that all tickets agreed on. While Scholastic does not see expanding the ID system as an acheivable goal for student government, we appreciate their research, ingenuity and enthusiasm on the subject.
The main drawback of this ticket is the way they view the HPC scandal. Scholastic does not believe that a personality conflict is a justifiable reason for holding a closed meeting. As leaders on this campus, the HPC members, including Butrus and O’Neill, should be able to conduct a meeting in an open and public manner whether or not people have personality conflicts. Although no one may argue if a dorm Hall Council decides to buy dinner for HPC, we believe that the upstairs room in South Dining Hall would provide a suitable (and cheaper) environment for “socialization and communication” between dorm presidents. Scholastic feels that there are other feasible means for this and as leaders, Butrus and O’Neill should realize this.
The Certo and Bomberger ticket’s desire to bring more information to students is an excellent concern. They have been involved in many activities, but we are concerned with their experience in student government Their desire to avoid duplication between different branches of student government and SUB is laudable. Scholastic also compliments them for realizing that imposing a gag order and holding closed meetings made HPC look like it did have something to hide. They emphasize that they have evaded unrealistic ideas, but they suggest few concrete ideas of their own.
Delevan and Wilson have some important experience in hall and student governments. They too realize the importance of safety and academics atNotre Dame and wish to make student government an open and accessible organization to the entire student body. However, Scholastic is concerned about their cohesiveness as a ticket.
The final ticket, Smith and Goodwin, has plenty of new ideas and enthusiasm about student government They feel that being “new” would be a step forward and help them make changes. We are worried that it may not be possible to “jump” into the office of student body president and vice president lacking so much experience.
Scholastic supports Butrus and O’Neill because they have strong and reasonable goals and the experience to execute them. We feel they will protect students’ rights and try to benefit students by their leadership.
-Scholastic
FEBRUARY 6,1992
!
Butrus and
O’Neill
Greg Butrus, candidate for student body president, is a junior history major from Birmingham, Ala. He is co-president of Stanford Hall, an HPC representative on student senate, a member of the constitutional revision committee and chairman of the student government task force on crime. Hisfreshman year he worked on the report to the board of trustees on sexuality, and he has worked on the report on undergraduate education this year.
Molly O'Neill, running for student body vice president, is a junior philosophy major from Cadillac, Mich. She is co-president of Lewis Hall, an HPC representative on student senate, a member of the constitutional revision committee and an appointed member of the Colloquy 2000 subcommitte on student life.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP?
BUTRUS: Well, certainly you could list a lot of things, but I think we’re going to focus on three specific issues throughout the campaign ... First of all we’d like to introduce, or expand, what we would call expand, the credit system using the student IDs currently used. You already see a little bit of that, obviously in the bookstore, and there’s the electronic system you see in the dining halls. The same company — we’ve researched this, and the same company [that] does that also offers services that we can expand to things like vending machines. We could expand it, not necessarily into the dining halls like [an] a la carte system, in the huddle, in the deli, in all kinds of places across campus, even at some point taking it to places like The Copy Shop, Irish Gardens, ND Video.
O’NEILL: It’s a matter of a small unit, it’s about like this, about this big (gestures). You can run anything off it, it can be put into buildings, you could run all the detexes off your student ID, so you wouldn’t have to carry an extra card.... Anything; your laundry, you could use it on the copy machines.... So it’s moving to a no-cash system, which is safer for having to cany it around, I mean it’s not as easy to get stolen, and it’s also easier to keep track of what you spend.
BUTRUS: Besides that we’re also looking into the crime aspect and trying to find someconcrete, non-“just throw money at theproblem” solutions. One thing we’ve looked into is working with the places that are basically student-patronized, and finding a way to provide more security for them. One thing we’ve looked at is... having local bars work with student government... so one night one bar sponsors a private security guard for the five comers area, or including Club 23, those kind of details can be worked out more with the bar owners ... But the benefit is, students know their cars are safe in the parking 4
lot, they feel more comfortable and students are safer if they do go off campus, becuase we just have to face reality: students go off campus here, and basically the university’s addressed on campus issues a lot more than they’re addressed off campus situations.... O’NEILL: The third point that we’re focusing on is academically related, and it’s the expansion of some sort of reading period before finals week. Our hope is that it will not be any amount of time that’ll make the semester longer. Right now we’re looking at possibly just cutting out the Thursday and Friday classes and making Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday reading days.... Because realistically, as much as they want to say “you should have studied during the semester, that’s a lot of reviewing to do in two days.
BUTRUS: We’ve also talked to members of Academic Council, in terms of feasibility and what their response has been. Several of them have said “we think it’s absurd we don’t have that.”....
O’NEILL: A lot of other major universities, especially around here, have that—Northwestern, U of M... most of them are considered reading “weeks.” I don’t think we even right now want to do anything that drastic, but that’s something that we can look into, but as far as a middle ground in getting something that’s good for both sides, I think two days would be fine...
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
O’NEILL: Well, I think one thing, and this is the thing we hope to continue, has been the work that they’ve done investigating the academic situation with the class sizes and the debate between research and the undergraduate education....
BUTRUS: That’s been, obviously, the biggest priority for Joseph [Blanco] and Dave [Florenzo] in student government....
One of the traditional duties of SBP and SBVP is to present reports to the baord of trustees. What are some specific topics you would like to see explored?
BUTRUS: First of all, one thing I advocated early on this year is maybe intergating some of our proposals on crime and safety for students, just in general safety into a report. And that’s something that could certainly be brought up; I think safety or student wellbeing might be a [report]-type issue.... there are lots of ways we can assure student saftey here beyond just having security guards at parking lots. Also, I think financial aid is something that has not been addresses, and has to be dealt with by the students, because... that touches base with every single student, almost, especially as the tuition goes up every year, and that’s long overdue, I think, as a report topic....
SCHOLASTIC
O’NEILL: In financial aid, too, it’s very difficult, until you take a step like writing a report like that, to get any information on financial aid. ... I think that might help to disclose some of those misconceptions thatpeople have, andgetrid of sorneof the rumors, and find out exactly what’s going on and how big of an issue it is....
In the last few weeks, HPC has received a lot of criticism for its spending on meals and holding closed meetings. Do you feel the criticism has been justified?
BUTRUS: The way I see it is this: A hall, like any other group that has money, has appropriate bugetary processes. A resolution came through Hall Presidents’ Council afterward to address this, saying that wc reaffirm our committement to the belief that hall presidents are ... having [expenditures] approved through the appropriate processes. And that’s the way we feel about it, but Hall Presidents’
O’NEILL: We have heard of people from around campus that have had a problem with it, but I don ’ t know of anyone that’s come up and talked about hall president and heard the explanation of what’s going on or how the funds are disclosed ...we sincerely believe the proper channels are being used and if they’re not then that needs to be investigated on a dorm by dorm basis not by accusing all the HPC of stealing money from the student body because that is just not the . case. I don’tknow of anyone that has talked to their hall presidents and heard what’s going on and still been upset, not at all. I think we’ve tried to keep our ears open, a great deal, as you can imagine as to what the sentiment is. But I think anyone that has heard what’s going on and our reason’s for why the meetings are closed, it’s completely understandable.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/
Council can’t tell any hall ... how to spend their money.... O’NEILL: Just to give you a very specific instance: In Lewis, what we did ... at the hall council we said we’re under no pressure to have this dinner, we come to you like any other organization comes to you to solicit funds. You outline exactly what you’re going to do with it and they voted unanimously to still sponsor the dinner. There was absolutely no question as to whether they ... they were not feeling pressured. They thought it was a good tradition to continue. They understand the fact that a lot of business is
Presidential candidate Greg Butrus and vice presidential candidate Molly O’Neill.
or functions of the different arms of student government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
O’NEILL: We just talked about this this afternoon in the constitution meeting, and in reworking the constitution, those questions are being addressed. The HPC charter that was just established gives greater voting power to the HPC - not within the realm of student government, but within the body itself. Every single member will have a vote now as opposed to every single dorm, so you’ll have a greater voting constituency in that As far as the set-up of student government, there are a
conducted in the time that you have to socialize with other people. People criticize that left and right but the fact of the matter is that there is a lot of dorm communication that goes on and I would hate to see where we might be without that communication. And true, it can take place on other grounds, but if you provide an environment for it to grow in.... There has been some misunderstandings as to why the meeting was closed: It was not at all so that we could tell everyone only what they wanted them to hear. That was not the point at all. The point was that it was an internal personality conflict between members of the Hall Presidents’ Council. It was not a matter of not disclosing what happened at the meeting, at all. For anyone to say that would just be blatant misrepresentation of what happened at the meeting. That was the only issue discussed. It was really to resolve the situation within he group before ... radical people on either side could come in. Of course, it was an emotional thing. Someonehadmadeaverbal attack. Itwas emotionally heated and we just didn’t want things to get out of hand.
BUTRUS: ... Really the hall presidents are doing an enormous amount of work for their halls. At lot of times even more than the RA’s getting three to four thousand dollars whether or not it’s justified...
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
lot of things, I think, that conflict, even in the consititution that said who had what powers. The HPC constitution that we just revised said that HPC had total run of An Tostal; which is not the case. No one ever wanted it to be that way; it was from 1976. That’s why a lot of these things are being investigated. As far as restructuring, I don’t think any radical move is either desirable or would be smart. The first year, I think, that you change anything radically, nothing gets done. The system as it stands seems to be fairly effective. The one thing we want to concentrate on is making student government more accessible and more visible so that people know what student government is and know what we’re doing and what goes on.
BUTRUS: That’s directly to my feelings that you can just sit around playing petty politics and playing shifting votes here and there, and if its effective, its beneficial to the student body, then you should do it. But if it’s not beneficial, and it’s not going in a direction that’s beneficial, don’t bother with it. Get the job done for the students first, and deal with the other problems; that is, if they’re legitimate problems deal with them also, but if they’re not real problems, just situations, don’t bother with them. You’ve got to promote that, basically.	□
5
ELECTIONS '92
Certo and
Bomberger
;j Dave Certo, candidate for the student body presidency, currently :	resides in Alumni Hall as a junior government and theology major,
i with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program in peace studies. 1 Dave has been a student senate member and served on the senate ।	budget committee. He has also been a member of the student crime
:i	task force, a copy editor for The Observer, Alumni Hall Iceberg
; Debate captain, WSND news announcer, Notre Dame liturgical choir member, ROTCparticipant and currently serves as the Grand Knight oftheNotre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus. Certo hails from Richmond, Indiana.
; Matt Bomberger, student body vice-president candidate, is a St. Edward’s Hall junior from Gainesville, Florida. Matt is a gov-ernmentlmechanical engineering major. Matt currently serves as I	the An Tostal co-chairman, a Model UnitedNations member, aSUB
:	member and a member of the Club Coordination Council. Matt is
;! also the St. Edward's Hall academic commissioner and has par-ticipated as a tutor in the Learning Resource Center.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as SBP I and SBVP?
'i	CERTO: What we would like to form is a student government that
।	is not so much reactive as active. We would like to form a student
government that is led from the top, but that goes out among the students and brings them in, people who don’t usually get involved in student government because they really don’t think that it works.
If we can draw these kind of people together, with their specialized knowledge, student government can really be an effective force. ... I firmly believe that one of the answers to off-campus crime is making sure that Notre Dame reaches out into the South Bend community and to do that we have to continue to ! increase programs that are sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the tutoring, the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program.... BOMBERGER: Another thing we want to look at is student money, 1	and student budgeting, and the way that student government is
j;	organized. Right now there is some repetition between student
j union board and student government, specifically ideas and issues. i We would like to see all student programming go through the one p. body,StudentUnionBoard,sothatstudentmoneycanbeeffectively used to bring in high quality speakers and high quality events. We ! want to make sure that student money is used for the students, that ’ it goes for good programming, good events, and effective service towards the students.
■	CERTO: Afterworkingonthebudgetcommittee.Iseethatthereare
f	alotofdifferentgroupsbut,yet,anendrmousamountofmoney. But
I	each one of them spends its money on advertising and promoting
p	projects that often overlap....
r	e
BOMBERGER: I specifically can look to the Club Coordination Council, which I have been serving on. They look at an average of $450 for every concession stand they allot out and this year there were several clubs that were unable to even break even on the concession stands. We want to bring the experience in, from both my experience with the An Tostal “The Shirt”, which raised this year about $445,000, which was split between An Tostal and HPC.... It can only help the university.
CERTO: A lot of these student groups have trouble with the concession stands because no one has ever really shown them how to run one. Consequently, when Matt struck out the new idea of t-shirts for Model UN, he received a lot of flack because t-shirts were an unconventional way to go about having a concession stand.... But the kind of expertise that we have [in fund-raising] we could easily share with the other clubs. It’s just a matter of setting up and maintaining the apparatus to do that
BOMBERGER: And one of our final points is the relation of student government with the university. The student government should have a greater voice in university decisions such as DuLac revisions, such as hall changes. We were all taken by surprise when Pangbom Hall was announced that it was going to be changed from a men’s dorm to a women’s dorm. The residents were very upset with how it was handled and the whole dorm shared their sympathy. What we need is for the student government to have an effective voice in the administration so that we will be informed of such changes and possibly could make it easier or possibly redirect the change for a better atmosphere for all.
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
BOMBERGER: Well, they’ve done their job effectively. They’ve done what’s needed to be done to keep student government running, to keep the services that are presently created running.... The way they, David [Florenzo] and Joseph [Blanco], have worked together, has allowed them to get things done without causing undue stress in student government. One would take the heavy-handed approach while the other would make sure no hard feelings were created.... We also need, however, the impetus in student government to go forward from where we presently are to greater and better things, more student service for the students.
CERTO: I’veknown Joe [Blanco] forthree years,and there has never been a time when I didn’t respect him.... I have to say I respect understatement —... It’s not a flashy kind of leadership style...
One of the traditional duties of SBP and SBVP is to present reports to the board of trustees. What are some specific topics
SCHOLASTIC
you would like to see explored?
CERTO: Off-campus crime has really been important to me as well as the quality of life here of undergraduate students. There have been concerns that the shape of the student body has been changing, that the Catholic character might be compromised or that diversity might not be recognized.... I think it’s very important that the students present those concerns to the board of trustees.
BOMBERGER: It might also be time to take a good, hard look at
Presidential candidate Dave Certo and vice-presidential candidate Matt Bomberger.
student rights on campus. Students often complain that they don’t have very much to say with the administration, very much power of recourse or due process.
CERTO: This whole shift of a national Catholic research university has made many undergraduate students exceptionally nervous. The fact remains that you can’t have good undergraduate education without quality research. The people who are on the cutting edge of research in their fields will be the faculty who have access to the latest knowledge. However, at the same time, you have to make sure that the graduate programs continue to improve, the undergraduate programs to improve and expand, or Notre Dame won ’ t in the future have a strong undergraduate character.
In the last few weeks, HPC has received a lot of criticism for its spending on meals and holding closed meetings. Do you feel the criticism has been justified?
CERTO: Some of the criticism has been exceptionally well-placed. Last semester I proposed an amendment to the constitution to forbid closed-door meetings. It was shouted down under the concern that maybe the students would voice their opinions at the wrong times. The fact remains that the student government is for the students and on behalf of the students, and we are responsible for them.... Hall President’s.Council could have easily survived any problems about meals had they conducted their proceedings in an open forum. ... If the halls vote for food for their presidents, then the halls have the money to do so. All they would have had to do is discuss that in an open atmosphere. By closing the doors, they look like they have something to hide, and it’s unreasonable....
BOMBERGER:... I’ve been able to talk with Rob Pritchard at length about the subject The idea is trust—trust in student government— the moment you close those doors, the students lose trust. When the students lose trust, good government breaks down.... there is nothing that does not concern the students, and the students have every right to hear what’s going on untaped, uncensored, and The Observer and Scholastic have the right to make sure that the students know what’s going on. An idea was presented that they closed the meeting because there might be misquotes; there won’t be any quotes now because they closed the meeting....
CERTO: HPC said that they would release the official version of what went on at the meeting. We haven’t seen the official version, and we don’t know what happened. If they were worried about misquotes, misquotes can always be fixed. Our reputation isn’t riding on three words that might be taken out of context in The Observer. What happened was HPC now is known for the food scandal rather than any good they might have done. They fact that they took the initiative to fund Weekend
Wheels was overshadowed by the fact that they closed the doors to the students....
BOMBERGER:... there was a gag-order placed on the members of HPC. That I almost take as insulting, that a president cannot inform his constituents, his hall, of what’s going on at this body that is purportedly for the dissemination of information to all the students. It could be one of the most representative bodies on the campus, elected popularly by the students themselves, by each hall....
CERTO: When I proposed the amendment last semester, my mind was that student government should be the kind that students place their trust in and can take and active part in. There should be nothing kept from them. ...'As long as the students keep fighting among each other, there is no way to make progress for student rights, for improving undergraduate education, for making Notre Dame a better experience for everyone. My idea with the amendment was that student government should should have no closed doors, have no gag-order, and that there should be nothing to hide.
BOMBERGER: We can bring all these things together. We can make one concerted force for the students to the administration.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or functions of the different arms of student government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
CERTO: ...Yes there should be changes made. Where there is duplication of work, it should be cut out; where people are interested in building their resumes instead of doing work, those positions should be slashed or should be replaced. SBP and the student senate should be unafraid to remove people who aren’t doing their jobs and find other people who will...
BOMBERGER: There needs to be an evolution, as I see it; student government needs to evolve into an active organization, not just be content with what it has done in the past It needs to grow; it needs to cut out some of the rivalries between the different organizations and have them work together. In that way there won’t be a repetition of effort, there will be the ability to show the students organization. CERTO: What I have chosen as a campaign slogan: is Real Promises, Real Results. ... We will be able to bring student government where it needs to be...	□
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
7
___ELECTIONS '92
Delevan and
Wilson
Richard Delevan, candidate for student body president, is a Junior government/philosophy major from Ronkonkoma, New York. He currently holds the office of co-president of Flanner Hall, and helped write the new charter for HPC. Last year he was assistant executive coordinator with Mike Orlins under Roger Samuel at the legal department of student government and served on the bill of rights task force.
Joe Wilson, candidate for student body vice-president, is a junior government major from New Orleans, Louisiana. He is currently the senator for north quad, and has now held that position for two years. He was on the student senate budget committee for one year and is a member of the presidential task force on multiculturalism.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achie ve as SBP and SBVP?
WILSON: First of all, talking about the situation as far as safety, we have many concrete proposals surrounding that, safety as we all know, is a great, great problem, a great concern not only for off-campus students. Once, it only seemed to be an off-campus problem. But as we’ve seen this year ,it’s moved on to dormitories and walking from dorm to dorm. ... Specifically, the parking situation and the situation concerning parking needs lots of improvement. One thing that we would like to hopefully accomplish upon being elected by the student body is the insulation of security cameras in the parking lots and having monitors in the huts at both the west and east gate... Another objective would be the expansion of Safewalk to include more comprehensive plans as far as motor vehicles, surveillance of lots, providing students with the option of getting escorts back from the lots, not only by car, but providing them with a concrete schedule of when they can expect Safewalk officials to be in the lots. ... Aside from that we would also like to preserve the Weekend Wheels program....
DELEVAN: Weekend Wheels we’re trying to get expanded to include having people picked up on campus. It’s a good program, but the problem right now is it’s not being promoted enough. The university has not been there with the kind of support that would make this a more successful program. We feel basically Weekend Wheels is an important program, that if it saves lives, it’s definitely worth having to keep you from the temptation of driving drunk back from the bars. The university, I think, has been resistant to this kind of thing, and we’re looking at the legal aspects of being able to pick up on campus right now. We’re waiting for that to be sorted out.... I think one of the other areas... that is certainly very important to life on campus is the situation of date-rape. As far as the administration
8
policy on it, it’s simply atrocious. It can’t be allowed to remain the way it is.... I’ve been talking with some people working for S.O.S. and C.A.R.E., when they came over to Flanner to do one of those presentations. One of the victims described the process that the university has set up that they went through like being raped a second time, and that’s the kind of mentality that the university has set up and the way that they deal with the situation. That-attitude itself is probably a major part of the problem. Beyond that, we also want to try create a program of self-defense seminars. One’s being tried in Knott; I believe it’s next week. But what we want do is set up an option for people campus-wide to be able to participate in seminars like that. People in the martial arts institute are willing to help out. South Bend police are willing to help out, and stuff like that. I think that what’s needed is a commitment from student leaders, to be able to extend the program that is going to be effective and that will be available to all students on campus.
WILSON: I think that another thing dealing upon that, talking about the situation off-campus, is also we’d be very interested in having student government to be very instrumental in locating those high areas of concentrations of Notre Dame students off-campus, and helping them to form neighborhood watch programs, doing that in conjunction with the South Bend police department.
DELEVAN: The neighborhood watch is a concept that can work in certain types of communities, communities where there is a concentration of people who are willing to work together on this program. We think that things like Lafayette Square and Turtle Creek, and CampusView Apartments would probably be the most logical places to set up these kinds of programs. ... The major problem that we see right now with the relationship between the police department and especially students off-campus, is that there is no real cooperation that’s going on, between all the news reports thathavecomeoutin the lastcoupleyears. The neighborhood watch program is a way, I think, that satisfies both students and the police department’s legitimate interest in trying to maintain order in the community....
WILSON: Another area that we want to.talk about is the collegiate summit. When first hearing the name, it sounds like “What in the hell is this?”... What we would like to is kind of bring all these things together, for next year, draw upon our resources of contacts with the lecture series, our contacts with NASCU and leading universities around the country, and not only with catholic universities, but all colleges and universities around the country, bring it all together in a collegiate summit. We’re of course celebrating our 150th anniversary and we’ve all been drilled to death of that, but looking at it, I think the most important thing that we can kind of bring to that is, not
SCHOLASTIC
only are we celebrating our past but we’re celebrating hopefully a rich future, being a leader not only in education, but education around the whole country, and that’s what this type of thing could be a great step in the right direction as far as getting all these resources together, in a way that students around the country, students on every campus, faculty, administrators — we can get together and discuss those issues that are pertinent to all of us, whether it be political correctness, multiculturalism, crime on campuses, and so forth, the role that we all can play in moving forward, and that’s in essence what we would like to see happen with the collegiate summit, to bring all that together....
DELEVAN: Obviously, one of the critical concerns that student government’s going to have to deal with next year is the undergraduate situation, as we move to a research university. There’s been a lot of discomfort about moving to a research university. I think the important thing however is that we have to realize that we’re in transition. We’re not going to be able to stop where we are right now with this course....
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
DELEVAN: I think that one of the problems is that there is no ready answer to what is the major accomplishment of this year’s student
government. I personally don’t think I could point to a single program that’s the standout program for this year. I can’t point to a singular program except for the progress that has been made with the joint efforts of the people in student government and the people in the administration on the cultural diversity committee, and trying to further this process along with some of the things that
were brought on last year.
One of the traditional duties «
ill
of the SBP and SB VP is to i
presentreportstotheboardof Vice presidential candidate Joe Wilson and presidential trustees. What are some spe-	candidate Rich Delevan.
cific topics you would like to see explored?
DELEVAN: Certainly, security on campus should be the topic of the first BOT report that comes out of a potential Delevan/Wilson administration. Some kind of a concrete action plan that takes in the goals of the task force that was set up on both on and off-campus crime; to get the support of the board of trustees hopefully on that specific program....
WILSON:... I would like to see something done as far as coming back and looking at what has happened and then helping to formulate possibly what can be done in the future as far as even more incorporating women into this community, and what we’re about DELEVAN: ... Last year, I believe, when Joseph and Dave took office, the first topic they did was teaching and research, but their conclusion was that they didn’t have a conclusion, that there wasn’t any specific recommendation that they had, that more study was
needed on the issue. They’re still working on that now. What we would like to see coming out is a BOT report that had concrete proposals...
In the past few weeks HPC has receive a lot of criticism for its spending on meals and holding closed meetings, DO you feel the criticism has been justified?
DELEVAN: ... I think that policy of having meals at a student government function is certainly something that draws a lot of questions, a lot of criticism, and rightfully so. ... I think that the decision still lies with each dorm, each dorm should be responsible to its own constituents, each hall government, as to what they’re going to spend their residence money on, and if the hall council votes to spend money on section for HPC, then money from hall council should go to it. I don’t think that’s necessarily the best thing to do, if they’re going to have things from Olive Garden, but if it’s something that’s considerable lesser, and the hall votes so, then it’s the hall’s decision. As far as the gag rule that was instituted, I think there’s been a lot of questions raised about First Amendment rights and about the abili ty of people to speak on a particular issue. I think
that the way it’s been played up in the press is notaccurate to the way things were actually done. In the original letter that Pritchard put out, there were, I would say, some questionable allegations, allegations that deserved careful scrutiny and probably were, made in
haste. The meeting that we first considered those allegations, a lot of things were said that, I think, needed to be said, but also needed to be said in an environment where there wasn’t that immediate pressure of having somebody with a camera over your shoulder. Having a closed meeting is not something unusual for a political body. It’s something that when something sensitive comes up, and you want to be able to discuss it freely, you should be to do so; if and only if you are willing to provide a verbatim record of what happened at that meeting.
to be made in the structure anMTmhtRrtAyqjrtoWcWl arms of student government: the HPC, senate and the student body presidency?
WILSON:... Once again, I think it all goes back to... having students have a claim in, or a stake in, what’s going on, to feel that they are directly responsible for, not only themselves, but for other students. There needs to be more of a mechanism of having students feel as though that they are directly, or have a direct claim in what’s taking place. And we’ve discussed many possibilities of expanding senate to include non-elected members, rotating membership, and all kinds of things like that...
DELEVAN: I think that the major thing isn’t so much the structure as the role. Why do people not care about student government on this campus? It’s boring, it’s irrelevant ... until that role is redefined as a whole, I think that structural changes have to be secondary. □
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
9
ELECTIONS '92
Smith and Goodwin
George Smith, candidate for student body president, is a junior biology major from Knoxville, Tennessee. He is currently chairperson for Students for Environmental Action Earth Day Committee. He is acting president for Pax Christi and a member of the Jazz Band and Marching Band.
Mike Goodwin, candidate for student body vice-president, is a junior English major from Danville, Kentucky. He currently serves as a DJ for WVFI. Freshman year he served on the S.U.B. music committee.
What is the main goal (or goals) you would like to achieve as student body president and vice president?
SMITH: I think our basic premise is to provide the best education for Notre Dame students that can the university can give us. The way we were thinking of achieving that was two-fold. One would be increasing student input in administrative decisions, in several specific categories, such as more fully addressing the co-ed dorms issue, homosexuality on campus, more input in changes of duLac in the future. Actually, I think what we were thinking is we want a student bill of rights. Before I came, the year before my freshman year, I understand that there was a student bill of rights presented to the administration, but that it didn’t getpassed, for whatever reasons I don’t know. I think that’s a very necessary thing to provide a good framework for student input in administrative decisions.
GOODWIN: Very important to us also is demanding a response from the administration on certain issues that we think are again either too touchy for the administration or untouched by the administration, various issues that we put on our campaign poster.
SMITH: And also, the second half of it would be increasing, the student awareness on campus issues, national issues and global issues. I’m going to steal a phrase from the environmental movement, “Think globally, and act locally,” concentrate on some of the social issues like homosexuality on campus and how it is a national
problem as well as a campus problem; as well as sexism, which could also be addressed very effectively through the use of co-ed dorms. And also racism through possibly — we have to work this out with the faculty — through possibly greater emphasis on multiculturalism and minorities, especially Native Americans since this is the celebration of 500th year of Columbus, and all that good stuff....
What do you feel has been the major accomplishment of this year’s student government?
SMITH: This year’s student government I’ve been told that they’re right now in the process of presenting a big 71-page write-up on undergraduate university versus graduate research, and how possibly the undergraduate courses and what it has to offer to us as undergraduates might be suffering as an emphasis on research. My understanding is that it’s receiving a very positive response from the alumni senate and the board of trustees. ...
GOODWIN: We definitely want to continue that because I think that the administration should feel that when we use other sources, such as the alumni, contributors, past students, present students, . things like that we would like to arrange some type of a meeting where past presidents of student body maybe two years ago, five years ago, and eight years ago could come and all meet together and talk about these issues, becasue I think that the fact that students are here for four years the administration tends to think that we don’t have any permanence and that permanenece would bring about a stronger voice.
One of the traditional duties of the SBP and SB VP is to present reports to the board of trustees. What would be some specific topics that you would like to explore?
GOODWIN: One thing that we think is called for is we’re not satisfied with male/female relationships on this campus, by any
10
SCHOLASTIC
stretch of the imagination and we feel it is definitely time to address that issue, most of the catholic universities in the country that we feel would have information on have co-ed housing. We feel it would be definite positive step for male/female relations on this campus, and we would like to see that get a lot of push with the board of directors, and alumni and everything else.
SMITH: Yeah, I don’t think it would improve the dating situation on campus, but what we’re interested in is just sitting down and talking, guys and girls as friends. We saw that there wasn’t really a whole lot of tension between
the sexes in Ireland, last year... And it seems a little more evident here, especially with the sniping that was going on between the Notre Dame guys and Saint Mary’s girls last fall. It was just ugly. And also I think that co-ed dorms would provide good, informal, day-to-day situations where we could see people maybe not all dolled-up and not at their best; see them as real people and not as objects; a decrease of objectivication but also I think it would aid greatly in decreasing date-rape on this campus.
In the last few weeks, HPC has received a lot of criticism for
Mike Goodwin, vice presidential candidate, and George Smith, presidential candidate.
its spending on meals and holding closed meetings. Do you feel the criticism has been justified?
GOODWIN: Yes. We feel that a lot of it comes from the fact that student government isn’t unifed enough, and needs to be unified in the students’ eyes as well. A lot of students I’ve found, through campaigning and talking to people are upset because when they have complaints they don ’ t really know where to go with things, and I think it would be a very good idea to publish some type of a basic sketch of what student government encompasses and give that to all the students. Hopefully that would bring a lot more responsibility on all the branches of student government and unify them, too, to a tighter whole.
SMITH: On that specific issue, I live on the same floor with Rob Pritchard, so I might be a bit biased, but I don’t exactly know the specifics about that sort of thing, but the fact that that whole issue came out and the fact that a lot of the students weren’t happy at all about that — it kind of reflects negatively upon ... that HPC and student government as a whole, student senate, SUB, and the HPC are addressing student issues. It seems to be the kind of feeling that there is a bit of a cliquishness in the student government, especially that deal about a closed meeting. Meetings have always been open
at the senate and HPC, and right when something kind of controversial came out HPC slammed their doors and that seems kind of fishy ... GOODWIN: It comes especially ata time when there are so many pressing issues on student government that the fact that it would even be considered a social club is ridiculous with so many things to be done.
Do you feel that changes need to be made in the structure and/ or functions of the different arms of student government: the HPC, senate and the student
body presidency?
SMITH: I think that they need to work closer as a tighter whole. I was reading the constitution and there are mechanisms in place for the head of SUB, the student body president, of HPC to work together and kind of coordinate their activities. I’m not exactly sure how much use has been made of that instrument this year, but it seems to me that with the HPC issue, that more could be made of that.
GOODWIN: And the fact that one branch could be getting out of control shows that it definitely needs to be tightened. We would definitely be
in favor of full scale revisions, if they were necessary.
I think we definitely want to take a look very seriously at the student body government constitution, at duLac, at the honor code.... off the top of my head those are the documents I can think of right now, that to me have simply been completely overlooked by a lot of people because there are a lot of things in all of these documents that I don’t believe the students know about, and if they did know about, I think they would demand a change.
SMITH: Like, for instance, we don’t have a student bill of rights, and I think it’s kind of ludicrous, and what we were saying about more student input in administrative decisions. We would like to make changes in the task forces that the administration sets up to have more student input and to get them to listen more closely to us, because when there’s a letter in The Observer orScholastic, or what have you, the administration doesn’t reply at all.
GOODWIN: We definitely need a stronger voice in the governing of the university with the administration at Notre Dame, here, now, we need a stronger, louder voice.	□
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
11
February 1992
- —--------------——
Created with CalendarMaker™ by CE Software, 515-224-1995
THE SENIOR CLASS VIDEO
On Friday, May 15, 1992 at the graduation dance, a video highlighting all aspects of ND life will be shown. In order to capture the last 4 years on film, we need your help. You may submit video tapes or pictures to the Student Activities office until March 6.
Also, we will be taping at all dorms and various places off campus.
For more information call Katie Pamenter @ x1315
Sat., Feb 8 TIME Sun.. Feb 9
Sorin	11:00-11:30 Cavanaugh
Walsh	11:30-12:00 Zahm
Badin 12:00-12:30 Stanford
Morrissey 12:30- 1:00 Keenan
Lyons	1:00-1:30	Farley
Pangborn	1:30-2:00	B.P.
Fisher	2:00-2:30	Siegfried
Dillon	2:30-3:00	Knott
Alumni	3:00-3:30	P.W.
Lewis	3:30-4:00 P.E.
St. Ed’s	4:00-4:30	Grace
4:30-5:00 Flanner
Tuesday, Feb 11 @ Coaches
Thursday, Feb 13 @ Senior Bar
Friday, Feb 14 @ Bridget’s Commons & Linebacker T.B.A.
Off-campus seniors please call to set up a convenient time for taping Saturday, February 15 or Sunday February 16

E3 SUBWAY Has A Sandwich
For ANY Size Appetite!!!
•SUBWRV'
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31N (By North Village Mall)
STUDENTS ACT LIKE ANIMALS
SCHOLASTIC “PHENOMENAL”
SCHOLASTIC
-Sept 21,1867
THE CAMPUS MOURNS
E. SORIN
14
WHAT WOULD HE HAVE THOUGHT OF FRISBEE?
[Ed. Note: Yes, that “E. Sorin.” And you thought the university’s founder didn’t have a sense of humor.]
SCHOLASTIC GETS IN TROUBLE FOR THE FIRST TIME
STUDENTS TREATED LIKE ANIMALS
out of place.
- Oct. 25,1867
LETTERS TO THE EDITORS
We have received many letters and other articles of considerable merit, which are crowded out this week. Our correspondents and contributors are requested:
1st. Not to write on both sides of the sheet.
2d. Not to write with pencil.
3d. To write legibly, and to consult webster occasionally.
To the Editor of The Scholastic Year: REV. DEAR FATHER:—It may appear ungracious to find fault with a number almost exclusively devoted to my praise, but still I must take exception to every attempt to show wit or create fun at the expense of the veneration and sacredness ever due to quotations from Holy Scriptures. I am fully convinced that nothing was further from the writer’s mind than to be wanting in proper respect to the words used in his innocent hilarity, but any such freedom seems to me
MR. EDITOR: Please publish the following in THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR in regard to Base Ball playing in the yard:
To my thinking it is a very dangerous game to indulge in while there are so many in the yard. The players station themselves in the center of the yard, and there settle for a good old fashioned game. How much enjoyment it affords them when they see the
hard and rough ball come in contact with some poor fellow’s head! They have ball grounds, and why do they not use them? I am sure two good games a week should satisfy them. But, no; they must play in the yard, and if we do not want to get hit, just step out of the way. I am sure if we have to step out of the way every time we are told to, we will just keep stepping out all the time. There have been only two boys-knocked down this week. “That’s nothing!” they say; “why don’t they keep out of our way?
Hoping their games, hereafter, may be played on their regular grounds, I remain, as ever
ONE OF THE SCARED ONES
-Oct. 19,1867
Students of Notre Dame:
We wish to thank you for the sympathy expressed by you, in the lovely floral offering you sent to George as a last tribute. We want you to know that such sympathy has, in a measure, helped us to bear more bravely our great loss.
Sincerely,
Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Gipp and family
-Jan. 15,1921
Dear Sir:
Can’t something be done about the employees on the campus who have the old attitude of treating the students like dogs— can’t something be done about it? The men and women who work in the offices, library, bookstore, laundry, and the dining hall office and eating establishments, are collectively the most impolite and rude people ever assembled in one group. On any other job they would be fired. Imagine walking into any business establishment around the
country and being either ignored, insulted, or getting half-hearted service, and in many cases getting absolutely no satisfaction. Of course, there are exceptions to this complaint.......
—Name Withheld
-Oct. 4,1946
Dear Sir:
On coming to Notre Dame we had expected to find a level of intelligence far superior to that we had encountered in the armed forces.
Judging, however, by the rowdy attendance of campus movies, such is not the case. Often consisting mainly of children, Sunday matinee audiences in South Bend’s theatres show more consideration for fellow movie goers than do some of the thoughtless students attending this University. Audiences at overseas service movies were never more noisy at the sight of beauty or more derisive of tenderness than are the students here. This is a broad statement, but unfortunately true....
Robert J. Brzezinski
George J. Jansen
Eugene J. Phillips John F. McCormick Lawrence Turner, Jr. O. C. Quoidbach
-Dec. 17,1946
DEAR EDITOR:
After three years of the SCHOLASTIC in my humble life, I am convinced that you should bum each copy as it comes off the press....
This may astound you, but a weekly cannot print news! Your existence is phenomenal.
J. Sullivan
-Oct. 3,1947
LOST: ONE COAT
DEAR EDITOR:
On Wednesday morning (Oct. 8) at 9:00 a.m. I repaired to Room 112 of the Main Building for my Latin class. (It is a very enjoyable Latin class taught by Mr. Turley.) At the time I was wearing a red lumberjack coat. As the class opened I removed the coat and placed it on back of a chair. When the session had ended, I left the room and also the coat. Later I missed the coat and returned to look for it. It was not there.
Since then, I have made numerous inquiries of all parties who might have any knowledge of the whereabouts of my coat. They could not help me. It was not at the lost and found office. Nobody knows what happened to it.
Ido.
Somebody stole it.
You stole it.
Give it back.
Bring it to 202 Zahm Hall and no questions will be asked.
I was a good coat, you thief. It kept me warm and comfortable. It was like a good friend to me, a dear friend who buoyed me up in the depths of my misery. It is very sad to lose an old friend.
Perhaps you have read “The Cloak,” by Nikolai Gugol. It tells of a poor man who saves his money for many years to buy a new overcoat. A few days after he buys it, a gang of ruffians assault him and strip the coat off his back. He is so unhappy that he dies.
I don’t feel so hot myself.
Robert T. Stock
— Oct. 17,1947
FOUND: ONE COAT
DEAR EDITOR:
In reply to a letter written by Robert T. Stock of Zahm Hall:
I have read your letter in the Scholastic. I am touched. Do not lose hope because you no longer have yourred lumberjack coat, which you referred to as one of your dearest and oldest friends. It is not so old. A new friend can be purchased in the village for $18.95.
You seem to think that someone stole your coat.
You are right
I stole it.
FEBRUARY 6,1992
I won’t give it back.
It is a good coat. It keeps me warm and comfortable. Il is like a dear friend to me. It is very nice to make a new friend.
Perhaps you have read “The Deep Freeze” by Anton Frostbite. It tells of a poor man who stole a red lumberjack coat. The next day he felt sorry and returned it, no questions asked. Later he froze to death on his way to a class in economics.
I would return your coat, but you are not a real lumberjack; you should not wear a real lumberjack coat. I am a real lumberjack. I have jacked lumber all over Texas. It will be cold in Texas this winter.
I hope you do not freeze.
A Friend
-Oct. 31,1947
A FAMILIAR THEME
Editor:
After reading in the Scholastic about the problem that the freshman boys have concerning their social life, we would like to inform them that many girls here are as unsatisfied as they.
As an example, almost as many girls stayed here at school last Saturday night as went to the Victory Dance. I would like to add that these were girls that any normal American boy would enjoy escorting to a dance.
Don’t you think the boys themselves could do something about this?
Sincerely yours,
A few St. Mary’s Freshmen
-Oct. 30,1953
WHAT, NO CAP’N CRUNCH?
Editor:
This letter concerns an article about Farley Hall in “The Week” of last week’s Scholastic. It seems that Farley has been blamed for a riot in the Dining Hall. Mr. Ludy claims that Farley marched “en masse” to the Dining Hall, clobbered on the walls and screamed loud screams, toppled stacks of trays and beat the plastic plates quite ferociously.
It is quite evident to us that Mr. Luby either was not at the Dining Hall in person or that he does not know the men of Farley when he sees them.
True, the men of Farley marched “en
masse” to the Dining Hall, but this was not out of line. As far as clobbering the walls, etc. goes, maybe some of the boys of Farley did, but certainly not many. Not enough to blame the whole hall anyway. Most of the rioting was at the other end of the Dining Hall.
Men of Farley
-Nov. 21,1952
OBVIOUSLY, THIS GUY DIDN’T TALK TO SORIN
Editor:
Congratulations to you and your staff on the first issue of the Scholastic. Both in content and format you have set high standards for the balance of the academic year. I also like the new print which you have used.
Best wishes for your continued success.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Executive Vice-President
— Oct. 6,1961
THE “OTHER” SCHOLASTIC
[On of the interesting side-effects of being named Scholastic is that the magazine is sometimes confused with the other “Scholastic” — a national publication sent out to elementary schools. Sometimes letters begin “I saw the representative of your magazine on the ‘Today’ show this morning ...” More often, however, they’re more like the following:]
Scholastic Journal
Dear Sirs,
This is a poem I wrote this winter:
Me
Me is nice, Not like ice, Don’t think twice, Me is nice
Let me know if you publish it.
Sincerely, Claire Kelly
[Ed. Note: Thank you very much for the poem, Claire; of course we published it.]
15
ii
TH ANNIVERSARY
125 YEARS OF
SCHOLASTIC
A look at how Scholastic started, how its developed and where its headed
By Ian Mitchell
660 ALUTATORY! We greet the friends of Notre Dame and St.
Mary’s.”
That’s how a 125-year tradition begins, for those were the first words in the first article in the first issue of the first volume of The Scholastic Year.
The name of the new publication would change two years later to The Notre Dame Scholastic, which would then become The Scholastic or just Scholastic, depending upon which year of the magazine you consult But the little newsletter that Rev. H. N. Gillespie founded in 1867 has never reneged on its first motto: “Devoted to the interests of the students.”
Scholastic wasn’t the first student publication at Notre Dame; The Notre Dame Literary Gazette, Weekly Bee, Progress and Olympic Progress were bom, published and died before this magazine was published at the Ave Maria Press on campus.
In the first issue of Scholastic, published on Sept. 7,1867, Father Gillespie explained the purpose behind the new publication:
“We shall give an account of all the arrivals at the College and Academy, both of students and friends; of the general and relative progress of the classes; of those students who distinguish themselves in class, in study, and athletic sports, — and many other interesting items, which, though not of importance in the great world, are of great moment in the ‘STUDENTWORLD,’ and will be extremely interesting to parents.”
In other words, Scholastic began as a bulletin to parents. The magazine even printed the dates of students’ arrival at
16
•w
The Scholastic editors In 1869.
SCHOLASTIC
school so that “parents could see whether their sons had loitered on their way.” The students at school were a secondary audience to Father Gillespie, not his main readership.
Though the publication was aimed at parents, not students, some portions of the early issues of The Scholastic Year foreshadowed the student-run future. For example, it didn’t shy away from controversy.
In the second issue of its young existence (Sept. 14,1867), the magazine reported on a feathered resident of the campus: “THE EAGLE — This interesting creature was lately inducted into its new cage, which the kindness of our carpenters had provided for it”
Of course, being Scholastic, the writer was not content with the status quo: “We might suggest that, great as the trouble taken to minister to the wants of our winged friend, his new cage affords little or no protection against the inclemency of the weather. The
Unlveisiiy Archives
position also, selected for the cage, exposes its inmate to the assaults of the passers-by, and the temptation to poke at it is sometimes irresistible. We purpose that it should be placed a little to the southwest, under the branches of the honey locust which adorn that part of Brother Peter’s beautiful and blooming (principally with phlox) garden.”
The plight of the eagle was so very pressing that The Scholastic Year mentioned it again the next week: “THE EAGLE — We are sorry to see our suggestion with regard to placing the cage under the locust tree has not been attended to. The members of the Human Society, mentioned in our last [issue], should at least furnish the bird with an umbrella in rainy weather.”
While the editors of future Scholastics might grow used to seeing their editorial comments ignored, Gillespie was definitely not. On Oct. 12, in an exercise in hyperbole (and a little satire), the following item appeared:

“THE EAGLE — We are sorry we omitted to notice this useful and ornamental creature in our last issue. The eagle has been removed, though not to the locality suggested in the former issue, — a want of appreciation of the value of editorial hints to be reprobated by all who are sensible of the benefit they enjoy in the freedom of the press, and in being a fearless monitor of public morality.” From the first, Scholastic had a bit of an attitude. .
That attitude grew when, a few months
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
17
I'tisjust twenty-one years since Michigan taught us football. On attainingpur majority we showed how well we had been taught. — Nov 13, 1909, after an ND victory over Michigan. (y7
No deaths from ennui are reported among thosewhospenttheholidaysatthcunivcr-sity. —- Jan. 15, 1910
We trust the hinges of the doors in Washington Hall will be oiled before another, entertainment is held there, or at least pcr-
In Scholastic's early years, campus news sons should hot be entering and leaving was confined to a few pnc-Iincrs. Here is a : while anyone is on stage. — March 10, morc-or-less random sampling: / - . .' 1888. • ' / . f .
Shame on such small pilferers! — Oct. 5 4872^ "WW-- ? w ;■ b mwm - b?

Baths arc taken every week now instead of Every Freshman this year seemed to have ■ every two weeks. — Oct.: 17,1874 : . : a monogram on his sweater, and the wrath ■ < f J : ;	-.s . /	f ■ of the upperclassmen being aroused by the
THE INFIMAR Y —The habitues of this display, a meeting was held, and acommit-institution are becoming pretty well tee appointed to 'persuade’ the Freshmen known. We have no reference to those, who to rip off the offending letters. There has occasionally have to go thither to cure the been a decrease in monogram sweaters tooth acheor other ills to which our flesh is since. — Oct. 19,1918. ?■	7 g T
heir to; But those who seek that BLESSED :	..
ABODE inorder to sleep some the longer, FOOTBALL.—For some days previous to on the morning, and to shirk from class !Wednesday great intercst had been mani-during the day. — Oct. 12,1867	festedby our students in the football game
i '	; J . . . ' ::: . \ y which had been arranged between the
Persons who go about to the private rooms teams of the Universities of Michigan and stealing pencils and other small articles will Notre Dame. It was not considered a get their fingers burned sooner or later. match contest, as the home team had been
The seniors in the second dormitory, it • seems, have no ear for vocal music. For oft in the stilly night, with pillows tinder their; arms, forms can be seen moving in hushed stillness towards the fat man’s bed; and with bang, bang, they remind him that although his dream may be pleasant the harsh grating sound produced by his nasal organs are not. — Nov..20,1880	<• : y
later, students were put in charge of the publication (under faculty supervision, of course). With a new Latin motto of Labor Omnia Vincit (“Labor conquers all things”), the student editors resolved that their little publication should continue:
“THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR shall go on; and though it may be somewhat defective, in its young days, still we hope that, by labor and experience, we may yet make it an honor to the University.”
The student editors continued their state-
organized only a few weeks, and the Michigan boys, the champions of the West, came more to instruct them in the points of the Rugby-game than to win fresh laurels... On account of time,only apaftof one inning was played, and resulted in a score of 8 to 0 in favor of the visitors. The game wasinteresting, and, notwithstanding the slipixiry conditionof theground, the Ann Arbor boys gave a fine exhibition of skilful playing. This occasion has started an enthusiastic football boom, and it is hoped that coming years will witness a series of these contests. -—-Nov. 26,1887
ment with a few complaints which future generations of Scholastic editors could sympathize with: “We shall endeavor, hereafter, to add a little more life to our paper. The local news of Notre Dame, during the past.winter, has been somewhat monotonous. But gentle Spring, with its life and gayety will soon be here, and we shall try to make our local columns more interesting.”
The local columns, filled with brief campus notes, were in fact about the only interesting news in The Scholastic Year, the remainder of the publication filled with the texts of sermons, the names of honored pupils and the compositions of faculty and students.
Occasionally, the magazine would print an obituary. In the 1890s it printed an obituary that meant the end of an era:
“NOTRE DAME is plunged in deepest grief and affliction because of the death of her revered founder, the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. On Tuesday of last week, at a quarter of ten o’clock in the morning, the noble, gifted soul of the venerable patriarch passed peacefully from earth, thus closing a life full of years and merits before God and man.” — Nov. 11, 1893
Scholastic kept printing sermons and compositions, often including quite a bit of poetry. Some of it was very serious, some of it was definitely not From the second issue in 1867, Scholastic (or rather — The Notre Dame Scholastic — its official name as of 1869) had included humor. The “Safety Valve” column included poetry and one liners, the name of the column indicating that students, even decades ago, wanted relief from the pressure-cooker of campus schoolwork,
Scholastic also published reviews of entertainment like the silent movies playing at Washington Hall. The magazine gave rave reviews to Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks and Dorothy Gish,as well as a crucial local figure: “Dillion J. Patterson, Notre Dame’s nimble-fingered keyboard artist, interpreted the action and gave melodic expression to the actors in a finely-rendered accopaniment.” (Feb. 15,1919)
Scholastic also recorded the arrival of the firstNotre Dame coeds: nuns and lay women were allowed to take classes during the new
______	Cher		 Fyfra Notre Dame -Scholastic Fvtra LAU a ixrce<}paJi-j€mpcr^VlcbiruJ-Vl?e-Q^	_
----- — -----
COACH KK ROCKNEKILLED
Famed Notre Dame Mentor Din In Gtih Near Emporia# Kanrai
Campus Stirred by Newt of Knute Roclcnc’i Tragic Death
A* •rws lb* Smh IHw Uul KmU K«ri»» had kn lra<nllr klUH la to alqdaM-
This is the cover of Scholastic as It appeared on March 31,1931, following Knute Rockne’s death.
summer session in 1919. Campus concerns took a back seat to World War I as the Student’s Army Training Corps took over the campus.
The pages of Scholastic were soon filled with letters from soldiers fighting overseas. Tommy Glynn wrote in one letter to Father Cavanaugh, then-president of the university: “Dear Father—Evetfif I cannot be with you this year, I mustreport to my mother, for Notre Dame is a second mother to me. And she will have me again after the war.
“I have put in some time on the front, and am now back behind the lines for a little rest This war is‘some game.’ Itis the only thing I have ever found that is rougher thah interhall football was when I began playing it at N.D.” - France, August 29,1918.
According to a later issue of the magazine, 2093 men identified with Notre Dame went into wartime service. Scholastic later listed a roll call of 47 names who did not return.
Other names featured in the magazine would be familiar to today’s readers, as figures like Walsh, Cavanaugh and Zahm worked on the campus which would later immortalize them with buildings.
After the war, Scholastic continued more or less as before. A personals column recorded the activities of alumns. A “Hobnails” gossip-humor column became “The Wink” (similar to today’s CampusWatch). A “College Parade” column was a direct ancestor of our “On Other Campuses.”
18
SCHOLASTIC
College life as usual was again interrupted by tragedy, as another heroically-large campus figure died in 1931:
“It has been said many times that Rockne has been more to the men of Notre Dame than a genius who led its athletic teams to astounding victories on the gridiron. And now that he has departed from this life, the fact will be more vividly outstanding. He has been an inspiration, in the most glorious sense of the word,” eulogized The Scholastic in a special edition issued the day of Rockne’s death, March 31.
“No figure in the field of sports has ever been so sincerely and so universally loved as this great man. His strength of character, his winning personality, his untiring devotion to his Alma Mater have made him a personage admired and respected by all who knew him. The master has passed. The SCHOLASTIC joins with the voices of everyone in regret at his death, but regret is tempered with faith. As Father O’Hara says in his Religious Bulletin for today, ‘We may feel that the Mother of God took care of him in his hour of need.’”
A decade later the campus was again united in prayer after the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. After Congress’ declaration of war on Dec. 8,1941, Scholastic printed the text of a bulletin issued by Fr. Hugh O’Donnell, then-president of the university:
“Today Notre Dame is one. She has known the grim horrors of past wars. The fact is that the peaks of her history are shrouded in the mists of war. In accordance with her strong tradition of patriotism, the
The production of Scholastic in 1943 In the Composing Room.
University pledges unswerving loyalty and devotion to the Commander-in-Chief of our country and places her facilities at his disposal. We stand united behind him and pray hourly to God to strengthen his arm during the perilous days that lie ahead. We also bespeak Divine Guidance for Congress and all military and civil authorities in the execution of their trust so that in due time our country may be victorious and peace may be restored to the people of the world who love and cherish it”
Fr, O’Donnell’s promise thatNotre Dame was at the President’s disposal was not an empty one. On January 13 he announced that Notre Dame would switch to and accelerated three term schoolyear to help students finish school faster and join the military.
Notre Dame also became a major center for the training of Navy midshipmen during World War II.
Scholastic added a Navy page column which gradually expanded to a page, then two. The magazine’s publishing schedule matched the new year-round university schedule — a big part of the reason this is Scholastic’s 125th year and the magazine is already on Volume 133.
Then, on Nov. 12,1943, in the first issue of the semester, a tersely-worded editorial describe a “New Scholastic” as a “coalition of the old SCHOLASTIC and the much talked of but never published service men’s paper, the Mariner.
“This is the 76th year in which the SCHOLASTIC has been published as a general
Father Carey - A Notre Dame Leader
for 70 Years
I
by Michael Owen
jO ather Charles M. Carey arrived atNotre IT Dame in 1922 at age 13 as a student in the high school and, as he says, “I’ve never left.” There has been a wide variety of people involved with Scholastic and other campus publications atNotre Dame through. the years. Yet perhaps no one has been involved with these publications and Notre Dame for as long as Father Carey.
Carey began his relationship with campus publications in 1935 when he became an editor of the Ave Maria Press. After spending his high school years in the seminary at Notre Dame, Carey majored in philospohy as did all the seminarians. Upon completing his degree, Carey secured a position teaching English on campus. It was in 1938 that he took charge of the student publications. “There were just two publications, the. Dome yearbook and Scholastic magazine. There was no daily newspaper at the time,” Carey said. "Scholastic took the place of The Observer as a weekly. It was the news magazine with literary articles, poetry, short stories, a humor column and a chronicle of events that went on at Notre Dame. It was the source of information on the campus,” Carey said.
The magazine was completely student run at the time except for Carey’s faculty advising. Students would type their articles in their room and have them edited and printed at the Ave Maria Press. Carey was there “to see that they didn’ t write something that was immoral or tacky. It was ‘respectable reporting,’” Carey said. There were also no editorial or point of view sections of the magazine. Circulation was much smaller in those days as the campus contained just over 3000 residents.
FEBRUARY 6,1992
During World ||||g|||||||^^
War II, R.O.T.C. MEbhHmH members and
Women Accepted
for Voluntary ■HMBHEgERgHR Emergency Ser-
vice (WAVES) BnHMHM would supply mili- |||||||j^^ tary articles. The ISIIIIm
campus was HwBHHHHhHBM drained of its stu- KhHHHMMkK dents as the mili- mMkHBhHHM tary draft ex- B||||||H panded. Notre
Dame was largely
a naval base during	While most
the war with only	Father Carey
around 300 nonmilitary residents
on campus. Scholastic returned to its original format after the war. It was not until the arrival of The Observer as a daily news source th&tScholastic reorganized its format with less emphasis on daily campus information.
Carey suggests that a look through the bound volumes of Scholastic can reflect the real differences in the University and the changes he has witnessed. Notre Dame was a small school prior to the 1930’s as evidenced by the campus dimensions. St. Edward’s Hall was the furthest building east. Badin, with its infamous ‘bog’, was the furthest point south on campus. Everything past Badin including the Burke Memorial Golf Course was a working farm for students of agriculture. “ A great deal of the classes were taught in the Main Building and all of the offices were on the ground floor. Professors had no offices or secretaries,” Carey said. Most professors lived off campus and rode the five-cent streetcar to campus. The bachelor professors, or “the dons” lived in
Nick Spanflier students find four years too short, has been able to contribute to Notre
Dame for 70 years.
the dormitories and acted as prefects helping the rector of the hall. There were prefects of discipline or religion on every floor of a hall. The nuns did all of the cooking and laundry for the students. “There were lots of rules” in those days and, of course, “lights out” occurred daily at 11 p.m.
In 1952, Carey ended his tenure with student publications and became VicePresident for Students Affairs and helped Cardinal O’Hara publish the Religious Bulletin. Carey recalls O’Hara advising him “don’t go over one sheet, you’ll lose the readers.” Carey was also a campus minister and Prefect of Religion. At 84, he is currently retired yet still celebrates mass. While many of his counterparts in campus ministry have had transfers to the University of Portland, Kings College, and Stonehill College, the native of Kokomo, Indiana has remained at Notre Dame for virtually all of his life and takes pride in saying he “greatly enjoyed the work here.”	□
19
|	news interest publication of happenings and
iq events at Notre Dame. This is die first time i:	that the organization and staff of the paper
had to be reorganized to meet new require-j!:	ments. Last semester the magazine was said
L to lack interest for the service men on H campus. We trust that this will not happen h	again because the present staff is composed
j ■	of three civilians, two marines, and	two
; |	seamen.”
i ’ The Navy did figure large in the copy of i	the wartime Scholastic, but when the	war
ii;	was over, the midshipmen dwindled,	and
the magazine reverted to its pre-war ways.
ft As large as the Navy presence at Notre Dame was during the 1940s, Father
।:	Theodore M. Hesburgh was to prove even
I more influential on the future of the school.
T Scholastic’s first editorial of the 1952 ,:	school year congratulated the new presi-
L dent. “He has taken on the spiritual, mate-;• rial, and physical leadership of more than 5000 faculty members and students. He is the one man who must answer the question ‘:	‘Which way Notre Dame?’ during the next
।;	three years.” ’ Hesburgh answered this
j	questions through his leadership, which
H	lasted not just three years, but until 1987,
;	when current president Fr. Edward Malloy
p	took office.
•;	During Hesburgh’s tenure, the magazine
; took on a form that would include many elements familiar to today’s reader. The i “Back Page” or “Last Word” column was a version of today’s “Final Word” column which is written by non-staff members.
; “The Week in Distortion” and “Coming Distractions” appeared. During the 1960s ! Scholastic published a series of course evaluation issues, a tradition that the magazine has recently revived.
In the 1970s production slipped to a bi-i weekly schedule; The Observer took over I	timely local reporting as the magazine fea-
£	tured more stories and artwork and less
timelyreporting. Scholastic soon became a !	monthly as it’s fiction and opinion emphasis
grew. Butin 1985 Scholastic moved back to biweekly publication and again became weekly in 1986.
• Through all the changes, through all the i years, most Scholastic staffers would echo the words of the first student editors in their hopes for the publication: “we hope that, by labor and experience, we may... make it an honor to the University.”	□
The seriousness of Adele Lanan’s handsome, dark-panelled office is softened by rows of brightly-colored folders, stacks of paperwork, brochures, and publications that spill out of the shelves that line the walls and onto every available inch of the amply-sized desktop.
When one discovers that her
The “Media-tor” explained that Scho-
work as assistant director of student activities includes advising the staff of Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, the Freshman Register (read: “Dogbook”), Multicultural Executive Council, Student Government, and the two campus radio stations, the organized clutter in her office isn’t surprising.
Over the past seven years as advisor for Scholastic, among her other roles, Lanan has learned the fine art of tact and good judgement. “The tough part about my position is that there is such a fine line... that you walk between supervising and advising... trying to stand back and let the students do their thing, even though you may have seen other students maybe make the same mistake.
“The other difficult line to walk is the line that you have between trying to be a proponent of students, yet keeping one foot in the administration’s door.” Though she feels she always has to support the university, Lanan nevertheless encourages students to take an active interest in campus politics, including questioning the actions of the administration.
“With the media there are so many sensitive issues... so I kind of see myself as being a liaison ... acting as the go-between for students and the administration, explaining to the administration the efforts of the students and trying to support them.”
Her longevity also allows Lanan to offer continuity to the magazine. For example, when the current staff wants “to do something that another editorial staff has already tried, I can direct them. I can
discuss previous barriers or previous successes.”
Lanan’s position also comes in handy concerning purchases or policy changes for the magazine, which can take six months to two years to accomplish. The purchase of the delivery cart for the magazine, which took at least a year and a half, is one example.
lastic formerly used golf carts to deliver the magazine. “Every single year during senior week, the seniors would pick up the cart and one of the senior stunts for the week would be to throw Scholastic’s delivery cart in St. Mary’s lake, ” she said with a wry smile. “S o I found a vehicle they couldn’t put in gear.” The assistant director also worked with two editorial staffs to get the administration to allow the magazine to use advertising.
“When I started in this office Scholastic was only coming out twice a semester,... and barely! I worked with the student staff then, which was very energetic and motivated, and got them rolling again to be biweekly.” This feat later called for another policy change for the magazine to become a weekly.
Lanan gives much of the credit for the recent changes in Scholastic to the students. “The editorial staff... has had a lot of motivation, a lot of energy and a lot of determination, and some really professional people — probably more this year than any other year. I’ve seen incredible growth.”
The relationship between the administration and Scholastic has sometimes been rocky, but Lanan believes that “they [the administration] appreciate the in-depth reporting. I think that sometimes Scholastic may report on sensitive issues, but... as long as it’s done professionally, ... the university does not have a negative relation to [the magazine]. Theymightnotlike what is always written, but as long as it’s done in a journalistically sound way, that’s O.K.” □	— By Elizabeth Baytion
20
SCHOLASTIC
The Scholastic
Suspension
Publication clashes with the Office of Student Activities over censored artwork
by Margaret Kenny
On February 22, 1987, Scholastic received a letter from Joseph A. Cassidy, Director of Student Affairs, announcing the publication’s immediate suspension as a result of its inclusion of a photograph that had previously been removed from th& Juggler, Notre Dame’s literary magazine. The suspension lasted only a few days before Student Activities and Scholastic came to an agreement concerning the rights of the student publication, yet the incident brought to light questions of university censorship and the freedom of student press.
The controversy over censorship among the university’s student-run publications began in the fall of 1986, when Adele Lanan, the student affairs administrator who acts as the adviser to student publications, removed a piece of artwork from the Juggler. The controversial piece was a photograph of an artistic work by Nick Antonakis, then a graduate student, which, Lanan told Scholastic in its February 19,1987 issue, “would be offensive to our community” if printed in the literary magazine.
In the same issue, Scholastic included an article questioning artistic freedom versus good taste in reaction of the alleged censorship by Student Activities. Without prior knowledge or permission of the Student Activities Office, Scholastic’s editorial
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
board chose to publish the possibly offensive artwork.
Antonakis’ piece was a monotype which was described by the artist in Scholastic as “a very personal, very emotional piece.” The piece, in itself, is ambiguous. Antonakis’ style uses a mixture of dark and light shades which, the artist said, often makes the figures appear androgenous. The monotype features two figures in what could be considered a compromising and intimate position. Yet, due to Antonakis’
• M uSt6dent media sii^
sorship andadvance Approval
style, it is difficult to discern the exact positions of the figures.
As a response to Scholastic’s action, the Office of Student Activities closed the office and removed all copies of the magazine from . distribution. On February 24,1987 Cassidy told the South Bend Tribune that the suspension would be in effect until “the two sides could get together on how they’re supposed to be operating.”
Cassidy also had the locks to the office changed to prevent the staff from entering the office during the suspension. He claimed that he was reacting to events he had
witnessed at another university, where students wrecked their office after apublication was suspended. Cassidy later promised to reopen the Scholastic office.
After several days of debate between the student-run publication and the Office of Student Activities, an agreement was reached and released to the public on February 26, 1987. The parties agreed that “all editorial decisions concerning Scholastic magazine’s content will remain with its student editors and that Scholastic will be free ofpriorapprovalofcopy.” Furthermore, the magazine’s editorial board agreed to keep Student Activities informed of pertinent issues through an ongoing dialogue. As of that afternoon, the Scholastic suspension was lifted.
The reinstatement of Scholastic was encouraging, showing consideration to the freedom of student press. The Office of Student Activities upheld the policies stated in DuLac. “Student media should be free of censorship and advance approval of copy... this editorial freedom entails the corollary responsibility to be governed by the canons of responsible print and broadcast journalism.”
In the March 5,1987 issue of Scholastic, the first issue published after the suspension, an editorial was printed, stating that the decision to reinstate the publication was “in line with the democratic notion of a free press, as well as the mission of the university.”	□
21
I1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
Every
Friday
12:00-2:00
Take a break from the dining halls! You deserve
FRIDAY LUNCH
at
pm
■ ■■ ALUMNI SENIOR ‘ ' ' . ..
SCLUB
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Subs Burgers Pizza
Alumni-Senior Club is open every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night From 9:00 pm until 2:00 am
^Budgeteer
motor inn
SING
IE
I.D. Required
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
Subscribe to Scholastic Join us as we celebrate our 125th year and follow the Fighting Irish all year long!
Please send year(s) of Scholastic to:
Name:_____________
Address:..
City:State:Zip:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x year(s) = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager; Scholastic; 303 LaFortune; Notre Dame, IN 46556
An ambiance that contributes to dining pleasure-
a delightfully carpeted dining room
complimented by walls warmly decorated in
gold and beige, lit by subdued lighting from brass chandeliers and ^wondrous and exclusive view of the NotfeDarheiskyline. ;
XX S.X
CELEBRATEVXEFmNE'S DAY
with a touch of:class-■ 77	.
^Italian Ristorante''
|
Select your dinner from some 40 entrees, including Prime Rib, Chicken Cacciatore, Fettuccine. Alfredo, Veal Piccata, Bracioletti, Steak Alla
X I &	?
Pizzaiola, Shells Florentine and Linguini Alla Scampi. X/? j	'
Champagne, your favorite wines, domestic and imported beers and your favorite cocktails of
Share in their growth to full manhood
course.
1412 South Bend Avenue, South Bend, Indiana Reservations accepted, (219) 232-4244
If you would like to know about ust — contact:
Fr. Thomas Conlon, SMA
SMA Fathers, Dept. NDS
23 Bliss Ave., Tenafly, NJ 07670 201-567-0450
FEBRUARY 6, 1992	/	23
______FINAL WORD
Scholastic
Remembered I yJackPo ere
Jack Powers served as, editor in chief from 195152 and is currently a Notre Dame adjunct associate professor of American Studies
Young people aren’t much for anniversaries.
They might note special times in their parents’ lives and that sort of thing, but red-letter days are mostly for the aging.
Surely that is the way it should be. For most students, life’s great adventures lie ahead.
Sometimes, though... Sometimes we mark milestones significant enough to stir the interest of everybody, regardless of age. The sesquicentennial of theUniversity of Notre Dame du Lac is a splendid example.
The celebration has been great so far. Now, in the context of the sesquicentennial, comes another anniversary, of passing note to some and passionate pride to others.
This year Notre Dame’s student magazine, Scholastic, celebrates the 125th year of its founding. It is the oldest continuously published college student journal in the United States. You can count newspapers, magazines, weighty quarterlies or what have you, it doesn’t matter. Scholastic is the granddaddy, the senior, the pioneer that endured.
It is a startling fact, one that sneaks up on you arid tweaks your memory. Is it really true? Where did itall go? If I was around for the 85th birthday, I’m getting old. And not nearly as enduring as Scholastic.
Here is where student eyes can glaze. Reminiscence by an old boy will do that, especially when it comes from a Domer. We may be the worst That always comes with true believers.
There is one saving grace, however, and it is what gives the anniversary meaning. Continuity. The experiences, triumphs, disappointments, highs and lows of a Scholastic staffer who graduated two years ago are as true and valid as one who graduated two decades ago. Or four decades ago. The problems are also very much the same. So is the satisfaction.
That is sure to rile somebody. There is always someone somewhere who insists “it was tougher in my day.” Bosh. Nonsense. In that century and a quarter, copy has been delivered in pencil, pen, on typewriters and now computer terminals. But the copy brought the same work whatever the era; the work offered the same rich challenge. It still does.
That challenge was not always met with equal fervor, or talent or care for so long a time. Scholastic, in fact, has been different things over the generations. It was once more a literary magazine than a chronicle. After World War I it evolved into a news magazine, the only campus-wide forum in existence. The advent of the student daily, inevitable on a campus as thriving as Notre Dame, was as historical inevitable as broadcasting.
The Observer grew into a first-class newspaper, emphasizing news and missing little. It left Scholastic free to be a general interest magazine, an essential on a campus such as ours, a role it fills with zeal and flair. It is not only a matter of room for both, but need for both.
The two have profited enormously from the presence of women on the staff and lately in top positions. Anyone who edited the magazine in the long-ago can see the difference. There is better balance and a far better reflection of a heartening generation. .
There may be people in the administration who lack this enthusiasm for the current crop, but there can’tbe many. The students are too sensible and too often right. And if there is an area where today’s editors can be instructed about the tough old days, it is Scholastic’s relationship with the administration, which is, after all, owner and publisher of the thing.
Scholastic veterans will be interested to know that flareups between the two are few and silly confrontations rare. The credit goes not to any students so much as it does to Ted Hesburgh and Father Charles Carey, who brought the heretical idea of common sense and moderation to their relations with student editors. If there is a “new era” in Scholastic's history, it was then.
When former Scholastic editors gather here this weekend for memories and serious discussion, there will be surely talk of how it all survived for so long. Many reasons, including luck, of course. But there is a factor rarely ever mentioned today in modem, sophisticated universities beholden only to themselves and their fund-raisers.
Notre Dame has never treated God as dead, passe or unconstitutional. That ought to help Scholastic’s fortune in the next 125 years.	□
24
SCHOLASTIC
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Join 125 years of tradition
Applications are now available for all of the following paid positions on the '92-'93 Scholastic editorial board:
Editor in Chief Managing Editor News Editor Sports Editor Campus Life Editor Entertainment Editor Departments Editor
Copy Editor Photo Editor Layout Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
Applications can be picked up at the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune, between 2 and 5 p.m.. Monday— Friday. Applications for Editor in Chief are due Friday, Feb. 14. Applications for all other positions are j due Friday, Feb. 21.
Experience is preferred, but not necessary. All majors ' and years are encouraged to apply. Questions? Call 239-7569.
@tje ^clptlas tic IJcnv.
SUB at the Movies...
THURSDAY
FEBRUARY 6
FRIDAY
FEBRUARY 7	&
SATURDAY
FEBRUARY
8:00 and 10:30 PM Cushing Auditorium Admission : $2
STUDENT UNION BOARD