w rora am
mOUBTIC
umu (flmpus nous- mpffliinc
RADIO DIRECTOR MILLER GIVES TIPS
Putting Final Touches on Tonight's Varsity Show
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
VARSITY SHOW TONIGHT "B" DEBATERS SUCCESSFUL BENGAL PRELIMINARY DATE
BENGAL BOUTS TRAINING DRAKE TRACK MEET BASKETEERS FACE MINNESOTA
THE WEEK INTRODUCING SPLINTERS FROM PRESS BOX
MARCH 5.1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
BIG COAST-TO-COAST BROADCAST
NOTRE DAME NIGHT
ON PONTIAC’S
SEE AND HEAR THE NOTRE DAME BAND, THE GLEE CLUB AND THE FINEST
CAMPUS TALENT TAKE PART IN A
GREAT NATION-WIDE RADIO PROGRAM
TONIGHT AT 9:30 P. M. • GYMNASIUM
Everybody out tonight for Notre Dame’s own “Big Broadcast for 1937”—the gayest, liveliest show you ever saw. See the best of campus musical and dramatic talent . . . see John Held, Jr. . . . watch the sparkling show that all America will be listening to. Free tickets • are still available—but hurry!
The Cream of Notre Dame Talent Will, Prove that Notre Dame Rules the Air
Be There—"The Audience is Part of the Show”-Be There
GET YOUR FBEE TICKET AT ALUMNI OFFICE—ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Vol. 70
March 5, 1937
No. 18
NAME 55TH WINNER OF LAETARE MEDAL AWARD SUNDAY
NOTRE DAME ON AIR FROM COAST-TO-COAST TONIGHT AS THOUSANDS FILL GYM TO HEAR PONTIAC VARSITY SHOW
By Richard Riley
Announcement of the winner of the Laetare Medal, annually bestowed by the University of Notre Dame upon some member of the Catholic laity, will be released by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., on Sunday, March 7.
The occasion will mark the fifty-fifth awarding of the medal to some outstanding Catholic layman.
The Laetare medal has been presented each year since 1883 and is recognized as the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
It was first suggested in 1882 when Prof. James F. Edward submitted the idea to the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, and the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., at that time president of the University. The custom first originated with the papal practice of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility, on Laetare Sunday.
The attractive medal is composed of a solid gold disc hung from a gold bar bearing the inscription “Laetare Medal.” The sentence Magna est veritas et praevalebit (Truth is mighty and will prevail), is inscribed (Continued on Page 22)
Tonight the “Fighting Irish” ride the airwaves.
Through the sponsorship of the Pontiac Motor Company, Notre Dame takes its turn on the Varsity show series over the red network of the National Broadcasting Company tonight at 9:30.
The program will be carried direct from the gymnasium ovei- a total of
Jersey Club Breakfast Set For March 14;
Fr. Hope fo Talk
•
The New Jersey Club will hold a Communion Breakfast, Sunday morning, March 14, it was announced by Joe Quinn, president, at a meeting held in the north basement of the Library last Thursday night.
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., will appear’ as the principal speaker, and Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, will also address the group.
The Communion Breakfast, under the direction of Frank Reilly, chairman, will take place in the Lay Faculty dining hall at 9:15 o’clock, after the 8:00 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The breakfast is open to the student body and will cost 35 cents a plate.
Tickets may be obtained from the chairman, or from club members who will canvass the halls within the next week.
. At the meeting, Joe Moore, vicepresident of the club, read the official financial report of the Christmas dance as submitted by Ray Geiger, ’33, president of the alumni club.
Plans for two basketball games, to be played against the Met Club and the Missouri Club, were discussed. Fifteen men offered to play in these two inter-club games, the dates for which have not, as yet, been definitely set.
President Quinn announced that. the railroad rates will be the same for the Easter vacation as they were at Christmas.
some eighty stations from coast to coast. Albert G. Miller, representative of Henry Souvaine, Inc., which produces the show, has been on the campus since last Monday selecting material for the broadcast.
Radiomen Barbush and McNally Clarinet and comedy on N.B.C.
Cartoonist John Held, Jr., master-of-ceremonies for the entire series, will be in direct charge of the program and will introduce the various numbers as well as read a short historical sketch of the University. The program was assembled and worked out through the efforts of Mr. Miller and a faculty committee consisting of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Prof. Joseph Casasanta, Mr. James Armstrong, Prof. Richard Sullivan, Prof. Thomas Barry, and Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C.
The program will be made up chiefly of instrumental numbers from the musical organizations on the campus and from various soloists. This, the seventh of the series of Varsity Shows, promises to be the best presented to date. Equipment for the broadcast has been installed in the gym under the supervision of Mr. Miller.
Student tickets were distributed at noon today in the University Dining Halls. Those attending the show are urged to arrive at least fifteen minutes before the start of the show as none will be admitted while the pro-
(Continued on Page 21)	-
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
BENGAL ASPIRANTS FLASH FORM IN TRAINING FOR PRELIMINARIES, MARCH 15-16; BEST BOUTS IN HISTORY PREDICTED
"HINDU FAKIR TRICK11 SNORTS FOGEL AT RACE'S RUSE
Ten days of intensive training are all that separate 75 hopefuls from the Bengal Bout preliminaries set for Monday and Tuesday, March 15 and 16. Trainer Frank Schiavone stated this week that it might be necessary to hold three sets of preliminary bouts to handle the aspirants.
From the entire crew 16 will step into the ring on Friday, March 19, to battle for Bengal Crowns in their various divisions.
For the preliminary bouts ten cents admission will be charged each night. In the past these trial bouts proved almost as interesting and spectacular as the final show—lacking, of course, the championship glamor.
Details of the final show are nearly closed. Negotiations are still going forward for the services of a national headliner to act as Honorary Referee. If some outstanging sport figure can be secured he will probably handle the heavyweight championship bout.
“Everything points to the biggest, most successful show on record,” promoter Jim Waldron said this week. “We have received fine cooperation from everyone involved in any way— the fighters are in great shape, student interest is at a' peak and we should have a real banner performance.”
Tickets for the Bouts will go on sale in each hall on Tuesday, March 9. Scholastic staff members along with student managers will canvass each floor of each hall. The traditional price of 25 cents will again be in effect.
Replacing the famous Conner-Tan-credit wrestling farce of last year will be an equally adept duo composed of Joe Race and John Fogel, both are excellent wrestlers as well as high class entertainers. In rehearsal they have turned in some highly colorful performances and should produce a top-notch- show.
Head of Hibernians To Speak to Lawyers
The next meeting of the Law Club will be held Thursday night, March 11, with Francis Dunn, senior lawyer from Joliet, Hl., as toastmaster.
The principal speaker of the evening will be Mr. James E. Deery, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1910, and he will probably talk- on ■“Municipal Corporations.”
Two Groups Inaugurate Bookmen Discussion Policy Wednesday
•
A new method of introducing discussion in Bookmen meetings was announced at the annual Communion breakfast held Sunday, February 28, in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
According to the new arrangement, members will be appointed to investigate some phase of literature and then informally introduce and discuss it in any manner they see fit during the meeting. There will be two members in each group.
For the next meeting, March 10, two groups were appointed to inaugurate the new policy. John Shaw and Bob Mullen, both of Alumni Hall, compose the first group; and John Walsh and Vincent DeCoursey, of Lyons Hall, make up the second.
The highlight of the breakfast was . the review of T. S. Elliot’s Murder in the Cathedral by Frank O’Laughlin, sophomore of Morrissey Halil. After the review the club, undei* the direction of Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator, held a short discussion of the review.
• -
By Harold A. Williams
“Call it the “Battle of Love.’ ” .
In those words Milwaukee’s pride, Joe Race, football guard, speech major, actor, and man about town, summed up his coming wrestling match with “The Pride of Hege-wisch,” John (“Baldy”) Fogel, at the Bengal Bouts in the gym on the 19th.
“You see, Bud, it’s all because of a dame,” mused Mr. Race as he daintily placed a scented cigarette in a monogrammed jade cigarette holder. “She comes from Chicago, but just the same she’s grand. She used to be Fogel’s steady . . . until I came on the scene,” he added with a short laugh, blowing a rather uneven smoke ring in our direction.
“Na, I don’t need to train. You see, Bud, I’m not .expecting much competition.” At this time a vivid light of expectancy shone in her blue eyes. “Fogel ain’t good, besides I’ve got a special trick worked out. I can’t lose. I’m going to hypnotize him before I give him my special. I call it the “Square Knot.” I picked it up in the Boy Scout Camp last summer.”
Handing us the cigarette holder, Mr. Race stood a three-quarter’s filled laundry bag in the middle of the room. After making several hypnotic gestures in its direction, he proceeded to apply the “Square Knot” (“never been used in a ring before”). “Of course,” said Mr. Race as he practically turned the bag inside out,
(Continued on Page 9)
Writhing in agony is “Popeye” Race as Fogel gives him the pressure with a vicious arm-lock.
“Routine stuff,” Fogel says, “Nothing like the Flying Jasper I’ll hang on him during the Bengal Bouts on March 19.”
“He can’t hurt me,” Race snorts back, “in fact he can’t lick his weight in Dixie cups. It’ll be a massacre.”
We leave it to you and the Fates.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
SPOOKY HOOKS FOOL HACK IN GHOSTLY WORK-OUTS
High in the eerie and rarified atmosphere of Alumni Tower in the blinking light of torches two men work while the campus sleeps. They work with a grim intensity and a ghostly vengeance.
Stepping lightly around the dust covered floor is the chief worker, Jim “Shadow” Hack. His work is sober —he’s training for the Bengal Bouts. Dancing ahead of Hack, eluding his vicious blows with the ease of a spring zephyr, is the “Grappling Ghost”—scourge of the nether-world, the hardest hitter west of the Styx.
Disguised as a torch we watched a midnight w’orkout this week and bring you a camera recording of a tense moment.
For 30 minutes the pair slashed at each other’s weak spots. Hack with the hard-hitting fury that brought him laurels last year. The ghost hit warily, sneaking across a right, a left, a fortissimo one-two, and then vanished for a second as he rained a tattoo of upper-cuts from out of the fourth dimension. Hack was bewildered.
Toward the end of the hour, with the flames flickering lower, Hack solved the ghostly defense slightly— closing his eyes he started one from the floor. No sound was heard at first, then a gentle swish as of a w’arm shower, then a moan, then a cry—“I musta been in a transom!”
Hack made a brief statement:
“He’s tough, he’s rough and he can take it. If I can see ’em I can beat ’em—but this ghost don’t bruise easy. I predict a knock-out though — I’ll ride him down like a Cossack, in fact, I’ll pierce him!”
The ghost, on very ghostly flat feet, said:
“Last week I went four with the ghost of Napoleon, I challenged Samson’s ghost—I’ll take this Hack for a ride.”
Reyniers Hails Catholic Scientific Research
Professor James A. Reyniers, of the department of biology of the University, was the principal speaker at the Toledo Catholic Forum, Tuesday, March 2.
The talk was entitled “Scientific Research in Catholic Colleges and Universities” and in it Mr. Reyniers pointed out the research work done in several outstanding Catholic institutions. The achievements of several noted Catholic scientists were cited, among them Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., whose work on synthetic rubber* brought national attention.
"B" SQUAD SCORES NINE VICTORIES IN STATE DEBATE MEET; VARSITY ON EDGE TODAY FOR MIDWEST INVITATIONAL
By Robert McClain
Establishing a better record than that of last year, the University “B” debating team won nine debates and dropped one contest in the state tournament held last Friday and Saturday at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana. The host school was the only contestant that matched the Notre Dame । record.
Ghostly Goings-on
Hack looks over “Grappling Ghost.”
Notre Dame Short Story Writers Among Best O’Brien Declares
•
Notre Dame has sent forth some of the best short story writers of the present day declared Edward J. O’Brien, of Oxford University, England, who for the past 22 years has been editing the year’s best short stories. Mr. O’Brien, who is making a lecture tour of the United States, delivered two lectures Monday in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. He spoke on “The Catholic Elizabethan Poets,” and the “The American Short Story.”
Among the outstanding Notre Dame writers Mr. O’Brien listed Harry Sylvester, Louis Brennan, and Mattingly Spalding.
Pointing to the quality short story that is being produced in America today Mr. O’Brien remarked:
“Only two per cent of the American short stories being written today are good reading. The other 98 per cent are extremely bad.”
“These stories that are being
('Continued on Page 8)
Arguing the varsity question: “Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare,” the negative team won its five debates with Indiana university, Wayne university, Western State Teachers college, Purdue university and Bowling Green college. The affirmative team dropped one contest to Manchester college and defeated Akron college, Goshen college, Bowling Green college and Illinois Normal college.
Professor Joseph Apodaca, assistant professor of economics, accompanied the team and acted as one of the judges. No official score was announced for the meet.
In a non-decision debate last Sunday evening in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, the varsity negative team met the affirmative team of St. Xavier college from Cincinnati, Ohio.
Leonard Gardner and Vincent Smith of St. Xavier college, upholding the affirmative side of the question: “Resolved; That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry,” centered their pleas on the “sweat shop” and “cut throat” competition. Arguing further, the affirmative team maintained that if -Congress were given the prescribed powers, the position of the laborer would be elevated by giving him security.
The negative team of Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, questioned the basis for the administration and enforcement of the affirmative’s plan. Osborn also stated that the plan of Congress would not be a “cure-all” for the “sweat shop’r and “cut throat” competition.
The Varsity affirmative and negative team left Wednesday to participate in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Fifteen universities and colleges have entered the tournament.
The first of the dual debates with Michigan State will be held at Lansing, Mich., next Monday. On Thursday, March 11, Michigan State will, oppose the Notre Dame debaters here. Mr. J. McBerney of Northwestern university will act as judge for the debate.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
PRESSMEN HEAR LINN ON NEWS. FEATURES. AND PROPAGANDA
James Weber Linn, professor, journalist, and author, was the guest speaker last night at the annual Notre Dame Press club dinner held in the Faculty dining hall.
Immediately following the dinner, John Cackley, president of the Press
James Weber Linn Has a three-way job.
Grogan. Sidler To Lead Forum on Prayer
Edward Grogan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, will lead the affirmative speakers, and August Sidler a junior in the same college, the negative when the 22 members of the Chesterton society discuss the question, “Is Prayer Necessary?” The topic, to be debated Monday night in the regular weekly meeting, is one of three selected by the group last week.
“Our Lady and Her Position in Catholicism” and “Infalibility, Its Genuinity and Meaning,” will be discussed at later meetings. William Botzum, charter member of the Chesterton society was elected secretary to fill the vacancy left by Bertram Smith. All three of the topics will be managed with the aid of the Catholic Evidence Training Outline presented the group by its publisher, Francis Sheed.
James K. Nerney, president, announced that Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University, ■will invite Mr. J. H. Breig, journalist and leader in apologetics to address the group at a future meeting. The invitation will be extended at the suggestion of Mr. Sheed. .	.
WHITE HUSSARS HERE WEDNESDAY; STARS HERBERT PETRIE
•
The White Hussars, a symphonic and operatic octette under the direction of Mr. Herbert Petrie, one of America’s foremost cornetists, will appear in a concert in Washington Hall, Wednesday evening, March 10.
The organization is made up of some of the outstanding instrumentalists in the nation, all having been soloists with various operatic military band groups. Mr. Petrie, the organizer of the Hussars, had the distinction of being soloist with John Phillip Sousa’s naval batallion. Blanche Elaine Fry, soprano soloist, was featured at the English Village during the Century of Progress at Chicago.
The Hussars are dressed in the colorful white and gold costumes of the Hungarian cavalry group from which they take their name, and their showmanship has been recognized and appreciated in all their appearances throughout the United States and Canada.
club, opened the program with a brief address introducing the toastmaster, the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.
Miss Jane Moore, lyric soprano, accompanied at the piano by Miss Nona Mae Linton, both of South Bend, sang “The Blue Danube,” by Strauss, and “Danny Boy.”
This was followed by a talk, “The College Man in Journalism” by Paul Foley, editor of the Scholastic, and general chairman of the Press club dinner.	-
John R. Collins, Glee club soloist, sang “The World Is Mine” and “Without a Song,” accompanied at the piano by Arthur Davidson.
Finally James Weber Linn, guest of honor, spoke on the topic: “Three Commodities — News, Features, and Propaganda.”
Committeemen for the occasion were: Tickets, Richard Riley and James McHugh; Program, John Gillespie and Edward Fischer.
Engineers To Hear Talk On Diesel Engines
The next meeting of the Engineers’ club, originally scheduled for the 19th of March has been set back to March 10, and will be held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. E. H. Hillman, of the Standard Oil Company’s offices at Chicago, will address the meeting on the subject, “High Speed Diesel Engines, Fuels, and Lubricants.”
Gymnasts To Perform March 16
The seventeen man Notre Dame gymnasium team which appeared today at Niles, Michigan. The team is under the direction of Professor Scannell and has made several appearances this year, once at the Palmer House in Chicago. On Tuesday, March 16, the team will give its first campus performance on the stage of Washington Hall. A full program of gym formations, tumbling, and club routines ivill be shozvn.
The men are, left to right: Front row—Walker, Moore, Hennessy, Danbom, Gallagher, Puplis; Second row—Butler (accompanist), Broscoe, Ely, McCarty, Kuharich, Scannell (coach); Third row—Galletta, Stmad, Collins, Maxwell, and Sullivan.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
REVIEWS TO FEATURE SPRING ISSUE OF "SCRIP" FRIDAY
•
The spring number of the Notre Dame literary periodical, Scrip, will make its appearance on the campus next Friday, March 12. Editor Philip Welsh announced early this week that he would appreciate any literary contributions from the student body. These can be used, and will be published if of sufficient merit.
This third issue of Scrip will contain the literary contributions of several former writers as well as the names of a few newcomers to the quarterly.
Essays and short stories will predominate in the makeup of the magazine. The popular “Freshmen Sketches” will also be included. These sketches are taken from Freshman work submitted in English classes. Book reviews of the works of outstanding contemporary authors is a new feature of this issue. It is felt that this will fill a void long left open by campus publications.
Campus Lads and Lassies No Longer Cut-ups Says Famed Creator of the Flapper Girl
By Frank E. Larwood
“The campus boys and girls have turned serious,” said John Held, Jr., famous cartoonist and writer of college life, on his arrival at Notre Dame, Wednesday, to prepare for his role as master of ceremonies of Notre Dame Night on the Varsity Show series tonight.
“Life to today’s college boy and girl no longer means a lot of frills and night clubs,” Held explained. “They think of life now as a problem of social and economic adjustments. They’ve discovered that the world’s problems are, in fact, their own, and they can’t find escape from the world in a spirit of abandon.”
Mr. Held, in his art and writings, was the droll historian of that postwar American period known as the “flapper era.” A period when parents, press and pulpit fretted over the dreadful threat of knee-length skirts, bobbed hair, hip-pocket flasks and a generally frivolous youthful attitude.
During succeeding weeks Mr. Held has been a busy man, em-ceeing the “Varsity Shows” from the campi of the University of Michigan, University of Chicago, Ohio State University, Columbia University, and University of Pennsylvania.
In his campus-to-campus travels,
Secure Special Rates For New York Trip
A reduced fare on the New York Central railroad of §24.85 for the round-trip from South Bend to New York during the Easter vacation has been secured by the Metropolitan Club of New York City, President Joseph Brien has announced. The rate provides foi' a return trip at any date and will not be on a special train.
“If we can obtain enough students,” Brien said, “we will have a special train as we did Christmas vacation. A special train, if chartered, will leave South Bend the afternoon of Wednesday, March 24, the day Easter vacation begins.”
It is hoped that Elmer F. Layden, Notre Dame athletic director, will return from Chicago in time to speak at the Metropolitan Club’s Communion breakfast on Sunday morning, March 7, at 9:15 o’clock in the Faculty dining hall. Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the Met Club, will also address the group.
The Communion Breakfast is open to the student body, and tickets will cost 35 cents per plate. Tickets may be obtained from Joseph Brien, 235 Alumni hall, until noon Saturday.
the qualities of America’s 1937 collegians that have impressed the artist above all others, are their resourcefulness and enthusiasm.
Mr. Held’s reputation as an artist and writer was built around college and university students. His cartoons of the college flapper have won international fame. “Grim Youth,” a story of college life. He is the country’s leading exponent of wood cutting as an art, and he engraved his first wood cut at the age of six.
Bora in Salt Lake City, Mr. Held was co-editor of his high school magazine in association with Harold Ross, famous editor of the New Yorker The 1907-08-09 editions of the University of Utah publication Utonian were “fraught with Held drawings.”
In 1907 he became a cartoonist on the Salt Lake City Tribune. In 1910 he went to New York to make his fortune. About this he says, “Was kicked in the head by a horse in 1925, created The Flapper and made a fortune.”
Princeton voted him their favorite artist with Rembrandt the runner-up. He syndicated the cartoon “Margy” which Held says was a higher-priced newspaper comic than the Calvin Coolidge feature.	-
HONOR DR.BERTELING WITH IMPRESSIVE JOINT DINNER
©
By F. G. Barreda
Dr. John B. Berteling, class of ’80, the oldest living St. Joseph Valley alumnus of the University, was the guest of honor at the joint dinnermeeting given by the Notre Dame Villagers and the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club at the Columbia Athletic club, Monday night.
In paying tribute to Dr. Berteling, the Rev. P. R. Duffy, C.S.C., assist-
Dr. John B. Berteling Dean of local alumni.
ant pastor of St. Patrick’s church, read a poem dedicated to the 77-year-old guest of honor. This excellent piece of felicitation was written by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., of Notre Dame.
Responding jovially to the congratulations given him by the 85 guests present,- the doctor related reminiscences of his student days at Notre Dame. He spoke of the stricter discipline of the University in his times, and gave an early history of South Bend and its surroundings. He traced his medical career, indicating the rapid steps of progress that have been taken in the field of medicine the past few years. .
Dr. Berteling proudly pointed out' that his son, John, Jr., of Ontario, Canada, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1908, and his grandson, John Berteling, III, class of ’38, have both followed in his footsteps by attending his alma mater.
George N. Beamer, prosecuting attorney of St. Joseph county, presided as general chairman and introduced the speakers of the evening. Louis F. Buckley, president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club, announced that the annual Rockne Mass will be given on April 4. He also called to the attention of Alumni to the Notre Dame “Varsity Show” on the Pontiac hour which will be carried on a coast-to-coast hook-up tonight.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
FRESHMEN PRIMARIES MONDAY; FROSH ON BANDWAGONS
By Robert Stenger
Climaxing weeks of anxious campaigning, the freshmen will hold primary elections for class officers in the University fieldhouse Monday afternoon, March 8, from 12:30 to 1:05 p.m.
Noon today was the deadline for filing of candidates before Art Hoffman, S.A.C. representative in charge of elections. The general election for class president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer is to be held Monday, March 15.
For weeks freshmen politicians have been booming names of their respective candidates in Brownson, Carroll, Cavanaugh, and Freshman halls. According to observers, interhall rivalry will decide the outcome.
Hoffman this week announced'that the primaries will be run much as in the past. Voters will mark on cards four names which appear on a huge blackboard ballot. The two candidates receiving the highest total vote for each office will be eligible for the general election.
Regulations for the election were drawn up at the S.A.C. meeting held in the north basement of the library last Monday evening. Plans for a senior honor society, the ping-pong championships, and the S.A.C. swimming meet, to be held sometime after Easter, were discussed.
Knights Fill Vacancies; Plan For Banquet
At the last meeting of the Knights of Columbus an interesting paper on “Birth Control” was presented by James Nerney, junior major in Philosophy, after which an open forum was conducted for the benefit of the audience.
After the presentation, elections were carried out to fill two vacancies which occurred through graduation. Kenneth Veeneman, junior in. the College of Commerce, was elected by acclamation to the office of chancellor, held for the past two years by Art Cronin. Albert Schwartz was elected to the outer guard.
Plans were discussed and committee reports heard on the coming St. Patrick’s Day banquet which is to be held on March 14, in the main ballroom of the Jefferson Plaza.
A South Bend product graces the column this week; a budding young politician if evei' there was one and, inappropriately enough, one of the quietest fellows on the campus. Vulgarity in campus lingo has shortened a distinguished “Theodore Prekowitz” to just plain “Tip.”
“Tip” is the young gentleman who had the task of corailing young freshmen into private homes at the beginning of the year. Again it was his popularity that got him into the jam. In 1935 he was a practically unani-
mous choice foi' off-campus S.A.C. member (the other fellow confessed that he and his brother had cast the two dissenting votes, although “Tip” wanted to prefer charges of ballot-box stuffing since the brother was only six) and the urge had settled into his blood and he was a theoretically unwilling choice for president of the Villager’s Club.
After winning the position, “Tip” thought he would be able to return to the sedate life of the law school since he was graduated cum laude in ’36. But the crop of eager freshmen needed home life and something had to be done; little “Tip” decided that he and his organization were the ones to do it, and it was done—and very . creditably too.
But the young man himself is a rather shy chap who has a disconcerting habit of thinking in one of five different languages: English, German, Hungarian, and two assorted Slavic dialects. The only time “Tip’s” languages ever get mixed will be when he thinks of a certain summer day way back in 1935 on a jolly excursion I in Chicago, when his assurance was
George Cecala to Head Academy of Politics
An Academy of Politics, to foster interest in current and historical political problems and to stimulate interest in the Department of Politics, was formed on the campus last Monday night at a meeting of Politics majors held in Room 117 of the Main Building. George Cecala, senior* in the Department of Politics, was elected president of the organization. Paul Loch°v was named secretary.
The group selected Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Professor Maurice Pettit and Professor Paul C. Bartholomew as faculty advisers. Other charter members of the Academy include Parker - Sullivan, Julius Nardone and Emil Peter.
Applications for membership to the academy are now being accepted. Applications should be submitted to President George Cecala. The next meeting of the group will be on March 15 at 8:00 p.m., in Room 117 of the Main Building.
From The Files Of "The Scholastic"
September 17, 1881—One of the confessed evils of improper arrangements for ventilation is the danger of catching cold. We are told that our room is close and illy ventilated; up goes a window, in comes a draft, and we catch cold. We are told we should not allow such a draft through our apartment; down goes the window, and we are stifled.
O'Brien Lecture
(Continued from Page 5)
‘mass’ produced are either melodramatic for the men or saccharine sweet for the women. All of them are written according to a set pattern and are turned out in mass production for persons of the mental age of about nine and a half. Some of them are so bad that they can be detected by their ‘smell’.”
Mr. O’Brien declared that the American short story received a boost when Professor John T. Fredericks, of Notre Dame and Northwestern universities, began publishing the Midland, a nationally known literary magazine.
Mr. O’Brien advised the young short story writer to put life in his work and pay particular attention to characterization.
rather thoroughly banged about in two. diff erent automobile wrecks; and his dignity almost suffered a total eclipse when only the luck of the Prekowitz’ saved him from a session of dish washing in the College Inn.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
THE WEEK
Vanishing Americans
Each week hundreds of home town newspapers are delivered to palpitating students all over the country. The papers provide a bridge over the gap between school and home. Big city boys laugh scornfully at the homespun makeup—the fillers, telling of the love life of the African armadillo, the faithful account of the Epworth Bowling league, the front page story of a puny fire. Gather around, you metropolites, and roar at what we have dug up. From our weekly paper, the Westfield Leader, published every Thursday, sold for one nickel, the twentieth part of a dollar, we have gleaned an item. We do not apologize for it.
“The ladies of St. Paul’s Church have as their Lenten project a weekly all-day sewing meeting at the parish house each Tuesday. They’re making pajamas for the Indians of the Pine Ridge Agency in South Dakota, and they say the Indians are most enthusiastic about the pajamas. Anyway, the ladies are finding these weekly meetings very pleasant as well as worth while. They take a box luncheon and have a very good time.” ’
And if you don’t believe those Indians appreciate the ladies’ efforts, then you just don’t know Indians. We like to think of a lonely cold prairie in South Dakota, and a small fire, about which are huddled a band of redskins, eagerly fighting for a pair of cerise NOBELA pajamas.
* V *
Harbinger
Closing our ears to the scrape of shovels outside our windows, and our eyes to the drifts of snow here and there, we offer a spring sign. It isn’t much, but it’s all ours. Like the lady who telephones to her local paper each year that she has seen the first robin of the year, we want to boast about having discovered an indisputable symbol of warmer and better days. There was a wagon on the campus last Friday, containing about a dozen park benches, the kind you see near the Grotto and in front of Walsh and Sorin when it gets balmy. The benches had been freshly painted a vivid, heartening green, and even the horses that were pulling the wagon had a dreamy, hopeful look in
By John A. Gillespie
their eyes, as though pining for green pastures.
* * *
Stooges Wanted
No doubt there are men on the campus who have leanings toward group noises. They like to be in mob scenes in plays; they yearn to be heard as offstage voices. Your chance is at hand tonight, at the radio show in the gym. An order has gone out for two thousand men to cheer and clap at the right moments during the program. Don’t worry about missing cues; you’ll be told when to express yourselves. And if you’re real good, you might get a chance to sing “The Victory March.” There’ll be impersonations, singing, band and glee club numbers and a free Pontiac to every one in the audience. You might know they’d give a car away; something like presenting a machine gun to Shirley Temple.
# £ $
Sorry, Mr. White
We hate to brag but we will anyhow. In last week’s New Yorker, Mr. E. B. White, the author of “Talk of the Town” department, saw fit to comment on the justice of the peace in Stamford, Connecticut, who offered to perform marriages in 1937 and collect the fee sometime in 1938. We would like to say that we covered the topic fully in the Scholastic of Feb. 26. That’s injustice for you. Mr. White no doubt gets a handsome sum for his weekly patter while we get twice nothing for our mouthings. Of course the possibility enters that his work is just a trifle more polished than ours, but the difference in salaries is disproportionate. At least we have the hollow victory of having scooped him by a full week.
* * *
Banqueteers
Last night there was the jolliest time ever in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. The Press Club had its second annual dinner and, for one frogskin, ' anybody could eat filet mignon and listen to James Weber Linn, the principal speaker. Besides that a mezzo soprano sang “Danny, My Boy.” As the piece de resistance a copy of a program in the form of a newspaper was given to each diner. The sheet was called The Banqueteer and -will not make another appearance until next year at the Third Annual Dinner of the Press Club. All the details and qualities of a newspaper were reproduced, even to a fake ad for the Scholastic. As if the leading college weekly needed publicity! The very idea is repulsive.
Catholic U. Sociology Dean Visits Faculty
Dr. John O’Grady, eminent sociologist and dean of the graduate school of Social Work of Catholic university, made a short visit to the campus last Saturday and Sunday. He conferred with Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., and Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., both of the Notre Dame sociology department, concerning the social work movements in the United States. '
Besides this, Dr. O’Grady also addressed a special meeting of the graduate students in social w’ork in the University. In his address he spoke of the increasing opportunities for administrative positions under the new Social Security and Public Welfare programs now being enacted by the state and federal governments.
Resistance Of Rubber Told To Chemists
Mel Lambrecht gave a talk on the “Chemical Resistance of Rubber” at the regular monthly meeting of the Chemistry club Wednesday.
The demonstration at this meeting was given by Jack Doyle and Tom Armel. They performed several feats of chemical magic, such as making a picture “blush” and lighting a fire with ice.
Fogel Snort; Roce Roar
(Continued from Page U)_____
“I expect Fogel to make a few noises but otherwise it will be as simple as this.”
With that Mr. Race slammed the bag on the floor and drop-kicked it to the other side of the room. “What will be worth the price of admission alone is the yell I’m going to give while standing on Fogel’s big stomach. If you wait a second I’ll give it for you. ...”
But we didn’t wait. We went off looking for Fogel. We found him in his room poring over books of Jiu-jitsu.
“There isn’t much to tell the Press,” said Mr. Fogel, curling up his legs while he lounged back in his mohair easy chair. “Race talks a lot ... I suppose that’s why he’s a speech major. I don’t think I’ll carry him long . . . just give the crowd a slight exhibition and then finish the little fellow with one of those improved ‘Flying Tancredi’s.’ ”
“No, I don’t think the girl will be able to be down for the match, you see,” and the “Pride of Hegewisch” smiled a very weak smile. “She’s going to some fraternity dance at Northwestern that night. But I’ll win any way. ... I sure want to take her to the Chicago Club Easter Dance. ...”
Said referee of the match, Ed Broscoe: “Anything goes.”
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
NAME M'DERMOTT AS AIDE IN MARINE
RECRUITING
George J. McDermott, Carroll Hall, has been appointed campus representative of the recruiting staff of the U. S. Marine Corps to serve in that capacity until the arrival of Major Beecher, USM, who will make the final selections for the six week’s training course.
The course for platoon leaders is given at Quantico, Va., each summer to prospective officers in the Marine Corps. If the applicant is accepted, he spends two consecutive summers at the camp in six week sessions, beginning July 4 and ending August 14. At the completion of his college work and the conferring of his degree he is granted the rank of second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve. The summer training sessions must come at the completion of the applicants’ sophomore and junior years.
The general requirements for the training class are: he must be a citizen of the United States between the ages of 18 and 22 at the time of enlistment; he must not be a dental, medical, or theological student, and must have a better than average class mark. For specific requirements those interested are requested to call at the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Last year several of the present junior class took up the course and it is hoped that the present sophomores will respond as' well. For information on the course, exclusive of requirements, applicants are requested to get in touch with McDermott at 148 Carroll Hall.
While in training the candidate will be paid §30 a month and receive clothing, board and room for the entire six weeks. He is in no v>Tay enlisting in the regular marine corps but merely in the reserves and will receive only a reserve officer’s commission.
Hold First in a Series Of Joint Meetings
With members of the French club as their guests, the Cracow club held a meeting in the Law building last night. Professor Benjamin was the speaker of the evening and discussed the cultures of the French and Polish peoples, tracing this relationship back to the days of the French king, Henry IV.
Paul Anderson opened the French club part of the meeting -with the presentation of “Pathlin,” a one-act play in French.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
More Dynamite From Chicago
Once again. President Robert M. Hutchins, of the University of Chicago, has pulled the chair of academic complacency out from under the adherents of the traditional scholastic curriculum and has left them wondering as to what his next move will do to disrupt their ultra - conservative ideals. This time President Hutchins has effected a complete plan of reorganization of the Chicago University Law School.
The new program will be inaugurated in October of this year and involves the expansion of the Law School “into a four-year course including non - legal material of the types most frequently encountered in modern law practice.” The revised curriculum will have courses in psychology, economics, political theory, English history, and instruction in the tool subjects of accounting, statistics, and logic.
An All-Star Faculty
With reason one might disagree with the All-American gridiron selections of Christy Walsh, Grantland Rice, the Associated Press, etc., but it is hard to find any reason why one should not be satisfied with the following names for an All-Star faculty. It was selected by faculty members of the University of Pennsylvania: Dr. Albert Einstein, Pasteur, Newton, Plato, Shakespeare, Darwin, Aristotle, Socrates, Da Vinci, Galileo, and Dante.
The Wants of Future Scientists
Alabama University’s school paper recently conducted a survey to determine the fields of science in which today’s crop of budding Marconis, Edisons, and Pasteurs are most interested in from the viewpoint of desiring increased progress in them. Improvement in television was first on the list closely followed by the humanitarian desire for means to prolong human lives. Transportation without fuel, control of floods, and greater safety in air transportation were other items on the list of desires. . . . Coeds questioned on the matter pleaded for skin creams that would preserve beauty. If their pleas are fulfilled it will be a case of beauty not only being “skin deep” but “years long” as well.
Anyway, He’s Different!
One exchange tells of a St. Louis University professor who assigns the reading of detective fiction to his class for the purpose of criticizing ' the logic they contain. He claims that such assignments are enjoyed by
CALENDAR
Friday, March 5
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Midwest Invitational Debate tourney, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Pontiac Varsity show, University gym, 9:30 to 10:00 p.m., to be broadcast on red network ’ of N.B.C.; Track meet, Varsity vs. University of Illinois, Champaign, Ill.
Saturday, March 6
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 11:30 a.m.; Movies, Washington hall, “Walking on Air,” first show at 6:40 p.m. for freshmen; Basketball, Varsity vs. Marquette, Milwaukee, Wis.
Sunday, March 7
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Communion breakfast, Met club, 9:15 a.m., Lay Faculty dining hall; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall; Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, March 8
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Freshmen Primaries, University gym, 12:30 to 1:05 p.m.; Meeting, S.A.C., basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, 6:30 p.m.; Basketball, Varsity vs. Minnesota, University gym, 8:00 p.m.; Concert, University band, before game and during intermission; Fencing, Varsity vs. Wisconsin, here; Debate, Varsity vs. Michigan State, E. Lansing, Mich.; Meeting, Chesterton club, Law building, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 9
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Ticket sale for BENGAL BOUTS begins; Meeting, Patricians, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Missouri club.
Wednesday, March 10
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Lenten services, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Bookmen, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Washington Hall feature, White Hussars, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, March 11
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, Law club; Debate, Varsity vs. Michigan State, here.
the average student and that they also serve to keep the mind busy. . . . If the type of magazine sold on the local cafeteria newsstand is any criterion, it would seem to indicate that the St. Louis professor has a few disciples on our own campus.
DON’T FORGET THE BENGAL BOUTS’’!’.!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Horatiuswas stopped at the bridge. Lee was plunked between the eyes at Richmond. Samson, in a moment of indiscretion, let a house fall on him, and unless something happens to youse guys and youse guys which savors of local interest, the axe is going to fall on your columnist’s neck (and there are a lot of you around here who would enjoy that).
As 0. 0. Me, the columnist (who is pretty good, too) would say it, “In going through my morning mail came upon a letter from a disgruntled minority of Brownson and Carroll hall, wanting to know why that portion of the campus does not receive its share of publicity” . . . My dear ones: Fly from your roost in the garret and you’ll yet make a name for yourselves . . .
The names of the Wisconsin club’s officers appeared in last week’s Scholastic, but the name of the “biggest” officer, BUTCH KAMM (Morrissey), was omitted. A miss of a mere 280 pounds . . . TONY O’BOYLE (Walsh), an instructor at a local high school, asks questions to the lassies in the afternoons, but in the evenings to a favored few, he gives the answers . . . LUKE TIERNAN (Walsh), now that the examinations are over and the results home, ignores his brilliant contemporaries (the three Republicans) . . . GODFREY ARMENTA (Badin) is extending invitations to a choice few. Do we hear wedding bells in the offing? . . .
Personality Portraits : TEDDY (Oscar Wilde) O’NEILL (Morrissey) Pink Tooth Brush . . . TOM (Haircut) DOWLING (St. Ed’s) The American Boy . . . JOE (Lend Me) CRISANTI (Alumni) Wimpy . . . JIMMY FOLTZ (Walsh) Little Man, What are you going, to do now? . .. FRANK (Shining Example) SCHIAVONE (Gym) Golden Dome. . . .
That sparking TACKLEY - MULHOLLAND combination is off again (or maybe they’re just self conscious) with a tantalizing dance hit of the week: “I’m Going To Have a Sit Down Strike Over You” ... A nefarious plot to mooch RALPH MCDONALD’S (Dillon) gold fish was dropped by the three accessories be-for the fact. Altruism, brothers, that’s what! . . . BOB LINSEY and NICK MEAGHER (Alumni) constituents of that now famous Monte Carlo Club, scribble from Grand Rapids that the weather is mighty fine. It was plenty warm here, too, when they left. . ..
In reference to the Absurdities, we’re still laughing after watching several Monogrammers read the truism spilled about their potential extravaganza. Ho-hum. . . .
Walgreen’s indifferent debutantes and some of our more dashing freshmen and upperclassmen are manipulating again. Same old stuff: “Two small cokes, please” . . . JOHN O’CONNOR (Howard) has started planning his senior president campaign. . . . From Alpha to Omega, COYNE O’CONNOR (Alumni) and PAUL NOWAK (Howard) ... ED HUMMER (Walsh) for relaxation from his law work, paints in oils. If he paints well, he’ll have a future. . . .
Height of something or other:
The fellow who hides butter under
“Has Anybody Got a Hankie?”
his wheat cakes . . . The fellow who eats the olives while waiting for his sandwich . . . The fellow who has three eggs scrambled because they only look like one order . . . Where? Why in the Caf Line or should I say Bread Line. ... .
Overheard: Who pays taxes on the “Pennies from Heaven”? . . . “Dead Eye Dick”—Bill the Barber with his tobacco juice . . . Two top notch singers, JOE PALOWSKI and JACK COLLINS, failed to make the Pontiac program because of insufficient musical accompaniment. Tough break boys ... A lot of the boys are wondering where LEE MOORMAN (Sorin) got the tie he has been wearing (that bright red one);, a lot of other boys are wondering where he is going to leave it. . . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas M oritur us Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times duiing the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall. Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.._______________________Editor-In-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER___________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_______________________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle___________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo____________________________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra_____________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams__________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven_____________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley_____________________________Robert McClain
George Haithcock_______________________Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk____•________________________John Callaghan
Thomas Marker_____________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes-------------------------------Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett]_________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett_______________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride---------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby John Clifford
Charles Callahan______________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott---------------------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger_________________________________A ri Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26____________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	March 5, 1937	No. 18
SUGAR-COATED CHARITY . . .
ONE WEEK from Monday some seventy-five University boxers will go through the mill of preliminary rounds leading up to a spot on the final Bengal Bouts card of Friday, March 19.
For five years The Scholastic, with the generous and able cooperation of the student managers, University officials and gymnasium staff, has sponsored these bouts for the purpose of aiding the Notre Dame priests laboring in Bengal, India.
The cause is both needy and worthy. Past experience seems to prove that the Boxing Show is an ideal way to raise much needed funds. There is a double appeal: The hard-headed “business deal” approach and the more altruistic charitable approach. .
Viewed in competition with any form of local entertainment, the Bengal Bouts at twenty-five cents for student admission is the Winter’s biggest entertainment bargain. No movie can touch it, no other athletic event has quite the same thrill as boxing. And, for generous measure, there has always been comedy a-plenty in the feature attractions.
Viewed as a charitable endeavor nothing could be closer to home. Seminarians whom we now see in classes,
in fact some of our present lay students may one day be working for this cause in India. We are responsible for their success.
Judging from early interest, the 1937 bouts should be an unprecedented success. It will not be the fault of the fighters, or solely the fault of the promoters if they fall short. Neither will the fighters or the promoters claim credit for a huge success, the type of success which you, and only you, can make of this show.
COMPARISON ...
FROM The Varsity News, University of Detroit:
“Three plays under student direction are scheduled for presentation in the Little Theater on three successive evenings, Feb. 23, 24, and 25. The plays are: ‘The Awakening,’ ‘Red Carnations’ and ‘Lady Novelist.’ All roles will be filled by student actors.”
A later issue told of the outstanding success of this trilogy. The success depended on two things: Active interest and real work on the part of student players and directors, and, even more, real enthusiasm and cooperation on the part of student audiences.
University of Detroit is almost exactly the same size, numerically, as Notre Dame. The school is almost lost in a big city, the enrollment is predominantly “day hop” —all natural and important disadvantages to concentrated work—disadvantages which Notre Dame does not have.
There must be an answer.
PARTING GESTURE ...
TH WOULD be a noble and a touching thing if, at the X last home basketball game of the year next Monday, the section allegedly reserved for seniors would really be reserved.	&
At the last few games the “reservation” has been a pitiful farce. Seniors on hand as early as seven o’clock found the section crammed, a section which is none too large at best.
The managers who have a difficult job, cannot be in any way blamed. The fault lies directly with a relatively few “smart alecs” who are altogether too brilliant and distinguished to observe the usual rules. It might be nice to install special seats for this wise contingent, possibly something electrical.
▼
MAGIC CARPET ...
NOTRE DAME takes an honor seat on the magic carpet of radio tonight. With a sparkling program of student talent—musical, comedy and dramatic, the N. D. Varsity Show should be one of the highlights of the Pontiac collegiate series.
Student interest was not lacking in the details of the program. Mr. Albert Miller, director, was swamped with skits, talent and embryo announcers for his half-hour show. He expressed high regard for the quality of the work.
If the show proves really successful—as it undoubtedly will—it should stir campus radio minds to improving and enlarging regular University and student broadcasts from the local studios.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
13
ATHLETICS
DAKAR. HUSKY HEAVY TO DEFEND TITLE
WON LAST YEAR
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
We looked for him to be cracking a punching bag in the gym. Instead, we found him cracking an English Lit. book in Carroll study hall. Nevertheless, this Phil Dahar is as big and tough as they come. At present he holds, the University heavyweight boxing title, and is one of the three defending champions in this year’s Bengal Bouts.
Dahar’s home is in Dillonvale, 0. He attended Dillonvale High school, where he played football and put the shot for the track team. In his senior year there, he was co-captain of football, and established a shot put record which still stands.
Besides these school athletics he became interested in boxing. He got together some equipment, and with a few of his friends began to practice the manly art. They used to box a lot among themselves, but Phil never entered a tournament until he came to Notre Dame.
Enrolling in the fall of 1935, he went out for football, and played end on the freshman team. When the Bengal Bouts came around, he entered them, and showed enough stuff to make the finals. There his deadly punches were too much for Red Darcy, and Dahar won the heavyweight championship by a knockout in the third round.
In football last season, he was shifted to full back on the “B” squad, but he hopes to return to end this spring. Incidentally it is his greatest ambition to make good in football at Notre Dame.
Phil is in his sophomore year in the Phy-Ed department. He is serious about his training and his studies. Often when he is busy in the afternoon he works out at night. He thinks the Bengal Bouts are pretty stiff in the way of competition, and intends to put up a mighty strong fight to retain his title.
From all indications he will have to show lots of scrap, because the field is the largest in the history of the Bouts, and the heavyweight crown is probably the most coveted prize of the tournament. Consequently, one man to keep your eye on when he steps into the ring in defense of his title will be Philip George Dahar.
PRELIMINARIES TO BE HELD MARCH 15 AND 16; LARGE ENTRY EXPECTED FOR BOUTS
Phil Dahar
Defending heavyiveight champ.
BROWNSON. DILLON COP INTERHALL CAGE TITLES
•
If not beer and pretzels, at least midnight lights and general permissions should be awarded Brownson and Dillon Halls, newly - crowned champions of interhall basketball. Tuesday night, on the main floor of the fieldhouse, the Brownson heavyweight hoopsters laid firm hands on the campus title by defeating the aggregation from Howard, 23-15, while upstairs on the small floor the lightweight title passed to Dillon by virtue of their 30-24 victory over the Carroll midgets.
(Contimied on Page 19)
By Fred Digby
The Bengal Bout bombardment will begin a week before the final explosion this year when the Fighting Irishmen start swinging in the preliminary bouts on .Monday, March 15, and Tuesday, March 16.
Flying fists will go to work on these nights, carrying the hopes of some seventy boxers for a chance in the finals. The winners in each class 'will be crowned champions of the University boxing ranks.
Due to the unusually large number of entrants — the largest in Bengal Bout history — about twenty fights ■will have to be fought each night so that the finalists will be ready for Friday. If necessary the preliminaries will be carried over to Wednesday.
The preliminary bouts will begin at 7:3b and end when the necessary number of bouts has been fought. Since there are only three of last year’s victors returning, the bouts will see five new champs crowned. Consequently the prelims will be all the more furious and all the more' thrilling.
There are eight classes for the bouts, the 118 pound class, the 126, 135, 142, 148, 160, and 175 pound, classes and the heavyweight division.
On Monday afternoon before the prelims the fighters will weigh in from 4 to 6 o’clock. According to amateur ruling a one pound leeway will be allowed.
There will be few, if any, really inexperienced fighters in the prelims, for all the boxers have been training for a month alrady under Trainer Frank Schiavone. Therefore, the bouts will not only be scrappy but will also witness some clever boxing on the part of the hopefuls.
Drawing for the bouts will take place in the near future. Bulletins announcing the brackets and individual opponents will be posted following the drawing.
Admission to the preliminary bouts will be ten cents.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene
With the close of basketball season just around the proverbial corner and Easter, the official ender of all basketball seasons, practically upon us, we turn this week to our last presentation of figures on the basketball team.
When one thinks of this year’s sensational basketball team and its enviable record that is rivalled only by the one this same team turned in last year, thoughts turn to the group of five sophomores that took the court early early in the 1935 season to dispossess the veteran seniors of their positions and play the greatest basketball ever seen at Notre Dame, bar none. This bunch of boys is looked at as a group, not as individuals. Their team work in their first year under Irish banners was a thing to marvel at.
Moir, Nowak, Meyer, Wukovits have all been presented here this year. It would not seem natural to omit one of the most instrumental cogs of the team the fifth member of that bunch that started making basketball history in 1935, Tommy Jordan.
The Jordan clan was represented on the cage team since 1932 in the
person of John Jordan, Tommy’s brother and captain of the 1934-35 team. The year, incidentally, that Tom was a freshman, so there has been an unbroken line of Jordans on the varsity since 1932. There are some more Jordans, Fritz and Andy, but these brothers did not attend Notre Dame although they were basketball players of the first magnitude.
HILLTOPPERS HOSTS TO IRISH CAGERS TOMORROW
When Notre Dame’s sleight-of-hand artists meet Marquette in Milwaukee tomorrow night, they will attempt to repeat the 41-24 defeat they handed the Hilltoppers here on Feb. 23.
But since basketball is one of the most uncertain of all sports, anything may happen—particularly when Notre Dame and Marquette tangle together. Although Marquette lacks a little of the smoothness and finish of many teams, they make up for it in fight and spirit, and their* game here two weeks ago was one of the roughest of the season.
The Hilltoppers showed much potential power when they ran up a 10-3 lead in that game. However they were apparently over-awed by their own achievement, for they scored only 14 points during the rest of the evening, while Coach Keogan’s boys were adding 38 points to their original three. Although Marquette has lost approximately half of their games this season, their battle with Notre Dame is the only one which they have dropped by more than six points.
Three sophomores, Adams, Hesik, and Quabius occupy important positions in the Marquette line-up. The three outstanding Marquette forwards are Adams, Wolfe, and Eurich. Although Paul ’Nowak held scoreless both Hesik, who started the game at center for Marquette, and Captain Bob O’Keefe who replaced him, he will still find them difficult men to deal with. McMahon and Quabius, the two Marquette guards who scored half of their team’s baskets in their last game with Notre Dame are both excellent players.
Tommy attended Lindblom High in Chicago and concentrated on basketball from the first day he was there until the last. For three years he was a regular on the team and in his senior year was chosen on the All-star team selected on the basis of play in the Chicago University tournament held during Christmas week in Chicago.
He came to Notre Dame in 1934, the year his brother was captain of the varsity. His brother graduated and Tommy took over where he left off at the guard position. Played with Tommy Wukovits at the back position and was going great until some bad luck hit him in the form of sinus trouble. Was out for more than a month and was unable to play much when he recovered as the season was practically over.
This year he started out as a first stringer until the team hit its Christmas slump. Keogan decided to do some shaking up and Tommy found himself playing second string to Earl Brown. Lately the Jordan lad has been doing some mighty fine playing and before this nearly dead season is over we may see him in the No. 1 spot, once more.
Rooms with Johnny Wilson in one of those Dillon doubles that are about 20 feet long and five wide. Pals around with Tommy Wukovits and Ed Condon. Rumor has it that although he’s from Chicago he hadn’t seen a big city until he made the trip to New York to play N. Y. U. last year, of course that’s a matter of opinion—Condon’s opinion.	■
Trackmen Meet Illinois
Notre Dame’s track squad tonight will meet one of their most hightly-respected foes when they clash with Illinois, in the latter’s fieldhouse at Urbana. The Irish, thus far experiencing only a mediocre season, having won one and lost two, will be strongly seeking a victory in their final indoor dual encounter of the winter.
Strictly speaking, “on paper” the Ulini appear to be 12 points better than Notre Dame. • Coach John Nicholson’s men were unable to score more than 26 points on Indiana, while Ulini bettered that percentage somewhat by holding the Hoosiers to a 57-38 count.
The outstanding participant on the Illinois team is Bob Grieves, a veteran in the dash events. Recently in the meet with Indiana, Grieves
(Continued on Page 18)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
15
NOTRE DAME NETMEN DOWN BUTLERITES
BY 42-17 SCORE
•
Notre Dame basketball continued victorious for the tenth consecutive time last Saturday night, as the Irish terrier nipped a 42-17 hunk off the Butler bulldog in the Butler fieldhouse. Before 8,500 real Indiana basketball fans, Johnny Moir demonstrated his double-flips and hesitation shots to lead the scoring for the evening, with nine points.
Both coaches used twelve men in the game: George Keogan, to give all available men a shot at the hoop; and Tony Hinkle, to stem the rising rising Irish score. Unable to pierce the iron-clad defense presented by the visitors, Butler in desperation attempted many long shots, the majority of which bounced into the arms of the taller Notre Dame players.
In the early minutes of the game both quintets appeared on even terms for a very tight ball game. Butler swished the lace first, but Moir and Meyer teamed up to break the deadlock which was only approached shortly before intermission. Gerkens-meyer and Jaggers were prominent in this short-lived display of power by the Bulldogs. Capt. Ray Meyers was replaced by Sadowski, and the Irish continued to pull away from the Butler score.
His team well in the lead Coach Keogan replaced the regulars with subs, who not only held the Butler team to one basket, but also went on to raise the scoring for the evening to 42 points. Paul Nowak, Ray Meyers, Jim Carson, and Tom Wukovits were continually in the heat of the battle and greatly added to the Irish score. Gerkensmeyer, with five points, and Merrill with four, pushed the game in the closing minutes, though their valiant attempt was in vain.
Fencers At Wisconsin
The Irish fencers will close their 1937 season Monday afternoon at 2:30 in the Notre Dame gymnasium when they meet the Badgers of Wisconsin.
Although Coach de Landero is hopeful that the swordsmen will end their season with a victory, he has predicted a very close meet. The saber event has been conceded to the Badgers for they are represented in that event by Fred Kaftan who won the Big Ten saber championship in 1936. The foil and epee events will, therefore, be the ones in which the Irish hope to obtain most of their points.
The meet will mark the last appearance of Captain Telmo de Landero and Jack McAuliffe, who have been the mainstays of the team.
NOTRE DAME LOSES SECOND TRACK MEET TO DRAKE TEAM LAST SATURDAY;
TWO INDOOR RECORDS FALL
Notre Dame tracksters lost the deciding mile relay and with it the meet, 54-50, to a well-balanced Drake team last Saturday afternoon in the local fieldhouse.	'
Given only an outside chance for
Greg Rice
Finishing his 4:19 mile.
victory before the meet, the Irish put up a very stubborn struggle before being edged out in the relay. Notre Dame held a 50-49 lead going into the relay. The Drake quartet, however, put on a dramatic finish to wipe out the early Irish lead. Kohl, the Drake anchor man, ran a brilliant race to overcome the lead of Parsons, the Notre Dame anchor man.
Greg Rice, the brilliant Notre Dame sophomore, gave the customers an unexpected thrill with a record-breaking 4:19.4 mile. This mark established a new Notre Dame fieldhouse record. The old record was held by Kennedy who ran a 4:21 mile in 1924. Rice also won a second in the half mile finishing behind team mate John Francis.
In the hurdles Mahoney, of Notre
FENCERS TOP PURDUE AND TIE CHICAGO
Notre Dame’s fencing squad won a comparatively easy victory from Purdue, 11-6, last Wednesday, in Lafayette, while two days later they earned an 8%-8% tie with Chicago here in the local fieldhouse.
Jack McAuliffe was the individual star in the foil events, defeating Captain Latter, McWilliams, and Hoffman. Bob Seco was successful in winning from Hoffman but lost to Latter and McWilliams.
Fighting a brilliant bout, Jack Zerbst beat Seaborg, Purdue’s ace swordsman, 5-0, in the sabre. Scar-lata had little trouble in disposing of Antuscko, 5-1. In the epee, Notre Dame and Purdue split even with each taking two bouts.
The Irish fencers were forced to stage a rally against Chicago, to keep the Maroons from emerging with a victory. Notre Dame came through to establish a lead of 5 to 4 in the foil, but relinquished it when the Big Ten champions captured the epee, 1 to 3.
Captain Telmo de Landero, Seco, and McAuliffe combined to give the Irish a tie and two wins in the sabre events. The final score was deadlocked by virtue of McAuliffe’s fine fencing against Polacheck in the last bout of the afternoon.
Rocky Mountain basketball teams usually travel long distances in autos for league games. Panhandle A. & M. recently finished a 450-mile auto trip and. won a one-point victory. Last winter the Utah Aggies began a 135-mile trip at 8 a.m. The team didn’t arrive for the game until 9 pun. because of snowdrifts, slides, and cold weather. They played the game that night though, clinching the championship.
Dame, grabbed a first in the highs and a second in the lows. Captain “Bucky” Jordan tied for first in both the 60-yard dash and the broad jump. Eivins was Drake’s high point man with a first in the pole vault and a second in the high jump.
Notre Dame, as usual was exceptionally strong in the shot put. Fay-monville and Beinor combined to sweep the event. The winning distance was 47 feet 2 % inches. Drake, however, made up for this with first and second places in both the high jump and the pole vault.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
IRISH BASKETBALL TEAM PLAYS MINNESOTA IN LAST HOME GAME OF SEASON MONDAY GOPHERS TOP BIG TEN CONFERENCE
All true Notre Dame men will stand up and cheer Monday night in rhe local hasket-hall when the brilliant Fighting Irish hoopsters take the floor against the Gophers of Minnesota for the last home game of the season.
Besides closing the home season this game will also mark the final appearance of Don Allen and John De-Mots, two seniors whose play has been invaluable to the team for three seasons. Always dependable, these boys have contributed much to the success of the Keoganmen during the time they were on the team.
This Notre Dame team, which has given spectators so many thrills and
Ray Meyer
Minnesota must hustle.
such a fine brand of basketball, will be out gunning for the Gophers who are now engaged in a heated battle for Big Ten supremacy. Probably the startling lineup for Minnesota will be Addington and Kundla, sophomore scoring dynamos, at forwards. Kundla is a clever ball-handler and an ever-dangerous shot. His most ambitious feat of this year was to score 20 points against Purdue in a single game. Addington is the shorter of the two, but uses his size to advantage by a highly-developed deception which enables him to turn up under the basket with the ball at the most embarrassing moments—for the opposing team.
Manly is the 6' 3" center who has been outjumping his taller rivals all season although Paul Nowak of the Irish should be able to take care of this job. Seebach and Rolek are the guards who have provided some great defensive work for the Gophers. Rolek in particular will bear watching as he is the key man of their attack. Taken as a whole the two teams should about match each other as to size.
Minnesota has been hailed as the
FRESHMAN HALL WINS INHERHALL TRACK COMPETITION
•
Freshman Hall finished far ahead of its nearest rival last Sunday when it won the Interhall track meet with a total of 32 points. The boys from the Cardboard Palace scored a clean sweep in the 440-yard dash and the 65-yard low hurdles, and took two more first places by winning both the high jump and the high hurdles.
Brownson Hall occupied the runner-up position by scoring a first place in one event, and second place in four- others for a 17-point total. Cavanaugh and St. Edward’s were right behind it with 14 and 12 points respectively.
Archer of Brownson nosed out a Howard rival by less than an inch when he won the broad jump on his last try with a leap of 20 feet 7 inches. Jake Kovalcik, varsity football man of Badin Hall, heaved the iron ball 41 feet to win the shot put.
Jack Martin, of St. Edward’s Hall, opened up a wide gap in. the first 220 yards and held his lead through the rest of the race to win the half mile in 2:09. The most exciting.finish came in the mile in which Frank Paine, of Morrissey, barely fought off the powerful sprint of Norb Schickel to beat him by a foot in 4:50.
surprise team of the season because of their startling comeback after a rather poor start. Early in the season they met with four defeats, but soon the sophomore stars began to operate, and since then they have lost only one game. Notre Dame will try to blemish that record in what should be the most exciting game of the season.
ENTRIES FOR BOUTS
Entries for the Bengal Boxing Show, to be staged on March 19, should be filed before Thursday, March 11. These should be turned in to Jim Waldron, 101 Walsh; Paul Foley, 233 Walsh; Gene Vas-lett, 270 Dillon; Cy Stroker, 310 Walsh; and Frank Schiavone in the apparatus room in the gym. The entrants should fill in their name, hall, the class to be entered, and previous experience.
IRISH HOST TO BEVY OF TRACK STARS
IN C. I. C. MEET
•
Coach Nicholson and his Notre Dame track team wrill play host to a multitude of track stars next Friday and Saturday, as the outstanding thinlies of the Central Intercollegiate Conference converge on the local fieldhouse for the annual track and field carnival.
This year’s aggregation will number as many outstanding stars as any previous C.I.C. meet, and several conference records are in danger of being shattered. Drake has given assurance that they will be represented, a bit of news which will not cause the Irish tracksters to break into laughter. The Bulldogs, it will be remembered, defeated the Irish in a dual meet a week ago. Marquette, who lost a decision to the Nickmen, will be on hand, as will teams from Pittsburgh, Michigan Normal, Western State Teachers, North Central, Butler, Wayne and other colleges.
One of the outstanding attractions will be the appearance of Ed Burke, Marquette high jumper. Saturday night in New York the dusky jumper set a new world’s record by clearing the bar at 6 feet 9% inches. The Marquette star will have to be at his best, as he will have stem competition from Noisette and Drewyour, both of Michigan Normal, who have been setting impressive records in dual meets.
One of the few returning conference record holders, Rosenkrantz of Michigan Normal, will be the center of attraction, as he attempts to lower his meet record of 1:55 for the half mile. Francis’ display of speed in the Drake meet proves that the Chicago lad is back in form, and he is expected to push Rosenkrantz to the limit.
As usual, the mile run has several possible record breakers among the entries. Michigan State is sending down Ken Waite who has been turning in close to record time all season, and who can be counted upon to be at his peak Saturday. Notre Dame’s own Greg Rice is a sure bet to be fighting it out with the leaders, and if pushed, is likely to be clocked in better time than he turned in last Saturday when he established a new Notre Dame indoor record.
The Irish thinlies can top off a mediocre season by making an impressive showing in' Saturday’s carnival. Captain Jordan and his teammates have been working hard, and are expected to be in far better shape than at any time previous.
Trial heats will be run off Friday night, and the finals held Saturday afternoon.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
17
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY CY STROKER
The Drake track meet last Saturday was a hard one to lose, especially after Notre Dame had piled up a lead before the running of the decisive mile relay and held a lead in that event for seven laps. Of course, the Drake team played it smart in using their fastest man for the final round, but somehow we felt cheated just the same. There is a lot of controversy rampant on the campus whether or not someone hit the baton out of Parson’s hand on the last turn. As it was, it wouldn’t have made any difference even though Parsons had kept the baton, for the Drake man had a five-yard lead, but lest such an accident be the cause of Notre Dame’s losing some future meet, it might be advisable for the spectators to stay in their places. After’ all, it is just as easy to see the finish from the stands as it is from beside the track.
The surprise performance of Greg Rice in the mile leads us to believe that the track team is going to be much enlivened by the material coming up. His 4:19 time lowered a Notre Dame record of thirteen yars’ standing. John Francis' winning of the half mile against such a fast field certainly deserves a lot of praise, but John is one of the Old Guard so that Nick can’t build his hopes for future years around him. The much-acclaimed Szumachowski disappointed some of his following by placing fourth in the two-mile, while Notre < Dame’s little-heralded Gormley trailed the winner to a close finish. But there seems to be little cause for alarm. Drake’s Feiler set a new record in the event, and Szumachowski could hardly be expected to better that in his first collegiate competition. We expect that he will improve rapidly as time goes on.
The failure of any Notre Dame man to clear the bar at six feet cost the Irish at least three valuable points, but things are looking brighter even in that event. We understand that there is a freshman coming up who can do 6-4 with the greatest of ease. There was a time, not long ago, when such a height would invariably mean a first place in any meet. But the way records are falling these days makes it hard for trackmen to keep up the pace. The six foot, nine and three-quarter mark set by Ed Burke of Marquette last Saturday pushes that elusive bar up another notch, and the day may soon come when the records of Notre Dame’s Vince Murpry won’t look so startling as they do now*. Murphy once did six feet, nine and one-quarter inches in practice but couldn’t duplicate the feat in a meet so that he was never able to bettei’ the world’s record officially.
The Minnesota basketbail game will be our last opportunity to see Notre Dame play this year, and we hope that the Keoganmen will put on a show that will be worthy of the event of our being a basektball-game-watcher-for-the-last-time. As things look at the present time, with Minnesota tied with Illinois for the Big Ten championship, the Irish may have some difficulty. We can’t help but think-that there may be a last of the season let-down for Notre Dame, while the Gophers, realizing-that a victory over the Irish will just about prove their supremacy in the Big Ten, are bound to be hot. We await the game with fear and trembling.
With so much material on other pages of this issue, and with the appearance of so many stories in the last few issues, we hesitate to insult your intelligence by reminding you of the Bengal Bouts on March 19. Still, with such a golden opportunity to see the University’s tops in contests of skill and science, we should hate to have you left out because of lack of information. If you have not already done so, turn to the story on page thirteen and get an idea of the pleasures that await you two weeks from tonight at the gym. And remember, the admission is only twenty-five cents, the price of a poor double feature in one of those down-town moving picture dens.
Swing music!
But this particular kind of "swing” isn’t typical of Benny Goodman. It’s the terrific swing that’s going on this season toward Hart Schaffner & Marx clothes. For more and more young men throughout the country are constantly recognizing the importance of the Trumpeter label and what it stands for . . . that’s why we’re selling more Hart Schaffner & Marx clothing this season than we have in many a year. And that’s why we’d like to say to you . . . "get on the bandwagon and swing over to Hart Schaffner & Marx.” You can’t go wrong! •
SAM’L
SPIRO & CO.
South Bend, Ind.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
Illinois Track Meet
(Continued from Page 14)
ran the 60-yard in .06.2. Last Saturday night he took second place in the National A.A.U. 60-yard dash, in New York.
Bruder and Frary are two mainstays in the weight events, while Cullinan has been setting a fast pace this
year in the 70-yard low hurdles. Probably the weakest part of the Illini squad lies in the 440-yard run.
The high jump is capably taken care of by Biefenthaler, who skims the top at 6 feet 1 inch. Hackett is the best pole vaulter on the team, generally clearing the bar at 12 feet 6 inches. Gaines and Cunkle are two prominent half-milers.
Coach Nicholson will probably rely
on Levicki, Faymonville, and Beinor for a “grand slam” in the shot-put. Rice, who last week beat Drake’s great star, Ray Mahannah, will be relied on to account for a victory in the mile run.
Captain “Bucky” Jordan, Langton, Sheehan, Mahoney, Francis, Boyle, and Gott are other outstanding Irish thinlies entered in the dash, middle distances, and pole vault events.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1987
19
IRISH HANDBALL MEN TIE CHICAGO TEAM
Notre Dame’s handball team journeyed to Chicago last Saturday afternoon to meet the University of Chicago handballers and returned with a 3-3 tie. This was the second time that the two teams haev tied, the other tie having resulted in their first meeting at the Notre Dame handball courts two weeks ago.
Th singles matches were divided between the Maroons and the Irish. Bill Fallon and Johnny Claire both won their matches for the Irish, but “Red” Darcy and Fred Mundee both dropped their tilts so that the score stood 2-2 going into the doubles.
In the doubles Fallon and Claire paired up to beat their Chicago opponents and gave Notre Dame a 3-2 lead. Mundee and Darcy failed to follow suit and the Irish had to be content with a 3-3 tie.
If present plans develop the next opponent for the Irish handball team will be Illinois, with whom a home-and-home series is desired.
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, '02 at the
Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel
On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe in connection.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
—FINEST * ■ BRIAR-
■ MONEY CAN BUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
212 So. Michigan St.
,South Bend
Interhall Basketball
(Continued from Page 13)
The heavyweight play-off turned out to be a rough-and-tumble affair, with the Brownson Bruisers giving and taking a little bit better than the juniors from Howard. The dorm lads held a slight advantage throughout the game, but not until two quick field goals were registered in the last two minutes was the outcome certain.
Handicapped somewhat by the loss of one of their mainstays of the season, Alan Mooney, the Brownson quintet displayed a smoother passing
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
66 BAFFLES inside
FILTER-COOL SMOKE
MEDICO
SH KW WHIM FINISH. tU SHIHS
/V
BAFFLES BREAK UP SMOKE STREAM - -FILTER REALLY FILTERS

IOMITHING WONDIIFUl GOH ON INSIM
This simple appearing yel amazing absorbent filter invention with Cello phane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bile, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand aromaofany tobacco.
attack and cooler all-around game than the upperclassmen from Howard. So tight was the defense thrown up by the men from under the dome that Sweeney was the only Howard player to register more than once from the floor. Papp, with four field goals, was high scorer for the evening. Hollendoner played a brilliant floor game in addition to collecting six points. Sweeney, with two baskets and a foul shot, led the juniors. McCarthy played a great defensive game besides caging a bucket.
The IDES of MARCH can't stop the SS train from running ON TIME
The weatherman’s surprise parties won’t bother your trip via South Shore Line. Whether it’s rain or shine, warm or cold, outside, you’ll be comfortable and safe and arrive on time. In March—and every month—it costs less to go by South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
Keogonmen At Detroit
The Notre Dame basketball squad plays its twenty-third and last game .of the season Friday, March 12, against the University of Detroit in the Auto City.
The Titans have had a rather amazing season, having at one time just six men in playing condition. They lost a first string guard, Ed Lukaszewicz because of appendicitis. Then three men were declared ineligible. Finally Coach Lloyd Brazil had to replenish the squad by calling on football men and intramural players.
Roger Hayes, one of the men so drafted from the football team, has been working well at guard in place of Lukaszewicz. Capt. Larry Bleach, a former all-city player at New York Textile High school, is the other guard, while Ernie Kolibar and “Pudge” Cavanaugh are the forwards. The center is Chet Laske. These men have only three substitutes, Bill Kerwin and Johnny Shada, guards and Howard Whaley, center.
Yet this squad that has not the personnel for two full teams has lost only two games all year—to Toledo university, away, 39-38 in overtime, and to De Paul, away, 34-19. Last Saturday night in Detroit, however, they levelled the score with De Paul, taking over the Chicago team, 29-24, showing exceptional tightness and alertness on the defense.
Notre Dame’s senior - sophomore quintet, on the rebound after losing to Ohio State, defeated Detroit in the final game of last year’s schedule, 52-28.	'
TT looks harmless, but this fungus destroys poles. J- So telephone research men wage war on it.
In the Bell Telephone Laboratories, they study many woods, concoct many preservatives. In Mississippi, Colorado and New Jersey—where conditions vary widely—they’ve set out whole armies of treated test poles. Their continuous experiments yield many a weird but valuable fact about destructive fungi and insects.
Since the Bell System each year uses over 500,000 poles for replacements and new lines, lengthening pole life is most important. It’s one more way to make telephone service still more dependable.
Why not give the family a ring tonight? Rates to most points are lowest after 7 P.M. and all day Sunday.
BELL TELEPHONE
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE ' PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
21
Varsity Show Tonight
(Continued from Page 3)___ gram is in progress. It is expected that the gym will be filled early and guests are asked to co-operate with the announcer and with Mr. Held in following instructions.
The complete program for the show follows:
Opening, band, “The Wearin’ of the Green”
Audience sing, “Hike Notre Dame” Glee Club, “On Down the Line” Frank Barbush and his trio, “Bugle
Call Rag”
Joseph McNally, imitation of W. C. Fields and Lou Holtz
Bob Holtt, tuba solo, “O’er the Billowy Seas”
Arthur Davidson, piano solo, Chopin’s “Black Key Etude”
A short historical sketch of the University, by Mr. Held
Abe Zoss, reading “The New Recruit” by H. I. Phillips
Band, “The Belle of the Campus”
Glee Club, “My Big Brother” and “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By”
Comedy Sketch
Moreau choir, “0 Sacrum Convivium” Band, “St. Louis Blues” Close, the “Victory March”
MAX
ADLER
“The Big Store
on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
EUswnrtlj’a
SHIRTS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 5, 1937
Laetare Medalist
(Continued from Page 3)
around the edge of the disc. The design of the medal is changed each year depending on the profession of the recipient.
The name of the final recipient is selected from a list submitted to Rev. O’Hara and the Laetare Medal committee. Following a close examination of the achievements of the recommended persons, the committee selects one for this great honor. John Gilmary Shea, an historian, received the first medal from the University as the practice was inaugurated by the Very Rev. Father Sorin.
The roll of medalists include names of persons selected from every walk of life — statesmen, financiers, artists, writers, soldiers, scientists, architects, jurists, orators and economists.
Since 1925 many famous personages have merited the medal. Some
of the more noted are the Hon. Alfred E. Smith, John McCormack, Dr. Stephen S. Maher, Mrs. Genevieve Garvin Brady, and Dr. Albert F. Zahm. Last year’s recipient was Richard Reid, Georgia editor and educator.
March 10, 1894—Tommy: “I hear that our friend the tenor has been arrested.”
automatic free draft (2) double action condenser. The best pipe you can buy for $1. Nothing else has its flavor.
% SWEET AS HONEY
Sweet as a well-seasoned pipe, on the first smoke! And the honey-curing keeps it sweet. Special attachment supplies (1)
YELLO-BOLE
Marquette’s basketball team can be termed the “melting pot.” PAUL SOKODY is Hungarian, GLENN ADAMS is English, GEORGE HESIK is a Bohemian, and the guards, ERWIN GRAF and DAVE QUABIUS, are German and Norwegian. Coach BILL CHANDLER also has a few Irishmen, an Italian, a Scotchman, and finally a Slav.
MANET'S A«EW
SB!
LONG FILLER
7
What a Pickup!! That LITTLE FENDRICH ’ Panetela just naturally lifts you into a class above ■ ordinary smokers ... So if your new car and the •girl you’re with are both “honeys”, don’t forget’ • to make it a threesome by having plenty of those mild ... inhalable LITTLE FENDRICH Panetelas to complete the evening ... It’s a Honey!!!
-LITTLE l-ENDRICH
Carole Lombard says:
Advised by my singing coach, I changed to Luckies
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
"In my new picture 'Swing High, Swing Low’ I sing a song for the first time since I have been on the screen. To do this, I spent months taking singing lessons. And with this added strain, my throat was not in good shape. My singing coach suggested that tvhen choosing cigarettes, I select a light smoke. And so I changed to Luckies. Since then I’ve found that a light smoke and my throat get along together just fine.”
CURRENTLY STARRING IN PARAMOUNT PICTURES’ "SWING HIGH, SWING LOW”
An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke.
Miss Lombard verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process "It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.
A Light Smoke "It’s Toasted”-Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937. Ths American Tobacco Company
All over the country, you hear more people mention the refreshing mildness and the pleasing taste and aroma of Chesterfield cigarettes. You hear somebody compliment Chesterfields at a party. Another time, the grocer tells you it’s a darn good cigarette. Or you see a group of men on a street corner, most of ’em smoking Chesterfields. Because they have what smokers like, Chesterfields are humming right along . . . "J . x	jgxxBjagg	Z	ygggX	& ||B ilH	J® ■W |®F<	W ■Mta^	y> KPHt'mEt 4 - Mm 1 HBEk - ~ - jrt J*l?-.... -Zill..	X.W '' Hz-y gS||||||||||||||BMBgggm HHO’SK/A # wW 1 Ha / Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.