THE IMCTKE DAME
%
SCHOLASTIC
&
Of
&

Notre Dame
Indiana
Vol. 83, No. 7
January 5,
1945
Band Concert
Wednesday
la
.... and Our Lady saw another New Year born on campus, like so many before it. . . .
Photo by Eugene Reynolds
in Drill Hall
f SOLE AGENCY FOR DOBBS *1

NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP
TDEGULATION in every respect, yet revolutionary in a great many respects. So easy to change covers that you can almost do it blindfolded. Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course. Check the exclusive features and you’ll know why the Sea-Master is a tremendous improvement over any other naval cap made.
REMOVABLE GROMMET
Exclusive feature for quick changing of covers
GUIDE HOOK
For easy insertion of grommet
"SELF-STARTER"
centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover
MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert*s
2
APPOINTED BY THE U. S. NAVY
Gel More Quality for Less in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
created by the U. S. Navy
*40
RAINCOATS
with removable All Wool Linings
$38S0
We are set up to equip you with great speed if necessary.
8 BLOCKS SOUTH
on Michigan Street!
^JNUSUAL distinction, excellent tailoring, inherent smartness! You’ll find them all in these
durable uniforms, featured in our One Stop Naval Shop! Produced under the supervision of the Navy Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. Our master tailors and expert clothing salesmen are your assurance of courteous, unexcelled fitting service.
THE MODERN GILBERT'S (hut Mut JjMi dtotitVl’
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert9 s
3
^he SNotre Q^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
...By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Navy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE' ----- Circulation Manager
i	■
.	COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY JOHN POWER -HARRY WALTERS GEORGE KRAUSER j ART WAGNER - ‘
-	-	- Observations
-	- The Green Banner
-	The College Parade
Splinters from the Press Box -	- Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR JACK McGRANE
BOB COCHRAN GREG HALPIN ENRIQUE LULLI JACK MILES TOM McNALLY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JIM CAREY JOHN FEENEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
DON WHITE
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate '.Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York Qty—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. "rHi; SCHOLASTIC is' published weekly during the school year, except during- vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
4
MISPRINT OF THE WEEK:
The Indiana Student announcing that Benny Leonard had been given an award by the New York Boxing Writers as the man who did most for the sport during 1944 ran the following headline:
“Leonard Is Given Boxers Plague.”
We wonder if the Boxers Plague resembles Notre Dame’s ill-famed “Turkey Trot.”
SIGN OF THE WEEK	*
The Auburn Plainsman reports a local drugstore display: “No If’s, Ands, or Butts.”
❖
FISH STORY OF THE WEEK—Comes to us from Daily Kansan
“Imagine trying to get into your office with a huge five-foot fish blocking the doorway. That’s the situation Henry Werner, dean of activities, found when he tried to get into his office. Pinned on the fish was a note which read:	•
“Time hangs heavy on one's hands
“Waiting for fishing days so dear;
“So here’s a token of consolation to suffice “Until the coming year.”
When asked what he intended to do, Dean Werner replied: “I’m going to try to get a line on the culprit.”
THREE LITTLE WORDS ’
The Green Gander of Iowa State supplies us with a list of the three sweetest words in the English language:
1.	“I love you.”
2.	“Dinner is served.”
3.	“All is forgiven.”
4.	“Sleep till noon.” '
5.	“Keep the change.”
6.	“Here’s that five.”
And the saddest were:
1.	“External use only.”
2.	“Buy me one.”
3.	“Out of gas.”
4.	“Dues not paid.”
5.	“No more beer.”
6.	“Rest in peace.”
❖
GIFT OF THE WEEK—
The Daily Kansan also tells us that “From a foxhole in Southern France” recently came a veritable Bronx cheer directed at the University of Kansas coeds who smoke corn cob pipes because of the lack of cigarettes. This long distance “boo” was in the form of a biting letter and a package containing pipe tobacco, matches, and cigarettes, supposedly to help the cuties out of their plight caused by the current cigarette shortage.
That’s nothing—The laundry gals have been smoking corn cob pipes for years.	(Continued on page 19)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June .25, 1918.
Vol. 83	.	JANUARY 5. 1945
No. 7
Most Rev. Ritter Installed as Archbishop
4^04
Father O'Donnell Represents.University as Indianapolis is Elevated to an Archdiocese in Solemn Ceremonies.
BY FRANK GRIMALDI
With the ending of the year 1944, it is found that Notre Dame men have paid dearly in life for the defense of their country. The casualties to date number 165 killed in action, 24 missing, and 26 prisoners of war.
★ 161 Capt. Francis Thomas Farrell, ’39, South Bend, Ind., was killed in action Dec. 10, 1944 on the German front. He was a liaison pilot for the Third armored division of the First Army. Before his death, Capt. Farrell was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart.
★	162 Leonard Joseph Herriges, ex. ’43, Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, was killed in action with the 4th Army on the Western Front.
★	163 Lt. Richard Baker Kelly, ’40, Lorain, Ohio, was reported killed in action. No other facts concerning his death are available.
★	164 Pvt. Thomas F. O’Neill, ex. ’30, Albany, New York, was killed in action on Dec. 4, 1944 in France. He was with the Third Army.
★	165 Lieut. John Harold Tallett, ’43, North Chicago, Ill., of the Army Air Corps was lost in action on Dec. 11,1944 in a raid over Yugoslavia.
Lieut. Samuel Sturgis Lawler, ex. ’38, South Bend, was reported missing in action by Capt. William McCollum.
Pfc. Francis Anthony Giordano, ex. ’44, Jersey City, New Jersey, is a prisoner of war of the German government. Previously he was auditioned by the Pope in Rome in June.
Ens. J. Paul Limont, ex. ’44, Pittsfield, Mass., regular end on the Notre Dame 1943 football team, was slightly wounded in the head by shrapnel fire during a recent amphibious operation in the Philippines, but has now returned to active duty.
Lt. Philip Michael Wade, ’40, Elizabeth, New Jersey, is now a prisoner of war of the German government.
At Indianapolis, Tuesday, December 19, an important page was added to the history book of Catholicity in America as the diocese of Indianapolis was elevated to an archdiocese and the most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter was solemnly installed as archbishop.
The establishment of the archdiocese
Archbishop Joseph E. Ritter
is cf great interest to Notre Dame, as both the university and the ecclesiastical province have closely paralleling histories in growth and progress. Representing the University at the ceremonies was the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the University, and representing the Congregation of Holy Cross here were the Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., and Brother William, C.S.C. Also present from Notre Dame was the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., diocesan historian.
The solemn ceremonies at Indianapolis were preceded on Monday night by a huge civic reception for the Apostolic Delegate who represented the Holy Father at the ritual. Attending the reception were the governor of Indiana and the mayor of Indianapolis as well as hundreds of religious and laymen.
The holy rites began with the long and colorful procession of the clergy and the celebration of holy Mass by the Apostolic Delegate in the Cathedral at Indianapolis. The Apostolic Delegate read the decrees relative to the establishment of the archdiocese and the installation of Bishop Ritter as the first archbishop of Indianapolis. The high point of the ceremony was reached with the presentation of the crosier and the pastoral staff of authority to the Archbishop-elect by the Apostolic Delegate. This was the actual moment cf being of-the archdiocese of Indianapolis and simultaneously the archbishop-elect, became the first -archbishop. .	- . ,
Externally, the establishment of. the archdiocese has no bearing or relation to Notre Dame’s position in ecclesiastical provinces other than that she is moved from the province of Cincinnati and now falls under the jurisdiction of the new province which includes the whole state of Indiana. An ecclesiastical province is an archdiocese and the hierarchy overseeing it are the archbishop and the suffragan bishops. The Cincinatti province from which Notre Dame is moved, was established in 1850.
The new diocesan divisions in the new Indiana province call for the establishment of two new dioceses, at Lafayette and Evansville, and retains but decreases the areas of the two already established at Fort Wayne and’Indianap-olis. Notre Dame’s diocesan relationship is unchanged and she remains in the (Continued 6n page 15)
5
Fathers O'Donnell and
Cavanaugh Give Talks
Two members of the University’s administration were active last week making public speaking appearances. Kev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed the Te Deum forum of Springfield, Ill., on “The Land We Love” on Wednesday night.
Kev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., dean of the college of arts and letters, represented the University at a special meeting of the National Conference of Family Relations and participated in a symposium, discussing post-war family readjustments of returned servicemen. .
Father Leo R. Ward is
Next in Lecture Series
Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., spoke on “Liturgy and Art” before a group of navy and civilian students and members of the faculty in the Rockne
Lounge last Monday night. Father Laskowski appeared as the third speaker in a series of lectures on the Liturgy sponsored by the Mass club.
The next speaker in this series will be Father Leo R. Ward who will speak Monday, Jan. 15, at 7:30 in the Lounge on “Liturgy and the College.”
John Reith Weds
John E. Reith, ’41, graduate assistant in chemical engineering and Betty Lou McCrea were married in Sacred Heart Church on Dec. 30. Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall, celebrated the Nuptial Mass. ’
Commerce Forum Meets
Richard M. Sadowski, senior from Pensacola, Fla., and Business Administration major, spoke at a regular meeting of the Commerce Forum last week. His subject was “Post-War Housing,” which proved to be very interesting and informative.
Following the talk Mr. Sadowski led an informative and detailed discussion. James Donnelly, Forum president, presided, and Mr. E. A. Smith was faculty moderator.—Mike Garry
Co-Hop Tomorrow
The first Co-Hop of 1945 will be held tomorrow night, Saturday, at the Progress club featuring the music of Bud Simpson and his orchestra. Admission will be GOc and dancing will be from 8:00 to 11.00.
Student Dance Planned For Saturday, Jan. 13
The Student Council has announced that the first of a series of informal dances to be held in the Rockne Memorial will be Saturday night, January 13, from 8 to 11.
The first dance will be under the direction of a Zahm hall committee headed by Phil Luppi, Zahm hall representative to the Student Council. At least two other dances have been tentatively scheduled before Lent.
Admission price will be $1.20 per couple, and the dance will be in the main gym with the music of a local dance band.
Lieut. Northrup Promoted
Lieut. James H. Northrup, first lieutenant in charge of military administration, has been promoted to the rank of full lieutenant as of Dec. 1.
Lieut. Northrup entered the service on April 26,1943 and since that time he has
Lieut. James H. Northrup
seen mine sweeper and convoy duty in the Atlantic, the Mediterranean, and the Carribean. Lieut. Northrup holds a B.S. degree from St. Lawrence University, an M.S. from New York State Teachers College and a doctorate from New York University.
Exams to be Held for
Coast Guard Academy
The annual competitive examination for appointment to cadetship in the U. S. Coast Guard Academy at New London, Conn., will be held on 9-10 May 1945 throughout the U. S. Men selected for appointment will be given four years of scholastic and military training, and will receive upon successful completion of the four-year course a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering and a commission in the regular Coast Guard.
Open to Civilians
The competition is open to unmarried men who are high school graduates and who will not be less than 17 years old nor more than 22 years of age on 1 May 1945. They must be at least 5 feet 6 inches in height, have 20/20 uncorrected vision in each eye, and be in good physical condition. Candidates are also required to have the following high school or college credits;
Algebra ...................2
Plane Geometry ............1
Trigonometry ..............  %
English ....................3
Physics .....-.............1
Chemistry .................1
Other optional credits .....6%
Inasmuch as the examination will not be given outside the continental limits of the U. S. for Navy personnel, only those enlisted men whose units or stations are in the U. S. during the time required for taking the examination, and whose applications have been accepted by the Commandant, U. S. Coast Guard, will be able to participate. Provision, however, is being made for Coast Guardsmen to take the examination afloat or- at certain overseas bases. Navy COs are authorized to grant leave, at their discretion, for men within the U. S. who have been approved to take the examination.	.
Application forms for the examination • and general information concerning the academy may be obtained by writing, via oificial channels, to the Commandant, U. S. Coast Guard, Washington 25, D. C. Upon completion and submission of applications and supporting papers, applicants will be notified through their COs of acceptance or rejection as candidates for appointment. Applications must not be postmarked later than 1 April 1945.
Any Navy man who qualifies and is accepted for appointment to cadetship at the Coast Guard Academy may, upon written request, be discharged from the Navy in order to accept appointment.
—Bulletin Board, U. S. N.
5
Band Concert to Feature Dr. Frank Simon
Curtain Time Set at 8:00 p.m. Wednesday January 10;
Record Crowd Anticipated for Long Prepared Program.
BY OCTAVE EMOND "Scholastic" News Writer
The Notre Dame Band will open its winter concert season this Wednesday evening at eight o’clock in the Navy Drill hall. The band, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, has prepared a rich musical program which features the nationally known Dr. Frank Simon
Director H. Lee Hope
as guest conductor and soloist. This concert will be open to all and as it is sponsored by the University, there will be no charge for admission.
Dr. Simon is one of the country’s most brilliant cornetists, having served for seven years ■with the late John Philip Sousa as cornet soloist and assistant conductor. He has established himself as one of America’s foremost bandmasters and his achievements in the field of band music are innumerable.
Dr. Simon believes that “America is more band conscious today than ever before in its history.” He points out that when he was a boy a school band was a rarity, whereas today in our schools and colleges of the nation there are over-three million young people playing in bands. With this tremendous growth of bands in the schools providing a large market for fine compositions, outstanding composers have been encouraged to write specifically for the band. Then,
too, Simon added, publishers have gone to great expense to have many of the former works rearranged to meet the demands of the modern symphonic band with its full instrumentation.
Dr. Simon came into fame as a con-ductor of the finest band music through his broadcasts over NBC with his professional band, and during his climb to the topmost place in the band world he was cornet soloist with Sousa’s Band. He has endeared himself to the music profession by his great interest in young people. Hundreds of fine artists point to Frank Simon as their inspiration and great helper along the road to success.
For his solo numbei- Dr. Simon has selected an original composition entitled “Willow Echoes.” This selection will give him ample opportunity to demonstrate his complete mastery of the cor-
PROGRAM
The Star Spangled Banner If Thou Be Near________________1. S. Bach
One Beautiful Day (Overture)___Hildreth Andante Cantabile, from Symphony
in E minor. No. 5, Op. 64....Tschaikowsky Valse Triste, from Jarnefelt's Drama,
"Kuolema," Op. 44...........J. Sibelius
Song of the Bayou______________R. Bloom
INTERMISSION
Willow Echoes Frank Simon
Frank Simon. Comet Soloist
Semper Fidelis __________________Sousa
King Cotton ___________________  Sousa
The Stars and Stripes Forever----Sousa
Frank Simon. Guest Conductor
The Notre Dame Victory March
net. In addition he will conduct the band during the playing of three select Sousa marches—“Semper Fidelis,” “King Cotton,” and “The Stars and Stripes Forever.” Owing to Dr. Simon’s close association with Mr. Sousa, he should be able to impart to the above selections much of the pomp and finesse for which Mr. Sousa has become so well known.
Honorary conductor for the evening will be Ensign Tainter, conductor of the
Midshipmen’s band, who will open the program directing our “National Anthem.” An opportunity has been extended to several members of the Midshipmen’s band to participate in this concert by the University’s band, which fact is indicative of the high degree of
friendly cooperation that exists among the various musical organizations on the campus.
The fii-st half of the program will consist of five selections by the band, one of which, the “Andante Cantabile” from Tschaikowski’s Symphony in E minor, No. 5, Op. 64, should be the most sonorous. The theme of this composition has been incorporated into the modern song known as “Moon Love,” and in its symphonic form should provide the band with an excellent opportunity to demonstrate its abilities.
The second half of the program will be given over to Dr. Simon’s cornet solo and to his authentic styling of the three Sousa marches. Besides the popular appeal contained in the program, each section of the band will have opportunities during the evening to demonstrate its wares in spite of the several delays due to the holidays and other minor vicissitudes, it appears that this concert will be very skillfully managed.
7
Fr. McAvoy Speaks on Religious "Americanism"
Last year, in the July issue of Review of Politics, & quarterly published at Notre Dame, the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., brought to the American Catholic historical forefront a touchy topic which had been sheltered in some theological circles for a good many years. The topic is “Americanism,” in the sense of the religious meaning that was given to it at the turn of the century, 45 years ago.
Mostly as a result of Fr. McAvoy’s article, entitled “Americanism and Frontier Catholicism,” the American Historical Association, meeting in Chicago last Thursday selected Americanism as a key topic of discussion at one of the sessions. Fr. McAvoy opened the discussion by delivering a paper, “Americanism, Fact and Fiction.”
Fr. McAvoy who is widely known in Catholic historical circles, pointed out in the opening phrases of his talk that the term “Americanism” as under discussion must be clearly distinguished from the common usage given the word. The Americanism discussed at the meeting was condemned as a heresy by Pope Leo XIII in his Apostolic Letter of Jan. 22, 1899, Testem Benevolentiae. The ordinary usage of the word Americanism to indicate the citizens devotion to American political institutions and ideals, Fr. McAvoy said, was expressly excluded from the Holy Father’s letter. ,
It is those who fail to make the distinction between the religious and patriotic definitions of Americanism that make the unfounded claim that a Catholic can never be a good and patriotic American. The secular press on occasion has failed to make the distinction, and Fr. McAvoy was chided by some publications after the appearance of his article last year.
The Apostolic Letter of Pope Leo XIII resulted after a series of theological controversies arose in the late 1890’s in Europe and especially in France. The manner in which the Pope’s condemnation of a religious heresy is deduced by some and presented as a patriotic dissentient, is reminiscent of late October in an election year when half-truths, half-quotes and misrepresentation have their day.—Frank Grimaldi
'Amistad' Appears Again
E. R. Lulli, editor of Amistad, new campus mimeographed publication, announced this week that the second issue of this magazine will appear this Wednesday, Jan. 10.	.
All those interested in buying a copy may see Mark Butirich, 462 Zahm hall; Rolando Duarte, Breen-Phillips hall;'-or Jaime Velez, 208 Sorin hall.
JUST FOR FUN
. . . by bud dulak
Asked Joe (the Gipper) Phalen how he felt after spending the holidays in the various supper clubs in Chicago.
Joe’s reply was, “I feel worse than a Ubango with chapped lips.”
Many claim that the gin and rum we are impoi-ting is certainly cementing a stronger union between the Americas. Rudy Lopez says, “That is just what it tastes like—cement.”
❖
While Frank Kent was home for Christmas he sailed his boat for the first time in four months. He had a lot of fun until his mother stopped him—she let the water out of the tub.	’
Bob Donlon’s girl friend in St. Paul is angry with him. It seems that he gave her some liquid stockings for Christmas —and now she can’t get her foot out of the bottle.
“Red” Carey told us he gained 50 lbs. in the army—two pounds of flesh and forty-eight pounds of equipment.
Tommy Burns was raised on a cattle ranch in New Mexico and that accounts for the fact that he shakes hands with people one finger at a time.
Dick Miller, the lawyer comes up with this case: Mr. Vice, a poet, sued Mr. Verse, a critic. Mr. Vice claimed that Mr. Verse gave adverse advice on Mr. Vice’s Verses. The Verdict was for Verse, but was reversed and now it’s Vice Versus Verse, but Vice Versa.
❖
Pete Gutowski claims the rubber situation is really getting tough. This happened to him. He was standing in front of Walgreens one evening last week, when two guys came up to him, jacked him up, and stole his rubber heels.
Christmas Leave Short;
Taste of Home Sweet
That “on again, off again” holiday leave finally did become an unrestricted reality and about this time eyelids are slowly raising from half-mast and all are aroused from the mesmerism induced by Christmas cheer. Warned in advance that the New Year would be allowed to pussyfoot into being two hours after all good little sailors at Notre Dame were tucked away in the arms of Morpheus, seamen were forced to cram all the celebration into the three Yuletide days and the Wednesday morning trail from Dillon and Alumni halls resembled Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow.
For weeks before, each noon muster was met by a queue of seamen who winced in a mixture of anguish and dismay while attempting to translate the Discipline office’s masterpieces of guile and double-meaning. On Monday, Ohioans were packing bags. After muster notice all those living beyond Mishawaka and New Carlisle were planning their holidays in terms of Zeebee’s, Bendix and Ball Band. At the strategic moment, Scrooge was removed as Commandant of the 9th Naval District and 1100 on Saturday was designated the time for parole.
After traveling for hours in the baggage rack on a day coach which was carrying the entire adult population of the state of Texas, you finally arrived back home to civilization. You knew you were home just as soon as the conductor poured you off the train, because the sun was shining and you weren't kneedeep in Indiana weather. You were convinced of it when you stood in the same spot for ten minutes without witnessing a midshipman muster formation. You greeted the family, exhaustedly, and then climbed onto a shelf in the linen closet. You were surprised when Mom said that innerspring in the bedroom was not reserved for the J. 0. 0. D.
Dinner was another surprise, mainly because food was served. Plates (round
flat things made of China) were used and Ziggy was not there to see that Stella didn’t give you two mystery balls. It was a well organized affair even without John Unpronouncable to direct you to your seat. Sleep was a ten hour affair (Continued on page 19)
8
Plans for V-12 "Weekend Frolics" Continue to
Materialize as Social Highlight Draws Near Observations. . .
BY GENE DIAMOND "Scholastic" Associate Editor
By LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY, USNR
Now that holiday leaves have become history, the V-12 spotlight of interest is directed to the semester’s biggest social enterprise, the Regimental ball, now only four weeks away. Once each semester, Seaman Igor Beaver and his 836
Baton Twirler Vaughn Monroe
blue-clad counterparts get their sole opportunity to discard their ignominious roles as fall guys for the faculty and turn to the more sophisticated business of making like social lions.
Over a period dating back to the inception of the unit, V-12 balls have become traditionally outstanding both as to their spectacular presentation and to their enthusiastic support from the trainees. The weekend for this semester, “The Weekly Frolics,” shows every indication of becoming the best in the history of the unit.
Since the unit, though reduced in size, has displayed a cooperative spirit throughout the semester, emphasis is placed on making the ball a unanimous affair with every would-be terpsichorean in attendance. With this end in mind, the committee has arranged a well-rounded program of entertainment from Friday night through Sunday afternoon.
Friday, January 26, the Frolics will begin with the formal ball in the Drill hall on campus. One of the nation’s outstanding orchestras will be on hand to create the mood. Vaughn Monroe brings the “Most talked of band in America” to supply sweet and swing in the style that has won him nation-wide acclaim, spiced occasionally by Vaughn’s
own distinctive baritone or the ballad warbling of blonde vocalist, Marilyn Duke.
The Monroe contingent is one of the most outstanding musical organizations ever to play for the V-12 and his appearance at the ball insures the best in dancing enjoyment for all who attend.
Saturday night, the Frolics will convene again in the Drill hall for “Sailors on Parade,” which will be staged as a floor show in a setting which will see the Drill hall transformed again into a glittering night club, the “Club Calis-thenic.” The hour from 8:00 to 9:00 will be spent in informal dancing with music by the V-12 “Commanders.” At 9:00, the house lights will be dimmed and the floor show will start.
Highlighting the floor will be the appearance of the Royal Hawaiian All-Girl
Vocalist Marilyn Duke
Orchestra, an outstanding five-piece instrumental group under the direction of Mrs. Geraldine Roy. This group is especially noted for their knowledge of the Hawaiian language and customs which has given them a large repertoire of authentic native hymns and hulas. They were especially selected from a large group of Hawaiian musicians to give a program for many distinguished government officials from Honolulu recently on tour in Chicago.
The orchestra is an annual attraction at the Chicagoland Music Festival at Soldier Field and recently was acclaimed “outstanding” by the American Guild of (Continued on page 15)
1.	New Plan for Selecting V-12 Men for. July 1945 Quota: Approximately 2,000 enlisted men, to be chosen from the1 Fleet, will constitute the sixth quota in. V-12, the one to begin July 194-5. The 2,000 will be divided among several V-12 units. It is anticipated that those men selected will be ultimately transferred to the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps. The primary purpose continues to be to give prospective Naval officers appropriate training at the college - level in those fields of study most useful to the Navy in accordance with its needs. Only those men with less than two years of college will be considered for the new quota, since those with two or more years of college are eligible to be considered, if otheiwise qualified, for midshipman school. The men chosen will be permitted to express a preference for the type of duty (Deck, Engineering, and Supply Coips only) toward which they wish their training to point.. All applicants will have to be less than 23 years of age on 1 July 1945, will have to be on active duty at time of application, be unmarried and agree to remain so until commissioned, and will have to present a high school or college transcript showing successful completion of courses in elementary algebra and plane geometry. Men who have previously been separated from an officer candidate program for reasons other than flight failure only must have compelted 6 months’ sea duty before applying for assignment or reassignment to the V-12 Program. No men in this new quota will be permitted to pursue pre-medical or predental training, regardless of previous experience-'in the Navy or the character of previous college training. All the applicants must make a satisfactory score on a V-12 Qualifying Examination which the Bureau of Naval Personnel will supply the Commanding Officers of men being considered for* the new quota. Every applicant must meet exacting requirements as an outstanding officer candidate, and must be so certified by his Commanding Officer; and he must also be certified in advance by the ship’s medical officer’ as meeting the physical requirements. Qualified candidates will then be ordered to an Assembly Point for final checking and rating before being ordered to report to V-12 schools on 1 July 1945.
2.	New Plan for Screening to Upper-. (Continued on page T9)
9
"Reveille Review. Rise and Shine" Program on WSBT Headed by Civilian Bob Whitcomb
)
Every morning at 0630 radios are switched on over the campus. Out of the loudspeakers come the words “This is the "Reveille Review’, Rise and shine!” “Reveille Review” has become part of the accepted routine of both navy men and civilians. Credit for this accomplishment goes largely to announcer Bob Whitcomb.
Bob has the genial personality necessary to cheer up his listeners when they feel as grey as the dawn outside. His wisecracks keep the show moving fast all the time. He demonstrates that he is really interested in giving his audience what it likes.
Bob wakes up at 0445, breakfasts, and comes into the WSBT studio at 0615. He handles both “Reveille Review” and the show, “Hits and Bits”, that follows. The thing that most of his listeners do not know is that as soon as he finishes broadcasting he dashes out to the campus to attend class. Bob has been a Notre Dame student since July.
Carrying a load of sixteen credit hours, he is to be congratulated for getting so much done in as little time as he has. He is now a first semester sopho-
Bob Whitcomb
more, previously having had college work in Kansas. He expects to continue at Notre Dame until November '45 when he will attain a B.S. in Business Administration.
Bob will get his schooling in accordance with the G.I. Bill. His eligibility stems from his thirteen months service in the Army Air Corps, prior- to receiving a medical discharge for a twisted back-muscle.
Being out on the campus, he is alive to anything that the navy men might
10
care to hear on the air. When he finds some little item on one of the petty officers, he lets his listeners in on it. He is especially adept at ribbing Athletics Wardley and Zeekowsky. He is fair, however, and tries to spread glory among Messrs. Pomanek, Clason, Broderick and others. Things have come to such a climax that the above mentioned no longer make public bets on what V-12 men will pick up the most demerit cards in a week.
Although it seems easy to talk into the microphone, there are many things that announcer Whitcomb must take care of at the same time he is broadcasting. He must keep an eye constantly on the hands of the clock above him because the show can not ran any extra time. He sits at his desk, and throws the switches that puts his voice or a record on the air. Occasionally he puts on the earphones that are connected to the transmitting equipment, and listens to the program as it goes out.
Bob follows no definite script. The only thing that he must broadcast are the commercials. He gets the news stories off the teletype machine, and reads them whenever he has opportunity. All of his comments in between are ad lib.
The music played on the show is gen-ereally all requested. Bob receives letters asking for certain selections, and then tries to find them in the record library of the station. If the station has them, fine; if they are not on hand, he invites his listeners to write in for some other selection.
Because he is usually alone in the station, he frequently leaves the door to the broadcasting booth open. If the milkman goes by outside, the noise of the rattling bottles comes in through the window and is broadcasted. If a friend happens to wander in, he is fooled into thinking that Bob is not on the air. Bob will then caution him, and inrite him to say a few words.
One of his favorite antics during the show is to replay a record at a faster speed than normal. The records used are supposed to be revolved at 34 revolutions per minute; when they are played at 78 the music becomes garbled. Bob will often have a replay at normal speed on certain sections that he likes. He can’t resist embarrassing the vocalist in “There Goes That Song Again.” His listeners will remember “—you walked off with my heart—” long after they have forgotten the rest of the tune.
—Joe Breslaw.
This week a very interesting picture J g was brought to the attention of the r® Scholastic office by Dean Manion of the Hi Law College. It was a snapshot of Pvt. John William O’Brien, ex ’45, Pvt. Richard Alvin Hartman, ex ’45, and several s--^ unidentified soldiers, taken in front of Fs the Red Cross Canteen in Florence, Italy. rS'
It seems the two met quite by chance S'® in November of ’44 at the canteen. It was Lg the first Notre Dame man either had seen since they had left the United States. Oj
Pvt. O’Brien of South Bend received his army training at Fort Benjamin rS Harrison in Indiana. John’s father is a trustee of the University. Pvt. Hartman of Fort Wayne, Ind. received his training at Camp Wolters, Texas. Both boys belonged to the Enlisted Army Reserve here on the campus when they were MS called to the service as sophomores in May of ’43. Both of the boys were also registered in the College of Arts and Letters. Pvt. Hartman was president of B’S the sophomore class.
Tyke Hartman, lower left John W. O'Brien, upper ricSyo

Dr. Kent Van Horn, Pr Speak Wednesday
On January 10, the monthly meeting of the American Society for Metals will hold its monthly meeting here at Notre Dame. Dr. Kent R. Van Horn, research metallurgist for the Aluminum Company of America, Cleveland, Ohio, and president of the American Society for Metals will speak on “Metallurgy of the Aluminum Alloys,” in the Engineering auditorium at 8 p.m.
The American Society for Metals is
f 1 n
Aeros Meet Thursday
The next meeting of the Aero club will be held this coming Thursday, Jan. IL at 7:30 p.m. in room 304 of the Engineering Building.
A film on the birth and the development of the airplane is to be shown; the second film will be "Fortress in the Sky." Both are being sent from the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences in New York City.
All aeronautical engineering students, regardless of their year here, are encouraged to attend, especially since this will be the last meeting of the semester at which new members will be accepted.
lie
t v 0 c I I t: 1(
1
' g i t: | h
; o a
i i
s t
n a v z g t;

| Meet in Italy
fight to Local Chapter
3
the third largest technical society in the world, numbering 16,000 members all over the globe. Its headquarters are located in Cleveland, Ohio. Its Notre Dame Chapter chairman is Mr. Fred H. Craven, Bendix Aviation Corporation, and the vice-chairman is Dr. Taylor Lyman, assistant professor of metallurgy at Notre Dame.
Dr. Kent R. Van Horn graduated from Case School of Applied Science in 1926. He received his doctor’s degree in metallurgy at Yale university, after which he became instructor in metallur-
i gy for two years in the latter institu-i tion. In 1929 he was a research metal] lurgist at the Aluminum Company of J America and is now assistant manager j of the Cleveland research division. He is I also vice-president of the American j Industrial Radium and X-ray Society.
The American Society for Metals deserves wide acclaim for its valuable contribution to the arts and sciences con
nected with the manufacture, fabrication and use of metals. Dr. W. H. Eisenman, who has been secretary to this organization for the past 20 years, will also give a talk outlining the progress of that society.	—Enrique Liilli
Major John V. Hinkel Holds Christmas Candy Party for 100,000 Italian Children
Santa Claus went to Rome! He even made it to the apostolic chancery in the Vatican. His hand reached 100,000 tiny Italian children who had seen all of the terrors of total war. Yet the Santa was at the front lines in Italy during Christmas. How did all this happen? It is a story that reaches from the Notre Dame campus to the desk of Pope Pius XII and embodies the combined efforts of many individuals and societies both in this country and in Italy.
The story started when Major John V. Hinkel who graduated from the University in 1929, wrote to the Notre Dame publications office and some 20 relatives in all parts of the country asking for candy and soap, and chewing gum which he planned to give to Italian children at a Christmas party he had planned. The appeal was published in the Scholastic and in many papers of many communities. The result was a veritable flood of gifts. Major Hinkel had specified that the candy must go to Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish children alike, received a ton of candy from one Catholic church; and three-quarters of a ton from one Protestant church.
The job had long since become too large a job for any single man, so Major Hinkel went to army authorities for their help. The result was that a central storeroom in Rome was assigned to house “Hinkel’s cargo” and hundreds of American soldiers donated their spare time to sorting and collecting gifts.
Major Hinkel (extreme right) and delegation from N.D. club of Italy visit Abbey of Monte Cassino.
Pope Pius XII granted a special permission for one of the' parties to be held in the apostolic chancery where 250 members of the Holy Name society played hosts to 2000 orphans.
And the man who conceived this idea to bring Santa Claus to a few Italian children, a man who certainly believed that it was “Better to give than to receive,” and whose faith in the men and women on the home front to open their hearts and pocketbooks, brought such happiness to these children who have known nothing in their lives but war with all its terrors, where was this man? He was somewhere north of Rome, at the front, fighting to protect the things he believed in. Fighting that the children of America and the whole world would soon again have a chance to celebrate Christmas in a holy and happy way.
Christmas Holidays Pass Quietly on Campus
On Dec. 23, at 11:00 a.m., the Christmas season officially arrived at Notre
Dame. As always, there were the impatient who could not wait and whose departure was noticed as early as the 21st. There was another group who could not be torn away from the Christmas tree at home and whose late return to the campus was equally noticed.
Yet always through the years, there were the students who remained on campus throughout the holidays. But this season proved to be an eventful one as a number of local activities occurred.
Highlighting all activity was the sol-' emn midnight Mass in Sacred Heart church; the Brothers of Holy Cross singing many Christmas favorites.
Immediately afterwards, the students gathered in Cavanaugh Hall’s recreation room for an informal post-Communion breakfast. An interesting hour was spent there with a piano, Fr. Sim-onich’s cigarettes, and an abundance of Christmas spirit.
11
K SPORTS
Great Lakes, Iowa Pre-Flight—Powerized Quintets-Meet Irish Within the Week
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
Uncle Sam’s boys at Great Lakes and Iowa Pre-Flight play host to the Irish in their next two billings before coming home a week from Tuesday to meet Marquette.
The Bluejackets on Lake Michigan’s shore are going right along in their fourth season of wartime basketball and, as always, are continuing in the Navy’s “winning ways.” In their first war billing, ’41-’42, they won 31 and lost five and the following year they sported a 34 and three mark. Last year, they copped 33 while dropping only three and in 13 games to date in the 1944-’45 set, they have annexed 11 wins after losing a pair to the Ulini early on the card. Since then, they have come a long way, winning ten straight, including a sterling triumph over Ohio State last Monday, 63-50.
Irish in Front
Five contests with Notre Dame in three seasons have found the locals on the long end. A 46-43 win was chalked up by the Fighting Irish in the ’41-’42 session and the following year with the Blue and Gold having one of their best teams of all time, the two clubs split in two overtime encounters, the first going to “the Lakes” at the Chicago Stadium, 60-56, and the latter one being a 44-42 win for the Irish. Last season found the Irish on the end of a somewhat humiliating defeat on the enemy’s court, 84-48 but a determination on the part of Ed Krause’s boys brought home the bacon 10 days later at the Chicago Stadium ■with a 54-51 call.
Forrest Anderson, Chief Specialist who played with the Great Lakes eagers two seasons ago after being heralded as one of the great Pacific conference forwards while at Stanford, is at the helm of this year’s young team.
Plenty of Talent
Among the starlets of this star team are Warren Ajax, guard, who won three letters on the court while attending Minnesota. Herb Ball, forward, was named on the All-Southern conference team for two years while playing at Western Kentucky. Walter Budko, cen
ter, had one year of competition at Columbia and was selected as the AllEastern center and the All-Metropolitan New York center,'besides having broken the all-time Columbia individual scoring record. A pivot shot artist, Budko is also a defensive expert.
Paul Cloyd, forward, an experienced man with a Wisconsin background did a big time playing when he toured China, Japan, the Philippines and the Hawaiian Islands with Twentieth Century Fox, returning in time with his club to win the National AAU at Denver. John Dean, forward, was a teammate of George Mikan at DePaul last year. He scored 21 points against Nctre Dame as his individual highlight. He accounted for 267 points in 25 games. Bill Diffenderfer, guard, once scored 52 points in a single game. Gordon Gillespie, center and forward, was one of Doug Mills’ Fighting Illini last year. Frank Kaufmann was a V-12er at Notre Dame and a squad member last year. Luke Majorki, forward, is an 18-year-old from Fort Wayne and without college expe.imce. His accuracy has put him high in the coaching staff esteem.
Pre-Flighters Tough
Lt. 0. M. Nordly has organized a club at Iowa’s Pre-Flight school, and although not abound with college stars, it does have a most formidable lineup that has been dangerous in mid-western sectors. Ary, a South Carolina product and a native of Indiana, is teamed up with Jim Klein, a good ball-handler at forwards. At center, there is loosely-knit Joe Holland who competed last year at Berea college as a V-12 trainee. At the guards, Charles Pugsley, the Oklahoma mechanical maneuverer, is teamed with George Leddy, the swift-cutting Chicagoan. Other potent members on the squad include Bob Baggott, Chicago Leo high alumnus, Wayne Weaver, fancy shooter from Lawrence college, and Selden Smith, steady guard from ’Oklahoma A & M.
Next Wednesday’s game at Iowa City against the Seahawks will be the midseason mark for the Fighting Irish who have a 20 game card.
Sportscasters Laud ND For Job Well Done
J. Walter Kennedy, director of publicity for the University, was notified this week by the Sportscasters Association of America that Notre Dame had been chosen as the recipient of the association’s first annual award to the college having the best radio facilities. The presentation of the award will be made in New York, February 5.
The 60 members of the association voted overwhelmingly in favor of Notre Dame and further recommended that other colleges and universities in the country adopt Notre Dame’s radio broadcasting policies and system.
Walter Kennedy
The award was made after an extensive survey carried on by radio announcers and engineers during the past season. Two main points were considered: (1) physical aspects of radio broadcasting; visibility from booths, equipment, location, of booths, etc.; (2) public relations service extended: spotters, adequate information about teams and personnel, assistance with equipment, transportation etc.
The long hours endured by Mr. Kennedy in getting out his flow of football facts among other numerous things that all are a part of a successful Notre Dame football campaign, were found not to be in vain. The award foi* his efforts comes as a compensation to a hectic job that seldom, if ever, receives any recognition for the time and energy spent in reaching the peak of efficiency.
12
Irish Split with Purdue in Holiday Tilts;
Record Now Reads Six Wins and Two Losses
Getting revenge for their 49-47 beating last Saturday in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, Purdue played host to the Fighting Irish at Lafayette last Tuesday night and promptly took the honors of the evening with a 44-32 win. It marked the second deefat in eight tries for the Irish who were only previously beaten by a strong Iowa team in late December.
The Boilermakers’ convincing win was sparked by center, Paul Hoffman, and forward, Myrwin Anderson, who got the charges of Coach Piggy Lambert off to a flying start. Even the reserves got to see a lot of action as they rolled up a 36-16 lead midway in the second period.
Scoring only four field goals in the first half and just two in the second half as long as Purdue’s first string remained in the game, half of Notre Dame’s score was made after three of the Boilermaker regulars, Hoffman, Anderson and Haag, had been withdrawn by Lambert
Scoring Weak
George Ratterman was the only consistent scorer for Notre Dame and took high point honors for the evening with five field goals and a pair of tosses. Anderson and Hoffman split the heroism act for Purdue, each getting eleven. Bill Gosewehr, who only three days before had set a new N D fieldhouse scoring record with 28 points, was put back among the lesser celebrities of the evening with seven counters. Vince “Bullets” Boryla was limited to a pair of buckets
Jim Crowley to be the Principal Speaker at Annual Football Dinner Next Monday
Lieut-Commander Jim Crowley, former left halfback in the Four Horsemen backfield, now head coach and director of athletics at the Camp Sampson naval training center, Geneva, N. Y., will be the principal speaker at the 25th annual Notre Dame football dinner in the Indiana Club in South Bend next Monday evening.
Crowley’s appearance assures the success of the banquet. His last appearance at a Notre Dame football dinner was more than ten years ago, and his speech of that night is classed along with that of the late Will Rogers as tops in wit and humor at these affairs.
The former Fordham coach has been in the navy more than two years and recently returned from the Southwest Pacific where he has been on a tour of
and a trio of charity shots. Bill Hassett added six tallies while Gilhooley annexed five. John Dee finished the locals scoring total with a bucket.
Iowa Wins 63-46
Notre Dame’s mighty but crippled basketball five fell before the brilliant, veteran-studded Iowa Hawkeyes, 63-46, . in the Iowa City Eieldhouse, Saturday, Dec. 23, as more than 8,000 partisan fans looked on with satisfaction. The game marked N.D.’s first set-back in six starts this season and Iowa’s fifth consecutive conquest. Previously the Hawks had won only two of eight tilts in the all-time series between the two schools.
The Irish, operating minus the services of their ace play-maker and long shot artist, Billy Hassett, who was bench-ridden with an injured knee, played on even terms with the winners throughout the opening minutes, even taking a lead on several occasions. However, the Hawkeyes’ experience and superior height soon began to tell and the lowans forged steadily ahead. To make matters worse, the Fighting Irish, suffering through their “coldest” night of the campaign, muffed many easy scoring chances.
N.D. soon relinquished an early advantage and, midway in the first period, sliced. the mesh more consistently and the tussle became a point-for-point affair as the count was dead-locked at 10-10, 12-12, 15-15, and 17-17. As half-time
duty, and was welfare and recreation director for a large area. Crowley has traveled widely throughout the theater of operations and was constantly in demand as a speaker by the sailors and G.I.’s He has a fund of stories at his command, and they undoubtedly have been greatly enhanced now after his experiences at the war front.
Crowley was recently head of the newly-organized All-American Professional Football conference and will assume his duties when the conference begins operating after the war. His Four Horsemen teammate, Elmer Layden, commissioner of the National Football League, the rival professional organization, has also been invited to speak at the banquet, but as yet -no response has been received.
neared, Mentor “Pops” Harrison’s boys left the floor with a 28-25 edge. Thereafter Iowa, with Dick Ives and Jack Spencer leading the drive, increased its margin. Even the loss of their six-foot, 4% -inch center, Clayton Wilkinson, failed to phase the Hawks, as his sub, little Murray Wier, more than filled his shoes.
Dick “King Richard” Ives, last year’s Big Ten scoring champ, proved his mettle once mpre as he filtered through for eight baskets and added five charity throws. Good as Ives was, Vince “Bullets” Boryla, N.D.’s accurate and nearly unguardable pivot-man, was easily the outstanding point-getter of the evening. Boryla, although closely watched, shoved home the fabulous total of 26 points on ten fielders and six free tosses. Even more remarkable is the fact that Boryla playing the last 23 minutes with four fouls against him, never committed the fatal fifth, was second high for the Irish with seven digits to his credit and Jack Spencei- trailed Ives with 13 counters for Iowa.
Nineteen fouls were charged to N.D.; 13 to the Hawks.
War Relief Assistance
for Russian Children
Religious groups of all denominations are urged to assist in obtaining a shipload of warm, new clothing for the children of Russia.
The appeal comes in a resolution adopted by Russian War Relief InterFaith committee and points out that: “Members of the Russian War Relief Inter-Faith Committee, mindful of the desperate plight of children in war-ravaged Russia, call upon religious groups of all denominations throughout the nation to use the approaching festive and Chanukah seasons to join in loading a good will ship with warm, new clothing for the afflicted children of Russia, one or both of whose parents have given their lives in the war against our common enemy.”
The broad nature of the campaign, Dec. 11 through Dec. 25, makes it possible for almost everyone to respond. Families are asked, in choosing presents for their own children at this time, to remember a Russian child with a gift of a warm garment. Any size will do and the age is from infant to 16 years.
Where arrangements are not made in some communities foi" collections, the gifts may be mailed to the Indiana Russian War Relief committee, 143 East Market Street, Indianapolis 4, Indiana. They will be forwarded to headquarters and placed aboard the Russian ship which will depart for Russia shortly after the New Year.
I	13
t
I
£
The Green Banner
... By HARRY WALTERS
“No wonder I’ve been a little pressed for time lately,” explained the maestro.
ADDED CONFUSION
Those new meal books which entitle the bearer to eat for the month of Jan-
TOP OF THE WEEK
Happy New Year!
WHERE'S THE B.T.O.	‘
Has anyone seen Power?
The Scholastic sent out four state alarms for “Slim John Power,” the habeas corpus kid, last Monday night. The Banner was due and no Power in sight. Reports came in that he had been seen in the “Flame Room” of South Bend’s recently famous Page hotel.
Someone else said that he had locked himself in his room to read up on Jack Woelfle’s stuff for his future columns.
Has anyone seen Power?
but mr. McAuliffe
The lads returned from their Christmas vacation and once again engaged in the well known indoor sport of squeezing excused cuts from the Prefect of Discipline.
That “genial gentleman” (Editor— both words in quotes) frowned sternly as Tom Burns explained that the stagecoach was late in Clovis, glared fiercely as John O’Rourke pleaded that he was in the club car of the Pacemaker when they disconnected it at Utica, and growled viciously as Tom Niquette alibied that he had met too many Tom and Jerries over the holidays. But it was left to Harry Ryan, Sorin’s mighty mite, to pull the topper of the day. “You see, Mr. McAuliffe,” Harry pleaded, “I went to sleep on the baggage rack of the South Shore and made three round trips before anyone noticed me.”
DON'T BLAME IT ON THE RIVER
Have you noticed Herman, that something new has been added to the local scene? There is a light in that tower across the Dixie. There is a well beaten path toward the Rock. Pat Wagner is shining up his horn and Frank Kent is wearing socks once again. The signs are all there, Herman, there is only one conclusion. St. Mary’s is back.
Herman, stop! Don’t do anything rash.
«£♦
HOLIDAY QUOTATIONS
“You’re the first girl I’ve ever kissed.” said John Graif, as he shifted gears with his foot.
14
Ed Mieskowski—“It wasn’t the egg that did it. Blame it all on the nog!”
CLASSROOM CAPER
“I predict the end of the world in fifty million years,” lectured Mr. Bott. ’
“How many?” cried the frightened • voice of Tom Burns. .
“Fifty million.”
“Oh,” said Tom, with a sigh of relief, “I thought you said fifteen million!”
WANTYATAMEET—JOE PHALEN
“I owe all my success to hard work,” said Joe Phalen, as he laid down his copy of the current best seller, “The Bobsy Twins and Forever Amber.” This was his exclamation of how he had risen to the lofty position of “Head Traffic Cop in the Notre Dame Dining Hall.” He is obviously the executive type, even wears a tie on week-days. Phalen informed us that he spends at least twelve hours every day in concentrated study, attends class five hours, and works ten hours.
“But Joe,” we protested, “there are only 24 hours in a day.”
My dear, there's one of those civilians—what an interesting promise for the new year!
uary in Ford’s Palace have the same green color as the Notre Dame A.A. books.
Harry Zeilstra took the wrong book to the fracas with Purdue. Harry saw the game all right, but he gave up breakfast for two weeks to do it.
RECIPE OF THE WEEK
Did you have a dull New Year’s Eve, Percy? Poor boy—Try the following for size. It is highly recommended by Franl. Gilhooley and Bill Hassett as a sure painkiller.
Purgatory Pushover—Get two pails of lava, three feet of trolley wire, a bunch of wet firecrackers, and the juice of half a lime. Add a cherry, a banana, a watermelon, and a tumbler of No. 30 Pennsylvania oil. Cover with nutmeg and drape in last week’s sheets. Serve in small cuspidors with thin wafers.
Then watch out and make sure that those pink orgleboorgles with the lavender eyelids don’t bite you.
P. S. This is not a recipe for St. Mary’s Punch. That comes next week.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK ,
Pink slips coming.
Coach Handy Schedules Eight Track Meets
This week, announcement was made of the 1945 indoor and outdoor track schedule as approved by the faculty board in control of athletics. Included on the billing are three triangular meets, three relays, the Central Collegiates and the Daily News meet in Chicago.
Feb. 3—Western Michigan, Marquette at Notre Dame.
Feb. 10—Michigan relays at Ann Arbor.
Feb. 17—Ohio, Illinois and N. D., at Champaign.
Feb. 24—Iowa PreFlight, Purdue, at Notre Dame.
Mar. 10—Central Collegiates at East Lansing, Mich.
Mar. 17—Daily News meet at Chicago.
Mar. 27—Purdue relays at Lafayette.
Mar. 31—Iowa PreFlight Relays at Iowa City.
Football Banquet to
Be Scene of Notables
The 25th annual testimonial banquet in honor of the Notre Dame grid team of 1944 will be held Monday night, Jan. 8, at the Indiana club. Dinner will be served at 6:30. Judge Albert Doyle, of Mishawaka, will act as toastmaster.
Of the 500 capacity who are expected to attend, they will be hearing some of the leading personalities in the sports world. Headlining the program is Lt. Com. Jimmy Crowley, one of the Four Horsemen and recently elected president of the New All-American Professional Football League. Also to be heard are Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the University; Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, commandant of the Notre Dame Naval Training school; James Kearns, sports columnist of the Chicago Sun, representing the press; and Ed McKeever, Irish football coach. The coaching fraternity will be represented by Lynn Waldorf, Northwestern; Claude Simons, Tulane, and Bill Alexander, Georgia Tech.
Council fo Meet Monday
The Student Council will hold its first regular meeting of the new year next Monday night, at 7:30, in the Law building. All members are urged to attend as a number of important questions will be presented.
N.D.'s Trio Shines as
East Loses Game, 13-7
Notre Dame’s contribution to the EastWest game on New Year’s Day, which wound up in an amazing victoiy for the West, 13-7, was right there on the firing line with the opening gun. Frank Dance-wicz was doing the calling from the “T” employed by the East and Bob Kelly was at right half, accompanied by Ohio State’s great Les Horvath at the other halfback spot. Frank Szymanski got the starting nod at center where the combination of Szymanski to Dancewicz went well together as it had all season. An old familiar* face to Notre Dame football doings of the recent past was Vic Kulbitski, a member of the Irish *43 National Championship team.
A West team that fought an uphill battle all the way emerged with their margin only three minutes before the final gun sounded. After 10 minutes had elapsed in the first quarter, an aerial, Dancewicz to Kelly, set-up the East’s first score which came on the next play from Dancewicz to end Jack Mead, of Wisconsin. But that was the totality of the East scoring—being good enough to hold the edge until right up near the end.
MOST REV. JOSEPH E. RITTER (Continued from page 5)
Fort Wayne district. The University has been included in the Fort Wayne diocese since its establishment in 1857.
The Indiana province had its embryonic beginning in 1834 when the first diocese of the state was established at Vincennes. This diocese was later moved to Indianapolis. In 1842 the grounds for Notre Dame University were given to Father Sorin and six Brothers after they had responded to a call by the bishop to the Congregation of the Holy Cross to aid in developing the extensive diocese. The chronological development and growth of Catholicity in Indiana was paralleled by the University’s rise to her present position.
Throughout the past one hundred years the relations have been close between Notre Dame and her diocesan hierarchy.
A collection of thousands of valuable art objects, known as the Gurley Art collections, gathered chiefly from European and oriental sources over a period of almost 70 years, has been presented to Beloit college by Mrs. William F. E. Gurley of Chicago, and is being installed at Theodore Lyman Wright art hall on the campus.
New Chef Appointed
Bernardo Del Valle has been appointed new executive chef of the University dining halls according to David C. Ford, dining hall manager.
Mr. Del Valle replaced Marius Badini who resigned to accept a hotel position in Rome, N. Y. A native of Spain, Mr. Del Valle has held executive hotel positions in the United States during'most of the last 28 years and was formerly connected with the Park Central hotel and the Yale club, New York City, and with the Surf club, of Miami, Fla. He resigned his position with the British Colonial hotel at Nassau, Bahamas, to accept the position here.
WEEK-END FROLICS (Continued from page 9)
Stringed Instrument Musicians. Featured also with the orchestra will be Miss Dolores Gembar, widely known artist of the Hawaiian Hula. The group has been very active in U.S.O. work throughout the country.
At 10:00, trainee talent will take over to present “Sailors on Parade.” Opening the show will be the presentation of the “Floradora Sextette,” precision chorus selected from the best male pulchritude at Notre Dame and featuring such beauteous Ziegfield discoveries as Sullivan, Westenkirchner, Cartwright, Gunn and Lankey.	-
The “Floradoras” have appeared before all the crowned heads of Europe and are noted for their grace and agility. Following the chorus, will come a stream of trainee acts including such “Nites and Daze” favorites as Pianist Jack Milder and the “Redcaps,” vocal octet.
The floor-show will end at 10:00 and the “Commanders” will take over again for another hour of informal dancing.
The weekend will be completed with the Ice-carnival on Saturday afternoon and a tea dance at one of the downtown clubs on Sunday afternoon. ■
Bids will go on sale very shortly at the previously announced price of $5.00 for the entire weekend. Arrangements are now in progress for a mixer at St. Mary’s before Ball time.
All those interested in housing accommodations for out-of-town guests are advised to see J .J. Cahill, housing chairman, in 145 Alumni. A good supply of rooms, both single and double, is still in demand.
A 100-watt electric light bulb burning continuously would consume nine-tenths of a ton of coal in a year.—Bits Out of Life.
15
NEW YEAR'S EVE CELEBRATION
To most of you, the New Year’s “celebration” last Sunday must have seemed very quiet and uneventful. Perhaps you made a few resolutions that you’re sure to break, and practised writing 1945.
Some of you, of course, tried seriously to overcome, as best you could, the obstacles that the navy purposely placed in the way of your “drinking good time”; and may have succeeded to some degree.
Last New Year’s Eve we were generously allowed to stay up until twelve; no intoxicating drinks were allowed, we couldn’t leave the barracks, and all in all, the earmarks were present for a very dull welcoming of the new year. Almost everyone wanted to celebrate as they had been accustomed to do in the past.
Some had prepared their medicine cabinets with a heavy stock of “cough syrup” bottles; others had gone through the trouble to remove the medicine cabinet of their room and stow the “joy water” within the walls (some of these were terribly disappointed to find later that their neighbors on the other side of the wall had done the same and had tapped their hidden treasure.)
None of our gang had made such elaborate arrangements, but we all gathered in one room to kick around a few stories. After a time a young kid from across the hall came in complaining that he sure would like something to drink. One of the fleet men in the crowd seized the hopeful guy, got out his shaving lotion, put his thumb in the mouth of the bottle and appeared to take a big swig of the stuff, saying that it wasn’t too bad and that he was going to celebrate New Year’s Eve, regardless!
The kid looked on, amazed. Soon he left the room, and a little later* we heard the moans of a very sick. boy. His roommate told us that he had gotten out his shaving lotion to “celebrate” and had drunk half the bottle before realizing that the joke was on him and that shaving lotion is to be used externally only. After he felt a little better, he still was
16
not quite sure of what had happened, and asked the fleet man how he could possibly stand to drink it. The reply was opportunity for a joke on the faithful, that you just have to be tough, that’s all.
❖
SUNDAY MORNING CONVERTS
The wind was blowing, and the thermometer verified the universal belief that it was a cold wind. Sunday’s early morning muster had just been taken and the company commander had given the order, “Church party, fall out.” As nearly the entire company began to fall out and head back for the barracks he seemed puzzled that there were so many more members of the church party than usual, until someone enlightened him with, “We’ve just been converted by this icy wind and the thought of that nice warm sack waiting patiently for us right inside.”
WATCH AFTER LIBERTY
(Overhead 0130 Sunday)—“So you have the 0400-0600 watch. After the rough liberty we just put in I really feel sorry for you. There isn’t anything I wouldn’t do to help you out, old pal, but don’t ask me to stand that watch for you.”

Gosh, how's I. suppose t' know all the V-12'd be gone?
"SMOOCH A POOCH, BUT DON'T KISS GIRLS. .
Some time ago the Purdue Exponent carried a feature story headed “Smooch a Pooch, but Don’t Kiss Girls—Scientists say.” The article brought out the sad but undeniable fact that many diseases are transmitted—in some cases distributed—by the common types (also that patented by B.T.O.’s) of osculation. Furthermore, few diseases which affect dogs can be contracted by man. Of course almost everyone is a lover of dogs, but we believe our readers will run the risks with the ten million mad bacteria. Incidentally, ALL members of the Purdue Navy V-12 program were quarantined during the entire recent Christmas leave.
Sam Dolan Dies
Sam Dolan, one of Notre Dame’s early football greats died last month at the age of 60, in Corvallis, Oregon, ending a colorful career in sports and engineering.
Dolan played guard on the Irish team for four years, winning his monogram in 1906-07-08-09, and made a national reputation both as offensive guard and roving center. He graduated in 1910 and later served as both assistant and head coach at Oregon State as well as being associate professor of civil engineering at that school.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus.
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4M
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana .

AIR WAVES
BY GEORGE DESPOT
"STAGE DOOR CANTEEN"
At 9:30 tonight, Dorothy McGuire, the Claudia of stage and screen, and Rise Stevens, mezzo-soprano star of Metropolitan Opera, team up in -a variety program on “Stage Door Canteen.” The emcee is Bert Lytell, the comic is Ward Wilson, the music is by Raymond Paige —Sounds good to me.
FEMININE PATTER
Hildegarde, recent guest on “Stage Door Canteen,” asked Mary Boland how she liked her new hair-do. “It’s an upsweep,” explained Hildegarde.
“Yes, I know,” said Mary, “ I was just wondering—where did you sweep it up?”
RADIO DEBUT
Danny Kaye, young comedian of stage and screen, makes his debut, on his own program, “The Danny Kaye Show” • (Sat., Jan. 6, 7:00). Eddie Cantor will be his first guest, and Harry James and his Music Makers will occupy the bandstand. The scripts are written by Sylvia Fine, Mrs. Danny Kaye in private life.
♦j.
ENGINEERS TAKE NOTE
“We, The People” presents a special feature on Sunday at 9:30, when Lt. Colonel Arthur Duncan Small, U.S. Army engineer, tells how millions of gallons of gasoline was piped to oiir forces in Normandy each day. Besides Colonel Small, there will be several other interesting features.
VENUS RETURNS	-
Mary Martin, star of Broadway’s musical hit, “One Touch of Venus,” is back again as special star with tenor-emcee James Melton, piano-happy Alec Templeton, announcer John Reed King, and Al Goodman’s orchestra on “Star Theatre” on Sun., Jan. 7, at 8:30.
52525252525252525252525252525
S KJ S pl 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
3
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
1900
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
THE NO. 1 SONG
... of the week is sung by Frank Sinatra and Joan Edwards on “Your Hit Parade” on Jan. 6, at 8:00. Mark Warnow conducts the orchestra, with Lyn Murray’s “Hit Paraders” providing the choral effects.
❖
STATIC
Jimmy Durante, telling Garry Moore about his having tea with the Premier of Canada, began: “Daintily picking up my tea cup, I sips my orange Pekinese (you see, I was putting on the dog).”
♦
CHARACTERS WELCOME TEMPLE
Shirley Temple is the guest of George Burns and Gracie Allen on their comedy program Monday, Jan. 8 at 7:30. Also on hand to welcome Shirley are Sara Allgood and Felix Mills’ orchestra.
❖
I BELOW Q
Gracie Allen told James Melton that George Burns is really a fine singer. “Why he can hit I below Q!”
“There is no such thing in music as I below Q,” Melton said.
“Well,” said Gracie, “George was told he had the lowest I.Q. in music—what else could that mean?”
TOOTH POWDER ON SOAP TIME
Bob Hope, Frances Langford, and Jerry Colona play the leading roles in a
To the 7th Midshipman Class:
Within a few days you will be planning your future officer’s uniform and accessories.
It will be our pleasure to have you call and inspect our complete line, all of which are TAILORED to your measure, whites and greys included. There will be no obligation on your part to buy, until you are fully satisfied.
An early visit to our store and shop will be greatly appreciated.
PAPEEP-WINTEPPCWD South Bend’s Oldest Established Tailors
115%-117% N. MAIN - UPSTAIRS	SOUTH BEND, IND.
PHONE 3-6318 FOR APPOINTMENTS
dramatization of Hope’s book, I Never Left Home. Hope appears on Cecil B. DeMille’s “Lux Radio Theatre,” Monday at 8:00.
♦
AWARD TO BE MADE
As a special feature of the broadcast “Screen Guild Players,” the annual award of Redbook magazine for the best movie of the year is presented to “Going My Way” which starred Bing Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald. Bill Lawrence di-lects and Truman Bradley is master of ceremonies at 9:00 Monday night.
—
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display. ■
Use our lay-away plan.
17
OLD STUFF TO US
Lulu McConnell told keeper Tom Howard that a friend of hers was suing her husband for flat feet—she found his feet in the wrong flat.
THIS WILL SLAY YA
Johnny Morgan throws his boardinghouse into an uproar by asking his partners in boredom to assist him in solving his current romantic problem on Monday at 9:30. His assorted partners include singer Milena Miller, Gee-Gee James, Pert Kelton and Cameron Andrews.
"AMERICAN MELODY HOUR"
Favorite popular tunes are featured by singers Jane Pickens, Bob Hannon, and Evelyn MacGregor on Columbia’s “American Melody Hour,” Tues., Jan. 9, at 6:30.
"THE LETTER"
W. Somerset Maugham’s famous short story of love, murder, and revenge in the Orient will be dramatized Tuesday at 7:30 when the “Theatre of Romance” presents “The Letter.”
THE SQUEAKING DOOR
of Columbia’s “Inner Sanctum” invitee you to listen in Tuesday at 8:00 for the chilling drama of “Desert Death.” Personally, I never listen to mystery programs myself but some people like them.
A COW THAT COULD RUN
Screen comedian Stuart Erwin stars in an adaptation of George Cronyn’s short story, “Harold Peavy’s Fast Cow” on “This Is My Best,” Tuesday at 8:30. Dave Titus directs with the assistance of Whit Burnett, noted writer-editor.
THEY SHALL NOT PASS
Many are the gimmicks used to crash the gate at Frank Sinatra broadcasts, but the topper was used by the lass who told the doorman she wanted to join a Frank Sinatra Fan club. The doorman, who by this time had learned nearly all the answers, countered with: “WThy doesn’t the fan club get you a ticket?” To which the young lady replied, “That’s part of the initiation; I have to get in without a ticket, then I can join.”
A WELCOME HAND TO DELL SYSTEM WAR VETERANS
Some day we shall have the pleasure of welcoming back to the Bell System the men and women who are now in the armed forces.
We shall be glad to see them personally, glad of their skill and energy for the big tasks which face the Bell System in the future.
Trained men and women of vision and energy will always be required to build and maintain this country’s nation-wide telephone system — and to provide the best telephone service in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
18
I
OBSERVATIONS (Continued from page 9)
Level Specialties in V-12: Though no details have been announced, official word has been received that a new plan for assigning second-semester men to upperlevel specialties will be announced at an early date. The official statement includes this important remark: “The new plan will provide for the continuation in the V-12 Program of all trainees now on board, under the same general conditions as heretofore. No trainee now under instruction will be separated from the Program for any reason other than academic failure, lack of officer-like qualities, breach of discipline, oi' lack of physical qualifications.” As soon as the booklets on educational and vocational guidance in the new' Navy screening procedure are received, the second-semester men will be given copies along with their individual scores on the Achievement Test taken last November.
3.	Highest Mid-Term Grades: This mid-term the grades for the men of the Unit are the highest made since the Program began in July 1943, with fewer than nine percent of the complement making grades low enough for probationary standing, and with numerous 90’s and some 100’s in physics. There is only one man in the Unit at present who is in the first semester courses; all others are in or beyond the second se-mester of college, and in general are doing well. Though there ^nll continue to be separations for low grades and for lack of officer-like qualities, the percentage of separations from the Unit this semester will prove to be the lowest in the five semesters of operation here. Disciplinary separations for absence without leave or for excessive absence over leave amounted to three last week.
The University of Cincinnati observatory was the first erected in the United States with public funds.
CHRISTMAS LEAVE (Continued from page 8) and not a passing acquaintance with the top sack. Dad didn’t see fit to wake you at 0200 to stand sentry duty down in the kitchen and strangely enough nobody wanted to know why F-ma.
Then it suddenly became 0615 on December 27 and that loud ringing noise was not jingle bells; that short squat fellow with a single red chevron on his arm was not Santa Claus and you had a date with Heavy Apparatus instead of with Mabel. The notice on the board at noon said “Barracks and Personnel Inspection” and the notice a little later said “Dirty Stripes—2hrs. E. P. D.” It was then you became aware that you had discarded your humanity and had become a V-12 trainee once more.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 4)
HERE AND THERE
“Dashing through the snoiv “With a case of polio"—
was the theme song of the Entire V-12 unit at Purdue, restricted for the Christmas holidays by a polio (infantile to the uneducated).
An infantry lieutenant and his bi-ide, late of the Women’s Marine Corps, are attending Ohio State under the G.I. Bill of Rights.
The Auburn Plainsman says that the Sophomore is the lowest form of animal life.
❖
KILMER WAS NEVER LIKE THIS
“I think that I shall never see
A girl refuse a meal that’s free
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
A girl whose hungry eyes aren’t fixed Upon a cake that’s being mixed.
A girl who doesn’t always wear A bunch of junk to match her hair. But girls are loved by guys like me, ’Cause who would want to kiss a tree.
—The Itascan
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS ANO CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. d.d.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
*23-620 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING '
PHONE 3-2S74
V	LX
7	Specializing in the ex-	J
Y	amination of the eyes.	Z
J Dr. E. J. Cain Z
?	OPTOMETRIST	$
7 Prompt Lens or Frame Repair &
X service in our own laboratory. 6
X 212 S. Michigan St. S
S	Phone 4-8251	v
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
19
f
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myeu Tobacco Co.