HIGH LIGHTS ...
Students Eastward Ho
Tom Barry Leaves New Irish Chant
Army and Navy Next Walsh Leads Interhaliers
VOLUME 75 NUMBER 6 OCTOBER 31, 1941
Rear Admiral Nimitz — Navy Day Speaker
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 j.m.s. Bldg.
South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254
South bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.m.s. Building
Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E, FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING hours by appointment South Bend. Ind.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. d. d. s.
Cyril F. Rose. d. d. s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
2
ON
bridgehead
ders in a
are
i ENEMY TANKS
ADVANCING
You ve got to
be good
for the Signal Corps
That goes for both men and equipment—for dependable communications may make the difference between victory and defeat.
Gathering information and delivering or-flash — that’s the job of the field ed, these tele-
telephone. Compact and ru phones by the thousand—and many other special types of communication apparatus— being produced for the armed forces by
Our 60 years’ experience as manufacturer, purchaser, and distributor for the Bell System fits us to handle all this special work and—at the same time —to step up our production of Bell Telephone apparatus to speed
the whole defense program.
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Start thinking about getting a job.
Smoke anything you can get.
Don’t study at all.
Want to be a freshman again.
<•
The quality and quantity of the “news spreaders” of other havens of higher learning might interest you. The Parade ■will present one or two of these biased, prejudiced evaluations from now on— maybe.
On the spot this week is the published-five-times-weekly Indiana Daily Student. For four dollars a year the students get four pages of campus and Associated Press news per issue. Size of the paper —too big, about 22 by 18 inches. Motto tag is “He serves best who serves the truth.” Paper makeup is solid, nothing exceptionally eye-catching. News—minus front page is sometimes filled out with “Hubert Pirkle, ’45, was admitted to the University infirmary Friday,” and others. Editorial policy—hard to tell. Usual number of who’s this and what’s that features. Pictures at a minimum. Sports page, sadly deficient, hard-to-find, no unusual or colorful stories. Overall blow: NOT TOO GOOD.
That De-emphasis Program Again
Race, Rally, Bonfire—Even Football Game—Planned for Homecoming.
—Miami Student
Bouquets for Britain—Nay, Say the Florists
In the martyr mood, Vanderbilt University girls decided to give up corsages at dances in favor of ribbons. Seems they thought such a noble sacrifice would help national defense. But the local florists protested—after all they have to live. The mercenary-minded U. of V. boys, of course, are all in favor of the ribbon plan. The Vanderbilt Hustler sums up the whole affair thus:
“Are the Vandy coeds going to aid the U.S.O. and Britain or the Nashville florists? WHAT DO YOU THINK?”
Can you imagine the RAF bombing Berlin -with Vanderbilt orchids?
An N. D. Man's Dream
Baker Men to Be Subjects In First Diet Observation
—The Ohio State Lantern
From the Pitt News, slightly changed:
You're A-----------
YOU’RE A FRESHMAN IF YOU Are scared at your first exam. Want to learn to do the rhumba Smoke cigarettes with cork tips.
Think a “jam session” is a place where jelly is made.
Want to be a Druid or a Cwen.
YOU’RE A SOPHOMORE IF YOU Are bored at writing English themes. Think a sloppy Joe is a badly dressed student.
Smoke king-sized cigarettes.
Think a “powder room” is located in an explosives factory.
Want to be a junior worthy.
YOU’RE A JUNIOR IF YOU
Start reading the Trib during lectures.
Stroll late but nonchalantly to your eight o’clock.
Start rolling your own cigarettes.
Begin to study in the Caf.
Want to be a BMOC (big man on campus).
YOU’RE A SENIOR IF YOU
Become extremely friendly toward the women because you’re worried about the draft.
There's a strange case . . . College graduate . . . goes berserk at mention of "88!'
Strychnine Will Also Do the Trick
Cyanide Taps
New Member To Honorary
—Brown and White
❖
The Envious Ones
Overheard at the pep meeting: “Gee, I ought to get an introduction to her. He’s using my hair oil.”
Shades of Superman
Day Council Contracts
Month’s Parking Space
—The Cauldron ❖
There Are Other Angles
Then there was the fellow who wanted to write letters to the Red Cross nurses to keep up their morale. He got the idea from the two U. of Ohio girls who received the big blow because they asked for pen-pals in the RAF.
3
THE WEEK
NEXT WEEK
Top of The Week:
Eighty-eight.... eighty-eight....
"Good-bye, Dear,
I’ll be back for the Prom,” said the sweet young thing to her Sophomore escort. And he’s still wondering what she meant by that crack.
❖
Cuff Notes
Hollywood can have its Mysterious John Montague. We have our own shady character. What’s the story on Footloose Frank Ferrola, the Scourge of Alumni Hall? No, Byron, he wasn’t a student.... Wonder how Lillis would look if those sweat band helmets were blue instead of gold?._A lot of reasons have been given as the first-cause of all that ruckus last Saturday, but “Ack-Ack” McKenna stopped them cold when he voiced his opinion that it was merely the Cheeley weather.... (P.S. as punishment, “Ack-Ack” was promptly beaten down to half-a-man size. If you don’t believe us, look at him.)
❖
Horrible Thought
We’re a little worried over a rumor to the effect that the Naval R.O.T.C. lads, traveling to Baltimore as a unit for the game, are going to stay the night at Annapolis. These are troubled times and, you never can tell. What if they wake up the next morning on the “U. S. S. Roosevelt,” bound for Shanghai, or the Persian Gulf?
❖
Ei Tu, Hart, Schaffner & Marx
Ed Reidy and Frank Pollnow, the men delegated to develop the “Jackets For Seniors” idea, already have thought up a potentially inexhaustible market. All they need is permission to arrange a display of their goods in the Oliver Coffee Shop. Pollnow thinks they might even get a couple of female customers. Somebody suggested that, if and when, the jackets be used as an admission badge to the Senior Mass on Sundays. Maybe they’ve got something there, if the coats are reasonable enough. Then, too, with a few well-chosen unsaid words, we might let the folks at home think
they’re monograms, which reminds us of a couple of stories.
Famous Last Words:
“Bring that chain out here, Linesman.
I think this is a first down.”
Random Rantings
“Flash” Nugent, prominent member of the Walsh Hall Social Register, sent in a complaint the other day about the crowded conditions of Badin Bog Athletic Field. It seems Joe was playing an ordinarily brilliant safety for his touchball team, when suddenly he exploded with a dazzler. Speeding down-field at a terrific pace, he leaped high in the air, and intercepted a pass over his shoulder. Dodging, twisting, turning magnificently, he went the whole 40 yards for a touchdown. There was only one flaw in the play. In the confusion of seven simultaneous games, he had grabbed some other team’s ball.... Sources close to the Stadium tell us Mr. Leahy thinks Joe is potential varsity material, if he can put on 150 pounds, or so.
❖
Louisville Paper Please Copy
P.T. wants his intimates to know that he has acquired an intense dislike for the name, “Cesspool,” and if the boys don’t stop the flattery, says P.T., he’s liable to erupt all over the place.
❖
Signals: "Plato, 1234"
Professor Simon, evidently tired of getting caught in the end-of-period exodus, worked out a new play recently which put him in the clear with time to spare. He concluded the bulk of his lecture on Rational Psychology as the bell rang, tied the threads together while putting on his hat and coat, and fired the significant final word over his shoulder as he slipped out the door. The students were left behind busily finishing their notes.
♦
Bottom of The Week:
“88.”
By John A. Lynch
SATURDAY, NOV. I:
Feast of All Saints, holyday of obligation.
Army vs. Notre Dame, at New York, boys from Hell’s Kitchen and Flatbush take the week-end to visit their kin among the seven million. Game broadcast over WSBT, 12:30 p.m.
Track meet, Mid-Western invitational cross country, at Loyola University, Chicago ; Mahoney’s men out for second win of season.
Movie, “Andy Hardy’s Private Secretary,” a temptress or two mix it up with Mickey Rooney, cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00.
SUNDAY, NOV. 2:
Catholic Book Week begins.
MONDAY, NOV. 3:
Novena for Poor Souls begins, Benediction daily at 5:00 p.m.
Freshman interhall debates, Law Building auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
Cleveland Club meeting, Rockne Memorial lounge, 7:45 p.m.
TUESDAY, NOV. 4:
Knights of Columbus meeting, K. of C. rec room, Walsh Hall basement, 7:30 p.m.
Second night of freshman debates, same place, same time.
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 5:
Economic Round Table meets at the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend, come for supper and tea leaves. Consultation, 5:30 p.m.
FRIDAY, NOV. 7:
First Friday.
Student trip to Navy, Baltimore and Washington; de luxe special leaves at 5:15 p.m.
Open week-end for all, thumbers once again line highways thither.
There will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next week due to the initial appearance of our literary colleague, “Scrip.”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
OCTOBER 31, 1941
Number 6
HUNDREDS OF STUDENTS INVADE EAST COAST
BY DAVE CONDON
Notre Dame’s campus will look as depleted as the Federal Treasury over the next couple of week-ends as hundreds of students take advantage of the Met Club jaunt to New York for the Army game and the official student trip to Baltimore for the Notre Dame - Navy gridiron battle. A few hundred others are expected to take advantage of the Saturday holiday on Nov. 1 or the student trip date the following week-end, to journey to their respective homes in Sunbake, New Mexico; Podunk, Iowa; or Whatsit, Michigan.
The big news is the official student trip, annual highlight of Mr. John Q. Student’s activity schedule. All students who can borrow from the folks, sell something to the Freshies, or have kid brothers with piggy banks, are expected to put 22 shekels on the line and be aboard the N. D. students’ de luxe coach special when it pulls out of the South Bend station at 5:15 the evening of Nov. 7. The air-conditioned special will make an all-night journey and arrive in Baltimore at 8:30 Saturday morning.
From the Pennsylvania station in Baltimore the 400 students, more or less, will be taken via bus to Church for Mass.
On their own for the remainder of the morning the group will assemble at the stadium Saturday afternoon and take in the Notre Dame-Navy grid battle. Festivities at the stadium will be featured by the appearance of the Fighting Irish band which is scheduled to strut on the turf during the course of the afternoon.
Following a hoped-for scuttling of the Middies, the Irish will again take to the busses—this time to Washington, D. C., where the group will be quartered at the Annapolis hotel, one of the Capitol City’s best. The tourists will have Saturday night to themselves in Washington to celebrate the game.
Sunday the chartered busses will again put in an appearance and transport the Irish to the Franciscan Monastery for Mass and a breakfast to be
served in the Monastery dining hall. After partaking of breakfast, various points of interest around the Monastery will be visited and then a special tour of Washington, and vicinity will be embarked upon. This tour will be conducted by special lecturers who will explain the various points of interest. The tour will take in the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, the White House, the United States Capitol, the Supreme Court Building, the Congressional Library, and the embassies and legations of foreign governments.
. . . band to strut on the turf . ..
The students will get a glimpse of other important buildings in the capital and will visit the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, the Lincoln Memorial, and Mount Vernon. Fort Myer and a trip through Rock Creek and the Zoological Parks are also included in the itinerary, which will cover the major attractions within the radius of the Capitol City,
At 3:30 Sunday afternoon the special train is scheduled to pull out of Washington and puff homeward, arriving in South Bend at 6:30 Monday morning. The train, trip sponsors pointed out, is
the latest air-conditioned model and numbers among its attractions reclining seat coaches, special dining car prices, and coach sandwich service.
Members of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. will have an added highlight during the trip—they will be Saturday night guests of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.
The student trip, arranged by Bob Richardson, is paralleled in importance by the Met Club journey to New York this week-end for the Notre Dame clash with the Cadets from West Point.
This trip, arranged primarily for N.D. students from New York and New Jersey, took approximately a hundred residents from the campus Thursday as they left aboard the Pacemaker for New York. Those making the jaunt will be quartered for the most part in their own homes in New York and vicinity. This will give the students a chance to visit their families and friends over the weekend.
Those migrating to New York will return to the campus Monday morning. It was pointed out that although classes were not suspended for those making the trip, it came at a very opportune time, since no classes will be held Saturday morning, Nov. 1, All-Saints Day.
Arrangements for the New York trip were made by the Met Club and were in charge of Jim Byrne, campus manager of student rail movements. Byrne said that there were two special rates quoted for students desirous of traveling by rail to New York. One, at a reasonably low figure, covered rail fare only, while the other, at a higher figure, included a game ticket, etc.
Around the campus the student trip to Baltimore continued to be the main topic of interest among the large group of undergrads. This trip, according to official spokesmen, is made much cheaper when taken in a group than when made by an individual. Besides pointing out
5
YOUR CAR, GENTLEMEN!
the financial advantage, it was also stressed that the well-planned itinerary would enable the tourists to see a large part of the country’s Capitol at a time when it is alive with emergency activity.
Old-timers on the campus, viewing the . impending student trip, have recalled other trips, such as the one in the early ’20’s when almost 900 journeyed to Bloomington on one of the first official student trips. The trip to Bloomington was for an Indiana-Notre Dame fracas in which George Gipp broke his collarbone.
Also remembered by the old-timers, and the not so old-timers, is a trip to Columbus, Ohio, made by 900 students in 1935 when the Irish team came back from the brink of defeat by scoring three touchdowns in the final few minutes to defeat a heavily - favored Ohio State eleven, 18-13.
This year’s trip, under the management of Richardson, is in charge of Father John Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, who has been affiliated with student trips in the past.
The games with the Army and Navy
STUDENT TRIP
A limited number of student trip tickets will go on sale, Monday forenoon, Nov. 3, at the Treasurer’s Office, for the accommodation of those who were unable to purchase tickets Oct. 27 and 28.
Rooming lists may be made up,
promise to be two of the best contests of the season. Army, undefeated in previous starts, is headed by Earl Blaik, who is in his first year as commander of the Cadets football fortunes. On the other hand, Navy, also under a first-year man, (as is N.D.), is rated as one of the nation’s powerhouses. Fireworks are promised for all those on hand at the games in New York and Baltimore when the locals will attack the Army and Navy by land, sea, and air, and campus quarterbacks are wondering if the national defense program has made the Army and Navy strong enough to conquer eleven Irishmen.
It was reported that although tickets for the student trip were on sale Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 27 and 28, upper-classmen who have replenished their Cotillion - depleted coffers, frosh in the chips, or the few remaining Republicans the government hasn’t taxed, may, by some chance, still purchase tickets. Those desirous of making the trip and who have not yet bought tickets, are urged to contact the proper authorities at once and apply for one of the limited number available.
four to a room, and may be submitted to Student Trip Chairman, Bob Richardson, 220 Walsh Hall, at the earliest possible date. Preference will be given to those who desire to room together in Washington, D. C.
Admiral Declares U. S.
Is Now in the War
“We are in the war now and can no longer sit back and watch,” was the opinion of Rear Admiral C. W. Nimitz, who delivered the keynote address in the Indiana observance of Navy Day last Monday from the stage of Washington Hall. He spoke before the faculty, students and guests of the University and commended the action of Notre Dame in recently inaugurating a Naval Reserve Training Corps, in addition to the traditional program of physical fitness for all students.
Admiral Nimitz, chief of the Bureau of Navigation of the United States Navy, at Washington, recommended the most vigorous action on the part of all American citizens to make up for the handicap of the United States in the preparation for national defense. He added that our naval and air expansion should have begun at the same time Hitler’s Germany began work on its war machine. The Admiral traced the present plight of American defense to the disarmament policies of the 1920’s, which caused the abandonment of previous plans for a two-ocean navy. He indicated that, following the present emergency, it will be the desire of the American people to maintain our seapower on a scale adequate to the effective defense of the country, on both the Atlantic and the Pacific.
After the address, which was broadcast over WSBT, South Bend, Admiral Nimitz left to conduct induction ceremonies in the Monument Circle, Indianapolis, for 325 Indiana men recruited by Indiana American Legion posts.
Southern California Tickets
“Any students desiring tickets for the final home football game against Southern California, Nov. 22, should apply for tickets immediately,” Robert C. Cahill, director of ticket sales, announced this week.
The game is expected to be a sellout within a few days. The other three games on the Irish schedule, Army, Navy, and Northwestern, have been sellouts for weeks.
A few seats remain around the curve and the remainder are in the end zone, Mr. Cahill pointed out.
Thanksgiving Date
Notre Dame students will eat their Thanksgiving Dinner on Thursday, Nov. 20, this year, according to an announcement made by Father Carrico, Director of Studies. This is the date of the official observance of Thanksgiving in the State of Indiana.
6
ADMINISTRATION
Publicity Director Tom Barry Resigns
To Join Staff of New Chicago Daily
Thomas J. Barry, publicity director of the University since 1934 and business manager of student publications since 1938, resigned Oct. 25 to become regional editor of the new Chicago morning newspaper being organized by Co-Publishers Marshall Field III and Silliman Evans.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced the resignation of Mr. Barry and also stated that James E. Armstrong, ’25, editor of the Alumnus and secretary of the National Notre Dame Alumni association, will supervise all publicity at the University. Mr. Armstrong will be assisted by William R. Dooley, ’26, managing editor of the Alumnus and director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, and Joseph S. Petritz, ’32, sports publicity director. The new appointments become effective Nov. 1. Mr. Dooley will handle the business department of student publications.
The resigning Notre Dame publicist, one of the best known in the field of college press circles, returned to Notre Dame in 1934 after having served nine years as a reporter and editor of suburban editions of the Chicago Herald-Examiner. He had majored in commerce at Notre Dame and received his degree in 1925 with the same class that produced the Four Horsemen of football reputation, Harry Stuhldreher, Elmer Layden, James Crowley and Donald Miller.
At Notre Dame, Mr. Barry also was associate professor in the Journalism School under Dr. John M. Cooney. He taught classes in copy reading and editing, the community newspaper, sports writing, advertising, and publicity and public relations. He will continue to teach his current classes until the end of the semester.
The new morning Chicago paper will be published six days a week. Mr. Barry will supervise work of correspondents in the entire circulation area outside of metropolitan Chicago, with Illinois, Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin and Iowa the leading contributors.
Mr. Barry has been a member of the aviation committee of the Association of Commerce. In 1939 he was a member of a special social action commission to Venezuela, South America, that was
headed by Notre Dame’s former- president, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara. C.S.C., D.D., now military delegate.
—Bill Scanlan
Thomas J. Barry
Informal Spanish Class Enters Second Year
A week ago Tuesday, the “Spanish Conversation Class” met for the first time this year in the Law Building. Dudley Smith presented motion pictures taken this summer in South America. The group then decided upon a program for the coming year including the purchase of textbooks for collective study and conversational purposes. A group subscription to the Spanish newspaper, La Prensa, was also secured.
The “Class de Conversacion en Es-panol” is a group of lay professors, their wives and friends and a few students who are interested in improving their ability to converse in Spanish. The class was originated last year by Father Cunningham who is also its moderator this year. There is no credit for the class and it is conducted as informally as possible but conforming to a certain pattern. The meeting is opened by a 15-minute discussion of a certain point of grammar, followed by a group-reading of the paper La Prensa and several chapters from
the reader. All discussion is in Spanish.
This year the class is to be taught by Mr. Alcayaga, a graduate student in education. Mr. Alcayaga is a native of Chile and well qualified to- teach the class. The meetings are held each Tuesday in Room 9 of the Law Building from 6:30 till 8:00 p.m.
—J. Clark
Church Bells Begin
86th Year of Service
Have you ever stopped to think what unfailingly evokes a reaction on the Notre Dame campus? The student who is whistling a short refrain; the one who is humming; the one who softly sings or is repeating the words of a song in his mind; again the boy who pauses in the rush of making the next class to say a silent prayer; the one who stands listening in sheer admiration? These students are responding to the peal of the introductory strains sent forth by the bells in the tower of the Sacred Heart Church. With the familiar melodies of “Holy God we praise Thy Name,” “O Salutaris Hostia,” “To Jesus’ Heart all burning” ringing out, we are reminded of the presence of God and His infinite goodness.
In 1856, after solemn blessing by Archbishop Purcell, the bells of Notre Dame were hung in one of the twin towers of the first brick church which was dedicated in 1847. There were 23 bells and a base or “bourdon” (from the French bourdonner, meaning to buzz or hum). The 23 bells were cast in the foundries of Bolle et Fils, Le Mans, France, and the bourdon was cast in Cincinnati. In 1866 it developed a crack and was succeeded by the present seventon bourdon from the Bolle foundry.
In 1875, on completion of the present church the bells were moved to the new. tower. The large bell was solemnly blessed by Bishop M. F. Burke of Wyoming in 1888 under the title of the Immaculate Conception. After many years of use and exposure to the elements, the operating mechanism of the bells was impaired and they hung silent for several years. An old friend of Notre Dame undertook to have them restored. This was accomplished in 1930, with several new additions. The old weight drive was replaced by a motor and there was installed a program mechanism connected with the tower dock and establishing the
7
electrical contact with the motor at the playing hours.
The 23 bells range from 1094 to 15 pounds. Of the 23 bells only 15 are in actual use. The other 8 are out of tune with these 15 because of a defect in casting. Also, the bourdon is cast in a key too low to be used with the other bells in rendering a musical selection.
The playing mechanism of the Notre Dame bells is too limited to permit the presentation of whole compositions. Only the simple melodic form is played.
—Charles Kleibacker
Birth of Airplane
On Notre Dame Campus
Who invented the airplane?
Without hesitation most people will say “The Wright brothers.”
As early as 1883, however, before Wilbur or Orville Wright had thought about such a machine, a student at Notre Dame read a paper on the probable trends we must take in aviation. The student’s name—Albert Francis Zahm.
Although a broad court decision was’ ' awarded the brothers it is still uncertain who first invented and adequately published the information on the aileron system of control.
Mr. Zahm, who has held the Guggenheim chair of the Division of Aeronautics since 1929, experimented on the Notre Dame campus with flying models, gliders, airplane motors and rocket propulsion for airplanes prior to 1889.
The Wright brothers did not think about gliders or airplanes until 1898 when they read in a newspaper the account of the death of a German who was killed in a glider crash. They began reading of past experimentation reports and doing their own research, and in 1903 flew the first motor-driven plane at Kitty Hawk.
Wilbur Wright testified in court, when suing for the patent rights, that he had attempted to hire Mr. Zahm because of a Zahm-authored article that had been of value in his studies of a similar problem.
Mr. Zahm considered himself the first inventor of an airplane and felt that by working for the Wright brothers he would be discarding his contention. After the trial, from which the Wrights emerged the winners, Wilbur and Mr. Zahm remained good friends. Later Mr. Zahm became the Chief Research Engineer for the Curtiss company.
Among the most important contribution of Mr. Zahm to flying was the con-
8
trol stick which moved laterally to work the reverse turning ailerons and moved forward and backward to work the elevator surfaces. He also invented the an-emometer to record the speed of wind and its direction and constructed the first wind tunnel to help his experimentation.
A design called “the Zahm shape” was used on a British flying ship, the first one to cross the Atlantic.
In 1938 with the government commemoration of 20 years of air mail service Notre Dame commemorated the 50th anniversary of successful glider experiments conducted by Dr. Zahm in May of 1888. Dr. Zahm is one of the founder members and officers of the Aero Club of Washington and America.
In 1935 after a lapse of many years from the experiments of Dr. Zahm, Notre Dame inaugurated the department of aeronautical engineering and it is now one of the most popular departments in the engineering school.—Lennon Kelly
Harry Flannery Back
From Berlin Assignment
After nearly a year of foreign radio broadcasting under the strictest radio censorship, Harry B. Flannery returned to the United States early in October. Mr. Flannery was assigned to Berlin in 1940 as a member of the Columbia
Broadcasting System’s foreign news staff.
Mr. Flannery is a graduate of the University. While at Notre Dame, he majored in journalism. He became the first editor of the Notre Dame Daily, editor of the Dome, and art editor of the Juggler. He graduated in the class of ’23.
After his graduation Mr. Flannery followed newspaper work with the Baltimore Sun, Albany Evening News, and a number, of other newspapers.
Mr. Flannery obtained his first radio experience as news and sports editor of radio station WOWO, in Fort Wayne. In 1935 he went to KMOW in St. Louis as a news analyst. Here he stayed until his assignment in the German capital.
—Francis Kearns
Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., chaplain of the 107th Infantry at Camp Barkeley, Texas. Father Barry was formerly assistant pastor at St. Joseph’s Church in South Bend.
Missionaries From N. D.
Depart For Bengal
Four members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, two priests and two brothers, left yesterday by rail for San Francisco, where they will embark Nov. 7, on the liner President Grant, for the mission fields near Dacca, East Bengal, India.
Father Robert McKee, of the Holy Cross Foreign Seminary, and Father Jerome Lawyer, who has just completed a study of the Arabic language at Catholic University in preparation for further missionary work, will be accompanied by Brother Rex, of Dujarie Institute, and Brother Theodore, who has had ten years experience in the missions of India.
They will be joined by 15 other members of the Congregation at San Francisco, including two sisters from St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, and a party of ten from the Canadian Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
The journey, straight through the bristling, war-ready Far East, will take from five to six weeks. Stops include Honolulu, Manila, and Ceylon, where the missionary band will leave for Dacca.
Difficulties were encountered in obtaining passports for the missionaries from the British Government. Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the United States Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, announced at the first of the month that negotiations for the passports were under way, and, by way of explanation, said that the worldwide war conditions had forced England, as well as all other nations, to be ever on the alert with regard to travel and transportation. These difficulties, however, were overcome, and all papers necessary for the trip had been received before the missionaries left for the West Coast.—J. H. Johnston
CAMPUS NEWS
Commerce Forum Announces
Activities For November
The Commerce Forum with capable President John Moriarty at the helm, is beginning to roll this year.
JOHN MORIARTY zenith during the
Off to a flying start from the first meeting of the year the Forum has steadily gained altitude in presenting at the second meeting, Mr. David R. Osborne of the Studebaker Corp., and hopes t o reach its coming months when
notable speakers from near and far will
be presented in succession.
In the past, the prominent speakers named to address this Notre Dame student club were sponsored wholly by the faculty and dean of the College of Commerce. This year, for the first time in its history, the Commerce Forum has been empowered to select, the speakers for its various meetings. This important function is performed by a committee of commerce men chosen solely for that purpose, under the guidance of three faculty members who act in an advisory capacity. The plans are for one lecture a month, featuring a prominent man who will be of general interest to all the students here at school, whether in the Forum or not.
Mr. Homer Buckley, president of the Buckley, Dement Co. of Chicago will deliver the first lecture in the new series, and is scheduled to speak on or about Nov. 17. Mr. Buckley has spoken here before and those of the students that heard him, will welcome his return to the campus again this year. His style and manner of presentation is difficult to surpass and the Forum cordially invites every student to attend. The appearance of other distinguished speakers will be announced at a later date, when definite contacts are made.
On Nov. 3 Forum members will be treated to their second football film of the year, when they view the action of the Boston College-Tennessee game of last season. The week of Nov. 3 will also see the inauguration of the Forum bowling league, in which eight five-man teams will compete on the alleys of the new Bol-Mor establishment in South
Bend. Once every two weeks the teams will battle it out on a handicap basis.
A Communion Breakfast will be the feature on Nov. 16 for all Forum members and a customary mass turnout is urged and expected, in true Notre Dame style.—Ray Duggan
Pink Slip Flood Will Hit Campus After I Sth
On the calendar of events for the first semester is seen this ominous item— “Saturday, November 15—Mid-semester report of deficient students,” which translated means, “the day they send out the pink slips.”
Now everyone knows that a pink slip is the little rose missive informing the folks back home that their Johnny isn’t
New Chant, Eighty-eight, Eighty-eight, Born as Enraged Students Cheer Irish
“Eighty - eight, eighty - eight, eighty -eight, eighty - eight.. . .” “More, more, more, more. . . .” That was the story in the stadium last Saturday when the Irish and Illini got together for a football game. To the mad delight of some 48,000 fans Notre Dame rose up in the last quarter to smother Illinois.
It happened something like this: Steve Juzwik took the ball around left end and was painfully inj'ured. He went out of the game and a new Irish chant was born: “Eighty-eight, eighty-eight....” Twenty-eight points in the fourth quarter : “Another one for Steve, another one for Steve, another one for Juzwik....”
The above may sound incoherent, but so was the game. For a deafening 20 minutes an enraged student body went wild as a series of involved decisions by game officials and rugged playing sent them into a frenzy.
One of the notable features of the game was the brilliant half-time forma-
LATE BUS RUNNING
For the convenience of students the local bus company is going to start running a bus at 11:45 p.m. starting Saturday night. The late bus will be run only on Saturday nights.
doing so well in some particular subject. Experienced upperclassmen are aware that the delivery of the pink slip is the first in a chain of tragic events that befalls the unfortunate one responsible for it.
Johnny’s father, upon receiving the slip, tears up the check he has written for the monthly allowance, sends instead a lecture on the value of study. As if that were not enough, Johnny discovers that he wouldn’t have been able to spend the check if he had it, since all recipients of pink slips are automatically campused.
Moral? Take your pick. Put away the “little blue book” and get out the textbook. Spend less time abroad and more time at your desk. The best time to worry about a pink slip is before you get it.—Jack Anderton
tions displayed by the two bands. The Illinois band, consisting of some 180 pieces, went through its performance with a spectacular array of formations including the shamrock, the Illini, and many others. Their version of “Mother Machree” won tremendous applause from the Notre Dame rooters.
They were followed by the Notre Dame band which then went through its formations in fine style. It was greeted with a great ovation and appeared to be greatly improved over previous showings.
Although Saturday’s game was of relatively lesser importance than others, it was honored by the presence of many distinguished guests. Among them were Mr. Frank Walker, postmaster general of the United States, the Honorable Dwight Green, governor of the State of Illinois, and Father Flanagan, founder of Boystown.
Another of the distinguished visitors was Mr. E. Cochrane, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-American. He was also present at the pep-rally Friday evening and gave a brief talk.
Two other features of the game were very notable. One was the fact that all the conversions were successful for both teams, and that the loudest cheering done by the Notre Dame students for the team was in the first quarter when the Irish were trailing 7 to 0.
—Bob S. Olivier
9
Jabberwocky of Main's Fourth Floor
Mystifies Investigating Students
Up on the fourth floor of the Main Building, there are rooms without doors, doors without rooms, rooms without floors, and windows with nothing behind them. In fact the whole fourth floor is nothing more than a maze of architectural ginger-bread. All of this is the result of the Great Fire 61 years ago.
“On fire, in flames, in ashes! Such is the history of Our Lady’s College for a few short hours, beginning at about 11 o’clock on Wednesday morning, April 23, 1879.” This is the way the Scholastic of April 26, 1879 carried the news that the “College” building had been burned.
In a few hours, the hopes and dreams of all those who loved Notre Dame became little more than a pile of smouldering ashes. However, Father Edward Sorin then head of Notre Dame, and all his assistants immediately began the task of rebuilding and were aided in no small way by the countless friends which the old Notre Dame claimed. Edbrooke (since architect of the United States Treasury) furnished the plans for the present structure and work began. The construction was done by the members of the community. When September rolled around, the returning students were greeted by the present Main Building.
Upon settling down they began investigating the new building. Up to the fourth floor they went to get lost in the confusion of beams, braces, and dead-end doors, as do investigating students of today.
Most maze-like .room is one which is filled with beams running in all directions and supporting little. In this “room” are stored the busts of many of the great figures of the nineteenth century; a succession of greats so real that one almost hears a ghostly chatter.
Luigi Gregori, the decorator who painted the scenes from the life of Columbus on the first floor, also did the work on the inside of the dome. The top gallery of the rotunda is done in the baroque style, that is, in the fashion of the present day stage settings. To one standing on the fourth floor and looking up at the top gallery, the whole thing . seems to be done in marble, decorated with scrolls and figures. But, this “marble” is no more than wood and other such materials. Although Gregori was paid to decorate the building, he was helped by the students who were here from 1911 till 1936. There are initials and signatures all over the lower part of the wall and on the doors, some of
which are very interesting. When Mr. Hanley, fine arts instructor, from whom I obtained the greater part of my information, was showing me around, several of his students accompanied us, and one of them recognized what he thought to be his father’s signature.
Although Mr. Hanley pointed out such flaws in the construction, he added that
Nineteenth Century Great
he thought it was still a good job with everything taken into consideration. He liked especially the fact that the dome supports were built in such a way that Brownson and Carroll Halls could be demolished without taking down the dome. It was built to be a lasting monument to the men who did their best but whose architectural mistakes caught up with them on the fourth floor and created such a maze of mysterious compartments that someone wrote on the wall of one of the lost rooms, “Paul Carr came up here in 1904, got lost, and is still up here, Beware!”—Frank King.
St. Anthony's Guild
Mobile Library on Campus
Last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday the Saint Anthony’s Guild Mobile Library was on the Notre Dame campus. The purpose of this organization is to make known and to sell the products of the Saint Anthony’s Guild press at Paterson, N. J. This trailer goes about the country displaying religious books, pamphlets, and articles — rosaries, pictures, prayer books and the like, which are largely the products of their press. The organization makes possible the extension of the Catholic press into remote districts.—Robert Ullrich
Band Preps For Heavy Schedule of Events
So far, so good! But more is yet to come. Next week will find the Notre Dame Band leading a large delegation of the student body on the student trip to Baltimore, Md. for the Navy game. Extensive work on formations has already begun and the boys promise to put forth a fine showing. A marked improvement was noticed in last week’s performance, and the band made a fine showing as it took the field with one of the finest marching collegiate bands in the country. The 185 piece Illinois Band is noted throughout the nation as excelling in half-time spectacle.
After the Navy game, there’s the Northwestern trip. Here also the band will meet fine competition in the personnel of the Northwestern University Band. Next follows the Southern California game here which completes the football season for the year.
Many students are of the impression that this concludes the band’s activities for the year. But such is not the case. The basketball season opens Nov. 29. All upperclassmen are familiar with the custom of the band furnishing pre-game and half-time entertainment. Not much time is given for the preparation of these concerts for the games.
On Nov. 26, a selected concert band will present a concert in Washington Hall. This is to be the first of a series of concerts to be given by the band this year. The repertoire is gradually widening as the days go by.
So you see, the members of the band are not at the end of their activities. The year is just begun. If the present rate of improvement continues, this year’s organization promises to be the best that has represented the University within the past few years.—C. S. Coco
Central-Illinois Club
Two meetings have been held by the newly-reorganized Central Illinois Club. At the first meeting on Wednesday evening, Oct. 22, officers were elected for the coming year, and a membership limit was established to include all Notre Dame men living within 100 miles of Springfield, Ill. The second meeting of the club on Thursday evening, Oct. 30, was marked by the admission of several new members and the formulation of tentative plans for the coming year. These plans include Communion breakfasts, a skating party, numerous future meetings, and an Easter dance to be held in Springfield.
Officers elected for the year are: John Luthringer, president; George Westen-berger, vice president; Robert Walsh, treasurer; William Stelte, secretary.
10
Little Men Who Weren't
There Wait For Next Year
If anyone doesn’t know what the upperclassmen thought of the Cotillion week - end, he failed to observe the satisfied smiles, the almost superior air of those who had guests.
But how did the frosh feel about the whole thing?
No freshman, of course, got an actual look at the Cotillion proper, but by observing the preliminaries and the consequences, he got an impression.
There was a disgruntled engineer who, perhaps disturbed because of the feminine distractions from studies, ejaculated “Fooey” when asked this survey question.
An unusual commerce man remarked, “I didn’t think anything about it.”
But these were the exceptions. The majority had diversified opinions but they were all summed up in the word, “Whew.”
And the topic of conversation in frosh dining halls, in the dorms and in all meetings was, “Wait until next year. You should see the one I’m going to bring.”—Ted Weber
Nimrod Hines Prepares
For Approaching Season
Arise, ye merry gentlemen of the campus! That honorable personage, Sir Michael Hines, of the Indiana Hines, is sounding his horn and it’s the time for all good hunters to grab their guns and get going. If you are at all interested, the surrounding country will give you plenty of chance to show how good you are.
One of the matters on tap right now is to see if there is enough interest on the campus to organize a club for purposes of hunting and trapshooting. If you are interested in this, or if you have any ideas on the subject, step over to the first floor of Alumni and talk to Mike. Once you get in the room, you’ll see’ it adorned with so much evidence of a real hunting enthusiast that you won’t have any trouble at all in getting your topic of conversation started. Mike is ready for a good bull-session any time, but you’d better be careful about the statements that you make, or he’ll call you on what you say. He’s been hunting since he was six years old (in fact, even before he started to school), and at one time, when he was in high school, he had acquired 21 hunting dogs (by raising, buying, or trading).
Now don’t get too enthusiastic and start out on the trail until we have a chance to finish. Above all, don’t do any hunting on Notre Dame property. This is a game preserve. Probably the best
ATTENTION: CLUB OFFICERS
All campus clubs and organizations are requested by the Student Council to report the names of their officers to Don McNally, 216 Alumni before Nov. 15. Failure to do so will mean the club will not be officially recognized by the Council and will not be able to meet on the campus.
place is in the ravine back of St. Marys. (Mike insists that he’s been back there a lot and has had much more luck than he ever did at St. Mary’s. Well, maybe he didn’t always have the right anununi-tion.)
As for just what you can hunt, here is a list, complete with the daily limit (in parentheses)), and the season.
Pheasants (2)—Nov. 10-19 (1 cock, 1 hen each day).
Quail (10)—Nov. 10-30.
Rabbits (10)—Nov. 10-Jan. 5.
Ducks (10)—Oct. 23—for 60 days.
Geese (10)—Oct. 23—for 60 days.
And if you do happen to bag a few birds or bunnies, the Caf will prepare them for you free of charge.
So that’s that on the hunting scene. Just go see the Kewanna Kid if you want any further information. He’d rather hunt than do anything else, and his ambition is to raise bird-dogs (though strictly as a hobby). The geese have begun heading South in their “V for Victory” so there’s no time to lose.
Events of Week-End
Crowd Cotillion Guests
As if to perfect the evening, stars came out over the Notre Dame campus last Friday night. Sophomore Cotilliongoers hurried from one exciting event to another.
They cheered and laughed and sang with the mob at the pep rally, then stood in Dillon court to listen appreciatively while a spotlighted Glee Club “sang her glory and sounded her fame.” Finally, they all arrived somehow at the dance itself—walked up broad stairs walled with blue and gold into the half-darkness of the Palais ballroom.
There, Jimmy Joy was “jus’ plain mellow,” as one little Kentucky girl put it. The band moved from swing to conga to rhumba and back to swing, featuring two very good vocalists, and threw in several amusing novelty numbers. Favors were gold pencils, and the decoration idea: deep purple. The last bit of Joy’s theme died out, and then came the usual last minute frenzy at the check windows and the usual frantic waiting for cabs.
Next day there was sun, a wild foot
ball game, and a crowded victory dance.
Then late Sunday and after, the grey set in.—Charles J. Patterson
Student Night Owls Hoot Over Time Shift
Last Sunday at 2 a.m. a few hoarse cheers could be heard in every hall—not for the football team but for the South Bend City Council, which had voted that the city should return to Central Standard Time at that hour. Confusion in schedules between the campus and town has thus been eliminated, and night owls will no longer have cause to hoot over their “midnights” being shortened 45 minutes.
The few complications that arise now, though, are nothing to the time problem that faced people prior to 1883. Then every city and town in the country had its own particular time, depending on when the sun rose and set. This arrangement, however, was obviously a barrier to travel, and so the government solved the problem somewhat by dividing the country into four zones—Eastern, Central, Mountain and Pacific—each with its own time.
People gave up what they had called “God’s time” for the adjustment, and didn’t even murmur when someone thought up the “Daylight Dilemma.”
The first big argument arose just five years ago when Chicago officials advocated a union between New York time and their own for commercial reasons. This meant the “Windy City” would be on Daylight Saving Time the year ’round. But Chicagoans didn’t like the idea of saving daylight where there was no daylight to be saved, and, with the city the railroad center of the west, too many executives were going berserk trying to arrange new schedules. So, with the measure generally unpopular, city officials looked ahead to the next elections and forgot about it.
Had that measure been passed, South Bend would probably have followed Chicago and instituted Daylight Saving Time for the entire year—which, of course, would have brought our local owls home at 11:15.—Daniel Doivney
Monogram Initiation
Hercules Bereolos, president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, announced this week that another ritual will be held for candidates to the Monogram Club some time in February after the football letters have been awarded.
All other candidates not accepted during the October initiation together with those winning major monograms in football this fall will be initiated at that time.
11
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Bill Welch
When he was 11 years old, Stan Litiz-zette started out as the drum major for Notre Dame, and he has held the same
s.
ity.
LITIZZETTE
So, although
post through the years. His first contact with Notre Dame was in Junior high school in his home town of Helper, Utah, where.he attended the Notre Dame Junior High school, conducted by the Sisters of Char-the location of the
school has changed, he has retained his position, leading a Notre Dame Band.
Leading a band may look like a pretty soft job, but it requires a lot of practice. As for twirling a baton, Stan declares that once you have mastered it, the touch always remains. Stan began his Notre Dame University career four years ago when he led the band for the first time at the Notre Dame-Minnesota game. Since then, clad in his white and gold uniform he has marched in front of the 100 piece Irish band in the stadia in New York, Evanston, and other large cities. In his sophomore year he went on the Eastern tour with the concert band.
As the band practices an average of six hours a week, that doesn’t leave too much time for other activities, but he has managed to put in time at his favorite pastime, debating, and is serving this year as chairman of interhall forensic activities. In his freshman year he won the Breen Oratorical contest, and since then he has been a member of the Wranglers. As a politics major in the College of Arts and Letters, he is president of the Academy of Politics. And, if the draft board doesn’t beat him to the punch, after he registers, he hopes to go through Law School.
Baseball is his main sports dish, and he plays frequently during the summer when he isn’t working at his father’s drug store, dishing out “awful-awfuls” and cokes.
Irish Dig Deep Down For Charity's Sake
“What do they do with all that money, anyway?”
That’s the question many fellows ask when the treasurer’s annual report of the local Conference of St. Vincent de Paul is published. It’s a fair question too, because the records show that the charity of Notre Dame men has always
12
prompted a generous answer to the requests of the Society for donations and financial assistance.
It has become almost a tradition among campus organizations to contribute part of the profits from especially successful enterprises to the Vincentian charities. This money is appropriated by the Society as worthy cases present themselves.
Following its recent well-attended Victory Dance, the Commerce Forum presented the Society with $15. A few days later the attention of the Vincentians was called to the case of an individual, crippled by paralysis, who was badly in need of a wheel chair. With the cooperation of a South Bend dealer, the Forum’s donation was converted to this purpose. The Society does not have to look far to find worthy outlets for contributions received, and is deeply grateful for these benefactions.
The Conference’s regular work, of course, goes on as usual. Members are making periodic visits to St. Joseph’s and Epworth hospitals. They are cooperating with surrounding parishes, giving assistance in child case work as well as in family welfare work. Visits to Healthwin Sanatorium are also being planned.
One of the regular sources of income for the Society is the commission re- . ceived from the sales of Airline tickets. Tickets to all points may be obtained quickly and easily at the Vincentian office in Lyons’ sub at standard rates. Men planning to fly home over any of the holidays can save time and trouble by dropping in and making arrangements with Bob Kehoe, secretary, any weekday afternoon from 3:00 to 5:00. Reservations should, however, be made at least ten days in advance.—Jack Bennett
Students From Northwest Organize 54-40 Club
Do you recall where you have heard 54-40 before? Right, it was in that class when you were studying U. S. history. If you still fail to see the light, then ask your neighbor; maybe he can assist you.
However, the 54-40 club is a new organization here on the campus and judging from the first meeting, it should develop into quite a club. At this first meeting, there were 24 members present but 11 more will soon join the ranks, thereby bringing the total to 35 members. The officers who were elected are as follows: Ben Cutlip, president; Ken Kirby, vice president; Vince Hogan, secretary; and Walt Buckman, treasurer. The assembly resolved to send invitations to all students here from Alaska to join the club. The territory covered by this club will include Oregon, Wash
ington, Idaho, and Alaska. Besides this, they also planned a communion breakfast for the morning of the Southern California football game. All through the year, their aim will be to establish friendly relations among the boys and to entertain visiting westerners.
The club was very fortunate in securing as its chaplain, Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., assistant director of studies here at the University, and a former Oregonian himself. Also at the initial meeting was Mr. McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, who advised the group in their organization.—Frank Sieranoski
K. of C Membership Drive Gets Under Way
Delayed for one reason or another, the Knights of Columbus Membership Committee under Chairman Bob Raaf got under way this week in their drive to make this year the most successful one in the history of the Council.
Although few students outside of the Council are aware of it, the Notre Dame Council must initiate more than 100 students each year in order to maintain its financial and social obligations. The reason for this is that every year, an equal number of members graduate or transfer to other councils and as the activities of the council are necessarily planned on a basis of a certain number of members, a decrease in that amount would prove disastrous to the present program. This year, the burden is even greater because the members voted to cancel all dues of those members in United States military service under the rank of corporal.
Membership in the Knights of Columbus is open to a practicing Catholic over the age of 18 who is able to pass the requirements of the Council. Former members of the campus council have become leaders in business, civic, and fraternal life in all the 48 states.
Chairman Raaf lives at 320 Walsh Hall, and either he or any other member of the Notre Dame Council will be glad to explain the working of the Council to any interested student.
Art Exhibition Here, Nov. I
The first local art exhibition of the year will be held Nov. 1 in the University Library when a six-man show of campus and South Bend artists gets under way. The affair will be part of National Art Week which starts on the same date, continuing to Nov. 7.
Local observance of National Art Week will begin with a tea to be held by local painters at 2 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 2, in the library.
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
Herk Bereolos
His name is not misleading, that of this sturdy, rugged Greek, for there is more than slight resemblance between the physique of Hercules Bereolos of Coach Leahy’s football forces and that of the ancient mythical Grecian figure.
Herky received his football prepping under Coach Karl Huffine at Hammond High school, Hammond, Ind. It was here that the stocky lad achieved great heights as a member of the Wildcat squads from 1934 -1937, but the greatest of his individual honors came in his senior year, as a member of the team that won the state championship trophy. Bereolos was named on the Indiana allstate team at the conclusion of this season.
Traveling was no novelty to Bereolos by the time he enrolled at Notre Dame, since his high school team made a habit o f scheduling intersectional contests. During his senior year at Hammond High, Herky played in two such contests — one at Newcastle, Pa., and the other in Montgomery, Ala. The latter- concluded an undefeated season for the eleven.
Although football occupied most of his time, Herk found time to make a name for himself on the cinders as well as on the gridiron. In his senior year the youth put the shot on the prep state
championship squad, a spot which teammate Wally Ziemba shared with him, as they share- it now on the Irish track squad.
Bereolos started his football career in high school as a guard and was noted for his remarkable speed for a man carrying 205 pounds. He won his monogram last year as an understudy to Johnny Gubanich, but was included in Coach Leahy’s experimentations and now performs at the right tackle post.
Herky has always been known as the life of the party on football excursions, and when this gridiron gladiator is along, members of the team and coach
ing staff can be assured that there will
never be a dull moment. The story is told by fellow teammates about his translating experiences on the recent Carnegie Tech trip. The Notre Dame boys lodged at St. Vincents’ near Pittsburgh Friday night, and several of them went with Bereolos into the Greek-operated candy store. Both Herky and the owner professed to speak the same language, but the owner couldn’t make out what the youth was saying. “The Greek”
has taken much ribbing from teammates since that trip.
The Physical Education school claims all of Herky’s academic interests, as he tries to qualify for a coaching job upon graduation in June. Until that time, however, Coach Leahy and Coach Mahoney will occupy most of his extracurricular activities in attempts to bolster their respective squads.
Bob Maddock
The left guard post on Coach Leahy’s charges this fall is manned by a gridder who has worked his way up from the unknown ranks of the substitutes to one
of the most consistent performers on the squad in the span of three years.
Robert Charles Maddock was virtually hidden by the dearth of other line material in his sophomore year, but gave coaches plenty of reason to believe that they wouldn’t have to worry about a left guard for several years to come. During the last part of the season of 1940 the youth was given his chance and made good in a big way.
Bob prepped in football at Santa Ana high school, Santa Ana, Calif., managed to elude the grasps of coastal universities, and decided to matriculate at midwestern Notre Dame. Teammates of Maddock in high school included Bill and Bob Musick, star halfbacks on the Trojans of U.S.C. this year; Milt Smith, all-coast end at U.C.L.A.; Larry Stumpf, understudy to all-American Rhinehart at California; and Don Warhurst, Cali-foi-nia halfback. Maddock also starred as a shot putter on his high school track team.
Those who come , within hearing distance of Bob’s Walsh Hall room—which he shares with Fullback Chuck McNeil— will have no trouble deciding upon the chief hobby of the pair. A new jive tune will swing out, or the mellowness of a ballad will emerge from the Maddock-McNeill radio-phonograph. Bob points out that between football and academic activities there isn’t much time to do anything else, but collecting records is his favorite hobby.
Bob’s chief occupation during the summer months is keeping in shape by working in California oil-fields until time to report for fall practice. This past summer, however, he added to the beauty of the Stadium by wielding a paint brush over the seats and numbers.
The chief ambition of Bob Maddock, who is claimed by the school of Commerce, is to join Roommate McNeill in setting up a trade business in South America. Both youths are struggling along with plenty of Spanish courses in an attempt to master the language found South of the border.
Needless to say, the gridder’s favorite football trip during his football days at Notre Dame was last year’s excursion to Southern California. It was on this trip that Bob played one of his stellar games of last season, and to top it off he played it before what was for him a “homecoming crowd.”
The Notre Dame line has not been scored on this year. There are seven reasons for this remarkable record. Left Guard Bob Maddock is one of these prominent reasons.
13
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers.....................Managing	Editor Don Heltzel...............................Campus	Editor
William Scanlan............................Promotion	John A. Lynch ..........................Photo	Editor
John Dinges „..........................Eports	Editor Ed Drinkard .........................Staff	Photographer
William Baader ...........................Art	Editor Elmer Silha ...............................Advertising
Robert E. Brooks...............Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
CONGRATULATIONS!
The student body is alive and actively partisan again. Not since the Carnegie Tech game of three years ago have we witnessed such spontaneous support of the team as took place last Saturday. Ignited by the now historic “incident,” the student section reacted in a typical outburst of the “Fighting Irish” spirit long believed to be dormant on the campus.
Fired with this enthusiastic support the team unleashed a furious attack which overwhelmed the stubborn resistance of the Illini. The “blitzkrieg” came to Notre Dame. With it came the revival of an old Notre Dame legend: that every student actually participates in the game—either by playing on the field or by cheering in the stands—so that any action involving a member of the team directly affects the entire student body.
To those cynics who consider last Saturday’s outburst only an evidence of “mob psychology” in its least commendable phase we extend our deepest sympathy. They are not so much cynical as moribund. To deplore such a sincere outburst of feeling as being “ungentlemanly” or “boorish” is to ignore the very core of manhood. We have never considered it unmanly to support friends and join with them in fighting , for a common cause. Certainly, the fortress of freedom would soon be untenable if its defenders were drawn only from the pallid ranks of the staid, the conservative, and the dull.
We whole-heartedly endorse this return of “spirit” to the campus. Notre Dame has always fought for her own sons, and we hope that tradition will be upheld even more strongly in the future. In this maddest of all worlds loyalty and comradeship are the last refuges of sanity.
•
GOOD LUCK, MR. BARRY
Printer’s ink never quite leaves a newspaperman’s veins, it is said, and proof is found in the return of Thomas J. Barry, head of the Notre Dame publicity department, business manager of student publications, and professor of Journalism, to the Chicago newspaper scene.
It will be a stirring field to which the veteran journalist goes; many eyes will be focused on the impending battle between die new paper and the famed veteran, the Chicago Tribune. While Mr. Barry’s regional editorship will not in
volve him directly in the anticipated conflicting issues to be upheld by the two papers, he will nevertheless play a vital role in popularizing the venture. His department will handle the semi-local news appealing to the many newspaper readers in the area surrounding Chicago. For, while international news may now hold the headlines, the appeal of proximate events still is nearest to man’s taste and interest.
Mr. Barry has four years of experience in this work and should fit into his new position with competent ease. He is a practical journalist of the Chicago school as some of the anecdotes illustrating his class lectures show.
The loss of his wise guidance of student publications will be felt keenly. Under his direction each year’s Dome and Scholastic have come from the presses with more appeal to the student body. His directions, while they may have occasionally conflicted with youthful editors’ ideas, always proved correct to the satisfaction of all concerned.
His previous service in journalism and the honor bestowed upon him by his alma mater show that Mr. Barry is well qualified for his new responsibility. Notre Dame is sorry to lose’ such a man to the Chicago newspaper readers who will welcome him.
PEP RALLY
Because we expressed our disapproval of the handling of an earlier pep rally we wish now to congratulate those in « charge of last week’s affair for having conducted one of the finest sessions in years. Well-timed and well-paced, the rally was staged in such a way that a smoothly running organization was clearly indicated. There was no let-down from its very inception. Those responsible for this splendid perform- ! ance may truly be proud.	j
•
THE ILLINOIS BAND
Undoubtedly one of the finest college bands in the country, the Illinois band last week added new laurels to its crown. We were even more impressed by the quality of the music played than by the faultlessly executed formations. Their tonal effects were magnificent and showed the perfection which can only be achieved by constant practice. The University of Illinois may well consider itself fortunate in having such a fine organigation as its representative.
14
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
ARMY SPIRIT AND POWER
IS SETTING FOR 1941 BATTLE
By Cadet Thomas P. Furey
Sports Editor, The Pointer
Two years ago there was a cadet with a rather nebulous claim to fame, but one which gave him great distinction among the Corps of Cadets. As a cadet he had seen Army beat Notre Dame, and we treasured him as a precious heirloom, and a visible sign that it was not so long ago that the Irish had tasted defeat at oui* hands. We were determined that he would not graduate before a host of other cadets sprang up to take his place. But Alas! the Academic Department and .the Irish football team were not so cooperative that year, and he departed heirless.
Of all the games that Army plays each year, and any year, there is none that the cadets want to win so badly, and I include Navy, as that yearly clash with the Ramblers. That is the ultimate test of a successful season, and the war cry of the Corps when football season rolls around is “Beat Notre Dame!” Where this monumental urge springs from is hard to judge, but part of it comes from
Captain R. P. Murphy
the preponderance of defeats that the Army has suffered at the hands of Notre Dame in the years since they played that first memorable game in 1913, and defeat is never sweet. But predominantly, I believe, this feeling exists because Notre Dame is a traditional and time-honored rival, because Notre Dame teams have always represented the finest in football, and a victory over Notre Dame is one of the greatest of football victories.
But the main thing is that an overwhelming desire to win exists in a degree not evidenced in other games. Witness last year, when Army went down 48-0 against Penn, but fought like demons against the Irish. This year we have virtually the same team, except for the loss of several regulars, and the acquisition of but two yearlings who have seen any action at all this season. The advent of Coach Earl “Red” Blaik and his coaching staff on to the West Point scene has, however, completely changed the complexion of things football around here. There is a new zip and dash in the team, and their improvement in every department has been little short of remarkable.
This has been especially noticeable in the backfield. Hank Mazur has always been our outstanding back, and this year he looks better than ever. Jere Maupin, however, never fulfilled the high expectations that his plebe year performance indicated until this year. He was afflicted with nervousness and tenseness, and was prone to fumbling. In the first three games of this season he has shown himself a highly capable triple threat, and with Mazur and Johnnie Hatch, is part of a trio of smooth working backs, each proficient in passing, kicking, and running. Herschel Jarrel and John Roberts alternate as blocking backs, each about equally capable and dependable. Ralph Hill is the only yearling in the backfield, and is giving great promise. He is a substitute for Maupin at the wingback position, and in the Yale game gave a beautiful exhibition of broken field running in scoring a 58 yard touchdown. Roy Johnson, and Ted Lutrykowski, who kicks the point after, are two fast but light backs who will probably see action Sat
urday, but who are too light to do too much playing. In fact, the whole backfield is light, only Roberts scaling over 180 lbs., but they are in the pink of condition, untouched by injuries as yet, experienced, and confident.
For ends there are a trio of fast, rangy, 180 pounders in Tom Farrel, Jim Kelleher, and George Seip, all of whom
Hank Mazur have played exceptionally well so far. Jim White and Robin Olds are a pair of 195 lb. guards, and Captain Ray Murphy and Ted Michel at 186 and 198 lbs. respectively bolster the center of the line. Bob Evans, the 181 lb. center, has been playing a bang-up game all season and was particularly outstanding in the Yale game. Replacements in the line are not too numerous or too good, but they tend to greater massiveness and ruggedness and should see us through the game all right.
Both on offense and defense Army has been improving by leaps and bounds since the season started, and we hope to be at our peak for the Notre Dame game. But of one thing you may be sure; when that Army team jogs on to the field at Yankee Stadium, it’s going to be the fightingest team that Notre Dame will face all season. With what we have seen of them so far, and remembering the great fight they put up against the Irish last year, we feel our turn has come. But win, lose, or draw Saturday, we are looking forward here at West Point to another renewal of hostilities with our favorite foe and friendliest enemy, Notre Dame.
15
LEAHY'S LADS FACE SERVICE SCHOOLS TO OPEN TOUGHER HALF OF SCHEDULE
lies in store in the way of Irish football, for the 600 faithful who will make the student trip to Baltimore for the Navy game, a week hence.
Navy Backs and Line Breed Trouble For Irish Warriors.
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, a band of gridiron warriors who thus far this season have trampled over each opponent, enter the more grueling half of their schedule with an invasion of the East tomorrow, where lying in ambush are—the Army Mule and the Navy Goat—the nation’s first lines of defense. With big guns cocked and destroyers primed, they are ready to sink the Irish both on land and sea. Thoroughly warned by scouts of the impending danger he is leading his boys into, HeadMan Frank Leahy plans to hurl the Irish Expeditionary Forces against the Army first, leaving the Navy incident to be settled a week later.
Since the Army picture is being considered elsewhere, it is left to this column to expose the inside information concerning the impending skirmish between the Irish and the Navy.
Under Major “Swede” Larson, who has been guiding Navy’s football destinies for the past three years, the Tars have this season risen to unprecedented heights on the gridiron, and bid fair to upset the Irish applecart when the two teams clash at the Baltimore Stadium, next Saturday, Nov. 8.
Middies Outnumber Irish
Blessed with a wealth of material,
Bill Busik
which saw 30 of last year’s 42 lettermen on deck for action this fall, Coach Larson generated a powerhouse which rolled to four straight victories before it struck a snag in a 0-0 tie with Harvard last Saturday, for the day’s biggest upset. However, even though it lost some of its prestige in this, the Navy is still to be regarded as a formidable foe and a worthy opponent for any team.
Coach Larson’s big problem at the beginning of the season (a problem, in which incidentally, any coach would delight) was in assimilating a first team from a squad four deep in every position. From that crew he emerged with a line, which, playing the major portion of each game, has yielded but one scant safety to five opponents. The backs, behind this forward wall, have roared to 129 points in a like number of games.
Watch Busik
Spearhead of the attack is triple-threater, Bill Busik, truly the answer to a coach’s prayer. Operating at the lefthalfback post this boy can rim, pass, and kick with the best of them. Rounding out the “first-string” backfield are, quarterback and blocker, Bill Chip; Sammy Boothe, a left-handed passer, at righthalf; and Alan Cameron, a powerfulplunging fullback. Behind these boys, but on an equal par, are such proven stars as, Sherwood Werner, Phil Hurt, Phil Gutting, Joe Hunt, Howie Clark, Wes Gebert, and Johnny Hebron.
"Super-line"
Paving the way for these lads is a line that averages close to 200 pounds from end to end. Reading from left to right are, Bob Froude, captain of the Navy team; Gene Flathman, 250 pounds of bone and muscle; Vito Vitucci, 5:8, 200 pounds of steel; Jim Donaldson, John Hill, Bill Chewning, and Willis Maxson.
Irish Plot Navy Downfall
Over in the Irish camp, spirit is running high following the 49-14 drubbing of Illinois last Saturday, in which the boys proved that they could come from behind. However, in keeping with the Leahy tradition of taking each game as it comes, the Army is the big topic of conversation on the practice field these days, with the Navy coming under the heading of next week’s business. Nevertheless, presupposing a successful weathering of the Army assault tomorrow, let’s look into the future and see what
Capt. Bob Froude
Boasting no such manpower as the Navy can muster, the Irish nonetheless have a first team, with a set of reserves, that can more than hold its own against any outfit in the country. In “Accurate” Angelo Bertelli, who to date has flipped 37 completed passes in 62 attempts, for 571 yards and a .597 average, they possess a passer second to none in the ranks of collegiate football. Steve Juzwik and “Dippy” Evans, two of the most powerful runners on any college gridiron today, lead the Irish scoring parade with 44 and 43 points respectively. Harry “The Horse” Wright, a devastating blocker and a smart signal-caller, rounds out the first string backfield.
The forward wall of, Bob Dove, Jim Brutz, Bob Maddock, Wally Ziemba, Bernie Crimmins, Capt. Paul Lillis, and George Murphy, have all done yeoman work this year and can boast the enviable record of not having yielded a single score in five games. Three of the touchdowns against the Irish having been scored through the air, and the other on a wide end run.
All in all, should Notre Dame get by in its clash with Army tomorrow, and Navy survive its test against Penn, the impending struggle between the Irish and the Sailors a week hence, should be the most interesting in the long series to date, and by far the outstanding gridiron attraction of the day.
—James A. Clemens
16
ZAHM, DILLON, BADIN AND WALSH STILL LEAD INTERHALL LEAGUES
rissey Hall chalked up its first league win Sunday, 7-0, when Casey scored the touchdown and extra point in the fourth quarter to down Carroll.
Last Sunday marked the second date on the Interhall Football schedule. In deference to the Sophomores, Dr. Handy moved the Lyons-Badin game to the morning round, with Dillon and St. Ed’s playing in the afternoon. This gave the fluttery sophs time to “show her around our campus.”
LEAGUE I
Dillon and Zahm emerged from the second week’s play as the potential strong men of the league, both recording impressive second victories.
Dillon, 32; St. Edward's, 0
In a dramatic display of unchecked power, Dillon’s team, led by their talented backs Campagna and Cramer, swept over a fighting St. Ed’s team for their second victory of the season, 32 to 0. Cramer scored three times and converted twice, while teammate Campagna went over once, passed for another and set up two more with his amazing passing and running.
Dillon took the lead early in the first quarter on their first offensive play. Joe Campagna threw a long pass to Bill Johnson who went over standing up.
In the second period Cramer hung up an additional six points, failing to convert the extra point. The half ended a few minutes later with Dillon holding a 12-0 lead.
Brownson, 14-6 on a safety, and two touchdowns.
Brownson’s play was not quite up to the standard of the previous week as Zahm seemed to gain at will through the opposition’s forward wall. Chuck Turvey showed the best promise of any of the Brownson boys by backing up the line with the skill of Bronko Nagurski.
Bill Murphy was credited with both of the winners’ touchdowns, one coming in the second period after a sustained march had put the ball in scoring position. The other was the result of an intercepted pass by Maloney, who ran it back to the eight yard line. Zahm took an early lead in the first quarter when the whole forward wall surged upon Gorman as he tried to punt from his end zone for Brownson. The ball was blocked and went beyond the end zone for an automatic safety.
The most spectacular play of the day, however, was featured by Don Finelli of the losers who ran back a kickoff in the last quarter for 70 yards and a touchdown. He was never touched by a Zahm player and completely outran the whole team. It was Finelli’s running and Turvey’s defensive play which kept the Brownson team in the game.
Morrissey, 7; Carroll, 0
Showing ability to outplay its rival when the going was the toughest, Mor-
Carroll found itself in scoring position with only four minutes of the game elapsed, when Metzger blocked a Morrissey kick on the four yard line. However, Carroll found it impossible to penetrate the Morrissey defense and lost its chance to score.
The winning touchdown came after a Carroll punt into the wind sailed only 15 yards from the end zone. The Morrissey eleven in two line bucks cashed in on the opportunity. It was Casey who did most of the driving for the winners, while Metzger sparked the Carroll squad on both offense and defense.
LEAGUE II
Walsh, 27; Breen-Phillips, 0
Walsh continued to show its power, shellacking Breen - Phillips, 27-0. This was the second time in their two games that the “Gentlemen” have crushed a game freshman eleven under a four-touchdown assault. Equally as remarkable as this offense has been the defensive play of their line. It is seldom that the secondary is called on to stop an opposing back.
The first quarter resolved into a punting duel, after Breen-Phillips had kicked off. Walsh gained steadily, however, and near the end of the period found themselves on their opponent’s 40. From here Vince Daigler slashed off tackle, running to the one. From this point Bernie Mc-
(Continued on page 22)
The half-time rest apparently helped St. Ed’s, for they succeeded in holding Dillon scoreless in the third period. But the storm broke over St. Ed’s in the fourth stanza; Joe Campagna led off with a remarkable exhibition of broken field running, battled through at least six men for a touchdown. Cramer converted. The last two touchdowns came in rapid succession. A costly St. Ed’s fumble resulted in Dillon gaining possession of the ball. From this point, Cramer and Campagna alternated in lugging the pigskin, with Cramer finally going over.
The final Dillon tally came with Cramer going over after* a brilliant one-man offensive featuring Joe Campagna. A desperate St. Ed’s passing attack failed and the game ended with Dillon on top, 32-0.
Zahm, 14; Brownson, 6
Zahm Hall established itself as one of the contending teams in the interhall competition last Sunday when it beat
. . . . Now how did he ever get over there. . . . ?
17
Cross Countrymen Will
Race at Loyola Tomorrow
Led by Tony Maloney, who.finished first 300 yards ahead of Duane Zeniper, captain of Michigan Normal, the N. D. harriers won a dual cross-country meet last Saturday from the home team at Ypsilanti, Mich., 22-33.
Frank Conforti, Walt Barry and Walt Brehmer all of N. D. finished third, fourth, and fifth respectively, with Bob Reilly, another wearer of the Gold and Blue coming in ninth. Ollie Hunter was forced to drop out of the race because of a “stitch.”
Pleasing to Coach Bill Mahoney was the fact that his boys were in fair condition, although they had poor weather in which to practise. Mr. Mahoney expressed satisfaction with the sophomores Reilly, Brehmer and Barry, who are all improving rapidly.
Tomorrow the team will travel to Chicago where it will take part in the Loyola Invitational Meet. All schools
Well-dressed college men
$£.50 . $5-50
Custom and Normal Treds, $7.50

Ask tbe taltt-man to tell you why Douglas "Down-to-tbe-Wood— Up-to-tbe-Arch'’construction assures perfect fit and comfort

210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
in the Mid-West, including Big Ten outfits, that have fairly good cross-country teams will be represented.
“Our chances look okay,” said Mr. Mahoney when questioned. “I figure Purdue, Illinois and Wisconsin are the teams to beat.”
Frosh Net Meet Washed Out
A double dose of Indiana weather coupled with a sizable portion of inactivity, when the sun did shine, has necessitated definite cancellation of the annual fall Freshman tennis tournament and the warning that the upper-classmen tournament had better speed up, or else—.
Mr. Walter Langford, amiable tennis coach, announced, “We shall probably have to wait until the spring tournaments to obtain a definite idea on the personnel and caliber of the varsity and frosh teams.” At the present, the outlook for next year’s varsity tennis squad looks exceptionally bright. With the re-(Continued on page 20)


know that the new fall styles by Douglas are ''tops”. Featuring up-to-the-minute designs in snappy blacks and mellow, military tans, they’re easy on the eyes, the feet and the pocketbook. Come in today and try on your choice of one hundred good-looking styles. See for yourself why Douglas Shoes are America’s leaders in style and value.
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
By Red Lonergan
Few fans who Saturday after Saturday sit in the stands thrilled by the play of their favorite team realize the sweeping changes and the evolution which has occurred in this game. From 1869, when Rutgers beat Princeton 6-4 in the nation’s initial football game, till the present day there has been a steady increase in the style and regulations of the game.
In 1876 Harvard, Yale, Columbia, and Princeton, met to make up the first rules for the game they called Rugby. By 1882 the offensive team was able to hold possession of the ball only if it could gain a certain number of yards in four downs. During this year signal calling came into being with an eleven-man team instead of the usual 15. Two years later the wedge play, credited to both Lehigh and Princeton, was introduced. It was during the same season that the ball carrier was given personal blockers, an outgrowth of the Flying Wedge and a gift from Heaven to the ball carriers of those days. In 1890 Pudge Heffel-finger tried pulling out and acting as the spearhead of the backfield interference.
In 1910 Pop Warner introduced the single and double wingback along with the backfield reverse. The next year the forward pass could be used for any distance. This made it a real offensive weapon and Rockne helped make it famous. In 1922 Rockne began his practice of using his second team to start a game. In 1926 it was decreed that there be a pause of one second before the center pass in an attempt to stop the N.D. shift. From 1928 to 1933 the football czars passed rules to eliminate the causes of the then outstanding serious injuries. Since then there have been rules only in favor of what should be right. Ponderous weight and numbers have given way to brains, speed, and precision and the game has been given to the people in the stands.
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	Lew Costa of Georgia has scored over 30 points this season without playing a minute. Why and how?
2.	Give the correct names of the colleges bearing these names.
a)	The Crimson Wave.
b)	The Tarheels.
3.	Who are the men generally considered to be the greatest quarterback of all time? (three).
4.	Who introduced the Flying Wedge?
5.	What is the longest drop-kick on record ?
6.	Who is credited with first instigating football or Rugby?
(Answers on page 23)
18
You've Waited for This
MUSIC
"Concerto No. 1 in B-flat Minor"
AUmm $4.73
HOROWITZ & TOSCANINI and the NBC Symphony Orchestra in the gem album of the year — hear these two great men of music together in the thrilling "Mary Astor Concerto" that fired the musical imagination of moviegoers in "The Great Lie" — now on records with the grand combination of artists that you have been waiting for so long . . .
VICTOR AND 10 BLUEBIRD RECORDS
Victor Popular Records
“Modern Design” and “When Winter Comes” — Sammy Kaye and his orchestra.
“Skunk Song” (on two sides) — Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra.
“I Don’t Want to Set the World on Fire” and “Don’t Let Julia Fool ’Ya” — Skinnay Ennis and his orchestra.
“Everything’s Been Done Before”* and “It Must Be True” — Art Jarrett and his orchestra. (*His theme song.).
/CCCP’N JI LINTFI J
FROM THE PREJT ECX
BY BILL SCANLAN
MADDOCK DISPLAYS REASON FOR NICKNAME
Guard Bob Maddock informed Illinois why he’s called “Bull” when he displayed the niftiest blocking assignment of the season in front of the Irish bench. . . . He leveled off both Ken Cheeley and John Genis as Steve Juzwik dashed around left end. . . . Steve gained two yards. . . . Self-appointed cheerleader is Galloping John Druze, the end coach. . . . Keith O’Rourke, the giraffe-legged high jumper and assistant to Trainer Scrap Young, got his chance Saturday when the latter was busy on the sidelines. ... It was O’Rourke’s first waterbucket performance—and before 45,000 people.
FATHER O’DONNELL ACQUAINTED WITH ARMY
Tomorrow’s Army game marks an important anniversary for Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University. . . . In 1915 only 11 men played for the Irish, including a center named O’Donnell, now our Father O’Donnell. . . . Kelly went in for Crowley of Zahm hall in Sunday’s Interhall loop game—because the Zahm team couldn’t find a helmet to fit Crowley. . . . The Texas ranger found one a few minutes later, entered the game, and dashed 11 yards to score in the Blue’s 14-6 win over Brownson. . . . Major casualty of the game was Zahm Coach John Jaworski, who cracked a tooth cheering.
CAPTAIN POPE MOVES TO GUARD
Art Pope, ambitious basketball captain and forward a year ago, is currently performing at left guard. ... Joe Benda, builder of All-American ends at Notre Dame under Elmer Layden, will coach basketball at St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., this winter. . . . One of the basketball sophs bringing smiles to Coach George Keogan is Johnny Niemiera, forward from Chicago.
ST. MARY’S ENTERS BASKETBALL LOOP
Eyebrows around the Rockne Memorial tilted at a precarious angle the other day when Bob Solze, assistant to Director Tom Mills, admitted that St. Mary’s would be represented in the Interhall basketball circuit—roster includes Notre Dame students who work at the nearby girl’s school. . . . The “Rockettes” batting order includes: Frank Ralph, Vernon Paloch, Jack Desmond, John Sullivan, Bill Randolph, Lea Ritter, Jerry Welch, Charlie Kelly, Dick Shortsleeve, Jim Segnunt, and Les Dillman. . . . The Ilini band set a new high in standards with the intricate shamrock formation.
Bluebird Popular Records
“Miss You” and “Is It Taboo?” — Dinah Shore vocalizing.	•
“You’ll Never Know” and “Your Words and My Music” — Larry Clinton and orchestra, from the show “Lady Be Good.”
“Hiis Time the Dream’s On Me” and “Says Who, Says You, Says I” — Glenn Miller and his orchestra.
nonius /It	V/C//W/ .
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
CELEBRATE BIRTHDAYS SAME DAY
That halfback combination, Angelo Bertelli and Steve Juzwik, celebrate birthdays the same day—June 18. . . . Steve was born in 1918, Bertelli three years later. . . . Angelo’s 11 completions in 21 tries against Illinois sent his season record to 37 successes in 63 tries for 571 yards and a percentage a shade under .600. . . . The “Battle of the Eyes” materialized Saturday when Illinois and N. D. dotted their “I’s” with extra points on nine out of nine attempts.
A “U. N. D.” FOR THE CHEERLEADERS
Those hard-working, extra-curricular attractions at Irish athletic contests, the cheerleaders, deserve a “U.N.D.” for their splendid efforts, especially during the Cotillion weekend. . . . Ted MacDonald and Co., practice an hour each day, and hope to teach “Clashmore Mike” the signals before the Southern California game. . . . Seems Mike crossed a few signals in running around instead of over Human Hurdles Bill Herzog, Paul Toland and Joe Tracey Saturday. . . . Other members of the men in white who supervise cheering are: Dave Curtin, Tony Earley, Joe Sheedy and Bob Galvin.
TIMES SQUARE CHOICE
Notre Dame 30, Army 7.
19
(Continued from page 18) turn of Canale, Parks, Faught, Ford, and Bittner we find a solid basis for a well experienced team. In the - Freshman ranks we find in the already popular Jimmy Evert and Bill Reed, two of the brightest stars ever to enter Notre Dame. Add to these the names of the crop of unknown stars that are bound to spring up and it is not difficult to foresee the Irish as a definite “tennis power” for, at least, the next four years.
—Phil Keen
Tom Walker Is New President of Press Club
Thomas J. Walker of New York City, Alumni hall, and son of Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, is the new president of the Press club. John C. Russell, Lewiston, Maine, junior, is vice-president.
John Kovatch of South Bend, senior right end on the varsity football team, is secretary, while John (Mama) Clark. Cleveland, Ohio, senior and custodian of refreshments for the Notre Dame coun-
You Supply the Head...
LEE supplies the HAT-/-TUDE
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
f * Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Found only at ... .
Rvse s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 V/O6W0 MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
cil of the Knights of Columbus is the treasurer. Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, is faculty adviser.
Plans for the current schoolyear will be made at a meeting next week. According to President Walker, the Press club will consider such activities as publication of the Scholastic for a single issue, keys for club members who have a required number of inches of stories published, the annual banquet, and a placement bureau to help journalists in securing positions.
The club is open to all students majoring in journalism, as well as others associated with the various campus publications. Date of the next meeting will be announced on the various bulletin boards.
The new Press Club president, Walker, is a gradaute of Loyola high school in New York City. He was business manager of the Loyolan, the school’s yearbook which won first place in nationwide participation in the Columbia Scholastic Press Association awards.	'
Let the nearest store that sells LEE Water-Bloc* Hats fit your head into this new semi-telescope— the Bearcroft — with a slightly narrow band and a bound edge brim. Wear it snapped way back. For only 5 Bucks, you’ll be a bearcat in The Bearcroft.
CAN AMERICAN YOUTH collaborate with European Youth?
On What Educational Basis?
Can American Democracy Fail As European Democracies Failed?
Read "THE ALTERNATIVE" by LEON COTNAREANU former publisher of Le Figaro, F’aris
Published by DODD MEAD & COMPANY 432 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.
SEE YOUR BOOKSTORE
“He always comes out this way when he’s got a train to catch!”
Poor Mr. Pinchbottom, we keep telling him and telling him:
THERE’S A TRAIN EVERY HOUR
Guess he thinks it’s too good to be true. But it is true. South Shore trains leave South Bend for Chicago every hour all day long — speedy trains that whisk you right into the “Loop.” . . . Hourly service back from Chicago, too!
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
20
Officiating at Illinois Game Evokes "Comment"
The editors of the SCHOLASTIC were quick to seize the opportunity of taking the concensus of student opinion concerning the officiating at last Saturday’s football game. This reporter was given the task of interviewing twenty students and of obtaining their opinions. Such opinions were not difficult to evoke, as will be seen later on. The gen-
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
BRUGGNER'S CIGAR STORE IIO N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Chal-lenging higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value. WM. DEMUTH 4 CO., N.Y.
HEHOII GUARD
miiflno
eral feeling was one of disgust for the refereeing. Every hall is represented, and the Off-Campus boys had their say This was the result of the interviewing:
William H. Stricker, Off-Campus: “The officials were in there trying to call them the way they saw them. If they missed one or two bad ones, it was because they did not see them.”
John F. Stauber, Alumni Hall: “The officiating in the game last Saturday was, although not the most inefficient, at least the most unintelligible that I have ever witnessed.”
Lorenzo Cutlip, Walsh Hall: “The referees were confused. They could not have been experienced in such a job.”
Leo Blatz, Sorin Hall: “The refereeing was rather poor, in spite of the fact that several situations arose which made it more difficult than usual.”
Frank Pollnow, Alumni: “There was room for improvement in their rules and eyesight.”
H. C. Adams, “The refereeing was spotty and unequal.”
Bill Reynolds, Howard: “The field judge and head linesman seemed to be efficient, but not the umpire and referee.”
Larry Gilhooly, St. Edwards: “The officiating was very poor. The officials hesitated at all times in calling decisions. They conferred constantly on penalties, and took much of the interest from an otherwise exciting game.”
Joe Mannion, Dillon: “The officiating was fai’ below par. It was the most incompetent piece of work I have - ever seen.”
Bill Mulligan, Carroll: “The conflicting decision over the first down on the one-yard line was the acme of their blunders.”
Joseph Gall, Off-Campus: “The officiating at Saturday’s game left a lot to be desired.”
George Reese, Lyons: “Although the refereeing looked a bit shady at first, it was cleared up after reading the rules.”
Frank Vignola, Morrissey: “They called them as they saw them.”
Kelly Cook, Morrissey: “Amusing but confusing.”
Don Seuffert, Morrissey: “Each side was not given the same breaks.”
Tom Fry, Carroll: “The fans’ misunderstood the confusion caused by the officials’ disagreement.”
Frank McManus, Brownson: “It was below standard to the extent that it was a farce.”
Bob Ullrich, Brownson: “Our team had to beat fifteen men.”
Bob Chapman, Cavanaugh: “The game was so rough that it made difficult officiating, and made the referees look bad.”—Frank Sierawaski
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
21
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
(Continued from page 17)
Kay promptly hit center for the first touchdown. Fitzgerald was called on for the kick and came through, making it 7-0.
Early in the second period Walsh again found themselves near the midfield stripe, and again Daigler ran. This time it was a smoothly executed triplereverse, Daigler going unmolested for the touchdown. Again Fitzgerald converted.
Here Breen - Phillips interposed its only threat by intercepting a Walsh pass and running it back to the 15 yard line where the last Walsh man, “Moose” Farrell, made the tackle. The threat was soon over, as the “Gentlemen” held firmly.
After the intermission, Breen-Phillips took to the air, but McKay scored his second touchdown by intercepting a flat zone pass in midfield, and racing for six more points. For the third time, Fitzgerald converted.
In the fourth period, Walsh added its final score, “Mama” Clark and Jess DeLois alternating at hitting the line, with Clark going over from the five. The attempted conversion was blocked.
Cavanaugh, 7; Howard, 0
Cavanaugh’s hard fighting team won a 7-0 victory at the expense of ill-fated Howard. Both teams played scoreless ball for three periods, Howard often penetrating deep into their opponent’s territory, but failing to push the ball over.
In the last quarter,' Howard fumbled on its own two-yard line, Cavanaugh recovering. Howard held at the goalline for four downs. Figuring to punt out of danger, Howard once more fumbled, this time in the end zone, and once again Cavanaugh recovered for the lone touchdown of the game. The conversion made it 7-0. Howard received the kickoff, and by means of their fine passing attack again penetrated Cavanaugh’s territory, but the gun ended the game.
The Howard line, led by Capt. Lewis and Cooney, played a fine brand of football; passes were clicking, but their running game was weak. The Cavanaugh line seemed much improved over last week.
Badin, 18; Lyons, 7
Badin’s scarlet clad eleven took to the - air, passing Lyons into defeat, 18-7, in its second game of the season. The vic
tors had a firm hold on the battle all the way but the Lyons aggregation succumbed gallantly.
Badin scored midway in the first half, with Rousseau tallying from the five-yard line. Passing power was the force that moved the Badin eleven down the field. Late in the second quarter a sleeper play worked to perfection; Rousseau passing to Murphy, who plunged through the Lyons secondary for the score.
Both teams tackled and blocked well. Wide end runs and line plunges gained little for either team, both teams making their distance via the air, despite the brisk wind that hampered the passing.
Leading 12-0 at the half the Badin squad clinched the game in the third period when Rousseau climaxed a long drive with a plunge that was good for a touchdown. The try for extra point was no good. In the closing minutes of play, Smith of the Lyons team caught a pass in the flat and ran for a touchdown. Lyons passed for the only extra point of the day. Smith was the star for the losers, his charging being a constant danger to the Badin squad.
Lost—Slide Rule and Thermodynamics Book, Reward to finder. See Bill Herzog, 434 Howard.
You’ll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola just as often and as surely as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of genuine goodness. Ice-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment, buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
1107 Beyer Avenue
You trust its quality
22
St. Louis Club To Lead
Soccer Teams into Action
Somewhat baffled by the unfavorable weather conditions, the campus soccer players are nevertheless pointing toward the first games, which should begin this week-end. The Phy-Ed department is whipping up several formidable teams, especially among the freshman halls, and the rivalry among these halls should produce an interesting-collection of tussles. Mr. Scannell will still welcome into the league any soccer team which is formed on the campus.
As an added incentive, the St. Louis club is still straining at the leash to take on any group which accepts its challenge, which reads thus: Any team that plays them pays one dollar. In return the visiting team, if victorious, receives five dollars from the St. Louis club. A Phy-Ed team on the fourth floor of Walsh is already in the running. The club will battle all comers. With potential financial gains in the wind, the local shylocks should rise in arms and provide some rugged opposition to the soccer domination of the St. Louis club.
Notre Dame Swimming Team
Since early in the school year, a group on the campus has been quietly endeavoring to form a Notre Dame swimming team.
Partisans of this move would like to see swimming adopted on a strictly formal basis which would mean hiring a competent coach, presentation of awards, and drawing up a definite schedule of meets.
There are those, on the other hand, who do not think it prudent to add to the program of intercollegiate athletics at Notre Dame.
Their objections to the formation of a swimming team can be generally summarized under three points.
(1)	It must be kept in mind that there are limitations at Notre Dame, as there . are at every other university, as to the
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
number of sports which could conveniently be carried out in an intercollegiate program.
(2)	There should be a period of years in which any sport is carried on informally before it should merit consideration for adoption on a formal basis. It has been the experience here in the past that one generation of students may be enthusiastic for a given sport and competent to carry it on, and a succeeding generation may be lethargic towards the same sport and short of the necessary talent for outside competition.
No Cramming Necessary! For swell flavor and real chewing fun-the answer is delicious
Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum |


(3)	In the past, the Rockne Memorial, which houses the swimming pool, has excluded all varsity teams of any nature whatsoever and there would be a natural reluctancy to terminate this policy.
ANSWERS TO SPORTS QUIZ
1.	He kicks all of the extra points after touchdown. The clock is stopped during the try for an extra point.
2.	a) Alabama; b) North Carolina.
3.	Daly of Harvard and Army, Walter Ecker-soll of Chicago, and Carideo of Notre Dame.
4.	Lehigh and Princeton.
5-	The longest drop-kick was sixty-three yards by Mark Payne of Dakota Wesleyan.
6.	The Romans, who brought it to England where it was developed.

23