The
Commonweal
A Weekly Journal of Opinion Edited by Catholic Laymen.
Ik
Recent Contributors:
JOSEPH ALSOP • WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, Jr. ALEX COMFORT • DOROTHY DAY • WALDEMAR GURIAN EMMET LAVERY • CHARLES MALIK
JACQUES MARITAIN • FRANCOIS MAURIAC • EUGENE J. McCARTHY SEAN O'FAOLAIN • HENRY RAGO
H. A. REINHOLD • LEO J. TRESE • MARTIN J. TURN ELL GERALD VANN • EVELYN WAUGH
Foreign Reports by: GUNNAR D. KUMLIEN • ROBERT BARRAT Stage: WALTER KERR • Screen: PHILIP T. HARTUNG
Columns by: JOHN C. CORT • FRANCIS DOWNING
$7 a Year
18 Weeks $2
SAMPLE COPY ON REQUEST
386 Fourth Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
Check one-of the boxes, print your name and address below and return the lower part of this advertisement today.
2
The Scholastic
• LETTERS
Honor System
Editor:
I would like to compliment you and Mr. Bill Riley on your presentation of the question of an honor system for the University of Notre Dame. I appreciate your clear, straightforward, and informative presentation of this very important subject. I shall look forward with interest to the result of your poll of student opinion.
Like yourselves, we have an open mind on the question. You and Mr. Riley have done a good service in presenting this matter to the students in terms of student responsibility and support. You have summarized the matter very well in your editorial in stating that this support must be complete, and that if the University does institute an honor system, it must be with the understanding that the student body is prepared to accept the responsibility for its maintenance and enforcement. We agree also that an honor system is not an easier system, but involves a transfer of responsibility. . .
With kindest personal regards, I am Very sincerely yours,
James E. Norton, C.S.C.,
Vice President—Academic Affairs
|	. Editor:
For the past two days I have been 1	pondering the pros and cons concerning
i	an honor system at our university.
1 Having just returned from the matinee I at Washington Hall I realize that, with ,, the present brood of juveniles now Wj amon§’ the student body, an honor sys-T tem is impossible. A complete lack of consideration for the other fellow and disregard for all gentlemanly conduct f on their part—in the simple matter of j an afternoon’s entertainment — surely j	makes one wonder how an honor system
j	could be mentioned in the same breath
:	with those future “Notre Dame men.”
Charles Krywy
f	200 Lyons
■
Editor:
It is a little late, but I think that , there is still time for the student body to chip in and buy a great big Valentine for those 87% of the students polled on the question of having an honor system at Notre Dame'. (Scholastic, Feb. 15, p. 12)
Exactly what we could put on this i Valentine would of course be a difficult • problem. If these 87 percenters are as cynical as their opinion of their fellow " students would indicate we would bare-
of the man who wears
fl
Arrow Shorts!
Perfectly at ease in action...
perfectly comfortable at ease!
Arrow T-Shirts
Arrow Shorts... Gripper fasteners or all-elastic waistband.
Arrow Athletic
Undershirts
»»—-------------------
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
Ml I LB CRT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
February 22, 1952
3
ly mention such words as friendship, love or anything of an intangible nature. And yet I do not think that we, the student body can let go by unnoticed this tremendous vote of confidence that these men have given to us. The next time we are tempted to complain that the Administration or the faculty are treating us like children, let us look around and remember that apparently 87% of our fellow students think of us in this way, too. . .
Let us look for instance at the words of wisdom and confidence voiced by one Mark Tremblay: “Notre Dame’ is not geared for it (the honor system).” Who then, Mr. Tremblay, if not a school dedicated to Our Lady (a fair translation of ‘Notre Dame’, Mr. Tremblay) is geared to produce gentlemen of honor. Mr. Tremblay would have us believe that it is a “strict code of military discipline” that makes an honor system work. I imagine that this Mr. Tremblay would also have us believe that a horse pulling a plow—is on the honor system too because’ the harness is such a ’“strict . . . discipline” . - .
While singling out notables in this poll of student opinion, we could hardly overlook our highly esteemed Student Council President, Mr. James Garvin. In giving us a few words of counsel Mr. Garvin maintains the traditions of a true politician by saying: NOTHING.
Is it true that despite the families that we come from, and the’ education that we have received here, that we are still not men enough to govern ourselves in the matter of honor. Must we like little children be constantly under Mr. Tremblay’s “strict code of military discipline” to conduct ourselves ‘like men’.
If such is the case, men of Notre Dame rise . . . and bow your heads! ! !
Name withheld on request
■
Editor:
Please congratulate Bill Riley for me on his inimitable job of picturing the Notre Dame’ student as a little schemer who studies for exams by practising his eye-movements and limbering up his toes for turning pages of his pony. I wonder if the’ pressure of getting that 85% is as important as Mr. Riley wants us to believe. Perhaps it’s easier to kill a fine idea by discouragement in the beginning rather than have to think out a solution to the' problems the project presents. Mr. Riley’s reference to “the studential conception of honor” seems unduly cynical for a supposed student leader.
Despite his remarks to the contrary, I believe the students here are well aware of the fact that such a' system
(Continued on page 32)
4
no wrinkles in the wearing, packing or laundering
shirt
£
If s the Van Heusen with the soft collar that
£
wont wrinkle ..ever!
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
You can’t wrinkle the collar... vour suitcase can’t wrinkle the collar . . vour laundry can't wrinkle the collar . . . ever! And that soft collar stays crease-free without starch or stays. White broadcloth in regular or widespread collar. You get a new Van Heusen free if yours ever shrinks out of size!
$3.95 and $4.95
Van Heusen
REG. T. •*.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS



813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Graduating seniors sober and scholarly, today, in their caps and gowns. . . . ■
Carnival Time
It’s a bit of old New Orleans come to the steppes this weekend as the Mardi-Gras Carnival settles in for five days of roistering gayety and celebration.
Tonight, Ralph Marterie swings wide the doors of the Palais Royale and touches off the pre-Lenten holidays with the Mardi-Gras Ball. The Ball was ” originally set out for a masquerade affair with costumes and all, but somehow or other the idea was tempered down to a semi-formal, dignified affair — with masks available at the door for all ballgoers and especially for those who don’t want to be recognized.
We feel rather put out that the masquerade-costume idea was scrapped. Chaz and I had an outfit we’ve been working on for weeks, now. I was dressing up as a highball glass, and the thin man was going as a swizzel stick. I even taught him how to hold his breath under bourbon.
■
Even in the Afternoon, Yet!
Tomorrow afternoon, the gang heads back to the Palais to get rid of any excess energy they might have left over from the night before. For a matinee A mixer will take place from two till five, with dancing and refreshments (the modified sort, of course). And we understand that the Junior and Senior classes of St. Mary’s will pair off during intermission for a small field hockey exhibition (the smart money is on the Seniors).
■
And the House Wins!
Saturday eve the Navy Drill Hall or the poor man’s Monte Carlo will be abuzz and ashout with the spin of the roulette wheels, the taunts of the barkers and the groans of the losers as the sporting set, their fat rolls of scrip clutched in their hot little hands, take over the misplaced hangar, which will, no doubt, resemble Reno’s Hartod’s Club on a good night in July.
So far, no one seems to know if Ann Blyth or any other Hollywood attrac-_ tion is zooming out to do a quick per-5 sonal appearance stint at the Drill Hall, as was the case two years ago. But if
By Jack Hynes
there is still room for a suggestion on this matter, why doesn’t someone contact Tony Curtis and Janet. They have plenty of fans here on campus, and by George! I just know they’d love to come. If worse comes to worse, the committee can always get Spring Byington; she always has an open date for benefits. Even Frankie Yankovic—any port in a storm, I always say. But golly, lets’ get someone!	'
■
Mr. Interlocutor . . .
Sunday, it’s everyone over to Washington Hall for the Carnival Minstrel Show. The production is staged and produced by Jim Powers, late of Huddle fame, but now one of the bright young producing talents rising on the theatrical horizon.
We had the rare privilege, last week,
TWA ANNOUNCES LOWEST FARES EVER FOR SUMMER TRAVEL-STUDY TOURS
Earn full credits on all-expense university-sponsored tours abroad via TWA
Don’t let this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity go by in 1952. Spend your summer vacation on an exciting, profitable sightseeing and study tour abroad. Earn full credit on any
of 16 four-to-ten-week tours. On your tour, arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA, you’ll travel on luxurious TWA Skyliners. The price of the tour takes care of all your necessary expenses, letting you budget yourself in advance. Included are TWA’s money-saving new tourist fares—the lowest in year-round transatlantic history—which make these -tours extra-attractive this year!
♦Effective May 1, subject to government approval.
------------------------------------------------------j
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director	|
TWA Air World Tours: 80 East 42nd St.,	■
New York 17, N.Y.
Please put me on your list to receive detailed informa- J tion about study tours via TWA indicated above, to be I sent as soon as available.	|
Name Position__________________________________________
Address_______________________________ City__________________________________Zone_____________
State________________________Phone No.
to sit in on one of the story conferences for the show, and if what we saw and heard is any indication, this show should really have ’em fractured from start to end. Some real good stuff; we look for an indefinite run, even though there are but three performances scheduled. Get yourself two on the aisle, Dad, it’s in there.
■
Just in Passing
Happened to note something interesting in the cafeteria’s magazine rack. World Astrology Magazine is being predominantly displayed, due to popular demand, for all the world astrologers on campus.
This is all very well and good of course, and we would ordinarily be the last one to complain at a well-stocked and diversified magazine rack, but, now I ask you — World Astrology —is there anyone who really cares? And while we’re on the subject whatever happened to Turf Guide, Boy’s Life, Hot Rod and the other campus magazine favorites that don’t seem to be carried any more? World Astrology indeed!	•
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . which rented for S4.8-5 a copy.
Check the tours listed hero that interest you:
travel roues
[3 European Grand Tour * Q European Basic Tour [J Europe with Spain and Portugal
Q Europe with Scandinavia Q Europe with British Isles □ Holy Land and Egypt □ Mediterranean and North Africa
TRAVEL-CAMPUS STUDY
13 Europe: Music-Arf-Theaire Tour □ Europe and Study a* Fribourg □ Europe and Study at Geneva [3 Europe and Study at Oxford □ Europe and Study at Dublin □ Europe and Study in Spain Q Europe and Study in Germany
STUDY WHILE TRAVELING □ Flying Seminar (Europe) □ CaihoKc Study Tour (Europe)
Anss lie US and overseas... you can depend on
TA AMS IMOIHO AHtUMSS
February 22, 1952
5
Vol. 93 February 22, 1952 No. 17
3
Blood, Again
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
.Founded 1867
Emered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE__________________New
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY._________________Sports
THOMAS FOOTE.............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER............Librarian
RONALD E.- ZIER____________Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN_____________Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
We’re back on blood again. After the magazine went to press last week, we learned that there would be a blood drive after all. It seems that some ND students got impatient over the procrastination and went ahead on their own.
These six, who want to remain anonymous, did some investigating of their own. When they learned about South Bend’s lack of facilities, they wrote to Red Cross headquarters in Washington and as a result a bloodmobile from the Fort Wayne region will be here in a few weeks. As a result, too, Notre Dame now has the opportunity to show what it can do.
This week, volunteers canvassed the halls for pledges. This is merely a promise on your part that, when the equipment comes and the donations begin, you will contribute one pint of blood. If you haven’t pledged already, get a card from your canvasser and fill it out.
Perhaps the most noteworthy thing about this drive is the fact that the gentlemen who started it all acted independently. They did not act as members of any campus organization. Their motive had no selfish or .publicity-conscious aspects^ as evidenced by the fact that they refuse to have their names published. They are merely a group of students who thought it high time we had a blood drive and did something about it. Their action reflects credit on the whole student body.
We congratulate these lads for their initiative and public spirit. We hope that all the troops respond by putting the drive over the top. Our quota is 1,000 pints. Holy Cross, with an enrollment of 1,860, also has a 1,000-pint quota. If Notre Dame comes through as we hope, there shouldn’t be too much trouble meeting the goal.
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl. Vai Chun. Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger. Tom Godfrey, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner. Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moone, Gorman Redding. Bob Rust, Neil Scarlett. Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward. Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta. Jay Conlon. Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma. John Slavick. Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger. Ed Vasta. SPORTS: Mickey Carroll. Roger Fernandes, Bob Froliclier. Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy. Bill Noonan. Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett. Bob Huddleston. Jack Quetsch, Bill Ruby. Jerry Sheehan. Bob Swanson.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: On page 17, Scholastic presents a series of pictures depicting a basketball team on the bench anxiously following the fortunes of their mates on the floor.—Photo by Bob Huddleston
Academic Freedom and Catholic Education
Father Leo R. Ward of the Notre Dame Department of Philosophy wrote a stimulating article in last week’s Commonweal dealing with some of the deeper questions raised by William Buckley’s provocative book God and Man at Yale. Buckley’s main contention is that academic freedom at Yale has enabled some professors to foist their secularistic, socialistic ideas on a thoroughly Christian, thoroughly capitalistic student body. Father. Ward thinks that it was good this book was written, “good for Yale, good for all of us.” He also believes “it would be a good thing if any large school, or body of schools such as the Catholic colleges and universities, were now and then to get a comparable kick-back from an intelligent and bold young student or two.”
We wonder how such a “comparable kick-back” could ever be written? Catholic colleges don’t have the problems that face a secular institution, simply because they don’t have the “academic freedom” that secular schools have. Catholic colleges and universities arc bound by Catholic ideas and principles. Their faculties need not be 100 percent Catholic but they must be in line with Catholic doctrine. Has anyone ever heard of a Communist or agnostic professor teaching here? Academic freedom would allow them to teach but Catholic principles would not.
Any “comparable kick-back”—in education, politics, or morality—would be out of line with Catholic ideals. Look at Thomas Sugrue. Can there be anv compromise between academic freedom and Catholic teaching? We think not.
6
The Scholastic
FEBRUARY 22
PALAIS ROYALE—The 1952 Mardi Gras festivities start off with a semiformal dance from 9 to 1 to the music of Ralph Marterie and his orchestra. Price: $3.75 per couple.
GRANADA (to Feb. 27)—Pandora and the Flying Dutchman (Legion of Decency Rating B) has as its main theme the legend of the Flying Dutchman told in terms of modern people and happenings. This curious application of old fable to the present day makes the picture kind of hard to take on the whole. The dialogue is sharp at times and at other times it’s just a mass of philosophical mumbojumbo. Scenery and photography are pretty good; the whole movie was filmed on location at a seacoast town in Spain. Ava Gardner and James Mason share top billing-. Highly Dangerous (A-l) with Dane Clark and Margaret Lockwood is the co-feature.
PALACE (to Feb. 24)—The problem of baby adoption is brought to the screen in a rather heavy and ponderous manner in the picture Clone to My Heart (A-2) with Gene Tierney and Ray Milland. It’s a real tear-jerker and ought to go over great with the women but there’s not much appeal here for the youngsters of Washington Hall. You can take or leave the co-feature, Woman in the Dark, something about a jewel robbery.
AVON (to Mar. 4)—I TFcmt You (A-2) concerns itself with the problem of the soldier returning (to war. It’s not too bad a picture on the whole but it doesn’t justify the advance publicity it received. Dana Andrews and Dorothy McGuire handle the leads.
FEBRUARY 23
PALAIS ROYALE—Informal Mardi Gras social from 2 to 5. DRILL HALL—Carnival opens for its three day run at 7:30. WASHINGTON HALL—Angels in the Outfield.
FEBRUARY 24
WASHINGTON HALL—Mardi Gras Minstrel Show with performances at 2, 4 and 8. Admission: $.50.
STATE—Four power rule in Vienna is the theme of Four in a Jeep (A-2), which, right down on the military police level, reflects the tensions which exist today between the Americans, British, and French on one hand and the USSR on the other. Viveca Lindfors heads the cast, and most of the filming was done right in Vienna itself. Two Gals and a Guy is the co-feature.
FEBRUARY 25
. DRILL HALL—Second night of the Mardi Gras carnival with the lovelies from the west giving with the charm in various booths.
PALACE (two days only)—A couple of re-releases from the 1946 era—Caesar and Cleopatra and The Seventh Veil.
FEBRUARY 26
DRILL HALL—Last night of carnival. Car to be given away at 11 p.m.	.
.	FEBRUARY 27
PALACE—The stage play Oklahoma returns to town tor a two day run.
STATE—Sierra with Audie Murphy and When I Grow Up with Robert Preston and Martha Scott.
BETTER READING IS
A PRICELESS ABILITY
Students get a better grasp of their subjects through better reading . . . They can improve their academic standing, and get more out of their education.
To learn how you can read better_ faster, return attached card today.
Lifetime Skill
Find out now how easily and quickly you, too, can further develop your reading, skills for a lifetime of increased reading profit and pleasure.
Start Benefiting Now
A limited number of enrollments can be accepted this month. Cal], write, or stop in for free information and literature.
CLIP AND MAIL NOW
Mr. A. Brown, Director
South Bend Center
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better_________Faster”
Name____________________________________________
Please Print
Address........................................_
Major......................  Year______G
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSALLE	3-0077
(Open evenings ’til 9)
February 22, 1952
7
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Announces
THE MORRIS INN
"on the campus"
Will Open in April 92 rooms 92 baths
Rates from $6.00 Single - $9.00 Double
•	Dining Room, excellent cuisine, air-conditioned
•	Private Function Rooms, also air-conditioned
•	Room Service
•	Gift and Souvenir Shop
•	Cigar and Newsstand
•	Golf, Locker and shower facilities for men guests
•	Putting Green
•	Radio and circulating icewater in every room
9 Parking area, paved and lighted, adjoining

FOR the many friends, the Alumni, and the Parents of the Student Body of Notre Dame, the University is proud to announce the opening in April of its own hotel, The Morris Inn, right "on the campus," made possible by the beneficent gift of the late E. M. Morris, *06, of South Bend, Indiana.
The Morris Inn will offer its guests unforgettable views of the Notre Dame campus, with its famous buildings and landmarks, its traditional beauty and surroundings. In addition, if you are visiting at the University you will appreciate the convenience of staying at the school, saving you much travel time.
Guest accommodations include single, double and twinbedrooms, also parlor and bedroom suites. The air-conditioned Private Function Rooms will accommodate from just a few to sizeable groups and are ideal for civic, social and business luncheons, dinners, receptions, meetings, etc. The beautiful Terrace Dining Room is also air-conditioned and will serve excellent cuisine. Room service will be available to those who wish to dine in the privacy of their rooms. Other features of the Inn include cigar and newsstand, Gift and Souvenir Shop, Golf, with shower and locker facilities for our men guests and a large, well-lighted and paved parking area.
• RESERVATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED • E. H. Hunt, Manager
g
The Scholastic
Mardi Gras Ball Opens Frolic Tonight
5-Day Affair Offers Carnival, Minstrels
For the next five days, Notre Dame will be celebrating its gala 1952 Mardi Gras weekend. A big Buick Riviera prize, a special “package” weekend for day carnival—these are the festivities which, starting with the dance tonight, will keep the campus humming.
The whole grand affair will be climaxed when the winner of the Buick hard-top convertible will be announced at 11 o’clock Tuesday night. The second and third prizes, a TV and a radio set, will be awarded before the grand prize is given away. The student winners will also receive prizes: 1st—a Nash Rambler, 2nd — a Video set, 3rd—a radio.
For the last couple of weeks, these prizes have been on display around campus. The Buick appeared at the basketball games and at other spots on campus, while the other prizes could be seen in the Huddle.
One of the new attractions of this year’s Mardi Gras is the program of Minstrel performances Sunday in Washington Hall. At 2, 4, and 8 p.m. students will put on performances reminiscent of the Old South. Each show, lasting about an hour, will have a cast of approximately 50 students.
Mr. Interlocutor & Co.
Some of the participants are end men Bob Herlihy, Art Perry, Bill Bagley, Charlie Shubert, and Tom Foley. Lee Steiden will play the part of Mr. Interlocutor while Jack Daut and Bob Beh will perform a specialty act. Tickets for this production are 50 cents apiece.
The carnival, now a three-day event, will be held as in the past, in the Navy Drill Hall. Lasting from' 7:30 to 11:30, it includes participation in the booths by St. Mary’s girls.
The grand opening will take place to-
MISS JO ANN BERB
Queen for a Night
morrow evening at 8:30 outside the Drill Hall. It will consist of a ribbon-cutting ceremony with Ed Raque, carnival chairman, officiating.
Twenty booths were set up in the Drill Hall yesterday and today by Brian Kelly, booth chairman, and his committee. The Italian Club will be back with its meat ball concession and the Wives of Vetville will again be offering their home-made baking goods, while several other campus clubs will offer feature attractions in various games.
The chairman of all this festivity is Bill Toohey, assisted by Ed Vasta, con-
‘ESSENTIALS’ EXAM
Juniors and Seniors who have not yet passed the Freshman English “Essentials” examination may take the examination on Thursday, February 28, in room 330, Main Building, from 7 to 9 P.M.
Mar+erie Will Provide Music from 9 Till I
Notre Dame men, St. Mary’s girls, and their dates will dance tonight to the music of Ralph Marterie and his Orchestra at the Palais Royale. The Mardi Gras Ball will last from 9 to 1, with permissions extending till 2.
For this semi-formal affair, which will start off this year’s big Mardi Gras celebration, the co-chairmen are George Sweet and Joyce McMahon.
Miss Jo Ann Berb, Sweet’s fiancee, will reign as queen of the ball. A Muskegon, Mich., girl, she is at present a senior at St. Luke’s School of Nursing in Chicago. She and Sweet, senior class president, are planning to be married in June.
Miss McMahon, who is in charge of arrangements at St. Mary’s, is a senior across the Dixie.
Arrangements for the Mardi Gras semi-formal are being handled jointly by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Representing Notre Dame are George Riverman, Tony Messina, Jack Daut, and Tom Foley. The St. Mary’s belles on the committee are Kay Justin, Faith Kilburg, and Rosemary Donatino. .
Mai-terie’s orchestra is well known to most Notre Dame students as one of the nation’s best young bands. Headed by “The Trumpet Sensation Across the Nation,” it is featured on Mercury recordings and the American Breadcasting Company.	-
Saturday afternoon the committee has scheduled another event at the Palais Royale, the carnival social. Jerry Costello and his combo will provide music for this dance, which will last from 2 to 5. Cookies and punch are included in the cost of the ticket.
test chairman, and Ed Raque, carnival chairman. Jim Powers is handling the Minstrel show and Phil Toole publicity.
—Tom Godfrey
February 22, 1952
9
MISS JEAN RICHARDS
Through an Ice Age . . .
Seniors Present Flag, Cite Standout Men
In keeping with long tradition, the graduating class of 1952 held its annual Washington Day exercises this morning in Washington Hall. The ceremonies began at 10:15 with the academic procession. All seniors, with the exception of the ROTC members, who wore their respective uniforms, were garbed in their caps and gowns.
Climaxing the ceremony was the flag presentation of the American flag by the senior class to the University.
Featured this year for the first time was the awarding of prizes to outstanding students in recognition of various activities in which they excelled.
The awards were as follows: dramatics, Lou Garripo; outstanding unsung senior, Jay Conlon; and for interhall sports: basketball, Terry Brady; baseball, Ed Mahoney. These awards announced this morning will be presented at graduation.
Members of the Notre Dame senior class annually present the University with a new flag on Washington’s Birthday during the traditional ceremonies. The flag will be blessed after the Baccalaureate Mass on Commencement Day, June 1, and will replace last year’s flag during the Commencement Exercises.
Leonard Kilian, a student in the College of Science, presided as chairman of the ceremonies. Kilian holds the highest scholastic average in the graduating class.
Edward Goerner, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, delivered the prin-
10
DOUG ROBERTSON
. . . And a War Between Globes
cipal address at the exercises, while George Sweet, senior class president, gave an address at the presentation of the flag to the University. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, accepted the flag on behalf of the University.
Today’s exercises marked the 103rd year that these exericses have been in practice.
Conwell Cops Second In Oratorical Contest
Joe Conwell, senior from Greensburg, Pa., took second place last Friday in the Indiana section of the 78th annual Interstate Oratorical Association contest. Conwell’s oration, entitled “Hear the Whistle,” was a plea for Federal enforcement of adequate mine safety measures.
According to Prof. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, this was only one of many prospective speech tournaments which will be open to Notre Dame students.
On March 21, Notre Dame will be the host for the Indiana contest of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association. Last yeai- Notre Dame, represented by Conwell, won first place not only in the Indiana contest, but in the National finals as well.
An elimination contest will also be conducted here in March to determine the University representative for the Hearst Tournament of Oratory. The first contest of the Hearst tourney will be held at Chicago early in April. The subject for the orations this year will
Tickets for Comedy Available Wednesday
Admission tickets for the University g. Theatre’s production of Thornton Wil- fr der’s comedy, Skin of Our Teeth, will be | available to all Notre Dame students, | faculty and staff members, beginning £ next Wednesday and continuing through | Feb. 29 at the Dining Hall. There will | be no charge for these tickets, which can f be obtained during the lunch and dinner ! hours.
The' four evening performances of the Pulitzer Prize comedy, which will run March 2 through March 5, are open to the public.
Director John Tumpane has announced that there will be no reserved seats at any time, and the' seating arrangement in Washington Hall for each evening performance is on a first come, first “i" served basis.
The production is under the technical direction of Mr. Leonard Sommer, with Doug Robertson, Alice Weiss, and Jean Richards cast in the leading- roles. Denni Egni, Dick Simons, and Walter Swift play the supporting roles.
The comedy, surpassing even the recognition given his other Pulitzer Prize winner, Our Town, is classified in different ways, from a modern morality play to an insane comedy. It was picked as the “Best Play of the Year” by the Pulitzer Prize Committee in 1942.
The Antrobuse family, center of the play’s activity, is the story of an average American family living in Excelsior, N. J. The father of the family, inventor, philosopher and proverbial handy man, leads the fortunes of his clan through an ice age, a major flood, and a war between the globes.
I
$
be “Henry Clay.” A maximum time limit of six minutes will be allowed for each oration.
The local Breen contest will also be held in April. This contest is open to all students, and the Breen Medal for Oratory will be awarded the winner. The citation is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory, and no student may win it more than once.
During May, the freshmen will get a chance to compete in a strictly Freshman Oratorical Contest to decide the best frosh orator.
More details on.the individual tourna
ments will be forthcoming from the Department of Speech. Those students who are interested are advised to contact Professor Eisen in Room 328 Main

Building.
The Scholastic
J
!
> Blood Drive Here Reaches Half-Way Point; Pledge Booth Open at Mardi Gras Carnival
ND Faces New Challenge;
Idaho, Texas Lead the Field
Finally underway, Notre Dame’s long-awaited Blood Drive opened with a bang Monday and has been gaining momentum throughout the week in a determined effort to surpass the 1,000-pint goal pledged to the Red Cross.
The drive will continue during the Mardi Gras festivities, with a special booth set up in the Drill Hall to accept pledges during the three-night Mardi Gras Carnival.
FACTS ABOUT BLOOD
Says Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, dean of the College of Science: “There is no satisfactory substitute for whole blood. . . . We should welcome the chance to do our bit for those to whom we owe so much.”
The Army alone uses 10,000 pints of blood a day. The average casualty needs six pints, two of plasma and four of whole blood.
The average civilian—the Notre Dame student, teacher, or employee —can easily spare a pint of blood.
Meanwhile, student volunteers are continuing to canvass the residence halls. Faculty members and University employes are also being solicited to promise a pint of their blood.
Virtually all of the blood to be donated will be turned over to the American Red Cross Armed Forces Blood
Bank, to be shipped to the Korean battlefront. A small portion, however, will be retained to set up a private blood bank at St. Joseph’s Hospital for the use of Notre Dame students.
Actual giving of the blood will not take place for two or three weeks, when a Red Cross bloodmobile and ..a staff of one doctor and eight nurses will be sent to Notre Dame from Fort Wayne, Ind. Donors will be notified as to the time and place.
All 18- to 59-Year-Olds Eligible
Anyone betwen the ages of 18 and •59, inclusive, are eligible to donate a pint of blood. Those under 21, however, must have the written consent of their parents or guardians. Forms for this purpose may be had when the pledge card is filled out.
No one may give more than one pint of blood at a time. Normally, the blood volume in the body is replaced within 48 hours, but it is usually four to six weeks before a person is capable of giving another transfusion. The Red Cross requires a three-month delay before it will accept a second donation.
The procedure in giving blood is short and simple. Each volunteer is given a brief medical-history questionnaire to fill out and has his blood and circulatory system checked before being “tapped.” Afterwards, light refreshments are served.
Every precaution is taken to eliminate (Continued on Page 24)
Notre Dame’s traditional ability to produce a winner in any undertaking faces a stiff challenge in the current blood drive. Over 1200 colleges have entered the race for blood thus far, with more joining in every week.
Currently, the University of Idaho is out in front of the pack percentagewise. Over a third of Idaho’s 3,047 students have given a pint of their blood. In volume, the University of Texas leads all others with 2,810 pints contributed.
Like Notre Dame, Holy Cross has set its goal at 1,000 pints; but Holy Cross is a much smaller school. Washington University of St. Louis just passed their 750-pint quota by over -50.
At Notre Dame a cross-section sample of 200 students was polled before the drive officially began. Ninety-two per cent “took the pledge,” five per, cent were excused for one reason or another, only two per cent didn’t care to contribute.
At that rate, Notre Dame need not worry about reaching her quota, which is only a minimum goal, only enough to justify the Red Cross’s expense. Notre Dame has close to 5,000 students. To beat Idaho, they’ll have to give nearly 1700 pints. To beat Texas, 56 per cent of the ND student body must give. Because of rejections, the number of pledges must be much greater.
It’s a new kind of game for Notre Dame. Will she produce a winner?
The Army Alone Uses 10,000 Pints a Day
February 22, 1952
11
-1
O’DONNELL AND BARRY
Their First Attempt
'Heartaches' Weems Plays for Frosh May 2
'‘Freshman Frolic” Co-chairmen Joe O’Donnell and James Barry have succeeded in getting Ted Weems of "Heartaches” fame to play for the May 2 dance.
Aiding the co-chairmen in their efforts to decorate the “Rock,” sign the band, and iron out the organization of their first attempt at a large social production is a committee of seven freshmen: Ed Dargis, band; George Carhart, bids; John Sennett, decorations; James Griffin, finance; Michael Ducey, refreshments; Jerry Hughes, publicity; William Richardson, hotel accommodations; and Thomas McIntosh, who is handling the arrangements for the Sunday morning Communion breakfast.
Many details of the dance are in the idea stage at present, the theme being-one. At last notice, the advocates of an “April in Paris” theme were getting the upper hand. Whatever it is, the freshmen have promised something unusual.
In all the preparations for the dance, the Class of ’55 has put the accent on originality. The only convention which was agreed to was the schedule of a Friday night dance, Saturday afternoon social, and Sunday Communion breakfast. The price for these three will be "about $9.”
’ On presenting his ticket at the door Friday night, the holder will receive a combination bid-favor. This will consist -of a rather outsized bid which will double as a picture frame. Inside the Rock there will be a photography booth where the couples may have their pictures taken and get two copies of the result.
12
Seniors Open Lenten Retreats on March 1-2
The student Chaplains have announced that March has been set aside for the annual Lenten retreats for all Notre Dame students.
Graduate students and Seniors will open the series on March 1 and 2. Retreat master for this group will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
The Junior class will hold its retreat March 8 and 9, with Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., acting as the retreat master. Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., will conduct the Sophomore retreat March 22 and 23, and Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., will give the Freshman retreat, which is to be held March 29 and 30.
All of the retreats except that of the Freshman class will be given in Dillon Hall chapel. Cavanaugh Hall will be the site of the Freshman retreat.
The schedule for all retreats has been arranged as fellows; each will open on
Mass Schedule
Monday, Feb. 25 — Feast of St. Matthias.
Tuesday, Feb. 26—Ferial Tuesday. Wednesday, Feb. 27—Ash Wednesday.
Thursday, Feb. 28 — Feast of St.
Gabriel of the Sorrowful Virgin. Friday, Feb. 29—Friday after Ash
Wednesday.
Saturday, March 1—Saturday after Ash Wednesday.
----o----
Mass of Sunday, Feb. 24, will contain an instruction on the “Preparatory Prayers of the Mass.” Speakers will be: at the 7 o’clock Mass, Father Duffy; at 8, Father Cavanaugh; at 9, Father Fitzgerald; at 10, Father Furstoss.
Saturday evening with a conference at 8 o’clock, followed by the rosary at the Grotto at 8:30, and confessions in the Main Church at 9.
On Sunday morning, Mass will be at 8 o’clock with a conference following at 10:30. Closing services will consist of a conference at 1:30 p.m., followed by outdoor Stations of the Cross and the Apostolic Blessing.
The traditional preparation for Lent at Notre Dame is the Forty Hours Devotions, during which time—Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday — there will be solemn exposition of the Blessed Sacrament in Sacred Heart Church. Forty
Hours will begin this Sunday at the 11 o’clock Solemn High Mass.
Celebrant of the Mass will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the deacon, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C.; and Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., will act as the sub-deacon. The evening services during the Forty Hours, which will be conducted by Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will begin at 6:45.
Ashes will be distributed in the hall chapels Wednesday after the morning Masses and again in the evenings. There will also be evening services each Wednesday night during the Lenten season, excepting- Ash Wednesday, at 6:45 in Sacred Heart Church.
Student volunteers for the daily adoration services will be solicited this week by members of the Third Order of St. Francis.
Annual Photo Contest Open to ND Students
Kappa Alpha Mu, national collegiate honorary fraternity devoted to photo journalism, announces its seventh annual competition for college photographers. Entries will be accepted until April 1 by Prof. Ray Morgan, School of Journalism, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.
Notre Dame students are eligible to enter up to ten prints, with no more than five entries in each of the four classes — picture story, news, feature, and sports. These same prints may be entered as a portfolio, which consists of ten prints.
Judging will be done in two divisions, amateur and professional. Those students earning at least half their income from photography will compete in the professional division.
' All persons who place in the show will receive a certificate of merit. Two major awards will be given. The elevenvolume Encyclopedia of Photography will be awarded the portfolio winner of the professional class.
The portfolio- winner in the amateur class will receive a scholarship to the University of Missouri Photo Workshop, May 11-19. A S25 bonus, to help defray workshop living costs, will be given to the amateur winner, providing his prints emphasize college life. The workshop promotes creative photography under the direction of leading photo journalists.
First, second, and third winners in each class of both divisions will receive certificates of awards.
Entry blanks and contest -rules may be obtained by writing to Vernon E. . Miller, National Executive Secretary, * 18 Walter Williams Hall, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri.

The Scholastic
@ Council Calls for Student Aid In Planning '52 Football Trip
“What do the students want?” is the question that the Student Council is asking now with regard to next fall’s student trips. ,
There are four conceivable possibilities: Navy (at Cleveland), Michigan State, Iowa, and Purdue. The other two away games, Texas and Pennsylvania, have been eliminated because of distance and their position on the schedule.
Of the remaining four, Navy and Michigan State seem the most plausible because of interest and practicality.
The Navy game' is at Cleveland on Nov. 1, a holiday; therefore no canceled cuts would be taken and the trip would last from Friday to Sunday night. The price would be very reasonable since (J the game' tickets are free, considering Notre Dame as the home team.
The trip to East Lansing would be under somewhat different conditions: namely that the trip would begin on Saturday morning and officially end after the' game. The ND cheering section would be in the end-zone.
For the above reasons, the Student Council has proposed that two trips be made—to Cleveland and East Lansing —under the conditions mentioned. But the decision will be left to the student body, currently being polled on the subject.
Co-op Party Wins Chi Club Elections by 7-Vote Margin
The Co-operative Party squeezed into office by a narrow margin in the recent Chicago Club elections. Both the “C” party and the Co-operatives had intensive campaigns for the election, but after the voting was completed, the Cooperatives emerged the victors by a count of 97 to 90.
According' to club rules, the voters cast their ballots for a whole party rather than by individual candidates.
Led by President Joe Pagliari, VicePresident Pat Montroy, Secretary Bob Poden. and Treasurer Jack Stephens, the Co-operative Party plans to inaugurate more club member participation, continue the fortnightly meetings, and movies, obtain reduced rates on the South Shore trains, get student discounts at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, and bring back the summer formal to Chicago that has been missing for a few years.
A note on the student discount is that Joe Pagliari will probably be able to get this for the Chicago Club, and this " privilege will later be extended for all ND students.
Council’s Constitutional Revision Committee Formulates Plans For Changing Its Charter
Plans have recently been formulated to provide for a revision of the Student Council constitution, in order to correct certain weaknesses of the present constitution which have drawn a good deal of criticism of late.
Spearheading the action is a newly formed constitutional revision committee composed of the following members: Freshmen Larry Mullins and Bill Byrne, Sophomores Vern Essi and Carl Eck, Juniors Hugh Braun, Buck Hennigan, Don Carbone, John O’Connell and Tom Field, Seniors Bill Dempsey and Jim Garvin. Garvin is chairman of the committee.
All the leading campus organizations —Student Council, YCS, Blue Circle, NFCCS, Political Science Academy and the Master Plan Committee—are represented by the men on the revision committee.
The goal of the committee is to have a revised oi- revolutionized Student Government Charter before Spring election time. Intended points of correction include a split-up of executive and legislative functions to be modeled after the commission plan of city government, multiple representation in student government by classes, colleges, and dorms, and the setting up of councils of campus clubs. When completed, the new constitution will have to be ratified by
REVISION COMMITTEE
A Change Is in Order
the entire student body and will have to receive administrative approval.
A good deal of research work, preliminary to the actual rerising job, has already been taken care of. The Political Science Academy has conducted a survey of student governments at other large universities, an NFCCS club-survey committee has investigated campus clubs, and a Master Plan committee has conducted research into possible points of revision—the findings of these groups will be incorporated into the new constitution.
Any underclassmen interested in working with the revision committee are urged to contact Committee Chairman Jim Garvin in 120 Walsh.
New Irish Club Officers Plan Annual St. Pat's Celebration
Preliminary plans for the annual St. Patrick’s Day banquet of the Irish Club are underway, according to Ernie Buckley, newly-elected president of the club. It is to be the first big project of the new administration which, besides Buckley, includes Pat Shanahan, vice-president; Dave Hayes, treasurer; and Edgar O’Connor, secretary.
Ray Wagner and Norb Reiner have been named co-chairmen of the annual Irish celebration.
February 22, 1952
13
EDITORS OF THE ‘COMMERCE NEWS’
By and for the Students of Commerce
New College of Commerce Organ Covers Business News of Local and World Interest
By BILL MOORE
The first issue of the Notre Dame Commerce News appeared last January, published by and for the students of the College of Commerce. Originally begun as a Marketing Club project, the glossy-coated new review is intended to fill a long-standing need for a publication to report on the many interesting projects and research in the Commerce school and on the business world at large.
Although now in the experimental stage, the magazine is being developed by its editor-in-chief, Norbert Kraft, a senior in Commerce. Kraft, who ran a news service for the 20th Air Force in China during the war, is assisted by two associate editors, Bill Harvey and Ernest Bartell. Dave' Rogers is the secretary-treasurer.
Commerce student readers are enthused with the News, which eventually may assist the Placement Office in reporting on current job opportunities and requirements and in interviewing company representatives. Many of the articles carried in the publication are written by faculty members in the Commerce’ school.
Besides giving commerce students an opportunity to contribute to a technical publication, the new magazine will also furnish valuable experience to its staff, who in making up and distributing the self-supported magazine (subscriptions are 50 cents a semester) will be handling such varied problems as organization, promotion, research, finance, accounting, and administration.
The Commerce News will serve to unite the various clubs of the Commerce school in its contributed column, the “Corner Club,” and will carry news of meetings, lectures, and recreations planned by groups such as the Accounting Club, the Advertising Club, the Commerce Forum, the Finance Club, the Marketing Club, and the’ Propellor Club.
The new magazine will welcome staff assistance, especially among the upperclassmen, who would be able to add new ideas and improvements.
Because of its character, which is more in the nature of a review than a news magazine, the Commerce News may eventually be published as a quarterly, rather than a monthly publication.
Close Reservations -For Senior Ball Bids
Today was the deadline for making reservations for the Senior Ball, to be held May 9. However, there are a number of tickets available for those who still have not made reservations.
It was necessary for all who plan to attend to make their reservations, so that a site which will be ideally suited for the expected crowd may be chosen. Ordinarily, the Rockne Memorial would be the site, but with the present prospect of a great majority of the seniors attending, the Drill Hall will probably be chosen.
Committees have been set up for the dance, but more workers are needed for them to swing’ their plans into action. All those wishing to help are’ urged 1 to get in touch with the co-chairmen, Roger Fitzsimmons and Dick Stubbins.
Tentative plans have been made for the weekend festivities to follow the Friday night dance’, which will feature Ray Anthony and his orchestra. There have been attempts to get the Old Timer’s football game scheduled for Saturday afternoon. Should this be impossible, a class picnic to the Michigan dunes may most likely take place.
Seniors and their dates may also comprise a private first-night audience at the student musical, if that event can be scheduled for Saturday evening. Among the activities for Sunday may be a reception by Father Cavanaugh for the Ball-goers.
First of 8 Marriage Institute Sessions Slated for March I I
Under the auspices of the Department of Religion, the Marriage Institute for 1952 will be conducted from March 11 to April 3 in the Engineering Auditorium. Open to seniors, graduate students, and married students, the eightsession program is designed to instruct students in the important aspects of courtship and married life.
The program in general is to consist of two sessions a week for the four weeks, with each meeting commencing at 7:30 p.m. Informal “town hall” style talks by guest speakers will precede a general question period at each of the eight sessions. During the question periods, the’-speakers will answer ques- , tions presented from the floor by the audience.
Tickets • for the entire • series- may. be . purchased for 50 cents. The’ Marriage Institute is under the direction of Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C.
14
The Scholastic
Phil Willkie Speaks Here Next Tuesday
Hoffman, Reuther Speak at Studebaker Fete; Banquet and Exposition Held at Dining Hall
Mr. Philip H. Willkie, politically rising son of the late presidential candidate and world traveler Wendell Willkie, will be' on the Notre Dame campus Tuesday to talk to the Political Science Academy and all other- interested students.
At 4 p.m. in the Law Auditorium Mr. Willkie will give an address, open to all students. Then, after a 5:45 dinner, in his honor at Rosie’s, Willkie will answer the questions of the Academy members, along with their political-science student counterparts from St. Mary’s College as guests.
Just reorganized this year, the Political Science Academy began in 1935, but was discontinued during the war. The Academy, with its sponsoring of the coming mock convention and other projects, is greatly increasing its activities on campus. The policy under President Guy Emanuele has been to obtain the best possible speakers to supplement the knowledge of the students in the field of political science.
In line with this they have gotten Willkie, who, at 32, has become nationally prominent in youth circles, giving speeches throughout the country on behalf of the Republican party.
Willkie, with five years of naval service to his credit in the last war, is now completing his second term in the Indiana House of Representatives. He has also served through 1951 as chief counsel of the Senate Subcommittee on
Morals and Ethics, under Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois.
PHILIP H. WILLKIE
Addresses Political Scientists
By BOB GORMAN
Notre Dame’s Dining Hall took on a startling “new look” of red, white and blue banners and multi-colored spotlights last week as the Studebaker Corporation, fourth largest auto producer in the world, celebrated the completion of its first 100 years of business with a Centennial Banquet on the campus Saturday evening.
The event, sponsored by the South Bend Association of Commerce, was attended by 1,000 people.
The evening’s program was highlighted by several prominent speakers,
WALTER REUTHER
Fine Spirit of Teamwork
including Paul G. Hoffman, the present head of the Ford foundation and former Studebaker president, who extended his heartiest congratulations to South Bend’s largest industry.
Walter P. Reuther, international president of the CIO United Auto Workers, the world’s largest labor union, stressed the fine spirit of teamwork that has always existed between management and labor at Studebaker, and cited the organization as a fine example of the American way of business in contrast to the chains and enslavement which Communism offers its workers.
Three of a Kind
Other speakers included the Governor of Indiana, Henry F. Schricker, and South Bend Mayor John A. Scott, who pointed out the inseparable link binding
the fortunes of Studebaker, Notre Dame, and South Bend in declaring that “where one has prospered and grown, so have the other two.”
A festive air of gaiety and well-wishing pervaded the evening as Toastmaster George N. Beamer, president of the Association of Commerce, led the guests in an attempt to blow out the 101 candles (one to grow on) lighting a huge, five-tier Studebaker birthday cake.
Music was also the order of the day, with a selected group from the University Band playing supper music under the direction of H. Lee Hope. The band struck up “Happy Birthday to You” when the huge cake was brought out.
A new tune even shared the limelight as the Studebaker Male Chorus, under the direction of Ethel Stuart Gaumer, wheeled out the corporation’s new theme song, “Rolling Along for 100 Years.”
In front of the dining hall was a physical review of Studebaker’s progress during the last century, with a display that included Studebaker’s first product, an old “schooner-type” prairie wagon; the first Studebaker electric car; and the final product of the first century of the organization’s existence, a sleek, two-toned hard top convertible.
A.B. Dean to Chair Portions of Medical Education Confab
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has accepted an invitation to serve as chairman of two sessions at the second conference of the Subcommittee on Preprofessional Education of the Survey of Medical Education, to be held April 5 to 9 at Buck Hills Falls, Pa.
The conference will climax a survey by the committee among more than 100 colleges and universities which has been conducted in order to obtain as much information as possible about libera] arts education, particularly premedical education, and to ascertain as fully as possible all the influences which shape the young men and women who plan to enter the medical profession.
Father Cavanaugh will serve as chairman of two sessions on “Personal and -Social Responsibilities” at the conference, which will be attended by invited delegates from each of the collaborating colleges, representatives of selected secondary schools and of medical schools, and members of the committee.
'■ February 22, 1952
DOTE NIGHT
(LEFT)
Three obviously pleased
Hull in
the Louis XIV Ballroom at
student at the Royale to the
queens and faculty queens Science Ball at the Palais where 150 couples danced music of Ted Gallaghan.
St. Mary’s. (BELOW) There were
couples listen to maestro Gene
The final round of dances and social sport began last week as the lads and lassies in this neck of the woods had one last fling before Lent. Last Friday, in fact, was a big night for dancing. Across the highway, the belles of St. Mary’s staged a St. Valentine’s Lance. Downtown, physics majors, pre-meds and other assorted scientists were holding their annual Science Ball, complete with faculty guests.
A Good One to Win
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
The story was like a wedding, with something old and something new. The new was an eight-game winning streak which DePaul’s Demons brought into the game, along with an unfortunate preoccupation with their Loyola game two nights later. The old was a phenomenon * not unusual to the Fieldhouse, a com-w bination of Irish team spirit and fervent - . student support. All together, they
added up to “upset.”
It didn’t really look like much of an upset was in the making for the first quarter or so. The score mounted to 11-2, with the Meyermen on the long end, before anything favorable started to happen. And even that was tempered with sorrow for Rosenthal’s four quick fouls. But at half-time we were only three points behind.
From then on it was a fight all the way. We fell further behind. We came up to tie. We fell behind again. We tied it again, and went into the lead. They tied it, 70-70. Three men were out for us. Three big men. Then Bertrand scored, to put us out in front, followed by Leslie, followed by McCloskey. A six-point lead. And it was ours. A tough one to lose, a great one to win.
February 22, 1952
17
TOP: What does the catcher say to the pitcher? What goes on in a huddle? What happens during a basketball time out? It’s the old, old riddle, but the chances are that with an 11-2 score against them in the first few minutes of play, five Irish eagers are busy unravelling some knotty problems of offense and defense, while their team-mates are silent and expectant.
ABOVE: Words of encouragement from the bench sometimes help with the other team on the long end of the score, but right now things don't seem to be going so well. “My word, those fellows are good, aren't they?” BELOW: Johnny Jordan has something a little more concrete in the way of suggestions; he looks, he sees, he doesn’t like, he doesn’t want it to happen again.

TOP: The bench grows even more intent, as the game becomes bitterly fought and less one-sided. We seem to be starting to play some ball now, and things aren’t quite as hopeless as they might have appeared earlier. But there’s still a long way to go. Those other people have not intentions of letting their nine-game winning streak be snapped. '“All rght, men, let’s go get them."
4
ABOVE: "Please, please, please, just a few more!” For a while we can't seem to quite catch up with them. When we finally da, we fade, but like the fight announcers say, we're "coming on" now, until the score is once again tied. BELOW: Bertrand scores what turns out to be the winning points, some insurance, and the place goes wild; 76-70, and that's the old ball game.
What Will Happen to WND?
Text by DICK CODY Illustrations by JACK QUETSCH
Dear Editor:
In a few short weeks WND will be going through to Saint Mary’s. It will be the cause of wholesale rejoicing. Impromptu dances will spring up in Badin Bog. Confetti will be thrown from every window. The sidewalks will be covered with garlands of flowers. Searchlights will illumine the sky. All sorts of high functionaries will fight to be the one to splice the golden wire. You won’t be able to get near the station for all the high functionaries milling around in front of the Fieldhouse.
What I can’t understand is, why all the.excitement? Where is the cause for joyousness, for revelry and gambolling? Am I the only one who sees the hidden peril creeping nearer and nearer? For we are dancfng on the edge of our own graves. And I don’t like it. I don’t like it at all.
To what am I referring? I shall tell you. I am referring to what those women will do to WND. Pure and simply put, they will ruin it. Let me cite’ some examples. We now have “Randy Cornball—Space Cadet,” the lusty story of a man’s two-fisted fight against the elements, against the lawless who seek to ensnare us. I like it. Everyone likes it. So what will it become 4
“And now, from Sam W.for that little doll across the road . . ."
with all those women around? A soap opera. I can see it now. Instead of “Randy Cornball—Space Cadet,” they will turn it into “One Man’s Squadron”, and then “Just Plain Randy.” This, of course, will only be a temporary sop to us. When it’s all over we won’t even have a sop to call our own. Pretty soon it will be “Nora Cornball In the 25th Century.” After that there’s no stopping it. Can’t you just picture the outcome? “Will Nora get the spaceserum to Neptune in time? Will she be able to thwart Uxor’s mad bid for power? And what about Randy’s interplanetary binges? For the thrilling answers, don’t miss tomorrow’s true-to-life episode of ‘When a Girl Solos’ ”. The inevitable result, of course, is “Young Widder Cornball.” And after that, the deluge.
The Creeping Menace
This is but one example of the creeping menace about to engulf us. There are, alas, many more. Chazz Schubert will be reduced to wearing a chef’s hat and apron, and demonstrating the art of cooking French souffles. Tom Finn will be shoved down to the 9:30 spot on Friday night with a “How To Do It” program; how to knit argyle socks, how
to make your own sequinned purses, how to string Indian bead work. And Jack Hynes will have the sorriest end of all —an audience participation show. The custard pies and seltzer-water-in-face will be bad enough, but the ignominy of dishpan hands from demonstrating Bendix washers will crush him. A broken man, he’ll be back to writing commercials in a month. For it won’t be how much an announcer knows about music any more, or how good is his enunciation, but how much sex appeal is in his voice. And they’ll get it, by jimminy, if they have to pipe in Renzo Cesana from Hollywood. I myself wouldn’t be a bit surprised if we should get some character like “Tony, the Lonesome Caballero” spinning the records before very long.
And while we’re on the subject, just how long do you think we’ll be able to avoid a local gossip show? Unlikely, you say? About as unlikely as rain in you-know-where. “What St. Mary’s girl,” it is inevitable that someone will coyly coo, “filched what Notre Dame Senior’s A.I.S.C.E. pin while picnicking on what little island last Sunday? Is it true that those brownies Mary Sue H. says she’ll save for later actually go to Jack R.? And isn’t one well-known couple in the habit of hitchhiking up to Niles on Sunday afternoons? Shame on you two! You’re giving all Michiana a bad name!” Might as well turn off the radio. You’ll only be missing seven more minutes of this and the “Jimmie Fidler Show.”	;
No Pretty Picture
Oh, it isn’t a pretty picture. And that is far from all. There’s been an ugly rumor floating around lately— strictly unconfirmed, but take it for what
20
The Scholastic
it’s worth—that negotiations have already been initiated to have Tommie Dee switch his “Dinner Winner” show to WND. And speaking of dinner, that 5 o’clock menu can’t help but be a bone of contention. After all, who would be satisfied with bread pudding when they know that someone else is getting chocolate cream pie? Why there’d be muttered undertones all over the place within a week. Not to mention sullen murmurs, surly remarks, ill-concealed grumbling, and hotbeds of discontent. An open flare-up would be sure to follow.
There’d certainly be more changes, too. “Requestfully Yours” would never be the same. “. . . that was ‘Good NightLadies’ for all the gang up in the west wing of. LeMans Hall . . . and now, a very special request from Myra and Mona to play at 9:00 for Spec and Eddie, ‘Always Late With Your Kisses’ etc.” Which is all right if you enjoy a program crammed with meaning and significance. But don’t expect much music. People would be too busy either insulting or proposing over the radio to ask for something they just like.
What would a typical day of programs over WND be like? Well, for a representative specimen, it would probably look something like this:
A DAY ON WND
12:30—“The 12:30 Club.” Chazz Schubert spins half an hour of Arthur Godfrey records.
1:00—“In the Sportlight,” with Mrs. Frank Leahy. Predictions, scores, sports dope, and hints on child care.
1:05—“The Poetry Nook.” Keith Kline reads the poems of Edna St. Vincent Millay and other leadingwomen poets, with organ accompaniment. An inspiring 25 minutes of thoughts to live by.
1:30—Music with Jerry Costello at the Solovox. -
4:30—“Reduce-a-Day.” — Chazz Schubert back with a half hour of helpful exercises. Hear Chazz show how to take off a few of those excess pounds each day on the musical scale.
5:00—News. The feminine angle on front-page happenings.
5:05—“Your Doctor Speaks.” Easy-to-follow hints on hair and skin care. Dr. I. A. Gordon, and the Olive-O singing canaries.
5:30—“Dining with the Carstairs.” Ruthie, Judd, and the Little ones, in a solid hour chock-full of bright, informal chatter. You’ll love little Ogelthorpe’s reading of the daily recipe while mommy mixes and bakes.
6:30—“Lovely To Look At.” Al Wood brings the fashion solons on Ligonier right into your own room. Keep up-to-date on what the hat and bag set are wearing throughout Northern Indiana. Do you know whether heavy gold brooches are the thing in Shelbyville? What’s the hemline in Logansport? And why isn’t alligator selling in Rolling Prairie? You’ll want to know. And only “Lovely To Look At” has the answers.
7:00—“Youi- Convocation of the Air.” At the podium, Oswald Jacoby on Bridge Strategy Made Easy.
7:30—Night Field Hockey. Thrill and chills direct from behind LeMans Hall. , On-the-spot broadcast of every exciting moment. Player views and interviews.
9:00—“Bing Sings.” 30 minutes of songs you remember by the old master, Bing Heffelfinger.
9:30—The Saint Mary’s Glee' Club gives glorious voice to the world’s great deep-sea chanteys.
So that’s the plot in all its infamy. Will we succumb? Will it succeed? Only time will tell.
Yours truly, A Disgruntled Reader*
P.S. It’s almost unnecessary to even mention commercials, but for the benefit of those who still refuse to take' all this seriously, they’ll undoubtedly sound something like this: “Girls, have you looked at your curtains lately? Are they that tell-tale grey? Do they bag and sag? Do they blow right up to the ceiling when your window is opened?
“What brand do you smoke, ‘Rocket’?”
Then Curtis the Courteous Curtainman has a word of advice for you.
It’s no boast and it’s no brag, But our curtains just don’t sag.
So hurry down and you’ll see too, Dilnik’s curtains let the wind right thru.
Yes girls, Dilnik’s curtains let the wind right through, because Dilnik’s curtains are guaranteed to have more holes per square foot than any other curtain on the market today. Why the many interesting tonal effects as the wind whistles through those holes will set your foota-tapping in no time. So hurry down to Dilnik’s and ask to see our ‘Whistler’ stock. They’ll be the rage of your hall, too.”
February 22, 1952
21
Fr. O'Brien Lists 10 Marriage Commandments, Calls for Law Requiring Pre-Marital Instruction
A law requiring all couples contemplating marriage to complete a premarital course consisting of 12 lectures as a prerequisite for the purchase of a marriage license was advocated this week by Bev. John A. O’Brien, author and lecturer at Notre Dame.
Father O’Brien, speaking on “A Happy Marriage” at the Mercy Foundation Forum at Mercy High School in Chicago Sunday pointed out that such a law, “the logical sequel to the law requiring blood tests,” would greatly curb divorces, which he emphasized “are wrecking one out of every three marriages.”
Before receiving a driver’s license, Father O’Brien explained, the applicant must be properly trained and must prove his competence by passing a test. The stability of the home is not less important than safety on the highway, he stressed.
“With approximately 500,000 marriages hitting the rocks each year, bringing heartache, misery, and disaster to a million and more people, society stands in desperate need of some form of marriage control,” the Notre Dame author told the audience.
“Many marriage failures are attributed to mistakes made after the rice has been thrown, but at least one-third of them were wrecked before the announcements were engraved. Instead of marriage failures, they really were dating failures.
Ten Causes of Marriage Failure
“Any experienced counselor would have noticed radical differences -which foredoom the enterprise to failure, and he would have screened them before they took the plunge. His best advice to such couples would be a kind, but firm, ‘Don’t marry.’ No word of counsel to married couples in distress is half as helpful as the advice not to embark on a marriage that is almost impossible of success.”
Father O’Brien listed the most common causes for marriage failure as excessive drinking, in-law trouble, infidelity, radical ungeniality, selfishness, money differences, sexual maladjustments, cruelty, lack of understanding of marriage, and emotional immaturity and instability.
“In addition, there are two overall contributing factors of enormous importance,” the Notre Dame priest declared. “The first is the widespread secularization of marriage, considering it a mere
22
civil contract and not a vow made to God, binding for life.”
“The second is the chronic habit of “blowing one’s top,” shouting angry, cutting words, which breed bitterness and strife. These are the termites which little by little undermine mutual esteem and love and bring the castle of their dreams tumbling down on their heads.”
Ten Commandments of Marriage
Father O’Brien offered the following “Ten Commandments” for the husband and wife who wish to achieve a happy marriage:
1.	Thou shalt make thy promise of mutual love and loyalty a vow to God, binding until death.
2.	Thou shalt abstain from the angry word which wounds more deeply than the sword.
3.	Thou shalt respect the personality of thy mate and not seek to dominate or tyrannize.
4.	Thou shalt allow no in-law to interfere with the running of thy home.
5.	Thou shalt abstain from drink where alcohol is a danger to either party.
6.	Thou shalt make a family budget and observe it.
7.	Thou shalt eschew pettiness, nagging, selfishness, jealousy and false pride.
S. Thou shalt grow in consideration and love each day and share thy interests and pleasures to a maximum.
9.	Thou shalt love thy children as God’s supreme gift and rear them to be good citizens with a sense of honor, tolerance, and fail- play.
10.	Thou shalt kneel together in prayer each night, knowing that the family that prays together stays together.
Father O’Brien is the author of the widely-used text, “Courtship and Marriage,” and has written some 20 pamphlets on marriage and the family. His pamphlet “Love for Keeps” has been read by more than 25,000,000 people in 15 countries.
For thirty-six years he has been a counselor to university students on marriage, and currently is completing a five-year investigation of the causes of marriage failures.
Placement News w
On Monday, Consumers Power Co., a public utility located in Jackson, Mich., will interview graduates in engineering, business administration, or accounting for the Graduate' Student-in-Training Course lasting 18 months. Trainees are started at $265 per month plus all living and travel expenses, with automatic salary increases during the training period.
Two other companies will be' at Notre Dame on this same day: Swift & Co. of Chicago and Kimberly-Clark Corp. (Paper), Neenah, Wisconsin. Swift & Co. will interview Ph. D., M.S., and B.S. chemists and 'chemical engineers-The Kimberly-Clark Corp, will interview A.B. and commerce graduates for sales trainees’ positions.
The Ford Motor Co., Dearborn, Mich., will interview mechanical engineers, industrial engineers, metallurgists, and also finance and accounting majors, on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. There will be a group meeting Monday at 3:30 p.m., in the Audio-Visual Center, Main Building.
Westvaco Wants Engineers
On Tuesday, Westvaco Chemical Di-• vision, Food Machinery and Chemical Corp., New York City, will interview B.S., M.S., and Ph. D., chemists and chemical engineers for openings in research and development, process control, production and plant engineering departments.
The Marathon Corp. (Paper), Menasha, Wis., will be here on Tuesday and Wednesday to interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for sale's trainees. They will interview chemists or chemical engineers for research trainees, slots and Accounting graduates for accounting trainees. Electrical, chemical, mechanical, civil and aeronautical engineers for manufacturing trainees. Positions will also be interviewed. A group meeting will be held at 12:30 Tuesday, in the' Main Building.
On Wednesday the Whirlpool Corp., St. Joseph, Mich, (home laundry equipment) will interview mechanical, electrical, and industrial engineers for both engineering and manufacturing training.
The Bell Aircraft Corp., Buffalo, will be here Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, to interview aeronautical, electrical, and mechanical engineers, physicists, and mathematicans for positions in research, development, design and testing on guided missiles, supersonic aircraft, helicopters, airborne electron-ics equipment and rocket motors. There will be a group meeting Wednesday , in
The Scholastic
the Audio-Visual Center, Main Building.
On Thursday, Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., Milwaukee, will interview M.S., B.S.., mechanical and electrical engineers. Metallurgical, chemical and physics majors on all degree levels are also to be considered. Also on this day, J. C. Penny Co. will interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for sales trainees.
Both Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, and Toledo Scale Co. will be here Friday. Pratt & Whitney of Hartford, Conn., will interview graduates of all degree levels in aeronautical, chemical and mechanical engineering, as well as physicists and physical chemists. The Toledo Scale Co. will interview mechanical, electrical, and industrial engineers.
$ Kitchen Art Slated For Vet 'Bake Shop'
Products of the Vetville' women’s culinary skills are to be available in abundant quantity and quality at the Mardi Gras Carnival in the Drill Hall this coming week. Russell Barta, chairman of the Vetville booth committee, reports that the women have volunteered to contribute a great variety of cakes, pies, and cookies.
Designed by Ed Malo, an architecture student, the booth itself is to portray an old fashioned home bakery, and being all whitd it stresses cleanliness and quality. In keeping with the motif, the “bakers” are to wear white uniforms.
Today the painting of the Vet Rec Hall was completed. The ceiling was painted a cream-yellow shade, while tropical blue pigment was applied to the walls.
The' pre-Lenten dance announced for this weekend has been cancelled because of the Mardi Gras Ball being held the same night. However, the Council hopes to hold one immediately after Lent.
Rev. Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., in charge of the Maintenance Department, has notified the Council that crews will repair the community roads soon.
Mayor Lassuy reported that the potluck supper held late last week was a great success. He thought that it had the largest oi- one of the largest crowds ever at a Vetville potluck, with 150 persons in attendance.
The four-piece combo of ND students made such a hit that the crowd persuaded them to play for the entire evening. Their versatility was shown by the way that they swung from real lowdown boogie into smooth dance music. Mayor Lassuy said that they were the high point of the evening’s entertainment.
Commerce School Initiates Liberal Course; Spring Term Shows 63 Students Registered
By JIM HARRINGTON
With the beginning of the Spring semester a group of 63 second-term freshmen in the College of Commerce began studies in a newly designed “Program for Administrators.” The new course of studies, directed by Dr. James W. Culliton, administrative head of the program, is aimed at training students to become “competent, Catholic business administrators.”
Eighty-three' students applied for admission to the program, which was announced in the middle of last December following the completion of organizational plans during the Fall semester.
Of those that applied, 63 were chosen so as to make up a group as representative as possible of the whole freshman class. An indication of this might be drawn from the fact that 19 states are represented in the group.
The new four-year program is marked by two distinct characteristics: the subject matter covered and the course design. The former is aimed to help the student achieve competence in the areas of culture, Catholicity, and business administration. The keynote of the program design is integration of the three necessary educational elements: the student, the faculty, and the subject matter.	.
Six 3-Hour Courses
Courses and instructors for the first semester of the program include: theology—Rev. James Smyth; English— Prof. Joseph Ryan; mathematics—Rev. John Burke, C.S.C.; history—Prof. J. J. Green; marketing—Prof. J. B. Searles, and human relations—Dr. James W. Culliton. All of these subjects are three semester-hour credit courses specially designed for and integrated into the total program.
The designers stated in the program’s announcement: “Required courses include such subjects as mathematics, science, history, language, and fine arts in addition to religion and philosophy and the subjects more specifically related to business. Yet the basic purpose of these requirements is not so much to “cover” all important areas of human knowledge as to train men in habits of thought so that they will continue to expand their cultural, Catholic, and business competence throughout their lives.
“In addition, areas of specialization in business are offered so that each graduate' can develop special competence in a specific field.”
The second distinctive characteristic of the.program, its integration, begins right with the students who will take most of their classes together as a group.
“The aim here is to instill in each student the attitude of a team member working toward a common objective. Students thus have the maximum opportunity to learn from one another and to carry knowledge from one course to another.
“The faculty is integrated fundamentally by the common purpose of the program. This integration is achieved by frequent meetings to plan and carry out the curriculum, to discuss the progress of individual students, and to seek the • best ways of achieving the educational goals.”
The subject matter is specifically designed to achieve the well-defined purpose of helping to train students to become “competent, cultured, Christian business administrators.” Included in the program are sponsored extra-curricular activities, large amounts of written assignments, outside reading assignments, etc., all designed to aid as much as possible in the development of the group’s knowledge and skill.
Cleveland Club Elects Staff;
Meyer Named as President
In the annual Cleveland Club elections held in conjunction with a steak dinner at the Ramble Inn recently, William Meyer, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, succeeded Bernard Endres, a senior premedical student, who served as president for the past two years.
Other men elected are John Coyne, a Commerce junior, vice-president; James Murphy, a Commerce junior, secretary; Robert Bouhall, a Commerce senior, treasurer; and George Vosmik, a freshman in the General Program of Liberal Education.
Retiring club officers besides President Endres are Joseph Shriner, vice-president; George Hammer, secretary; John Smith, treasurer; and Richard Gaeckle, public relations.
A student executive council, which will assist in club functions, was appointed by the new officers. Members of the council are John Smith, Gerald Marshall, Richard Regan, James Liberatore, Daniel Hammer, and Thomas Marko.
February 22, 1952
23
Capsule Cclnep
ND ARTIST EYES PRIZE
Sixty-nine Indiana artists are competing for the record list of SIS,000 in cash prizes to b,e awarded in the Terry National Art Exhibit, which opens in Miami's mammoth Dinner Key Auditorium for eight days, beginning Sunday.
Paintings have been received by the Terry Art Institute, sponsors of the show, from Sister Mary Edna, of St. Mary’s College and Robert Fowler of Notre Dame.
CIVIL WAR VOLUME RECEIVED
A unique history of the 58th Illinois Regiment during the Civil War has been presented to the University by William J. Spillard, Chicago attorney. The history was written by his father, who graduated from ND in ’66.
Letters from General Healy and various Civil War veterans relating their experiences during the war were also included. General Healy was graduated from Notre Dame in 1858.
CHAPLAIN ON WAR NEUROSES
Major (Chaplain) Francis Sampson, U.S.A., will speak on “War Neuroses” in the next Sociology. Period talk Wednesday. Father Sampson has been in the Army since 1942, seeing action in both the European and Japanese campaigns during World War II. The talk will be given in Room 222 Main Building at 11 a.m.
WORLD LEADERS TALK ON ADENAUER
Prof. F. A. Hermens of the Department of Political Science will lead a discussion on Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of West Germany, at the next of a series of lectures on “World Leaders and World Crises.”
Vital questions pertaining to the problem of Germany, including the future of the German Democratic Party and the upsurge of Fascism and Communism, are to be dealt with in Prof. Hermens’ talk. Alli ectures are held in Room 221 Social Science Bldg, at 8 p.m.
INSTITUTE ON STATES IN LIFE
The third discussion in the Institute on States in Life series will take place Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock in the Engineering Auditorium. The topic for
24
the talks is “The Religious Life.”
Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., will speak on the nature of the religious life, Sister Carmen, C.S.C., on the sisterhood, and Brother Edward Kaniecki, C.S.C., on the brotherhood.
LA RAZA OFFICERS, GUESTS
New La Raza officers for the semester are President Schwab, Vice-President Enrique Lopez, Secretary Edmundo Olea, and Treasurer Antonio Do-miniguez.
The club has invited Barat College of Lake Forest, Ill., to join in the Mardi Gras festivities. The girls will be treated to a round of dances, parties, and the carnival.
La Raza’s Mardi Gras booth this year will be a miniature bullring, complete with toreros, banderilleros and even El Toro himself.
Blood Drive Here
(Continued from page 11) any danger, and the entire process is medically supervised by especially-trained technicians. There are no harmful effects. Completely painless, the whole procedure takes only about 30 minutes, less than half of which are spent on the cot.
Started by Six Students
After the blood is taken from the donor, it goes to the Red Cross lab to be typed, sealed, ticketed, packed, iced, and then shipped by plane to the battlefront.
Six Notre Dame upperclassmen are responsible for the drive here. When previous efforts by campus organizations to procure a bloodmobile failed, these six men took matters into their own hands.
They sent a telegram — in which they explained the situation here, .asked for a bloodmobile, and guaranteed 1,000 pints — to Mr. E. Roland Harriman, national president of the American Red Cross, in Washington, D. C. Six hours later they had their answer: a bloodmobile now in Fort Wayne would be at Notre Dame’s disposal for several days.
Asked what prompted their action, one replied, “The guys just felt that bloqd should be donated.” Some of the men are ex-GI’s; some have needed blood themselves in the past; all are aware of the present crucial shortage of whole blood for wounded fighting men.
DeCrane and Doher+y • Grab Debate Honors
Notre Dame’s team of Al DeCrane and Chuck Doherty captured second place in the Boston University Debate Tourney, held last Friday and Saturday at Boston. Competition included 30 other schools representing the best in collegiate debating. Penn State garnered first place.
Among the colleges represented were: Yale, Vermont, Princeton, U. of Pennsylvania, M.I.T., Rutgers-, the U.S. Military and Naval Academies, and Penn State.
The tourney is based on wins in six preliminary rounds of round-robin competition. The top four teams then proceed to the semi-finals, with the winners in this round facing each other in the * finals for the championship.
The four surviving teams after the elimination were Notre Dame, Boston U., Vermont, and Penn State. Notre Dame met and defeated Boston U. in the semi-finals while Vermont lost to Penn State.
Although losing to Penn State in the finals by a score of 2-1, Notre Dame has the singulai- distinction of going to the finals five straight times in the past five years. Notre Dame won in 1950 and was runnerup the other four times. Notre Dame, represented by DeCrane, also took second place honors in the extemporaneous field, which was held in two rounds of three sections each.
Last Wednesday Notre Dame, competing in its second international debate, met the University of Toronto on the subject, Resolved: “This house abhors ♦ the American Foreign Policy.”
Dick Galehouse and Carl Gunderson, both freshmen, defended the affirmative side of the question for Notre Dame. Dr. Kertesz, former- Hungarian ambassador to Italy and now a member of the Department of Political Science, gave a short speech on the subject after the debate was concluded.
In. keeping with Prof. Len Sommer’s practice of meeting teams from all sections of the country in order to meet all types and styles of debating, the Notre Dame team left last Wednesday for the Spring Hill College tournament. This tourney, annually held at Mobile, Ala., is being conducted Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
Here at Notre Dame Professor Sommer is developing speech techniques by holding an extemporaneous speakingprogram among the members of the Debate Club.
The Scholastic
Cagers Go East; Meet Navy Tomorrow
Irish Fencers Down Wildcats, Wisconsin
Last Saturday at the Patten gymnasium in Chicago the Notre Dame' fen-cers thrust and parried their way to a double victory over Northwestern 19-8 and Wisconsin 16-11 in a triangular meet. They were the fifth and sixth victories of the season for the Irish blade wielders against one defeat and stretched their current win skein to
four.
CAPTAIN JIM WALSH
Came back in sabre and foil
Against the Wisconsin Badgers the Irish ran into trouble as their opponents swept the epee division 7-2. But Coach Langford’s charges led by Jim Walsh’s 2-0 in the foil and Chuck Daschle’s 3-0 in the sabre came back in those classes with 7-2 triumphs to top the Badgers.
(Continued on Page 32)
Irish Battle NYU in Madison Square Garden Oppose Penn in Return Game at Philadelphia
By KEN MURPHY
Notre Dame’s basketball team closes out the February chapter of its ’51-’52 schedule and falls one game short of completing its rugged schedule, as the Jordanmen take' their second eastern swing of the season this coming week. Hosting the Irish will be the U. S. Naval Academy, New York University, and the University of Pennsylvania respectively.
Tomorrow the Irish invade Dahlgren Hall, the lair of the Middies, for their only afternoon game of the season.
The young and inexperienced Navy-squad, composed mostly of plebes and third classmen, has surprised most observers so far this season by rolling to 14 wins in 21 starts.
Clune, Lange Lead Navy Attack
Captain of this year’s Middie squad is rugged and durable Fritz Davis, the only returning lettermari from last year, who is now in his third year of varsity competition. The eagerness and ability of this green team is brought out by the fact that Davis, who was sixth highest scorer on last year’s team, has played fewer minutes than anyone else on the squad so far this season.
Also figuring to be troublesome for the Irish are third classmen John Clune and plebe Don Lange. Clune, 6 ft. 3 in. was high scorei- for the Plebe Team in ’51 and has already broken the Naval Academy’s single-season scoring record which was set last year at 330. In his first 17 games this season Clune racked up 354 points, largely off a .402 shooting average from the field, and his per game point average is a healthy 20.8. Lange 6 ft. 4 in., is the leading rebounder on the team, and his phenomenal .422 shooting average from the floor has placed him second in the scoring race with a 15.1 average pei- game.
Rounding out the Navy starting five
are second classman forward Don Kniss, who stands 6 ft. 4 in. and plebe guards Ken McCally and Larry Wigley. Captain Davis, Ed Hogan, and Jim Van Scoyoc give Coach Ben Carnevale a strong bench.
DICK BUNT
The defensive bright spot
Two nights after the Naval warfare, on February 25, Notre Dame makes its annual excursion to Madison Square Garden to take on the high-scoring Violets of NYU. It will be the 19th game of the series between these two rivals, which dates back to 1934. The Irish bit the dust last year, 87-72, but hold a 13-5 series edge.
February 22, 1952
25
LANGE, COACH CARNEVALE AND CLUNE A young but very effective ball club
Three starters from last year—captain Mel Seeman, Jim Brasco and Dick Bunt — along with sophomore flashes Boris Nachamkin and Ralph Naimoli make up the' New Yorkers’ first string. These men, along with reserves Hal Weitz and Mark Solomon, give the Violets seven players who are capable of hitting the double' numbers at any given time.
Captain Seeman, who capably manu-vers his rangy 6 ft. 6 in. frame' in the pivot, is a good rebounder under both boards and he gets his share of points with hooks, lay-ups, and one-hand push shots. Up front, senior Brasco 6 ft. is the greatest scoring threat, having rung up a 12.4 average last year to rank second in team scoring, and he is currently leading this year’s squad in the points column. Boh Nachamkin, 6 ft. 6 in., supplies aggressiveness under the boards.
In the' backcourt, soph Naimoli, smallest man on the squad at 5 ft. 10 in., teams with senior Bunt, who just returned to the lineup the first part of February after being out of action for over a month with a knee injury. Bunt, fastest man on the squad, was runner-up team scorer with an average of better than 14 points per game until he suffered his injury. Defensively he has been the bright spot in the New York court picture all season.
In Solomon, who stands 6 ft. 4 in. and started last year as a sophomore, Coach Howard Cann has a capable board-man in reserve, and in Weitz, sophomore setshot artist who has been on the ailing list along with Bunt, Cann has another competent replacement whose specialty is steering the easterners’ fast break down court.
On the following night, February 26,
the Jordanmen conclude their eastern swing at the Palestra in Philadelphia where they take on Penn’s potent Quakers in a return engagement. Penn is the only opponent on the swing that the Irish have seen before, having taken the Red and Blue in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse last December, 83-78, despite Ernie Beck’s 25 points.
Well-Balanced Team
The 6 ft. 4 in. Beck is Penn’s big gun. He compiled 43 per cent average in making 558 points last season, and led the entire country in retrieving rebounds. However, the Quakers have a well-balanced team, with every man a potential threat. Captain Don Scanlon, works the pivot, while Dick Herlum, a 6 ft. sophomore will start at the other forward slot opposite Beck. Added board strength is supplied by lanky reserveman Larry Masters.
Rounding out the starting five in the backcourt are a pair of watch-charm guards, Tom Holt and Bob Brooks.
Last week Jordan’s boys, with three
Novice Boxing Tournament
Place: Boxing Room of Fieldhouse
Event	Time	Date	Admission
Preliminaries ......... 4	p.m........Monday, Feb.	25.......Free
4 p.m.......Tuesday, Feb. 26.......Free
Semi-Finals ........... 8	p.m........Thursday, Feb.	28..... 15c
8 p.m.......Friday, Feb. 29........ 15c
Finals ................ 8	p.m........Saturday, Mar.	1...... 25c
players ineligible and three more— including the two big men, Rosenthal and Lewinski—out on fouls, got up off the floor in the last two minutes to upend the highly-ranked DePaul Blue Demons, 76-70. The stirring finish put on by “Jordan’s Bench” also put an end to the Demons eight game winning streak. Lewinski, besides putting on a determined rebound fight under both boards, bucketed 19 points before he fouled out in the hectic last canto—to lead the' Irish attack. Bertrand played the entire game in his usual fiery style and threw in 14 points from every position on the team, his last two hooks from the pivot breaking DePaul’s back. Leslie with 14, McCloskey with 15, and Gibbons with 10 points were other big factors in the Irish triumph.
Pugilists Prepare 3 For Biggest Bengals
With upwards of 50 aspiring pugilists, whittled down from the over 70 starters, working out under the direction of Dominic Napolitano, Mr. Boxing’ at Notre Dame, the 1952 edition of the Bengal Bouts looms up as the outstanding athletic event in the spring sports calendar.
Among the 50 are many Bengal veterans, including finalists in previous tourneys. Best known among the latter are Joe Brown, who will fight in the light-heavy class, Dick Cotter, last year’s top heavyweight; Geary Becker, champ in the 127-pound class last year; and Dick Windishar who whipped another returnee, Tom Chisholm, in the finals of the 157-pound division last year by a split decision after one of the most exciting matches in Bengal history.
Tops among the newcomers is one Carl Eck, who will most likely fight in the 137 ox* 147 pound-division. Eck, who had no previous boxing experience prior to coming to Notre Dame, won in his first outing aaginst Andy Layas of Purdue. He is most likely to succeed Johnny
26
The Scholastic
,-jl O’Brien, perennial champ in. the 137-~ pound class.
Novices who intend to compete in the Bengals are being given a chance to sharpen up their punching and become used to fighting before a crowd in the Novice boxing tourney, an innovation this year. Annually, one or two of the newcomers upsets all others, sometimes including the returning champ, to win his weight-class crown. An example of that was Geary Becker’s victory in the 127-pound class last year over Sal Fiorella. Becker* and Fiorella will probably meet again this year.
Harrington, Springer Take Vaulting Honors
By BOB FROLICHER
t
Winning four events each, Michigan and Drake' split scoring honors in the 30th running of the Michigan State relays at East Lansing, last Saturday. Twenty-two Notre Dame trackmen participated in the meet along with 400 contestants from 24 other colleges and universities.
The Irish pole-vaulting aces, Sophomores Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, placed one-two in their event to win Notre Dame’s only first and second in the meet. Both cleared 13 feet, Harrington going up to 13-4. Just last week Harrington also went 13 feet to tie an indoor record with Missouri.
Notre Dame lost a heart-breaker in the 240-yard shuttle hurdle relay, crossing the tape line first but being disqualified for starting too soon. The event went to second-place Michigan State. The Irish placed in three other races of the' day, the two-mile, and the two-mile relay, and the distance medley relay. Harry Snyder, Irish two-miler, finished third behind Dewey Johnson of Drake and Michigan * State’s Jerry Zerbe. The winning* time was 9:37.8. Notre Dame also placed third in the distance medley relay. The Notre Dame relay team placed fourth in the two-mile relay behind Michigan, Oklahoma and Michigan State. The Wolverines chopped off 0:5.2 of the former time to set a new meet and fieldhouse record.
The highlight of the day was the shattering of the national A.A.U. indoor record by the University of Michigan distance medley team. The winners bettered the 10:08.9 set last year by Michigan with a time of 10:04.5. One other A.A.U. indoor record was equaled by Jim Golliday in the 75 yard dash. Five more fieldhouse and meet ™ times fell by the wayside and two were equalled.
Irish Boxing Club Sweeps Purdue Ring Meet; Vigil, Chisholm, Brown Win by Knockouts
By BILL NOONAN
The initial appearance of the University of Notre Dame in the field of intercollegiate boxing, since back in the twenties, proved a rousing success here last Friday night as an appreciative home crowd saw the Irish boxers thump out a 7-0 victory over Purdue. The Irish group was hand-picked from the intermural ranks by Dominic Napolitano, professor* and director of physical education. Headlining the card were four of 1951’s Bengal Bout champions.
The first competitive event of the night was in the 135 pound class. Geary Becker, Park Ridge, Ill. junior and last year’s 127-lb. title holder, came from behind to take Purdue’s Ray Ritter and give ND its first in the string of seven wins. The lankier Ritter floored Becker for a nine count midway in the first round with a solid right. In the second round, Becker, fighting from a southpaw stance, ducked inside the Purdue pugilist’s menacing right and took the play away with some good lefts, one of which sent Ritter down for a nine count. Continuing his second round performance in the third, Becker scored time and time again with his lethal left and had Ritter reeling as the gong sounded, ending the bout.
Eck Very Impressive
The second bout was one of the best of the card, featuring the boxer style vs. the brawler style. ( In this one, it was the boxer that emerged victorious as Carl Eck, an ND sophomore in his first
FANS APPLAUD	COTTER (1) SMASHES
An initial appearance proved a rousing success
boxing match won a unanimous decision over the Boilermaker’s Andy Layas. Layas was the aggressor in the first round, twice driving Eck into the ropes, but the ND fighter warded off most of the attacks and scored often himself with sharp counter blows. Boxing smoothly Eck made Layas miss consistently in the second and third and a number of times drove his tiring adversary into the ropes with a shower of punches.
The third bout of the evening provided the crowd of 2500 with its first knockout. Leo Vigil of Boys Town, Nebraska and Purdue’s Gerry Brooks were the participants. Vigil, an experienced Bengal Bouter, made short work of the taller Brooks with a wicked left cross. The time was 54J4 seconds of the first round.
Two matches were fought in the 160 pound class. Dick Windishar of • McMinnville, Oregon and Tom Chisholm, Pampa, Texas, last yearns Bengal finalists in this division, were the Blue and Gold color bearers, opposing Julian Taylor and Jim Warnn respectively. Windishar, Bengal champion had a fairly hard time with Taylor. Starting out slowly, the two fighters began to mix it better later in the fight with the Irish champ building up a steady lead to win a unanimous decision.
Referee Stops Fight
In the Chisholm-Wamn clash, the Notre Dame Texan was the whole show.
February 22, 1952
27
A smashing right by Chisholm in the second sent Warnn on his way. Under an umbrella of lefts and rights, the Boilermaker went down as the bell ended the round. Only 1:17.5 seconds of the third round went by before the referee stepped in and stopped it.
For the third time in four fights, a KO occurred, this one coming in the first two minutes of the 175-lb. battle between Joe Brown and Fred Miller. Brown, solidly-built Bengal title defender from Sanders, Arizona had an easy time disposing of Miller. Connecting constantly with sledge-hammer lefts and rights, Brown sent the chunky Miller hurtling to the canvas, the decision finally being scored as a T.K.O.
Cotter gets up twice to win
The finale was probably the closest of all the bouts. Dick Cotter, hard punching Austin, Minnesota heavyweight who was last year’s undisputed Bengal’s champ, had his hands filled with rocklike Norm Plachecki of Grand Rapids, Michigan. It was a regular Pier Six Brawl as Plachecki barreled into Cotter at the opening bell downing the ex-football halfback twice in the first session. In the next round, Cotter regained his poise and got the better of a fierce exchange of punches. The action slowed a bit in the third as both fighters wearied of the swift pace. The grind especially showed on Plachecki who was tagged often by Cotter’s strong left hand. Cotter’s comeback earned for him rhe decision of the referee and judges.
In a preliminary exhibition, 127 pounder Pat Drew and Sal Fiorella, both of Notre Dame, mixed it up for three rounds. No decision was issued because of the exhibition status.

DOMINIC NAPOLITANO A good coach
By Jack Varley
One might come to the conclusion, after last Friday when seven Notre Dame boxers decidedly beat seven Purdue boxers, that quite a bit of boxing talent abounds on the Notre Dame campus. One might also conclude that the school has a very capable coach and trainer in the form of Dominic Napolitano. One might even go further and state that boxing is appreciated here by the fact that some 2,500 fans witnessed the events and didn’t seem at all disappointed in what they saw. Then, why not have more of these affairs? Why not elevate boxing to an intercollegiate sport and thus enable Brown, Cotter, Becker and company to meet such top flight collegiate boxing combines as Wisconsin and Michigan State?
Nappy is a good trainer. It was very
evident that the Irish boxers were in top shape, in much better shape
than the Purdue boxers. He is a good coach. In the first round of the
first bout last Friday, Notre Dame’s Geary Becker was behind his opponent, Ray Ritter. Between rounds, Nappy crawled into his corner and
told him every time Ritter so much as flexed his right arm, throw a left. Becker did and easily carried the last two rounds.
Some argue that the purpose of boxing in itself is wrong. This might be true ... in the case of professional boxing, but not boxing on an intercollegiate level as voiced by the rules of the NCAA. The purpose of intercollegiate boxing, according to the preamble of the NCAA rules, as a sport is to outscore, to outthink, and out-maneuver the opponent through the medium of well placed blows or hits; to win on points, to decision an opponent because of superior technical skill, ring strategy and physical condition. Skill is emphasized and net brute force as
CARL ECK
His First Fight
1
1
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 23—FENCING—Illinois at Champaign
23—TRACK—Marquette and Michigan Normal at ND
23—BASKETBALL—Navy at Annapolis
25—BASKETBALL—NYU at New York
25—BOXING—Novice Tournament
26—BASKETBALL—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia
26—BOXING—Novice Tournament
28—BOXING—Novice Tournament
29—BOXING—Novice Tournament
often predominates in professional boxing.
There is nothing wrong with intercollegiate boxing. Notre Dame has capable boxers and a fine coach. Then why not boxing on an intercollegiate level?
Carl Eck, fighting the
JOE BERTRAND Outstanding
first fight of his career, came pretty close to stealing the show last Friday when he de-cisioned Purdue’s Andy Layas. The Williamsport, Pennsylvania boxer put on one of the best displays of boxing on the card. A fine defensive puncher with sharp jabs, he is definitely a man to watch in the forthcoming Bengals.
Probably the brightest spot in the 1951-52 home basketball season was seen last week when the Irish came from behind and dumped DePaul, 76-70. Outstanding star of the night was guard-center Joe Bertrand who did the best pivot job of the year when he took over the position after Norb Lewinski had fouled out. He scored three baskets in the last couple of minutes to set up the
death blow dealt by Leroy Leslie’s and Jerry McCloskey’s buckets.
28
The Scholastic
* Windishar vs Chisholm—Immovable Object Meets Irresistible Force In The Bengal Bouts
By FRANK PRICE

Generally conceded to be one of the most spectacular fights in Bengal Bout history, the Windishar — Chisholm finale in the 157 pound class last year will prove even more exciting should history repeat itself in the ’52 Bengals.
Both fighters, if the draw places them in opposite brackets, are favored to meet in the finals. If sparring sessions and the match with Purdue are any indication of what is to come, there will be a capacity house Bengal Bout night.
Tom Chisholm, a senior- in Walsh hall from Pampa, Texas, has fought in the Bengals the last two years. Each year has shown a marked improvement in the Texan’s pugilistic ability.
In his sophomore year he defeated Rusty Vigil to gain a berth in the semifinals against Vic Roblez. Roblez, former runner-up for the middleweight crown of the Pacific Fleet, had too much experience for Chisholm and gained a unanimous decision.
The following year found Chisholm much improved as he fought his way to the finals, again disposing of Vigil en route. This time he faced Dick Windishar in a whirlwind finish to the 157 pound title chase. The split decision, which had the crowd on its feet for the entirety of the fight, was awarded to Windishar.
Dick Windishar, a senior from McMinnville, Oregon, has fought in the Bengals for the last three years and for that reason is considered the “veteran” of the two. Neither had any tournament tW fighting experience before coming to Notre Dame.
Dick received valuable experience during his first two years as a Bengal Bout-er. He fought such tournament standouts as Joe Brown, Dan Finn and Vic Roblez — all one time - Bengal title holders.
Besides the valuable experience, “Windy” received many broken noses. Finn, Roblez, Brown and Chisholm all joined the Windishai- nose-breaking club. Chisholm broke Dick’s nose in last year’s hectic battle.
One week before the 1950 tournament Dick’s nose was broken in practice. He had it set, but to no avail. In his first fight it was broken again. “I didn’t "bother to get it set after that,” he said.
Like Chisholm, Dick has improved each year, topped by the title last year. ^Windishar wants the crown this year to ^establish his superiority in the 157 pound class. But Tom Chisholm, look
ing for the crown that has always eluded him, is standing in his way. If the two meet this year, it will be the irresistible force versus the immovable object.
CHISHOLM AND WINDISHAR One of the Bengal’s best fights
Kansas City, Buffalo, Detroit Lead Keglers
By JACK SAND
Action in the Blue League reached its peak last Sunday as the third place Kansas City Club vaulted into a first place tie with Buffalo as a result of their four game sweep over the formeileague leaders, the Irish Club.
While the Irish were dropping four, the second place Buffalo Club managed to gain a split with the Columbus Club and thus pull into a tie with Kansas City, each team having a grand total of 30 points. Pacing the upstate New Yorkers was Jerry McCabe, with a three game series of 475.
Moving into a second place deadlock with the Sons of Erin were the Civil Engineers by virtue of their three point victory over the American Chemical Society. Cy Brabeuec rolled a 505 series to keep the Engineers in contention, since they now have 29 points to their credit, only one below the leaders. ’
Over in the Gold circuit it seems as if Detroit’s championship keglers, even when they have an off day, still manage
I am beginning to think that the jinx which Doctor Carlson of Pitt had over the late George Keogan is carrying over to me. As a player against Pitt we beat them once in six meetings and as a coach I have been blocked in two attempts.
In our foui- remaining games we are playing against teams with very fine records. N.Y.U. on Monday night will be tough as they have lost only three games to date, and they have a veteran team which beat Notre Dame last year. Against Penn in December we played one of our finest games to win 83 to 78. Navy is a young team, but they have been very potent thus far. De Paul at Chicago Stadium is usually a better ball club.
At this time the loss of Joe Bertrand will hurt tremendously. It is a great tribute to Joe that he has played in the last seven games with a cracked vertebrae. He certainly has displayed dogged determination to win and a great fighting heart.
Despite all of the difficulties that have beset myself and the team this year, we are deterimned to salvage a good record in our remaining games.
Many thanks to the student body in behalf of Leroy Leslie for the tremendous ovation you gave him when he finished his great career at home. He certainly deserved it.
to win, as they whipped a weak Philadelphia Club in three games to gain four more points and increase their league’s leading total to 34. For the first time in a number of weeks,
The second place Italian Club remained second while splitting four points with the Mechanical Engineers (ASME), but dropped two more points behind the leaders. Dick’ Petrarca was tops for the Italians with a nice 477 series. The ASME are now in a dead heat with the onrushing St. Louis Club who copped three out of four points from Chicago, behind the fine bowling of Art Henken. But Henken’s 232 high game and 524 series, was topped by his opponent Paul Pfohl, who registered a superb 566 series and a 236 high game that tied him with Ray Bara for individual single honors in that department. Bob Dougherty’s 479 set aided Henken and his mates in gaining a three-way third place tie with the Engineers and the California Club.
February 22, 1952
29
Plenty of preparation goes into that seemingly disorganized mess that winds up as a basketball broadcast by Station WND. Above, Bob Dougherty prepares the ‘'dope sheet” on Marquette.
On the night before the game, ‘‘Warm-Up Time” is tape recorded. Above (with regular member Jack Varley absent) Jim Gannon and guest panelist Jim Gibbons listen as Mickey Carroll expounds.
Bob Dougherty, Jim Gannon, and Mickey Carroll follow play, above. Below, Gannon and Tom Driscoll relax.
Much technical work is needed before the broadcast is all ready to hit the ether. Above, engineer Bob Donoghue hauls some equipment to the broadcast site. Below, work comes after the game too as interviews are held in the Irish dressing room.
k Wrestlers Outpoint Chicago Team; Win 6 of 8
By ROGER FERNANDES
NOONAN, CUNNINGHAM, ZAMBROSKI, CARLSON AND PAQUETTE (1st row) PICCINI, ANTON, GORDON, STANLEY AND MARQUETTE (2nd row) Took six of the eight matches
Zahm-Morrissey affair was halted when the lights went out, and this encounter will be replayed at a later date. The games originally scheduled for February 21 have been set back to Feb. 26 because of the holiday this weekend.
20%
DISCOUNT on Cleaning and Pressing to N. D. men. Expert Shirt Laundering RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON ON THE BUS LINE
Notre Dame’s young wrestling team came up with their first victory of their first season a week ago last Saturday as they out-hassled the' lads from the University of Chicago by a count of 24-7. The meet took place in Bartlett’s Gym on the southside of Chicago.
The Irish took six of the eight matches and Notre Dame’s Joe Marquette gained a draw against Chicago’s Myers 2-2 in one of the others. Fred Bates _ at 155 lbs. won the only victory for the Chicago squad when he pinned Fred Piccini of Notre Dame.
Teams to Meet Again
A week from tomorrow on March 1 the two schools will again meet on the wrestling mat and this time the Irish will play hosts, here in the fieldhouse. The tussling Irish, undel- their able advisor Mr. Tom Fallon, gained two of their six victories by pins and took 3-1 decisions in two of the others. Here are the final individual results of the N.D. vs. Chicago U. meet:	.
121 lbs.—Bob Gordon (ND) pinned Was (C. U.) in 1:45 of the first period.
128 lbs.—Frank Cunningham (ND) pinned Snyder (C.U.) in 2:29 of the $ second period.
136 lbs.—Dick Anton (ND) decisioned Maxwell (C. U.) 3 to 1.
145 lbs.—Carl Carlson (ND) de-^:isioned Zlatich (C. U.) 3 to 1.
155 lbs.—Fred Bates (C. U.) pinned
Fred Piccini (ND) in 2:35 of the third period.
165 lbs.—Bill Stanley (ND) decisioned Ladas (C. U.) 7 to 5.
175 lbs.—Joe Marquette (ND) had a draw bout with Myers (C. U.) 2 to 2.
Heavyweight—Tony Zambroski (ND) decisioned Kluckhohn (C. U.) 5 to 4.
Interhall Sports Schedule Features Basketball Tourney
Mr. Ernie Szekeley of the physical education department has announced that all interhall league basketball play will be completed by February 27 and has tentatively set the dates for the championship tournament at February 28-29, March 3 for the semi-finals, and March 5 for the finals. The winners in each of the ten brackets will battle it cut for the campus championship. Regulation eight-minute' quarters and timeouts will characterize the - games, all of which will take place in the Fieldhouse.
Among the favorites to battle their way into the tourney are Dillon, Walsh, Breen-Phillips (Ev.), Farley Orange, West Virginia, Badin (Ev.), Howard (Ev.), Alumni (Ev.), and Alumni (Aft.).
Recent league play was characterized by a big upset of Alumni (Aft.) at the hands of the Milwaukee Club. The
PHOTOS COPIED
20 for $1.00
DeLuxe Wallet-size Prints Send any size photo or negative No Proofs . . . Original returned
IDEAL FOR COLLEGE, ROTC, OR JOB APPLICATIONS
Federal Wallet-Size Photo Co.
P. 0. Box 2448 Dept. Kansas City 6, Mo. (No C.O.D.’s Please)
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS
REPAIRING _______
GUARANTEED
Marti
I 2 6 -" NO. MICHIGAN
February 22, 1952
31
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bldg.
Notre Dame
STUDENTS
Welcome at
128 W. Washington St.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
NONE of the girls were wild about this Wildcat. His hair looked like something the cat dragged in! "I’m feline mighty low," he told his Paw. "Every Tomcat, Dick and Harry on campuss has dates but me!” “Yes, Siam aware of that, son. You need Wildroot
Cream-Oil hair tonic. All the cats are using it because it’s nonalcoholic Contains soothing Lanolin. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Help you puss—I mean pass the Finger-Nail Test.” So Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now he’s the most popular Persian at school. Purr-haps it’s what you need! Take some small change out of your kitty and pussy-foot it to the nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. And ask fur professional applications at your favorite barbershop. Hurry—meow is the time!
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
WiLDKOO ■
Fencers Win Two
(Continued from page’ 25)
Notre Dame also found little trouble with the Wildcats of Northwestern in the sabre and foil classes as they out-fenced them for 7-2 victories. Jim Graham’s 3-0 and Paul Gibbons’ 2-0 paced the Irish in the sabre. Captain Walsh added 3-0 to his day’s total to show the way in the foil division and become the high point man of the meet with five matches won against no defeats.
Brian Duff with 3-0 and the single triumphs of Conlon and McBride proved enough to edge out the Wildcats 5-4 in the epee class. Duff was the top man for the Irish in that division for the day with four wins and two defeats.
■ o
In the sabre the’ fencing mastery of Jim Graham proved the best for the N.D. cause as he came out on top in five of six matches. Northwestern rebounded from their defeat by the Irish to beat Wisconsin 17-10 to wind up the three-way meet.
LETTERS
(Continued from page 4)
entails hardships and that “a moral Utopia” does not necessarily follow its inception. But have they thought of the rewards of the system—ti-ust, and the development of personal honor. Then perhaps we would not have an idiot bragging of his 90 dishonestly earned while you look at your 72 and wonder when you’ll have to start “the roving eye” routine to keep up. There are two ends to every stick, Mr. Riley— you’ve only showed us one.
Bernard Baute 205 Howard
A Hindu Yogi?
Editor:
I am a small boy 20 years old and I have a question.
I have a lot of friends who read Time and they say they see in Time where they are’ going to give Cardinal Spellman 20 million dollars and they are going to build a new Vatican on the campus of Notre Dame and they are going to replace the Swiss Guards with the varsity football team.
So some of my best friends are' Swiss Guards and I don’t want to see them out of a job so I ask my commanding
RENT THE NEW
I 0W	|
Only the new Gray Magic Royal offers you all these!
finger-flaw Key*! a Magic* Margin!
"Office Typewriter" Keybeard and
Central*! • Speed Spacer!
Up to 3 months' rent
applied on purchase.	;
Forbes Typewriter Co.
Forbes Bldg., 228 W. Colfax
OPPOSITE THE TRIBUNE

32
The Scholastic
I
officer because he is just like a mother to me if this is so and he says, “If you see it in Scholastic it must be so” and so I am asking you is this so?
Also, Justin Bolger isn’t really a Hindu yogi, is he?
Charley Dullea Cpl., USMC Camp Lejeune Globe
■
Editor:
We noticed in Iasi week’s Scholastic that you published the results of a poll on the proposed honor system here on campus. Apparently that eighty-seven per cent verdict will squelch the whole affair. We hope not.
Name tvithhelcl
Editor:
In reference to Columnist Bill Riley, “The Back Page” and your editorial $ entitled “Do you want the Honor System” in the February 8, 1952 issue of Scholastic, I would like to submit for your information a proposed “Honor System for AF ROTC” which I attempted to obtain approval from the University this last September- without success, since the West Point scandal developed about this time.
During summer vacation, this detachment made one hundred and forty inquiries of the Advance Course students in the AF ROT'C Program. Out of the forty replies received, twenty-six were definitely in favor of the’ honor system, thirteen students were undecided, and one was definitely against.
... I might add that I am a West Point graduate and believe that the Honor System is still being backed by the West Point Cadets and always will be.
If the student body at Notre Dame would accept and back an Honor System, they would find that honor was their most prized possession.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Melie J. Coutlee Colonel, USAF PAS&T
/----------EUROPE-
00---------9500
(incl. steamer) Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by America’s largest organization for edu-’ cational travel. Scholarships available.
Ji	Soo Moro—Spend less
Our 19th Year
See your local reproeen* JGSjMffK. 1 Mire or write Mr
0 ■4R Ek STUOtHTS INySMIATIONAL W ■ ■ ^^k TWAVIL ASSOCIATION
---M5FIFTWAVE., NEW YOM 17 * MM HIM
Men’s Shop
circle
THESE
DATES
This can mean your start to an exceptional career. Bell Representatives will be here looking for Engineers, Mathematicians and Physicists who can qualify for positions in long range diversified programs which offer outstanding opportunities to the right men in all fields of engineering-. Make a date NOW to get the complete facts . . . salary, career opportunities, advanced educational plans, and other advantages.
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL THE OFFICE OF WILLIAM R. DOOLEY — PHONE 394
mi iiuni in comm
We don’t say you can get in an evening on the town with what you’ll save on dry cleaning bills when you wear these washable gabardine sportshirts. But you will have extra cigarette and snack money in your pocket. Come down and look them over. They’re smart, long-sleeved, comfortable .. and they’ll double as dress shirts when worn with a tie. Drop in and see our complete line of fine Manhattan men’s apparel.
a
Gabmont Sportshirts
Street I
February 22, 1952
(This is another in the series of stories without morals. More may appear.—Ed.)
The First One
Everything considered, there really wasn’t too much excitement when the first I.B.M. machine matriculated at the University. Oh, there was a great deal of speculation in the more sensational newspapers, which covered the event with more diligence than they had any academic happening since the goldfisheating at Harvard a generation ago. All in all, though, except for a wild celebration at the Thomas Watson home, the news was received with remarkable calm.
There were, of course, the usual disgruntled students who had failed to be admitted and grumbled that the’ machine had marked its own college entrance exam. But the university effectively silenced them by asserting that no student would be denied an education, regardless of race, creed, color or genus.
Ticking' and Whirring;
Breathing and Snoring
And the machine was a good student. The slight ticking and whirring which emanated from its interior was drowned out in the classroom by the heavy breathing and sonorous snoring of its less industrious and weaker classmates. The machine seemed to operate on some power on its own, and was an awesome sight indeed as it lumbered across the •quadrangle on early mornings, heading toward the engineering building for breakfast. It wrote a letter to the student weekly complaining that the building served nothing but low-grade tractor oil, but the editor didn’t publish it.
It (or as the students got to call it, Mark) even went out for football. Although not too effective on defense, Mark was extremely hard to bring down in an open field, and for that matter, in a closed one. Unfortunately, he was forced to resign when the N.C.A.A. insisted that the team trainer, in order to be qualified to treat any injuries that might befall Mark, would have to have a degree in Mechanical Engineering.
Phenomenal Intellectual Capacity
But, like courageous college students of all generations, Mark, since he could not be a player, became a manager. He
By Bill Riley
was, of course, the most efficient and admired of all in the history of that peculiar group. .
I suppose that the worry began when the University announced, afier a few years, that the I.B.M. machines outnumbered the humans in the student body. And, the first graduate machine became a teacher in the department of philosophy. He taught symbolic logic.
Because of his phenomenal (Time-called it machine-like) intellectual capacity, he was invited to become a member of the board • that made up the college entrance examinations. And that was when the real trouble started. The next year, the college boards were composed of almost all mathematical problems. A typical example was: Take 639 to the 353rd power. The student was given 30 seconds to answer each question. As was inevitable, the following year, only machines were admitted to college.
The Distinction SEEMS to Be Inequitable
Would-be students, who were hamp- ered by their humanity, and forced to go into the army, screamed that the process was unfair. The head of the American Council of Education, also called ace, made the following statement to the newspapers: “On the surface, the distinction seems to be inequitable. However, our American colleges are in existence to train the leaders. The leaders will be those with the highest intellectual capacity. Therefore . . . clickclick, whirrr-sputt-sputt-sputt.” His valet plugged him in again, and he continued. “. . . Those with the highest intellectual capacity, measured by the leaders of education, just happen to be newsstudents. (Newsstudents is what the machines, some of them quite sensitive, had taken to call themselves.)
And so it went. In a dispatch from Moscow, the Russians claimed to have invented the thinking machine. Or rather, they were in the process of claiming to do so when the teletype stopped, only to continue a few minutes later with, “correction, repeat, correction on that last line . . . thinking machines were the first to invent the Russians.”
A Human Corrector
It looked pretty much as if it were all up with the humans. But then, when
almost all of them were either maimed oi’ dead from police actions, the unpredictable, but yet inevitable happened. One of the machine-teachers, less industrious than his fellows, hired a human corrector. The uproar was amazing. His fellow-teachers berated him as a radical, and one who would destroy all the traditions of education. His students cried that to humanize education was unmachine-like. But the professor countered with an article which brought out the point that the newsstudent had a under range of expression in an exam that was corrected by a human.
The president of the University made a statement. In it he said: “the human has developed so far that he can now be made use of by intelligent machines in the most important of all processes, that of education. Remember, the human doesn’t really correct these « examinations, he just follows the instructions of the machine.”
Still, it seemed like a dangerous trend.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Vs Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.20
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main	Open Sunday
34
The Scholastic
HOW MANY TIMES A DAY DO YOU INHALE? ' 50?]Bl00?]«[200?]
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT AHSWER IS OVER 200!
A ..
Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING Philip Morris!


PROVED definitely milder . . .
PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand . . .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow ... you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
X PHILIP MORRIS
February 22, 1952
35
>1