The Notre Dame Scholastic
1SCTS. A COPY	May 26
$3.00 THE YEAR	1933
SOUTH SHORE LINE
$^^40 Special Round Trip Rate From ^^1 South Bend to Chicago for
World’s Fair Opening
Saturday, May 27
HOURLY TRAINS DIRECT TO WORLD'S FAIR GATES
Special low fare to A Century of Progress Exposition opening is good on all trains leaving South Bend from 6 p. m. Friday, May 26, to 1 p. m^ Saturday, May 27. Final return limit 11:45 p. m.. Sunday, May 28. Tickets must be purchased before boarding trains.
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
lt*s a pleasure
—to slice them at Coquillard
Notre Dame students are welcome.
Golf and after golf parties.
Food superb.
Coquillard Golf Club
McKinley Ave. and Ironwood Drive
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURA NT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
<	Catering to	:
; NOTRE DAME MEN
:	for over thirty yean
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal .
~	Drop in Any Time.
c
May 26, 1933
One
Why Is The Scholastic A Good Advertising Medium
1	.—It has a guaranteed circulation of over three thousand copies. Every Friday the SCHOLASTIC is delivered to the DOOR of every student.
2	.—It is not only circulated but it is READ. Every issue is an account of campus happenings: News, Features, Sports—everything of interest to students.
3	.—Your advertisements are placed next to interesting reading matter in the section of universal appeal—Sports.
4	.—Our representatives, who know students and their desires, will assist you in *planning your campaign.
5	.—Finally, our rates are so low that the smallest business can afford to contact this live market.	_
A call to 3-1121 will bring a representative.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Two
The Scholastic
May 26, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ^^1	I	1 I- . B .E nt er e d as second-class
lished weekly at the Univer- I	I J	matter at Notre Dame, In-
sity of Notre Dame. Manu- | ||W£. I lUHw	VwlwlW* diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to — .	~	' TZ. ,	T,.	.,	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubn- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October 3,1917, cations Office, Main Building.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News Editor JAMES BYRNE................Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.............Ass'stant Netos Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI...............ROBERT	ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL	WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN.	WALKER
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
.	Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.......College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff fred Macbeth albert l. mcguff JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD...Features Editor LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH....Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
JOHN F. SWEENEY
Volume LXVI.•MAY 26, 1933 No. 28
SUMMARIES	COMING EVENTS
£
NEWS
University Players Primed for Initial Showing of “Richelieu” on Monday Evening........................ 5
Commencement Exercises Will Be Held in N. D. Gymnasium ......................................... 5
Eleven of Living Laetare Winners Will Attend Golden
Jubilee at Commencement.....................—— 6
Complete Glee Club Itinerary for Summer Months Announced...................................-..... 6
Fitting Exercises Will Mark Memorial Day at N. D... 7.
Band Concludes Open Concert Series.......—....   8
McGahren Named New K. of C. Lecturer for Next
Year .........................................11
Lencioni and Lawyer Take Bow..................  12
.	FEATURES	’
“Men About Campus”: Tighe Woods and F. Granger
Weil ........................................    8
Washington Hall-Antics Perturb “Voice Readers”..... 9
News of the Week................ "....:......J....10
A ’36er Gives His Impressions ’ of the 1933 Commence- .
ment Program ................ .-...........     15
Behind the1 Scenes of: “Richelieu”.............  .16
What the Inflation Talk is all About..............17
SPORTS .
Golf team to enter both National and State intercol-
legiates ...'..................................  20
Michigan Normal is winner, over Notre Dame tennis team ......................:....................   21
Track team outscores Pittsburgh in last dual meet of
season ...... ........1.......................   21
Freshman" and Morrissey win interhall softball title.23
Baseball team buthits Ohio State to win, 12-4....  23
Introducing Arnold Seidl.........................  24
Splinters from the Press Box.........................25
On Down the Line.................................  32
FRIDAY, May 26.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., general staff, 6:45 p. m., Editorial Offices, Ave Maria Building; Baseball, Purdue, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 27.—Golf, Indiana State Intercollegiate tournament, Terre Haute; Track, Indiana State Intercollegiate meet, Indianapolis; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 28.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Benediction, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:30 p. m.,
MONDAY, May 29.—Baseball, Wisconsin, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.; “Richelieu,” gymnasium, 8:15 p. m.; Semester Examinations begin.
TUESDAY, May 30.—Baseball, Wisconsin, Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.; Semester Examinations; Memorial Day Services, 8:00 a. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 31.—May Devotions, for upperclassmen 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Hall, 7:45 p. m„ Sacred Heart , Church; Semester Examinations.
THURSDAY, June 1.—Semestei' Examinations.
FRIDAY, June 2.—Alumni Golf Tournament, William J. Burke Memorial Course; President’s Address to Seniors, Washington Hall, 12:45 p. m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Alumni, Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.; Band Concert, Quadrangle, 7:00 p. m.; “Richelieu,” Gymnasium, 8:15 p. m.; Track, Central Intercollegiate Conference Outdoor Meet, Milwaukee. .
SATURDAY, June 3.—Last visit to Sacred Heart Church for seniors, 9:30 a. m".; Class Day Exercises, Washington Hall, 10:00 a. m.; Baseball, Michigan State,'Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.; Alumni Banquet, East Dining Hall, 6:00 p. m.; Glee Club Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00
/ p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
By Tighe Woods
O NE of the best things about a year book is its general usefulness. Not only does it offer an opportunity to spend valuable time which otherwise might be foolishly spent in studying for examinations, but its cover is just the right shade to blend in with the chintz curtains of the sun porch. That sums up the attitude of present seniors towards the Dome, but its editors need not • be down-hearted for the seniors are merely following an old tradition. Next year you will be just as critical and, possibly, find more faults. As for the present seniors, don’t gripe if you can’t find any humor in the satire section, because it is a satire on satire and, of course, is not supposed to be funny and . . . well, that is getting too deep foi’ us!
V
X HE art exhibit at the University library clearly shows that Notre Dame does not suffer from a lack of talent in the field of fine arts. The majority of these men are seniors, and will be wondering what to do with their talent next year. Perhaps some of them suffer from the delusion that to turn their art into commercial channels is to prostitute their God-given talents. They are very foolish. They forget that real art is an exchange of feeling, and that there isn’t much exchange of feeling at fashionable exhibits where would-be aesthetic dowagers gush over their teacups and fawn on the latest young modernist. If they can get out and bring their art home to the people, the masses who can neither afford the time nor the money to attend exhibits, but feel the thrill of a thing of beauty in a really artistic poster, then they are employing their talents to perform a good.
V
^^OME of the seniors have been looking for jobs already, a good many more are going to become very discouraged before another month passes. That is one of the worst things about a depression. It is toughest on those who have never had to weather a storm. Many will ask the
question, “Was it all worth-while?” Only the very foolish will give in and say that it wasn’t. The others will realize that while they may have to struggle for two or three years in poverty, such as they never knew before, and while they are pounding hot pavements only to hear the familiar, “We’ll keep your name on our files!” at the same time they have something that no amount of suffering can take away from them: a college education.
V
ASHINGTON HALL, that old lady of many moods, is undergoing a bit of plastic surgery again. This time it is a new front entrance. In the dim future, when another ice age has receded and archaeologists dig up Washington Hall, they are going to have an awful time trying to place it in its proper period. It will all depend on what corner first comes to light. One corner would put it in the same period with the twelve-story skyscrapers of the naughty nineties, another would place it in the thirteenth-century France with the cathedrals, but we can’t imagine what they’ll do with it if they discover the ping-pong tables in Carroll “rec.”
V
ELL, this is the end — and what of it! We’ll let the editorial department shed the tears of parting and join the Monday Morning Headache Club in saying, “It was fun while it lasted!” A lot of you didn’t like this page and some made the fact known. We don’t intend to take the Dawes “to-hell-with-all-trouble-makers” attitude with those who didn’t. Adverse criticism is some kind of a compliment anyway. We won’t bother wishing everybody a pleasant summer because, as far as the seniors are concerned, that would be carrying irony a little too far. However we would like to offer a parting prayer for our successor,— that enough things may happen on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, and Mondays so that he will never have to write a paragraph about keeping off the grass.
May 26, 1933
Five
‘RICHELIEU’ PREMIER TO BE ON MONDAY EVENING
MASS, BACCALAUREATE, AWARDING OF DEGREES, AND ADDRESS TO BE IN GYM
Cast Prepared For Its Initial Performance.
<
I
“Richelieu,” final production of the University Theatre, will make its debut for the student body next Monday evening, May 29th, at 8:15 on the large, newly-constructed stage in the Gymnasium. In addition to this distinction, Professor F. W. Kelly, Director, and Head of the University Theatre, has promised a modernized version of the original stage setting.
Repeat Play On Friday
Following its “first night” the play will be given on Friday, June 2nd, at 8:15 as part of Notre Dame’s 89th Annual Commencement Program. It is expected that Governor McNutt of Indiana, Reverend Charles Coughlin, John McCormack, Alfred E. Smith, and other notables, present for the Commencement exercises, will attend the second performance of “Richelieu,” The public is invited for either night.
Early this week, Professor Kelly made a few changes in his cast and completed the casting of characters from the large group which has been working for the past three weeks. Joseph Mansfield will play the role of Louis XIII, monarch of France; Howard Fischer is to play Gaston, Duke de Orleans, brother of Louis; Clermont, a courtier, will be played by Tom Proctor. John Masterson, Hugh Fitzgerald, William Hoffert, Francis McGahren, Robert Ward, and Andrew Hufragel have been added to the group of soldiers, conspirators, courtiers and secretaries.
Splendid Lines
“Richelieu” is replete with splendid lines. For example, there is Joseph’s “See, my liege—see thro’ plots and counterplots—thro’ gain and loss —thro’ glory and disgrace—among the plains, where passionate discord rears Eternal Babel—still the holy stream of human happiness glides on!” And the Cardinal says to him, “There is One above who sways the harmonious mystery of the world ev’n better than prime ministers!”
The world is about to slay itself in a spasm of righteous indignation— Arthur Branders.
Mansfield, Van Huisseling And Kennedy, Honored
By “Scholastic” Editors
Edward Mansfield, Edward Van Huisseling, and William Kennedy were chosen as the three outstanding members of the news, sports, and feature staffs of The Scholastic by the editors. The announcement was made at the last regular staff meeting by the editor-in-chief.
Suitable awards were made to the winners. The honor was bestowed on the students on a basis of ability and accomplishment on the various staffs for the year 1932-33.
Mansfield is a junior in Arts and Letters while Van Huisseling and Kennedy are sophomores in the same college.
Italian Club Sponsors
Movies on Fascist Progress
On Wednesday afternoon, May 17, there was shown in Washington Hall a five-reel Italian movie, “Anno Non-no, or the Ninth Year of the Fascist Era,” under the auspices of the Italian Club. The movie, which was filmed by the Italian government, depicted the economic development of Italy during the nine years of the Fascist regime. Included also was a reel presenting II Duce delivering a brief eulogy of Anita Garibaldi, wife of one of Italy’s foremost patriots and military heroes, Giuseppe Garibaldi, during a memorial celebration in her honor at Rome.
The production was obtained through Mr. Giovanni Rossi, Chancellor of the Royal Italian Consulate-General at Chicago, Hl., and Judge Louis Senese, Jr., of Melrose Park, Ill. Judge Sense lectured during the presentation.
Examination Marks Will Be
Issued First Part of July
According to an announcement to the faculty members, the examination marks must be in the office of the Director of Studies by June 10.
These marks will probably be sent from the Director of Studies office by the latter part of June or the first part of July.
EXERCISES BEGIN FRIDAY
Rev. Charles E. Coughlin Will Give Address; Bishop Noll
To Say Mass.
The Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9:00 a. m., Sunday morning, June 4th, will be celebrated by His Excellency, John Francis Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, on an altar placed on the recently constructed stage in the University Gymnasium. The Reverend Charles E. Coughlin, Pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower, Royal Oak, Michigan, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon at this Mass.
With this announcement the general program for the 89th Annual Commencement of the University, honoring the class of 1933, reaches a final form. The Mass, Baccalaureate, Awarding of Degrees, and Commencement Address by the Honorable Paul V. McNutt, Governor of Indiana, as well as the production “Richelieu” are all scheduled to take place on the gymnasium stage. The construction of this stage in the gymnasium assures larger audiences for the exercises.
Full Programs For Seniors
Graduating students are to be present for the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell’s address, the last visit to the Sacred Heart Church, Class Day Exercises, The Alumni Banquet, the Solemn Pontifical Mass, Baccalaureate, and Blessing of the Senior Flag, and for the Awarding of Degrees and the Commencement Address.
The remaining time on the program for the three days of June 2, 3, and 4, will be taken up by luncheons, concerts, athletics, alumni meetings and banquets, and class reunions. The President of the University, and Professor Clarence E. Manion, president. of the Alumni association, are expected to address gatherings of the Alumni members.
The awarding of medals and prizes, the class oration by James Boyle, the class ode by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., and the Valedictory by Michael J. Leding will take place during the Class Day Exercises in Washington Hall on Saturday, June 3 at 10:00 a. m.
The Scholastic
g______________________
Eleven Laetare Medalists To Be Present At Jubilee
GLEE CLUB ITINERARY ANNOUNCED IN DETAIL
COMPLETE PROGRAM
Presentation To Be Made In Gym Sunday Evening; Smith To Act As Chairman.
By Thomas G. Proctor .	.
Eleven of the sixteen living Laetare medalists are returning to the University of Notre Dame next week for the Golden Jubilee of the award and for the 89th Commencement Exercise of the University, These are: The Honorable Alfred E. Smith, statesman, Margaret Anglin, actress, Dr. Stephan J. Maher, tuberculosis specialist, James J. Walsh, physician and author, James J. Phelan, business man, Charles P. Neill, economist, Charles D. Maginnis, architect, Jack J. Spalding, lawyer, Edward N. Hurley, business man, Joseph Scott, lawyer, and Albert F. Zahm, scientist.
Elizabeth Nourse, artist, winner of the medal in 1921, who is in Paris at the present time, and the other four living medalists, Mary Merrick, Agnes Repplier, Lawrence Flick, and Frederick Kenkel, are unable to attend the Jubilee.	.
Presentation At Eight O’clock
The complete program for the presentation of the 1933 Laetare Medal, on Sunday, June 4, at 8 p. m. in the gymnasium, was drawn up this week and is as follows: Processional, University Band; Addresses: “The Laetare Medal,” Dr. James J. Walsh, LL.D.; “The Women Medalists,” Margaret Anglin; Presentation by the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University; Response by John McCormack; Recessional, University Band.
His Excellency, the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, will preside over this presentation; the Honorable Alfred E. Smith has accepted the chairmanship of the occasion.
This 50th presentation of the famed . Laetare Award to distinguished Catholic men and women of the Lay Church will honor all the recipients of the Medal, living and dead. Honor to them: 1883, John G. Shea, historian; ’84, Patrick C. ’Kech, architect; ’85, (Continued on Page 15)
Military Mass, Parade, Visit to Cemetery Mark Memorial Day Program
A two-hour Memorial Day program for the University was announced this week for next Tuesday, May 30, beginning with a Military Field Mass at the War Memorial door (east entrance) of Sacred Heart church, at 8:00 a. m. and concluding with the ceremony of “returning the colors” on the Administration building plaza, with the University band playing the “Star Spangled Banner.”
Band To Lead Parade
A parade to the Community cemetery, led by the chaplains and the University Band, will follow the Mass, with a military detail commanded by Captain Robert B. Riordan, visiting veterans, the Notre Dame Reserve Officers’ Club, students and visitors marching in that order.
The complete program is as follows:
8:00 a. m.—(Central Standard Time) Military Field Mass at War Memorial, (East Entrance Sacred Heart Church) — Celebrant, Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., regimental sergeant major, 320 Train Hq., 95th Div., World War.
8:30 a. m.—Address—Rev. Frederick T. McKeon, C.S.C., Chaplain < 48th Infantry, U.S.A., World War.
8:45 a. m. — Parade to Community cemetery: Chaplains; Notre Dame Band.— Director, Joseph J. Casa-santa; Military Detail — Captain Robert B. Riordan, 489th Field Artillery; Color Guard and Firing Squad—Detachments from Co. D, 152nd Infantry (South Bend); Visiting Veterans; Reserve Officers’ Club of Notre Dame — James C. McDevitt, Commandant; Students and Visitors.
9:15 a. m.—Decoration of Graves; Prayer for Nation’s Dead — Rev. Joseph A. Heiser, C.S.C., Captain Chaplain, 489th Field Artillery; Salute — Firing Squad; "Taps” — Bugler.	.
9:45 a. m. — Returning; the Colors Main Quadrangle; “Star Spangled Banner”—N. D. Band.
Tour Begins in New York and Ends in Chicago.
Dressed in an ensemble of tan and white, the University of Notre Dame Glee Club will leave the Campus June 5, to begin their 14-week concert tour. A special two-car section on the New York Central Lines will be the headquarters of the traveling squad.
Posters showing- the individual members comprising the group have been made. Each gleester is pictured with the Main Building as a background. Prof. Casasanta centers the group.
During the week starting June 9, the ' Glee Chib will give its first concert in the Capitol Theater, New York city. The week starting with June 16, the club will be in Loew’s Fox Theater, Washington, D. C. From June 23 to June 30, the gleesters will be at the Century Theater, Baltimore, Md.
To Make Movie
From June 30 to July 7, the Club will be at the Earl Theater, Philadelphia, Pa., and from the seventh of July to the fourteenth in Loew’s Newark Theater, Newark, N. J. The following week, July 14-21, the concerts will be continued in the Metropolitan Theater, Brooklyn, N. Y.
From July 21 to July 28, Loew’s State Theater, New York, will be visited. Following this, a motion picture short of the Glee Club will be made in New York. ’This will take place during the week of July 31.
From July 28 to August 4, the gleesters will present their program at Loew’s Orpheum, Boston, Mass. From August 4 to August 11, is a split week between Norfolk and Richmond, Va. The subsequent week will be spent in Loew’s Theater, Jersey City. August 18 to August 25, the singers will travel to Detroit, Mich., where they will sing in the Michigan Theater.
The last week in August will be spent in Cleveland, Ohio, where the club ■will appear either at Loew’s or the Palace Theater. From Sept. 1 to Sept. 8, another split week between Youngstown and Akron, Ohio, is scheduled. The last week on the itinerary will be spent in Chicago where the club will sing at the Chicago Theater.
Seven
May 26, 1933 c	-------------
TO DEDICATE WICKETT ART COLLECTION JUNE 6
Father James J. French Celebrates Golden Jubilee
Famed Wood Carvings Feature Of “Room of the Popes.”
By Edward Mansfield
The formal dedication of the Frederick H. Wickett Memorial art colt lection of the Wightman art gallery on June 6 will mark the addition of another group of art treasures to those already in the possession of the University. Since the new room will be opened on June 1, five days before the formal dedication, campus visitors during the 89th commencement will have the privilege of viewing the rare treasures made available through the generosity of Mrs. Frederick H. Wickett, of Chicago, who esablished the “Room of the Popes,” as it is called, as a memorial to her late husband.
The new “Room of the Popes” is located on the third floor of the University library, south wing, and is being arranged under the direction of Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, who suc-,	ceeded the Reverend Gregory Gerrer,
O.S.B., as director of the Wightman I	Memorial art gallery this year.
;	Five Wood Carving
L
r	Most of the pieces of the new group
j	are outstanding examples of tho art
i	of wood carving. Dr. Goldblatt holds
>	that these articles compose the finest
;	group of wood sculptures in this
!	country.
i	Viewed from the standpoint of his-
i	torical association and splendid exe-
।	cution of details, the large fireplace
f	of wood, with its oil painting above
the mantel shelf of Ceres, the god-5	dess’ of agriculture, is perhaps out?	standing in the new room. Reaching
'	almost to the ceiling, its dark, an-
j	tique coloring, and elaborate carving,
J	together with the rich shading of the
J	painting, form a composition of beau-
L	ty seldom found. Dr. Goldblatt has
?	not reached a definite decision as to
|	the original owner of the fireplace,
।	but at this point in his exhaustive
I	study into its history, he believes
|	that it was once a possession of Saint
f	Francisco Borgia II, often termed
“the second founder of the Jesuit
|	order.”
I	A table carved for Pope Clement
XII is'included in the Wickett memorial group. Black, heavy, and of
r	■
Bendix Loans Tapestries To Notre Dame Library For Five Month Period
A French tapestry group belonging to the Vincent Bendix collection will be exhibited in the University art gallery from June to November, the five-month period of the Chicago Century of Progress art exhibition.
The French tapestries will be here as a loan in a special room in the art gallery, and it is hoped that the arranging of the unusually beautiful work will be completed in time to be opened for campus visitors during Commencement.
top surface, the table is truly a sculpture in wood, for all surfaces of the legs and side panels are completely covered with splendid carving.
A small four-poster bed with a canopy, its color and carving in harmony with the other pieces in the room, is perhaps the article which attracts more immediate attention as one enters the “Room of the Popes.” As in the case of the fireplace, its original possessor is not definitely determined as yet, but the present belief is that it once belonged to Cosmo de Medici.
Coronation Is German Piece
/ Bids by the Kensington Museum, ' London, for the table of Clement XII and a carving representing the Coronation of the Blessed Virgin were refused by Mrs. Wickett. The carving of the Coronation is a German work.
A Florentine chandelier hangs from the ceiling of the room, and is in perfect keeping with the other articles in it. Two Venetian lanterns, four French 16th century carvings— two pedestals, a saint’s figure, St. Anne with ’ the Blessed Virgin and the Holy Infant — a figure of St. Michael the Archangel, and a pair of angels carved from wood complete the examples of this art of early master-craftsman which is seldom done now on its former large scale.
Some valuable paintings are included in the new Wickett collection, as well as several tapestry pieces; among the latter is an English tapestry approximately 300 years old.
SINGS SOLEMN MASS
Hospital Chaplain Observes 50th Anniversary Of His Ordination On Thursday.
By Robert Dillon
Reverend James J. French, C.S.C., celebrated his Sacerdotal Golden Ju-biele yesterday with a Solemn High Mass at 9:00 o’clock in Sacred Heart Heart Church. Very Reverend Thomas
Reverend James J. French, C.S.C. Fifty golden years.
Irving, C.S.C., Assistant-General of the Congregatoin of Holy Cross, was the Deacon; Reverend Joseph Boyle, C.S.C., of St. Thomas’s College, St. Paul, Minnesota, was the Sub-Deacon; and Reverend William R. Connor, C.S.C., Chaplain of St. Mary’s College, was the Master of Ceremonies.
Father French, now chaplain of St-Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend, was Vice-President and Director of Studies in the University from 1893 until 1905. During the greater part of his years as a priest he was prominent in the affairs of the University, being a member in the Provincial Council (Continued on Page 14)
Eight
The Scholastic
MEN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
BAND CONCLUDES OPEN AIR CONCERT PROGRAMS
By J. D. Porterfield
“No, there are no more bay windows in Walsh.” And the window slammed down on our inquisitive nose. (Haaaah! Were we mortified!) We wandered forth disconsolate and drowned our troubles in a Jziggler. But brightening up on page 23, we wandered down the hall and finally managed to sneak past the doorman at 123 Walsh, to gaze at what we had missed.
It was a critical minute. Roommate Ed Moriarty was trying to cheat at solitaire while F. Granger Weil was putting on a sweater over his head. We picked up the ace and sat down on the clothes-press—pardon us, chair. And the crisis passed unnoticed, as Weil explained that in spite of the overwhelming opinions of the neighbors, the room had been cleaned up for a week-end recently.
Tennis, Fishing, Poetry
Extemporaneously, he admitted that he was an Economic major, but that his major issue of today was a request for more tennis courts on the campus. One thing led to another, and finally he admitted that fishing and tennis were his peculiar hobbies, and that writing poetry was his vice. Score, thirty-love.
There are two weaknesses in his life: a certain one in Port Huron, Michigan, his home port of calls; a desire to sleep peaceably sometime until awaking without outside help; and blondes. (If that makes two, it’s our weakness also.)
Granger is an active member of the local K. C. Council, and an associate editor of The Scholastic. He indulges occasionally in hunting, but passes over a certain portion of his life very hurriedly when the cognomen, “Barney Oldfield,” is mentioned. Pressed for particulars, he mumbled something about Doul and Munn and nobody being hurt, and returned to a panegyric he was creating on the joys of fishing. This all may fit in some place with the fact that he is leaving shortly, waiting only for a few exams, for a trip into Michigan with the same two persons in pursuit of fish, but he will not be allowed to drive the car. Is there a crystalgazer among you three readers?
Outside of his roommate, Ed Moriarty, “one of the finest guys on the (Continued on Page 12)
By James T. Fitzpatrick
Nine years, gentle reader, nine whole years. If you are familiar with the significance of 20,000 years in Sing Sing, consider nine years at
Tighe Woods
The pen is mightier than the stethescope.
Notre Dame and, although there isn’t much novelty about the place any more so far as he is concerned, Mr. Woods is anything but blase. After four years with the Minims and a sojourn at St. Mary’s, Kansas, for a like period, Tighe matriculated at Notre Dame as a freshman five years ago. Five-year men, as a rule, are reticent in explaining just why they are five-year men, so I avoided it in my talk with Woods as taboo.
Medicine To Journalism
Woods encountered some difficulty in choosing his career. He began his college work in pre-med, but after a prolonged and disastrous struggle with chemistry, in which our hero was put to rout some two or three times, he abandoned medicine for journalism, where he is indubitably in his element. Publicity in this field is his chief interest. It is difficult to conceive of his timing a person’s pulse and smelling of iodoform, but it is easy to imagine him talking the American public into using Zilch’s Lemon Flavored Hydrophobia Tooth Paste (“It foams in your mouth”), or convincing the local student body that the Mono-(Continued on Page 30)
Eight Selections Included in Repertoire.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta directed the University band in a concert from the porch of the Main Building, Sunday evening at 6:30. This, the last in a series of open air concerts, attracted an unusually large audience. With much satisfaction to the listeners no amplifying system was used during the half hour program.
The band offered the following repertoire:
1.	Marches
a.	“The U. S. Field Artillery March,” by Sousa.
b.	“On the Campus,” by Goldman.
2.	Processional March
“Pomp and Chivalry,” by Roberts.
3.	Motet
“Ave Maria,” by Bach-Gounod.
4.	Cornet Solo, played by Paul Guar-neiri.
“Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms,” by De Witt.
5.	Military March
“Pomp and Circumstance,” by Elgar.
6.	Selection
“The Song of the Drum,” by Kern.
7.	“University Grand March,” by Goldman.
8.	“Victory March,” by Shea.
R. T. FitzSimon To Head
Engineers* Club For *33-34
The officers of the Engineers’ Club for next year, elected at a special meeting last Friday night, May 19, are Robert T. FitzSimon, of San Antonio, Texas, senior next year in Chemical Engineering, president; Theodore Hiegel, of Conway, Arkansas, an incoming senior in Mechanical Engineering, vice-president; Carlos Yriberry, from Arequipa, Peru, a senior civil engineer next term, secretary; Walter Dupray, Mt. Clemens, Michigan, a fourth senior, of the Electrical Engineering department, treasurer; junior secretary, Vincent Murphy, of Cleveland, Ohio, varsity track man, and at present a sophomore in Electrical Engineering.
May 26, 1933
Nine
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL HOLDS LAST MEETING
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
President McGahren Thanks Members for Work.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be zised upon request.
By John Walker
Tuesday night, May 23, the St. Vincent de Paul Society held its last meeting of the school year. Frank McGahren, acting president, speaking in the name of the members, wishes to express his thanks to the student body, who have made it possible to distribute over 3,000 magazines to institutions for the sick. He also thanks those who contributed old clothes which aided greatly in assisting the poor, and those who contributed to the mite boxes placed in the various recreation rooms.
Plans have been made for the continuation of the distribution of magazines by the members who will attend summer school. Sunday morning, May 28, members will go to the St. Joseph county infirmary to assist the St. Patrick’s conference in getting things ready for Mass.
Keep Record Of Work
The society is making a scrapbook of clippings and special work done so that the work of the society in the future may be based on the first charities of the local conference. The book will be donated by Mr. Mc-Aloon and will be kept by Mr. Bracke.
Plans for next year were discussed so that the work of the society can start as soon as the school year opens.
At a meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society' last week, Tuesday, May 16, Mr. Joseph Hoerstman of Mishawaka gave a talk on Christian charity. The theme of his talk was the impossibility of salvation without charity. Mr. Hoerstman is the president of the St. Joseph conference, Mishawaka. Father Korn, 15 members from St. Joseph’s conference, Mishawaka, and three members from St. • Monica’s parish, attended the meeting as guests of the local conference.
At no time in modern history has national propaganda been so active and vocal as at this moment, and at no time have its effects been so manifest in so many parts of the world.—Hugh Bailie.
Raucous Laughter for L. S.
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Ed: (that isn’t a pun)
A Mr. L. S. in last week’s “Voice” flays what he terms ‘social misfits” (i. e., the student body) because their appreciative sense of the cinema is starving while his thrives. To quote: “puerile wh i s 11 i n g and jeering” prompts him to say that “any normal person who attended the “Cavalcade” production of last Friday evening must have left the Hall with the feeling that he missed about half of the meaning of the picture.” Far be it from me to congratulate the abnormal persons 1
I believe L. S.’s fault is a misjudgment of values. The moving picture is essentially a moronic phenomenon. How can we expect art in a vehicle which, in the words of George Jean Nathan, “removes color from painting, acting from drama, dimension from architecture, the aesthetic from literature,” and, so far as most audiences are concerned, clear audibility from speech.
P. T. Barnum developed his circus until it was a masterpiece of a particular type of showmanship, but that type has no place in Carnegie Hall or the Chicago Civic Opera. Neither has the motion picture any place in the realms of art. So long as the talking picture sticks to burlesque and slapstick, well and good, but when Greta Garbo is considered a second Eleanora Duse, and a third rate Hollywood scenarist a successor to Henrik Ibsen, the situation becomes ludicrous. All we may expect of Hollywood is to remove obscenity from films and to cease attempting to encroach upon art.
In re “Cavalcade”: does a woman becoming hysterical and making funny faces imply fine acting? Does a drunkard being funny over a fire wagon instill pathos? Does a cabaret girl’s rendition of a blues song create an impression that life is a futile gesture? My answer to these questions is a raucous laugh. (Such as is heard in Washington Hall on Saturday nights.)
The “jeering” that is so disconcert
ing to L. S. is as music to my ears. It proves that the student body is discriminating and possesses a sense of humor as regards stupid faces and still more stupid cavortings which aren’t pseudo - acting. Washington Hall conduct on Saturday night is a healthy manifestation—Apius loosening the ring from his nose. . . .
With very best,
' J. T. F.
More Washington Hall
Dear Editor:
Although I was not in sympathy with the attitude some of the students took at the showing of “Cavalcade,” I think I can appreciate their point of view. The sound effects that night were miserable. '
Whether the machine operating in Washington Hall is incapable of reproducing the high pitched tones of the English accented voices, or if it was not operating properly, I don’t know. At any rate those who sat through the conglomeration of noises could not possibly be expected to appreciate such a splendid picture under such adverse conditions.
Fortunately, I saw the picture when it was downtown. Otherwise, I am sure I would have been unable to enjoy the highly significant scenes.
Sincerelv,
'	F. K.
On “Dome” Critics
Dear Editor:
The Scholastic should be commended for the stand it has taken on the Juggler. As you say it is a big step forward in local journalism.
It is indeed unfortunate that you have not a few more issues in which to conduct a campaign against those cynical few who voice their disapproval of the Dome. As always, the majority feel that the Dome is a very good year book. But the few who do not feel that way are rather loud in their criticisms.
Perhaps they didn’t get their pictures in the Dome.
Sincerely,
. J. W.
Ten
The Scholastic
i
WRANGLERS CLOSE YEAR WITH FORMAL BANQUET
Fr. Cavanaugh Speaks; Install Sandusky as President.
By Louis Hruby
With seventeen members and their chaplain, Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., present, the Wranglers installed Arthur Sandusky as president of the society for 1933-34, at the formal banqeut held at the La Salle Hotel last Wednesday evening. The occasion marked the termination of activities of the honorary forensic activity society for the closing school year. James Boyle was the retiring president.
Boyle, in his final official address as president, asked the members to maintain the zest and energy that characterized the success of his administration. At this point in the proceedings Sandusky introduced the leave-taking senior members, who spoke briefly. They expressed their reluctance to bid farewell, and reiterated Boyle’s advice to the remaining members to continue the splendid work of this year.
Fr. Cavanaugh Gives Advice
Father Cavanaugh was the principal speaker of the evening, and although his talk was more or less of a general nature, he brought home two significant points to the Wranglers.
The first was, in essence, a caution and it was directed to a subject in which the Wranglers are vitally interested, namely, public speaking. Briefly, he advised them to take particular care, when, in the presentation of a speech, they narrated stories that tended towards a jocular vein. “Once you tell a story which is yours’, it then becomes the possession of all the receptive ears present. Avoid its use from then on.”
Then, branching off to an entirely new topic, he repeated an admonition he had made at a previous banquet of the society this eyar. “Remember these two things,” he said. “You are members of an organization which professes to stimulate education. The truly educated man never flaunts his superiority in that regard, but shrouds it in a cloak of modesty and humility. Remember, too, that as Wranglers you have formed an acquaintance with the men in your group, which is an inestimable asset to success.” .
News of the Week
By George Leyes
The basic idea of the Roosevelt administration according to those who interpret his policies is a new sense of duty of the State to the individual and to industry. The underlying motive in all legislation passed so far shows a departure from an individualistic laissez fairs policy to a national, planned economy, and a humanizing of the government by a unification of national effort for the common good and new needs of the people—the change from an old to a new order.
New hope is held for the world economic conference after the spirit of cooperation exhibited by Europe in agreeing to an anti-war pact designed to last ten years. In general the pact is a restatement of previous accords for international collaboration, mainly the Kellog-Briand peace pact, the League of Nations covenant, and the agreement signed last December at Geneva for non-resort to force. The world does not lack for plans, proposals or programs. The existing agreements would be more than adequate to insure peace if the nations would make an honest attempt to carry out the programs already formulated.
Incomes and gasoline will take a fresh tax to raise §220,000,000 to service the Treasury borrowings for the new public works program of §3,300,000,000. It is going to be hard to convince the small income-tax payer to nay after it has been disclosed that J. P. Morgan and company paid no income taxes during 1931 and 1932.
Even the most pessimistic are beginning to admit that the cc untry is well on its way to recovery. The last two months have shown an unmistakable day by day improvemnt, for the first time since 1929. Mr. Roosevelt is getting most of the credit for the return of good times since the change occurred within two weeks after he. came into office. Many attribute the upturn to the new confidence taken by business men, inspired by the leadership of the president.
NEW LIBRARY BOOKS LISTED BY LIBRARIAN
Philosophy, Economics And History Among Subjects.
Contained in the new list of books received by the University of Notre Dame Library this week are books of Philosophy, History, Economics, and Advertising. This list includes the last books to be received before the close of the semester.
Under Philosophy and Psychology is a book entitled Six Theories of Mind by Charles William Morris. Professor Raymond Wood Sellars, of Northwestern University, is the author of another philosophic treatise, The Philosophy of Physical Realism.
On the history list is the new book by Lawrence Wilson Neff, entitled Race Relations at Close Range. Of Economic nature is a new work on technocracy, Toivards Technocracy, by Graham Allen Laing.
In the advertising group, George Burton Hotchkiss’, An Outline of Advertising is given. These books have been placed on circulation by Miss Lawrence, assistant librarian.
Professor Bartholomew Announces Engagement
Paul C. Bartholomew, Professor in the College of Arts and Letters, announced his engagement this week to Miss Mary Agnes Carey, of Salem, Ohio. The wedding ceremony will take place on June 13th in St. Paul’s Catholic Church, Salem.
Following the marriage the couple intend to go to Mountain Lodge in the East for some time, returning to Evanston, Illinois for the summer session of Northwestern University. Mr. and Mrs. Bartholomew will take up residence in South Bend next fall.
Mr. Bartholomew graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1929. Miss Carey attended the Academy of the Immaculate Conception at Mt. Marie, Ohio.
GRAT1AS
The Scholastic extends its appreciation to the capable personnel of the Ave Maria printing office for the splendid cooperation given this year. The brothers and lay workers alike were ever dependable.
May 26, 1933
Eleven
N’GAHREN IS CHOSEN NEW K. OFC. LECTURER
Kennedy Will Edit “Santa Maria” Next Year.
By Michael Weidl
Francis J. McGahren, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed to the office of Lecturer of the local Knights of Columbus council. This appointment along with three others were announced by William L. Sexton, Grand Knight-elect for the scholastic year of 1933-’34. McGahren has been a Knight since his Freshman year at the University and during that time has served on various committees, such as the house committee, the entertainment, communion breakfast committee, and the Knights of Columbus formal committee.
Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., Chaplain of Council No. 1477 during the past year, has been reappointed to carry on his duties for the ensuing year. Father Reynolds, along with being the spiritual adviser of the Knights, assists them in material matters as well.
Eli Abraham Retains Post
For the third successive year, Eli Abraham, a junior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed to the office of financial secretary. Before coming to Notre Dame, Abraham directed the active council of the Knights of Columbus, Niles, Ohio, in the capacity of Grand Knight. Under Grand Knight James Collins, ’32, and present Grand Knight John Cahill, Abraham has cared for the entire financial business of the council.
The Santa Maria, one of the quarterly publications of the University and the only university publication in its field, will be edited by J. Walter Kennedy, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Kennedy will succeed Fred Beck-lenberg. This year the Santa Maria departed from the standard set up in 1931-’32 when it was published in the form of a yearbook. Next year the publication will again appear as a quarterly.
Although appointed recently, these officers will not assume active duty until the beginning of the school year in September. They will be installed with the other elected officers. The offices of Lecturer, Financial Sec-
EDITOR
Louis H. Hruby
Cleveland, Ohio, sophomore in the College of Commerce, who was named to the editorship of the 1934 “Dome” by the Faculty Board of Publications.
Patricians Meet And Elect
Officers For Coming Year
The Notre Dame Patricians Club held a short meeting in the Classics room of the Law Building Tuesday evening, at which they elected their officers for the next scholastic year. Richard Bauman received the presidency of the organization while Ray Brett was the choice for the secretary’s office. Both men are sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters.
N. D. Akron Club Elects George Moloney President
The Akron Club at a meeting held on Monday, May 22, elected new officers for the school year of 1933-’34. As a result of these elections, George Moloney will take over the president’s post. Other officers elected were, Arthur Conley, vice-president, William Burkehardt, secretary. .
The retiring officers are John Doran, president, Arthur Dutt, vicepresident, and Michael Staley, secretary and treasurer.
retary, the editorship of the Santa Maria, and that of the Chaplain are the only offices attained by appointment, the others are by election.
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS SPEND TUESDAY AT N.D.
Fr. Mulcaire, Prof. Manion to Give Addresses on N. D.
Tuesday, May 23, the University ■ was host to approximately 700 high school pupils of Northern Indiana. The students, who make an annual tour to some spot of historical interest, arrived on the campus at about 2:30 p. m. They were escorted to Washington Hall where a program for their entertainment had been arranged.
Prof. Manion Tells N. D. History
Father Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, spoke a few words of welcome which were followed by remarks made by Mr. E. B. Wetherow, superintendent of schools, in LaPorte and Mr. F. I. McMurry, a member of the Indiana State Board of Education.
The principal address was delivered by Clarence E. Manion, Professor of Law of the University, who spoke on “The History of Notre Dame and the part it plays in Indiana History.”
The program in Washington Hall was then closed with several musical selections by the University Glee Club Quartet. After this the students were shown about the campus departing to their homes at about 5:30.
Stone Work On Washington
Hall Entrance Completed
A new sandstone trim for the double-door front entrance of Washington Hall is the latest addition to a long list of campus improvements effected" this spring. Three heavy square columns of sandstone, one on each side of the entrance and a third between the two doors, support a horizontal section of the same material, framing the doors in stone of a faint buff color.
New steps of generous width complete the outside entrance changes, while a sidewalk, laid out in a slightly different manner, will perhaps be laid in front of the building to make access more convenient.
It is unintelligent to deprive peoples of the possibility of living— Adolf Hitler.
Twelve
The Scholastic
FINAL ‘LAWYER’ ISSUED BY EDITOR LENCIONI
Local Faculty Members Are Among Contributors.
By Joseph Bucci
The final number of the Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly publication of the College of Law, was released Wednesday, May 24. The May issue features articles by local faculty members and men prominent in the field of law.
Professor Joseph H. Beale, of the Harvard Law School, writes on “Legal Pedagogy or What Have I?” Prof. Beale is the author of numerous books and articles on Criminal Law, Conflict of Laws and other legal topics. “Executory Trusts” is submitted by Prof. Brendan F. Brown of Catholic University. Prof. Ralph S. Bauer of DePaul University, author of various books on Damages and Business Law, contributes an article entitled, “Negligent Delay Plus Act of God.”
Fr. Miltner Writes
In “Recent Amendments to the Bankruptcy Act,” Professor Elton E. Richter, of the College of Law, considers the efforts of Federal legislation to alleviate the social dangers, the strained relations between creditors and debtors, brought about by excessive credit inflation which culminated in the stock market crash of 1929. The writer believes that the changes made in the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 will not render the aid hoped for in bringing about social adjustments.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College «f Arts and Letters, contributes, “The Paradox of Law and Liberty.” Father Miltner discusses from the viewpoint of jurisprudence the apparently paradoxical relation of law to liberty. Admitting that law necessarily imposes a burden of service for the general welfare, and curtails somewhat the exercise of individual freedom, he proceeds to show that every vestige of paradox disappears in the fact that the social good gained in return transforms and thus enlarges the very freedom foregone by the individual. This is possible because the nature and limitations of man make it necessary for him to live in society and therefore (Continued on Page 13)
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
campus,” Weil holds the all-time open record for consecutive weekends. This has not been gained in recent years, but back in the days before
F. Granger Weil
They call him “Barney.”
his prime. Fortunately for all future contenders for the title he has not made a record attempt this year.
Although having a comprehensive grasp of the present economic situation, Granger intends, after graduation, to enter the newspaper game. He has worked as reporter on a paper for the past several summers, and admits a liking for the business. His greatest enjoyment came from his assignments to the police beat one summer.
From Journalistic Family
Speaking of vocations, Weil admitted that his choice was somewhat influenced by the fact that both his father and grandfather belonged to the newspaper profession. And so ended the interview, with a swell senior rushing off to the tennis courts and your humble correspondent leaving with the thought of five of our immediate forbears doctors and three, nurses; and a tear shed for the future.
Some day soon, drop into the Port Huron police station. No matter what the charge, you may be assured of a sterling write-up with the byline: F. Granger Weil. And probably you will be very proud of that write-up in the autumn of life.
Our democracies, instead of gathering up the best with charity toward all, have, like our mobs, developed the worst, governed as they seem to be by prejudice, not understanding; by selfishness, not sympathy.—Owen D. Young.
ANNUAL CANPING TRIP WILL COMMENCE JUNE 1
Fifty Physical Ed Men To Go To Camp Eberhardt.
A change in the date of the annual Physical Education department training period in summer camp work at Camp Eberhardt, Corey Lake, Michigan, was announced this week by John A. Scannell, head of the department. Usually held during the scholastic year, the dates for this term’s field trip are from June 1 to the morning of June 10, when the group returns to Notre Dame.
Gives Leadership Training
“The object of the field work is to give particular training in the leadership required for work with boys in summer camps,” Mr. Scannell stated. “Five class periods are arranged for each day, one being given over to lectures on general problems in camping and specific divisions of the work, and the other four being set aside for instruction in water-front protection, life-saving, canoeing and boating, swimming, trap-shooting, leather work, archery and the construction of archery tackle, and other boy’s camp activities.”
Two years of field work of this type are required of the students in the Department of Physical Education. Most of the men take their work during the freshman and sophomore years. '
“The change in date has been made in accordance with the practice now followed by most schools,” Mr. Scannell explained.
Approximately fifty men will make up the group that will go to Camp Eberhardt June 1.
W. C. O’Toole, *34, Elected President of Pitt Club
William C. O’Toole, incoming senior and English major, will hold the office of president of the Pittsburgh Club for 1933-34, assisted by James Mc-Craley, the new vice-president, third year man in Science next term. Michael F. Weidl, treasurer, is an incoming senior in journalism, and Regis Kelley, 1933-34 sophomore in Arts and Letters, is the new secretary.
Completion of the elections last Friday, after one of the officers had been chosen the previous week, resulted in victory for these four men.
May 26, 1933
Thirteen
BRUCKER IS SPEAKER AT SCIENCE ACADEMY
Reyniers’ Technique Described To Members Monday.
By Richard Tobin
Matthew W. Brucker, a senior in the College of Science, presented a paper entitled, “Mechanized Plating in Bacteriological Research” at the final meeting of the year of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, Monday night.
The purpose of Brucker’s talk was to demonstrate the ease and facility with which a bacterial culture may be prepared in its desired dilution and plated by the newly devised Reyniers technique.
This new method which is known as the R-technique, after its inventor Mr. J. Arthur Reyniers, instructor in Bacteriology in the university, employs the newly constructed R-pipette which facilitates the preparation of a culture, and the turn-plate and spreader, also devices planned by Mr. Reyniers.
Demonstrates Methods
The common technique in media preparation by means of the standard pipette and hand plating was demonstrated by the speaker as was the Reyniers method.
The advantages of the R- technique as outlined by the speaker are: A saving of at least 75 per cent in time, greater comfort for the operator, uniform plating of the culture, as was illustrated by projecting on a screen the plates prepared by each of the methods.
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., following the demonstration, spoke to the members and guests assembled. In his brief address he complimented the members of the Academy for their work, and also spoke of Science and its contribution to life. The name scientist, he explained, may well be given to all men who are pursuing rational studies, whether the field of endeavor be what is commonly known as a science or in other lines.
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy, gave a summary of the work accomplished in the Academy .during the past year.
Keys of permanent membership in the. Academy were then distributed by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico,
2500 “DOMES” ARE GIVEN TO STUDENTS EARLY THIS WEEK.
Approximately 2500 Domes were distributed last Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, at the express office in the rear of the Main Building. Yellow, pink, and green-colored cards of different dates and hours were so presented as to have 400 copies of the Dome given out in the morning and afternoon of each of the three days.
One hundred books were supplied each hour. Studets co-operated very well in facilitating the rush by having their names already signed to the cards and appearing at their right hours.
“LAWYER” ISSUED
(Continued from Page 12)
to merge his individual with the common welfare.
Leo J. Hassenauer, LL.B., ’20, offers “Congressional Legislation Affecting Railroad Employees.” Mr. Hassenauer is a member of the Chicago Bar and is author of various articles on railroad labor. Editorelect Thomas L. McKevitt submits a brief eulogy of the late Col. Hoynes. Book Reviews by John M. Crimmins, and Joe Deeb, and Notes by B. R. Desenberg and Editor Dan Lencioni complete the list of featured articles.
The Lawyer has this year a wider circulation than in any other of the eight years of its existence. The publication affords an opportunity especially for law students to develop further their ability in preparing discussions of legal problems.
C.S.C., Director of Studies, to the following members: George C. Blaha, Matthew W. Brucker, Henry T. Gannon, Robert T. Lesage, James P. Murphy, Robert A. Nachtwey, Andrew E. O’Keefe, Hugh F. O’Neil, Edward D. Quinn, and Richard B. Tobin.
Among the guests present were: Mr. Henry B. Froning, Dr. Theodore Just, Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, Mr. J. Arthur Reyniers, and Mr. Donald J. Plunkett, of the faculty of the University.
The officers of the Academy for the year were: Edward G. Siegfried, president; Richard B. Tobin, vicepresident; James P. Murphy, secretary; and executive committee, Fred Weniger, Matthew Brucker, and Robert Lesage.
BANQUET CLOSES YEAR FOR COMMERCE FORUN
Father Fogarty Main Speaker; Prof. Coyne, Toastmaster.
The Commerce Forum held its second annual banquet last Thursday evening at the Rose Marie Tea Room. Professor William Coyne acted as toastmaster for the occasion which was attended by about 30 members of the Forum.
The Reverend James A. Fogarty, C.S.C.,. addressed the members on the topic of “Catholic Ideals in Business.” He stressed the point that the Church has a definite position, and rightly so, in the economic situation. The norm by which all actions, economic or otherwise, must be judged is that all men are equal. Our forefathers, he said, set up institutions that would best promote their welfare. Some of these institutions have been outgrown but we are still' holding on to them. We must cut away from them, it was pointed out, and substitute in their place institutions that will meet the needs of today.
Stresses Catholic Action
Catholic social action, according to Father Fogarty, consists in instituting a form of unemployment insurance and in having industry unite in ridding itself of some of the present shady practices that are now prevalent. If industry should fail to do this, then it is the duty of the state to bring about these changes.
The Church comes to the aid of labor first, because labor is most defenceless since it does not possess equal bargaining power. The Church . would have laborers unite to better the conditions, but, if for various reasons they should fail, then again it is the duty of the state to intervene and obtain justice for labor.
Father Fogarty warned the members that their ideals will meet with hard, cold facts when they enter the business world, but that they should abide by these ideals no matter how trying the situation may be.
Dean James E. McCarthy gave a short address in which he urged those present to uphold the principles as discussed by Father Fogarty.
Short talks were also given by the retiring president of the Forum, Francis J. Fogarty, and the newly elected president, John P. Hess.
Fourteen
The - Scholastic
LAST “JUGGLER” ISSUE ON SALE THIS EVENING
Commencement Number to be Fifteen Cents.
The Commencement number of the Juggler, wrapped in one of the best Becvar covers of the year, and slapping the serious seniors about with all kinds of gay abandon, comes forth tonight at the reduced price of 15 cents.
The Funny Fellow, Old Scripper, or whatever the kinder critics call him, tosses out a very impressive last issue.
Sheedy Contributes
There is a bit more of the short stuff to liven things up. And the old boy himself has done a very powerful and meller drama about the grave house of O’Neil and O’Neill. The tragedy lies in the extra “L.”
Young Scripper Sheedy has come through with a couple of pieces of verse that make us wonder why he didn’t start it earlier. Liver and Scholaticism are the complaints.
Bill Dreux, another of the droll retiring seniors, takes off the Time style in his own amusing way.
Adolf, the salesman unique, is presented as one of the men who makes the old joint what it is. And as a personality Adolf is right there.
Other points of interest are the child life of Babe Didrikson and a very intimate portrait of a great campus lover.
Becvar’s Last Appearance
Becvar, Doyle, Singson, Beaulaur-ier, and the Prezebel caricatures brighten the last effort artistically.
All in all it’s a very ambitious last issue. McCabe doesn’t seem to mind the heat. And if the Editors of other college magazines liked his Juggler at a quarter—well, it’s on sale at 15 cents. .
Notice
The Lost and Found Department will close June 5. Uncalled for goods will be disposed of for the benefit of the poor.
Found: Expensive wrist watch.
Notice!
All freshman, sophomore, and junior members of The Scholastic staff are asked to attend a brief meeting at 6:45 tonight in the editorial offices.
EDITOR
Paul F. McManus
Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, whose appointment as editor of the 1933-34 “Scrip” was announced by the Faculty Board of Publications. Home: Dorchester, Mass.
GOLDEN JUBILEE
(Continued from Page 7)
and the General Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Father French’s home was in St. Joseph, Missouri. He entered the Novitiate at Notre Dame in 1878, after completing his studies at the College. Following his ordination in 1883 he was made President of St. Joseph’s College in Cincinnati. He returned to Notre Dame in 1887, having been appointed Superior of Holy Cross Seminary, a post which he held until 1893. He received his Master of Arts degree in 1890 from the University. He was re-appointed Superior of Holy Cross Seminary in 1906 for another term of six years.
Father French organized the Mission Band in 1912, and was its superior for most of the eighteen years he was engaged in that work. The arduous work of the missions took him from coast to coast and into many parts of Canada. Of later years‘most of his work was done in the States of Massachusetts, New York, and New Jersey. He retired because of ill-health in 1930, and was appointed to the chaplaincy he now occupies.
Father French’s fifty years in the priesthood have been golden years, and students have much to thank him for in their present spiritual advantages. Student adoration began thir-
‘CATALYZER’ ENDS YEAR WITH FINAL NAY ISSUE
Message To Seniors Given In Article.
Messages and pictures are the important parts of Editor Frank Jenny’s final Catalyzer, the May issue. In this magazine is an anonymous message to the students of Science in 1933, in which the existing difficulties for employment and the ways in which the college man can adapt himself to such conditions are cited. “A habit of mind is the most valuable possession you carry away from college,” says the article. “Continue the college habit and do not worry about the future; look to the present.”
Contains Feature Index
Pictures of the Chemists Club and the June graduates in the Science Department, with degrees, are on page three of the book. A special feature is a Catalyzer index of all articles written within the past ten years of the magazine’s existence.
Editor Jenny recalls memories, and philosophizes a bit in his editorial “Notre Dame.” “To be a . leader in the unravellings of science, to be a brilliant engineer — yes, these are yearnings,” says Jenny, “but first of all to be a Notre Dame man is our aim.”
“Trouble in Paradise’* To
Be Shown Tomorrow Night
The last movie of the year will be given in Washington Hall tomorrow night at 6:30 and 8:20 p. m. The feature is the Lubitsch - directed “Trouble in Paradise” with Herbert Marshall, Miriam Hopkins, and Kay Francis.
Express Notice
The Express company will have representatives at the office in the rear of the Main Building, at the Book Store, and in the rear of Alumni Hall on May 29, 31, and June 1, between the hours of 8:00 a. m. and 5:00 p. m.
teen years ago because of his suggestion, and he is a constant advocate of daily Communion. Because of his work in the Priests’ Eucharistic Congresses he is widely known among the clergy and hierarchy. As a missionary he is nationally known.
May 26, 1933
Fifteen
11 LAETARE MEDALISTS WILL ATTEND JUBILEE
(Continued from Page G)
Elizabeth A. Starr, art critic; ’86, General John Newton, engineer; ’87, Edward Preuss, publicist; ’88, Patrick V. Hickey, editor and founder of the Catholic Review; ’89, Anna Dorsey, novelist; ’90, William J. Onahan, organizer of the First American Catholic Congress; ’91, Daniel Dougherty, orator; ’92, Henry Brownson, philosopher* and author; ’93, Patrick Donahue, founder of the Boston Pilot; ’94, Augustine Daly, dramatic producer; ’95, Mrs. James Sadlier, novelist.
Winners From ’96-’32
’96, General William Rosecrans, soldier; ’97, Thomas Emmet, physician; ’98, Timothy Howard, jurist; ’99, Mary Caldwell, philanthropist; ’00, John Creighton, philanthropist; ’01, William Cochran, orator; ’02, John B. Murphy, surgeon; ’03, Charles Bonaparte, lawyer; ’04, Richard Kearns, diplomat; ’05, Thomas Fitzpatrick, philanthropist; ’06, Francis Quinlan, physician; ’07, Katharine Conway, journalist and author; ’08, James Monaghan, economist; ’09, Mrs. Frances Tieman, novelist; ’10, Maurice Egan, author and diplomat; ’ll Agnes Repplier, author; ’12, Thomas M. Mulry, philanthropist; ’13, Charles Heberman, editor; ’14, Edward White, Chief Justice U. S. Supreme Court; ’15, Mary V. Merrick, philanthropist; ’16, James J. Walsh, physician and author; ’17, William Benson, admiral and chief of naval operations; ’18, Joseph Scott, lawyer; ’19, George Duval, philanthropist; ’20, Lawrence Flick, physician; ’21, Elizabeth Nourse, artist; ’22, Charles P. Neil, economist; ’23, Walter Smith, lawyer; ’24, Charles Maginnis, architect; ’25, Albert Zahm, scientist; ’26, Edward Hurley, business man; ’27, Margaret Anglin, actress; ’28, Jack Spalding, lawyer; ’29, Alfred E. Smith, statesman; ’30, Frederick Kenkel, publicist; ’31, James J. Phelan, business man; ’32, Stephen J. Maher, tuberculosis specialist.
Craine New Detroit Prexy
Clyde Craine, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Detroit Club at a meeting held Monday night in the LawBuilding. Other officers selected for next year are: Norman Fredericks, vice-president; Thomas Stringer, secretary; and John Annas, treasurer.
A Freshman Looks At The Commencement Program
'	By A ’36er
The Commencement Program!
Hmmmm ... I thumbed through the last issue of The Scholastic. I started, for the first time, to read that forbiddingly lengthy list which constituted the Commencement Program. To be frank right from the start, I had very few impressions. Perhaps I felt under pressure to register some, most likely that wasn’t the case. At any rate, I started in reading it ... I was impressed with the injection of the baseball game in the first day’s rites. I thought this a commendable thing. The effect of the second day’s outline on me? Well, I did get a distinct thought when I read about the Alumni Golf Tournament. For my mind wandered to the passage in “Splinters from the Press Box” which stated that Larry Moller shot a par 72 in that tourney last year. And then, in reading the last day’s activities, I was merely perplexed in discovering that no mention had been made of the reunion of the Laetare Medalists.
Three Years More .
As I looked at the top of the column, I saw written, “Commencement Program issued in Complete Form.” A flood of thoughts overran my brain. Ah! it wron’t be long now. The first year is already well behind me, three more to go. The pleasing picture of myself treading up the steps to receive my diploma flashed before me —black cap and gown, the cap cocked
Vince Fehlig Is Elected President of St. Louis Club
Vincent Fehlig, ’34, for the past two years a member of the varsity golf team, was elected president of the St. Louis Club for the 1933-34 school year at a meeting of the club, Monday evening in the Law Building. Fehlig succeeds Roland Dames in the presidency.
Albert Ravarino was elected to the vice-presidency, made vacant by the election of Fehlig, who had held the office this year, to the higher position. Peter Viviano was re-elected secretary-treasurer of the organization.
over one side,—which is not academic I am told—the gown billowing out behind me. Abruptly I tore myself away from my reverie. I began reading the print before me. “Alumni Registration.” Yes, the fellows I knew now* as Sophomores would be returning, many of them at least. How great it would be to hear from them— to listen to their experiences.
Recalls High School
I absorbed with much interest the activities of that first day, and I was half way through the second when I sighted the words, “Class Day Exercises . . . Washington Hall.” I recalled the high school graduating program—it contained no such item. Here, indeed was something I had never experienced. A longing rose up within me to be among this class—to participate in the Class Day Exercises. Then truly, came the realization of the work which lay ahead of me before this desire could be fulfilled. The ghosts of upperclass professors, hard, unflinching, passed before me.
But now, I no longer saw the page below me; I glanced feverishly at the calendar over the desk—May 23rd! “The examinations” I reflected —“the examinations are less than a week away.” My brow furrowed, cold sweat stood out on my forehead, as I groped for my notebook. For maybe . . . if I didn’t barrel in ... I might never get a chance to graduate.
Brias Becomes La Raza
Club President For ’33-’34
In a meeting last week, the La Raza Club of the University elected its officers for next year. Leopold Brias, a junior whose home is in Spain, was elected president. Carlos de Landero, a junior from Mexico, was elected vice - president, while Miguel Yriberry of Peru, and Ganzalo Valdes, of Spain, were elected secretary and treasurer respectively.
At the same meeting, the soccer team named Gonzalo Valdes as their captain for the coming year, and Miguel Yriberry as manager.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
^Producing “Richelieu” Is
“Little Theatre” Project
COMMENCEMENT NUMBER OF ‘ALUMNUS’ RELEASED
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Plans For Reunion of Alumni Are Announced.
Notre Dame’s University Theatre is being in reality “Little Theatre.” Everything from the building of sets, a stage, the importing of furniture, designing of costumes, and the routine of rehearsals, is in progress for the French drama, “Richelieu.” The University Players are presenting a play that has lived for years, as a fitting climax to their year’s activities.
Carpenters are busily at work in the gym building a stage that will equal in size that of Washington Hall. The new stage will have a full size rostrum and will be equipped with the necessary footlights, overhead lights, and proper pulleys and ropes for the hanging of curtains. A new set of drapes, back drops, and both exterior and interior sets will be used by the University Theatre.
Characters In Making
In Washington Hall, under the supervision of Professor Frank Kelly, the players are rehearsing nightly for the’ scenes that will depict the intrigue of the sixteenth century in France. Cardinal Richelieu, Louis XIII, and the Duke of Orleans are in the making. The cardinal walks about from one side of the stage to the other, muttering lines, correcting inflections of his voice, and gradually living the part of the great French figure. King Louis finds it difficult to stoop with age, to talk with an effort, and to assume a countenance of royalty.
Director Kelly stands at the rear of the auditorium watching, listening to the actors shaping themselves into their respective parts. Now and then he stops the show, analyzes the situation on the stage, and together with the cast, works out the most effective interpretation. Only by repetition can the players learn to think, act, and speak as their characters would.
Hour after hour the cast rehearses tirelessly. Handsome De Mauprat, darked in his black velvet suit and high satin slippers is saying, “Was fate ever like mine? So, blest and yet so wretched.” The gay De Mauprat must learn to act downcast, to show the audience that he is in low spirits.
And so the play goes on, act after act. Every glimpse must be closely connected with the preceding one. Every character must be acute in his part. The cast must all work toward a definite goal: that of transporting the audience to conspiring France, four centuries in the past.
Classes Cooperating
The production staff as well as the several drama classes in the University Speech department are cooperating with Mr. Kelly in making “Richelieu” a success. Information on sixteenth century dress, furniture, customs, and habits has been studied and tabulated for use in the production.
Another phase not being overlooked is the careful lighting system that will be employed. The electricians are experimenting with light effects in order to determine what combinations will show up best on the brilliant costumes which will be used.
Glancing in on the last rehearsal before the opening, one can see a world of progress since the players first picked up their lines to begin the long grind of rehearsals. The play is no longer a group of scenes, acts, glimpses of a story; it is one continuous piece, sharp in characterization and accurate in reproduction.
It is Monday night in a transformed Auditorium. The curtain is rustling back and forth in unison with a light breeze. The band strikes up “Vive Le Roi”; the footlights come on full, and the curtain parts. The show is ready to go on!
V Joseph Hayes Chosen New President Of A. S. M. E.
Joseph I. Hayes, a junior in the College of Engineering, was elected president of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at the meeting of the society held recently.
Hayes succeeds David E. Troy as president. Other officers elected at the meeting are: Eugene Witchger, vice-president; Wesley Strehl, secretary; and William F. Escher, treasurer. Witchger and Strehl are sophomores, and Escher is a junior in Mechanical Engineering.
Included in the May issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus, are articles concerning the eighty-ninth Commencement exercises at the University, data on the reunions planned, and interesting information concerning Father Coughlin, Al Smith, John McCormack, Hon. Paul V. McNutt, and Dr. James J. Walsh.
Editor Armstrong, who is secretary of the Alumni association, has carefully outlined the programs that will be offered for the entertainment of the alumni. Instructions regarding housing, addresses, and sports, are given.
Under the section devoted to alumni clubs, a complete account' of the various celebrations by Notre Dame clubs on Universal Notre Dame night is presented. One-Line fillers between each article urges the alumni to “come back for commencement.”
Announcements concerning the recent trip of Dean McCarthy to the East, the founding of the new Meehan scholarships, the retention of the present athletic heads, as well as a complete athletic section by Joseph S. Petritz, are the remaining features of the magazine.
O’Toole Sends Gov’t. Plans to Mechanical Drawing Dept.
Charles O’Toole, who receives his degree in Givil Engineering from Notre Dame in 1933, has sent to the Mechanical Drawing Department a set of United States Government plans. The drawings, which will be used for purposes of study, cover in detail the construction of a lock in the Allegheny River outside of Pittsburgh, Pa.
The plans come directly from the Pittsburgh Office of the United States Corps of Engineers, who are in charge of construction, and with whom O’Toole is affiliated. There are 109 plates, all of which are one-half scale reproductions of the original drawings. As the plates indicate, many basic principles of Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering are called into play.
May 26, 1933
Seventeen
BROTHER BARNABAS IS HONORED IN TORONTO
Canadian Groups Pay Homage to Famed Welfare Worker.
The Knights of Columbus of Toronto, Canada, recently held a “Remembrance Day” meeting in honor of Brother Barnabas of the Christian Brothers, who died four years ago, after a life wholly dedicated to the uplift of the under-privileged.
The gathering brought together representatives of the Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish organizations of Toronto that are interested in social welfare work, chiefly in that part which deals with boy guidance.
Brother Barnabas organized the Lincoln Agricultural School, at Lincolndale, New York, which gives agricultural training to friendless boys. He was a charter member of the National Conference of Catholic Chari-r	ties, serving as vice-president in 1921.
He served on the Advisory Committee on outdoor recreation called by President Coolidge in 1925.
Given Honorary Degree
Under the auspices of the Knights r	of Columbus, he was instrumental in
establishing a course of training at the University of Notre Dame for men who are interested in the direction of Boys’ Clubs. In 1929 Brother Barnabas was awarded the Doctor of Laws degree by the University of t	Notre Dame for his outstanding con-
tributions to boy welfare and the social service field. On this occasion the first class of the Knights of Columbus Boy Guidance students re-ecived degrees of Master of Arts from Notre Dame.
r	It was decided at the meeting that
an interdenominational committee should be appointed to consider erecting a memorial in honor of Brother Barnabas.
Fifty Men Attend Annual Engineers* Picnic Saturday
The annual Engineers’ picnic last Saturday at Christiana Lake, with ' about fifty members and guests in attendance, was the last of the club’s organized activities for the year.
Water sports and athletic contests, topped off by the traditional picnic spread, occupied the relaxing engineers during their day of leisure at the lake.
Inflation Move Seems to Feature Talk, Not Action
By Robert E. Gelhouse
Inflation, inflation, everywhere but not a buck to spend! Inflation is in the air. The newspapers and radio have scattered it country-wide. Everyone chatters excitedly about the good times ahead. An optimism, even stronger than spring fever, has become almost universal; and such a welcome change it is from the three long-faced pessimistic years since 1929, years of job losing, salary cuts, and soup lines.
But with all the headlines and cheery conversations most of us find our pockets just as dollarless as they were last fall. Few of us have benefited materially. Some, it is true, have been called back from the vacation that began ages ago; others have gleefully watched those ten shares of Standard Oil or Radio double in market value; and still others have watched wheat rise thirty cents a bushel. Small in number, however, are the beneficiaries of inflation compared to the multitude of destitute or near-destitute demanding relief.
Inflation Must Be Slow
The inflationary process is slow. That is the only safe method. A too rapid movement can be extremely disastrous, as was taught by the Gennan currency escapade of ten years ago. Remember, it has taken over three years to raze that mammoth financial heap of 1929. Construction is a more tedious process than destruction. We must expect any upward movement to take a number of years to return the country again to those comparatively serene and peaceful days of Coolidge Prosperity.
Commodity prices, security prices, and employment have all increased in the past two months. Have we inflation to thank for this? Examination will show differently. Anticipation of inflation has been the main factor contributing to stock market activities. A forecast of smaller farm crops has given impetus to rising grain prices. A general shortage of all manufactured goods in the hands of retailers has caused a rising demand and higher prices for all commodities. Wages and employment have increased because of the higher price level and the demand for commodities. In addition, the general
banking holiday has cleared the dead wood out of our financial organizations and has given stability to all types of industry. AH' of these factors have aided the present rally but none of them are inflationary measures.
In its simplest form, inflation is any substantial increase in the total of the money and credit of a nation. It puts into the public hands more \ currency; it puts more deposits into the banks; it means a betterment of price levels; it acts as a spark in starting business activity; it furnish- i es new employment; it creates buying power and stimulates .consumption; and finally, it makes the payment of>* debts easier.
President Given Power
Truthfully, there has been no actual inflation in this country. Bills have passed Congress and have been signed by the President giving the chief executive the power of inflation by several means but, as yet, no use has been made of these powers. Inflation must be handled cautiously and President Roosevelt will not hurriedly invoke a plan which might prove disastrous.
Three important inflationary powers have been placed in the hands of the President. The first is the issuance of three billion dollars worth of government bonds to be sold by the Federal Reserve system, the proceeds to be used in a gigantic public works building program. The second is the issuance by the treasury of three billion dollars in “green-backs.” Should the Federal Reserve be unable to absorb the huge issue of government bonds, this means is to be employed. The third presidential power allows the reduction of the amount of gold in the dollar up to fifty per cent. This method will be used in connection with the return of the dollar to the gold standard.
The President can make use of one or of all these powers as he sees fit. In nature they are emergency measures and will be employed only to hasten our financial and industrial recovery. They are the yeast that will be applied to our dormant institutions, in order that they will expand, earn profits, and place money in pockets so long empty.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
“HAVE YOU HEARD?”
In the catalogue of man’s vices there is one which is perhaps practiced more and at the same time is given less serious consideration than any other, and that is gossip.
It seems to be inherent in every man’s nature to make idle talk about the misfortunes, the shortcomings, and the faux pas of his fellow, regardless of how great or trivial they may be. A single fact, insignificant though it may be, is usually sufficient to put the machinery of gossip into motion, and then rumor is all that is needed to keep it going.
Nations and individuals alike have been influenced, have been destroyed by this avalanche which may be started by a pebble, a grain of dust. Its victims may be innocent of any wrong, or they may be guilty of the blackest sins. But there is no discrimination whatever, they are unable to defend themselves, and the innocent naturally suffer the most.
Unfair and cruel as it is to those who are the object of gossip, the ones who indulge in it are also affected. Not only does it rob them of time which might well be invested in worthwhile activities, but ultimately it so poisons their souls that it makes them devoid of human sympathy and understanding. Their thoughts become as shallow as their words. Then too, there are those words of the Master which have stood as a warning against gossip through the centuries: “But I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.”
Mistakes figure prominently in every man’s personal economy. Making mistakes and rectifying them takes up a large part of one’s life, and gossip only serves to make the burden of dne’s errors all the heavier.—Manitou Messenger.
OPTIMISM TO PESSIMISM
Seniors at many colleges and universities, who have been suffering the standard query— “Are you going to graduate this June?”—are beginning to change their standard answer ’ from “I hope so,” to “Yes, I’m afraid I will,” says the Michigan Daily.
MORAL: LESS WANDERING
“The Collegiate habit of wandering about the streets without hats is one of the big reas
ons for the increase in the number of bald heads,” said Dr. Lawrence Oliver of Harvard.
OR LEGS EITHER
Students at Glasgow University, following in the footsteps of the Oxford Union, have decided they will not bear arms in case of war.
RELIC-ATED
The Pennsylvania state highway patrol recently confiscated twenty-five cars owned by students of Lehigh University and classified them as “relics unfit to operate on public streets.”
THE ROAD TO KNOWLEDGE
Statistics show that men at Dennison university who drove cars on the campus last year made grades 26 percent higher than those who walked.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY
Hazing has been discontinued at Lincoln Memorial University in Tennessee since one of the younger professors was thought to be a frosh at a recent demonstration.
NEW RATIO
An entirely new form of insurance has been introduced at St. Thomas college, St. Paul. For 25 cents, the students may take out a policy against being called on in class. If the professor calls on them they are able to collect five dollars.
HONORARIUM!
Coeds at Ohio State nominated James Montgomery Flagg, noted artist for a degree of “B. S.” (Bad Sight, not Bachelor of Science), when he declared that “all the ugly girls go to college.”
SAY!
The yo-yo craze has hit the coast again, according to reports from Washington State College (Pullman, Wash.) and anyone who cannot make the yo-yo climb the string at least 573 times without stopping, and do a couple of fancy stunts besides, is considered a great big sissy.
May 26, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
N, D. ON PARADE
One of the sad things about running the affairs of a university is the fact that no matter how efficient and exemplary the administration itself is, the school is inevitably judged by the men it turns out as graduates. Notre Dame, for instance, may do her very best, but three or four students let loose on the outside can, in a very few minutes, make a rather unwanted impression.
Take the case of the lone Notre Dame man from the town of two thousand. The populace knows only that we have a hard schedule next fall, and that John So-and-So, one of their own, is studying here to be a chemist. When John
1 comes home he is on display. Everybody watches the college boy. People debating whether to send their own children away the following year take a side look at John to see how he is getting on at Notre Dame.
f	If he can answer all the questions, Notre Dame
is a great place. If he is guilty of anything the least bit off-color Notre Dame has slipped up. If he is guilty of anything away off color....
f	Whether it is fair to Notre Dame to make
every one of its inhabitants an ambassador is not the point. People do, and as narrow and lop-sided as public opinion frequently is, it means a great deal. The summei' is here and Notre Dame will soon be on parade again. When our own actions connote so much to other people there must be a genuine responsibility that goes with the boast that is heard the world over: “I’m a Notre Dame man.”
L	‘V
CURTAIN
The present issue is the last of the 1932-33 Scholastic. To. many people the announcement will be just one of those things that happen every year. To an editor it means infinitely more. It indicates first of all, and most of all, that his college life is over. Without knowing the exact na-
ture of the sensation that comes over a student as he gets into a cab and realizes that he may never see Notre Dame again, we can say a prion that we would just as soon not experience it.
We have come across several individuals who are constantly amused by the admission of their fellows that they are going to miss Notre Dame immeasurably. Their kind is well known. They have that studied cynicism, that inexplicable callous to emotion, which might be traced to too many John Barrymore movies. Somehow these stoics believe that to get sentimental about such a thing as a university is nothing but an effeminate outburst. To say you do not care when maybe you do is the part of the man. These people are among the very few things at Notre Dame that we will not miss.
In handing over The Scholastic to our successors we will have to refrain from listing the many things that have made our life here this year so livable. One phase of our activity in Notre Dame journalism, however, demands a little comment; and that, our associations while at work.
We will always marvel at the fidelity of the average man-on-the-staff. He was continually asking us what else he could do. No distance was too far for him if we needed a picture or a story! He was the backbone of our little group, the sine qua non of a regular Friday afternoon edition. He undoubtedly considered himself profiting by the chores at hand, but his willingness was constituted of stronger stuff than desire for personal gain. He worked when no promotions were in sight, and worked harder when promotions went to others.
And so we take our leave, not much impressed by the fact that we know how to write a headline, or how to make up a page of type, but decidedly more conscious of the examples that others have set, and the friendships they have so magnanimously offered.
Twenty
. The Scholastic
r
ATHLETICS |
Golfers To Play In Nationals
Irish Entered In Intercollegiates; WISCONSIN TEAR BEATS Play For State Title Tomorrow LA RAZA SOCCER SQUAD
Five Men Leave in Quest of Indiana Links Title; Four Named for Team Play.

By James S. Kearns
For the third time in the four years that golf has been a recognized intercollegiate sport here, Notre Dame will be represented in the National Intercollegiate tournament this summer. This year’s collegiate links classic will be held in Buffalo, N. Y., from June 26 to July 1. Announcement of Notre Dame’s entrance was made this week by University athletic authorities.
Captain John Montedonico’s fine stroking team is facing its final test prior to the national meet this weekend at Terre Haute where the Irish will seek the Indiana state collegiate crown in a 36-hole medal play tourney tomorrow.
Squad Leaves Today
A five man squad under the guidance of Father Francis Ott left for Terre Haute early this morning for the annual meet. Captain Montedon-ico, Johnny Banks, Vince Fehlig, and Billy Cole will compose the Notre Dame team entry. Bill Veeneman, the fifth member of the squad, will play in the tourney in quest of individual honors.
The primary object of the Irish team in tomorrow’s engagement will be the returning of the state crown to Notre Dame after an absence of one year. The local golfers won the title in 1930 and 1931 but slipped to fourth place last spring behind Purdue, Indiana, and DePauw.
Of secondary importance in the tourney will be the individual championship, held by Notre Dame players for the last three years. Following the revision made last year, the , individual title will be based on the same 36-hole round as the team
award, rather than on an extra 36 holes as was the original arrangement.
The record of the Irish in state and national play during the brief life of intercollegiate golf here has been little short of sensational. In 1930, the first year of the team, they won the Indiana team title with a four-man total of 647. Bill Redmond won the individual championship with Fran Beaupre and Larry Moller finishing second and third.
In the National tourney at Oakmont in Pittsburgh that summer the team finished fourth with a total of 767. Larry Moller was a medalist in the qualifying rounds and went to the finals of' the individual play where George Dunlap of Princeton defeated him. Moller was elected president of the National College Golf association that year.
Place Five Out Of Six In ’31
In 1931 the Irish won the state meet in a walk with a 616 total, 26 strokes ahead of Purdue and 48 ahead of Indiana. Larry Moller, playing only in the individual division, won that championship with a 305 score for 72 holes. Louie O’Shea finished second, Captain Fran Beaupre tied for third. Bill Redmond was fifth, and Russ Beaupre was sixth, giving Notre Dame five of the first six places.
In the 1931 nationals the Notre Dame team finished third with a score of 627 and qualified two,men for the individual play. Moller lost . to Sydney Noyes of Yale in the first round three and two but Bill Redmond went to the quarter-finals of the meet before George Dunlap beat him 7 and 6 in his march to another title.
Last year Redmond won the Indiana individual crown and Vince Fehlig, playing only in the individual bracket, was third. The Irish team total was 639.
Badger Eleven Hands N. D. its First Defeat of Year, 2-1.
By Roy Scholz
The International Club of the University of Wisconsin last Saturday won from the La Raza eleven by a 2-1 score after ninety minutes of whirlwind playing. Time and again the Wisconsin forwards advanced almost to the goal of the La Raza team, only to lose control of the ball and in turn be hard pressed by the Notre Dame forwards as they swept down the length of the field in neat passes and combinations.
The Wisconsin goalie was pressed more often than the Notre Dame goalie, but the La Raza shots were not very strong. Wisconsin, on the other hand, shot dangerously, but always slightly too high or too much to one side of the uprights.
Tie At Half
Halftime found the -teams in a scoreless tie. Early in the second half, La Raza forced several corner kicks against Wisconsin, one of which, booted by Brias, was taken by Ed Roxas on the head and opened the score. Wisconsin then advanced furiously, eager to even the count, and succeeded shortly afterwards on a strong boot by Penny, and then obtained another goal on a shot by Volk. Thereafter play was balanced again, the ball see-sawing back and forth.
Outstanding was the work of the La Raza full-back, and newly elected captain, Valdes, and of the La Raza forwards. The visitors, arrayed in their bright red uniforms, presented a well-balanced, effective team playing a steady, scientific game.
The International Club was truly an International aggregation. Its line-up included the following nationalities: Argentina, China. England, (Continued on Page 21)
May 26, 1933
Twenty-one
TENNIS SQUAD LOSES TO MICHIGAN NORMAL 6-1
Track Team Wins From Pittsburgh Squad 71-55
Three Irish Netmen Falter In Singles; Staley Wins.
By Howard Waldron
Inclement weather dogged the heels of the Notre Dame netmen again last week and they were able to get in only one practice session, their second in two weeks. The result was that on Sunday, May 21, they suffered a 6-1 defeat, this time from the racquets of the Michigan Normal squad.
Irish fans had hoped for a complete sport triumph for Notre Dame teams over the past week-end. Baseball, track, and golf teams had won in easy fashion and tennis alone remained. The Irish netmen started off in rare form and a win looked certain until the players reached the second sets of their matches. Then the three men who had piled up first set leads, Lukats, Kelly, and O’Hanlon, faltered and Michigan Normal chalked up the fifth successive tennis loss for the Irish in the current season.
Carson Beats Chreist
The same faults which marred the other matches which they lost cropped up in this one. Sure point after sure point was tossed away by the Irish players who hit directly to their opponents on easy kill shots instead of playing the corners, cutting the ball short, or hitting for the baselines. Lack of practice and coaching would account for these glaring misplays.
Captain Louis Chreist started the day wrong for the Irish by losing his match with K. Carson of Michigan Normal by scores of 6-3, 7-5. Chreist had played good tennis in previous matches and was moved up ahead of Lukats, but the strategy went for naught. The Michigan ace was too smart and fast for the Irish captain.
Schiltz of Michigan Normal downed Nick Lukats of the Irish in a hard-fought three set match by scores of 5-7, 6-4, 6-2. The Normal player was barely nosed out in the first set, and proved too steady for the hard-hitting Nick in the last two sessions. Jack O’Hanlon dropped another three set battle to Botts of Normal by scores of 5-7, 6-4, 6-3.
O’Hanlon was down 5-3 in the first set when he rallied to win four straight games and the set. The effort
Season’s Final Sports Calendar
Friday
Baseball: Purdue on Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
Saturday
Golf: Indiana State Intercollegiate tournament, Terre Haute.
Track: Indiana State Intercollegiate meet, Indianapolis.
Monday
Baseball: Wisconsin on Cartier
Field, 3:00 p. m.
Tuesday
Baseball: Wisconsin on Cartier
Field, 2:00 p. m.
June 2nd.
Track: C. I. C. Outdoor meet, Milwaukee, Wis.	.
June 3rd.
Baseball: Michigan State on Cartier Field.
June 10th.
Track: N. C. A. A. meet at Stagg
Field, Chicago.
June 26-July 1
Golf: National Intercollegiate tournament, Buffalo, N. Y.
SOCCER GAME
(Continued from Page 20)
Germany, Norway, Scotland, and the United States.
Line-ups:
I. C. of Wisconsin: Yeats; Jonassen and Gottlieb; Tang, Chang, and Sell; Anker, Volk, Penny, Foth, and Penman.
La Raza Club of Notre Dame: de Landero; Valdes, Creel, Quenan; Bonet, Yriberry and Singson; Hayos, Arce, Roxas, Brias, and de Landero.
Referee: Alex Mitchell.
seemed to have a bad effect on him in the next two sets, especially in the third when, after a tie - of 3-3, Bott swept through three in a row for the honors.
Dick Kelly started off like a worldbeater in his match with Brown of Normal by winning the first five games in order. But Brown rallied and took three, and then Kelly won the set, 6-3. In the second set it was (Continued on Page 25)
YOUNG WINS 2-MILE
Diminutive Irish Star Whips Clise By Inches To Take Honors In Long Jaunt.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The Irish trackmen were forced to wait until their last dual meet of the year to secure their initial victory in outdoor competition. This was accomplished last Saturday on Cartier Field at the expense of the University of Pittsburgh. The final tabulations show that the Panthers fell 71 to 55.
The biggest thrill of the afternoon, and easily the most nerve racking that the fans have experienced here this year, involved the diminutive Joey Young and Clise, a lad from Pittsburgh. They put on their stunt in the two mile run. Both runners stayed well up in the race all the way with Young leading the pack most of the time.
Young Wins In Stretch
With a half-lap remaining, Clise overtook Joe and set out at a terrific pace, which later proved to be a glowing error. As the boys thundered down the home stretch, Clise was out in front by ten yards and showing the effects of his early sprint. Young, who had saved some of his great speed, began to close the gap and overtook the Panther runner only a few yards in front of the tape.
Three men tied for individual high scoring honors. Frank Murphy, Jimmy Fagan, and Bill Keller, the Pitt ace, each registered ten points.
The invading Panthers were able to count only three firsts in fourteen events.
Frank Murphy did a fine piece of work in the 100 and 220 yard dashes when he led the fields across the finish line in both events. Dilling placed second to Frank in the 220 but Pitt men nosed out the other Irish contestants in the century.
Fagan rolled up ten more points for Notre Dame with first places in the high and low hurdles. Guay gave the Irish runner a bit of trouble in (Continued on Page 24)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Freshman Beats Morrissey 12-2 For Interhall Crown
GOLF TEAM WINS SIXTH STRAIGHT;BEATSCHICAGO
END YEAR UNBEATEN
Ream Hurls Three-Hit Game as Frosh Roll up Seventh Consecutive Victory.
By Nick Connor
Freshman Hall added another trophy to its collection yesterday by trouncing the vaunted nine from Morrissey 12 to 2. The game played was for the championship of the Interhall kittenball league. Freshman was a representative of Group II while the sophs from Morrissey recently were winners of Group I. The victory gave the freshmen a clean slate for the season. Up to the time of the championship game the frosh had won six straight games without a defeat and yesterday’s game gave them their seventh consecutive win for a percentage of one thousand.
Freshmen In Near Riot
With the exception of Allen and Rubly, every freshman succeeded in getting to Pitcher Nuss for at least one hit. Nuss, during the course of the seven-inning fracas, gave 13 hits and issued but three bases on balls. Ream hurling for Freshman, gave eight passes, but held the sophomores to three hits. Such effective pitching is seldom seen in an indoor game.
Emmett Mortell led Freshman’s attack with a single, a double, and a triple in four times at bat. He was followed very closely by two of his teammates, Gannon and Gorman, who banged out two bingles a piece in their four trips to the plate. English, Sullivan, and Cushing were the only members of the Morrissey nine to get hits off Ream.	.
A near riot resulted when Alabam’ Gorman, center fielder for the freshmen, failed to touch second, when he hit an easy home run to deep center. However, the freshmen were easily pacified as the outcome of the game was in no way endangered.
Freshman started out by getting one run in the first inning, five in the second, two in the fourth, three in the fifth, and one in the last stanza. Morrissey succeeded in capturing their two markers in the third and fourth frames.
Day Wins Frosh Golf Title From Roommate; Shoots 71 In Finals
Winfield S. Day of Elmhurst, Ill., won the golf championship of the Freshman class last Sunday by defeating his Dillon hall roommate, Herman W. Green, of New Castle, Pa., 4 and 2 in the 36-hole final round of the class tourney. '
Trailing four down at the end of the morning 18, Day rallied with a brilliant 71 in the afternoon to win. The round was the best turned in on the University course since it was reconditioned a year ago. A course record was not awarded to Day, however, since he failed to hole out on two holes, picking up his ball when Green conceded.
The scores for the match were: Day, 80-71—151, and Green, 76-79— 155.
Box score and summary:
Freshman	(12)	AB
Gannon, c ............4
Ream, p	.......... 3
Allen, lb	.......... 4
Rubly, 2b	.......... 4
Howlett, ss ..........4
Hause, 3b ............4
Kavlier, sf ..........3
Mortell. If ..........4
Gorman, cf ...........4
Lamoe, rf ........... 1
Neaher, rf .......... 1
RHE
2,	2	0
12	0
0 0 0 0 0 1 110 110
2 10 2 3 0 12 0
2 1 0 0 0 0
12	13	1
36
Morrissey (2)	AB	R
English, If ............3	0
Sagartz. rf ............2	0
Krafther, ss ...........2	0
Sullivan, 3b ...........3	1
Blake. 2b ..............3	0
Shovan, sf .............2	0
Cushing cf .............3	1
Ferrell, c .............2	0
Shanahan, lb ...........2	0
Nuss, p ............... 2	0
H	E
1	0
0	0
0	0
1	1
0	0
0	1
1	1
0	0
0	0
0	0
23	2	3	3
Freshman ...........1 5 0 2 3 0 1—12
Morrissey ..........0 0 1 1 0 0 0— 2
Errors—Shovan, Sullivan, Cushing, Rubly.
Runs batted in—Hause, Mortell, Lamoe. Gan
non (2),'Ream (2), Allen Shovan. Kavlier, Gorman. Strike outs—by Nuss 3: by Ream 12. Two base hits—Kavlier, Mortell, Lamoe, Ream, Sullivan, Howlett. English. Three-base hits—Gannon, Mortell. Home runs—Hause.
Base on balls—off Nuss 3 : off Ream 8.
Winning pitcher—Ream. Losing pitch—
Nuss.
Swamp Maroons 17j/o to Vo In Last Dual Match of Season.
By James F. McKeon
Paced by Johnny Banks for the second successive week the Notre Dame golf team had little trouble in defeating the University of Chicago
Father Francis C. Ott
His were the coach’s worries.
by the score of 17^ to % on the William J. Burke Memorial golf course last Saturday. The match was the final dual meet in intercollegiate competition for Father Ott’s men this year, and their impressive win, coming as it does after five just as convincing victories, augurs well for their chances in the state title at Terre Haute tomorrow.
Banks shot a morning round of 74 and covered the afternoon 18 in 75 for a 149 total.
Cole Has A 74
Bill Cole, playing only in the afternoon, made a 39-35—74 for the best score in the singles matches. He de- -feated Baker by a 3-0 score. Cole shot par golf on the last 14 holes. He shot three birdie two’s, but two sixes on par five holes lost for him whatever chance he had of equalling" the course record.
Ray Martin, making his first appearance of the year turned .in 41-39 —80, outpointing Smith 3-0.
Chicago picked up their score fragment when Howe and Mauermann halved the first nine. Bob Howe
(Continued on Page 26)
May 26, 1933
Twenty-three
FRESHMAN, MORRISSEY CAPTURE GROUP TITLES
Keoganites Bat Way To 12-4 Win Over Ohio State
Frosh. Unbeaten in Six Games;
Morrissey Loses One.
By Nick Connor
The interhall kitten-ball league came to an official close last Sunday. After all of the scores had been computed and the averages figured, we find that the nine from Morrissey headed the teams in Group I, while that heavy hitting outfit from Freshman topped the seven teams in Group II. The Freshman hall nine during the course of the six weeks of play won six games and encountered no defeats. But the sophomores from Morrissey were not so fortunate as the frosh as they lost a game last week, leaving then* record at five games won, and one lost.
These two teams, Freshman and Morrissey, played in the Little World Series that was held yesterday morning. Due to the nearness of the final exams the managers of the two teams decided to play but one final game instead of the usual series.
Badin scored a close victory over the freshmen from Dillon in last
Final Standing Interhall Baseball League
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
Morrissey .......... 5	1	.833
Sorin .............. 4	2	.667
Dillon ............. 3	3	.500
Badin .............. 3	3	.500
Corby .............. 3	3	.500
St. Edward’s ....... 2	4	.333
Lyons .............. 1	5	.167
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Freshman ........... 6	0	1.000
Alumni ............. 4	2	.667
Howard ............. 4	2	.667
Walsh .............. 3	3	.500
Brownson ........... 2	4	.333
Carroll ............ 2	4	.333
Off Campus ......... 0	6	.000
Sunday’s play. The juniors won 8 to 7. Mahoney pitching for Corby stood the batters from St. Edward’s on their heads as he allowed them but four runs; Corby won 11 to 4. The last of Sunday’s games saw Morrissey score a shut-out over Lyons, the Group I league leaders winning 6 to 0.
Brownson, Off-Campus and Walsh
(Continued on Page 26)
IRISH AMASS 18 HITS
Seidl and Dunn Lead Batting Attack; McGrath Has Great Day in Field.
By John D. Carbine
Pounding the offerings of Blue and Gilroy for a grand total of 18 solid hits, Notre Dame’s baseball team romped to a decisive 12 to 4 victory-over Ohio State in a game played on Cartier Field last Saturday. The batting of the Irish was far more potent and more timely than in any other game thus far in the current season.
Dunn, with four hits in four times at bat, and Seidl, who collected four hits in five attempts, led the Irish attack on the Buckeye pitchers. Huis-king and O’Neill shared the honors for the longest hit of the day with a pair of hard hit triples. Saturday the Keoganites showed an ability to hit in the pinches. The absence of this factor had resulted in the loss
Seek State And National Honors
of several games earlier in the season.
Huisking Yields One Hit
The 1933 Notre Dame Golf Varsity
Left to right: Ray Martin, ’35, Johnny Banks, ’35, Vince Fehlig, ’34, Bill Veeneman, ’34, Captain John Montedonico, ’34, Billy Cole, ’35.
Sagartz and Huisking did the pitching for the Irish. Sagartz pitched five innings and was nicked for nine hits and three runs. Huisking twirled the final four frames and held the Big Ten team to a single hit and one run.
The Keoganites picked up two runs in the first inning. After two men had been retired, Seidl got a single, Rascher was safe on an error by the first baseman. Palmisani walked in fill the bases, and Dunn drove Seidl and Rascher across with a hard single.
Notre Dame added two more in the fourth. Dunn opened this inning with a single and went to second on McGrath’s sacrifice. After O’Neill had been retired, Sagartz singled to score Dunn, and Cunha drove a hit to left to score Sagartz.
The Irish sent Blue hurrying to the showers after a barrage of six hits which accounted for four runs in the fifth and, in the sixth, continu-(Continued on Page 26)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING	Arnold Seidl
TRACK TEAM WINS
(Continued from Page 21)
By John D. Carbine
Arnold Seidl, the regular left fielder on this year’s Irish baseball team, began his diamond career not in high school, for his high school had no ball club, but with the Marshfield (Wisconsin) team of the Wisconsin Valley Amateur League. He began playing in this league while yet in high school and has now been with the Marshfield club for six straight years. During these six years, the team has twice won the championship of the Wisconsin Valley League.
Seidl came to Notre Dame in 1928. During his freshman year he played first string frosh football and received his numerals at the end of the sea-
Step ashore at
HAMBURG
sill?50
■ ■ ’ ■(■p) Tourist A&V Class
$193 (up) Round Trip
and enjoy evtry minute en route!
NOW is the time—when travel costs are down, when the value of your dollar in Europe is up — now is the time for that trip to Europe!... In Tourist Class on United States Liners, you’ll find your own congenial college crowd aboard ... enjoying gay good times in the American manner.
College people are choosing these ships: Leviathan, Manhattan and Washington, world’s fastest Cabin liners; President Harding; President Roosevelt. Four "one-class” American Merchant Liners direct to London... Fare $90.
To ROME in Holy Year Convenient connections via all United States Liners from European ports direct to Rome.
UNITED STATES UNES
AMERICAN MERCHANT UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Co., Inc. General Agents
216 No. Michigan, Chicago, Hl.
son. Football over, he turned to basketball and gained his second numeral sweater.
Last year, Arnie reported for varsity baseball for the first time. He made the squad as a utility infielder and outfielder. When the innings of play were totaled up to determine who had won monograms, Seidl was found to be among the award winners. His batting average for the year was .390, which was the second highest among the Keoganites.
Is Batting .370
This season, Arnie is regular left fielder on the Irish nine. At present he is batting .370. Only Palmisani, Dunn, and Kane have better averages than that. His fielding in the sun garden, while not spectacular, has been steady and dependable.
Arnie’s most thrilling moment and his most embarrassing moment are almost one and the same. They both came in the first Alumni game this spring. Billy Sullivan was at bat, and McGrath and Seidl, thinking he would hit to right center, shifted their position accordingly. Sullivan crossed them up and sent a liner along the left field foul line. Seidl dashed over, and after a beautiful bit of running, fielded the ball perfectly on the first bound. That was the most thrilling moment for he had apparently held what looked like a sure triple to a single.
Sully Takes Second
Thinking Sullivan would remain on first, Arnie, in his most leisurely fashion, threw the ball back to the infield. Sullivan took one look at the leisurely throw and dashed toward second. Coach Keogan took one look at the leisurely throw and sent another outfielder coming out and Seidl started for the Irish dugout. That was the most embarrassing moment.
While at McKinley High School of Marshfield, Seidl played football, basketball, and track. He was captain of both the basketball and track team.
Seidl is enrolled in the Department of Physical Education, and will graduate this June with a “cum laude” attached to his degree. He has acted as an interhall coach, and this fall was the leader of the Corby scoreless wonders, whose record included three scoreless ties. . . .
the 120 yard event. Both men were abreast most of the way down the trail until Jimmy stepped out with only one hurdle remaining. George Poredon finished third as did Fred MacBeth in the low barriers.
Vince Murphy had a very busy day. High jumping is the only role in which he had participated before Saturday when he took a hand at the shot put and javelin. Murph wasn’t able to heave the shot far enough to register but in the javelin he got off a throw of 151 feet which was good enough for third place. In his specialty, Vince won at 6 feet, 3 in.
Two New Men Score
Two new men broke into the scoring for Notre Dame. “Butch” Pfef-ferle overcame his fear of the circle in the discus throw and counted one point. Healy is the other stranger in the scoring column. He registered a third in the high jump.
Bill Howard ended his home career very auspiciously with a winning height of 12 feet in the pole vault. Jack Edwards and O’Dell tied for second place.
The old dependables, Charlie Finkel and Bill Freschi, garnered six points with a first and third respectively in the shot put. Eddie King walked away from the field in the mile run and crossed the line about 50 yards ahead of the two pursuing Pitt joggers.
The highly-touted Keller gave a brilliant demonstration in the 440 and half mile races, winning both events with ease. Clyde Roberts failed to overtake him in the shorter race and Ray Shields placed second to him in the 880.
Krause Wins Javelin
Big “Moose” Krause came out on top in the javelin with one of his best throws of the year, 171 feet, 6 inches.
Conley and Eddie Gough gave Mike Sebastian of football fame (remember. . .?) a lot to worry about in the broad jump. When the pit was finally deserted, Conley was credited with a winning jump of almost 22 feet and Gough was given the third berth.
The summaries:
POLE VAULT—Won by Howard (ND) ; O’Dell (P) and Edwards (ND), tied for second. Height, 12 feet.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Kraft (P) ; Seiffert (P), second; Pfefferie (ND), third. Distance, 139 feet, 7 inches.
Continued on Page 32)
May 26, 1933
Twenty-five
t?
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
MONTIE’S HEAVEN
If it’s a bet you’re after, the current odds are 100-1 that Captain John Montedonico’s idea of heaven is the 15th green on the University golf course; and that 12:25 p. m. is his favorite hour of the day.
On the last two Saturdays, in matches against Illinois and Chicago, Cap’n John has dropped shots on that green that came pretty close to perfection. Against Illinois two weeks ago he and . Johnny Banks were one down in their doubles match against Hoffman and Prey of the Hlini after 14 holes.
Coming to the fifteenth, Montie hit his drive to the left of the green, just at the edge of the rough. Faced with the necessity of clearing a shallow sand trap, he chipped his second shot calmly, dead on the flag all the way. It rolled across some fifteen feet of green and dropped to square the match. The church clock showed 12:25
When the hands had moved around to 12:25 last Saturday noon, Johnny was again at the left of the fifteenth green, just at the edge of the rough. He and Banks were again one down, this time to Howe and Mauerman of Chicago.
Johnny chipped his second shot calmly, dead on the flag all the way. It rolled across some fifteen feet of green and dropped to square the match.
LAST SHOT
Since this is the last “Splinters” of the year, and possibly the last that this writer will offer in The Scholastic, we want to give one last push to the No. 2 plank in our platform. (For the answer to the No. 1 plank, see page 20.)
The Michigan Normal tennis match last Sunday afternoon gave ample evidence that the Notre Dame squad needs more practice, which is to say, more room to practice. Or if the argument should be that four courts are enough for the varsity, how about the rest of the student body?
The fact that the numbers now patronizing the courts are comparatively small is directly traceable to the fact that there are but four courts. With eight or preferably, ten more courts on the campus, more tennis players would appear than any one would think possible from viewing the present situation.
We still have hopes that when we rock along Notre Dame avenue in the street car next September 11th we’ll see a new series of courts, well made, with not more than two courts to an enclosure of fence, and, maybe, two or four of the courts done in clay.
TENNIS TEAM LOSES
(Continued from Base 21)
a different tale. Brown won the first game, lost the second, and then swept through for five straight and the second set. In the third, after a 3-3 tie, Brown won three straight games and the match. The scores were 3-6, 6-1, 6-3.
Seton Staley of Notre Dame, the only Irish player to win his match, soundly trounced Arnold of Normal by scores of 6-1, 6-1. Staley hadn’t been playing good tennis this season, but found his stride in this match, and swept through to save the Irish from a white-washing. He won two love games in each set.
Irish Weak In Doubles
Notre Dame was helpless in the doubles and afforded little opposition to the Normal players. Chreist and Kelly were beaten by Carson and Botts of Michigan Normal by scores of 6-2, 6-1.
Staley and Power of Notre Dame lost to Brown and Schiltz of Normal by scores of 6-2, 6-2.
Summaries:
Singles: Carson (MN) defeated Chreist (ND) 6-3, 7-5; Schiltz (MN) defeated Lukats (ND) 5-7, 6-4, 6-2; Botts (MN) defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 5-7, 6-4, 6-3; Brown (MN) defeated Kelly (ND) 3-6, 6-1, 6-3; Staley (ND) defeated Arnold (MN) 6-1, 6-1.
Doubles: Carson and Botts (MN) defeated Chreist and Kelly (ND) 6-2, 6-1; Brown -and Schiltz (MN) defeated Staley and Power (ND) 6-2, 6-2.
You’ll do a lot more if you’re feeling fit. Athletics. Studies. When you’re clicking, you’re happy. And Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes are energy food.
Made of wheat. Nourishing. Packed with the flavor of Pep. Delicious with milk orcream. Plus enough extra bran to be mildly laxative.
Enjoy these better bran flakes every day — at breakfast. Excellent for the midnight snack too. Digest easily. Release nourishment quickly. You can get PEP wherever students eat. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
IRISH BEAT BUCKEYES
(Continued from Page 23)
ing their devastating work on Gilroy, his successor, by banging out five safe bingles for four more runs.
Ohio State scored single runs in the second, third, fourth and seventh. In the second, Hale opened the inning with a single, went to second on McAfee’s hit and scored on a single by Clowsen. Colburn opened the third with a single, went to second when Sagartz hit Lewis and come home on Hale’s single. In the fifth, Gilroy, who was safe on an error by Cunha, scored when Prosenjak drove a fine hit to left. The Big Ten team picked up its final tally in the enighth. Hale opened this frame with a triple and came home on McAfee’s infield out.
Captain Jim McGrath of the Irish took the fielding honors of the day with two circus catches in deep center field. Each of the balls he caught looked good for at least. a triple when it started toward the outfield.
Box score and summary:
Notre Dame (12) AB R H PO A E
Cunha, ss ........ 5	0	2	2	2	2
Kane, 2b ....... —	5	0	0	5	4	0
Seidl, If .........5	2	4	2	0	1
Rascher, rf.......5	3	1	1	1	0
Palmisani, 3b . — 3	1	1	1	3	0
Dunn, lb ..........4	2	4	9	1	0
McGrath, cf.......4	2	2	2	0	0
O’Neill, c ........4	1	1	4	0	0
Underkolfer c ____ 1	0	0	0	0	0
Sagartz, p ........3	1	2	0	0	0
Huisking, p .......1	0	1	1	0	0
40	12	18	27	10	3
LEMDNTREES
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□ .
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Ohio State (4) AB Prosenjak, rf _____4
Colburn, cf ......5
Lewis. 3b ........4
Hale. If .........4
McAfee, lb .......4
Clawsen, 2b ......4
Bayer, c .........4
Sharp, ss ........2
Blue, p ..........2
Gilroy, p ........2
35
Notre Dame .......... Ohio State ..........
R	H	PO A	E
0	2	2	0	0
112	0	0
0	0	12	0
2	3	0	0	0
0	2	10	0	1
0	2	110
0	0	4	2	0
0	0	111
10	2	10
0	0	110
4	10	24 S 2
200 244 00 X—12
0 11 100 10 0—4
Summary: Three-base hits — O’Neill, Huisking, Hale. Sacrifice hits — Dunn, McGrath. Stolen bases—Seidl, McGrath, Rascher. Hits— off Sagartz, 9 in 5 innings; off Huisking, 1 in 4 innings; off Blue, 12 in 2 and 2-3 innings ; off Gilroy, 6 in 2 and 1-3 innnigs. Base on balls—off Sagartz, 3; off Huisking, 1; off Blue, 1 : off Gilroy, 1. Struck out—by Sagartz. 1; by Huisking, 4: by Blue. 3. Hit by pitcher, Lewis by Sagartz. Wild pitches— Gilroy (2). Winning pitcher. Sagartz. Losing pitcher—Blue. Double plays—Palmisani to Kane to Dunn.
GOLFERS WIN ANOTHER
(Continued from Page 22)
turned in the best Chicago score, 7982—161.
Captain Johnny Montedonico played the most spectacular golf of the day. On the fifteenth hole in the morning round he duplicated his feat of last week by holing out an approach shot from the edge of the rough for a bridie two.
After Howe and Mauennann had halved the first nine with Banks and Montedonico, they went two up, and it
took some outstanding playing by the Irish golfers to take the decision. Banks reduced the margin on the fourteenth with a twenty-foot putt for a birdie, Montedonico made his great play on the fifteenth, and on the sixteenth, both Banks and Montedonico scored par fives to gain the victory.
The summary:
Best ball foursomes: Montedonico, 76, and Banks, 74, defeated Howe, 79, and Mauermann, 81, 2%-%; Fehlig, 80, and Veeneman, 79, defeated Baker, 84, and Smith, 89, 3-0.
Singles matches: Banks 38, 37—75, defeated Mauermann 44, 43—87, 3-0. Montedonico 39, 38 — 77, defeated Howe 43, 38—82, 3-0. Cole 39, 35— 74, defeated Baker 42, 36—78, 3-0. Martin 41, 39—80, defeated Smith 44, 41—85, 3-0.
INTERHALL LEAGUE
(Continued from Page 23)
of Group II all forfeited their games to Howard, Freshman and Alumni.
Badin 8, Dillon 7
Two runs in the first half of the last inning gave the nine from Badin an 8 to 7 victory over the freshman from Dillon. Dillon was the first of the two teams to score as they garnered five tallies in their half of the first inning, they also grabbed two more riiarkers in the last half of the fourth stanza. Besides their two runs in the last inning Badin also scored six runs in their half of the fourth inning. Score:
Badin___________0 0 0 6 0 0 2—8
Dillon__________5 0 0 2 0 0 0—7
Batteries: Carroll and Buckley; Kelly and Sheehan.
Corby 11, St. Edward’s 4
Mahoney, pitching for the seniors from Corby, had the soph’s from St. Ed’s under his wing all afternoon as he allowed them but four runs during the course of the seven inning fracas. Corby___________1 0 0 0 7 0 3—11
St. Edward’s 0 0 2 0 0 0 2— 4 Batteries: Mahoney and Levstick; Brown and Emmerling.
Morrissey 6, Lyons 0
The winning of this game gave Morrissey the undisputed lead in their group. Morrissey found little opposition from the nine from Lyons, and Nuss, hurling for the league leaders, let Lyons down without a run, while his team collected six markers. Score:
Morrissey ______3 3 0 0 0 0 0—6
Lyons___________0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0
May 26, 1933
Twenty-seven
IRISH TRACK TEAM TO COMPETE IN STATE MEET
Expect Hard Fight for Second Place With Purdue.
Twenty-three Notre Dame athletes are scheduled to take part in the State track meet at Indianapolis tomorrow afternoon. Coach Nicholson figures his charges are going to fight it out with the Boilermakers of Purdue for second place while the Hoosiers from Bloomington are scheduled to walk away with things.
Indiana will be led by such men as Fuqua and Hornbostel, two aces who have had a great deal to do with the Hoosiers capturing second place in the Big Ten meet last Saturday at Evanston.
“Nick” had much praise for the spectacular exhibition turned in by Joe Young against Pittsburgh last week. He said it was one of the greatest bits of courage he had seen in quite a while.
Dilling, Murphy In Sprints
Leo Dilling and Fran Murphy will take care of the sprints downstate tomorrow, with Jim Bowdren pitted against the Indiana ace, Fuqua. Eddie King, running in the mile, will draw Charles Hornbostel as his worthy opponent. Jim Shields and Clyde Roberts will perform in the half mile run for Notre Dame.
George Poredon, Jimmy Fagan, and Captain Fred MacBeth will do the hurdling for the Irish. Vince Murphy, who has had quite a bit of trouble with an injured ankle received in the Drake Relays when he struck an obstacle in the pit, is still limping a bit and displaying a taped ankle. Murphy will be teamed with Gene Healey in the festivities tomorrow.
Eddie Gough and Conley will compete in the broad jump, and Howard, Jack Edwards, and Beanie Cavender will do the vaulting. Ed Krause and Bill Walsh are going to vie with Purvis of Purdue in the javelin: The Boilermaker mainstay won the Big Ten championship in this event recently. Charlie Finkel, Bill Freschi, and Dick Pfefferle will be out for points in the shot put and discus throw. Pfefferle will be teamed with Finkel’ and Vince Murphy in the javelin.
Joe Young and Norman Duke complete the list of Notre Dame entries. Their cue is the call for the two mile run.
Prof. Moley Comes. Home for High School Talk
Olmsted Falls, Ohio.—A home town boy who made good—Prof. Raymond Moley, No. 1 man in President Roosevelt’s “brain trust”—will deliver the Olmsted Falls High School commencement address on June 8.
The school auditorium, where exer
sure, dollar-saving trqi
GO BY MODERN GREYHOUND BUS
Here’s a pipe for a low-cost, comfortable, enjoyable trip home at school closing! Would you choose a more expensive, less convenient way Y"sn ^1S ®reat dependable system offers finest parlor coaches, frequent GZ.Iy cc-iedules, nation-wide service, and beautiful scenic routes ... all
for 25 to 40 per cent under other travel costs? Not if you rate a first class I. Q.
Sample Fares
Detroit ........$	3.50
Cincinnati .... 6.50
Cleveland ...... 6.50
New York _______14.50
Pittsburgh _____ 8.50
THE VACATION VISIT CHICAGO
cises will be held, seats only 400 or 500, so attendance will be by invitation only.
Prof. Moley was bom in Berea, near here, and received his grammar school education partly there and partly here. He graduated from Olmsted Falls High School and soon after, in 1906, became' superintendent of the school.
Buffalo .
Boston . Columbus
$10.00
17.50
6.30
Washington .. 13.50
Philadelphia .. 13.75
OF A LIFETIME! WORLD'S FAIR.
The amazing, colorful World’s Fair opens in Chicago June 1. You can’t afford to miss it . . . you don’t have to! Greyhound offers finest service, at special rates from all cities.
ALL-EXPENSE TOURS « «	‘“"J
for illustrated booklet, details of complete 4 and 7 day All-Expense tours to the Exposition. Save hours and dollars in Chicago, insure desirable accommodations at reasonable rates.
Union Bus Depot. 133 S. Lafayette Blvd.. Tel. 3-8283 University of Notre Dame Book Store Louis Alaman, 364 Morrissey Bob Chenal, 349 Alumni
GREYHOUND
Copyright, 1933, 11. J. Koynolda Tobacco Company
THAT'S DONE ON THE PRINCIPLE OF THE OLD NEEDLE TRICK,MABEL
HOW IN THE WORLD DOES HE DO IT, FRED ?
_i£.
THEBLA DES HE REALLY PUTS' INH/S. MOUTH ARE ALREADY THREADED. : . "
EXCHAM3W& THE LOOSE BLA DES FOR THEM
NOW PLAYING—
lough Tongue Threads Razor Blades

HE HAS A SET OF very dull blades ALL THREADED AND HIDDEN IN
A SLOT IN THE SPOOL OF THREAD.
HE PALMS THE FIRST SET OF
BLADES AND PUTS THE threaded
BLADES IN HIS MOUTH.
2
PAEM/HGTHE LOOSE BLADES,
GOOD TASTE IN A ClG-ARETTE COMES EROIV) FINER, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS. THAT'S WHY I SMOKE CAMELS.TRYONE
to Know
j "lT$ FUN TO BE if f FOOLED.. . IT'S
MORE FUN TO
. KNOW I”
MATCHLESS BLEND
I enclose fronts from 5 Camel packs. Send postpaid Free Magic Book.
Street_________________________________________________________________
FREE., send no moneu.. FREE. 36-mge illustrated MAGIC BOOK CONTAINING 23 MYSTIFYING CIGARETTE, CARD, AND COIN TRICKS. YOU CAN FOOL THOSE "WISE GUYS * THAT KNOW	■
WHY NOT? THEY SAY MY KINO TASTES BETTER.

FRED, I DO LIKE YOUR CAMELS BETTER. WHAT IS IT THAT THE ADS SAY ABOUT CIGARETTE MAGIC 2
Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand. Try Camels. Let your taste respond to the flavor of real tobacco quality! You will begin to realize the truth of the saying: "It’s the tobacco that counts!”
(items)
IT ALL, WITHOUT SKILL OR PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE. MAILTHE ORDER BLANK AT RIGHT WITH THE FRONTS FROM FIVE PACKS OF CAMELS.
|___City.
State.
J
NO TRICKS IN CAMELS—JUST COSTLIER TOBACCOS
Thirty
The Scholastic
--------------- <
MAN ABOUT: WOODS
(Continued from Pase 8)
gram “High Jinks” is second in merit only to the late Mr. Ziegfeld’s Follies. The pen is mightier than the stethe-scope.
Tighe’s activities about the campus are prone to be journalistic, albeit he is president of “the much abused International Relations Club” (his own phrase), also serves on the executive committee of the Chicago Club, but aside from these two exceptions he is
Taking this opportunity
c
to wish every Student and Faculty Member of the University a most enjoyable summer vacation.
—And may we sincerely thank you for your patronage during the passing school term, both at our downtown store and campus shop.
Hoping that we may see you soon this fall—
Headquarters for University Meh
completely absorbed in his life work. His bird’s eye views have led him to write Keyhole Portraits of well known campus characters in the Juggler for the last two years. In The Scholastic, Tighe reflects a popular optimistic spirit. At least, he reflects. One way of getting information across to the students is to give it to Tighe. “The Week” is on 3 bulletin that is read.
For more practical experience in his chosen field, Tighe contributes his journalistic efforts to the South Bend
News-Times. He believes this apprenticeship will do much toward learning the business from the ground up, as it were. He is right, undoubtedly. The first rung in the ladder of his ascent was the directorship of' publicity for the Monogram show this spiing, which show played to capacity houses on three different occasions.
Visits St. Mary’s
Those curiosity filled gentlemen (and ladies) who read “Men About” to the place where some remark is made, about the subject’s amorousness, may turn to the College Parade columns now, for, with a single indication that Tighe is an unflagging caller at St. Mary’s, I’ll say no more about it. Possibly, I should because Mr. Woods is one of the few seniors who knows exactly what he is going to do upon graduation. His job is cinched, and it is work he intends to make a life-time proposition. He will be about two jumps ahead of the rest of his classmates when Commencement is over and caps and gowns are moth-balled away indefinitely. But that is a characteristic of Tighe: he attains his ends smoothly, quietly, and with facility.
The sublime and the ridiculous are as closely related in students as in other types. The most august campus leaders are not, or were not, immune to a little “goofing,” and Tighe’s came in his freshman year when a five-dollar wager prompted him to wear a fur coat at a football game. At the half, the student section kept hollering for Woods’ story of how he killed the bear. He won the five dollars, however, and here the story ceases to be ridiculous but reaches the sublime. Five dollars and goofing are irreconciliable—at Notre Dame at any rate.
Wants Golf Monogram
Tighe Woods is actively promoting what he terms a hobby, but what might be called an obsession with him —and that is a keen desire to see members of the golf team wear major monograms. He bases his arguments on the fact that if merit and brilliant playing are to be rewarded adequately, the golf team should be placed on a par with the major athletic teams so far as remuneration in the forms of monograms is concerned.
Since this issue of The Scholastic is probably the last of the current year, it is appropriate to publish a brief word picture of a man who is likewise finishing the last chapter— of a . nine-chapter book. ■ Nine. years
May 26, 1933
Thirty-one
of active, whole-hearted Notre Dame life have qualified this man to represent Notre Dame wherever he is. While reflecting on seniors who you think are most likely slated for success, put Tighe Woods high on your list, and let his undergraduate life be your reason.
Utah Freshmen, Sophomores ' To Whitewash Mountain
Salt Lake City, Utah.—One of the big events of the year at the University of Utah is the annual U Whitewash.
Near the summit of a high hill overlooking the university campus, university students some years ago made a hugh letter U on the sloping ground. Each year the two lower classes assemble and march in squads to the U with whitewash pails in hand, and for another year the great U can be seen for miles, gleaming white against the green and brown background of the mountain.
STRATIGON "South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD"
114 N. Michigan
□ .
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
FACTORY
CANCELLATIONS
of Famous Brands—$7-$8-$9 Values
3.89
A light-weight buckskin shoe you will want for summer.
One of many of the newest Spring Models in either white, black or two-tone dress or sports.
QUALITY is our BYWORD
Famous Brands $4 to $5 Values
Black, Tan or Sport Oxfords
YOU KNOW YOUR SPORTS. WE KNOW YOUR SHOES . . . and would like to save you one-third to one-half on your next pair.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame
■. Students Meet”
Open 24 Hours.
GIL-BROS
330 South Michigan Street
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Advertising?
On Down The Line!
Fred MaeB«th^=ss^^==J
The EL PASO TENNIS CLUB abandoned its usual spring tennis tournament this year because it could not afford to put out §150 for balls . . . there are about HALF A MILLION GOLFERS who are members of clubs in the BRITISH ISLES, and they play something ’ like 25,000 rounds a year, yet the BRITISH PROFESSIONALS ARE POORLY PAID in comparison with the U. S. pros . . . over there a weekly wage of $25 is exceptional . . . the average is probably less than $10 . . . baseball clubs furnish players with two suits . . . but make them leave a deposit of $30.
was a pitcher at BROOKLYN PREP . . . the team’s second baseman made five consecutive errors and the coach sent McAVOY in to play second base . . . MAC struck out on three pitched balls the first time up . . . with the other side at bat, there was a man on	*
first and one out . . . the batter hit a fast ground ball' to MAC ... he fielded it cleanly, but on his way to force the runner at second his cap blew off ... he stopped, picked up his cap, put it on, touched second base and threw out the batter at first for	(
a double play . . . and if you don’t believe the story, just call at 209 WALSH HALL.
TRACK TEAM WINS
(Continued from Page 24)
Frederick C. Kendall, editor of Advertising & Seiling, says, "Advertising is still young. Yet it is already a vital part of every . important industry. The professional advertising man must be not only a thoughtful student of human nature, but also a student of all American business.”
"^PARKING” ideas are the life O blood of advertising. That’s why advertising men, as well as college men, turn to a pipe. For a good pipe with the right tobacco is man’s first-aid to dear thinking and wisdom. As for the "right tobacco” — that’s Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco.*
Just one puff will tell you why. It’s that truly individual blend of fine old hurleys—a blend you find only in Edgeworth. Once you try Edgeworth, nothing less will do. Want to try before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes —15^ pocket package to pound _ humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tinsi
ALABAMA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE (AUBURN) has lost only two dual track meets in the past eleven years . . . THOMAS E. WILSON, president of a packing firm that bears his name, recently paid $500 for a set of golf clubs . . . WILSON is a southpaw and special left-handed dies had to be made . . . BOULDER CITY, which came into existence with the big dam, has an indoor baseball league called the “BOULDER CITY BEER LEAGUE” . . . teams in the league include the PENCIL PUSHERS, the TRUCK NURSES, the HASH SLINGERS and the SOAP-AND-SOCK SALESMEN. . . .
Authorities at LYNN (Mass.) HIGH SCHOOL have ordered expulsion for any student caught jumping fences or spying through knot-holes at baseball games . . . there seems to be another crop of sensational sprinters on the PACIFIC COAST . . . FRANK WYKOFF ran the hundred in 9.5 in a recent meet at SANTA BARBARA and barely nosed out DON PLUMB, POMONA COLLEGE, and JIMMY LU-VALLE of U. C. L. A.. .'. in a special race for junior collegians, BILL THOMS, VENTURA J. C., ran the hundred in 9.6 ... in the same meet, JOE FORBES, of OCCIDENTAL, broke HERMAN BRIX’S WORLD RECORD FOR THE EIGHT-POUND SHOT with a throw of 69 feet 4% inches . . . FORBES’ first throw was 71 feet 3 inches, but examination proved the shot to be one ounce underweight.
JOHN McAVOY, who lives in WALSH HALL at NOTRE DAME,
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) : Nelson (P), second; Healey (ND), third. Height, 6 feet, 3 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel (ND) ; Bona-vita (P), second; Freschi (ND, third. Distance, 45 feet, 2 inches.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) ; Kirkpatrick (P), second; Wagenhouser (P), third. Time, 4:24.7.
440 YARD RUN—Won by Keller (P) ; Roberts (ND), second; Kiger (P), third. Time, :50.5.
100-YD DASH—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Jacobson (P), second; Fleming (P), third. Time, :10.
120-YD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND); Guay (P), second; Poredon (ND), third. Time, :16.1.
880-YD RUN—Won by Keller (P) ; Watkins (P), second; Shields (ND), third. Time, 1:58.6.
JAVELIN THROW — Won by Krause (ND) ; Gongloff (P), second; V. Murphy (ND), third. Distance, 171 feet, 6 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Conley (ND) ; Sebastian (P), second;' Gough (ND), third. Distance, 21 feet, 101-8 inches.
220-YD. DASH—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Dilling (ND), second; Kiger (P), third. Time, :22.6.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Young (ND) ; Clise (P), second; Albright (P), third. Time, • 9:50.
220-YD. LOW HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND); Guay (P), second; MacBeth (ND), third. Time, :26.
Frank Maher, Elected N. Y.
Capitol Club President
The Capitol District Club of New York elected Frank ’Maher, of Troy, New York president by a unanimous vote at a meeting held this week.
William Casazza was elected secretary of the club. With no opposition, this office became his by virtue of his - nomination. Casazza is from Albany, New York. James McGuire was elected vice-president.
Frank Kelly was elected treasurer. . Kelly is from Albany.
►
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY		
		
(Office 4-5661	X-ray Phone	_ .... ^Residence 3-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
		
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Shetland Building Jefferson and Michigan Hours |10	12 m- (3 to 5 p. in.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entists ' Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
		
Space Reserved	-	FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. *	University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
< !
It’s no wonder your cigarettes are good
Tobacco now makes up one-fifth of all the exports of the Republic of Turkey. From the districts famous for producing the finest Turkish, most of the crop is shipped to this country.
The reason Americans go so far for a special kind of tobacco is...
FLAVOR. For when real Turkish is left out you miss its rich, spicy taste and rare aroma.
In Chesterfield the right amounts of the right kinds of Turkish are cross-blended with mild, ripe domestic tobaccos. You can taste the difference.
Chesterfield
za	MMer ~t/u, cigarette, ~t£atr Tartu Betti