i ■	.	-	.	,	'	.
|	- ^Cbe^ •	'■■■
Dotre Dame Scholastic
/
- -DlSCS-QVASI-SemPGR-VICTVRVS- • VIVG -^VASI-CRAS-IMORITVRVS-' ' >
Vol. L.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 28, 1916.	No. 6.	»
Laetare Medal.
• EMMET G. LENIHAN, ’15.
ON Sunday, May 17, 190S, the University of Notre Dame observed the Silver Jubilee of the Laetare Medal. The occasion brought together a distinguished group of leaders, lay and ecclesiastical. The sermon, which was a part of the religious observance of the Jubilee, was preached by the Rev. Dr. John Talbot Smith. The text usecl^by Dr. Smith well illustrates the purpose of the Laetare Medal and the forces that actuated the men of this University when in 1883 it was decided to grant some formal recognition to the leaders of the Catholic laity throughout the United States, “Let us now praise men of renown, and our fathers in their generation— such as have borne rule in their dominions men of great power, and imbued with their wisdom, showing' forth in the prophets the dignity of prophets, rich men in virtue studying beautifulness; living at peace in their houses. Let the people show forth-their wisdom and the Church declare their praise.” (Eccle. xliv.)
1 The Laetare Medal was born of a chance discussion among several^ members of the faculty- as to how the University could best stimulate the laity of- the United States to undertake great things for religion and country, how honor the silent, almost neglected champions, the Catholic men and women who have spent themselves in patriotic and noble accomplishments. The name of the Medal, together with the ceremonies associated with it, was the result of a plan outlined by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Rev. Thomas Walsh, then "President of the University, and Professor James Edwards.	"
The idea, though a new one in this country, was modelled after'an ancient custom known as ' the confirming of the golden Rose. From time
immemoiial, some say from the days of Charle- . magne, it was the practice of the Popes to honor f distinguished persons or places by granting I them a golden Rose, blessed by the Holy- \ Father. Pope Leo IX, in 1051, speaks of this as I an ancient institution. So it was thought" 1 proper that in a school whose traditions were I the traditions of the ancient Church its greatest | honor should find its sanction in the hallowed way. This new distinctive, however, was to pass by the crowned heads of kings and queens. 1 It was reserved for those who had been crowned I	-
with the honor of a righteous'life; those who /	>
had won prominence among the laity; the I shining lights whose lives had been. lived jn I conformity with the principles of Christian / morality and genuine v citizenship; to men • “studying beautifillness, living at peace in their homes.” It was hoped, nevertheless, ’ that the effect would be the same, that the \ prayer accompanying the bestowal of the | -golden Rose would likewise find itself realized / in the recipient of the Laetare Medal. “ Receive 7 from our'hands this rose, beloved son,, who I according to the world art noble, valiant, and \ endowed with great powers, that you may be J still more ennobled by every* virtue from Christ, । as a rose planted near the streams of many I waters.”
As the practice of conferring the Laetare > Medal is an adaptation of the more ancient / custom of conferring the golden Rose, so too |> -the day chosen for the announcement of the \ recipient is the same,—the fourth Sunday in / Lent. The Introit in the Mass for that day \ begins with the word “Laetare,” hence the 1 name given to the decoration.	A
The Medal itself is of heavy gold with black \	-
enamel tracings. The bar from which the / disc is suspended is lettered “Laetare Medal.” \ On the obverse side are the words “Magna J est yeritas et praevalebit.” “Truth is mighty I and shall prevail.” On the reverse side ..are I written the names of the University and of the . I .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '	"	.
recipient. In former years it was the ^custom ‘ to accompany the presentation of the medals ' with an illuminated address setting forth the
purpose of the Medal and the reasons for that particular choice. This practice was discontinued after 1908- and a simple form adopted of reading a similar address at the time of the,, presentation. "
Naturally, there was some discussion regard-ingf the one who was ,to be chosen as the first of Catholic laymen. Had Orestes A. Brownson lingered but for a few years longer there is no doubt but that-he would have been the favored one.- Close to Brownson, stood another grand
figure in the Catholic world, the chronicler of the public. A great journalist and a man of
. the Church in America, as saintly as he was scholarly, John Gilmary Shea, and to. him fell the distinction of being the first to wear the’ Laetare Medal. In this, the first year of the . medals’ history, the. presentation took place on Laetare Sunday, March 4, 1SS3, in New 1 York City. The presentation was made, by Maurice Francis Egan, then associate editor of the-Freeman’s-Journal. The address-took the form of Latin verses written by the Rev. Stanislaus Fitte,.C. S. C. The document was
' beautifully decorated by Professor Gregori;,.
. . In many respects this first giving of the Medal of those’ who' have been signalled out by the
John Gilmary Shea, as the first Laetare Medalist, meant undying lustre to the men and women to , . be favored in the future by the highest tribute ...the University could offer. So too. the words . J he spoke on tile day he was thus honored might " well be attributed to those who have joined him in the glorious ranks of America’s favored sons and daughters; “Love of .the Church; love of < my country, these, indeed I have, and as I have labored animated by them, I- receive -with the .deepest respect thehonor you confer - on me, as a tribute to them.” - \ '	-
7 The next to . be honored- by the' University ■
was Patrick J.-Keeley, the architect. When	. promoter of high J ideals in the’ drama;.
he-received the Medal, in 4884, he had already . 1895 Mrs.. James-Sadlier,’/writer of, beautiful erected .over:, seven hundred churches, through- ~	7 ././Catholic^	_< . -
out the United States^ The practice of engrav-- 1896 /General William; S.. Rosecrans, :the_ ing. on The .Medal some apt(phrase.- indicating / ’’ - ■' leaderof. the Army of /the Cii’mberlahd; the.7 activities .of. the Medalist isyweff illustrated .189^ /. Dr./Tho'mas/Addis/Eminet, distinguished ' inithe /words found - on /Mr. /(Keeley’s.. Medal: 1	~	. j ■*X	~ 'S' -< -	’A-'	" ”
“.Fiat; pax in 7^	abundantia

iii turribus tuis,£—‘ ‘ Let peace be in th^ strength nndy^tmdance im^^	.
7:<i|p?heifirsti jwas|J^ssfBliza7AR^^
educate the people of herTday to the beauties of Christian art. . -	’
. In 1.8861 the. honor was awarded to General John Newton, a -great army , engineer. The man - who- constructed the defenses about Washington during the Civil- War. and later won fame by his engineering exploits at Hell Gate, New York. „
Former records of the Laetare Medal have passed over, in silence the year-188’7. In that year the faculty acted in the, customary way and awarded the Medal, but-’ cthe name of their choice was never made known. For twenty-nine years his. .name . has ■ been 'withheld from
-unquestioned leadership, he nevertheless asked that the honor be withheld, and his name kept secret. A convert to Catholicity, he had vowed never to accept any honor or. distinction but to labor unnoticed for the spread of the Catholic faith. Th^’University appreciated the delicate situation and declined to make.another choice for that year. And now, his vow. fulfilled, we should give him his proper place.in the charmed circle,- truly one of the noblest of noble men, Edward Preuss, of . St Louis. ’
Next followed,, in order of time, the names
University as worthy of the highest honor: 1888 Patrick N- Hickey,- founder of the . ,	.. Catholic Review; ,
1889 Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey, novelist;
1890 William J. Onahan, organizer of the first-■ American’Catholic Congress;’ .
1891 7 Daniel - Dougherty, the greatest .orator ‘	. of his.time;	\	•
1892
1893
Henry F.‘Brownson author and philo's-
. opher, and .editor .dHthe works of his distinguished5 father; ..	.	.
Patrick; Donahue,: the founder. .of 'the.
Boston Pilot; _ , ..	7	' .	.
1894. August inDaly,theatricalmanager: and
: . ■ A-77?urgebn-and/authdr of(importarit.medi^ /
-	-	: r./cal.; studies, ?^ahd5rnephewy of , -Robert
-	’• A Jpmmett;' - /■tp	7,a>X '-Ty L
i 8 98 .ApnipthyG^	wrist, mein- > 7/
A-<TLsy.beriofythi^Supf^
AAAL7/and';com	/
T


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1899 * Mary Gwendolin Caldwell, whose bene-
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
190/
factions made possible the beginnings of the Catholic Uni versit}’;
John A. Creighton, philanthropist .and founder of Creighton University;
William Bourke- Cockran, the stirring orator;	•	'	'
Dr. John B. Murphy, America’s greatest surgeon; -- -	-	'
Charles J.. Bonaparte, noted lawyer and attorney - general - under President Roosevelt;	.	, ‘ :
Richard C. Kerens, a kindly philanthropist and former Ambassador to Austria;
Thomas B.. Fitzpatrick, prominent business man of Boston and known as the friend of the poor;
Dr. Francis Quinlan, a medical specialist of international fame; -
Katherine B. Conway, author, 'the disci-
giants, is the purpose of the. Laetare Medal:: that those who do rise - may be justly honored, “for it is a high arid excellent thing to. be able to recognize , true worth.’’ ?(Bp.
Spalding.)	...	• -
Trust or Friendship.
E- J- McOSKER.
Jack Harding arose, from his bed. Though.it was long past midnight, a disturbed mind caused each step of the pedestrians on the street.below to sound as though it was at his very ear, and the rumble of the motors of the taxicabs carrying home the. late, revellers jarred his^every. sense.
For a long time, Jack gazed at the sleeping form of his room-mate. ’There was not,a stir? Williams, apparently unmindful, of the worries that beset his. boon companion, was enjoying
pie of John Boyle O’Reilly and one his rest in a. way that Harding envied; -
.ss

1908
1909
1910
1911 191^
of the makers of the Pilot and the
Reptthlic;	- -
James C. Monaghan, noted lecturer and - leader in the consular service of the United States;	.
-Frances Tiernan (Christian Reid), _ a leader in Catholic literary circles;.
Maurice Francis Bgan, noted teacher - and writer, at present the American minister to Denmarks ’ ' .
Agnes Repplier, distinguished essayist;
Thomas -B.^Mulry, prominent charity
Finally, Jack sighed heavily, threw his bath.-’, robe across his shoulders and walked slowly into; the adjoining room. Mechanically he filled?his pipe and struck a match to light the tobacco.; Hq had taken one puff, when there came from the sleeping room, a long, low- moan;" Had anyone been near Jack, he would have seen,-in. the light of the match still held 'close to the? smoker’s face, a startling change. The look of worry, gave way to ,one:of intense fear;, every muscle tightened and the lips .trembled'

,1 worker, at the time of his decoration' -head of the St. Vincent de Paul Society;
1913 Charles ’ B. Herbermann, the' blind
. scholar, - and editor-in-chief of the ; room.
violently.	,	. N
“Money, money, money-”.
From Williams’ mouth came the. words.'. " Harding dropped the match, laid his. pipe on. the table and walked back1 into the 'sleeping
-■s
,	. - Catholic Encyclopedia; .	-	.
1914 ■ Bdward Douglas White, chief-justide of ’ the United States; ? -	,
1915 Miss-Mary V. Merrick,, who though .
J --heavily burdened with bodily afflic-. tions, . founded, and still supervises, the work of Christ Child Society.
To-night another Jink is added to that chain
“Yes, I’ve got it—More, you say?-?—What can you ask, man?-—Harding? No, he; won’t tell—Yes, here’s every,cent of it.” - .
Harding bit his lips 'as the sleeper ..continued his broken, talk.	. . \ .1
Suddenly Williams stirred. He arose from, his


bed and walked* towards the mantlepiece. ,31
_	“You- don’t- believe .it?: 'Well,; here’s .every
. , tof illustrious names; the honored ones who are cent.’^» . .. '	- .	<	-J W;
' . thus told, that a whole people thanks, them and	Moving a vase from its position, he..picked'
will never forget. <' To-day the honor of the .	up a roll of ..bills and held it out toward -am
DaetareMedal is even more-great-and .singular imaginary companion. Then, without another than on the day of its founding.' “The Church	word, he put the money back, got into, bed and
/	will riot be judged byithe mem she has produced.	resumed his disturbed sluniber./3:
but by the mem she is producing,” (Bp: Davis.) Harding had stood. 1^
/ That;, men ymiay	bed.;/Then^ his? anger? mustered:



•4> v -

* % -
34	'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	"
him. With an ejaculation, he strode across the '	room, flashed on the electric light, picked up the
roll of bills and started toward his companion’s bed: But just as he was about to awaken . Williams, some thought stopped him. He stood still for a full minute, then turned around ■	slowly, Teplaced the bills, put out the light,
walked back into the reading room and sat . down to resuine his smoke.	,
Jack Harding was a college graduate. For the past year, he had been private secretary to W. J. Brown, president of a big furniture corporation. He had started out as a salesman ' for the company- and within three months had become auditor. Brown, however, liked Harding’s business ability and picked him as^ his secretary at the end of a year. In this position Hardin? had become" an invaluable aid to the president.
Russell Williams had been Harding’s friend " in youth. When Harding went to college, Williams began business life in New York. He , had been successful and through rapid advance , had become department manager for the same concern wliich employed Harding.
'	A month before the night in question the
treasurer of the New York office of the company had resigned. Broken health was the cause of / \ his resignation and his sickness necessitated his - immediate departure to a suitable climate. Consequently, the affairs of the company were left quite tangled, with the appointment of a - ' new treasurer an impossibility because of the importance and responsibility of the position.
There was considerable surprise manifested in the office' when President Brown asked his young secretary to audit all of the company’s books personally. Harding was surprised ■ -himself, but he went, at the task willingly.
'	It was tliis task that brought. one of the'
'	. . greatest trials of the young man’s life.
- > - He had gone through the books of every-mother department when he reached those of Williams. Careful figuring, showed a deficit of . .	$5,000. Harding wasAhunderstruck. ' “ Williams
; :	. .is as honest as. could be;, he wouldn’t steal the
. v . .. -money,’’ the secretary reasoned//Feverishly hex ■ .went over the books, again, and repeated the -	. act .again and agaih^ but the figures, inevitably
.	"W- showed the. same;result. .	' /	- ' '	■-
ty y "y? 'Jack’s feelings were further disturbed by the , J; J. . Hact that1 Williams had often evaded his company JtyT... , at night of late, whereas, in other- days, the two yNyty hadbeen inseparable. Then, three nights
before, Harding had heard Williams rave in his sleep. But tonight’s action capped the climax. Immediate action was necessary. ■
“A few weeks ago everything was so pleasant,” Harding thought, as he puffed slowly at his pipe. ‘‘What more could a fellow ask? /Here we were, two pals, both getting along nicely in the same concern. Then the two sisters came into our lives. Oh, it’s, hard.” ?
Jack and Williams had met. sisters. Love had-folio wed,, with the resulting engagements, and plans had been completed for a double wedding in the near future.. The path of happiness had' been strewn with flowers until the audit of the books.
“What can I do?” mused Jack. “If I expose Williams, what will I be, a cad? If I don’t, I i will be a traitor to my employer; Am I to think of the future of the girls and ‘Russ’, or am I to lose all happiness?”
' The remainder of the night went slowly, but by morning Harding had resolved on a course of action.	..	*
Harding and Williams ate breakfast alone.
“‘Russ,’” began Harding, after they had eaten in silence for several minutes, “what ' would you say of a fellow who discovered a friend "doing crooked work and exposed him?”
Williams’ face took on an expression that Harding had never before seen there.
“Why,” he snarled, “he’d, be a skunk, that’s all.” '	.
Harding paled, but he was in the fight now and he. must stay. .	-	-
‘ ‘ What about the trust that had been placed in him?” .	,	'	•
“Why, you fool, what are a few dollars out of a corporation’s pocket, when compared to real friendship ?”>	,	-	,
“Williams,” asked Harding firmly, “why did you take that $5,000?”	...
“What.do you mean? You’re insulting me.”
Jack was. now leaning across the table. His fists were clenched, his jaw set and his eyes narrowed. . . . . , ■ z .
Williams wavered under his glance.
“Why do you want to know?” he.faltered.
. .‘‘‘I . won’t ask you any. more questions,” hurled back Harding, “ but if every cent of that money is. not. back in- its proper place within two days, I’ll.expose you.”	.
: .‘ ‘ You will ? ’’. Williams sneered, his composure-recovered. ' A	about my girl—your
/AN/ . -	? -■
- NA -'Nz TN	f ’---- iNLtTNN'fc

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Laughing, he turned on his heel and left the'room. An angiy retort arose to Harding’s ' ,lips, but he checked it and watched Williams as he donned his hat and coat and went out of ; the house.	-	"
That night Harding followed his room-mate^ He saw Williams walk boldly into the office, remove money from the safe and leave again. He followed him as he boarded a car and rode to the west end of the city. He trailed him over fields and through a boggy swamp, to an old deserted shack.
A dim light was burning in the building and two figures sat at a table. .
Williams gave three raps at the door and was admitted. Throwing off his* outer coat, he
■ removed from ,a pocket of his big roll of bills'. _
“How much have you got?” the men.
“Why, $6,000, just-what you . “Is Harding wise?”
inside coat a
asked one of
asked for.”
“I guess he is, but it matters little to me. I’ve got him by the neck. You know what a girl means to a young fool in love.”
Harding’bit his lips to keep back angry words.
Williams laid the money on the table and .arose as if to go.	•	.
But Jack was determined. He smashed the
glass in the been looking a revolver.
“Williams,
window through which he had
and
put
in your pocket,”
covered the three men with
that' money, every bit of it, he comman'ded. * -	.
Hesitatingly, Russell did so.
Then Harding threw a rope into the room.
‘‘Bind those men together and bind them - his employer’s gaze.
tight; then tie them to the floor.”
When the order was executed, Harding called to Williams to come outside. At the point of ' gun, he marched him to.the car line. They boarded-a car together and Jack put away his revolver. When they reached the business district, he took his companion by the arm and led him to the office. '
“Put that money back in the safe,” he said.
“No,” replied Williams, revolting once more. • Harding pulled out his revolver.	- -
“Do as I tell you or I will telephone for the police.”	. '
. Harding had . no more than completed the sentence when the door opened and President
Brown walked in., He saw Williams with a “Yes.”	• y
roll of bills.-in his. hand, Harding sitting at a ; “Say, .weren’t you really sleeping last night'
desk with one -hand on a telephone receiver ; and the other holding a revolver leveled at his .
companion.\	\ ?
' “Why, what’s the meaning of this?” he asked. '
Harding rose hastily -and put' the revolver ' into his pocket.	'	.
“There was a shortage in Williams’ accounts and he remembered having left the missing ; ' money in another place. We went out to get.it; -that’s all.” K	.
“But why the revolver?”	’
“We were afraid we might be attacked on
the way in.” -	’	.	_ .	-
“But you had it pointed at Williams*” , “I know,” laughed Harding nervously. . “I .
was just telling him what I would do if I saw . -a burglar at work here.” ' '	'	.
‘‘By the way, Jack,” continued Mr. Brown - -apparently believing the tale, “you’re to be married soon, I believe.”	:
“I think so, I mean, er, I, yes, sir.” . ?
“Well, for a little present, I’m going to give- j-x you a new job. How would you like to be / treasurer?” \	;
“I, sir? Why—”	' -	■	J
“All right, you accept.” *	.	‘ . ..
There was a moment of awkward silence, in . _ which Harding glanced at his room-mate.
The latter was smiling! Harding could not;
“And, Mr. Harding,” Brown continued, ? “Williams here is not a bad sort, is he?” < . “No, indeed hot,” replied Jack.- ' : -
“I believe I would trust him with my entire , '' fortune.” '	.	'	■	.
“Why, yes, sir, certainly,”said Jack, avoiding ./■■
“That was a clever stunt he pulled on you and you thought he was dishonest.”
“You mean that he didn’t—”	x:
“No, I wanted to try out your integrity and Faithfulness, of which I was already pretty sure, before I promoted you, and I had Russell here plan out the whole thing. He worked; the game nicely. I can’t give him a new- position, but I can give him a raise in salary for a wedding present.’.’ .	.	-’	/
“Then, ‘Russ,’ you were '‘kidding’ all the time?” "	'	.	-J -
“Yes,” laughed Williams.	: \ .. ;
“And you knew- I heard your talk and-y followed you?” - ~	•	. '	'




86'	'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“No.”	..	-
“This is great,” shouted Harding, as leaped forward and threw his arms around chum.
Suddenly Williams held up his hand.
“Jack looked so dead in earnest when
is said to be the whip which scourges men into he Vikings; perhaps-it is because the farmer’s his boy is ambitious and courageous rather- than full of - conceit and assurance as is his city
he
had that gun pointed at me in the shack that I really tied those two fellows to the floor,” he said to Mr. Brown. “You’d better, send someone out to untie them and give them a little ‘tip’ to pacify them. Gee, that was a ‘boner.’”
In Memoriam
{Judge Timothy Edward Howard.)
cousin. At any rate it is not the poor man’s . son who is handicapped in life but rather the idle and indulgent youth growing dull-and bulky in the home of plenty; it is the lean and restless
'farmer type that wrestles best with life. Taught his -letters in a country school, and having finished his high school work in Ypsilanti, he attended the University of Michigan for a^year and a half, and then he came to Notre Dame where he was graduated two and one-half years later. He had just begun his career as a teacher at Notre Dame when the Civil War broke out and one day he' disappeared mys-
The shadows of night had fallen on a summer
da}' and the world’was wrapped in silent ’ teriously without a word of warning, and shortly
afterward the University authorities heard he had enlisted as a private soldier in defense of - ' the Union. His career in the Army was short, however, for a Southern soldier at the Battle of Shiloh sped a bullet that wounded him so } seriously that he could not return to the Army during'the war. ■ Perhaps this is why he. took such' a - pathetic and tender interest in the activities of the noble men who make up the G. A. R. Posts of South Bend; perhaps this is why at ever}'' camp fire he had his place, and in . every Memorial Day parade he marched with the-old comrades, enjoying almost in ghostly participation the service of- patriotism which
. the fates had; dented him in his:vigorous youth. . His career , as a public official was brilliant, and of a chastity that won the admiration of all who knew/him. As a member of the City Council, his eloquent pleading, procured for South. Bend the beautiful park that proudly bears his. name. When shall it be graced with a . -
; slumber when Timothy Edward Howard laid his wasted body down in death and folded his white hands for the first time in rest from labor. North and South, and East.and West, the news . spread, and. everywhere it brought grief to ’ human hearts, for everywhere there-were those who knew Judge Howard and sorrowed bitterly . at his death. For days his name was often spoken by thousands of men and women-, yet I believe that not one among all these thousands ’had aught but highest praise to speak of him.
I doubt whether he had even one enemy in all - the world, while his friends were as enthusiastic and devoted as they were numerous. J Yet he - had been a great figure in the City, and. County, - ■" and State life of his day. .He was-a.man jqfjrich .
and varied accomplishment, he had been associated with large action in public life, he was . -utterly lacking in the arts of-the politician, and in the ordinary course there ought to have been /. some at least -to find fault with his work or his .
; ways; but-calumny'" itself dare" not. stand up statue lifted-in his honor? .He was . at. various in its place to assail him. There must have.been times ■ City Attorney,-arid County Attorney,
. rare qualities in a man who could thus placate Clerk of the Circuit Court, and State.Senator,
. the envy and malice of the world.	' an4 always he wore thelaurels of Solon in a yay
. Bom on a farminear Ann Arbor,- Michigan/'that;-dignified?.and/honored them.. He -was ..lhe enjoyed ithe great .advantage of poverty admitted-tothe bar when forty-six years'of age; ; and rusticity^ Det?,philosophers, speculate oh for the Law was hot his first.lpye,; arid he ha'd had -/ / the reasons why a’larger proportion of the rural i; a career as /farmer,. arid as: - teacher, and as . population obtain .distinction than- of the-urban soldier. before taking up his .Blackstone.-- Yet
population.' Perhaps'it is because the-farmer’s this.womiefful^	mari was lifted up to - ...
-“/boy/breathes .fresher-/	plainer food,; a seaE ori the Supreme/Bench -Indiana, arid
. . keeps wholesomer hours; perhaps it is?because/ kis decisions’, were/quoted withffionor in every /
.. hard/work is his Good Angel, even as /adversity ,-.Statejof-: the .Unipri^
,*Eulogy spoken by ^.President. Cavanaugh at’-the;
Rouh<i',Tal}le/,&	1	/"< \ ’	’ c
tentipus jurist - washimselfthe author of the = • <
Indiana Tax L	of. its kind, and he




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
was appointed by the Governor to codify the laws of.this great commonwealth.
As a teacher his attainments were as varied as-the activities which . later crowded - his life, and he was equally at home with Latin and Greek, and English, and History, and Mathematical classes. From every young man who _ sat at his feet neaily half a century ago he won the undying love which 'manifested itself in sweet and tender ways during all the years that .followed; and I am proud to say, that when he returned to the University a few years ago bearing with him the rich treasures of ripe scholarship, and shrewd observation, and legal erudition and kindly spirit, he at once became the idol of his pupils, teaching them high and beautiful lessons in the science of life, nobler than the science , of law.	.
He was a patriot , and not a politician. It is true he gave to his party a loyalty which
temperate in drinking; he was temperate, in -•/' speech; he was temperate in professions of .friendship; he was temperate in patriotism;
he was temperate in religion; he was temperate .
in'money-making—he often told me he had no desire for more money than was sufficient to procure the necessaries of life. .
He was a man of profound charity. Did anyone ever hear him speak ill of another?
He was a man of lowly modesty. Did anyone \ every hear him speak boastfully of himself? ;
He was a- slow worker, but he always had " time-for the Church, for civic ceremonies, and - . ■ for such intellectual reunions as this Round Table.	.	■.
He was a profoundly spiritual man, beautifully - . tolerant of the inner life of other men,—his
_ own radiant mind lit up with the lights of faith, . his own generous heart warmed by the fires of hope, his noble spirit mellowed by the rich .
ennobled and dignified it in the eyes of the liquor of charity. He was a reverent man with ■
. community, and almost the only reward he received was an- occasional invitation’ to deliver an address at the dedication of a little street fountain or to preside over, a public meeting, or be present- at the session of a historical - society. Mt seemed fight that the low-brows should wear the laurels and the ward heelers wear the diamonds while the gentle, modest scholar should, as Sidney Smith said, “cultivate literature on a little oatmeal” and. go his . quiet way of plain living and high thinking. *
- He-was a poet whose most beautiful poem was^ himself, and yet his written verses also scattered golden thought in showers of 'silvery speech.	.*
' He was a jurist in whom the judicial temper w - ’ was a gift, and" in whose soul the. passion for fairness was a divine perennial flame. He was'-
an enlightened sense of the presence, and the power, and the beauty of God; he was a lovable Christian brother with a fine appreciation of the confidence and friendship of men. His word was wisdom, his spirit joy, his friendship almost a sacrament. The elements were so mixed in him that nature might stand up and- say, “ fIere_was_a-marL.L .
Antigone.'
BY SPEER STRAHAN.
Of all the dramatic creations of .antiquity, .. the sweet personality has alone retained universal. and unfailing popularity. Even a hasty reading of the play moves the dullest, of us to admir-. ation. When the .action opens, it is morning. - '
' . a true high priest of that noblest and most The light of peace is still young upon the city, Godlike-virtue of which it has been said “Eor the dew still wet upon the bloody walls. And
justice every place a temple, and every season there in the midst of her. judges stands Antigone, ~ «. summer.” '	.	. . .the simple girl, yet the embodiment of the' .
’ He was a historian whose knowledge of local
chronicles was as minute as his grasp of universal ..history was broad and scholarly. - , .
most sublime ideas of virtue and heroism. She suffers death because she appeals to a higher
- court than that of men. In this, she is.to.
.	; God made him a big man. He-was a large and	-poetry what the . grave majestic figure	of
*	dignified. figure in body; he was - great, and	Socrates is-to prose. Admit that there is	in
■ 'serene, and well poised in.mind; he-was generous, ‘ the play much of what has been termed the
•.	placid, and.heroic, of soul;. he was such a one	“effect of situation,” .as well as the spell	of
-	'	as the noblest of .his. race would like to address	great? poetry, yet the personality of this frail
? as “Your Honor.” .	.	, r ?	., .young woman dominates them all. .	.
= . He was :a true; philosopher in the 'art of Next to ?Antigone, one’s interest centers on / .-• living'; he was temperate in eating;. he. was . Haemon; His tragic death fulfils-his unselfish


88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
character. It is interesting to note in the play the . exclusion of a love interest. Had the unhappy pair been Romeo and Juliet, what • passionate farewells would have been exchanged, .. what burning words, what dying- embraces?
The boy, strong in his love for her, crying to-heaven against the tyranny . of his father, plunges the sword into his breast and dies on the corpse of his beloved. . ?	‘	-
• The culmination of the horror- when, the humbled king, bearing in his arms the dead body of his son, hears the news of the queen’s death, is simply perfect. If anything in ancient Greece ever convinced that wonderful, people of the consequences of crime, it was r such a.storj- as that of Antigone-in the hands of Sophocles. The only climax to that scene where Creon, crushed and humbled to the dust stands listening to the final, chant of the chorus, , while afar through the March evening the . purple sunset deepens over Mount Hymettus, -/ and the thousands before are silent, for. very awe,—the only climax to that scene could be
* when four hundred years later one who called himself not. worth}' of the name of apostle stood in the. classic streets of ’Athens beneath the overshadowing presence of the Acropolis, -
■ and with the Galilean. dust upon his sandals, . appealed to them in the name of the “Unknown God” they worshipped. .	? '	.
-Antigone reminds one most of Cordelia. But one should recall that while the Grecian
7 - maiden is -the' central figure . of / a number of plays, Cordelia is 'but one of Shakespeare’s ?
' ^reat crowd of .personages. Says one critic of note : <“ According to the ./classical ? ideas ,of ; .
; *'virtue and' heroism,’ the character (Antigone) is sublime, and in the delineation ,there - is a
7/ .. severe : simphcity i -mingledwith, ’ its C Grecian ;. grace, a unity, - a: grandeur,. anelegance which
> \: appeal To/	tasteZand Jour/understanding, .
while /they , fill and exalt the imagination.” C/ > Yet; swithal,: dneHeels with -the same author -as :T. /4,he/_ concludes////t$T	our
C / . admiration/Jo /Cordelia	; /. ? / / 7 ,
C/Tyf7	Yet I think -
//C/it//n^TallJ-vst^	considering.' the
/ r/T'inf^i^	/womanfirn t^	-state, ’
$1^	forth this : /
7T? /ixutli,/not-some/exultant: Athenian youth with . iiT^rew^bound
2//^loveliness,;zbutmaiden, yet : a J SM^maiden0ibbufc/whb	7
/Wl/evdf/sihce/clung/CSdphocles^felt/inCsdm^jaihtr//
way that the weak things confound the strong. What scales would have fallen from his eyes could he have seen the little maid of Nazareth, go up to the' hill country of Judea,. with the Word Made Flesh within her breast.
. Varsity Verse.
To a Musician. _ . ■ If I but had the pow’rs of song, The gifts that you possess, Think you I’d stay and idle long, Or seek for “Gold’s” caress? .
Ah no!, I’d.play upon my lyre	'
The unsung songs of men,	.
Their hope and love and wild desire, Their thought that ne’er reached pen.
I’d sing again the secret-strife,	.
That raged within each breast, ' I’d sing'the tale of harried life -And then of welcome rest.	■
If I but had the pow’rs 'of song, The gifts that you. possess	-
Think you I’d stay and'idle long When hearts seek for redress?
Then let the free breeze sweep thy lyre And bring.to birth thy song;
Leap, hearts of men, with high desire, - And die, discordant wrong! ..	■
-	'	- •	- ,	_• 'fames A. Welsh.
. The Children^ .	”	.
'A darkling dawn on the Yang-ho, ‘ . Where the flood spits high and murk And infants’ blood will spilling go, < 2 / Tn an evil temple by that flow, . • “ ’	;
\ Where the yellow-devils lurk: -' A moon-bright sun on city street
’/ J And- the children sicken and faint,'\	‘
And/Death stalks free and laughs to see .
- How gold the god'has come'to be,	'
. ".With his baneful'yellow taint:-•	. ; f
?.; A; beat\of rain .onjtliefwirido	V ~
trees ftho	* .
'yThTrinkiing^drops/with/sudden pops, ?	r -	■'
5 -	:
?/.-/And .blustering?heltef	'
Z’X' '-T'"7 ~
; Oh;|.u	‘scatter-.the spray
/ '/-Of the: misting,, twisting rain, z	z
rTOut'intcT'^	laxlTC-TATA

'And: asifreeWs/the jKund.’ring-main: X".x.
'A;



\7
rs~'



THE, NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
S<)

Enough.	'	.
If I have stopped one soul from aching, Or,soothed one throbbing pain;
If I have stopped one heart from breaking, I have riot lived in vain.
• Joseph C. McGinnis.
By Way or Matrimonial Bureaus. ■ Wrote a plain man to a girl, ,	.
“I ain’t in the social whirl
Of this town.'
There’s no hair to top my pate,	‘
Neither foot can claim a mate. ,
. I’m a clown. '
“ I’m. untutored, I’m corn-fed, Hands is rough and face is red;
Nose doth shine.-
' But I’ve got great gobs of wealth.” Answer: “Love you for your health.
I am thine.”
.	D. C. Grant. -
Al Fresco.
A seven-mile trariip to the river-bank spring, A camp-fire lit ’neath an iron grill, •	'
A porter-house steak slow-broiled with skill,—
Ye gods! What a meal.for a super-king! , '	-	5..4. Vary. :
In Church.
The little bench below the Is there to put your knees
seat, on; ‘
Your friend in front"would wish your feet Were off the one that he’s on.
“No, and I don/t care to either! I’ve enough ? ? to do right here on the farm. tending to the -cows//? and horses, and taking care of my crops.” ? ?
“Well; don’t be too. hasty, Downes; here’s my offer: a. first-class education and-Twenty V, dollars a month to boot, if you prove efficient. :? in three week’s time. How does that sound?”
Downes struck by the extraordinary offer" of < the coach, soon withdrew his former statement;? :;
' and accepted the offer. He was ,very happy"1;.., at the prospects of going to college and of quitting, the life on the farm. After a- short -conversation, he retreated to a small cottage - , across the fields, and after packing hisj carpet / bag, was soon on his way to Bentley. College. As he drove with the coach through the college ’ entrance, a-crowd-of students laughed in.scorn.? . at the “hayseed” sitting beside the spruce coach. Jehu was given a room and told to report daily for practice at three o’clock. 1	;
“ Come on there, you lopsided, freak of nature',1 get that. ball * and carry. it. Don’t stand there holding it like a piece of limburger cheese. Now go, hit’em hard; plunge, fall on the ball.” These were some of the imperatives -hurled at / Jehu, as he played like a demon ? in > quest of ~ , victory. The students were greatly surprised?,?/ at the -progress being made by the “human/ .


“The Boob.”
’ Don MacGregor. steam-roller” as' they now called him,, instead
—:. of the “boob.” Murn’ kept him working hard/

BY T. C. D
and. oh the day of ‘ the big game he was-quite confident of a victory, with Downes as full1 back. * • .	" -	■	. ■ ..	-. , ’/’.W"
. The day of the game had come at last, and
' “Hello there general!” cried Bill Murry, the at three o’clock Bentley marched: on the: field -football coach- for Bentley College, as he sat in amid the shouts of the spectators ;and the: musfc? . his machine, watching a young farmer of about of the Varsity Band. The whistle blew and .the two hundred pounds weight diligently hoeing . anxious players were; off. No score; was made, potatoes..	until the third quarter when Hedley•:made a
. , “How are the crops this year?” -	.touchdown. This was-^quickly followed by a.
“ O the darn; potatoes are eaten up with these touchdown-by Bentley. Thc’-score was/ndw/ " pesky bugs, ’ ’ returned Jehu Downes as he rested seven to seven, with six more minutes to playJ/kS on the handle of? his hoe.
“ Get. that. ball, Downes; , smash'the? line
- A conversation then took place, between the . kill ’em!”cried theTrantic :cpachTq.Jehu
. ? In thenext play the ball was given to Downes and he tore through’ the f opposing: line like ;a runaway locomotive, ; makingy aS/touchd^
: after1 a terrific plunge of? twelve ?; yards. J The .whistle blewjand-Downes: was cam
- coach and: the. burly farmer? . Bill; had been - diligently hunting .during- the past-week -for
; just such a man as Jehu, but had met with little' encouragement until this , happy meeting:
\ The fact was :Bentley College/was^suffering from	........
. • the loss’: of their powerful /fullback' Ed. - Jenks/; field ^dn/ the : shoulders • of ytwby enthusiastic.
. and; the1 game with/Hedley College ?was only- students; inThejmidsfiof three .weeks/away/1	?■*•-•—< - ::	Jehu smiled./quietly? ,H
’/ “Bo?you?never playedffpotbal^	more/hamaU,;hehaff?e^e^
//??Bili:/r; r// /•■’	with1 a
4;
3T.
Si'S

.t






90
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered, as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
L.
OCTOBER 28, 1916
No. 6.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, T6
Speer W. Strahan, ’17
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’18
Harry E. Scott, ’ 18
John A. Lemmer, ’18
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
—The besetting sin of God’s chosen people was idolatry. Against this the prophets thundered denunciation; because of-this the /wrath of God was kindled like fire before Retreat.- stubble to destr o}’ the evil doers.
For men in those days grew careless of their duty, to God, made to themselves gods of stone' and wood and worshipped with rites and ceremonies that pandered to their sensuality or their ambitious pride. Men have not greatly changed since then. Stone or wood
cannot in an enlightened age win their adoration; ' living in such a city as Brooklyn,
but idolatry is not dead. Men build in their . hearts shrines to idols, not of wood and stone, but idols withal. - Here is vain ambition, king-crowned, claiming the sacrifice of time and energy and. the lawful service of true worship; There is' sensuality, soft,, attractive, enticing, fattening upon the finer instincts of our nature thrown as incense on the glowing-brazier; here is mere learning drawing votaries
to its shrine to the neglect of the worship of and thetyourig Jesuit,'Suarez, yet unknown to
-	the. God of. knowledge. There is need yet of the prdphet-call, the warning, the direction.
-	J A retreat, is such a call. The student living in a world'crowded-with false ideals, needs to
pause, to. listen to the warning, to break to the. recognition of. his poetic, genius.- A great 3 powder what is merely a fetish, to come out . love of Spanish literature, and a knowledge^ ~'
/; from the darkness, of the. groves and worship Spain,, gained Through.living there for a certain yin the. temple of God. In a retreat he is brought penpd, ought to make the lecture one of - the ''
face Jo face with the great: realities of life— best ol The year. Mr.- Walsh comes to us
■ G°d’ deafh, judgment and hell, and to-night, one of the foremost American poets ' "Wof These .truths; he -readjusts his : and a. Cathblib, ;to Tpeak- on. the chief literary - f
-i Ptyspectives, grasps new	ideals.-and	glory of almost the oldest Catholic country. ~ '
goes on his way rejoicing. This opportunity— though it be brief—for pausing and giving one’s best thought to these big facts that touch so nearly one’s whole life,- ought to be thoroughly appreciated by men whose vision reaches beyond the horizon of this material world..
On the part of the student, there is need in a retreat, of good-will, a spirit of self-sacrifice and a desire to Jay hold of all the good that may be had from these religious exercises. This goodwill has been abundantly manifested in the past and has borne fruit in an increased number of serious, devoted Catholic young men. The . preacher can guide, counsel, suggest; but he cannot make, the retreat. This is the work of the student himself, and the harvest of grace and spiritual profit which he will gather from this annual exercise will depend largely upon his sowing—goo^-will, earnest seriousness and regular attendance at all the exercises.
—Anyone, who is a friend of Mr. T. A. Daly and Mr. Joyce Kilmer is sure of a warm welcome ■ at Notre Dame. But Mr: Thomas Walsh, who -.
.lectures this week on “Cer-Thomas Walsh. . vantes,” besides being^a friend to these two brilliant young. men -and a working partner with them, is himself a poet, of note and the foremost American.
authority on “Cervantes.” His is a claim for notice in American letters.
Walsh .has wrought the. glories of Spain into exquisite poetry, woven
distinct Despite Thomas ancient delicate
Elizabethan love songs and tender Irish .lyrics, that are authentic song. He has discovered and transmuted into our English language the glories and beauties of .Catholic Spain, the Spain of the days That saw the treasures of the Indes unloaded on the wharfs of Cadiz, the days that beheld Goya rule Madrid with brush and palette,
fame, refute the lords of Thomistic opinion.
Two yolunes^ of verse, ‘‘Prison Ships” and “The Pilgrim Kings,” both issued by leading American publishing houses, bear witness to .


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9i
The Laetare Medal.-
On Sunday evening, October 22, the Laetare Medal was -conferred upon Doctor James J. Walsh in Washington "Hall. • The ceremony, simple in itself, had an impressive grandeur about it-that will long be felt by those who were t present. The program had .two parts. The first a musicale, given by Miss Myrna Sharlow, soprano, and Mr. Dolesji, violinist, both assisted by Mr. Charles Lumey, accompanist. The-music was of a superior grade and rendered with fine artistry. “Come Back to Erin” - was sung with true feeling, and Gonoud’s “Ave Maria” with violin obbligato drew hearty applause from an appreciative audience. Mr. Dolesji’s selections were well played ,and were heartily appreciated. Miss Sharlow’s encores were especially-delightful, particularly “Jamie, Jamie Dear.” Both artists were ably accompanied by Mr. Lurney at the piano.
’ The second part of the evening’s program was opened by a paper on the history of the Laetare Medal by Mr. Emmet Lenihan. . The text of this paper is published in the first part of the Scholastic. Doctor Schumacher then read a number of telegrams of greeting received by Doctor Walsh, and President Cavanaugh, . some of which follow:	-
■	Baltimore, Md., Oct. 21, 1916.
Dr. J. J. Walsh:	•	’ w •
I beg to offer you my most sincere congratulations on the well-deserved honor you have received by the conferring of the.'Laetare Medal. .	.	■
' James Cardinal Gibbons.
'	.	• New York, Oct. 20, 1916.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:	_
Permit me, at exercises during which” the Laetare ■ Medal will be formally conferred on Dr. J. J. Walsh, to repeat my congratulations to the distinguished medalist. The University, always careful in its choice, could scarcely have selected a more worthy subject for this splendid honor. ~	.
John Cardinal Farley.
' Boston, Mass., Oct. 19, 1916.
. ■ Dr. James J. Walsh :	.
- Hearty congratulations on well deserved honors. May the merit and the honors still go on increasing.
:	/	-	' William Cardinal O’Connell. .
.	. '	Bishop’s House, Dubuque, Iowa.
- The University will honor itself • by honoring so , distinguished a Catholic scholar.
h regret that it will be impossible for me to be present.	.	'
. \	” John J. Keane, Archbishop of Dubuque.
.	'	: . -Saint'Paul, Minn., Oct. 20, 1916.
Rev. John Cavanaugh: .	.	.
I congratulate Dr: J. J. Walsh and Notre Dame,
University. Doctor Walsh is honored by a great ~ University. Notre Dame proves its enlightened, judgment by choosing as recipient of this medal the . -first of our present-day defenders of Catholic faith,
John Ireland, Archbishop of St, Paul. -Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Oct. 19, 1916.
Mydear'Dr. Cavanaugh:	-
' With thanks for your kind invitation beg to say . that it is quite impossible for me to attend the conferring of the Laetare Medal on Dr. Walsh. But I . wish to congratulate you on the selection that you made. Of all the Catholic laymen of our country, - ' Dr. Walsh is, in my opinion, the most^ worthy one to receive such an honor. "	'	.
May I ask you to kindly express to him my most cordial congratulations?	. _ .
Very sincerely yours, . '
S. G. Messmer, Archbishop of Milwaukee.
St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 19, 1916.
My dear Father Cavanaugh:	-
'Present the Laetare Medal to Dr. Walsh and try if , you can to get into the record my heartiest greetings. . Dr., Walsh is a prodigy—in learning—in activity. He ought to have that life formula of his,—how, namely, he thinks, talks and acts,—patented,—and then he ought to invite the rest of us to at once violate the patent. Yours	'	-
. John J‘. Glennon, Archbishop of St. Louis,
- Fort Wayne, Ind., Oct. 18, 1916.
The Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.:
Be sure to present to Doctor James J. Walsh, of New York, my most cordial congratulations, when that -coveted honor, the Laetare Medal for the year. 1916, is conferred on him next Sunday evening at your University. W	’	. .-
At the same time kindly explain to him that I can _ hardly be present on the occasion much to my own regret. With sincere regards, I remain .
Devotedly yours in Domino,	.	.
H. J. Alerding, Bishop of Fort Wayne. .
‘ —	Rockford, Ill., Oct. 18, 1916.	'
My Dear Dr.-Cavanaugh :
I am sorry that I cannot attend on Sunday evening - : next, but I am out in the corn-fields at present and can “ not change the dates. I am happy to know’you have honored Dr. Walsh. None more worthy. Please _ remember me to him and'tell him I hope the electric lights will not go out.	'
P. J. Muldoon, Bishop of Rockford. ’
Helena, Montana.'
Dear Doctor Walsh:	... -	' . "
On my return home this morning I learn of the - . distinguished honor Notre Dame has conferred’1 upon L ;7 you in awarding you the Laetare^ Medal. Accept my.-most hearty congratulations and. the assurance of my - J conviction that the honor could not have been more worthily bestowed. Very sincerely yours,	'	.7. ”
'	John; P. Carroll, Bishop of Helena; ■
Covington, Ky., Oct. 19, 1916;..	.7
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—	. . ..	. .y
Your dear invitation just came.. Nothing; would 7 --give me greater pleasure than, to witness , the honor; . bestowed so meritoriously upon Dr. Walsh, whom I -’ <
: -	.	' ■ ■	7 . ■' 1y
t,
THE NOTRE DAME 'SCHOLASTIC
and disinterested spirit that has marked all the work of your life; and because in high aspiration and noble achievement you have been a model to the young men of America, the University of Notre Dame, also . dedicated to their service, confers on you the Laetare Medal for the year of Our Lord Nineteen Hundred and Sixteen, and prays for you length of days and strength of purpose to continue your labors for God and humanity. '
The President then pinned the Medal on Dr. Walsh who responded briefly and with the characteristic modesty and humility of greatness. Those who were used to hearing Doctor Walsh discourse for hours with wonderful fluency were deeply touched by the few brief words and read in his whole manner the feeling his words labored to express.
After the meeting in Washington Hall an informal reception was held in the University parlor.	.
------------------- •
Secretary McAdoo. .
Extremely cordial was thejreception accorded to Secretary of State McAdoo and the members of his.party, who held forth in Washington Hall Saturday morning, the 21st. Senator Taggart of Indiana, the first speaker, won the students completely by inviting them to call on him any time they happened to visit the Capital. Doctor Axston, brother-in-law to the President, formerly a professor at Princeton, and now affiliated with Rice Institute in Texas, was fully at ■ home before a_ college audience. His address - was, clever and amusing and brief. In con. elusion, Secretary McAdoo ,explained carefully and simply the workings of the Federal Reserve Act and its beneficial effects upoWthe country.
. x -----------------------------
The Book of Varsity Verse. .
'• “The Book of.Varsity• Verse” to be issued shortly, from the University Press, commands the interest not only of students now in residence at Notre Dame, . but also all who have ever -attended the University. The,suggestion has. \ often been made that the best- of the poetry from the old. volumes of . the Scholastic be, collected and put in permanent book form. , It has been thought fitting that an anthology of this kind be, issued this , year as part comemoration of the golden jubilee of the Scholastic and the diamond jubilee of the University. Among the bards whose work is being reprinted are Arthur J. Stace, Daniel Vincent Casey,. ‘Charles Warren Stoddard, Austin O’Malley,
regard the facile princeps el primus among the best equipped Catholic laymen of our country.	"
" The University of Notre Dame honors itself in honoring him. Vivant, Florcant ct Crescant Honorans ’ et Honoratiis.—	.
I sincerely regret that I cannot be with you and him.
Yours affectionately,
Ferdina-nd Brossart, Bishop of Covington.
Washington, D. C., Oct. 22, 1916.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:	~
It would be a joy if it were within my power to be .with you. My sincerest felicitations to Dr. Walsh, and my earnest congratulations to you, and wishes for ' the continued development of the great and beneficent - work of the University.
Edward D. White, Chief Justice of the U. S.,
Lretare Medalist, 1914.
After the reading of these greetings, - which were warmly applauded, by those present, President Cavanaugh read the following formal address of presentation:	'
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
’	,	to	'
• JAMES JOSEPH WALSH
GREETING	’
Sir: -	-	•	-
It is many years since our forefathers in the University established the custom of conferring the Laetare Medal on some member of the Catholic laity distinguished fbr eminent service to humanity in some field of public effort. The.purpose of the University is not only to honor those who have labored for the common good but also to set. before the young men of America models of lay zeal and activity so that they . may be inspired to work .in the same spirit. Historians, poets, philosophers, scientists, authors, philanthropists, orators, journalists, jurists, and warriors have been thus singled out for recognition and 'approval, and the'illustrious recipients of the Laetare Medal have _ added distinction to it.
For many years your untiring efforts in behalf of religion, science, and letters have marked you, sir, as ~ one worthy to be added to the noble company of those" who have received this mark of approval. Your great talents have been ungrudgingly given to the alleviation of the sufferings of men through the science of medicine. You have been that good physician whom we are ^bidden to honor for the need we have of him. You , have labored with high motive and distinguished success in the .field of Catholic education. On many . occasions you have been the spokesman and defender of religious faith when it.was misunderstood dr attacked and. your luminous exposition of the spirit and achieve-v ’ ment of the old Catholic centuries and the old .Catholic .personages have made men within and without the " Church your debtors^ With a single-mindedness which cannot be too much admired you have undergone, great- labors for small rewards, ahd the whole 'spirit of. your notable career has been one of generous service .as well, as high achievement/ Your private.life has /A been an example to Catholicjybuth.	.
Because of these distinguished services to religion and scholarship, and humanity; because of the noble
I' / A
• J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Francis Earle Hering, Jerome Murphy, Eliot Ryder, and Patrick McDonough. The collection is being edited by Speer Strahan and will have an introduction by Charles E. O’Donnell
'C. S. c:
! ------------------—------------
Obituary.
Mr. John Kramer.
John Kramer, father of Edward Kramer of Brownson .Hall, died suddenly at his home in Wayland, N. Y., on Wednesday evening, Oct., ‘ 25. Edward is a freshman in the University and a member of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society. He has the sincere sympathy of his many friends.
Moving Pictures.
Because it was deemed that “The Chimes” would fail to find favor, a miscellaneous program was shown last Saturday night. Of .the various one-reelers a “Ham and Bud” comedy was laughable and the rest were passable. “Colonel .Carter of Cartersville,” founded on the novel by the late F. Hopkinson Smith, is fairly interesting, but the production as a whole is unworthy of its star, Burr Macintosh.
Personals.
—James Robbins (EE- B., ’14) is practicing law in El Paso, Texas, with offices in the Mills Building.
y. —Francis Canning (LL- B., T4), formerly of Perris, California, has located in El Paso, selling real estate.
—-Pion. James E. Watson (LL. D., ’15), candidate for U. S. Senator, speaks at South Bend .this evening.
—Harry Morrison, who was a student in Carroll'Hall a few years ago, is doing border duty witlCthe 32d Michigan Infantry.
—Our old friend Dr. T. J. Swantz (B. S., Biol., ’04) of South Bend, is Democratic candidate this year for * Coroner • of St. Joseph County.
, —Mr. Samuel Gompers, president of the Al'nerican Federation of Labor, addressed the student body at three o’clock on Thursday afternoon.
—Rev. Julius Henze, O. : F. M., pastor , of St.’Josephus Church, Escanaba, Mich., visited
93
the Escanaba students at the ^University. There are now nine from Escanaba enrolled at Notre Dame.
—Juan Creel, who was a’ student in the University for several years, is now at the head of the Pioneer Motor Company, handling Briscoe automobiles.
:—Friends of Robert E- Daly (M. ~E., ’16) will be sorry to learn of an accident with which he met recently while engaged in work at Youngstown, Ohio. “Bob” is confined to the City Hospital, Youngstown.
Local News.
—The library has been put under roof by the contractors.
—A large number of students enjoyed the performance "of “Experience” at the Oliver last evening.
—The new rooms in the Sorin Subway have been painted and will soon be ready for use. They are situated on the northeastern end of the building.	' -
—Dances to which the public is’ invited indiscriminately are to be' tabooed to Notre Dame students, according to a ruling published last Tuesday.
. -—The football team will be entertained on the evening of the Nebraska-N.otre Dame game at a banquet given by the Catholic Student" Club of Nebraska University.
—It is probable that an excursion will be run to Lansing on Nov. 18 to enable Notre Dame fans to see the. game with the Michigan Aggies. The Grand Trunk railroad, which goes directly to Lansing, has been asked for a round trip rate.	.	...
—The Glee Club is booked for St. Joseph, Michigan, on the evening of Wednesday, Nov. 15. ' Father M. G. Esper, who staged the Club’s concert there last year, was so enthusiastic that he was the first to write for a date this season.	-	...
—JThe fifteen Texans at the University reorganized on Monday by choosing .Harry R. Burt of Moran, Texas, as their president fpr: the coming year. Others to be honored by the Lone Star fraternity are Bryan Odem, who hails from Sinton and' is to be vice-president; Odin E. Clay- of Houston, :secretary. and .treasurer; Walter Schumucker,- Dallas, , sergeant-at-arms;. “Tex” Allison, Georgetown, chaplain..

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The first social event of the school calendar will be the informal dance given by the DayStudents of. the Universitf* at Place Hall on Wednesday evening, November eighth. The annual dance of the “Dodgers” last fall was the best attended of the year, and the Day Students hope to duplicate their performance next month. Tickets are now printed and in the hands of the committee.
—The second session -of the Moot Court case of Stephen McGonigle, charged with illegal voting last March 9, was held in Sorin Law Room Monday evening. It is hoped to get the case to the jury by next Monday. Vernon Helmen arid Sam Feiwell, both day students, are prosecuting. Bmmett Lenihan and Arthur Hayes of Walsh Hall, are counsel for McGonigle. Among the witnesses already examined are Charles Reeve, Joe Flynn, Hugh O’Neil, John Doyle, and Thomas McManus. The case has attracted campus-wide attention.
'—This was decidedly Walsh week-at Notre Dame. Sunday night in Washingtoh Hall the Laetare Medal was presented to Dr. James J. Walsh, of New York. Tuesday, ex-Governor Walsh of Massachusetts, called at the University. Friday Senator Walsh of Montana was slated to appear in our-midst. To-night we are to have a lecture by Thomas Walsh, the poet. Also, . we might. add, that in'the absence of Father Cavanaugh, Father Walsh
has been acting president, and that Walsh - were nosed out by Michigan, tp the tune of Hall played Brownson to a standstill last 9 to o. It is evident that these three teams are
Sunday, and the Walsh smoker . was . held Wednesday night. '
—Walsh Hall opened its .social program for. the scholastic . year last Wednesday^ night with ... a very pleasing program, and a fine lunch.'. The smoker was one;of .the many good times con-* J templated by the committee in charge. The
.program on the whole had a touch of profession-
. .aiism'and it would be a difficult matter-to pick :-The team has been working on their three- _ out a “best.”. Charles McCauley assisted by. times-a-day. schedule, all week, which consists m * Harry. Scott dispensed Southern? .syncopation- of-blackboard..practice attwelve thirty, a work-\ .arid was one of the many “hits”/ on the'bill, out on. Cartier Field: each afternoon, and signal.
Mr’A Soraco ..and Mr. Ong dressed in their drill in the gym'each- evening after supper. . native ? garbs rendered - three- Chinese- songs As a result-of This hard work; the squad is show- \ and are io be .congratulated .on their number. - ing af world of improvement. Thanks to the < f “School iDays;” ’.written .by X? Cook, was the- :'good.iworkfbf?trainef/Gilmste the injured . best- vaudeville, act we.have ever seen at Notre on thej- squad have beeri . coming, along nicely . i Dame, /After the am^ a short talk was arid riot a. substitute will:start the game, to-day M-7gWeriXy^	r agairistJJWaba^	: infected arm; ?
Ji.yon?tiifi(spiritiShownHlHS?yhafM^^	hand.
Kables restaurant and “Jimmie and GoatsT for their aid in-making the Smoker the success-it was. .	■	’
—St. Joseph Hall students have reorganized their literary aud debating society and are planning.to hold regular meetings during the winter. Nearly the entire hall enrollment has joined the society. The men who will direct the affairs of the organization - are Stephen McGonigle, of Belvidere, Ill., who will brandish • the gavel at meetings and hold down the chair during debates; Raymond W." Murray of Bridgeport, Conn., who will preside-when the revered executive is pressed for time through duties in the law library; John H. Doyle, .of Sparta, Wis., who will record the doings of the .society and take down the speeches of the president; Frank J. Carey, of Rochester, N. Y., upon whom will fall the task of collecting and. hoarding the club revenues, o
Football.
That the Varsity is going to meet some tough opposition before the season is over was evidenced from last Saturday’s scores. The Army-smothered. Trinity by tfie score of 58 to o, the great' Oliphant making twenty-eight - of the points himself; Nebraska beat the-Oregon Aggies by. two .touchdowns; 'while the Michigan Aggies got all the bad breaks, in the game and
-exceptionally strong this.year.. Assistant Coach Rockne, who watched, the Army-Trinity game, says the West Pointers have one of the best teams he had ever seen, and “Rock” played on the fampus-Notre Dame team of 1913.. If the . team gets down to business, we should take not only-the Army game but; all the rest bn the schedule. '	.	-
-The team has been working on their three-
v

&
fiusfifesM^	• Clark,*; manager; off . has Imendedyarid?'Whipple’s ? jarikle'' Jis? ’strong-"

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9.
enough so that he can, at least, start the game at his Old position at right end.
The Freshmen have been giving the Varsity • • stubborn resistance in each evening’s scrimmage, and the regulars have been called upon to .• extend themselves in order to hold their own. .
Using Wabash plays," the Yearlings proved a puzzle to the Varsity at first, but when the old fighting spirit was aroused, the story was somewhat different. This is just what the team needed, stubborn resistance, and somebody that would make them fight; and this Js just -
' wbat the Freshmen have given them.
The work of. one riian has stood out promi-nen tly in _ the scrimmages of the past week. Meagher, sophomore substitute end,, has been showing such rapid development that he is expected to prove a real find before the season , . is over. ’	'
Although the Varsity should take Wabash, down the line this afternoon, the contest will be a real battle, for the teams are old enemies on the gridiron; and, too, the Little Giants are a much better'teaih than the score of the
-' Wabash-Purdue game would -indicate. The Boilermakers defeated Wabash, 26 to 7, but . two of their touchdowns came as freaks of luck
and the Little Giants have improved greatly since that game. Three touchdowns to the. good will be aplenty!	./
For Walsh the stars were Noonan^ Harry McNickols; Haberer and McFeeley, while Zoia, Riley and Hackett for Brownson made the fur fly. The score was 0-0.	. .
. Safety Valve. \
. *. -
No, there are no private rooms vacant now but if you’re an unconditioned sophomore or nut or something; like that I’ll give you a bill for tent space-in the late Chemistry Hall.	'	. .	.	■
The Corby Chicks defeated Walsh Chicks on Thursday by the score of 14 to o. The game-was well played - by both teams. Mulligan's long runs were the feature of the game. .
.Brownsonite:—“I just came over from Walsh Asylum where I visited some of the inmates and I want to tell you, pal, that ! feel sorry for some of those -fellows; Why they talk as sensible most of the time as you and I do and some of them honestly believe they are attending school and studying lessons. One fellow told-me that he stayed up till eleven o’clock burning • a candle to study his geometry and the poor fellow” was as earnest and sincere about it as though he had lucid intervals and could think. The only time they . really become violent is when' you mention Hully Sr- . Mike’s or say something about night permissions. . They think they should have 30 night permissions a week ' and they swear by their double-decker beds that they only get- nine. They are usually put in between the 'iron fire doors in the. corridor when, in this condition and they get the idea, that they are pins in the bowling alley and that Father. Farley is bowling 300. But I’m of the opinion that some of them could be cured if they’d clean their teeth with Sapolio.”	'	'
Interhall Football.
The iiiterhall season football schedule opened . on last Sunday like the battle of the Marne. Walsh Hall sturdies lined up, tiger-eyed quick, determined; Brownson opposed with a little
Corby Haller:—“At the school my sister attends, and it’s not a thousand miles from here, the younger
.	.	girls make dates to go walking with the older girls .
more weight, but less-skill.- After the rush of . and so keenly do they enjoy and appreciate this the kick-off was over Joe Lodesky was found privilege that-they send these older girls flowers
oh the field with a badly injured leg. After the second play, time was called while McKenriy of. Walsh: was led' from the : field trying to keep his head on his shoulders;;.:play number three came,to an end arid Clarence-Bader stepped it off to the side lines hoping that his teeth were-still firm • in the jaw he was sure mtist be dislocated; after the fourth play—
when they happen to go to town. I think it would be an exceedingly nice thing if we would do the same, thing. I shall start it to-night if possible.”	.	\
-	(One hour later).'’ -	_	. '
CorbyiteMay I have a date to go walking with you to-night, Mr. Cofall?”
‘ Cofall:—“To go walking1. If I walk four feet to-■> night I hope to be shot. Do you ttunk.I have nothing .
- else to do after playing football for two hours but to
,	.	spend the evening walking? If you want exercise go.
but we rilrist stop : somewhere. .	'	to work. If you want to see me you’ll find me in a
’k Fvery inch of ground was stubbornly foilght ' Morris'chair and for the love of Mike bring your own ' .
^or. Walsh Hall seemed to have .the 'advantage tobacco because I haven’t any to sparo-”
through most of the game,.though a;long for- <	- (A aeeklaier.) .-.	-	.
,	.	if 1	Messenger:— I have.-some flowers here for..Air. .
ward .pass by Brpwnson ; near the. close CofaU „ . .. .	:	..	. .	’
... of the' battle sent a tremble- through Coach	Cofall:—“Flowers! There’s no one dead 'here...
.. jBrichfn a n ’ s : warri ors>, • '	.	.	■ . • j -• Whit on earth are you thinking of? This is riot a wake.”;
96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'
Messenger:—"No, Mr. Cofall these flowers, as I understand it, are for your own personal enjoyment.”
Cofall:—"Enjoyment!	You can’t eat flowers.
Take them out and give them to the janitor and have
$100.00
Frank E. Swift; ’16
C. P. Mottz; ’16
Samuel Ward Perrott; ’16
Edward C. Ryan; ’16
them put in iny mattress-—there’s a hole in the middle - James Francis Odem; ’16
of it.” -
Messenger:—7‘But you wouldn't put rosy blooms like these in a mattress would, you?”	. ‘
Cofall:—“No. I'might catch hayfever from them.
Take them out and bury them.' They carry germs all kinds. It might be well to pour coal oil on them be sure they are harmless—”
of to
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to October 28,1916
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall rvere
re-
ceived by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:	'	-
Rev. Bernard P. Muti ay, The amounts which follow the Scholastic.
$2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, ’S6 '	$1000.00
P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68
. Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75
M. F. Healy, ’82 John C. Shea, ’98 Clement C. Mitchell. ’02 Byron V. Kanaley. ’04	.
Daniel P. Murphy, ’95 John P. Lauth, ’6S_Z ...	"	$500.00
Rev. John Dinnen, ’65 Warren A. Cartier, ’87 Stephen B. Fleming, '90 Thomas Hoban, ’99 Angus D. McDonald, 'co William A. Mclnerny, 'ot Joseph M. Byrne, ’14 Cassius McDonald, ’04 William P^Breen, ’77 Student from Far West Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09 C. C. Craig, '85 Frank E. Hering, ’98 Peter P. McElligott, ’02	- .
James J. Conway,’85 George Cooke, ’90.
$250.00
’ - Robert Sweeney, ’03 ’ John H. Feridrich, ’S4 ’, ; -< John Eggeman, ’00
' A. A. McDonell; ’00	-
Eugene A. Delaney,.’99	<
R. A. O’Hara, ’89-.
.	• • -. -	$200.00
' - James F. Kennedy, ’94	■ ’
- ' Louis C; Mv Reed, ’98 .
Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00-Joseph J. Sullivan; ’02	.
. G. A. Farabaugh,' ’04 ’	-
Robert Anderson, ’83 .-
- Joseph Lantry, ’07' - -- .	.
- -Rev. F.‘J. Van Antwerp, ’14 . John. Dowd, '99	'
" Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, .’63
-Christopher, C.’ Fitzgerald, ’94 . Fl A. Kaul, ’97.	.
. William Hoynes, ’77 -,-V ' - Edwin J. Lynch.’16/. y-, -
''	T.- 'D; Mott7 ’95'' '	;
.' .F;;Hefary:Wurzer,’98 Z J -- IPaul-RSMartiri. f 13 - r- : ■ y . '-’-Timothy .V.-'-Ansberry,:’93'(
-Jojin-M.- Quinlan,7045-:• , .
' 'Daniel-Madden, ’66'' ?	?
• Fre'd j/Kasper;’04'; -'	'..^7-
/ $100.00
were- published in an earlier issue of
$200.00
J. S. Corby,’’9S
Thomas Steiner, ’99
John F.- Cushing, ’06 $150.00
W. A. Draper, ’06 $120.00
Maximilian St. George '08 $100.00
Mark M. Foote, ’73 Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92 E. J. Maurus, ’93 Thomas J. Swantz, ’04 H. G. Hogan, ’04.
Harold P. Fisher, ’06 John B. Kanaley, ’09 James F. Hines, ’09 John B. ^IcMahon, ’09	’
. Rev. John M. Byrne, '00
J. H. Gormley, ’03
Thomas O’Neill, '13 -Robert E. Proctor, ’04
John F. O’Connell, ’13	'
Frank C. Walker, ’09	- —
Rev. Gilbert Jennings, ’oS George O’Brien, ’9'0
Vitus Jones, ’02
. W. A. Duffys ’oS
Rev. J. H.-.Guendling, ’14 Fred C. McQueen, ’do Charles J. Stubbs, '88 Rupert Donavan, ’oS Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, '14 Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’95 Frank L. McOsker, ’72 Charles-E. Ruffing, '85	.
Janies F. Foley, ’13
Rt. Rev. T. iC. O'Reilly, ’09 Thomas J. Welch, '05
. William E. Cotter, ’13	.
John C. Tully, ’11	‘	’
John F. O’Connor, ’72 T. P. O’Sullivan, ’02 - -
7 G. M. Kerndt, ’82	•
:- Dr. Frank J. Powers, '94
Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07 . Daniel C. Dillon*. ' '	.
-. -Thomas' C. Butler/ .’08 - ’ ‘ Edward M-. Kennedy, *08 .. .
; .-John J. Kennedy, ’09 - -
' Peter'M.' Ragan,,’92	-
James D. Barry, ’97	-
Fred L. Steers,rr’ii ■ ; -	' -
-. .Walter Cleirients,.’ 1'4--. i -' _ - ' /_■Edward J. Carlton,- .’i6.-	*
/ Leonard M. Carroll; ’16-'.’ j/Luke _L~»Krilly,: ’16':	,J-'
Emmett P. Mulholland, ’16 Thoma* A. Hayes, ’16 " Frank J. Hiss, '16 .
Joseph J. McCaffery, '16 Walter P. McCourt, ’16 M. J. McEniry, ’Si Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15 James F. O’Brien, ’13 Michael L. Fansler, ’04 A. C. Fortin,' ’01 Daniel J. O'Connor, ’05 M. H. Miller, ’10 William D. Jamieson, ’05 Grover F. Miller, ’16	.
Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16 Edwin H. Sommerer, ’16 Joseph O’Sullivan Jacob E. Eckel, ’16 Vincent Mooney, ’16 John T. Shea, ’06 Edward M. Schaack. ’93 Anton C. Stephan, ’04 Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07 Harry F. McDonagh, ’10 Charles W. Lahey, ’13 Adam J. Kasper, ’95	/
George W. Kasper, ’95 Robert A. Kasper, ’07 Charles Girsch, ’94	.
Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07 John B. Fruechtl, ’04 Hugh J. Daly, ’12 Edward K. Delana, ’13 Harry Curtis, ’oS	-
Charles Cullinan, ’07 Daniel Cullinan, ’07	-
Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99 Edgar Crilly, ’90' -George S. Crilly, '88 James V. Cunningham, ’07 M. H. Miller, 'io .
’ Frank X. Cull, 'oS- -Jesse E. Vera, ’10 Walter Duncan, ’12	-	'
- - * James W. O’Hara, ’13	'
Joseph Collins, hr Dr. H. G'. McCarty,-'i2	'
James Dubbs. ’06	.
Raymond E. Skelly, ’11 - ■ William R. Ryan, ’11	.
William A. McKearney, ’oS ' ’ '	.	?75-Oo	•	•
John W. Costello, ’12 -' $50.00
A. J. Major, '86	-	.
Charles Vaughan, ’14 Stephen H. Herr,” 10 ’.	‘
J.-N.'Antoine, '70	.	.
Rev. Thomas Cleary/ ’09	_
Fred Stewart;’12	'
Jay Lee, .’12	. .c. >/-	"
’ Albert F. Gushurst; ’09 - . ’
-i
. Edward P. Cleary, ’09' J ; . Rev. Jolin J..Burke, '83 - .. Rev. M. L. Moriarty,.’id' .Rev: J. E. Scullin, ’09 x ‘
‘-.Rev.-John Pl Quinri, '83 ; ■ Simon E.-Twiriirig,.-'i3
. J. V. Birder,13'. " ” z' Cecil E.‘ Birder, r "
- M.-.Emmett Walter,-’15 - -.7. Ralph Eberhart, ”02 ’1 < X:-Rev. John «M.;Gererida,’’o9
- Timothy PLGaiyin,-*16 /:
/ Ray-.M. Humphreys, ’16'7 •
*	Sjo.dd -
Hugh E. Carroll, ’16 Jesse C. Harper Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14 Louis P. Hari, ’16 Joseph D. Kovacks, ’16 Patrick Maloney, ’16 J. F. Delph, ’16 Hugh O’Donnell, *16 Janies Sanford. ’14 Ira W. Hurley, ’14 Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15 Francis H. Hayes, ’14 E. P. Cleary, ’09 Raymond J. Kelly, ’16 Ernest P. Lajoie, '15 Rev. P. J. Crawley. ’95 Arthur Pino, ’06 William Milroy, ’13 Dr. Robert Frost, ’02 Eustace Berry, ’03 A Friend from the South ' Daniel Shouvlin, ’14
$40.00	'
Gerard N. Krost, ’04'	-
$25.00	~
Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’83 James M. Riddle, ’13 Henry Hess, ’82 Dr. E. M.-McKee, ’06 Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13 Rev. John H. Mullin,'’1 i' I. N. Mitchell Sr., '92 Frederick Williams, ’13
. Rev. Joseph Toth, ’n Joseph M. Walsh, ’14
. Max Adler,- ’89 John G. Mott, ’95 •	.
. Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09 "Paul J.-Smith, ’16
. C. I. Krajewski, ’16 Joseph P. Flynn, ’16 John P. Conboy, '16	-
W. W. Turner, ’16	.
Alfred-Fries, ’16 J. A. McCarthy, ’16 J. Harry Sylvestre, ’16 Harold P. Burke, ’16 Peter C. Yerns, ’16	’
-	f
Fred M. Pralatowski, 16 Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12 ‘ Edward-L. Figel, ’11 Thomas J. Dooley, ’97 Mark A. Devine, ’10 Daniel E. Cooney. ’10 Fremont Arnfield, ’12 W. W. Harless, ’86 Edward J. Walsh, ’00 Thomas Curran, '16
'■	$20.00.
Gabriel Davezac, ’94”
. James R. Devitt, ’13
~ Albert A. Gloeckner, ’16 . .	- .' - $15.00
Bernard Durch, ’13 “x - $10.00	-
. •' Alfred Vignos, ’95	-
' Andrew L. Shimp; ’91	.
Frank Niedecken, ’09 Harry. Kirk,x’i3 '	*
■ Louis. Chute,’92	•’
—J. J. Deasey, ’06
- H. .King, ’16 .
. James' E. Roach, ’16 .
- J. T5.’ Hogan, ’16	-	'
’.'Jr --"V ?	§5-00
~ Robert D. Murphy, .’01	.
Mark Duncan, '15 - -	’•
7- Hiram Halliday,’06 • ■ 7. : Claude S. Moss, .’95	-
'; John -Bell,'’08 ’ . ' ' : '
