LITTLE HANDS LILT TO LITTLE'S BAND
In This Issue:
NEWS
Juniors Set for Prom Tonight . • • University Theatre Readies Season's Opener . . . Debussy's "Prodigal Son" Here Next Week . . . Bengal Boxers Shape Up Well . . . The Week . . . Man About.
SPORTS
Cagers Invade Madison Square Garden . . . Thinlies Point West for Drake . . . Winter Sports Program Set.. . Irish Six Defeats lllini Hockey Hopes . . . Introducing . . . Splinters.
February 25, 1938
if
EVENING POST
thing but h ‘
every-aPPttjta
THEGATBANDmii
THEY match their wits against a lonelv nW * will find ;-
....o against a lonely old lady’s heart. You _ ___________ find them irresistible, this famil" engaging fakers, who live by their charm and off their friends and chance acquaintances. The author of “Furious Young Man” and “To The Vanquished” has written a truly lovely story of the four
Cariyons.

Mio could love a
GIRL ATHLETE?
Not columnist Ancell Hunt, who viewed all female athletes as a pain in the neck, including young Ellen Charles. He put that new golf meteor on the pan and let her sizzle. Ellen’s game cracked, but so did Hunt’s hate on girl golfers. Ellen, however, knew how to play a better recovery.
Interview by BROOKE HANLON

AND "SCUPPER THAT F0X!” cried the
Admiral. “After the blighter with a belaying pin!” The story of an incident’that nearly ruined the Meadowfield Hunt Club, by Edward Shenton... FRENCH SLEUTHS CAN’T CATCH CROOKS! Are the French really super-sleuths, or are they just plain cops—flatfeet with waxed moustaches-? Read Monsieur le Cop, by Guy Gilpatric...BROOKLYN MICK, sparring partner for champions, was doing O.K. until it turned out his backer was a dope smuggler. Eddy Orcutt tells you the story... PLUS .. . Serials, articles, fun and cartoons.
....
THE SATURDAY
A New Novel
_• »
HUB. WYLIE
Start it in this week’s Post


HE SHOT THE WORLDS MOST DAHGEROUS RAHD5 ...alone!
In a homemade boat, young Buzz Holmstrom shoved off last fall to do what no man ever did before: run the Colorado River alone, from Wyoming to Boulder Dam—and live! It took him 52 days to cover those 1100 miles, and an accident meant death by drowning or slow starvation. Here is the story of that incredible trip.
by ROBERT ORMOND CASE


The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188	''
Vol. 71	February 25, 1938	No. 17
JUNIORS SET FOR PROM TONIGHT
THREE HUNDRED COUPLES ON HAND TO DANCE TO LITTLE JACK LITTLE'S SWEET MUSIC TONIGHT AT THE PALAIS ROYALE; MISS ELEANOR LALLY IS PROM QUEEN
BY GEORGE HAITHCOCK
Tonight in the festively decorated Palais Royale 300 couples on hand for the annual Junior Prom will dance to the music of Little Jack Little and his orchestra.
Queen of the Prom will be Miss Eleanor Lally of Chicago, who will be the guest of the general chairman, Bart O’Toole. Miss Patricia Sloan of Jonesboro, Ark., the guest of honor, will be escorted by Paul McArdle, president of the Junior class.
The decorations are somewhat extensive and novel, and according to the members of the decorations committee there is a surprise in store for everybody. Something new and some-
Bandman Little
He drew a Golden Plum. . .
❖ thing different has been the motto of all the committees who have been working overtime to make this year’s Prom the best in years.
The patrons and patronesses are as follows: Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casa-santa, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Price, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bocskey, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Langwell, Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Smithberger, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Turley, Mr. and Mrs. Norbert Engels, and Mr. and Mrs. Cletus F. Chizek.
The lyrics for the Prom song have been composed by Jack Collins who will sing. The music was done by Art Davidson.
The dinner-dance will be held tomorrow night at the Oliver Hotel. John McGovern is chairman. Music will be furnished by' Myron Walz. The affair will start at 7:00 and come to an end at 11:30.
Music for the Prom will start at 9:30 and continue until 1:30. Promgoers are required to. be in their place of residence at 2:30 a.m. Automobiles will be permitted over the week-end provided they are registered with the Prefect of Discipline.
It was announced yesterday by O’Toole that 10:30 p.m. would be the dead-line for admission to the Prom. Anyone coming after that time will not be admitted.
The highlights of the evening will be the customary grand march and broadcast. The Prom will be broadcast, for a half hour period, over the South Bend station. The time has not definitely been set. Walter Hagan, Jr., will introduce the class president, the Prom chairmen, and other guests.
Prom Committees
The list of prom committees follows :
General chairman — Bartholomew D. O’Toole.
Music committee—James E. Rocap,
Chairman O’Toole And he a Queen.
chairman; Thomas A. Walker, J. Fred Simon, Harry J. Detzer, Vernon J. Sneider, Walter R. Cotton, Frank S. Pittman, James C. McArdle.
Ticket committee—John B. Wheeler, chairman; Maurice F. Leahy, Thomas Ziegler, J. James Bernard, Peter J. Fluge, Kryon W. Hanlan, G. Robert Campbell, Daniel J. Ryan.
Patrons committee—Louis B. Brady, chairman; Frank R. Kelly, Andrew J. Gannon, Andrew J. Felker, James C. Tansey, Joseph M. McKeon, Joseph M. Dunn, Paul H. Rice.
Decorations committee — Paul J. Mullen, chairman; James J. McGoldrick, David W. Harris, Thomas R. Bossort, Thomas C. Powers, George R. Fenn, Francis H. Vallez, William A. O’Loughlin.
Reception committee—Theodore P. (Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MRS. SHEED FOLLOWS HUSBAND ON PLATFORM WITH LECTURE ON CHESTERTON TONIGHT
.By F. G. Barreda
Perhaps no two literary contemporaries have disagreed so adversely on religion and philosophical outlook on life as did George Bernard Shaw and
Gilbert Keith Chesterton. Last Friday evening, Frank J. Sheed, eminent English publisher and author, speaking before a large audience in Washington
Hall, undermined the principles of “G.B.S.” Tonight Maisie Ward (Mrs. Frank Sheed) ascends the platform to lecture on “G.K.C.,” thus presenting the second half of the picture which depicts the contrary doctrines of Shaw and Chesterton.
Knew Chesterton Well
For 30 years Maisie Ward was acquainted with the late Chesterton and his immense contributions to the Catholic Intellectual Revival. She knew him as a personal friend, and then as an author whose works were published by her firm, Sheed & Ward. Recently, Mrs. Chesterton turned over her husband’s correspondence to Mrs. Sheed for the biographical work of the famous Catholic apologist.
Since 1918 Maisie Ward has been an outdoor speaker for the Catholic Evidence Guild, lecturing in more than 70 towns of England and America. As secretary to her father, Wilfrid Ward (the biographer of Cardinal Newman), she was in contact with the leaders of European Catholic thought; and since her marriage this contact has been widened to include practically every province of Catholic Christendom. She is now vice-president of the Catholic publishing house of Sheed & Ward.
Wrote Biography of Parents
Mrs. Sheed has just completed writing two volumes on the life of her father and mother, which, in reality, is a work dealing with the intimate history of the Church from 1890 to the present day. Her mother was niece of the Duke of Normandy, the most influential Catholic layman of the century; her father was intimate with Newman and Manning, with Tennyson and Huxley, with Aubrey de Vere and Lord Halifax, and with such Parliamentary leaders as Gladstone, George Wyndham and Balfour.
By heredity and training Maisie Ward is qualified beyond the average to express the Catholic view on the subjects on which she has speicalized. She is the author of: The Wilfrid Wards and the Transitino; Saint Bernardino: The People’s Preacher; Father Maturin, a Memoir; and has edited such works as CathoFc Evidence, Training Outlines, and The English Way.
Maisie Ward Sheed
G. K. C. lives again tonight.
First Plans Made For Rockne Program
•
James Graham, publicity director of the Kansas-Oklahoma Club has announced the tentative date for the presentation of the third annual Rockne Memorial program as Sunday evening, March 27.
Because of the fact that Knute Rockne met his tragic death in the state of Kansas, the Kansas-Oklahoma Club has been given the privilege of sponsoring an annual memorial for the beloved leader.
The program this year will feature the showing of some of the spectacular games which were played while “Rock” was head coach at Notre Dame. It is also planned to present the pictures of the Notre Dame-Minnesota game of the season just past.
Probable speakers for this year’s program will be Mal Edwards who was one of Rockne’s “subs,” and Charles E. “Gus” Dorais, who is now head football coach at Detroit University and with whom Rockne played during his football career. It was “Rock” and “Gus” who first developed the forward pass in football.
DEBATERS ARGUE AT MANCHESTER TODAY
•
The Manchester Debate Tournament will be the center of the Notre Dame forensic activity today and tomorrow. Both “A” and “B” debate squads are represented in the tourney, a two-day siege of pro-and-con arguments.
Last year the “B” team, substituting for a varsity squad, found its question and debate dates a trifle mixed, won nine out of ten in this contest; its record being equalled only by the host’s school. Tvro years ago the varsity placed second in the competition. What this year’s combination will do remains to be seen.
In the Manchester tournament about 60 mid-western colleges and universities are annually represented. Each school will debate at least ten times. Notre Dame’s men of the varsity will divide their program, with the negative debating six times and the affirmative anothei' six. The “B” team will engage in ten contests, with affirmative and negative taking on five opponents apiece.
In addition to this tournament, Notre Dame debaters will, Sunday evening, tilt with the Kent College of Law, a Chicago school, over the airwaves. The question for this contest will be: “Resolved: That the United States should extend armed protection to foreign investments.” The debate will be aired at 7:00 p.m. Notre Dame participants will be Tom Proctor and Robert Schmelzle, senior law students.
Plan Lenten Devotions
Annual Lenten services will begin at Notre Dame with the Forty Hours’ Adoration, Sunday, Feb. 27. Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C., will speak that night at services in Sacred Heart Church. The Forty Hours’ devotions will end with benediction Tuesday night, March 1.
The observation of the Lenten season proper begins on Ash Wednesday, March 2. Ashes will be distributed in Sacred Heart Church from 7:00 a.m., through and after the Mass. Breakfast on Ash-Wednesday will be at 8:00 a.m., and classes will begin at 9:00.
Daily adoration will again be a Notre Dame custom. Canvassers will this week go through all the halls seeking volunteers.
Other Lenten observances will be the Friday night Stations of t he Cross in every hall chapel.: Rev: Edgar Misch, C.S.C., will deliver the semi-weekly talks, every Wednesday and Sunday night, in Sacred Heart Church.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
SPIRIT LECTURER TO DEBUNK MEDIUMS
UNIVERSITY THEATRE STARTS YEAR'S ACTIVITY THURSDAY; TO PRESENT THREE PLAYS
By John J. Kohn
Do the dead speak through mediums? How did Kuda Bux, the East Indian psychic, walk through fire unharmed? How did the Boston medium cause the corpse of a New Hampshire manufacturer to sit up in his casket and talk to his widow? How do mediums perform psychic phenomena? All these questions, and many more, will be answered by Dean Howard Higgins of Emerson College, Boston, in his illustrated demonstration-lecture, “Among the Spirits,” scheduled for Monday evening in Washington Hall.
Fun To Be Fooled
“It’s fun to be fooled, but it’s more fun to know.” That is what Dean Higgins will demonstrate in his amazing revelation of the secrets employed by clandestine fortune tellers and spiritualistic pseudo-mediums in annually duping the public out of a sizeable amount of money. Advance reports from other colleges and universities comment on “Among the Spirits” as an extremely educational and entertaining lecture, highly impressive through its unique style, debunking attitude, and enlightening information.
The program is divided into two parts, the first being a composite seance made up of the best features of leading mediums, in which are demonstrated spirit forces, spirit forces, spirit vision, writing by an invisible hand, spirit slate writing, and the materialization of a spirit while the medium is securely bound. The second portion exposes the hoax of the self-termed “protagonists of psychic phenomena.”
Investigator of Mediumship
For many years Dean Higgins has been an extensive investigator of mediumship. It was while working on his doctorate in psychology that he first became interested in the subject. He undertook a complete study of magic in order to increase his effectiveness as an investigator. Hypnotism, psychology of persuasion, and behavior, are other subjects in his specialist line.
In addition to his deanship at Emerson College in Boston, Mr. Higgins is head of the Division of Psychology and Education of the College. He has written numerous articles and editorials in professional journals and is the author of Influencing Behavior Through Speech, Speech Reports, and Glimpses of the Public Mind.
Next Thursday evening the footlights in Washington Hall will brighten up the stage for the year’s first presentation by the University Theater players. Professor Mills, director of the group, has arranged a series of three one-act plays for the initial production. “Moonshine,” the first of the three plays to be
Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C.
Sorin men sent birthday greetings.
Father Farley Resting After Operation
•
Several telegrams and postcards have arrived at the University during the past week stating the condition of Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., who has been confined in Mayo’s Hospital in Rochester, Minn., since a serious operation a few weeks ago in which his left limb was amputated.
Father Murray, who was with Father Farley at the time of the operation and who remained with him for some time, returned to the University last Friday. He states that Father Farley is feeling much better. His condition is good and he is making rapid progress toward recovery.
Father Farley was pleased, Father Murray said, to have received innumerable telegrams of sympathy from his many friends throughout the country. Many of the telegrams came from people whom he did not know personally but who were admirers and who came to know him during his long experience at Notre Dame.
In spite of his present misfortune Father Farley is very optimistic. He is looking forward to returning “home” to Notre Dame very soon,
❖
presented, concerns the adventures of a revenue officer and a “moonshiner” of the Kentucky mountains. Art Mulhern and Vern Witkowski will play the parts of the officer and the mountaineer, respectively.
“Dark of the Dawn” which was scheduled for Thursday has been postponed until a later date. A highly dramatic play entitled “The Other Side,” a story of the death chamber in a state prison, has been substituted in its place. Those in the cast include George McDermott as the executioner, Bill Arnold as the assistant executioner, Vernon Witkowski as the warden and Frank Winninger as the reporter.
A comedy entitled “Refund” will conclude the evening’s dramatic entertainment. This comedy will reveal “water on the brain” Wasserkoph, a disgruntled university student who returns to his alma mater with the express purpose of getting his tuition returned to him. His antics will pro-
vide no end of laughter. The role of the student will be handled by Harold Sitt. The various professors will be represented by Ray Sadlier, Jerry Hogan, Vincent Doyle and George Wallace.
The next presentation by the Notre Dame dramatic club will be on March 17, when, in observance of St. Patrick’s Day, a vaudeville show will feature songs and short skits. Professor Mills has not as yet disclosed who would be featured in this “Irish Night” program.
Fr. Hope Speaks
The Servers’ Club of Notre Dame held a smoker Monday night, at 8:00 o’clock, in the Badin Rec room.
The Reverend Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., was the speaker at the meeting. Father Hope’s subject was the Life of Theresa Neuman. He discussed her unique case of stigmatism, and refuted any arguments indicating fraud.
having confided to Father Murray that he expected to be back to Notre Dame by the end of the basketball season.
Father Farley said in one of his postcards addressed to Sorin Hall that he believes he has received more Mass offerings and prayers now than he has in all his life. He asks the students of. Notre Dame to continue their prayers for him.
b
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHICAGO OPERA GROUP TO PRESENT ONE-ACT DEBUSSY COMPOSITION WEDNESDAY
By Donald A. Foskett
Straighten out that white tie and dust off those tails I Notre Dame is going to the opera! Yes, on next Wednesday evening, March 2, at eight o’clock proletary of Brownson and aristocrat of Alumni will sit side by side in the “diamond horseshoe” of Washington Hall to applaud arias and cry for encores.
The program will be presented by the Chamber Opera Company of Chi- ‘ cago.
The evening’s entertainment will consist of a one-act opera, “The Prodigal Son” (L’enfant Prodigue), by Claude Debussy, preceded by a short program of interesting songs, including solos and trios. “The Prodigal Son” is one of the most beloved and familiar Biblical stories set to music; it was this work which won for Debussy the coveted Prix de Rome in 1884, because of its melodi-, ous quality and poignancy of drama.
An outstanding cast will be headed by Leola Turner, soprano, a singer of marked ability, with an unusually beautiful voice. A few years ago Miss Turner came to Chicago from California, unknown and unheralded. Naturally gifted and brilliant she soon made' a place for herself in music circles as she made repeated appearances in concerts and recitals before various clubs and civic organizations in Chicago and the Mid-West. When the Chicago Civic Opera offered its scholarship for European study, Miss Turner entered the contest and won the scholarship with the unanimous vote of the judges.
In Milan, the greatest center of music study in Europe, Miss Turner’s remarkable voice came to the attention of the famous La Scala Opera; she was immediately engaged for leading roles and made her debut in the title part of “Lorelei.” She was then presented in concert at Rome, and was so successful that she decided to devote her future to concert and recital work.
She has since sung leading roles for the Chicago Civic Company, and has been featured with the Cincinnati Opera Company. Miss Turner is at her best in a concert, where she has ample opportunity to display her charming personality, her lyric voice, and her fine power of expression.
The tenor part will be sung by Robert Long, who has appeared with the Chicago Civic Opera in the leading tenor roles of “Faust” “Rigo-letto,” “La Traviata,” and others. He is not only recognized by critics of the concert stage, but he has also been featured on the radio networks for some time.
Raymond Koch, baritone soloist, has been a success in opera, oratorio, and on the concert platform. He has a voice of great flexibility.
Pierre de la Vergne He and Kennedy agree.
De La Vergne Defends Kennedy Report
•
“Joe Kennedy had the right idea. What this country needs is a good, strong, fearless merchant marine.” And the Wranglers, in the best traditions of their name and heritage, wrangled long and loud on this point, raised at their last night’s meeting by their president and speaker of the evening, Pierre de la Vergne.
Speaking in defense of the ancient traditions of the American merchant marine de la Vergne defended in all its details the report of Mr. Joseph Kennedy, at that time head of the Maritime Commission, and now the ambassador to the court of St. James. The report of the commission stated that the United States should use every means in its power toward building up a strong merchant fleet.
Leading the opposition were Robert Weaver and Frank Brame who took pains to point out the inevitable results of a powerful foreign trade: the necessity of extending protection to the traders which protection might lead to war being their principal argument.
At the next meeting of the club, Thursday, March 3, Bob Weaver will attack the Anti-Lynch bill which recently held up the deliberations of the United States Senate in a recordbreaking filibuster.
FR. MOORE TO TALK ON ST. THOMAS
•
The Schoolmen, headed by William Mahoney, are making elaborate plans for the week of March 6 in honor of the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, the patron of Catholic schools. On Sunday, March 6, there is to be a special sermon at all the masses in Sacred Heart Church on the merits of St. Thomas and of his intensive love for Catholic education.
The feast day proper is to be celebrated on Monday, March 7. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., will deliver a popular lecture on St. Thomas that night at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall.
March 10 is the tentative date set for the important annual philosophical disputation. The philosophical event was inaugurated in 1936 and has met with such unusual success, as shown by the attendance and interest on the part of the student body, that it has been decided to make it an annual affair.
This year’s disputation is in charge of the faculty advisers consisting of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.; and Rev. Albert A. Schlitzer, C.S.C. The general chairman of the affair is William Mahoney, president of the Schoolmen.
The subject of the disputation is to be “The Natural Law.” The formal defender (defendens) will be Edward McDonough; the formal objectors (arguentes) are Jerome Ledvina, William Botzum, Frederick Crollard, James Blunt, and Thomas Kavanaugh.
Following the formal discussion by the actual participants, the general student body in attendance will be given the opportunity to express their views and partake in general discussion.
Robert McGrath has been appointed to answer all of these informal objections.
In addition to these discussion two other talks have been scheduled: James Nerney will talk on “St. Thomas, Apostle of the Modern Mind,” and George Keenan will talk on the “Liberalistic and Thomistic Views of the Natural Law.”
Junior Prom (7 925 J
“Multochromatic forms glimmer-ingly gliding amidst glinting lights from coruscating chandeliers — smiling, happy faces — rippling feminine laughter—chuckling masculine voices —rhythmic orchestral cadences, exuberant, mellifluous.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
[ Music Notes
\_______________________________/
By Paul R. Locher
Guiseppi Vei'di is one of the most popular composers of opera, if the number of his operas selected for broadcast from the Metropolitan be any criterion. The two earlier presentations of “La Traviata” and “H Trovatore” were written in the Italian idiom, but Saturday’s broadcast of “Aida” will reveal a decided change in Verdi’s style.
Verdi always disclaimed any Wagnerian influence, but the fact that he deserted the simplicity of the Italian tunes and produced works -with rich harmonies and really expressive melodies like the German music-dramas seems to indicate that he was influenced in spirit, if not in letter, by the dynamic Wagner, as were his contemporaries.
In 1871, at the time of the Suez Canal dedication, Egypt was celebrating the opening of the Cairo Grand Opera House. The Khedive of Egypt asked the famous Verdi to name his own price for an opera which would extol the past glories of Egypt. Verdi, seeking to discourage the Khedive, set $20,000 as his price, but it was fulfilled eagerly. The premiere of “Aida” at Cairo met with tremendous enthusiasm, and since that time the opera has been a universal favorite, because of the freshness, variety and forcefulness of its music.
Saturday’s performance will present Zinka Milanov, new Jugoslavian soprano in the title role, supported by Giovanni Martinelli and Ezio Pinza.
*
Sir Ernest MacMillan, at present, conductor of the Toronto Symphony orchestra, has succeeded Fritz Reiner as conductor on the Ford Sunday Evening Hour. Sir Ernest bears the distinction of being the first man in the British Empire outside Great Britain to be knighted for his services to music. He will have Kirsten Flagstad, Scandanavian soprano who has exhausted the superlatives of Wagnerian devotees, as the guest soloist on his first program. Mme. Flagstad has had the recognition of royalty also, having received last summer in Oslo, the order of St. Olaf, First Degree, which is the highest honor which the King and Queen of Norway can bestow.
As an interesting sidelight, Toscan-nini has included in his Saturday evening concert the same symphonic poem which Sir Ernest will present on the following evening, “The Mol-dau” by Friederich Smetana. It will be enlightening to compare the indi-(Continued on Page 22)
"PLAIN AND FANCY MANSLAUGHTER IN STORE FOR BENGALS" PROMISES "ONE-HORSE"
By William C Fay
Mr. Adrian Joseph Race—whose sobriquet of “One-Horse” receives various inflection about campus—has comfortable bachelor quarters on the third floor of Sorin. At first sight Mr. Race was reclining on a large mat in the center of the room. He seemed deeply interested in a thick volume entitled Elementary a Manslaughter. Occasionally his free । hand strayed to a nearby sack to _—bring forth black walnuts which he
“One-Horse” Race
Not as harmless as he looks.
Prominent Businessman Addresses Forum
Arvid L. Frank, president of the Studebaker Export Corporation, spoke on foreign trade and domestic economy last week to the members of the Commerce Forum.
Mr. Frank outlined two reasons why he believes the American people should encourage imports: (1) Forty percent of the value of all imports’ go to American labor, (2) To sell American products abroad, since that is the only way foreign nations can pay for the American products they buy.
The Studebaker executive praised Secretary of State Cordell Hull and President Roosevelt for leading the world back to sanity in foreign trade.
Their 16 treaties cover one-third of our foreign trade.
The must important key in Secretary Hull’s current program is the trade treaty with Great Britain. Mr. Hull’s entire program has been based on extending note preference to any nation, thereby avoiding all discriminations.
Mr. Frank concluded his commerce talk by quoting the late Dwight Morrow, former ambassador to Mexico, and New Jersey senator: “Nations, like individuals, judge others by their actions, and they judge themselves by their ideals.”
Following Mr. Frank’s talk, President Brosius discussed the program for the tentative trip to Chicago on March 8, and the visits to Chicago’s leading commercial centers. Treasurer Dave Meskill read a report on the Commerce Forum dance.
crunched steadily, pausing only to expel the shattered shells toward a refuse can in the corner.
“Mr. Race?”
He looked up. “That’s me.”
“Mr. Race, I’d like a little story for Scholastic. Not the usual blurb about your wrestling artistry, but something personal, something with the homey tang in it.” -
He looked back to his book. “See my publicity man. His name’s Cuff or Huff or Duff or something—he hangs out in Morrissey. He’ll give you the dope.”
“That’s just the point, Mr. Race. This publicity man of yours and his cronies on the sport page are building you up into a campus monstrosity. Now we want a story with human interest for the news section, something that will establish a personal bond between you and our readers. So, Mr. Race, a few questions if you don’t mind.”
“Shoot.”
“Have you any philanthropies?” “Never sick a day in my life.” “No, no, I’m afraid you don’t understand, Mr. Race. Do you ever, for instance, bring bread crumbs from dinner to put down on the snow for the birds?”
“No.”
“Hmmmm. Well, perhaps a glimpse into your daily life will suffice, Mr. Race. How do you start things off in the morning?”
He gestured. “I use that weight machine on the wall.” He shed corduroys and sweatshirt and stood forth in purple trunks—muscular, sinewy, a pulsating Saturday-night steak. He grabbed the handles and threshed his arms making the 40 lb. weights at the rope ends dance jig-time up-and-down their steel guide posts. . . soon the odor of singed hemp was perceptible. A pulley squeaked. Mr. Race let go the handles. “Pulley’s need oil,” he explained equably.
“What’s next, Mr. Race?”
“Well, generally I limber up on these parallel bars. He hopped up nimbly and did a hand-walk.
“Off the record, Mr. Race and dismissing the perennial sport page bal-
(Continued on Page 22)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHEED DECRIES SHAW GREATNESS MYTH
•
“His work already belongs to history, but I doubt if history will have him.” Mr. Francis J. Sheed thus closed his lecture on “The Significance of George Bernard Shaw, given last Friday night in Washington Hall.
Mr. Sheed gave a short synopsis of Shaw’s life: his birth in Dublin and his early soap-box career. While still a young man Shaw became a Socialist, although his views embarrass even them. His outstanding characteristic is that he is against — against home, family, capitalism, the entire social structure of the present generation. He is inconsiderate and merciless in his attacks on society and individuals, as contrasted to his kindness displayed toward personal friends.
Although George Bernard Shaw will be forgotten soon after his death, it is almost certain that his ideas will continue to circulate and his general antipathy and materialistic attitude will survive in his followers.
According to Mr. Sheed, Shaw is great, not because of his ideas, since few of tliem are original, having been stated by his model, Butler, but because he says things more sensationally than others have ever said them, and because his efforts have been characterized by a deep sincerity.
Sewage Expert Talks
Featuring a lecture by Dr. Emanuel Hurwitz, the Engineers’ Club held its first open meeting of the year in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering last week. Approximately a hundred were present.
Dr. Hurwitz, assistant chief chemist and Director of Laboratories for the sanitary district of Chicago, spoke on the problem of sewage disposal. He explained how the city handled this problem, noting the fact that the amount of sewage from the city’s stockyards alone, was equivalent to that of a city of a million population. Illustrating his talk with slides, Dr. Hurwitz explained the three methods by -which Chicago now disposes of its refuse, which are the Actidated Sledge Process, the Imhoff Process, and chemical treatment. He said that cement, used in these processes, is greatly strengthened by the addition of a small quantity of fly ash.
Dr. Hurwitz said that game fish might be found in the Chicago River within two miles of the city, despite the fact that this river is used as a depository for sewage. The reason for this, Dr. Hurwitz declared, is the ready aeration of the water.
The next meeting will feature a talk by Mr. W. R. Heck.
Man About the Campus
Thomas Patrick Mulligan, orator, debater, world traveller and pugilist, is Cleveland Heights number one man at N. D. His name, reminiscent of Irish stew and his face resembling that of Clashmore Mike, plus his Bengal exploits, make him one of the real “Fighting Irish.” His intimates call him “Bag Ears,” but his freshman brother, who towers over him affectionately dubbed him “Mugg.”
As one of the founders of 38’s now famous political machine he was elected class president for the soph-
omore year. He contributed to last year’s campaign by keeping still.
He forms half of the terrible team of Mulligan and Osborn for Professor Coyne’s debate squad. Mows down opponents by saying twice as much as any two normal humans in half the time. [It is rumored that he was once clocked at 300 words per minute.] Only once has he ever been flustered on the platform—his roomie walked into the Marquette debate and caught “Mugg”. wearing said roomie’s new suit.
President of the Cleveland Club, member of the Wranglers, class orator and socialite—add to these a magna cum laude and you can understand why he keeps busy.
A true cosmopolite, Tom is equally at home hanging over the rail of a trans-Atlantic liner or the balcony of the Follies Bergere. Ask him about ship-board romances sometime.
Brags about his golf game because he broke a hundred once. Chet
KENNEDY GIVES S.E.C.
LECTURE TODAY
e
Mr. W. McNeil Kennedy, regional administrator of the Securities and Exchange Commission at Chicago, presented a timely lecture before the junior and senioi- Commerce students this afternoon on “The Work of the Securities and Exchange Commission.”
The aim of the commission is to do away with the exploitation of the small investor by the “big boys” by means of the sale of unsound or worthless securities. In order to accomplish the abolishment of such fraud, the S.E.C. aims to place sufficient and valid information in the hands of the investors. It is hoped that with the alleviation of the fear of dishonsety the small business man and investor will bring his money out of hoarding and will be induced to invest it.
The commission hopes to accomplish these ends by preventing the excessive use of credit in the financing of speculations in the field of securities. It makes available honest and reliable information which is sufficient to acquaint the investor with current business conditions of the various companies, and with the securities he wishes to buy or sell.
Though the S.E.C. has not the power to express its own preferences in the investment field, it has the power to force the disclosure of all the material facts involved. Thus it is enabled to place the necessary information at the disposal of all investors and then leaves the choice up to the individual.
Mr. Kennedy began his lecture at 2:15 this afternoon and continued through the 3:15 period. The juniors and seniors in the College of Commerce were excused from these classes.
has unsuccessfully tried bribing him to stay off the course.
Stays up nights devising ways to keep his room mate from spending ■. the Easter holidays at the Mulligan Manor in Cleveland. He just can’t tolerate competition.
"Mugg” resents being asked why he doesn’t enter the Bengals any more. Says he is too busy but the fact is that a comely Cleveland lass, late of the Woods, thought his nose was getting flattened out.
Plans entering law next fall, but refuses to divulge what law school is getting his talents. We suspect Harvard.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
FRESHMEN TO ELECT OFFICERS, MARCH 3
•
The grinding of political axes, distantly heard at the start of the semester, swells to a distinct crescendo, with the announcement this week by the S.A.C. of the first of the year’s elections, the officers of the freshman class.
John Kelley, senior S.A.C. member has been appointed general chairman of the election committee and will be in charge of all class elections. The
S.A.C.’s John Kelley-
“Ward bosses” fear him.
first of his worries is already here. Freshman elections are to be held next Thursday, March 3.
Although these. elections are usually a rather tame curtain-raiser to the more serious intrigues and smoke-filled plots of the later hair-pullers, they are nevertheless a source of much interest to the members of the class. It is expected that this year, as in the past, the bewildered and inexperienced politicians of ’41, will attempt some daring coup in an attempt to land the “Pride of Freshman (or Zahm, or Cavanaugh, or Brownson)” in the leader’s seat.
This year the elections will be run off in prompt and efficient style. Both nominations and elections will be held on the same day and at the same place. To see that no disorder results will be the task of Mr. Kelley and his S.A.C. aids. Immediately after dinner on March 3 nominations will be held in the south stands of the University field house. The election will follow immediately after the nominations are closed.
As the Scholastic goes to press further information on the election is not available, but will be posted later. The first requisite for candidates is that they be passing in all subjects at the end of their first semester, and that they have no other flunks against their record.
I	THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Washington’s 206th Birthday.
On the one-hundred-and-sixty-third anniversary of the birth of George Washington, shortly after ten o’clock in the morning, Professor G. Ewing, ’86, stepped out on the stage of Washington Hall and presented a silk flag to the school in the name of Mr. Samuel T. Murdock, ’86, who was sick in bed with the mumps. Previous to this, since 1844, Washington’s birthday was observed with a four or five hour program of speeches, orations, readings, odes, poems, plays, and, if the weather was favorable, with a drill by the flashy University regiment.
The idea of presenting a flag was good and the Scholastic was not slow to realize it. The same day the first flag was presented the Scholastic thundered editorially for a flag that could be flown every day of the year (it seems Mr. Murdock specified that his flag could be flown only on holidays). The Scholastic went on to say that the flag should be presented by the Senior class and raised and lowered every day by the class.
The Scholastic editorials must have carried a lot of weight in those days for the very next year, 1897, the Senior Class gave the University a flag that could be flown every day of the year. But nothing was said about having the Senior Class raise and lower it every day. Perhaps it was . better that nothing was said about it because it certainly would present something of a problem nowadays to have some five hundred fellows over at the flag pole raising and lowering Old Glory. It would be especially bad if the boys had to be garbed in caps and gowns. One dollar and fifty cents a day, every day, would run into quite a sum. However, that’s something for the Moore Company to think about if they haven’t anything else to do until they bring their $1.50 caps and gowns out for the Commencement.
We won’t bother to go into the main points of the two-hundred-and-sixth anniversary of Washington’s birthday because they will be well-reported and deservedly praised on other pages.
We planned to finish this article off with some information on why they had the words to the Star-spangled Banner printed on the program, why the boys didn’t sing, the cost of the flag (rumored: $32.50), who pays for it, what they do with the old flags, and what happened to the fellows that didn’t attend the exercises. But we couldn’t find anyone who had the slightest bit of information, so we started to walk out of the hall think
ing how dignified and solemn our classmates looked. We didn’t pay-much attention to where we were going and we walked right smack into a pitched snowball in front of Sorin between the cap and gowned gentlemen of Walsh and the cap and gowned men of Sorin.
•
Act of God
Headline in the February 18th issue of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, “INDIANA WEATHER UPHELD BY COURT AS ‘ACT OF GOD’.”
Now-jiist-zvhat-is-it-? dept.
“In keeping with the tradition begun in 1897, John C. O’Connor, president of the Senior Class, will present a large American flag to the University.” Page 3 last week’s issue.
“The first flag presentation, however, was not made until 1896 when the Senior Class presented a flag. . .” Same article.
“The concert (Little Symphony orchestra) made a very tremendous ‘hit’. . .” Editorial.
“General opinion labeled the group on the most part as listless. . .” News story, page 8.
•
The Prom
Those who think that this year’s Scholastic caused quite a bit of a stir with its Junior Prom write-up evidently never heard of the ’33 Scholastic’s now almost legendary Prom story. The 1933 Prom was held in the dining hall with an Arabian setting of hidden lights, bizarre decorations, and an an oasis made with a carload of sand and a few palms borrowed from a local funeral establishment. In the Scholastic that came out the Friday afternoon of the Prom the writer of “The Week” one Jim Carmody, filled his column with Prom comments. Thereby hangs the tale. Carmody’s unintentional punch line went something like this, “And the happy, entranced couples will be dancing over the dining hall floor as soon as the kitchen help have the pork chops swept off the floor.” You can imagine the stir it made!
But few, if any, will be concerned with the pork chops story or the absence of Mr. Lopez as they drift out on the polished floor of the Palais Royale and dance to the rather . smooth music of the highly esteemed Little Jack Little. We haven’t space to say anything else other than we. haven’t yet heard whether Little Jack Little will be at the Palais again tomorrow night at 35 cents a couple.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Reverie
When the year’s last test is corrected and the tubes have been made Tau Bete,
When unpleasant memories have faded of reports that were three weeks late,
We shall rest, and faith, we shall need it—lay down for a day or two,
Till our empty stomach and pockets shall set us to work anew.
And those that were good shall be happy; they shall sit in a padded chair
With their feet on a 10-foot desk top, reading the daily Blare;
With a credit balance to draw from, and a month’s vacation each fall
They shall sit for an age at their working, and never be tired at all.
And only one master shall praise us, and only one master shall blame;
And each one shall work for the money, notoriety, graft, or fame;
And each when his work is over, shall hie to his favorite bar,
And blame the Republican party for the state of things as they are.
—Michigan Tech Lode.
Jottings
The Aquinas tells of the student who put quotation marks around all the answers of examination papers “just as a little courtesy to the man who sat on my left.”. . . The Ram sez: This Henry R. Luce is a mighty lucky fellow. He’s got Life Fortune and Time. What more could a man want?. . . There is a professor out at the University of Iowa who reverses the usual process of sleeping through a class. He occasionally begins class with the threat, “I think I’ll sleep through class time.” And then, according to reports, -makes good his threat. . . He who puts off studying until tomorrow will have a good time tonight. . . The Aggriev-ator pens a definition for broadmindedness; it being the ability to smile when you suddenly discover that your roommate and your girl are missing from the dance floor. . .
—o—
Caf Conversation
First law student: Is this peach or apple pie?
Second ditto: Why, can’t you tell from the taste of it?
First ditto: No!
Second ditto: Then what difference does it make?
—o—
Hither and Yon
Cribbed from the Alabamian: As (Continued on Page 23)
O'CONNOR PRESENTS ANNUAL FLAG
“There is an unfortunate tendency to regard the Constitution of the United States as the lock, stock, and barrel of our American institutions. When both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution are embraced in its consideration, the Constitution unquestionably is the sheet-anchor of our liberties and spirit.”
Thus did Professor Clarence E. Manion, professor of law, address the seniors in the 93rd annual Washington Day exercises Tuesday morning in Washington Hall.
Senior Prexy O’Connor Did his duty.
In speaking on “The Soul of the Constitution,” Professor Manion declared that the mere letter of the constitution sometimes is given an exalted position which it does not deserve.- It is the spirit of the document that lends permanent importance to its provisions.
Preceding Professor Manion’s address, impressive flag ceremonies were held at which time a new American flag was presented to the University by John C. O’Connor, president of the Senior Class. The flag was accepted on the part of the University by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the school.
The Washington Day oration was delivered by Thomas P. Mulligan who spoke on “Washington and the College Man.” Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., read an ode of his own composition appropriate to the ceremonies.
The exercise was the occasion for the first appearance in cap and gown of the 561 members of the graduating class. The seniors marched for the first time in their scholastic lives down the historic steps of the Main Building and in procession to Washington Hall.
The ceremonies also marked the first public appearance of the Notre
[	. Calendar j
Friday, February 25
Junior Prom, Palais Royale, 9:30 to 1:30 a.m.; Basketball, varsity vs. New York University, at Madison Square Garden; Meeting, Marine club; Meeting Scholastic staff, editorial staff, 7:00, general staff, 7:30.
Saturday, February 26
Dinner dance for prom-goers, Oliver hotel, 7:00 to 11:30 p.m.; Movie, “Mr. Dodd Takes the Air” with Kenny Baker, first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20; Basketball, varsity vs. Colgate at Albany, N. Y.; Fencing, Purdue vs. varsity, field house; Track, Drake vs. varsity at Des Moines, Iowa.
Sunday, February 27
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10:00 a.m.; Start of 40-Hour devotions at close of 8:30 mass; Benediction and sermon by Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C., 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, February 28
Demonstration lecture by Dr. Higgins, “Among the Spirits,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting Met club, faculty dining hall; 7:45 p.m.; Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to Benediction at 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, March 1
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to benediction at 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall chambers, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 2
Ash-Wednesday, beginning of Lent, distribution of ashes before, during, and after 7:00 mass in Sacred Heart church; Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Devotions and Benediction; Breakfast at 8:00 a.m.; Classes start at 9:00 a.m.; Chicago Opera Company in Debussy’s “Prodigal Son,” Washington Hall, 8:30 p.m.; Meeting, Engineers club; Meeting, Iowa club.
Thursday, March 3
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Services and Benediction; Meeting, Wranglers, seminar room, Law building, 8:00 p.m.; Opening, University Theatre Season, three one-act plays, starting 8:00, Washington Hall.
Dame Symphony orchestra under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the music department. The symphony presented three numbers: “Pomp and Circumstance,” by Sir Edward Elgar, Jan Sibelius’ tone poem, “Finlandia,” and a recessional.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Deflation
The headline, “Winter Sports Plans in Making” (Scholastic, Feb. 18, 1938) brought visions of ski slaloms, downhill races on bobsleds, and crosscountry treks on snowshoes. Bright pictures flashed our carefree students, with a glow in their cheeks, lugging skis over their shoulders, doing Henie swirls on the ice, and the Magee boys slashing a puck toward a goal marked, perhaps, “Dartmouth.”
The first paragraph of the story made the fleecy air castles disappear as fast as fresh air in a Pittsburgh steel boom. “Billiards, bowling, and ping-pong will be featured,” it said. Oh, well, perhaps we expected too much. Mayhap a good round-robin of Duck-pins will bring out the he-man in one and put that steely glint in the eye that makes a person say to himself, after an introduction, “Here now is a man who trods the earth with springy stride and asks quarter of no one.”
Here and There
For the shut-ins this ad from the Saturday Review of Literature might be of some help: “Intelligent woman, in her forties, good letter writer, will write friendly letters to male shutins, lonely males, interested in poetry, literature, current events. No dates.” (Of course—“No dates”) . . . Latest synonym on the campus for smugness, “Oh, get that Nicholson “We beat Indiana” look off your face.” . . . Our correct-speech lesson of the week came from a freshman at the Michigan State game. “Have you,” he inquired of a friend, “located Adolph, the apple-vender, as yet?” . . . Connotative name: Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, home town of Fred Fowler .. . Danny Ryan, the pointed paragrapher, came through with this bit: “What satisfaction it must give the laundry workers to go home in the evening after tearing off a good day’s work.” . . . One of our seniors who graduated from high school in 1934 (and one of the few who doesn’t say he had to work a couple of years after graduation as a defense for old age) received a letter from his parents in which was enclosed a letter from his former principal asking the reason for his absences from school last month and further warning that he would be suspended if he didn’t return to school immediately. Proving another of Hutchins’ points . . . Andrew P. Habinek, 22, of Cleveland, in seeking a job, advertised himself as “lazy, shiftless, disinterested, untrustworthy and wanting a job with short hours and big pay.”
He received 120 phone calls in reply. P.S. There was no mention of his getting a job . . . Rumor: Hal Kemp for the Senior Ball ... In his name and that of his home town, Ralph Wingfield has more implications than any we’ve found in school. His full name is Ralph Gabriel Wingfield and he hails from Lynchburg, Va. Lynch —Wings—Gabriel. We’ve got something there . . . Johnny Murphy, who has been deluging station WFAM with requests for “Peg O’ My Heart” has received final word that the record can’t be found and will he please request something else such as “The Lavender Lace Waltz” which is still getting a big play from the Spinster’s Home . . . Conversation: “The boys here are getting sissified. Why no one has been thrown in the lake in months.” “Naw, they’re not getting sissified—just too lazy to chop holes in the ice.” . . . Watch for the Junior in the Inverness cape tonight at the Prom. He insists that the traditions of Miller Mallet must be carried on . . . Last notice received: The Juniors DO have a band to play for their prom tonight. Little Jack Little has faithfully promised to show up. The Juniors will have a prom tonight . . . For those who leave their transoms open: “Don’t snore device. $1.00 postpaid. For snorers and mouthbreathers. Satisfaction or money back. S. K. Thaxly Co., Washington,
Isn’t that clock a little fast? I hope”
D.C.” The “satisfaction or money back” failed to specify whether it meant the sleeper or listeners ... A survey has just shown that the new generation of Southerners doesn’t say “larn” for “learn” or “bar” for “bear” so the pseudo - Southerners who have been laying on the salve that brings whiffs of mint and cottonseed haven’t a leg to stand on.
Wal?
Did you or didn’t you do it?
Father, I . . . uh . . .
Come clean now, you realize what this means to me.
Yes, Father, I know.
Well?
Uh, you see, Father . . . er . . . that is . . .	.
Stop mumbling and answer my question, young man!
Father, I don’t mean to be uncouth, but. . .
For the last time, did you or didn’t you do it?
Please don’t rush me, Father, it . . . um . . . er . . . happened . . .
All right then, if you won’t tell me I’ll refer you to . . .
Oh no, Father! Please! Not that!
Ha, I knew you’d come clean Now, did you chop that cherry tree?
Yeh, Pop, I did it with my little hatchet.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C............Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT................   Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA....................  ...Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams_________________________________The IV eel(
John Callaghan_____________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford__________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey______________________________Netas	Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk________________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_____________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_______________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey___________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay___________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman_______________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli______________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto-------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson---------------------------Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan______________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore------------------------------------Art Editor
Tom Powers---------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71	February 25, 1938	No. 17
Important Event
IN EARLY and medieval times Catholics went to mass to actually outwardly manifest their devotion by singing the responses to the mass. It must have been a magnificent spectacle in those days to see and hear an entire congregation sing the Gregorian chant.	‘
However, since then, the practice has almost been abandoned in most churches. Today, very few churches in this country continue the practice. Why the traditional, ideal practice of response in the form of the Gregorian chant has been abandoned we don’t know. But the fact remains that the churches that continue or have revived the practice can be counted on the fingers of your hands.
The ideal of everyone participating in outward manifestation in singing the act of faith should be revived. And it is with great satisfaction that we note its revival at Notre Dame. As we write this, every night in hall chapels students are rehearsing the Credo. Soon the whole school shall know it and then on a Sunday in Lent Notre Dame will return to the medieval practice that was so inadvertently abandoned. The Gregorian chant will again be heard, sung by the congregation, as is proper, and the mass will be enhanced and in part returned to the glory of the medieval ages.
Thanks should be extended to the music department . and the individual students who are fostering the singing at evening prayer. Their work will long be remembered at Notre Dame. '
"True" Propaganda
MERELY saying “we are on the threshold of another great international crisis” has been earmarked as a trite expression since the time when Herr Hitler and Duce Mussolini—co-presidents of the Dictator’s Association of the World—assumed power and decided respectively that the Nordic race is superior to all others and that the Mediterranean should be a “Roman lake” as in the days of Italy’s predecessors. Whether these be disguises for other aims and whither such masquerades may lead have, until the past week, been sweet and juicy kernels of conjecture for radio commentators and newspaper writers to generalize upon.
But at this point, it is definite that generalizations pertaining to the strained European situation must be narrowed, though opinionated premises and conclusions are certain to be multiplied at least for the present.
Regardless of the paths to be eventually followed by either the Nazis or Fascists, we should remind ourselves of the excellent opportunity offered for war propaganda to begin breeding, spreading, and infesting even intelligent minds which have been gradually harrowed and tempered by catch-words and slogans. No better an example demonstrates the feasibility of such an cankerous plan than the period previous to the United States’ entrance into the World War when the majority of Americans depicted every German soldier as a murderer, rapist, and a blood-thirsty soldier of fortune. The forcefulness of this universal attitude in the United States demanded the pre-war resignation of a university professor who refused to fall under the sway of public opinion and who decried against the United States going to war; after these many years, “justice” was finally ladled out during the recent past when the previously guilty “prof” was given a total human vindication and reimbursed financially. This kind of “justice” indicated that the dissenting professor’s words might have been amplified rather than restrained in the pursuance of “freedom of speech” versus propaganda.
With the choking dust clouds of World War propaganda at our backs and with the present events leadingdown the same marked trail as that preceding the World War, prepared minds will be cognizant of the danger signals and able to evaluate true and false propaganda— if there be a possibility for the former.
Around the Corner
WITHIN two weeks the more than half-hundred aspirants for the coveted Bengal championships will begin to crawl into the resin and roped arena of swat to battle clean and fair in the Bengal preliminaries. And only three weeks from tonight the finalists will meet in the biggest and best carnival of champions ever presented by the Scholastic for the benefit of far away and worthy Bengal missions. A tumultuous acclaim from a packed house will applaud their efforts. This is one show no one need miss; nor ought to miss. Will YOU be one of the thousands present to see the fights; will you be one to aid a benevolent cause?
Your opportunity will come next week and during all the short weeks remaining before the BIG NIGHT, March 18. For next week the coveted ducats for the event will be put on sale by the Scholastic at the traditional low-price of a quarter. Get on the Bengal band-wagon for a great big entertainment at little cost to you. Buy your ticket at your earliest convenience. We’ll be seeing you at the ringside.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
rothers All
BY CLYDE ARCHER
fAN THE East Side of Waterstown all the better shops are located.
Each store keeps a watchman during the winter months. I was part-time watchman for the Elite Clothing Store, on the corner of Main and Sixth. All I had to do was to go through each department every hour and check to see if things were going all right. Nothing ever happened. I usually made the round of the seven departments in about twelve or fifteen minutes and returned to the rear right corner on the first floor, among the men’s department, where I had my little office. When time came to make the next trip my alarm clock would ring.
The last day in February I was called and Mr. Marks, the manager, said I could work for a couple of weeks, as old man Trainer, the regular* watchman, was home sick in bed. The weather was bad, and the snow fell hard enough to stick on the pavement. I got to the store and made my first round. I came back to the corner and sat down.
When a person sits alone in the dead of night he can think wonderfully. Quiet, still everything is, and your mind is in perfect working order. Occasionally a car swishes past and you break up what you’re thinking about, oi" maybe someone walks by and the footsteps sound like regular taps on a tight drum.
It- was after I’d made my fourth round that night and just returned to the corner. The hands of my clock pointed to four-fifteen a.m. I heard a shot, another, and then a long series of shots. It sounded as if they came from around on the corner at Peterson’s Jewelry Store.
I ran to the front windows and looked out. There was a white blanket on the pavement. A siren wailed out from somewhere in the distance, and I knew there had been a store break.
I turned and started back to the corner, because I couldn’t leave the store; but I wheeled suddenly and
MBH

THE TRAMP
By FRANCIS HENRY VALLEZ
Night Falls;
He lies asleep upon the park grounds.
Morning calls;
He wakes to the early morning sounds.
Neio day;
The very same as the one before.
All play;
Nothing ever seems to be in store.
Clear sky,
The beautiful starry ceiling of his home.
Never try
To do anything much better than to roam.
At ease;
Lingering all day long in the park.
The trees;
His shelter when the sky turns dark.
Dreaming
Of owning merely a few cents.
Scheming;
His thoughts, nothing but nonsense.
The tramp,
As he lives his careless and shapeless life,
The lamp
Of human kindness lights and eases his strife.
~~
All students interested in submitting for publication in the Scholastic short stories, poems, familiar essays, essays in historical or literary criticism, are invited to bring manuscripts to the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria Building, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to room 328 Main Building, mornings from 9 to 11 or evenings from 8 to 9 o’clock.
ran to the window, again. From around the corner a block up I saw the lights and heard the purr of a high-powered car coming. I thought, “If that guy tries to turn the corner!” He made it, and, slipping and weaving, he came down the street facing the Elite. His speed picked up as he came. ' Why, the crazy guy, he’d never make the turn at Main if he tried!
He must have been making fifty, for when he flipped the wheel the car started skidding and came straight for the Elite Clothing Store. Just as the black body smashed the window, I jumped to the right. With a roar the entire left window came crashing down. The car weaved after it hit and stopped, and then settled with a slow rock. I heard a siren closer now.
I went to the wrecked car and there were four men in it, two in front and two in back. The front two were out cold, and the one nearer to me in the back was too. I looked at the fourth one, still groaning, first at the tommy-gun on his lap, and then his face.
He was my brother!
The only thing that came to my mind was to get him out. Larry was pretty heavy, but in a few seconds I had him out and concealed. By the time the cops arrived I was back beside the car, standing and waiting.
I don’t know if I did right, taking my brother and not letting the cops find him. He may have been the one who killed the watchman at Peterson’s. They said he was pretty well shot up.
I still work at the Elite, for Mr. Trainer died, but things aren’t the same. It’s still quiet and all, and I said you could think things out better, but my mind seems to turn to thinking if I did right by hiding my brother, and about the watchman killed at Peterson’s Jewelry Store. For he was my brother too !
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
CAGERS IN ANNUAL GARDEN BATTLE WITH N.Y.U. TONIGHT; MEET COLGATE SATURDAY
The Notre Dame basketball squad plays before its biggest crowd of the
season—17,000 people—tonight at Madison Square Garden, against New York University. Right after the game the Irish head upstate for the game with Colgate at Albany Saturday night. This is the only occasion in the whole
schedule in which the Irish must play two games in two nights; so a peakform games against N.Y.U. tonight may have its reaction in a poor showing against the Red Raiders tomorrow.
Twice so far this year, the Violets have played games on consecutive nights. Three weeks ago they made a Southern trip, played three games in three nights, and lost two of them. They gave their most disgraceful performances of the year, being trimmed by the University of Richmond, and overwhelmed by North Carolina, 57-39. However, they recovered the next week, playing three games in four nights and winning two. Their defeat came when they left New York again to meet powerful Temple-in a doubleheader at Philadelphia Temple is the team which caught and defeated both Minnesota and Stanford earlier in the year, after the two western visitors had enjoyed two successful nights at Madison Square Garden.
There is little difference between Colgate and the Violets. They met once, in New York, with N.Y.U. winning by one point. Their records are just about the same, -with Colgate meeting only eastern teams, and winning or losing all its games by close scores. N. Y. U. has a good record against other eastern teams, but has been rather badly knocked around by such outsiders as Minnesota, Richmond, and North Carolina.
N.Y.U. perhaps should be considered a better team than the Red Raiders, both because of its one-point victory and its more exacting schedule. However, man for man, Colgate’s first give — Dieffenbach, high scorer Johnny Debun, Hazzard, the recently eligible Ustimovich, and Sawyer or Captain Pick Turevon—are quite the equal of N.Y.U.’s starters—Bernie Carnevale, Si Boardman, Irwin Witty, Jerry Tarlow, and Bob Lewis. Likewise the Violet subs are well-matched by Clinton, Collins, Barrett, Gilson and Corts, the Maroon reserves. Colgate is fast, N.Y.U. is
(Continued on Page 23)
Forward John Moir
Out to dazzle the Violets.
Nowak All-American
Paul Nowak, center on the Notre Dame varsity for the past three years, was last week named on the all-time All-American college basketball squad selected by the Associated Press.
The squad consisted of ten members picked from as far back as 1919 by a numbei' of the outstanding coaches and basketball authorities in the country.
Forwards include Hank Luisetti of Stanford, Chuck Hyatt formerly of Pittsburgh, Ashworth Thompson formerly of Montana State, and Chuck Carney, an Illinois star in the early twenties.
Forrest di Bernardi formerly of Kansas and Nowak are the centers.
Johnny Wooden and Don White former Purdue stars are two of the
WINTER TOURNEYS TO START MONDAY
•
Last call for all aspiring champions, be they bowlers, cuemen, ping-pongists, or hand-ballers!
The slam-bang competition is ready to begin! From the head office of athletics comes word that all is in readiness for the annual Winter Sports Whirligig to whirl anew over the campus, sweeping the walks and halls of Notre Dame, and jamming tight the galleries of Carroll Rec, Walsh Rec, and the Field House Hand-ball Hippodrome.
John Donnelly, prominent chair-mon of the board of executives, appointed by President Elmer Layden, promises several fancy prizes to be awarded to at least the first two high-rankers in each contest. Among the other members of the executive board are Jim Mulhern, who is in charge of bowling, and Bill Condon, who will supervise the billiard program. Donnelly, for the first time any way, is arranging the details for the four-wall artists and the pingswing masters. “But,” adds Donnelly very desperately, “ if there are as many entrants as we expect, we’ll just have to have more managers on the job.”
Action will get under way Monday night, and a full week is planned for qualifications. Then, for the next three weeks or more the going will be hard and heavy on the would-be champs. For one reason, it is easy to say already, that the impending rivalry will be the best yet among the amateurs of Notre Dame. Ping-pong will make its initial appearance in the tournament, and the cream of the strong-armers are keyed to fire. But the lines are still open for many more enlistments. If you have the slightest suspicion that you are potentially a master-hand at billiards, bowling, handball, or ping-pong, sign up without delay. Details may be found on any of the notices posted over the campus.
So, hew to the line! the hottest, fastest winter competition on anybody’s campus is ready to go!
guards. The other two are Mac Kinsbrunner formerly of St. John’s (New York) and Rollie Williams of Wisconsin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Brushing Up
________________________________/
By Nick La mberto
Society note: Director of Athletics Elmer Layden had some of the nations leading handball players as luncheon guests last Friday evening in the cafeteria. Among the notables present were Joe Platak and Bob Weiler, national doubles champs; Fred Miller, captain of the Notre Dame football team in 1928 and present singles handball champion of Wisconsin; and Claire Ehlers, sixth ranking handball player in the nation.
After the luncheon the handballers gave an exhibition in the courts of the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Platak beat Miller, 21 to 12, in a singles match. In the doubles Weiler and Platak defeated Miller and Ehlers: 21-18, 14-21, 21-20. The last game of the doubles series was a thriller with Miller and Ehlers holding an 18-13 lead at one time only to succumb eventually, 21-20.
Maybe handball at Notre Dame is going bigtime—who knows?
Opinions: Adolph Rupp, Kentucky basketball coach, had this to say about Johnnie Moir when he picked the latter on his all-time All-American basketball team: “Moir is the outstanding forward I have seen in the past 20 years. He is one of the fastest big men in the game today, fine on defense and an uncanny shooter.”
Ciair Bee, Long Island University basketball mentor, picked Paul Nowak as center on his all-time All-American with this comment: “Nowak, star of the present Notre Dame team, is a fine scorer and an ideal pivot man, an excellent passer and very good under the backboards. If for no other reason than his ability to set up the pivot and the resulting play, I should choose him as my center.”
Apology: Phil Walker, Bengal Bout instructor, doesn’t take dancing lessons at Dolly’s dance school, as stated here last week—he “teaches” there. Beg pardon, so sorry.
Squibs and such: The Ohio State Lantern calls their wrestling team “the grunt squad” . . . Bill Watson, Michigan’s star colored athlete, threw the shot 51' 2%" in a recent track meet with Michigan State . . . John Head, Notre Dame senior, once played basketball on the same team as “Chuck” Chuckovits, University of Toledo cage flash—that was back at Cook Academy in Montour Falls, New York . . . Purdue and Illinois are still wrangling over their recent basketball game . . . Stanford and
EIGHTY MEN PREPARE FOR BENGAL PRELIMS FIELD MOST EVENLY MATCHED IN YEARS
Three weeks from tonight the show takes place! What show? The Bengal
Boxing Tournament, of course, which will be an athletic show par excellent. Patrons are being procured, a program is being edited, publicity is being wellhandled, but most important of all is the news that the boxers are rounding
de Landero's Men Seek Revenge on Purdue
The genial seiior of the swords, Pedro de Landero, was his usual affable and urbane self when we accosted him in a corner of the apparatus room immediately after his boys had taken the Lawrence Tech fencers into camp, 12 to 9.
Yes, he was pleased with the showing of the team in general and Captain Zerbst in particular, but his immediate problem was concerned with the stopping of the Purdue boilermakers tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 o’clock. The Irish were set back by the Purdue swordsmen, 15 to 12, in a match at Lafayette two weeks ago and the professor must find a way to add two more points to the 12, thus returning a Notre Dame victory, 14 to 13.
Figuring on the same number of points contributed by his boys in the match two weeks ago, Mr. de Landero must improve his foilsmen for the extra two points, since Purdue’s exceptional strength in the epee division precludes any attempt to garner added points in that field. This may not turn out to be as difficult as one would think, as the previous engagement was the first taste of varsity competition for seven members of the squad. Since then the youngsters have acquired much polish in the Chicago, Ohio State, Detroit, and Lawrence Tech contests. '
Captain Jack Zerbst, Sal Scarlata, and John Gavan, the chief point-getters in the first match, are all set to duplicate. It now remains for Vic Mercado and Pierre de la Vergne to increase their margin in the foils.
Should the lads from Lafayette succumb to the Irish, it will be the third successive victory for the team and four out of six.
Notre Dame are now 1-2 in national basketball rankings . . . Race and Kell promise to make Bengal Bout fans forget all about Connors and Tancredi . . . Looks like the Irish track team is on its way after that little rebuttal down at Indiana last week.
into shape.
Coach Napolitano and his two assistants Walker and Broscoe have the boys beyond the mere conditioning and fundamental stage. Most of the mitt-slingers, are going at least four
Battler Helland
Out to repeat.
or five rounds at every one of the practice sessions which are held thrice each week.
New equipment in the form of gloves, jump-ropes, mouthpieces, and a light punching bag, were the gift of the A. A. and Athletic Director Elmer Layden. These were much needed and therefore greatly appreciated.
Last week, we mentioned that 54 had joined the instruction class. Now the number is seventy-six. This is far in excess of the turnouts of past years and would seem to be a basis for the contention made by the Scholastic that the tournament this year will be the best in history.
The preliminaries will take place on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, March 14, 15, and 16. Regular A.A.U. officials are to be secured this year to act as judges in the prelims as well as the finals.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
By Mark J. Mitchell
There was once a story about John Charles Thomas being refused admission to a performer’s dressing room because the actor was too tired to see all those people. Notre Dame’s track opponents have by this time gotten pretty tired of trying to see John Joseph Francis, not because of his multiple name, but because he runs the middle distances like a couple of sprinters. All of which is not too coherent unless
you realize that Mr.
Francis has won two letters in track here, and now (since last Saturday) holds the all - time Notre Dame record for the indoor half mile. His 1:56.4 against Indiana erased Alex Wilson’s old mark of 1:55.6 and established him as the best half miler Notre Dame has ever had. (For conditions affecting Mr. Francis’ 880 yard dash see “Splinters from the Press Box,” Item 3, page 18, this issue.)
John was born in Iowa. He watched the “tall corn” around Burlington for about ten years. Then he went “city slicker.” And so he eventually got to St.
Ignatius High School
in Chicago. For a long time, St. Ignatius and DePaul Academy had dominated the Catholic High School track situation in the “Windy City.” But when Francis arrived, St. Ignatius dominated it. There was no sharing of honors with tins lanky middle distance man about. Two years consecutively he was Chicago Catholic Champion in the 880 as well as the mile run. St. Ignatius won
the team championship both those years.
Then John came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1933, where all went well until an appendectomy caught up with him the next yeai’ and he was forced to drop out of school. He came back, however, greater than ever, and has since shown that he can “pick ’em up and lay ’em down” with the best of them.
You know, there has been a nasty rumoi- oozing about that Nick has an extraordinary track team this year. We might go on record here to the effect that there is nothing extraordinary about Nick having a good team. Only a bad one would be unusual. However, John Francis went on record as saying that this was the best team Nick has ever had, and that Nick is the best coach in the country. In support of the former statement, he pointed to the number of outstanding individuals as well as the all around team strength. The latter needed no reason except that Nick just knows how to get the best out of a man.
John has had to run against some pretty stiff competition during his years here. Such men as Beetham of Ohio State, Rosenkrantz of Michigan State, and Trutt of Indiana ranked and are still ranking among the best in the country. Nevertheless he has won his share of points in all competition and he feels that despite some opinion to the contrary the Middle West still produces outstanding track material. He should be in a good position to know whereof . he speaks.
A few weeks ago the Scholastic came out with John’s picture captioned “A rhythmic picture in flight.” It was a little flowery, but it comes awfully
BASKETEERS TROUNCE MICHIGAN STATE
•
The Irish of Notre Dame tallied their 16th victory of the season last Monday night by a 48-32 margin when the Michigan State Spartans fell before their second half onslaught.
Notre Dame jumped off to a commanding lead early in the game, but by the time the half ended, Michigan State had almost wiped it out. The half finished with the score 20-18. In the second, half, however, the State attack was quite ineffectual, whereas the Irish offense worked even more smoothly.
The failure of State to score in the second half, and the defeat itself, was due mainly to the Spartan’s inability to score from under* the basket or from short shot positions. Unable to break through the tight Irish defense, the Spartans had to be content with shooting long. The Irish margin of victory would have been even greater if the Michigan netmen hadn’t been unusually adept at this phase of the game. But this offensive play wasn’t enough to overcome the all-around proficiency of the Irish.
Paul Nowak, lanky Irish center, was the high scorer of the evening with twelve points. He was followed in points made by two State men, Center Martin Hutt with eleven points and Guard Howard Kraft with nine points. Johnny Moir tallied four field goals in the short time he played. Early in the second half Moir fell and injured his knee. He didn’t play in the remaining minutes of the game. Tommy Wukovits was also injured, receiving a cut over his left eye, but he did not leave the game.
Coach Keogan substituted freely during the game, using a total of 13 men.
Howard Kraft of Niles, Michigan, guard on the Michigan State team, was presented with a wrist watch between halves of the Michigan State-Notre Dame game by admirers from his home town. The game was Kraft’s last as a member of Michigan State’s varsity basketball team. His former coach in high school, Chet Davidson, made the presentation.
close to a description of the Francis form. One of the smoothest runners we’ve ever seen, he never wastes an ounce of energy. That is, perhaps, in some measure responsible for his success. But all the rhythm in the world wouldn’t win races without fight. Of that, John Francis has — a superabundance.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
TECH FALLS BEFORE FENCERS 12-9
•
The afternoon of Saturday, Feb. 19, witnessed a gripping struggle of swordsplay with Lawrence Tech of Detroit on the home-strip. The epee bouts, last weapon to be fought, swung the final decision to favor the blue and golds to the tune of 12-9.
Lawrence Tech was well represented by Captain William Osis and Michael Fernandez, both triple-threat men; William Bishop and Fortunski in foil, the latter showing his hand in sabre as well; and Gene Jakubowski epee-man. With three victories lashed to their belts, the Irish ’keteers expected to fair in foil and epee, and to clinch the match with an easy win in sabre.
Mercado and Captain Osis of Lawrence Tech opened the tourney—Osis taking it 3-5. De la Vergne retaliated with a 5-2 victory over southpaw Bishop, opening a three-streak gain. Leising—Fernandez, 5-4; Mercado—Bishop, 5-3; de la Vergne— Fernandez, 5-4; finally halted by Osis over Leising 5-4. Mercado then whipped fiery Fernandez to 5-2. The bout between de la Vergne and Osis brought the blade-enthusiasts to their feet amid flashing interchanges of thrusts and pares; their eyes followed the colorful fray of ringing steel up and down the mat to quick impulsive retreats and advances. Captain Osis’ blade finally bent for the decisive point—5-4. The last of the foil bouts was lost to Fortunski by Leising 4-5.
Captain Zerbst of Notre Dame initiated the sabre contest with a 5-2 win over Captain Osis of Lawrence Tech. Fernandez’s reversal of 5-1 over Scarlata gave vent to Gavan’s subdual of Fortunski 5-3, and Jack Zerbst’s tenth successive-conquest of the season in taking Fernandez 5-3. Scarlata’s second loss was to Fot-tunski 3-5. Captain Osis ended the sabre scurvy 5-4 over Gavan. This left the score eight to seven in Irish favor—the outcome of the epee would decide the meet.
It looked bad when Graham’s loss of 1-2 to Osis tied the tally. Fernandez’s defeat by Colgan, 2-0, was offset by Guerin to Jackobowski 2-0. Graham put Notre Dame back in the lead by taking Fernandez 2-1; supplementing this, Colgan saved the day by setting the Irish two points in the lead by beating Jackobowski 2-1. McEnearney, who has recently stepped from foil to epee under Coach de Landero’s guidance, substituted for Guerin to chalk up 12 as Notre Dame’s final score.
Pierre de la Vergne’s colorful bout with Captain Osis was by far the
Great Track Team Defeats Indiana Thinlies
Francis. Clifford. Faymonville, Gibbs. Star
When the Notre Dame indoor track team swamped Indiana by a 55 %-29% score at Bloomington last Saturday afternoon, it proved Coach John P. Nicholson’s own assertion that it was the greatest track team the Irish ever had. Two firsts by Olympic runner Tommy Deckard, and a fluke win in the mile relay were the only victories the Indiana team could get all afternoon.
A tie for third place in the high jump was all that kept the Irish from
Greg Rice
Miler, par excellence.
most outstanding; it put Pierre only one point behind Osis’ high-point of 15 for foils. Jack Zerbst’s consistency again made him high-point man in sabre. Sal Scarlata’s off-day was compensated by Pierre’s first victory over a left-hander, and Charlie Colgan’s flash, which staged a comeback; Colgan previously had one win out of seven. Notre Dame’s success in foils was due to Coach de Landero’s foresight in training his men in how to attack the extended arm— one of Tech’s pet guards.
getting a clean sweep in the field events. Bill Faymonville won the shot put with a toss of 46 feet 9 inches and his fellow behemoths, Joe Beinor and Mike Mandjiak, took care of the other points in this event. John Dean, who continually elected to bye in the high jump so that he could concentrate on the pole vault, finally took one nonchalant leap to break the monotony. It turned out to be the best jump of his life and it earned him a tie for first place at 6 feev. Sophomore Tom O’Reilly showed a great deal of promise when he barely missed clearing six feet in each of his three tries at that height.
Versatile Dan Gibbs and Hal Langton tied for first place and a new meet record of 13 feet in the pole vault, but they failed in their attempts to set a new field house record of 13 feet 7 inches. John Dean satisfied himself with a third place at 12 feet 6 inches and didn’t attempt to go higher.
Bill Clifford came from behind to nose out Allen of Indiana in a :06.3 60-yard dash. Bill Tucker was not far behind in placing third. Captain Bill Mahoney showed his usual good form in winning and Bob Lawrence showed improvement in placing second in the 70 yard high hurdles. Miller of Indiana, the favorite in the 440, lost valuable yards when he tried to pass Hank Halpin on one of the turns, and he could not cut into the two yard lead Pete Sheehan had on him going into the home stretch.
Tommy Deckard turned in the best performance of the afternoon when he set a new fieldhouse record with an evenly-paced 4:12.8 mile. His teammates, Mel Trutt and Jimmy Smith, were not far behind him, while Greg Rice, who is not quite in top shape, stayed with the Indiana trio for three quarters but lost ground rapidly during the final 440 yards. Deckard also won the two mile in the excellent time of 9:27, a new meet record. Rice finished second when his
sprint carried him past team mate Gene Gormley on the final lap.
Johnny Francis climaxed the fine all-round performance of the Blue and Gold when he set a new Notre Dame indoor record of 1:55.4 in the half mile. He took an early lead and ran a very fast first quarter. He fought off Mel Trutt’s challenge at the start of the gun lap and kept putting on the pressure from there on in to win the race by seven yards. Curt Hestor ran a very fine 1:58 half to place third.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX )
By John F. Clifford
TOAST OF NEW YORK
Several years back when Wild Bill De Correvont was trying to make up his mind what grammar school to attend and Notre Dame was still football’s National Champion, basketball “as she is played today” was unknown outside the Middle West. In those days Notre Dame, Indiana, and Purdue were showing the rest of the collegiate basketball world how to make the game fast and furious. Gradually the type of game in vogue in this section of the country was adopted in the East, South, and finally the Far West, with some great teams arising around the Metropolitan section of the East. But it was still a matter of conjecture as to what sections of the USA produced the better teams, since each quintet was fighting for supremacy in its own field wtihout looking for bigger territories to conquer.
Then someone got the bright and lucrative idea to arrange for some really big games in New York, and thereby establish some basis for naming a mythical National Champ. Since basketball went Big Time four years ago, the game has increased in national popularity by leaps and bounds and blase New York town has found that maybe there is something to this Hoosier game after all. Basketball double-headers, bringing together some of the best teams in the country, are the thing today; and among the main attractions at Madison Square Garden has been George Keogan’s Irish quintet and their annual game with NYU. The immortal Knute Rockne gave to Notre Dame a certain magnetism, a spectator appeal that, no matter what sport squad is in action, the lovers of sports flock to see it just because it is a Notre Dame team. •
Keogan first brought his team to New York in 1935 to meet the Violets of NYU. The Fighting Irish lost that game, but lost none of their popularity as a fighting ball club. Some say the Notre Dame five could not fathom the transparent back boards in the Garden that night and as a result lost many points on bad free throws. Anyway, glass back boards were constructed in the Notre Dame gym the following year for use in preparation for the next trip to New York. Since then the Irish have whipped the Violets in their last two encounters before a packed house. The performances of Nowak and Moir in New York have made them unanimous choice for All-America honors for the past two years. NYU wants more than anything else to beat these Irishmen from Notre Dame tonight—but they’ve got a big job on their hands and the Irish are tough.
V
WINNAH—AND STILL CHAMPEEN . . .
“Glen Cunningham wins Baxter Mile of NYAC track meet in 4:08.6, second fastest mile ever run indoors” . . . and Ol’ Pop Time aagin takes a back seat to the world’s greatest second-snitcher. Several seasons have gone by since they first claimed that the Kansas Flier was ready to hang up his spikes for good. But every year Cunningham comes back with added zim and zest to disclaim all reports that he is through. In eight starts this season Glen has nicked seconds off his first performance of the year and appears to relish the “competition” that San Romani and Don Lash are giving him. John Kieran, columnist in the New York TIMES seems to like it too: “It’s true that Cunningham is 28 and he may have to take a wheelchair to keep going. But if so, the chances are that he’ll wheel it around a mile in 4:07 or something like that.”
V
HALF-SPIKED
Here is one of those irrepressible “now-it-can-be-told” stories that come to light after every important sports engagement. The time: afternoon of Feb. 19. The place: Indiana University fieldhouse. And the occasion: the annual indoor track meet between Indiana and Notre Dame. John Francis, ace Irish half-miler was leading the pack around at a vicious pace in the first lap of the 880. Suddenly his rhythmical stride faltered. He quickened his pace as he approached the judges stand and yelled at Nick as he passed, “Nick! My shoe’s coming off!” “Run your head off!” was the encouraging rejoinder. And run he did, pounding down the home stretch, shoe-laces flopping like reins on a run-away horse, for a new all-time Notre Dame record of 1:55.4 and smashing Alex Wilson’s old mark by 1.2 seconds. John was afraid the shoe was going to fly any minute (without his foot in it), so he decided to get home before it happened—which is one way of breaking records.
"JOE" WORRIES OVER RACE AND KELL
By "Joe Jab"
“Our Boy” Joe and “Punch-’em Paul” have been training at a terrific rate during the recent fortnight, and their respective mgrs. thought it would be good for the wrastlers if they were to be given a respite from the training routine for several days. You see, it doesn’t do the boys any good to go stale.
Dear Mark:
The mgrs., “Stoop” for Kell, and “You-Ain’t-Gonna-Rob-Us” Kovalcik for Race, took in the Michigan State basketball game with us the other night and gave us the very latest on their respective wrestlers. I have to laugh because the one mgr. doesn’t know that I’m doing publicity for the other; and here am I doing the press advances for both camps. If these big boys ever find out that I’m playing both of them in the middle I’m liable to be the third man in that ring with both boys working over me.
While the mgrs. and us are in the field house watchin’ an interestin’ sport, these wrestlers of ours are pal-lin’ around Chi with some of the boys. We get a pretty good check on them though, and we know that they are tucked in by 10 every night because we are smart and send another big boy along with them to see that they don’t break trainin’. This feller’s name is Longhi, and it’s a known fact that he won’t let the boys do nothin’ that would hurt their condition.
The two principals of the big match have not been using the same ' methods in their training camps. This is natural because the boys do not use the same technique. Race is the “tank” type of wrestler. I do not mean to infer that he would take a “dive,” bowling over the opponent. “Our Boy” sticks fairly close to the mat, but generally he managers to keep his rival between Race and the canvas.
“Punch ’em Paul” is the aerial artist type; he waltzes around the roped ring awaiting the opportunity to seize his foe with his grappling-hooked hands, then he “cranes” the hapless victim over the head; slapping his catch to the padded floor, Kell pounces his own 238 pounds very definitely upon the writhing figure that is to be his conquest.
Neither boy has been workin’ much on defense because both boys are strictly go-and-get-it men. This will go very well with the pay-people because they like action.
One thing more, Boss, this Race has lots of confidence; he goes about
(Continued on Page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
CAGERS NEAR FINAL TOURNEY ROUNDS
•
With the holiday week-end sending Notre Dame men far and wide, little basketball was played Sunday, as only four of the fourteen games took place. In Group I of the lightweight division the league leading Carroll team was beaten by the Brownsonites 46-30 in the fastest game yet played. This defeat cuts Carroll’s lead and leaves that league wide open. The other games had little effect on the league leaderships.
There is a correction to be made on last week’s report. It was Morrissey that forfeited the game rather than Alumni as stated. This thereby changes the standing by making Alumni joint leaders with Walsh in the lightweight division of Group I. Both teams have perfect records in five games.
The few remaining games for each team can easily upset the standings and in all of the divisions the lead can change as most of the first place teams are to play their runners-up next week. The games not played last Sunday are to be played within the next week as only one more round is to be played before the playoffs early next month.
The results of Feb. 20:
Heavyweight division — Group I: Off-Campus 19, Zahm 17; Cavanaugh 20, St. Ed’s 13. Group II: Sorin beat Badin (forfeit).
Lightweight division — Group I: Brownson 46, Carroll 30. Group II: None played.
Schedule for last round:
Group I: 9:00, Carroll vs. Cavanaugh; 10:40, Brownson vs. St. Ed’s; Off-Campus — bye. Group II: 1:30, Morrissey vs. Badin; Sorin vs. Dillon; 2:30, Walsh vs. Alumni; 2:45, Howard vs. Lyons.
Engineers Hear Expert
There will be a meeting of the Engineers’ Club Thursday evening, March 3, at 8:00 p.m. The speaker of the evening will be Mr. William Trelease of the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation, who will address the club on the subject of “Knock in Gasoline Engines.”
Mr. Trelease will discuss the theory of knocking, explaining both the causes and the remedy. The talk will be illustrated with motion pictures of actual combustion within engine cyl- . inders. In addition to the pictures, Mr. Trelease is bringing a demonstration engine with him to further illustrate the effects of different fuels when used in high compression engines.	•
CARROLL TAKES INTERHALL TRACK TITLE; CAVANAUGH HALL A CLOSE SECOND
In one of the most hotly contested meets seen at Notre Dame in several years the Carroll hall trackmen emerged victorious in the annual Interhall track meet held Wednesday night at the fieldhouse, winning by the closest of margins. The final score of the meet reads Carroll, 20; Cavanaugh, 19; Fresh_______________________________________ man, 17; Brownson, 16; Lyons, 16;
v Howard, 7; Zahm, 7; Badin. 3: and
Camera Club Plans
“The coming meeting of the Camera club will be of outstanding importance,” President Joseph Corcoran enthused in speaking of the meeting to be held on March 4th in the John F .Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The speaker at the meeting will be Mr. Priddy, an outstanding portrait photographer of South Bend. He will address the club on “Portrait Photography.” Mr. Priddy’s many years of experience makes him well qualified to discuss the topic.
March 4th marks the date for final acceptance of all prints for the Dome. All students wishing to submit prints must do so before or on that date. A yearly contest for an intra-scholas-tic picture salon will be inaugurated at this meeting also. All pictures taken by amateur photographers which are connected in a general way with Notre Dame activities will be eligible for the contest. Prizes will be offered for outstanding entries.
A new practice of devoting the last half hour of every meeting to lessons in elementary photography will be inaugurated for the benefit of the membership at this meeting.
It's 'King' Canaley Now
Joe Canale, of the Memphis Club, won the annual Memphis Club Bowling Tournament, held last week at the Columbia Athletic Club. A first-rate threat for the title of champ university bowler in the coming bowling tournament, Canale walked away with the highest individual and series average.
Some time next week, the mighty men of the south are to refight the Civil War, this time with ten pins, as they tangle with Detroit Club. Battle plans were not made public.
Sorin's Mailman
' The recent illness of Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., revealed that Sorin hall has had no student mailman during the last seven years. To Lou Ottmer, senior from West Bend, Wis., falls the honor of taking over Father Farley’s mail distributing routine. Ottmer also holds the distinction of running down and slaying a big black bear.
St. Ed’s, 3.
Strange as it may seem the Soph’s won the meet without scoring a first place in any event, although they did tie for a first place in the mile run, when Schickel of Carroll and Scully of Freshman broke the tape together after a thrilling race. In displaying this rather unusual feat it is believed that the Carroll lads became the first in the history of the Interhall carnivals to win in such a manner.
To Lyons Hall goes credit of pulling probably the biggest upset of the meet. Entering only two men the Soph’s finished in a tie for fourth place with the Brownsonites. Devine of Lyons, by placing first in the high jump, the 65 yd low hurdles and the 60 yd. high hurdles was the high scorer as well as the outstanding performer. Webster formed the other half of the Lyons team; he placed third in the 440 yard dash.
Cavanaugh hall, led by Tracey who won the 880 yard run and the 440 yard run, gave the winners many a scare during the evening’s proceedings as well as Freshman and Brownson. Tracey in winning the 440 and the 880 runs showed real form running the former in :54.1 and being clocked at 2:05.6 in the latter.
Dougherty of Zahm hall gave one of the best exhibitions in the broad jump as has ever been seen in the Interhall meets. He “leaped through the air with the greatest of ease” to the tune of 23 feet. Although files weren’t checked, it was believed that this mark ranks as one of the three highest Interhall jumps.
Plenty of stiff competition was seen in the pole vault. Pfaff of Howard was the winner in this event with Schlayer of Brownson and Smarin-sky of Freshman close on his heels, tieing for second place. The mark reached by Pfaff was 10 ft. 10 in.
The Brownson hall relay team, composed of Saggau, Reese, McDunna and Marquardt, ran rings around all opposition to cop first place in the half mile relay run. The time in this event was 1:30. Carroll and Freshman halls fought it out for second place with the former coming home inches ahead, giving them their necessary three points and victory.
Scully of Freshman after tieing for (Continued on Page 23)
20	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Inside Story of Hunn's "Mowin' 'em Down" Reveals Notre Dame's Own Tin Pan Alley
Many popular songs are written by love - sick romeos or moon - struck mushers. Most of them are written before a romantic curtain that lurks in the background. Sometimes the melody come first; sometimes the lyrical phase gives birth to a tune hit. “Stardust” is a case example; its story makes good copy. You know the story behind Hoagy Carmichael’s money-angel, so listen to another. ■
Once a professor-of English literature serves his morning section a new romantic dish. . . .
“The community is celebrating with a big barn dance; the dance is big and so is the barn. The village’s bashful boy is bodily carried to the event; his buddy, Heni-y, picks a date for him and the V.B.B. is about to make his debut.
“Swing time is unknown, but ‘The Old Gray Bonnet’ is already catching fire with the dancing crowd. The V.B.B. clutches his village belle and rips his way among the dancing cou
ples. The sawing fiddles (or whatever provides the rhythm for barn dances) step up the tempo and the V.B.B., with his V.B., is cutting country capers tall, broad, and beautiful. He is overcome with rippling ecstasy, much like the ‘Big Apple’ crowd at a victory dance. (Think of Casa Loma.)
“When the band hits musical peak, the V.B.B., espying his buddy, Henry, across the barn, roars enthusiastically, ‘Hey, Henry, we’re mowin’ ’em down!’ ”	.
Certain sections of the sophomore class in English Lit verify the story. To most of the boys it is just another laugh, but to one of them it is another song title.
Karl Edward Hunn, Chillicothe’s musical gift to Morrissey Hall capitalizes on the V.B.B.’s cry and writes a swing arrangement for the University’s dance band, the “Modern-airs,” with which he lams the dance gang at the victory dances. He calls his original composition, singularly, “Mowin’ ’Em Down.” It is the sequel
to Karl’s “Barrel House Stomp,” and his “Bull Session.”
Any young college man can write the story behind the “Bull Session.”
The “Modern-airs” is a 13-man band of Notre Dame men of various class years. There is no professional standout among the boys unless it is the aforementioned Mr. Hunn, who beats up the arrangements and doubles and redoubles on piano, bass, sax, and clarinet.
There is no leader of the band (much like the Casa Loma group, it is co-operatively owned); and, believe it or not, I am not the public relations man.
Ours, Inc.
The post office department claims great ability to deliver letters to the correct persons. So when a lettei' came addressed “Ours, Inc., Notre Dame, Ind.” the Brother-postmaster, although somewhat perplexed, proceeded to solve the problem. All the hall carriers were told of the queer address, and a few days later the St. Edward’s mail carrier found “Ours, Inc.” on someone’s door. The letter was delivered.
It seems that roommates Richard Burke and Chester Sadowski were lending so much stationery to hallmates that they decided printed stationery was cheaper. The “Ours, Incorporated” is placed in big type at the top of the page. Besides names and address the telephone number is also listed.
RADIO LOG
Friday: 8:00-8:15, Sports Review; • 8:30-9:00, Little Jamboree.
Sunday 11:00-11:14, St. Mary’s Musical Program.
Monday: 4:30-4:45, Student Sessions; 7:45-8:00, Faculty Talk.
Tuesday, 4:30-4:45, Miniature Theatre.
Wednesday: 4:30-4:45, Journey Without Maps.
Thursday: 4:30-4:45, Periscope; 7:15-7:30, Music of the Nations; 7:45-8:00, Music Hour.
May 19, 1906 — Last Monday marked the inauguration of the Senior Privilege for students in the Collegiate and Law Courses. By the Senior Privilege, members of the graduating classes are permitted to absent themselves from the University from the time of morning prayer, until evening prayer, with the understanding that they are not to miss class, religious exercises or exercises in Washington Hall.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
CAMPUS OPINION
Question: What part of The Scholastic do you read first?
John Ward, Sophomore.
“First I read the sport section, then if there are any interesting articles elsewhere, I read them.”
Leonard Smith: Sophomore.
“I read what I think is the only good part of The Scholastic, that is In the Juggler Vein.”
Al Pacetta: Junior:
“I read “In the Juggler Vein” first. Then I look at the back cover to see if there are any pretty girls in the Chesterfield advertisement.”
Al. Kessing: Badin.
“I usually read the “Music Notes” and the sport section, and then all the news items.”
Leroy Keach: Badin.
“I begin in the front and read all the way through it.”
Tom Minogue: Morrissey Hall.
“I read the sport section first because I am very interested in sports. And then I read “In the Juggler Vein.”
Norvall Hunthausen: Morrissey Hall.
“I read it from beginning to end because I am interested in everything that is in it. I am especially interested in “The Week” and the athletic section.”
Nothing on Italy Today
We were maliciously misinformed. Our assignment was to find a chap named Di Brienza and question him about the Italian Club. His residence was given as Sorin. We looked at the list of inmates — Di Brienza’s name was missing. Closer scrutiny was unrewarded; we questioned Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C., about the hiding place of the gentleman. The Reverend Father was of no great assistance as he told us to look at the bulletin board. That was the last straw. We fumbled down Sorin’s steps muttering to ourselves. With futile hope we scanned Walsh’s billboard. The name of Di Brienza brought joy to our heart, but then hopelessness settled down on us again for opposite his name was written the number 433.
Deceit crept into our minds. We would tell the editor that we could not find Di Brienza. But duty, duty called. We must go onward and onward. Up one flight and our breath was coming in gasps. Two flights and our legs were lead. Three flights and we were hanging to the balustrade. Four flights and only our indomitable will drove us on. Staggering we pulled ourselves to the end of the hall followed by the smirking glances of the hardened inmates. We knocked on the door and fell into the room.
“Di Brienza,” we gasped, “have you got anything on the Italian Club this week?”
“Nothing,” he said, and we collapsed.
New Library Books
Recent additions to the University library include popular books in several fields of literature. Paul R. Byrne, librarian, has announced that these books have been placed in the circulation stacks and are now available to students.
In the dramatic field interesting additions include: Representative One-Act Plays by M. G. Mayorga; Shakespeare’s Plays by M. R. Ridley; Drama and Society in the Age of Ben Jonson by L. C. Knights.
Four up to date books that are related to the present day economic situation are: The Soviets by A. R. Williams; Wage Determination by J. W. J. W. Riegel; Human Needs of Labor by B. S. Rowntree; Unemployment in the Learned Professions by W. M. Kotschuig.
A book that has to do with sociological problems of race relations is: Etiquette of Race Relations by B. W. Doyle. Problems of medical science are the topics discussed in Medical Magic, written by D. Dietz.
A vivid and revealing biography of Mary Shelley is written by R. G. Grylls. S. Cheney’s A World History of Art is also among the new additions.
Other books that complete the latest additions are Think and Live, by B. Morrison; The Catholic Church on the Nebraska Frontier by Sister Aq-uinata Martin; and Assignments in Utopia by E. Lyons.
From the Files 11925)
The statue of the Blessed Virgin, the work of Mr. Giovanni Mili, was brought here in 1880 and rested upon the front porch of the Main Building. The statue, 16 feet high, weighs 4,400 pounds and is made of three-eights inch metal. Despite appearance the crown of the statue, which rises to a height of 176 feet, is' 42 feet lower than the tip of the Church spire.
Des Moines, Iowa—And the laugh was on Ed!
Ed C. Lytton, genial business manager of Drake University and a friend and admirer of the Most Rev. Gerald T. Bergan, bishop of the diocese of Des Moines, had occasion to call the bishop on the phone recently.
“Good morning, Rev. Bergan, this is Ed Lytton out at the world’s leading university,” was Lytton’s-.cheery greeting.
“Oh, hello Ed! When did you move over to Notre Dame?” was the bishop’s ingenious reply.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUNIOR PROM
(Continued from Page 3)__________ Frericks, chairman; Joseph T. God-leski, Frederick J. Digby, Francis E. Cunningham, William E. Carroll, Richard V. McKay, Richard J. Puhi, Robert R. Lamb.
Publicity committee — Francis A. Reppenhagen, chairman; Paul A. Borgman, George J. Neumann, John F. Verhoeven, John G. Shortall, John B. Celia, William H. Waters, Adam J. Wolf.
Program committee — J. Hebron Graham, chairman; Thomas G. Barry, Lucien J. Lacroix, Gerald M. Faller, John J. Dunphy, Herman S. Sheedy.
Favors committee — Walter J. Short, chairman; Robert A. Sheppard, Arthur G. Davis, John P. Mulderig, Richard P. Omhoefer, Philip R. North, "William T. Meyers, Frank J. Gaglione.
Dinner Dance committee — John J. McGovern, chairman; Joseph F. Dray, W. Paul Oakes, Robert J. Kvatsak, James W. Plummer, Mark J. Mitchell, Robert S. Schorsch, Thomas E. Sheehan.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
TOBIN says:
T O B I
N’s
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
IIO North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Warning!
If the Bengal Bouts should keep up with the present rate of increase per year, ten years more would see the necessity of a Madison Square Garden. However, the Notre Dame fieldhouse is of sufficient size to accommodate the normal increase expected this year. So don’t worry too much about getting a seat. All the same, let this serve as warning. “Buy your tickets early, and don’t worry at all.”
ONE-HORSE RACE
(Continued from Page 7)
lyhoo, what do you think of your chances for retaining the Bengal Wrestling Championship against the challenger, Mr. Kell?”
“I’ll kill him,” Mr. Race declared flatly. He nosed over, opened the throttle, and went into a barrell-roll. Phrases flew out. “He’s punchy. . . he’ll go. . . to the tank. . . early. . . know what I hear. . . . about. . . . that guy?. . . He flunked out. . . of English. . . before. . . he went into . . . Phy Ed. . . Imagine. . . that!! . . . getting a broken. . . down. . . English major. . . for me. . . it’s an . . . insult.” He straightened out and made a two point landing on the floor.
“Then you are confident that you will retain your Bengal Championship the night of March 18, Mr. Race?”
“Yeah, sure. Say, wanta see my trapeze act?”
“Wel-1-1?”
“Aw, come on. It’ll only take a second and its a pip.” He unloosened the trapeze which had been drawn up to the wall and climbed aboard. He gathered speed swiftly, then shifted from his sitting position to a hand-
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
stand. The arc lengthened. On each “down-beat” Mr. Race expanded his chest and screamed “Whheeeee.” He became talkative:
“This guy Kell has been pulling a lot of strings. . . Whheee. . . . Even had Layden write me a letter asking me. . . Whheee. . . to go easy. Elmer needs him in. . . Whheee. . . I don’t know what he’ll do against. . . Wheee . . . . Minnesota if he can’t go. . . . Whheee. . . a couple of. . . Whheee . . . rounds with me. . . Wheee. . . .
I left Mr. Race there in between to and fro. He’s probably still swinging —he’s like that.
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 7) vidual interpretations of this descriptive tone-poem from the pen of the ardent Czech nationalist. The score depicts the scenes through which the river Moldau passes—“the woods in which the wild call of the hunter’s horn is heard; the groves where happy peasants celebrate a weddingfeast with dancing and song; the mighty rapids, within whose bounds the revelry of sprites at night is captured; and finally, the great city of Prague, where its channel broadens; then as in a dream, the mighty, sinning stream fades into the distance.”
Overheard on Campus
Dillon: It’s rumored we’re having Cab Calloway for the Prom.
Howard: Oh you’ll like her—goodlooking, nice personality, maybe not a movie star, but a swell kid.
St. Ed’s: I’m not going to the Prom. It’s a case of Capital and Labor—no Capital and I won’t Labor.
Caf: That’s what I call the height of security—his roommate is corrector in the course.
Alumni: He’s so conceited he works crossword puzzles with a fountain pen.
Main: Look at the brim on that hat. What’s coming off—is the University having a rodeo?
English Class: It’s a great work of illiterature.
Walsh: Sorin? It’s just an elaborate barn with four silos attached.
Cavanaugh: Who’s that fellow? He’s a Japanese Zahm man.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
INTERHALL TRACK
(Continued on Page 19)
first place in the mile run came from behind to capture first place in the two mile event winning by only inches from Smith of Cavanaugh, who also placed third in the mile run.
Statistics of the meet follow:
60-yard dash—won by Marquardt (Bro); Sheets (Carroll), second; Dougherty, (Zahm), third. Time, :06.7.
One-mile run—Tie for first place, Schickel (Carroll), and Scully (Fresh); Smith, (Cav.), third. Time 4:59.6.
Shot-put—Won by Costello (Cav.) ; Shirf (Bad.), second; Lopez (Fresh), third. Distance 37 ft. 4 in.
Broad Jump—Won by Dougherty, (Zahm); Webb (Carroll), second; Coen (Carroll), third. Distance 23 ft.
Two mile run — Won by Scully (Fresh); Smith (Cav.), second; McGee (Bro.), third. Time 11:36.2.
880-yard run—Won by Tracey, (Cav.); Clark (Bro.), second; Dillon (Zahm), third. Time 2:05.6.
High Jump—Won by Devine, (Lyons) ; Webb (Carroll), second; Pfaff (Howard), third. Height 6 feet.
65-yard low hurdles—Won by Devine, (Lyons); Johnson (St. Ed’s), second; Webb (Carroll), third. Time, :07.8.
440-yard run—Won by Tracey, (Cav.); McMahan (Fresh.), second; Webster (Lyons), third. Time, :54.1.
60-yard high hurdles—Won by Devine, (Lyons); Webb (Carroll), second; Kort (Fresh), third. Time :08.1.
Pole Vault—Won by Pfaff, (Howard) ; Schlayer (Bro.) and Smarin-sky (Fresh), tied for second. Height 10 ft, 10 in.
Relay—Won by Brownson; Carroll was second, Freshman third. Time, 1:39.
COLLEGE PARADE (Contimied on Page 10)
hopeless as a Scotchman trying to spend his way to prosperity. . . Happy is the mosquito that can pass the screen test. . . Warning to bootleggers: “Jug not, that ye be not jugged.” ... A fellow is a fool to marry, but what else can we poor girls marry?.........That from the Tatler. . . Can you stand another Big Apple joke? . . . The Collegian gives us: “Until recently we always thought of a big apple as teacher bait, but since St. Vitus has become the patron of the American twichtoe, it has become a kind of wormy ball-room fruit that doesn’t grow on trees.”
Brother Willibrord Dies
Funeral services for Brother Willibrord, C.S.C., head of the University of Notre Dame bakeries for a quarter of a century, were held Thursday morning in Sacred Heart Church on the campus.
Brother Willibrord made famous the “Notre Dame bun” which was cherished on the student diet from the beginning of the century until the present dining halls were built in 1927. After that he continued his work on a smaller scale, supplying bread and buns for all religious houses on the campus until forced to retire about two years ago.
Born in Zevenaar, Holland, October 8, 1872, he entered the Congregation of Holy Cross on August 15, 1900, and continued at his old country trade for the rest of his life.
Thousands of Notre Dame alumni who knew the baker by sight were unaware that he was a member of the community as most of his time was spent in the bakeshop where he wore the white uniform of his work rather than the black habit of the religious order.
Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C., superior of the Community House, was celebrant of the funeral Mass.
JOE JAB
(Continued on Page 18)
his work like it was a business; he would rather win than be president. But this “Killer” Kell — he lopes around the ring with a smile pinned from ear to ear; to me he has the typical killer instinct, and he smiles while he’s doing the damage. I shudder.
If we get into this thing any deeper, Boss, we’ll be truly a war correspondent.
Your worried warrior,
“JOE JAB.”
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
---❖--
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
EASTERN TOUR
(Continued from Page H)
rough and aggressive. Both Colgate and N.Y.U. should be “up” for Notre Dame—N.Y.U. after a loss to small but strong Villanova, Colgate after a 3-point loss to Army. But Notre Dame will have to point first for N. Y. U.; so if there is to be an upset, Colgate will then have the best chance to carry it through.
... Zou take no chances on the
SOUTH SHORE LINE
You lay your travel money on a “sure thing” when you go by South Shore Line — it’s a cinch to save you time and money, too. And weather and traffic don’t count as risks ... you’re safe all the way. At the low fares you’re sure to win when you travel by South Shore.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE &
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
The Safe, Fast Dependable Way To Chicago
o
5OUthnsehor[ ■
a p
'Radio Features
Lawrence Tibbett
Andre Kostelanetz
Paul Whiteman
Deems Taylor
Paul Douglas


. . . and when you land on Chesterfields you find the three points of smoking pleasure... all you look for in a cigarette MILDNESS thafs refreshing TASTE that smokers like
AROMA that makes you downright hungry for a smoke.
Youll find MORE PLEASURE in Chesterfields milder better taste
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.