Tills BOOK IS not so
taken from the Library

Tty

? r B *
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
DECEMBER 15 Nineteen Thirty-three
Some happy mug will put your room in a panic. He’ll have you jumping out windows when he asks for fifteen cents.
But you’ll be climbing the walls to get back in when you hear the whole hall bellowing about the Christmas “Juggler.”
Send a “Juggler” instead of a gift or a card. “Esquire” says this is the thing to do.
No N. R. A. Cracks.
Buy one tonight.
\_The JUGGLER'S Business Offices are located at 232 Main Building'}
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At the University
Notre Dame, Indiana
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during' the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns.......
Mitchell C. Tackley...
___Editor-in-Chief .Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN____________________JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors THOMAS J. STRITCH____________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK._____________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.------------------------Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE.____________>
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING----J
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR------------
__________Sports Editors
.HOWARD T. WALDRON
Netvs Staff
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD-----------------------News Editor
THOMAS G. PROGTOR— -----------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ-------------------*___ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL--------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES.______________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY —-------------------Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
December 15, 1933
No. 12
IPSA DUCE NON F ATI GA BAT-'
The Most Reverend Joseph Chartrand, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis, died last week. And in his death Notre Dame lost a priceless friend, a consistent helper, and a most devoted follower.
The Purple prayerbooks . . . the dozens of boys from his free Catholic high school here at college . . . the never ceasing encouragement to daily Communion . . . the constant help of his prayers . . . those are a few of the items in Notre Dame’s debt to Bishop Chartrand.
The Scholastic can add little to a characterization of the man and the bishop. “ He refused an archbishopric which, presumably, was to carry with it a Cardinal’s hat. Appointed some years ago to the See of Cincinnati, he asked the Holy Father to reconsider the appointment, and allow him to remain as confessor to his people. . . .
“Catholic education was with him as much a passion as daily Communion, and it was linked in his mind with charity. His million dollai- high school was free; he sent at least a hundred through college at his own expense; he educated priests for poor dioceses; he fed the poor at his own door until meal tickets became a necessity. ...” (Religious Bulletin, December 11.)
Such was this friend that Notre Dame lost. Notre Dame grieves, naturally, at his death. But it also knows an emotion, something akin to glorying, in the memory of its friendship with Bishop Chratrand—he who did not grow weary.
THE LINNETS
During the course of the past ten or twelve weeks, several letters were received by The Scholastic inquiring after the health and the whereabouts of the Linnets. Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights of this week supplied an answer to those interested questioners. The
December 15, 19 3 3
Linnets are very much alive and, on those three evenings, were very much in evidence.
It is an encouraging sign that a new activity on the campus has been able to attract such enthusiastic support from the student body in the matter of supplying talent. There was never very much doubt but that the talent for such entertainment could be had from student ranks. In past years the difficulty was to provide a leadership that would be sufficiently able to organize the performers into a complete, smooth-running stage production. The founders and directors of the Linnets supplied that need admirably.
The student body should be awakened by the undeniably successful results achieved by this entertainment organization. The virtue of their work lies not only in their own stage shows as such, but in the demonstration of the fact that there is still creative talent at Notre Dame, and still enough executive ability to give vitality to a new form of activity.
The Scholastic extends heartiest congratulations to the Linnets for “Thanks For The Blow”; and at the same time expresses best wishes for the future, and a request that the group will provide us with more pleasant evenings before rhe present school year is out. As a closely related correlary we offer a quiet hope that some other branches of campus activity that need new life, will take inspiration from the Linnets and strike out with a bit of confidence and courage.
SEASON’S GREETINGS
To those of our readers who have read with enjoyment, to those who have read without enjoyment, and even to those who haven’t read at all—though heaven knows how they’ll hear about this—the editors and the staff of The Scholastic extend their heartiest and most sincere wishes for a very merry Christmas and a happy and profitable New Year.
I
0 n e
THE WEEK
To Hold Prom Feb. 9; Miller Is Chairman
By Thomas J. Stritch
Christmas Carol
No doubt the Christmas Juggler will carry all we could say about your arrival home for the holidays, and the subsequent expenditure of days. Most of you know, if you will glance over previous experiences. We know a man in Alumni who usually has cards printed, with the reasons for the failure and the success of the football team, his comments on the coaches, the lineup and schedule for next year, and such. These he passes out to people who want to know the inside dope (and who probably know considerably more than he does to begin with), leaving them to digest theii- contents while he gets in a few words about how well everybody is looking. But personally we’ve always figured that football was better than exclamations over growth, and have discovered a few phrases will take care of all possible contingencies. These we have bound up in pamphlet form, and will vend, if there is a demand.
And for our part we wish you joyeux Noel, with sentiments of esteem.
Football
The task of selecting the all-touch football team is so difficult that we are putting it off until after the holidays. There has been an abundance of material this year, and the many locales over the campus are quite a strain on your correspondent to cover in the space of the three short months the season comprises. Then, too, the different styles of play make a standard of selection very difficult. We feel compelled to eliminate the Morrissey and Alumni fields as too small for big-time ball. And the games of the engineers and freshmen are still in a period of gestation.
The series played All-Saints’ Day revealed some surprising things, too. Some of the boys thought we weren’t there, and laid down, but we were watching all right from the window in the handball courts.
There is an ugly rumor going around that six bits will assure anybody a place on this team. We wish to deny this libellous report emphatically. But come around and we’ll talk it over anyhow.
Peanuts
Crowe, Leo, and Newbold, James, are entering upon their last year of basketball for Notre Dame, Our Mother. Everybody knows about the
Crowe and Newbold saga — there’s always been at least one of each around, and they’ve always been good at basketball, good shots, and above all, cool heads.
But even while Crowe, guard, and Newbold, guard, are bunging balls in baskets, Crowe & Newbold, merchants, are carrying on a brisk business with peanuts, apples, Eskimo Pies and such. This is their second year in the business, and the fourth straight fiscal year of Crowe & Newbold. The present owners inherited the business from Norb Crowe, who was basketball captain in ’31-’32 and Bill Newbold, who played forward right along with him.
The business in its fourth successful year is pretty well organized now. The name is well known, and the brothers have been fortunate in securing the sendees of a master salesman in the person of Oppo, who has wowed ’em for years. He is employed by Crowe & Newbold on a commission basis, and attributes his success to his keen intuitive understanding of mob psychology. When one of the players is shooting a free throw he hawks his wares in a large stage whisper.
There are no immediate inheritors of the business, but in the course of time, of course, there will be. The idea of no Crowes & Newbolds is preposterous. Other brother- acts there have been—this year there are three Waldrons and four Huiskings —but none so closely associated as the Crowes and the Newbolds. For them to have flourished, both in basketball and peanuts, during the careers of the class of ’34, is a source of satisfaction to us all.
Agony Note
Joe Hanratty, of Corby Hall, wants to find a good home for his goldfish, Huxley, for the holidays. Joe is loath to leave the beast alone, for it (Huxley, not Ham-atty) is a bit barmy, and persists in knocking its head against the bowl. Any man with a drop of milk of human kindness in his heart will take Joe’s little charge, and be assured of amusement as well.
Bread on Waters
Two years ago, when a certain senior was living in Morrissey Hall, a freshman borrowed his College Book of Verse “for a short while.” He returned it the other day to the shocked senior, who had never ex-
Thomas LaLonde, president of the Junior class, this week announced the selection of William Miller as chairman of the Junioi- Prom. This
William Miller Chairman of 193 Prom.
annual Junior class function will be held at the Palais Royale, Friday, February 9. A dinner dance will also be given on the following day at a place yet to be chosen.
The committees who will work in conjunction with the chairman in making arrangements for the weekend are to be published immediately after Christmas vacation. Although negotiations with orchestras are under way, the one selected will not be contracted for until early in January. The price for the Prom tickets will be the same as in former years, §5.00 per couple.
To Sell Anti-Tuberculosis
Seals On Campus Tomorrow
The annual Christmas seal drive of the Anti-Tuberculosis League will reach Notre Dame tomorrow evening. The representatives of the organization will be in the lobby of the dining hall before and after the evening meal. Campus response has always been generous in past years.
Spanish Club
The meeting of the Spanish Club, scheduled for Thursday evening, December 7, was postponed because of conflicting campus activities. The next meeting will be held shortly after the Christmas holidays.
pected to see it again, in a Politics class.
It was not until the following day that the senior discovered that he had left it in the classroom, and it was nowhere to be found.
T w o
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, December 15
Benediction, Brownson chapel, 5:15 pan.; Symphony orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p.m.; basketball, Notre Dame vs. Albion, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.; Chicago club meeting, Walsh basement, 7:45 p.m.
Saturday, December 16	'
Benediction, Brownson chapel, 5:15; p.m.; Movie, Washington hall, 6:35 and 8:15, “Deluge,” and “Three Little Pigs.”
Sunday, December 17
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and residents in St. Edward’s and Lyons halls, 7:30 p.m.; University Theater presentation, “Taming of the Shrew,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m., with symphony orchestra.
Monday, December 18
Benediction, Brownson chapel, 5:15 p.m.; University theater presentation, “Taming of the Shrew,” Washington hall, 8:00 pan., with symphony orchestra.
Tuesday, December 19
Close of Christmas Novena, Brownson chapel, 5:15 pan.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, December 20
Christmas vacation begins, at 4:05 pan.
Dr. Grossmann Speaks To The A. S. S. T. Members
Dr. M. A. Grossmann, research engineer of the Illinois Steel Co., addressed the regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society for Steel Treaters in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering, Monday evening.
The subject of Dr. Grossmann’s address was “Stainless Steel.” In the introduction of the topic of discussion, Dr. Grossmann gave a brief resume of the earlier misconception of the conditions that caused some steels to be non-corrosive.
The speaker explained the research work which was begun prior to the World War, involving the introduction of chromium and nickel to the iron. The culmination of this research work came with production of the present “Chromium-Nickel 18-8 Steel” which has been accepted by the housewife together with the industrial user as the most non-corros-sive steel attainable. Dr. Grossmann conducted his address by enumerating the multiplicity of uses for stainless steel.
NAME ELMER LAYDEN GRID COACH, ATHLETIC DIRECTOR
Crowds---
Statistics released this week by the Department of Sports Publicity of the University show that total attendance for the nine 1933 Notre Dame football games amounted to 358,000 as compared to the 1932 attendance figure of 441,000 for the same number of games. Director Joseph Petritz points out the significant fact that the highest attendance figure was polled at the Army game in New York, an 80,000 total, but the Southern California contest drew only 32,000 to the local stadium this year in comparison with the great crowd of 105,000 that saw the game in California last year.
Attendance by size for both seasons is as follows: Army, 1933, 80,000; 1932, 60,000; Navy, ’33, 52,000; ’32, 70,000; Carnegie Tech, ’33, 54,000; ’32, 30,000; Northwestern, ’33, 40,000; ’32, 42,000; Purdue, ’33, 35,000; So. California, ’33, 32,000, ’32, 105,000; Pittsburgh, ’33, 25,000; ’32, 60,000; Indiana, ’33, 20,000; Kansas, ’33, 20,000; ’32, 24,000. All of these teams with the exception of Indiana and Kansas, have been scheduled for next year.
LAW NOTES
Luther M. (Mike) Schwigert, graduate of the College of Law in the class of ’27, has been made Assistant to the United States District Attorney for the northern district of Indiana. Mr. Schwigert is now practicing law in Hammond, Indiana.
Law Notice
All students who wish to begin their work in the College of Law next semester are requested to see the Dean of the College of Law at once. Dean Konop is in his office from 10:00 a. m. to noon and from 1:15 p. m. to 2:05 p. m. every day.
CONTENTS
Editorials ................... 1
“The Week” ................... 2
Jzinior Prom.................. 2
Elmer Layden ................. 3
Bishop Chartrand Dies ........ 4
University Theater............ 5
“Man About the Campus” ....... 8
Interhall Debate Finals ...... 9
“College Parade” ............ 10
Indoor Track ................ 11
Basketball Games ............ 11
Northwestern Game ........... 12
Football Captain ............ 13
“Introducing” ............... 14
“Splinters From the Press-Box”.... 15
“On Down The Line”........... 16
WILL REPORT FEB. 1
Elmer Layden, ’25, last Saturday morning signed a contract to become head football coach and Athletic Director at Notre Dame. At the same time, announcement was made by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who completed negotiations with Layden, of the official acceptance of the resignations of Heartly W. Anderson and Jesse C. Harper, head grid coach and Director' of Athletics respectively.
Layden will take over his new duties here on February 1st. The new Notre Dame athletic head has just completed his seventh season as head football coach at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, where his teams, especially the 1933 eleven, compiled excellent records.
Boland, Assistant Coach
So far only one assistant coach has been named to the new grid staff. Joe Boland, monogram winner at tackle with the teams of 1924 and 1925, and more recently coach at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, has been signed as an assitant to Layden.
In accepting the resignations of Coach Anderson and Athletic Director Harper, the University paid the following tribute to the two men:
“In accepting these resignations, the University wishes to pay high tribute to the men who, three years ago, on the tragic death of Knute Rockne, assumed the very difficult task of carrying on his work.
“For Mr. Harper it meant perfecting a new organization. Knute Rockne was a keen business man, but his methods were unique. Mr. Harper installed a new and very efficient system for the direction of athletics at Notre Dame. This is deeply appreciated by the University, and will be by Mr. Harper’s successor.
“Mr. Anderson threw his whole soul into the work he inherited from his old teacher, and he brought to it not only a great knowledge of football but a remarkable devotion and loyalty as well. No alumnus of the University was ever more honest and sincere.
“It is with great regret that Notre Dame bids farewell to these two men whose splendid service has carried her over a critical period in an extracurricular activity which commands much public attention.”
Three
December 15, 1933
NOTRE DAME MOURNS THE DEATH OF BISHOP JOSEPH CHARTRAND
Linnet Show Is Hit;
2,000 People Attend
WAS LONG A TRUE FRIEND
By John Walker
■ Notre Dame lost a real friend when the Most Reverend Joseph Chartrand, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis, died last Friday night on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. As Father O’Hara said in his Religious Bulletin, “He loved Notre Dame. Thirty-seven from his high school are here now; many more have graduated. He used to ask for every one of them personally. He gave us his ‘purple prayer books’ and was a mainstay of the pamphlet rack; he even suggested topics for the Religious Bulletin. And though he never saw a football game, he had an apostolic interest in Notre Dame’s fortune on the gridiron. Encouragement —encouragement was his watchword. He, more than anyone else, encouraged Notre Dame to daily Communion.”
Funeral Wednesday
Funeral services were held Wednesday in the Cathedral at Indianapolis. He was buried in a crypt beneath the cathedral beside the body of Bishop Francis Silas Chatard who preceded him as head of the diocese. Bishop Chartrand died at the age of sixty-three after forty-one years in the priesthood. The Most Reverend Elmer J. Ritter, Bishop of Hippus and auxiliary bishop of Indianapolis, administered the last rites.
Monday morning a Solemn Mass was sung in the Sacred Heart Church at 6:25 for Bishop Chartrand. The celebrant was the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., was deacon, and the Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C., was sub-reacon.
Ordained In 1892
In 1892 Bishop Chartrand was ordained a priest having received special dispensation from Pope Leo XIII as he was then only twenty-two years old. He was then appointed assistant rector of the cathedral at Indianapolis and later rector. In 1910 he was consecrated titular bishop of Flavia and coadjutor bishop of Indianapolis. On March 17, 1928 he was appointed assitant to the pontifical throne with the rank of Roman count. In bestowing this honor Pope Pius XI said that it was given because “of his labors in promoting devotion to the Blessed Sacrament and fostering Catholic higher education.
Irish Club---
The Irish Club held its last meeting before the Christmas holidays on Wednesday evening in Carroll Rec. The particular phase of Irish history discussed tins week was the Danish Invasion of Ireland in the tenth century. This discussion was led by James Reilly who presented a paper dealing with these invasions and their effect on the history of Ireland.
This period is commonly thought to be one of retrogression in Irish history but the opposite is true. The Irish learned many things from the Vikings, mostly material facts, while the Irish gave to these northern warriors their rich culture and learning. Ireland learned the art of navigation from the Norse and in turn imparted to the rude sailors the treasures of Greek and Roman literature.
Reilly also pointed to the fact that the Irish at the battle of Clontarf in 1014 broke the power of the Danes who were threatening to subjugate the entire continent of Europe. Thisbattle is listed by many scholars as one of the decisive in history for had Ireland failed all European civilization would have been considerably retarded.
President O’Connor presented plans for an informal dinner to be held on St. Patrick’s Day. More definite plans will be formulated aftei' the Christmas holidays. The meeting closed with the acceptance of several new members. As membership is limited all those men who are interested should apply immediately to President O’Connor.
Cracow Club is Active
Prior to Holiday Season
The Cracow Club under President Korzeneski held a brief business meeting Wednesday evening, during which their recent South Bend radio broadcast was reviewed and discussed.
Another very important meeting is to be held next Monday evening, Dec. 18, at 7:30. Plans for a banquet to be held shortly after Christmas vacation will be discussed and general plans will be laid for the coming year.
All members are urged to make it a point to attend this meeting.
La Raza Mass
The La Raza Club had a Mass said in Sorin chapel at 6:25 on Tuesday morning in honor of the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
Two thousand people saw the Notre Dame Linnets hit high G in the snappiest and most entertaining show ever presented on the campus Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights of this week. The able cast of 100 singers, dancers, comedians, and musicians representing a wealth of student talent held three capacity houses for two and a half hours of grand entertainment.
Comment among the faculty members and students was most favorable following the close of the show, and many of the snappy musical selections, both original and popular, are now being whistled about the campus. The Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Professor’ Charles Phillips, and Professor Paul I. Fenlon told the Linnets that the production was the finest ever shown in Washington Hall.
John Henry, master of ceremonies, scored a hit with the audiences with his clever introductions and original skits. He was assisted by Comedian Bill Lewis, whose impersonations made an indelible impression, Ed Cunningham, and Vic Astone.
Tompkins Opens Show
The Collegians furnished the mu? sic for the entire production. After the .playing of “Avalon” the orchestra needed no further display of its high caliber of music. Soloist Justin Tompkins opened the show with his rendition of the theme song, “Thanks for The Blow” assisted by the chorus. His gesticulations were especially significant to those about the campus who know Father Farley, to whom the show was dedicated.
Highlights of the performance include the singing of “Love Songs of the Nile” by Tompkins, Flynn, and Fromm; tap dancers Dasso, Jassoy, and Byrne; the singing of “Underneath a Harlem Moon” by Frank Barbush in Cab Calloway style; and George Wenz in “I Wanna' Ring Bells,” the song of the rectors.
Especially popular was the “In the Dark” act where pianists Bott and Keough assisted by Byrne as tap dancers, and Wenz, Demer, and Ross as the singing trio, presented a clevei’ sketch in phosphorus paint.
The Linnet Glee Club is to be praised for their singing of several inspiring selections. George Menard was perfect in his Paree act presented a-la-Chevalier. James Marohn received encores every evening for his accordion solo.- Vince Gorman was a hit in “Thanks For The Blow” written by Charlie Morris and Tom Bott.
The grand finale was, perhaps, the (Continued on Page 10)
TheScholastic
Four
i
Holiday ‘Juggler’ To Be Out This Evening
THEATER SEASON TO OPEN WITH ‘THE SHREW SUNDAY AND MONDAY
By John Conley
Containing moi’e jokes, gags, puns, and cartoons than the proverbial toy sack of St. Nicholas, the Christmas issue of the Juggler will he released upon the premises early this evening. From the black and silver cover to the finis, a holiday atmosphere prevails with the solution to the “what’s wrong with the football situation,” printed for student disposal in their own locality, tucked here and there throughout the magazine.
A soap sculpture by Melchione, the most promising of the freshmen recruits to the artists’ ranks, introduces, via the frontispiece, what is to follow. From the pen of this youngartist also flows a major portion of the superlative art work which characterizes the whole issue.
Many Good Contributions
In the realm of the contributors, Bud “Charmanel” McNichols heads the list with plenty of good verse and lively shoi*t prose. Several pieces of Iris work have been reprinted in their entirety in the last issues of the Yale Record. Gene Healy, George Rocheleau, Bob Cahill, and Frank Crawford are others who furnish lively copy for the reader’s interest, while Clyde Craine continues his unending witticisms.
The House Plan system in vogue among the leading eastern colleges and universities is taken for a sleigh ride by “Sylvester” McManus, better known as the originator of editorial excuses. In another sketch he turns poet and produces a masterpiece suitable for framing.
Satire takes its turn at bat with a double spread debunking the local dances, a subject which has been pleading for treatment for some time. “Our Bitter Wur-uld” is the title of an excellent bit of prose from a literary standpoint, submitted by “Thaumaus Mac” Burchell, who also relieves the theatre page from the drab monotony and radicalism which heretofore has characterized it.
John Sharpe shows himself as an up and coming poet, and Eddie O’Brien competes with the leaders for the caption of a columnist who is in the know. Bill Dreux continues to maintain his place in the sun with the angle of a foreign correspondent “Astray in the Loop.”
The Glassboro (N.J.) Board of Education has decreed that any teacher who smokes shall promptly be without a job.
December 15, 19 3 3
Dances---
The following campus clubs have announced plans for formal Christmas dances, to be sponsored jointly with the Notre Dame alumni clubs of the respective localities. The date of the dance is given after each club’s name:
Chicago Club—Dec. 28
Place: Stevens Hotel.
Music: Jimmy Garrigans’ orchestra.
Price: $3.00.
Metropolitan Club--Dec. 28
Place: Waldorf-Astoria hotel. Music: Harold Stern’s orchestra. Price: $5.00.
Boston Club—Dec. 28
Place: Hotel Westminster.
Music: Billy Dooley’s orchestra.
Price: $3.00.
Indianapolis Club—Dec. 26
Place: Indianapolis Athletic Club.
Music: Jimmy Garrigan’s orchestra.
Price: $5.00.
Cleveland Club—Dec. 26
Place: The Allerton Hotel.
Music: Husk O’Hare’s orchestra.
Price: $3.50.
Philadelphia Club—Dec. 27
Place: Brookline Country Club.
Music: Willard Alexander’s orchestra.
Price: $2.00.
Akron Club—Dec. 29
Place: Mayflower Hotel.
Music: Denny Thompson’s orchestra.
Price: $3.50.
Rochester Club—Dec. 26
Place: Sagamore Hotel.
Music: Doc Perkins’ orchestra.
Price: $2.50.
Vermont Club—Dec. 27
Place: Ethan Allen Club, Burlington.
Music: Shep Harriss’ orchestra.
Price: $3.00.
“Big Bad Wolf”
A second showing of the “Three Little Pigs” will be held in Washington Hall tomorrow night in connection with the movie “Deluge.”
BLISH, STRITCH IN ROLES
By Joseph Bucci
“The Taming of the Shrew,” one of the most popular of the Shakespearian comedies, will be presented by the University Theatre players, Sunday and Monday evenings, December 17, 18, at 8:15 o’clock, in Washington Hall.
The players, a large percentage of whom are veterans of last , year’s group, have been rehearsing steadily for the past six weeks, under the direction of Professor Frank W. Kelly, of the Department of Speech. If the rehearsals are significant of the showing nights, the production is assured a complete success.
Capable Actors In Cast
Such actors as Eugene Blish, James Boyle, Thomas Stritch, and Joseph McCabe, well known in campus theatrical circles, together with the excellent performances rendered by Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, offer an evening of fine entertainment.
The play consists of the induction followed by three divisions: the wooing, the wedding, and the taming. In the induction, a lord, portrayed by James Boyle, amuses himself by richly clothing a drunken tinker, John Sweeney, and takes him to his luxurious home. Upon the tinker’s awakening, the lord and his servants provide amusement for him by having the following play presented, to prevent him from lapsing again into his supposed melancholy:	,
The comedy: Petruchio, a young heir of Verona, decides to many, and asks his father’s old friend, Signor Baptista of Padue, for the hand of his daughter, Katherine. Katherine is beautiful, but has a temper that has driven away many a suitor. “I’ll marry him, but I will tame him,” says Katherine, while Petruchio fells her, “I am he.that’s bom to tame you, Kate.” Thus follows the wooing, the wedding, and the taming, all of which present probably the most comical adventures yet seen in Washington Hall.
University Theatre A Success
Petruchio is played by Eugene Blish; Baptista by Thomas Stritch, and Joseph McCabe takes the part of Grumio. Miss F. Theresa Chisholm ably portrays Katherine. These leading actors are assisted by a score of minor characters, among whom are Irwin Goldman, Robert Ward, Joseph Alten, and Andrew Hufnagle.
The University Theatre has sue-, cessfully fulfilled its aim from year to year in giving the student body
(Continued on Page 8)
Fiv e
Alumni Association
Promotes Program
Announcing a plan whereby the Alumni Association is to aid Notre Dame and Catholic Education, the December Alumnus was published this week. The plan involves a program in which the Alumni are to act under the direction of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, through the Alumni Office and the present Alumni secretary. By giving talks to students in high schools and to their parents, it is hoped “to interest the highest type of student from both Catholic and non-Catholic schools. It should interest them in such numbers that the University can exercise a selective method, which will improve the general academic standards of the University student without sacrificing the broad character of the student body as it has always existed.”
The Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., contributes an article on “Campus Memories.” This article treats of the uncrowned campus laureates of different colleges and especially of Professor Arthur J. Stace of Notre Dame. In 1885 a volume containing poems gathered out of bound volumes of the Scholastic by Professor Joseph A. Lyons, a faculty associate of his, was published.
Continuing his series of editorials on the various groups of the Alumni Association, Secretary Armstrong writes “The Young Alumnus.” Another article in the Alumnus is on Dr. S. J. Maher, who received the Laetare Medal in 1932. Dr. Maher is nearing the completion of experiments on a method of cure for tuberculosis.
There are also stories on the death of Edward N. Hurley, LL.D., ’18, and on the appointment of Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, as head of the University Lay Trustees. Petritz again contributes his “Athletics” department and Jim Kearns handles “Campus” page. Paul Doyle, of the Scholastic staff, has an article printed in this issue on the Catholic Peace Conference held at Notre Dame.
Librarian Gives Talk
Mr. Paul Byrne, University Librarian, addressed the Indiana Library Association at their annual meeting held last Friday in Indianapolis. The subject of his talk was "Proportioning the Book Budget.”
Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., University Archivist, was present at the same time in Indianapolis where he attended the meetings of the Indiana Historical Society and the Society of Indiana Pioneers.
Six
News of the Week
By George Leyes
December ‘Alumnus’
Issued This Week
The first problem of the new congress meeting after the holidays will be the question of liquor taxes. A revolt already appears among the members of the Finance and Ways and Means committees who charge that the National Distillery interests control 90% of the supply, and are demanding unreasonable prices for liquor. The $2.60 a gallon tax already proposed has been declared excessive by the committees. It would seem that the question of revenue should be subordinated to the determination to smash the bootleggers who still hold between 40,000,000 and 50,000,000 gallons of illicit liquor, which will be sold for a low price before it is thrown down the gutter.
The Federal Alcohol Administration has decided to permit the importation of five and one-half million galons of liquor within the next four months. This concession is made with the understanding that the foreign countries reciprocate with a trade agrement to buy agricultural products from the United States.
The 18 months of warfare between the Bolivians and the Paraguayans over several thousand acres of uninhabitable land was given a terrific blow this week after the Paraguayan troops captured 13,000 Bolivian officers and men. This quarrel has been raging since July, 1932, when the two smal countries, Bolivia with a population of 3,000,000 and Paraguay with 800,000, poured men into the fray at such a rate that the casualties are said to have exceeded 100,000 in the low, hot fetid country.
Story of Galileo’s Life
Given At Science Meet
Frederick F. Follmer, junior in the College of Science, presented a paper entitled “The Highlights of Galileo Galilei’s Life” at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, Monday evening of this week in Room 104 of Science Hall.
“The glamorous history of the life and labors of Galileo,” the speaker stated, “is filled with an overwhelming interest not only for the scientist and philosopher, but also for the ordinary layman and general reader.”
Galileo’s studies in the fields of plane geometry, his work on the hydrostatic balance, and his antipathy towards Aristotelian philosophy, as well as his invention of the telescope which led up to his astronomical discoveries were treated in the paper.	'
A program of contacts to establish	,
closer relations between the Univer-	■ ,
sity of Notre Dame and the many	[
high schools from which the Univer-	!|
sity receives students has been an-	!
nounced by the Alumni Association	!:
in the December issue of the Notre	|	’
Dame Alumnus.	i	i
The program, which will involve	|:
the local Alumni Clubs and practical-	!
ly all of the student and faculty agen-	;
cies on the campus, will be under the direction of the Alumni Office in the Main Building, and the present Alumni Secretary, James E. Armstrong, ’25.
The personnel of the Alumni Office, which has consisted of the Secretary and one assistant, Miss Mary Cass,	।
has been increased by the addition of	j
William R. Dooley, ’26, Kewanee, III.,	>
former editor of the Scholastic and member of the University Glee Club. Mr. Dooley has had considerable experience in promotional work since his graduation and will assist in both the contact program and the general alumni program, including the editing of the Alumnus. Miss Teresa Caveny, who has been identified with	»
the University in the general offices,	.
has also become a member of the staff of the new department.
The new work was undertaken by the Alumni Association to meet a growing demand from parents of prospective students and from high schools for information and advice concerning the University. The Alumni Office, working particularly with the offices of the Registrar and the Director of Studies, will deal largely with co-ordinating the sources of contacts and information already available.	'
Details of the program will be announced as they are developed. The work is already well under way and a definite and full program is expected to be perfected by the first of the year.
Armstrong Is Speaker At Lay Faculty Banquet
The usual monthly banquet of the Lay Faculty Club was held last night, with Mr. Robert Riordan as chairman. He introduced the speaker of the evening, Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni secretary, whose talk was entitled “More Golden Fleece	.
For Your Sheepskins.” Professor	I
David Campbell, of the Department	1
of English, will speak at the January	i
banquet, and Professor William Roe-	j
mer, of the Department of Philoso-	;
phy, will speak at the February banquet.
The Scholastic
N.D. Loses Debate To Michigan University
Notre Dame lost its first decision debate of the current season to a negative team from Michigan University last Tuesday night. This debate, held at 8 p. m. in the Engineering Building auditorium before a large crowd, was judged by Prof. W. P. Sanford, University of. Illinois, and was on the question, “Resolved: that an amendment making permanent the powers of the president as of July 1st, 1933 should be adopted.”
Speakers for both teams in their speaking order were; for Notre Dame affirmative: Thomas Proctor, Robert Schmelzle and William Kirby; for Michigan’s negative, Abe Zweddling, Harry Running, and Victor Rabinowitz. Proctor, Schmelzle. and Kirby, in presenting the affirmative side of the proposition showed the need of a permanent remedy for existing economic conditions, the practibility of the New Deal, and pointed out that, these powers would be sufficiently checked to prevent abuses of them in the future. The negative, on the other hand declared that the New Deal is only experimental and therefore its permanency is not justified as yet, gave facts to show that in many cases the powers are not working, and concluded by pointing out that a weak president in the future could very easily abuse certain or all of these powers which President F. D. Roosevelt now has.
These issues were carried through the rebuttals on both sides, and the array of figures necessary to prove certain contentions increased as the arguments progressed. In giving his decision Prof. Sanford said that for speaking ability both sides were equal but that the negative issues of “experimental legislation” and “possible dangers in the future” were not met sufficiently by the affirmative! Kirby and Rabinowitz, with their quickthinking, clever quips, and rapid-fire delivery, were oustanding in the debate.
Prof. Francis O’Malley of Notre Dame, was chairman for the evening.
Bernadette Soubirous Is Canonized By Holy Father
Bernadette Soubirous, the little French peasant girl whose visions of the Virgin were responsible for the foundation of the famous Grotto of Lourdes, was canonized Dec. 8, in St. Peter’s, Rome, by Pope Pius XI, before an estimated crowd of 60,000.
Special trains brought pilgrims from France and Spain to the scene of the ceremony, which was a culmination of twenty-five years of ef-
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The Knights of Columbus Formal will be held either Jan. 12, or Jan. 20, 1934. Frank W. Honerkamp, Corby hall, has been appointed general chairman of the dance by Grand Knight Sexton. The difficulty about the exact date will be settled early next week, as soon as the orchestra is decided upon.
^The committees appointed are: tickets, co-chairmen Flannery and Lannon; Corby, Collins; St. Edward, Wolfe; Sorin, -McLaughlin; Walsh, Helwig; Badin, Cavender; Howard, Quinlan; Morrissey, Donovan; Lyons, Hammer; Dillon, Schmidt; Alumni, Brown; Freshman, Foley; Carroll, Lannon; Brownson, Flannery; Off-Campus, O’Neil.'1 'Publicity, chairman Phaneuf; Holland McNally, White. Decorations, Chairman, Maffei; Cusack, O’Connor, Bowes. Program, Chairman Sullivan; Stringer, Rocca, Rogers. Music, Chairman Wenz; S. Costa, Glanzner, Kaufman. Patrons, Chairmen Clark and Korzeneski; Roach, Dulin. Floor, Chairmen, Kle-feker; Capitell, Philbin, Quirk. Door, Chairmen Coyle and Brooks; Nachtwey, George Murphy, ZinnJ
The K. of C. Formal has always been ranked as one of the five recognized dances of the school year. Its success in the past has been due, in the main, to the hard work put in by the committee members, and to the support of the student body outside the council. It is felt that this year need be no exception. The support of the members of the council should be considered by them as a matter of duty, inasmuch as this dance is the largest single event in the council’s program every year. The support of the student body we leave to the committees to rally.
fort to have Bernadette’s miraculous visions formally acknowledged by the Church. She was beatiled in 1923.
Bernadette Soubirous, daughter of a poor peasant family, was only 14, in 1858, when she first saw a vision of the Virgin. Thereafter, Mary appeared to' her seventeen times, and instructed her to build a chapel on the spot. The news spread that wonderful cures had taken place at Lourdes, and thousands of people flocked to the grotto. Napoleon III ordered a church to be erected, and Pope Leo XIII authorized a special Mass to be said. The grotto quickly became the most famous retreat in the world, and it is said that more than 4,000 cures have been effected in the first fifty years of its existence.
Wranglers Discuss Russian Recognition
“Recognition of Russia and. its Results” was the topic presented by Justin Hannen, sophomore Wrangler and enlarged by the rest of the society at the regular meeting Tuesday night in the Law Building. Hannen gave the subject for discussion and talked about it briefly before turning it over to the other members for consideration.
In the opinion of the club, recognition of Soviet Russia by the United States will be helpful to international trade and may serve to lower some of the tariff barriers throughout the civilized world, but on the grounds of comparison between the morals and principles of the two peoples, this nation will only be injured by recognition and contact with the Russian race. It was also pointed out that no government recognized by the United States in past generations has been successful for long; in most cases the United States itself did a turn-about-face and helped to hasten that same nation’s downfall.
A brief discussion of the Lemmer Trophy Debate League was led by A. L. Korzeneski.
Preliminary Try outs. For Rifle Team To Be Held
The southern room of the boat house on St. Joseph’s lake has been equipped and cleaned up for the indoor range of the Rifle Club. Preliminary try-outs for the rifle team will take place in the near future, the exact date to be announced in a bulletin. The try-outs are for the team that will represent the University in the meet with the South Bend Rifle and Pistol Club.
The Club is making arrangements to join the National Rifle Association, which, among other advantages, will allow the members of the club to buy all guns and ammunition at cost. The government also allots a cei-tain amount of ammunition to affiliated clubs of this organization. Plans have been made to have shoots with other collegiate rifle teams, by Postal Telegraph competition, as well as trips to nearby colleges. Faculty members are eligible for the club and for competition with other clubs that are not strictly collegiate.
During- the cleaning up of the boat house several museum pieces came to light in the shape of old bullets. One type found was last used at Custer’s “last stand” at The Little Big Horn. The bullet was used in old Civil War rifles of the muzzle-loading type that had been remodeled as breech loading rifles.
December 15, 19 3 3
Seven
Pettengill Speaks To Commerce Men
“Gold” was the subject of an address delivered by Representative Samuel B. Pettengill to approximately 300 Commerce students yesterday afternoon in the auditorium of the Law building. Congressman Pettengill, who is recognized as one of the most serious students of monetary problems in Congress, addressed the students in banking and finance upon the invitation of Professor Alren E. Davis, of the College of Commerce.
The ideas presented by the Third District congressman wei'e in defense of the monetary policy of the administration. Mr. Pettengill said in part: “A great deal of the confusion exists as to what is ‘sound money.’ No one wants ‘unsound money.’ The proponents of managed currency claim that it is actually more sound than gold. On the other hand, the old school bankers and economists assert that the statutory gold dollar is the only ‘sound’ money.
“This dispute grows out of a difference in attitude as to whether gold fluctuates in value,” the speaker continued. “Because it is used as a yardstick of the values of all goods and services, gold contributes to the total dislocation of the price level, which we know as boom times and hard times.”
Here Representative Pettengill pointed out that the advocates of managed currency, terming the gold dollar the “rubber” dollar because of its fluctuation, are advocates of soundness, stability, and honesty. Whether a dollar more sound and more stable than the gold one can be introduced is a controversial matter; its desirability is unquestionable.
The outstanding point of the Congressman’s talk was that the administration must take care to control the value of the dollar in order to remove it from destructive disturbance.
“THE SHREW”
(Continued from Page 5)
first class dramatic entertainment, which at the same time serves the purposes of education. In the case of the present play, large numbers in the audience will be given, perhaps, their first opportunity of seeing a Shakespearian comedy, since most people usually think of Shakespeare in terms of “Hamlet” or “Macbeth,” and imagine him as always tragic.
Musical selections during the evening will be offered by the University Symphony orchestra, directed by Professor Richard E. Seidel.
Eight
&
X? 'about the camPus
bewildered by
Baby Blue
Which is the most of Vincent John Reishman, of Charleston, West Va., and Walsh Hall. He’s little and blonde, with all the charm that makes women want to mother him. He has batted around for four years ■with no diminution of energy, one of the jollier souls in the class of ’34 —- rather 34.5, for the Reishman scion stabbed at engineering before he chased f rom that shadow o f dreadful night over to the McCarthy side. He’s in-genous, and slightly everything when he
gets to thinking about it, which he seldom does. Few social events go ungraced by his presence; few gatherings of the faithful miss his glib tenor comment on all subjects and his gleeful wit. He is very meticulous in matters of dress, favoring baby blue for all garments. He’s a love of a boy.
Red
He worships freely, but too promiscuously, across the way, in Ironton and in Charleston. Sometimes his maze of amours lead to embarrassing situations. He is tolerably familiar with all the social vices, and is very, very nice to everybody. But really, there’s little red in him.
Purple
He’s on the Blue Circle, and has always been amicably on the fringe of politics. Is a boon companion and roommate of the astute public servant, George Shields. Spends a good portion of his time lining up orchestras for dances. Ted Weems is his favorite band, and once he moved heaven and earth to get him for something oi" other. They said he would come for $1,000. “Just the services of the men, not the instruments too” wired back Reishman.
Black
Best-built man in Walsh Hall, he says. In his conversation he figures largely as a wrestler, as a terrifying complex on the State Capitol at Charleston, which friends maintain looks like a birdhouse. Is a signally poor hand at rummy, and will play touch football with the larger boys. With practically no preparation at all he can construct the tallest stor-
Prof. O’Grady Talks At Bookmen Meeting
The Bookmen held their weekly meeting last Monday evening with President Murphy presiding. Following a brief business session, in which two additions to the Club library were announced, a talk was delivered by Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, of the De- . partment of Philosophy. Dr. O’Grady mentioned several of his likes and dislikes regarding literature. The lecture was not limited to any particular phase or age of literature, but rather it was a critical survey of better writing through the ages.
Dr. O’Grady stated that every A.B. man, if not every college man, should be able to quote at least two hundred lines of Shakespeare. This is the nucleus of a knowledge of English literature. The question of cheap reprints of famous books was mentioned. Dr. O’Grady quoted Huxley as saying that this is a possible cause of the shunning of good ■writing. If books were more expensive there would be more interest in them and, paradoxically enough, greater sales. The fact that books are so easily obtainable usually leads to a disregarding of them.
A practical theory for a liberal education was forwarded by the speaker during the course of his talk. He suggested that every young man with such an aim might construct a rough map of the world in which he would place the outstanding men of each country in all branches of learning. By finding out something definite about each one, and by reading-some of their works, he would acquire a fairly comprehensive outline of world thought.
Prof. Hoyer Re-elected To South Bend Fund Board
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, was reelected to membership on the board of directors of the South Bend Community Fund, at the annual meeting of donors, last week. This will mark the fourth year Mr. Hoyer has been so honored.
The Community Fund raises the budgets for sixteen social and charitable agencies in South Bend through an annual drive in which Mr. Hoyer has been an active worker for a number of years.
Villagers* Tribute
The Notre Dame Villagers had a Mass said on Wednesday morning at 7:15 in the Dillon Hall chapel for the repose of fhe soul of Joseph Mason’s mother.
ies you ever heard . . . but you can see that he is a thoroughly amiable gentleman.
The Scholastic
Varsity Debaters Meet Minnesota
Gilson Lectures Attract
Many Students Last Week
Sorin Wins Interhall Debate Championship
Following the Michigan debate on Tuesday night, W. J. Coyne, varsity debate coach, sent another affirmative team to argue against the University of Minnesota in the auditorium of the Engineering Building, Wednesday afternoon. The regular season proposition was argued in a non-decision contest, “Resolved: that an amendment to the Constitution making permanent the powers of the President should be adopted.”
William Kirby made his second 1933 home appearance on the platform as third speaker, with Franklyn Hochreiter, and Hugh Fitzgerald, as first and second speakers respectively. These three argued the need of a permanent change in the past relationship of government to economic structure, showed that the New Deal is working, that the President can best handle these powers, and that in the future Presidents can be checked if they attempt to misuse the powers given them. •
The Minnesota negative, Harold Levauder, Charles Evans, and Burnell Koolish, on tour with their coach, Franklyn Kaower, contended that the present New Deal is only experimental legislation, that the President is not the real representative of the people, that increased Presidential power as a permanent thing would make for unstable government, and that Presidents in the future might easily misuse the power.
Both sides came to issue on the advisability of leaving the powers in Congress to be granted the President when necessary, as the negative argued, or having the powers in the hands of the President with certain checks by Congress, as the affirmative maintained.
Bendix Official Is Guest Speaker at Engineer’s Club
The Engineer’s Club held its fourth regular meeting of the year on Tuesday evening, December 12, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The principal speaker for the evening was Mr. Paine, Assistant Chief Engineer of the Bendix Corporation.
Mr. Paine’s topic was “Vacuum Power.” He showed that out of twenty-five cubic feet of vacuum created every minute by the cylinders of an ordinary six-cylinder motor, approximately one-third can be used to operate vacuum devices. These devices, numbering about twenty-seven, contribute to greater driving comfort as they eliminate the use of the clutch, open windows, and, in some cases, can even raise the hood of the car.
Professor Etienne Gilson, eminent Catholic philosopher and member of the faculty at the Sorbonne university in Paris, spoke before large audiences at his two lectures here Thursday and Friday night, Dec. 7 and 8.
“The Primacy of Theology and the Unity of Christendom” was the title of Professor Gilson’s first lecture, delivered in the auditorium of the Engineering building. He emphasized at the beginning that philosophy cannot be wholly separated from theology. After tracing briefly the politico-religious views of the early Greeks and Jews, Professor Gilson brought out that the coming of Christ marked a change in the idea of “local” religion to the idea of the universal religion. With this as a starting point, the French philosopher traced the history of the idea of the unity of Christendom.
“The Disruption of Christendom and Its Future,” the second lecture topic, continued the previous night’s chain of thought. The setback that the idea of a universal society received from the reformation was explained by Professor Gilson. The philosophies of the leaders of thought, both Scholastic and non-Scholastic, from Averroes to Comte, were outlined during the lecture. Professor Gilson explained why the Catholic church is the logical basis of the universal society that philosophers have been so long seeking. The conclusion reached by the speaker at the end of the historical summary of the two lectures was that a universal society cannot be based on reason or philosophy alone, but must have a basis in faith, in theology.
“Over the Top” Drive For Old Clothes in Final Week
The St. Vincent De Paul Society held its weekly meeting Wednesday-night in the basement of Walsh Hall. The Society expressed thanks for the splendid cooperation of the student body in selling tickets for the Linnet show, and for aiding such a worthy cause.
Although small signs have been set up in all the halls on the campus, large placards will be erected to call the attention of the students to the “closing-in” week of the “Over-the-Top” drive for old clothes.
The final list of collectors for each of the halls has been completed. Bob Ducey and Jim McHugh have been assigned the job in Freshman Hall. After the holidays, statistics will be compiled concerning the distribution of the old clothes which will take place directly before the members leave for their vacation.
Weeks of study and preparation have gone by, speeches and refutation have become history, the Lem-mer Trophy Debate League of 1933 is over, and Sorin Hall is the victor. The negative team representing Sorin Hall, coached by John Hayes, Wrangler member, defeated Morrissey Hall’s affirmative team, coached by Gene Blish, in the final debate of the league held at St. Mary’s College Wednesday night. By virtue of this win, Sorin takes the large, silver trophy7, held by Howard Hall, into its own keeping for the coming year.
John Hess, John Locher,-and John O’Connor, speaking for Sorin against Morrissey on the question, “Resolved: that an amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July7 1st, 1933, should be adopted,” attacked the proposition on the grounds that necessary legislation has and can be adopted without • making the present powers of the President permanent, that the New Deal has not proved itself sufficiently as yet, and that there is a possibility that some weak President in the future may exploit these powers.
“Leave the legislation in the hands of Congress,” they contended, “and give the powers to the President when an emergency arises.”- Clifford Brown, Tom Hines, and Gene Malloy, arguing for Morrissey, the winner of Group II, contended that there is a need for a New Deal, that the powers are working and do work most successfully7 if administered by the President, and that there are adequate checks on the Executive to prevent misuse of the powers.
According to these cases, as pointed out by the Reverend W. A. Bolger, C.S.C., judge of the debate, the negative admitted practically all the affirmative case, but maintained that there was no real need to make the powers permanent since they are serving adequately in a temporary7 way. Following the decision of the judge, an audience was asked for and resulted in favor of the negative.
Following the decision, Arthur Sandusky, president of the Wranglers, sponsors of the interhail debate league, and chairman of the evening, presented the trophy7 to John Hayes, who in turn gave the prize to his team. Sandusky extended his appreciation to St. Mary’s for its hospitality, to all students who participated in the interhall league, to all judges and coaches, and to A. L. Korzeneski, who was chairman of the interhall league. “We have had a very successful interhall debate season,” said Korzeneski, “it has been a lot of work, but I’m sorry to see it end.”
December 15, 19 3 3
Nine
HERE TODAY
GONE TOMORROW!
And you can’t borrow one unless you ’re lucky!
THOUSANDS of men are still trying to borrow a copy of the last issue of Esquire—the magazine for men only. Those who were fortunate enough to buy one, did so the morning it came out. By noon most of the men’s stores and newsstands were frantically reordering and, though we printed over forty thousand additional copies, that wasn’t enough.
Anyway, the second issue of the first and only general magazine for men is out today. And if you were one of those who got left at the post in the scramble for copies of the first issue (or even if you weren’t) this is to offer fair warning that the first issue of Esquire gave only a sort of budding notion of what this second issue is like.
Ernest Hemingway, John Dos Passes, Gilbert Seldes, Morley Callaghan, Montague Glass, George Ade, Robert Buckner, Bobby Jones—all back!
But, in addition, (slow down, big names ahead) we’ve included Emil Ludwig, Paul Morand, Louis Golding, Westbrook Pegler, Irvin S. Cobb, Dwight Fiske, Alexandre Millerand, Andre Maurois, Owen Johnson, Thomas Purke, Jack Dempsey, Louis Joseph Vance, and—well, this could go on forever—or at least for 160 large and lively pages of the most varied entertainment a man ever picked up between two covers—and couldn’t lay down.
There is actually the wordage-total of two popular novels in this one issue. There are over forty pages in color. There are full page cartoons galore. There are full-color pages of men’s clothes that are men’s clothes—not “fashions.” (We mean, you can wear them.)
As for the ladies, we have just one word of comfort. Esquire makes a swell Christmas gift for any man. With this issue it becomesamonthly—50centsacopy,5dollarsforayear’ssubscription. Esquire Publishing Company, Palmolive Building, Chicago, Ill.
|_ ITOI? THE magazine LjiJK^U Iruj FOR MEN
On Sale at All the Better Men’s Shops, Department Stores and Newsstands Ten
Morrissey Debaters Win Over Lyonites
In the finals of Group II of the Lemmer Trophy Debate League last Sunday night, Morrissey’s affirmative trio, coached by Gene Blish, won a decision over Lyon’s negative, coached by Edwin Holman. By virtue of this victory, Morrissey earned the right to enter the final debate between the winner of each league held at St. Mary’s College Wednesday night.
Prof. F. O’Malley acted as critic judge for this final Group II debate held in the Law Building. He criticized the affirmative speakers, Clifford Brown, Tom Hines, and Gene Malloy, and the negative team, John Pre'itice, William Prendergast, and Matthew Leary on the grounds of argumentation, case, and delivery. The judge pointed out that the affirmative presented more facts, were more logical and theorized less than the negative. Gene Malloy and John Prentice were called best speakers.
The question debated was that concerning the permanency of the president’s powers. The affirmative upheld the need, the practicability, and the constitutionality of the proposition, while the negative attacked the need, the practicability, and showed the possibility of weak, destructive presidents in the future. A. L. Kor-zeneski was debate chairman.
LINNET SHOW
(Continued from Page 4)
most colorful act in the entire production. “Marching Along Together” and the theme song were sung by the cast, the curtain falling just as a N.D. monogram was lowered.
The show was given for the benefit of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. At the time The Scholastic went to press it was impossible to ascertain how much was realized by the Linnets. The production staff and cast labored for five weeks on the show and deserve much credit for the fine product turned out. They were ably directed by the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C.
Several names of students who took part in the production of “Thanks For The Blow,” omitted inadvertently from the program, are submitted by the Linnets. They are Mart Hendele, Joe Washko, Jerry Mclntee, ushers, John Ley, Jack Flannigan, John Conley, Charles Karnasiewicz, Tom Murphy, make-up; Richard Hyde, Chorus II, and Frank. . Hochreiter, and Charles O’Connor, ushers.
To describe the show as a whole and to give the deserved credit to the staff of technicians, stage hands, and managers would employ an unlimited number of superlatives.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Thiiilies To Compete In Three Dual Meets
KEOGANITES TO FACE SEVEN OPPONENTS IN NEXT MONTH
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The net result of the Big Ten meeting held in Chicago last Friday and Saturday was the tentative scheduling of three dual meets for the Irish track squad. Coach John P. Nicholson represented Notre Dame at this convention.
In addition to the three dual meets arranged, the Irish will appear in the Butler Relays at Indianapolis, the Armour Relays on the Midway in Chicago, and the Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet in the local field house. Dates of the various meets are not available at the present time. The card, as it is composed at present, is awaiting the approval of the Athletic Board of Control. Action will not be taken upon it until after Christmas vacation.
Illini To Run Here
Marquette, Illinois, and Ohio State have agreed to meet the Blue and Gold thinlies in indoor competition. The Big Ten squads will appear here while the Irish will meet the Hilltoppers in Milwaukee. Last year the indoor schedule included four dual meets and appearances in the Butler and Armour Relays.
The oldest track rivalry in the Middle West features Illinois and Notre Dame. These two schools have meL on twenty occasions. In this span of years the Ilini have registered 18 victories to two for Notre Dame. The Irish wins occurred in consecutive years, 1930 and 1931. Last year the state crew triumphed, 55% to 39%.
Remember That Relay?
Ohio State will provide the competition in the other dual meet to be held in the Notre Dame field house. Last year the Buckeyes appeared here in what proved to be one of the most thrilling meets of that campaign. With only the relay to go and State leading by five points, the Irish won the relay when Lewis, running second in the stick race for the Buckeyes, dropped the baton. The Blue and Gold quartet capitalized on the break to win the race and tie up the final score, 52 to 52.
Marquette, the final of the three teams to be met in dual meets, scored a 54 to 32 victory last year at Milwaukee. The Hilltoppers will act as host to the Irish again this year.
(Continued on Page 13)
December 15, 19 3 3
Skating —
An enthusiastic crowd of over 100 skaters filled the faculty lounge of the dining hall last Wednesday to form a skating club and to formulate plans for inter-mur-hockey. The meeting was sponsored by Fathers Cunningham and Keller and by Jim Dunnigan who was later elected president of the club. Lou Reville was made secretary and Alaman vice-president.
The purpose of the club is to promote speed and figure skating at Notre Dame. Instruction will be given to beginners and a series of races will be staged as soon as the lakes are ready for use. This program marks a revival in skating interest which has languished somewhat during the past few years.
The group also named a committee of which Hargrove was amde chairman, to form an intra-mural hockey league composed of four teams each representing four halls. The grouping suggested was: Freshman, St. Edward’s, Brownson, Carroll; Alumni, Dillon, Off-Campus; Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Badin; Lyons, Morrissey, Howard.
A hockey rink will be erected on one of the lakes to take care of this competition. A varsity hockey team was suggested at the meeting but lack of facilities make this impossible at the present time. The proposed auditorium in South Bend would enable a varsity team to play games with outside groups but since this building will not be erected until next year at the earliest the matter was not considered seriously at the meeting.
Notre Dame has not been represented by a Hockey team since 1926 but previous teams have made successful records in the rink. The team of 1922 won the Western championship by defeating many of the Big Ten teams and several eastern clubs, including Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh.
Albion Game Tonight
Notre Dame’s basketball team will be seeking its fifteenth straight victory when it meets the Albion College quintet in the gymnasium at 8 o’clock tonight. Albion boasts a strong team this year and will come to Notre Dame determined to break the Irish winning streak.
PURDUE HERE DEC. 19
By Howard T. Waldron
’Twas the night before Christmas and the shadowy outline of desolate buildings bulked up from the snow-covered campus of Notre Dame. All was silent and still. Even the wind had died and not even the proverbial mouse moved on the deserted grounds. Far off from the quiet halls, the lights from one lone building cast a sheeny glare on the frost-coated surface below. Only the gymnasium was alive with the noise and laughter usually found at the school. Hard at work, the members of the Irish basketball team were practicing and sweating to continue their long winning streak. These boys had sacrificed the cheer of Christmas Eve around the family fireside in order that the basketball destiny of Notre Dame might be continued along the hard trail that leads to victory.
The Boilermakers Are Tough
The first two stops of the Irish basketball machine will be on the home switch. The first of these should be a tune-up for the stiffer jumps ahead when they must roll at top speed to emerge with a win. Last year Albion college, of Albion, Michigan, was the opener of the Irish season but this year they grace the fourth place on the list. Coach R. R. “Bud” Dougherty usually turns out a tricky, fast team that goes like a whirlwind during the first half but which balks in the second part from a shortage of replacements. Last year Notre Dame steam-rollered them through the efforts of Joe Voegele, who equaled their score with his 20 points, and won 41-20.
If the Irish beat Purdue on Dec. 19, this day will go down as a more than eventful day in Notre Dame basketball history for it will be their first win over the Boilermakers in eight tries. Notre Dame’s long winning streaks seem to extend only from one Purdue game to the other. Each time they assemble a sizable string of wins, the Boilermakers derail the express and they must start back again from scratch. Year in and year out, Ward Lambert turns out a team that rates high in the (Continued on Pasre 16)
Eleven
CAGERS WHIP PURPLE, 28 TO 24
FOR 13TH CONSECUTIVE VICTORY
Interhall Quintets To Organize In Jan.
OFFICIALS CALL 28 FOULS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
In a game marked by speed and marred by fouls Notre Dame ran its string of consecutive basketball victories to 13 last Saturday. Northwestern succumbed to the Irish attack in the local gym, 28 to 24. The outcome was in doubt until Captain Ed Krause sank a shot from the side with two minutes of play remaining.
Twenty-eight fouls were called by officials, Kearns and Lane. Ed Manske and Fisher were chased early in the second half with four personals. Joe Voegele was removed later in the fray for the same reason.
Wildcats Lead At Half
The Irish jumped into a 6 to 0 lead during the first ten minutes of play with Marty Peters scoring the first basket five minutes after the opening whistle. The Wildcats broke into the scoring column with the first period half over. Nelson Culver started the Purple on a scoring spree that netted 11 points and sent them away nursing an 11 to 10 lead at half time.
His bucket was followed by short shots by Ireland and Peters to put the Irish ahead, 10 to 2. Culver repeated and Fisher and Pendergast netted three points via the free throw line. Manske followed with a long arch shot that fell true to the mark. Kopecky recovered a loose ball in mid court and dribbled in to give the Purple an 11 to 10 advantage.
Irish Take Lead
Baskets by Voegele, Crowe, and Ireland during the first five minutes of the second half put the Irish well in front, 16 to 11. Manske and Fisher were removed with four fouls chalked up against them, and Ford and O’Kane converted their shots from the foul circle to increase the Notre Dame lead, 18 to 11.
With eight minutes remaining Rosenfeld sunk the first Wildcat field goal of the second period. Ford and Voegele retaliated with short shots after Moeller had also found the hoop to' pull Northwestern within three points of the lead.
Baskets by Pendergast, of the much-shooting Pendergasts, and Culver a few moments later left the Keoganites nursing a 25 to 22 lead with two minutes to go. A free throw by Leo Crowe and a one-hand shot by Krause from the side made the final result a certainty. It was Krause’s first goal of the year.
Fencing----
The boxing room of the gym resounded all this week with the clash of steel and cries of “en garde” as the fencing team practiced actual combat in preparation for its coming bouts. The progress which the team has made since early autumn is amazing but continual practice is essential to keep the team in condition.
The success of this year’s team depend largely on the showing of David Ryan, one of the outstanding fencers in the group. Several underclassmen are being developed for future years since Ryan and others will graduate this year. Among these is Kehoe who shows a great deal of ability in saber and duelling sword play.
The dates of several coming bouts have been definitely settled during the past week. The match with Ohio State will be played Feb. 16, and the triangular bout with Illinois and Washington University is planned for Feb. 24.
Since most fencers are right handed and left handed players are very few, ‘the latter are considered to be of great advantage to a team. Several left-handed candidates for the Notre Dame team are being trained for future bouts.
Peters, Ireland, and Ford were outstanding for Notre Dame with Leo Crowe playing a fine defensive game. Nelson Culver, co-captain of the Wildcats and high point man for the evening, was the outstanding man in the Purple ranks.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (28) Peters, If 			FG 	 2	FT FTA PF Pts.			
		1	5	2	5
Voegele, rf, c 		..... 2	1	4	4	5
Krause,, c (C) 			 1	3	4	1	5
Ireland, 1g 		..... 2	0	0	2	• 4
- Crowe, rg 				 1..	1	1	0	3
Alberts, If 			 0	0	0	0	0
.—O’Kane, If 			..... 0	1	3	0	1
Mettler, If 			..... 1	0	0	2	2
Jordan, If 			..... 0	0	0	0	0
- Ford, rf 		..... 1	1	1	2	3
Totals 		.....10	8	18	13	28
Northwestern (24) Rosenfeld, If, 1g 		FG .... 1	FT FTA PF Pts.			
		1	1	1	3
Kopecky, rf, 'c 		.... 1	1	2	1	3
Fisher, c 		.... 0	2	5	4	2
Culver, 1g (C) 		.... 3	1	3	9	7
Manske, rg 		.... 1	0	0	4	2
Pendergast, If 		.... 2	1	2	1	5
Moeller, rg, c 		.... 1	0	3	2	2
	—	—	—	—	■ — ■
Totals 		.... 9	6	16	15	24
Referee—Kearns.	Umpire—Lane.				
The interhall basketball league will get under way immediately following the Christmas holidays. From all indications Off-Campus, last year’s senior champions, will have a strong team on the hardwood again this season. It is expected that St. Edward’s, winner of the junior division last season, will again have a winning combination.
Several of last year’s net snipers in the interhall teams intend to get in shape for the coming season by playing with high school and alumni teams during the vacation. Others will probably play with amateur teams in church and high school gyms, while still others will try and get their basket eye in shape by tossing the leather through baskets fastened on the back of bams and garages.
For the benefit of the freshmen the interhall basketball league is divided into two divisions: the juniors and the seniors. Of these there are two groups, namely groups one and two, the same as in the past football league. The seniors or heavyweights will play their games on the varsity floor, while the lightweights will confine their talents to the little gym.
Notre Dame Gridders Named on Skibo All-opponent Team
Don Elser and Kitty Gorman were recently selected on Carnegie Tech’s All-Opponent team. Elser was also named among a select group of four as Carnegie’s most respected opponents. The other members of this honored quartet were John Wiethe, Xavier’s quarterback, Paul Pardon-ner, Purdue’s quarterback, and Duane Purvis, Purdue’s halfback.
Other Notre Dame men who were mentioned were Hugh Devore, who was named on the second team, and Nick Lukats and Wayne Millner, both of whom received honorable mention. The sportsmanship of Nick Lukats was also praised by the Skibos.
The BARBER SHOP will be OPEN on FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY and TUESDAY evenings until 8 o’clock
We wish all a Happy Christmas
Twelve
The Scholastic
Keoganites Defeat Ball State, 43 to 22
ELECT DOM VAIRO’34 GRID CAPTAIN;
DEVORE, GORMAN NAMED FOR 1933
Notre Dame’s basketball team defeated Ball State Teachers College in a one sided game in the local gymnasium last Wednesday night by the score of 43-22. It was the fourteenth straight victory for the Keoganites.
Ball State never had a chance against the superior play of the Irish team. Their offense was paralyzed by the guarding of the Keoganites while the Irish ran through their defense almost at will. Notre Dame scored 17 points before Ball State was able to score once. The score of 29 to 4 at the half gives a fairly accurate picture of the relative strength of the two teams.
Keogan Uses Reserves
Coach Keogan used his reserves during the entire second period; It was not until the Irish varsity had been removed from the fray that the Cardinals were able to show any appreciable results in the scoring column. Eighteen of Ball State’s 22 points were registered in the second half against the Irish reserves.
Notre Dame’s offense which lacked polish in its first two games functioned almost perfectly against Ball State. Time and time again the Irish guard plays, with Leo Crowe and George Ireland doing the scoring, caught the Cardinals completely flatfooted. The pass work of the Keoganites, though ragged in spots, was a great improvement over that shown in the Kalamazoo and Northwestern games.
Krause Leads Scorers
Outstanding for the Irish were Captain Ed Krause, Leo Crowe and George Ireland. Krause took the high scoring honors with two field goals and seven free throws for a total of 11 points. Crowe, who failed to score against Kalamazoo or Northwestern, helped himself to four field goals and a free throw. George Ireland, who is rapidly developing into a fine guard, collected nine points and played a fine defensive game. Icer-man, Cardinal guard, was the best man on the floor for Ball State.
The score:
Notre Daome (43)	FG	FT FTA PF Pts.
Voegele, If, c 			0	2	2	6
Ford, If 		..... 1	0	0	12
Alberts, If 		.... 0	112	1
Jordan, rf, c 		2	2	2	16
Mettler, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Hopkins, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Krause, c 				2	7	10	2	11
Ireland, 1g 			.... 3	0	0	2	6
Newbold, 1g 		.... 1	0	0	0	2
Wade, 1g 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Crowe, rg 		..... 4	110	9
Allen, rg 				 0	0	0	0	0
O’Neil, rg 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 		.....16	11	16	10	43
GRID LEADER
Dominic Vairo To lead 19 3 i Irish.
INDOOR TRACK
(Continued from Page 11)
Notre Dame’s track teams are at a disadvantage from the outset when they run against Marquette in Milwaukee. The Wisconsin school has a board track and the local runners, being accustomed to a dirt course and spiked shoes, have to start from scratch when they take to the road to encounter Marquette.
Clyde Roberts has returned to the saddle once again after a short layoff. This dependable halfmiler suddenly discovered an ailment in his leg during the cross country season. Upon examination it was discovered that a small bone in his leg was about to give way. After a thorough rest Roberts is once again preparing for the coming season. Nicholson has been rounding the men into shape slowly. He plans to shoot the works after Christmas vacation.
Ball State (22)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts-.
F. Henry, If 			 1	0	1	1	2
Todd, If 				 1	0	0	0	2
Shuck, rf 			 1	0	2	0	2
T. Henry, rf 			 0	2	4	1	2
Anson, rf 			 0	2	2	1	2
Hesher, c 			 0	1	1	3	1
Wilson, c 			1	2	2	3	4
Icerman, 1g 			 2	0	0	2	4
King, rg 			 1	1	1	2	3
Jamson. rg 			 0	0	0	0	0
		—	—	—	—
Totals 				 7	s	14	13	22
29 MEN WIN MONOGRAMS
At the annual Football Monogram banquet, held last week in the University dining hall, Dominic Vairo was elected captain of the 1934 Irish eleven. Left end Vairo comes from Calumet, Mich., the town which gave “Hunk” Anderson and George Gipp to Notre Dame. The election marked the return to the custom of electing a captain for the year which had been abandoned during the 1933 season for the practice of the appointment of a captain for each game and the selection of an honorary captain after the season had been completed.
Hugh Devore and Tom Gorman were chosen as co-captains for the 1933 season and thus become the first Notre Dame co-captains since the days of Tom Heardon and Red Edwards.
Ray Brancheau was awarded the Paul Gilbert Most Valuable Player trophy for his outstanding blocking throughout the season.
Coach “Hunk” Anderson acted as toastmaster and introduced Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., who spoke a few words on loyalty. Jesse Harper, Ike Voedisch, Marchy Schwartz, Nordy Hoffman, Tom Conley and George Keogan also addressed the guests.
Anderson called upon 26 players and three managers, who had won their monograms, to give short speeches. Those awarded monograms include:
Ends—Hugh Devore, Wayne Millner, Dominic Vairo, Irwin Davis, and Marty Peters.
Tackles—Ed Krause, John Michuta and Tom Roach.
Guards—Harry Wunsch, Jim Leonard, Rocco Schiralli, and Joe Pivarnik.
Center—Tom Gorman and Fred Solari.
Quarterbacks — Ray Bonar, Tony Mazziotti, and Frank Gaul.
Halfbacks — Nick Lukats, Ray Brancheau, Andy Pilney, Johnny Young, John Tobin, and Frank La-borne.
Fullbacks—Steve Banas, Don Elser, and Fred Carideo.
Gorman On WGN
Tom “Kitty” Gorman, honorary cocaptain of the 1933 Notre Dame football team, spoke over radio station WGN last Sunday afternoon between halves of the Chicago Bears-Green Bay professional grid game.
Announcer Bob Elson interviewed Gorman, questioning him especially on the details of Notre Dame’s 13-12 victory over Army. Gorman: “My greatest thrill was running for a touchdown against Indiana after intercepting a pass.” (1931).
December 15, 19 3 3
Thirteen
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Ed Krause, the captain of Notre Dame’s basketball team, has gained unusual distinction in the athletic field. He gained All-American recognition in both basketball and football during his first year of competition. The Mid-Week Pictorial picked him on its All-American football team and Les Gage picked him on his AllAmerican basketball team during Ed’s sophomore year in college.
A light instantly with
Match King
“The match of a million lights"
5Qc and
Has no wick — no wheels nor springs — nothing to get out of order. Choice of handsome chromium plated or' bakelite cases.
With his tall rangy physique, Krause fits admirably well into Coach Keogan’s pivotal offense. In this plan of attack, the guards pass the ball back and forth in front of the opposing defense and finally work it to Ed. The “Moose” usually succeeds in flipping a shot into the basket over the
head of the opposing guard. Ed is also a very valuable man to have under the basket when it comes to recovering rebounds.
Krause played the best basketball of his career against the Army in 1932. The star of the visiting Army team was Ray Stecker, who had made things very miserable for the Irish
football team a few months before. But Stecker and the Army did not defeat Notre Dame that night. Ed Krause saw to that. Krause scored 19 points, a few less than the Army total, and thus established a new Notre Dame record for individual scoring. This record stood until the Albion game of- last year when Joe Voegele made 20 points.
Last year Krause led the Irish scoring with 213 points. He made 77 field goals and 59 free throws in 115 attempts. His free throw average for the season was .512 which was second only to the mark of .532 set by Joe Voegele.
Krause’s basket from a prostrate position in the last seconds of play against Butler was one of the highlights of the season.
Ed came to Notre Dame from De LaSalle high school of Chicago. While at De LaSalle, Moose played football, basketball, baseball and track. At the age of fifteen he made the All-Chi-cago football team as a tackle. At sixteen he was All-Chicago basketball guard, and at seventeen he made the All-Tournament team in Loyola’s National Catholic Prep meet. De LaSalle won this National twice while Ed was a member to their court quintet.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (M. D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M. D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Christmas packed
Lavender
Shaving Set
In gift box 89c
This set consists of shaving cream, after-shaving lotion and talc in convenient gift box.
Walgreen
DRUG STORE
208 N. MICHIGAN ST.
L. Newman, Mgr.
Don’t Read This Advertisement!
. . . Unless you intend to go to Chicago soon.
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE has a limited number of rooms available to students and faculty members for the holiday period.
Students .....—...$1.00 per day
Faculty members ..$1.50	per day
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE, 1415 East 59th Street
Next door to the University of Chicago
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
ELMER LAYDEN
Last Saturday morning, Elmer Layden, Notre Dame ’25, signed a contract as head football coach and director of athletics at Notre Dame. News of that agreement brought to me a series of memories I’ve not turned back to for six years.
The Elmer Layden I first knew as a coach was a tight lipped, slim young man, just out of Notre Dame. He was head coach of football, basketball, and track at Columbia college in Dubuque, Iowa.
I can’t recall off-hand, the records that the Layden - coached Columbia teams made. But I do remember that they compared favorably with the results of the previous years when Eddie Anderson, now of Holy Cross, held the reins at Columbia, and produced teams that were at the top of their class. And the years of Layden’s tenure in Dubuque, before Duquesne bid for his services, came at a time when small college material was on the down grade in athletics.
Two very vivid memories of Layden’s coaching and personal performances grew out of one of his seasons at Columbia. He had developed two fine lines out of his squad, but one good backfield quartet was about all that his limited material could produce.
So Coach Layden occasionally had to help the second team along a bit in scrimmage. He played fullback for them. On one occasion, he was the whole backfield, carrying the ball on every play, with no backfield blocking, into his very excellent first team line. And I remember that he made plenty of yardage.
Near the end of that season a heavy snowfall covered Loras Field in Dubuque, and practically defied efforts at scraping and shovelling. So Layden was forced to resort to ball handling drills for his backs on the first day after the snow.
Tw’o small spaces were cleared on the field. In one of them stood the handful of backfield candidates. In the other stood coach Elmer Layden. I remember accurately that the clearings were more than fifty yards apart for I stepped the distance myself, incredulous in my own wideeyed way that anybody could consistently punt a ball that far at such a small target.
But Layden did. For a full halfhour he dropped high twisting spirals into an area hardly larger than a
December 15, 19 3 3
Sorin hall tower room, a full fifty or fifty-five yards down the field.
Not only that, but his Columbia team had punters who were consistently good.
PROSPECT
In the usual run of things I don’t hang crepe by trade. But I won’t be around next year so I want to speak my little piece right now. Any coach, facing the 1934 Notre Dame grid schedule, and hit by the graduation, in wholesale lots, of such men
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL
On Sale Dec. 14th to Jan. 1st—Return Limit Jan. 15th
Round-Trip Bargains
DETROIT.......$ 5.25
TOLEDO...... 5.25
CLEVELAND...... 9.75 PITTSBURGH..... 12.75 NEW YORK....... 21.75
LOUISVILLE.... 8.55
CINCINNATI... 9.25 BUFFALO......... 14.25 *FORT WAYNE. .. 3.75 *Ater December 17th.
GREYHOUND
as finish this year, would have his vrork cut out for him.
Among those who are moving out: one great end, two regular tackles, the first three guards, the first team center, both regular halfbacks, the alternate fullback, and a large group of men who formed the core of the Irish reserve material this fall.
Nobody can laugh off a loss of those proportions. For your own peace of mind, and in justice to yourselves for the sort of support and faith you’ll have to give next year, remember that.
HIRDDEIS OF ROUND-TRIP FARESA
JUST in time for Christmas and all year-end travel—Greyhound cuts round-trip fares to a new low.
Reductions good on all Greyhound schedules in modem, comfortable coaches heated by Tropic-Aire. You’ll find it’s First Class Travel at bargain rates.
UNION BUS DEPOT, Tel. 3-8283 133 S. Lafayette Blvd.
. CAMPUS AGENT Art Sandusky. 155 Alumni Phone Off-Campus Office
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
Will Rogers says, “United States cabinet members can change, but when Notre Dame changes coaches you are getting into real news.” . . . During Red Grange’s three years of playing at Illinois he played for 938 minutes and gained 3,637 yards. He also scored 31 touchdowns . - -Do you know that Duke lost an undefeated and untied record by an off-side penalty in the Georgia Tech ' game? . . . NICK LUKATS should be placed in Notre Dame’s hall of fame along with George Gipp, The Four Horsemen, Frank Carideo and some more of the greats, as a result of his playing in the Army game . . . The professional big league scoring record is held by PIT LEPINE, who made five goals unassisted . . . VIC HANSON, coach at Syracuse U, lost 20 pounds during the past season . . . GEORGE TESSIER, Tulane U guard, has had his nose broken four times while playing football during the past two years . . . In 1919, the four club National Professional Hockey league could have been bought for $20,000. Today the value is set at $3,000,000 . . . Princeton’s freshman football teams have gone through two seasons undefeated and unscored upon . . . RUTGERS and NEW YORK U have met on the gridiron 31 times. The Violets have won 15 games to 14, while two contests have resulted in ties.
JOE STANCOOK, one time Notre Dame freshman fullback, will captain the Army grid team next year ... Dr. Robert E. Blackwell, president of Randolph-Macon College at Ashland, Va., claims that he sees no harm in a young man selling his athletic ability to a college or university ... One of Monmouth College greatest greats is little BOBBY WOLLS, 128 pound halfback who has just completed his third year as a regular . . . Only three players in the National Professional Football league do not possess college training—GIL LEFEBYRE, MOSE KELSCH and BILL DOEHRING ... All three of the Boston U football centers are members of the school’s hockey team . . . LONE STAR DIETZ will again coach the Boston Redskins ... In New York pro football has equalled college attendance during the past season . . . Last year “Rabbit” MA-RANV1LLE had a fielding average of .971 as he made but 22 errors . . . The Princeton football team won nine games and garnered 217 points while their opponents were able to get 8 . . . ALUSTIZO of Stanford and PAGLIA of Santa Clara are rated as the two best kickers on the Pacific
coast . . . SLIP MADIGAN beat the depression by charging ten cents admission for all under 21 for his St. Mary’s-Nevada game. . . .
Wee Willie MacFARLANE with a 67, four under par, set a new course record and led the field at the end of the first day in the Biltmore open tournament . . . Two outstanding plays of the past grid season were BUCKY BRYAN’S 101 yard punt return in the Tulane-Georgia Tech game, and DANNY WELLS’ 57 yard pass in the Harvard-Yale tussle . . . Kurt Kroetzsch was recently chosen as Germany’s greatest all-around athlete . . . COTTON WARBURTON and CHUCK BERNARD of So. California and Michigan respectively, have both been near unanimous choices on every all-American team picked thus far this season . . . The Rockne Trophy given annually by the Notre Dame club of the Capitol District was recently won for the second time by Vincentian high of Albany . . . Although HINKLE of the Green Bay Packers ran the opening kickoff 95 yards against the Chicago Bears, the Packers were unable to move the ball the necessary four yards for a touchdown.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 11)
first division of basketball teams. They are smart, accurate and clever and always seem able to handle anything the Irish may offer. Last year it was Big Dutch Fehring’s last minute baskets that gave them the final edge and he’s back again.
Notre Dame’s footballers, Krause and Peters, may mistake their sports when they see the Purdue team roll out on the floor for eight of the men played on the winning Boilermaker football team. Composed of ten major lettermen, three minor lettermen and six reserves, this outfit is both big and experienced. Fehring, football captain and left tackle, will oppose Captain Ed Krause, another left tackle in football, at the center post. Norman Cottom and Ray Eddy will speed at forward berths and Charles Meade and Louis Harmon will do the guarding. As reserves Coach Lambert has George Duggins, Robert Dornte and Frank Haas, forwards, Dixie Moore, Ed Skoronski, Emmett Lowery and Duane Purvis, guards, and Red Lambert or Ed Elliott at center. While Coach Keogan does not expect to go on winning indefinitely, he does hope that his well-drilled men may take Purdue. After these lean years against them, a victory would be more than welcome.
Following these two home starts, the Irish must roll along to Peoria, Illinois, the home of Bradley Poly
technic Institute. This will be more than familiar territory for forwards Joe Voegele and Marty Peters, who not only live here but played four years of basketball apiece at Spalding Institute in Peoria. They’ll be out to show the home folks that college basketball has improved them greatly, since they cavorted for a Peoria team. Coach A. J. Robinson, whose baseball team made Notre Dame bite the dust last spring, will try to wipe out the single Notre Dame win over Bradley, in the only previous game played, back in 1922. This engagement will take place on Friday, Dec. 22.
Northwestern, a stubborn, fighting Wildcat that turned and handed Notre Dame a defeat last year after losing the first of the series, will play host to the Irish on Dec. 30. It will be an identical situation with last year for the Wildcats are still smarting from a 28 to 24 trimming handed them only the other night at Notre Dame. Coach Dutch Lonborg was faced with the task of virtually rebuilding his outfit this year because five of his lettermen graduated, among whom All-American Joe Reiff, Marvin Moonshowei' and Elmer Johnson were regulars. Lonborg had cocaptains Nelson Culver and Don Brewer as the basis for rebuilding but Brewer has broken his toe and will be out for another month.
From the wild and wooly state of Arizona, the hard-riding, broncobusting basketball players from Arizona University will gallop into the Notre Dame field house for another stop on their eight game trip east. This will be the first meeting for the two teams and Notre Dame should discover a foeman worthy of her steel. Arizona, in 1930, had a freshman team that went through an undefeated season and beat the varsity quintet every time they played. That’s the team that Notre Dame meets on Jan. 4. They are all seniors now and last year had a record of 19 wins and six losses, with Southern California as one of the victims.
Again to the road and the Irish meet Michigan State on Jan. 6. Last year the Notre Dame men won two decisions over the State team. The first was a rather easy 36-19 victory but the second was a stiffer 30-25 win. This year they are a much improved outfit and have already taken the scalp of Michigan U. into their camp. Now they aim to bring back that of the Fighting Irish.
The final of this vacation series of games will be played here on Tuesday, Jan. 9, when the Hilltoppers come down from Marquette for theii* first game of the year with the Notre Dame team. Last year the Marquet-ters were big, fast and accurate and beat the Irish one game by 35-32 in an overtime. It was their first victory over the Irish in ten years.
Sixteen
The Scholastic



^he modern way io go Home for CHRISTMAS
is via
Souths
Houily tiain sei vice nmkes it possible for jou to leave South Bend nt the time most convenient for you. The South Shore electric ttains ale warm and comfoitable; speedy vet safe.
Special Christmas Fare
SOUTH BEND to CHICAGO and return
Good Koinjr Dec. 11 to Jan. 1. with final return limit Jan. 12.
Chicago, South Shore & South Bend Railroad
&
