SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
Fine Sportswear for the Discriminating Man
CORDUROY
COATS
50
In Brown, Tan and Olive
CORDUROY PANTS $7.85
TAXI FREE to the Modern Gilbert’s
^GILBERT'S
813'817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND S LARGEST STOPE FOP MEN!
2
LETTERS
Sir:
The dining-hall cooks do not know how to cook weiners. Somebody should teach them.
Robert T. Stock, 222 Breen-Phillips Stock knows only the half of it. Dr. Plato Aquinas Aristotle, Ph.D., A.M.U., says, “Them cooks can’t cook nothing. What they need is more Prime Matter.” (See story on Page 11).—Editor.
January 16, 1947 Sir:
I have pust returned to my room after the Interhall Swimming Meet, and after having watched some of the fine swimmers participating in this meet, it became a cause of amazement that Notre Dame, with its fine facilities, does not have an Intercollegiate Swimming Squad. I imagine the University officials must have good reasons for not sponsoring this sport, but after much thought I fail to find any such reasons. If it would be at all possible I firmly believe that such an undertaking would do much towards the furthering of athletic variety.
It would afford ample room for more students to show their athletic prowess in something else besides the more publicized sports. I’ve talked this over with a number of the fellows from our hall, and they seem to hold the same hope for the forming of such a squad.
In all probability a number of setbacks would be suffered; however once the University’s interest in such an endeavor were published I believe a number of fine swimmers interested in Notre Dame, but also interested in swimming, would find their way to Notre Dame. In this case it would not be long before Notre Dame would find its usual prominent place in a new field of sports.
I trust that this matter will be taken into serious consideration and will meet with a favorable solution in the not too distant future.
Bill Eggers, 239 Breen-Phillips
❖
To the Editor:
The late and unlamented examinations, happily past for another- four months, gave us again to think that our hoary exam system might be changed. After all, no ex-Cathedra doctrine has proposed that all the work of a semester be crammed into a week, nor is it by papal authority that certain unfortunates, such as I, who now quiver at the (Continued on Page 31)
NAME YOUR SPORT . . .
SONNEBORN'S
has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
PHONE 3-0678 for Reservations
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious
Italian and American Food.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Si., Phone 3-3111
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
3
Open Minds
—for open Country
TELEPHONE men are hard at work extending and improving telephone service in rural areas served by the Bell Companies. They’re pushing a $100,000,000 three to five year program to give telephone service to all who want it just as fast as possible.
To do this they had to look beyond conventional telephone practices. New techniques and new and improved equipment had to be planned, developed and
proved. Now they are furnishing telephone service over rural power fines, over new steel wire that requires fewer poles per mile, over insulated wire that can be buried directly in the ground and by means of rural radio.
Men who approach every problem with open minds... who are guided by ingenuity and resourcefulness rather than by established method... find telephony an ever stimulating and interesting career.
BELL
There’s Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
4
Two things have caused us a considerable amount of reflection in the past few weeks. The first was Norman Corwin’s “One World Flight” series on CBS Tuesdays. These broadcasts are simply the recorded voices and sounds of people and places visited by Corwin on his recent world flight. It is minus the usual Corwin schmaltz, and in its simplicity possesses enormous strength. When you hear a prime minister and a stevedore discuss world problems, in halting thoughtful speech; when you hear the Widow Camelia of Lanuvio, Italy, tell of her husband and two children who were killed in bombardment, it is impossible to be complacent. The suffering world, the conflict in Russo-U.S. relations, the U. S. vet problem, the closed-shop dispute, demand considered action. There begins in this issue of the Scholastic a column known as the “Humanist.” It’s purpose is to print and comment upon the opinions of Notre Dame men on social, economic, political and moral problems.
The only way anything can be effected is by effort. It’s very easy to dismiss as futile any move to improve our situation. Yet it is the only way to effect an improvement. In writing or discussing something like this it is so simple to be just another Brave Young Voice in a self-conscious chorus, but certainly we must try something constructive. Too many of our efforts consist of cynicism, destructive criticism, or the retelling of cute, sly tales about thieving Russian soldiers. Much of the American press has fallen into this redundancy. If you are capable of thinking, write what you think to the “Humanist.” Perhaps we might be able to crystalize some intelligent opinion for ourselves and perhaps we might be able to contribute something worthwhile to American opinion.
From waving the wild flag we go to knocking the competition. John A. (The Week) O’Connor has a tough problem. Janie Powell, “Discovery of the Year” and Frank “inane droolings” Sinatra are regularly on the same radio broad-* cast.
In the basement of the dining hall, about two weeks ago, there was a notice of a lost pipe. The sign described the pipe carefully: “gold stem, blue bowl,
shamrock on bowl, please return to . . .” Someone, an artist at heart if not in practice, had penciled across the bottom of the sign “you mean you want it back?”
We see in the Sunday funnies that Miss Barbara Chipman, of New York and Easton, Pa., “is engaged! Lovely! A gifted young writer—she has a special talent for poetry. Her beauty is poetic, too—and memorable—hei- hair a cap of gold, her brown-amber eyes, the warm peaches-and-dew look of her soft, young complexion. She finds blushcleansing with Ponds Cold Cream delightful.” She also uses Yuban coffee and belongs to the World’s Most Famous After-Shaving Club.
AST1 IATEST TUNES
A Gal in Calico Just Squeeze Me Dry Bones Night and Day Tampico
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
A Smash Hit/
Congress, we understand, is launching an investigation into Communist influences in the press in this country. Editors of the Ave Maria are desperately burning their records.
From the Associated Press we read that Representative O’Toole, a Democrat from New York, told Secretary of Wai- Patterson that it is the Secretary’s “duty to revive” the Notre Dame-Army football game “and see that it is played in New York City.” “Whatever the reason (for the break in the games, he means) it is not too important because Army and Notre Dame are not the only principals to this game. The City of New York is a party to the contest and an important one.”
Open the window, it’s a little warm in here.
Sign magazine’s award for the finest motion picture of the year has gone to an interesting list of pictures. In 1942 the outstanding motion picture of the year was Yankee Doodle Dandy; in 1943, The Song of Bernadette; in 1944, Going My Way; in 1945, The Bells of St. Mary’s; and in 1946, The Green Years. This year we heard that The Miracle of the Bells, a heart-warming bucket of borscht, will be filmed. With all the gambling in sports, surely there is someone who will risk a small bet on what will be the recipient of the Sign’s sixth annual award for the outstanding motion picture of the year, come next January!
A CUSTOM-BLENDED TOBACCO
A rich mixture of choice imported and domestic tobaccos hand mixed from a private formula to give a cool, mild and naturally fragrant smoke.
Pocket size. 30c	8 oz. jar. $1.40
» 16 oz. jar, $2.75
SOLD ONLY BY
110 North Main
“In the J. M. S. Bldg.”
5
Something NEW
in
Notre Dame
CALENDARS
. In booklet form, plastic pictures of the campus. Convenient for recording appointments and special dates.
75 cents
at the
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
The REBELS present . . .
gala
M Alli
<IA%
PARTY
dancing to the music of
THE CAVALIERS
Erskine Park Country Club FEBRUARY 15th, 8:30-11:30 p. m.
Late N. D. - St. Mary's Permissions Chartered Busses
For Bids see:
Fletcher Daniels, 345 Zahm Ian Landry, 149 Cavanaugh Jerry White, 204 Lyons John Ryan, 316 Breen-Phillips Bob Kuehner. 403 Howard Johnny D’Antcni, 102 Walsh . Gordon Fisher, 131 Dillon Ray Hymel, Phone 4-4795 Dave McAfee, 432 Morrissey Joe Beck, 239 Alumni
COLLEGE I AL AH
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
SINGIN' IRISH SCORE SUCCESS ...
Oui’ Glee Club did its bit toward spreading the fame of Notre Dame with a tour- of Illinois and Wisconsin between semesters ... a crooning achievement, you might say.
During their stay in Rockford, the men were treated to a banquet thrown by Mr. Gannon, class of ’23; the sixty-five “Hungry Howlers” stacked away enough chow to keep the ND Dining Hall going for a week. The morning following the big feed, the Glee Club chanced to be passing by and again dropped in on Mr. Gannon. There was still some food to go to waist, so the men took with them, when leaving, three 25 pound turkeys, a couple of hams, and two dozen loaves of homemade bread. As Mr. Gannon put it, “You boys may get hungry and want a little snack on the road.”
❖
One of the features of the Glee Club concert was Bill Gibbons playing Mendelssohn. Mendelssohn lost . . .
❖
In addition to their regularly scheduled concerts, the men also gave a few of the impromptu nature. They sang a couple of numbers for the Wisconsin State Sheriffs Convention in Sheboygan.' They had just finished a tune when one of the badge-toters waddled up to Jack FitzHenry and said, “Please sing This Is My Country.”
Fitz protested, “But we just sang it.”
“Shucks, sure wish I’d known. That happens to be my favorite piece.”
4>
Being forced to stay over in Sheboygan two extra days because of heavy snow storms caused quite a drain on the moola—you know, that’s the filthy stuff that talks while everybody listens. When checking out of the hotel after our prolonged stay, we noticed a sign, “Have you left anything?”
Tom “Cupcake” Devine grunted, “Hmph, should be changed to ‘Have you anything left?’.”
All in all, the Glee Club tour was a tremendous success. Numbers like Gau-demus Hevsomfud and Igitum Delights Auf were successfully rescued from ob
scurity by the Glee Club and will long be remembered throughout the Mid-West.
JUST THINKIN' . . .
Recently some enterprising individual with nothing better to do, took up a survey and discovered that more money is spent on chewing gum than on books . . . could be it’s because you can always borrow a book . . . whoever said that money talks wasn’t joshing . . . but no money talks louder than hush money when it gets its voice back . . . and let us not forget the words of the immortal Izzy Weinstein, “Never marry for money; you can borrow it cheaper.”
❖
ON FOREIGN FIELDS ...
He kissed her in the garden, It was a moonlit night.
She was a marble statue, He was a little tight.
❖
ODDS 'N ENDS ...
With exams over we can breathe easily now and prepare to take things slow for the next four months. After finals, we needed that weekend off (which the South Bend Tribune extended to six days, somehow or other). Took a trip to see an old friend and the friend’s OAO. Her name is June, but he called her Melancholy Baby for short. We know why now. She has a face like a melon and a figure like a collie.
♦
Students who went to see the Big Sleep were a little disappointed. Seems the word had spread around that it was a yarn about life in a Notre Dame classroom.
❖
Genuine “Harps” were heartbroken last week at the Count Basie performance when the featured male vocalist stepped up to the mike and warbled Danny Boy. DeValera, in an exclusive story to the Scholastic, cabled that John McCormack turned over in his grave. We’ll stick by our Glee Club boys.
❖
Have you noticed the quality of the meat lately? We dug into the stew a few days back and found a card, Courtesy of Paul’s Shoe Repair.
6
By John A. O'Connor

Clare Booth Luce, authoress, former Cogresswoman, wife of the Editor of Time & Life, and recent convert to Catholicism, has a nifty article in this month's edition of McCalls. Notre Dame men, having certainly noticed the amazing blonde on the cover, should feel no selfconscious twinge in picking up this slick issue. Mrs. Luce’s story is well told; her “real Reason” for joining the fold should be of paramount interest to intellectual non-Catholics as well as to us born-lucky right-handers.
February promises to be a big music month for South Benders. Phil Spitalny, Joseph Szigeti and Sigmund Romberg are all due at John Adams High Auditorium, while Tommy Tucker will thump it out for the jivehounds at the local Bedlam.
Best dressed man over the recent vacation was Frank Perez, dapper San Franciscan, all dolled up in a sharp soft- blue pin-stripe suit. Reason: he took the Important Step at the little Log Chapel during interim. His lovely bride is the former Betty Jean Foster of Elkhart, a cute number and rumored to be a good cook.
❖
Doubly painful was the news which Louella Parsons lisped to the world a short while back. Painful first because we hated to see that too-sweet Van Johnson (he of the constipated expression) desert the ranks of Hollywood’s lone wolves and move in with Evie Wynn. Secondly because we hated to see that funny fellow Keenan Wynn given the smoggy air in such a hurtful affair. But then they all seemed to weather the exchange well. However Evie had better be able to put away a little in the cookie jar, for should Van make a couple more pictures like that “No Leave, No Love” he may very well be back posing for Serutan ads.
❖
Monsignor Fulton Sheen, back on the Catholic Hour (Sunday, 5 p.m.), is pulling no punches in his powerful lectures. He advocates no compromise with Communism or Communists. Nor should we.
But every fifty-cent piece (and more) across the paw window at a theatre showing crummy films which like gnawing worms eat at the foundations of Christianity, American Democracy, and moral civilization, is a contribution to a cause which is definitely anti-Christ. This namby-pamby finger-shaking at big producers by the Legion of Decency and weakly - publicized Bishops’ speeches doesn’t get much done! We hereby advocate a militant organization originating here at ND that will use a little elbow on the Hollywood boys. Should a pic come to town that doesn’t measure up, then boycott the theatre; 4,500 ND men staying away from a showhouse ought to be felt at the box-office. Just think if a ND All-American like Connor or Lu jack would be pictured amongst ND student pickets demonstrating before a theatre with signs like “Duel in the Sun is objectionable on moral ground;” think of the effect on hero-worshipping kids in the country! An active campaign, spreading among the Catholic colleges, would, through publicity and box-office squeezing, make itself felt in the front offices out Hollywood way. In addition to this outside pressure, why not an inside campaign? Say, offer prizes here at ND for the best student literary works, scenario ideas, novels, etc. We’d soon turn out some pretty good stuff that would be gobbled up by Hollywood, then we’d have a wedge, and the flood of good stuff would soon deluge the rot that’s stacked up on the shelves in movieland.
❖
Otto L. Weise, editor-in-chief of McCall’s (plugged at the head of this column) was recently reported by newspapers as speaking before an annual Women’s Patriotic Conference on National Defense, in which he was reported to have said that children are no longer a financial asset but a liability and women consequently have reason to feel that motherhood “is not held in high repute.” Open letter to wise-guy Weise: “Listen, Weise, where in blazes would National Defense or this Nation be without kids? Wise up, Weise! Quit spreading such slobber.” We hereby suggest that ND men who wish to read Mrs. Luce’s fine article in Mr. Weise’s rag should pick it up and read it at the news-stand; don’t buy it.
1AHII
• Goose-neck . . $3.95
•	Swivel-head . . $4.95
•	Fluorescent . . . $8.75
up
LOG - LOG SLIDE RULES
EUJI NE JJ JYJTEMJ
126 S. MAIN
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of -the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405
7
TH£ nOTR£ DfllUt SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quast Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
John Def ant. Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
REWRITE
Bob Stock Ed Snyder Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor-
Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
Bill Bradley John Hupf
Vern Kelley
George McCarthy
John Noonan
Steve Valetich
Joe Harrington Lou Horning Roy Lang Tom Murray Phil Shea John Waters
SPORTS STAFF
Joe Cheney, Editor
Pete Brown, Associate Editor Dave Warner	Bob Leander
Jim Howard	John Krueger
Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor
Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein
Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor Jerry’ Olwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO CREDITS
Pictures on page 34 by’ Dave Cowdin. Cartoon on page 19 by John Krueger.
COVER:
Drawn by Don Birren. On the driver’s seat is Mary’ Frances Hardin, and Joanne Sullivan is inside the coach. They are the dates of Terry Brennan and Bill Murtagh.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
________________________Faculty Advisor
Bob Kopf____________1__Business Manager
Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf ________Circulation M. E. Varga__________________—Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building. Notre Dame. Indiana.
the fcAiivi'l ^beAh .. •
Robert L. Reynolds, of Walsh Hall, has penned us a note which we are passing along. He says:
“I would like to pass on a quotation from Jim Costin’s column in the January 12th issue of Our Sunday Visitor, to wit:
‘The significance came in the fact that Notre Dame authorities allowed the students to fire such blasts at arrangements for the Army game. Such a policy indicated to me that Notre Dame and Army had come to a parting of the ways.’
If this typewriter possessed italics, I would have italicized that word “allowed,” because this word furnishes the purpose of this letter. It is a well-defined feeling among the students on this campus that the Scholastic has not been reflecting real student opinion in its columns. Furthermore, to allow an outside writer to spread all over the country the idea that Notre Dame students have to be “allowed” to express their opinions in their own publications is certainly the last straw in criticizing the journalistic integrity of the Scholastic and the intellectual freedom of the students whose opinions it supposedly represents.”
Obviously we have no control over what Jim Costin, or anyone else, writes; we can neither “allow” nor prevent him from expressing an opinion. The Scholastic has a high regard for the sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, not only because he is always most cooperative and helpful, but because he is a sincere friend of Notre Dame; it is unfortunate, however, that he chose to express an opinion contrary to fact in a paper of such wide circulation as The Sunday Visitor. It was a reflection on the students and the student publication, since the tirade in our editorial columns against the seating arrangements at the Army game was most certainly not instigated nor “allowed” by administration officials, but was merely the venting of the general wrath of the students who attended the game. Mr. Costin erred badly when he said University officials “allowed” our editorial: it is well-known that Notre Dame wished to continue the Army series and at the time, when new contractural arrangements were being discussed, was most interested in keeping relations with Army harmonious.
It is not the purpose of this editorial, however, to explain or apologize for our
actions, but to treat of Letter-Writer Reynolds charge that the Scholastic “has not been reflecting real student opinion.” We believe we have been, and in order to widen student participation in the magazine we are opening the editorial page to them. We will accept editorials written by any student, but with certain limitations: we are not interested in gripes—the Scholastic has a letter column for that purpose; the editorials must be factual and of general interest to the student body; and to guarantee their authenticity, they must signed and turned in, in person, to the editor in the Cavanaugh basement office on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday evenings from 7:30 to 9:00 o’clock.
Portrait of a Malcontent
He is about 24; he is a veteran, probably an ex-buck sergeant or its equivalent, who spent a year or a year and a half overseas, and put in that much time stateside. He is a last half sophomore and usually gets the “gentleman’s C.” He is temperamental, considers himself witty, and is lost when left alone. His policies are guided by the smug complacency in which he flounders. Selfishness is his golden rule, criticism his whip. It is never constructive but always loud. He thinks that he has something coming, but he knows neither what nor why. The lack of courage of his convictions force him to the apparent “easy way.” Cynicism replaces his boyish humor, just as pleasures supplant happiness.
Conversation is his chief exercise, to belittle is his rhapsody. Lengthy discourses pour forth from his “sack” as he rests between classes; “the system is all wrong” or “they can’t do this to me” are his themes. He gripes about the organizations to which he belongs, but he didn’t bother to vote or to support any of the plans. He discredits the club officers and their programs which were made for him, but he didn’t go to the meetings to debate any of the proposals. He is above all that. He abides in a make-believe world until he goes back to Podunk or West 148th Street to make hamburgers.	.
He does not realize that this same listlessness is the very reason that such movements as Communism have become a powerful force. They have taken over complete labor unions because they were the only elements that went to the meetings and could control a quorum. Does he not see the possibilities opened by these attitudes? Does the ND griper realize that his dislikes today are the direct results of his not doing?—H. Smith Keel.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 14
FEBRUARY 7, 1947
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Enrollment Jumps to Record High
Sophomores Dance to Art Jarrett Tonight; Western Spirit to Be Rampant in Palais
By BOB VIERHILE
The sign above the door reads, “Park Your Weapons in the Vestibule.” That sign will go unheeded tonight, but there will be no shootin’ because to 700 sophomores, upperclassmen and their dates, it will symbolize the rootin’-tootin’ gold rush days of 1849 transplanted within the wild-westernized Palais Royale ballroom, backdrop for tonight’s annual Sophomore Cotillion.
Stealing a chapter right out of the horsiest western novel, the Sophomore class has combined the old ’49 spirit of “54-40, or fight” with the modern music of Art Jarrett’s orchestra in what they hope will be a satisfying blend for their many guests. Anyway, it cannot be said that this year’s Sophomore class has not gone all the way to recast their theme: “The ’49ers; Sheepskin in 1949, or Bust.”
Unlike most western movies, there will be two heroes, two heroines, no villains and no horses in tonight’s cast. Co-starring in the feminine lead will be lovely Mary Frances Hardin and equally lovely Joanne Sullivan. Miss Hardin, a sophomore at Barat College in Lake Forest, Illinois, will be the guest of Terry Brennan, Sophomore class president. While Miss Sullivan, a junior at the University of Toledo, will be escorted by Bill Murtagh, vice-president of the Sophomore class.
Starting with tonight’s dance, the weekend schedule will be packed with more action than a dozen dime novels. Art Jarrett, somewhat of a gold-rusher himself along musical lines, and his orchestra will start the musical stage coach rolling at nine, will bring it to a halt at one o’clock. Art and his boys are old hands in the music business, having done their share of rustling up and down the East coast and in and among Chicago’s better nite spots. Their last
Art Jarrett who provides music for tonight's Cotillion.
engagement was in the Bronze Room of the Hotel Cleveland.
Again on Saturday afternoon there will be an abbreviated version of tonight’s shindig at the same Palais Royale. The Notre Dame Cavaliers will try to take up where Art Jarrett’s boys leave off. Dancing will continue from 2 to 5 p. m.
Saturday night, the scene will change from ballroom to basketball court. To the first 300 bid buyers went free tickets to tomorrow night’s cage fracas between thrice-beaten Notre Dame and oft-beaten Michigan State. Those cotillion goers (Continued on Page 29)
Total Registration Reaches 4665 Mark
By PHIL SHEA
Along with the wintry blasts coining out of the Northwest, old man winter and Jack Frost combined forces to lay out the “white carpet” of welcome for Notre Dame students returning fdr the 1947 Spring Semester. Between battling the elements and the many lines which led to the various points requiring the submission of certifications, the exhausted student became resigned to his fate and sought the end of the registration ordeal with customary perseverance. However, the efficiency with which lines were handled, and the relatively short time spent with the Veterans’ Administration drew a most favorable comparison with last semester’s mad dash and rush.
Now that registration is history and the totals of the various colleges are added, the University finds an increase of 165 new students over last semester’s record breaking 4500 attendance mark. With mid-year graduation approximating 280, some mid-semester casualties and the reception of 500 former Notre Dame students back into the fold, the the attendance mark is up to 4665.
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies released the following registration figures: The College of Arts and Letters reached 1073 students; while the College of Commerce numbered 1407 pupils under the Clipper Ship. The College of Commerce is the one school showing the most marked increase in enrollment over last semester. The student increase is close to 200. Dean Baldinger of the College of Science reports 512 men present and the Engineers boast of 1039 filling their ranks. Dean Manion of the Law School witnessed a decrease of 10 men claimed by graduation leaving 235 to perspire over the multitudinous “Reporters.” Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School is proud to report an increase of 18 over last semester, (Continued on Page 29)
9
Fr. Gallagher Gives First Series Concert
Pianist, opera composer (unsuccessful) and musical lecturer is Father John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., who was the first Notre Dame musician to be featured on Notre Dame’s new Lecture Recital series. The first concert was given last Wednesday. For his work Father Gallagher chose the powerful and difficult “Hammer-Klavier” Sonata by Beethoven, but to Father Gallagher it was simply a vehicle to display his musical prowess the better.
Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C.
Born on Dec. 27, 1909, in Philadelphia, Father Gallagher had a musical background from his youth. At the Visitation parish in Kensington, he studied under the noted choirmaster, Hans Conrad Schwertz, who was indeed a character. Schwertz was an impeccable Prussian, complete with Prince Albert, red bandana handkerchief he used for snuffing, brocaded vest with large gold chain, a closed-faced watch at one end and a gold pencil at the other. He topped off his Beau Brummel ensemble with a black bow tie, large-brim hat, gray spats and an ever-present cane.
The technique of the great organist was frankly based on fear, but Father Gallagher soon came to respect him as a fine musician. Father Gallagher misdeeds and marks were kept in a large “judgment book,” and Schwertz’s gold pencil cracked his fingers more than once. The only permanent injury he sustained to his hands came not from the hated pencil, but from Schwertz’s bete noir, the verboten baseball.
Father Gallagher studied under Schwertz until he was in second year high school, when difficulties with Greek
roots came first and Father Gallagher was forced to give up music.
At Notre Dame, Father Gallagher was introduced to Gregorian chant by Father Connerton, then director of the Moreau Choir, who allowed the young musician to lead the choir in practice. After he was ordained, the community7 sent him to New York University, where he did graduate study in composition and musicology.
Father Gallagher has written in all the musical forms, including an opera. The opera was based on the life'of the founder of the Holy Cross Order, Father Moreau, but somehow the murders, duets, soldier choruses and other ingredients added up to what Father Gallagher calls “a terribly incongruent thing ... an experience better forgotten.” He hopes for more success with a musical story of the biblical Esther and another on the life of St. Sebastian.
Father Gallagher’s ambition is to per-■ petuate the great Catholic musical traditions which gave us the art and science of music, and to help make Notre Dame a center for the professional training of Catholic choirmasters who will carry on the work of men like Schwertz at Visitation.
DuPont Co. Awards Fellowship to ND
The University of Notre Dame is one of 46 American universities to share in 75 post graduate and post doctoral fellowships being awarded by the DuPont company for the current academic year. Notre Dame was awarded a post graduate fellowship in chemistry.
Each post-graduate fellowship provides $1,200 for a single person or $1,800 for a married person, together with a grant of $1,000 to the university. The post doctoral fellowships carry an award of $3,000, with a grant of $1,500 to the university.
The selection of nominees for the awards and choice of problems on which they are to work is left to the universities, and the individual is under no obligation with respect to employment after he completes his work under the fellowship.	.
The fellowship plan was adopted by DuPont in 1918 and has been maintained, with but one interruption, ever since. The plan is designated to provide means for advanced thaining of chemists, physicists and engineers.
Forty-two of the post graduate fellowships are in chemistry, five in physics, fifteen in chemical engineering, and seven in mechanical engineering. There are also six post doctoral fellowships in chemistry.-TTJoZin Waters
Student Forum Plan Discussed By Council
An organized forum for the discussion of student problems and current topics was proposed last Monday night in the Student Council's weekly meeting by John O’Connor, council representative from Zahm Hall.
O’Connor suggested that the student organizations already existing on the campus, such as the Blue Circle and the Wranglers, would be of valuable assistance in the formation of the forum. Father Irving, council moderator, professed his interest in the forum idea and declared that it might be possible to hold meetings in Washington Hall where as many of the students who cared to attend could meet.
Father Irving further suggested that two or three men could prepare a short informative talk on some particular subject or problem, after which the meeting would be thrown open for discussion from the floor and participation of the student body.
Also on the council’s agenda was a financial report by Secretary-Treasurer Richard Stack. He announced that total income from all victory dances amounted to $1878.48. Expenses totalled $1347.33, of which $638.50 went in payment of the twenty per cent federal tax due on all ticket sales, and $708.83 for labor, posters, orchestra fees, tickets, soft drinks, and related items.
Another piece of business handled by the council was the appointment of a committee for the fostering of the National Student Organization on the Notre Dame campus. Jerry Feeney was named chairman. Assisting him will be Charles Powers, student representative; Arthur Clark, club representative; Larry Turner, who will be in charge of elections; Leonard Bodkin, publicity; and Joe Cheney, administration.
—John Noonan
" -...CAN YOU WRITE? .
Juggler, the new student literary magazine, is open to any substantially good writing . . . fiction, poetry, informal essay, critical essay. So if you have anything that you are especially proud of, send it on to Juggler and it will be conscientiously read and considered. Juggler wants to be good, of course, but Juggler also wants to be as representative as possible. It‘s your magazine to write in, as well as to read. Bring material either to 326 or 352 Sorin Hall, before Feb. 28.
10
Pundit Corrals All; Philosophers Irked
By JOE WILCOX
From the severe, book-lined office of Dr. Plato Aquinas Aristotle, Ph.D., A.M.U.*, this week came a startling announcement. Middle-aged, balding, den-tured Dr. Aristotle had cornered a market: he had all the prime matter. Other philosophers, shocked by the news, poured into the doctor’s office, were met by his secretary, who said, “Dr. Aristotle is.” Learning this fact, the philosophers were thrown into consternation, withdrew, were at press time trying to decide if they were, too.
Reached in his home, Dr. Aristotle was glad to talk to newsmen; said he: “Prime matter is a principle and a being, hence, not existing, can have no determination; is, then, as such totally indeterminate, or perfectly indeterminable; or the determinable undetermined of pure potency. That, gentlemen, is what I have all of. Furthermore, it is not tangible, since it does not exist of itself, but only in some other way, if at all. I do not intend to determine all of it at once. Later perhaps, I shall sell some; for the present, I shall continue to be. The prime matter, being intangible, is not taxable. I, gentlemen, having nothing at all, have got all of everything.”
Customs Officials Puzzled
The discovery touched off a tricky question for customs officials, who were looking up prime matter in the tariff laws. Said one: “What this bird has got ain’t nuttin’. He says he’s got everything. He’s got me.” Other officials were sure Aristotle had imported some of the prime matter, were not sure how much, frantically sought to protect the stock market. One, in desperation, decided to hang himself, did so, found he had merely been determined anew.
National opinion, polled quickly, varied. J. Phigg, a plumber of Pawtucket, R. I., said, “This guy is quite a plunger.” Opined Senator Hugh Geautu, famed “this is a great country” orator from East Lynn, “This is an un-American plot to undermine free enterprise and the American way. I am against it.” Housewives were interested: ventured one, Mrs. Oscar Oscarson of Spokane, “I wonder if he can make me a pop-up toaster?”
To date, Dr. Aristotle had sat tight, made no toasters, said little. Approached for his reaction to public comment, he was wary; retaliated he to questioning: “I am.”
*All Mixed Up. ’
The Humanist
JAMES BURNS	WARREN FRONRATH
AN OPEN LETTER TO THE STUDENT BODY
Fellow Students:
The fruits of a past generation have yielded a perplexing and untold number of social, political and economic problems that demand active and intelligent consideration. Should we persist in pawning our reason each time we buy a newspaper or a weekly newsmagazine, for the selfish views of professional editorial writer’s and cheap political press'.Ba groups, we must logically and without complaint suffer over again a world gutted by civil strife and the chaos of war. If we continue to forfeit, because of smugness and mental lethargy, our democratic heritage of active participation in national and international affairs, we shall be guilty of a moral crime as devastating and consequential as any imaginable physical wrong.
It has been proclaimed, loudly and forcefully, that the basis of an intelligent society is an intelligent individual. We have all heard much about social responsibility, about social consciousness, about a thinking citizenry. It is an often treated theme, but one, however, which can never be exhausted since it concerns itself with a need that is evident, with a deficiency in our society that is glaring.
The war that affected all of us, directly or otherwise, was conducted with several ideals that we held to be paramount in a civilized society. We were told that we were struggling for a free world, a world which would afford personal freedom to all peoples and the opportunity to secure and maintain a decent and wholesome livelihood. The governments of the allied nations, of the free peoples, spared no efforts to impress these points upon their citizens. For five years, the wealth and might of these powers were spent in the struggle to destroy suppression, slavery, bigotry, to overthrow the foes of this personal freedom that we were told is so dear to the hearts of all of us. The smallest individual sacrifice was the loss of several precious, irredeemable years, the greatest was the loss of life itself. No sacrifice was deemed too great; the integrity of mankind was at stake,
The war has been over now for some two years. If these ideals, these argu
ments for the willing surrender of life and liberty were more than empty words, more than subtle vicious propaganda, we should expect to find some of them projected and evidenced in this post-war society, we should expect to find them being activated and a part of a world rebuilding itself. If, however, they were nothing- more than mere mouthings on the part of the politicians, on the part of our “leaders,”, then the individual citizen, regardless of where we find him, has not profited, has not been granted this precious liberty and the opportunity to live decently and peacefully; we shall have once again been duped, the sacrifices will have been in vain, and there is no such thing as human integrity.
It is necessary, then, for each individual to investigate the society about him, as a thinking being, capable of arriving at an intelligent conclusion free from the coercive methods of the demagogues—such men as make a practice of playing upon the ignorant prejudices of an unthinking society. And we as college students, because of our association -with the elements of enlightenment, have a greater obligation to take the initiative in this qualification of existing conditions. If we as college students fail in this obligation, we have betrayed a heritage and endangered the posterity that must necessarily inherit the consequences of our conduct. For society can expect no reformation, no moral awakening if we squander the opportunities offered us as members of a university group.
We must then take time to consider the world about us and to qualify it in the light of those ideals that were supposed to herald the birth of a new age, an age characterized by peace and prosperity. We must not presume that these ideals can be confined to any particular aspect of society, such as the worth of the Polish elections, of the Tito regime, or the validity of the Communist philosophy. But these postulates of free men must be looked for in every feature and facet of our national and international relations, such as the present problem of formulating a constructive labor policy or the ever-present problem of prejudices and intolerance. It will, therefore, be the purpose of this column to present you with the opportunity to express your ideas and conclusions con-
(Continued on Page 12)
II
BENGAL BOUTS
Fightal Statistics
Contestants report to the old gym over Mac's Equipment Room in the Field House between 3 to 5 daily.
Contestants must have a medical slip certifying their physical eligibility from Dr. Caton at the University Infirmary.
Everyone is welcome at the workouts whether entering the Bengals or not. (Story on Page 18).
THE HUMANIST (Continued from P. 11) cerning several vital problems that are asserting themselves today—problems that demand our attention and straightforward thinking. These problems have been selected with the help of prominent faculty members and will be presented in a manner that will allow your pro-and-con opinions to be made known. The question of each week will be posed in this column and the summarized results will be made known the following week.
We wish to impress upon you that this is your column, your medium of making known your attitudes and opinions. It will also be an organ by which you will become familiar with the opinions and thought direction of your fellow students. The value and the very existence of the column will depend upon the volume of your response. A failure to respond will be an indication that you will continue this lethargic attitude and have no interest in the society that you are about to inherit and of which you are about to be an active and necessary part.
The first question for your consideration is the problem of pending labor legislation as a means of achieving industrial peace. Do you think such legislation— as anti-strike bills, outlawing of the closed shop and of industry-wide bargaining, or compulsory arbitration—is necessary; and will such legislation be constructive?
Please submit your views on this problem by Monday evening, February 10, to The Humanist, Box 174, Notre Dame, Indiana.
College students are coming into politics these days. Robert Bock, a University of Kansas student, was chosen in the November election as a member of the Kansas House of Representatives. The 21-year-old sophomore will be the youngest member of the legislature.
A student was refused admission to Western Michigan College because all classroom seats were occupied. His ingenuity and determination caused the "ban to be lifted by a very simple plan. He now carries his own folding chair.
12
REDS ACTIVE IN NATIONAL STUDENT UNION, NOTRE DAME DELEGATES SAY
In a world seasoned by the growing, number and power of labor unions, the formation of a union of college students is something that probably must be expected. Yet a movement is now in progress to form a National Student Organization in the United States, and believe it or not, the movement is backed by the management of education, namely the administrations of many American colleges.	.
Here at Notre Dame, the embyro group has been given a green light and last Dec. 28-30, a four-man delegation representing Notre Dame was present at the Chicago Student Conference.
The background, objectives, and plans of this proposed student group are, to say the least, well-written, in fact as well-written as an insurance policy, for it takes one actuary to decipher the work of another.
It all began last August in Prague, Czechoslovakia. An organization titled the World Student Conference brought together student-representatives from 36 nations to form an International Union of Students. Nine national student organizations cooperated on an American Preparatory Committee to select 25 American delegates, who came from student organizations and ten strategically located universities in the United States. Included among the student groups were some Catholic student organizations. The delegates to the international meeting smelled Communism at the Prague meet-
THE STUDENT PRINTS
How about contributing to your column again this semester, fellows?
Original quips, gags, jokes, poems and sayings will be welcomed . . . Local material especially can be used . . . What we want to Imow is what you, Joe Student, are thinking and laughing about . . . We iwant your ideas in your magazine.
There are over 4,000 students at Notre Dame and a very small percentage of them are on the Scholastic staff . . . Lots of you fellows figure that you can’t afford the time it would take to become a member but that you would like to take some part in the publication that represents you ... So just keep an eye open and mail or deliver your observations to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons HaU .. . Then look for YOUR name in YOUR column.
ing—a smell that many people feel is contaminating every union, labor or student.
Upon their return, the members of the Prague conference went into a huddle with the American Preparatory Committee, and the Chicago Student Conference was the result. Tasks for cnsidera-tion of this conference were: to hear reports on and discuss the IUS; to discuss the need and purpose, and make recommendations for the formation of a National Student Organization in the United States; to discuss and act on the formation of a preparatory committee whose duty would be to plan for a representative conference at which a national student organization would be formed.
Some 295 different colleges and universities in the United States were represented at the Windy City confab. Notre Dame sent Bob Uhl, John R. O’Connor, Al Sommers and Robert Concan-non as its representatives. This foursome released its report of the conference this week.
Outlined briefly the program of such a national student organization would be: to secure an intensive system of scholarships and allowances; to increase the opportunity for student exchange; to discuss the possible improvement of curricula and teaching methods; to increase student-faculty relationships and cooperation; to investigate all possibilities that best serve student needs. Another very important object of such a group would be to give the U. S. a highly representative block at any future international student meetings.
The Notre Dame delegation on the whole recommended N.D. participation in this national student group. Various reasons were given for this decision, which, boiled down, show the need for Catholic schools to cooperate in this program and make certain that it sticks to its objective and does not become a mouthpiece for the Commies.
Al Sommers, one of the N.D. observers, however, did not come up with an all-too-rosy outlook of this proposed organization. He saw a Red taint in most of the proceedings. In essence, he objected that the temporarily elected officers of the new group looked for the most part incompetent; that floor leaders were incited by Communistic doctrines; that the organization will be short-lived. His last-objection was based on the fact that most students are now considerably
(Continued on Page 17)
Mediaeval Institute Inaugurated
A unique project in American scholarship, the Mediaeval Institute, was formally inaugurated last Sunday to study the principles and ideals underlying the formation of Western civilization in the Middle Ages, and to apply them for the benefit of art, science, religion, politics and other phases of modern living.
In an address to the faculty and students, the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Mediaeval Institute, said that contrary to popular belief, the Middle Ages—the so-called “Dark Ages”—were productive of the highest type of Christian culture, which the Institute proposes to study. Father Phelan also was the celebrant of a Solemn High Mass for the faculty and students which marked the fonnal opening of the Institute.
Citing the fact that “vast numbers of our fellow citizens no longer think in Christian categories nor envisage the problems of moral, social or political life, industry, education, finance, or law from the traditional point of view of Christian ethics,” Father Phelan warned that Western civilization as we know it is threatened with extinction “unless we are prepared to make vast and mighty efforts to preserve it and pass it on to our posterity.”
Thorough Study Needed
“The University of Notre Dame,” he added, “is prepared to take a leading part in this great and noble enterprise. The time is ripe for a thorough-going study of what that tradition of Christian culture historically implies—what are its guiding principles in thought, in actual living, in art, in religion, in politics—in a word, in all the various elements of human life which go to make a civilization.”
Father Phelan explained that the work of the Institute will be primarily re-; search into the history of mediaeval culture in all its aspects. An apparent “conspiracy of history,” he added, has taught us to look upon the Middle Ages as a “long dark night of a thousand years.” Until recently, this has been the opinion of even learned people, he declared.
“Yet,” he added, “those were the ages in which the vital forces of Christian culture, leavened the mass of ignorance and superstition among the barbarians who swept over Europe; those were the centuries which saw the transformation of fierce and warlike peoples into lovers
of ardor and peace; they were the ages which fostered the development of stable government, wise laws and progressive institutions, gained recognition for the dignity of labor and regarded expert craftsmanship; they gave birth to the first universities, encouraged profound philosophical and theological learning; inspired great works of art (like the cathedrals of Europe) and in general, accumulated the vast capital of culture and civilization upon which the Western world has been living ever since.
“We are the heirs to all that wealth of human values. The Mediaeval Institute proposes to investigate the resources of that inheritance and to learn to use it for the benefit of contemporary society. . . .”
Must Integrate Cultures
“Our problems concern the integration of modern industrialism, modern democracy, modern finances and commerce, modern science and invention into the traditional culture which our remote ancestors built up and our immediate forefathers bequeathed to us. The peoples of Europe among whom that culture originated and developed were themselves confronted with similar problems all through the course - of their history. They tackled them and solved them. Their solutions were not always the best that could have been found, but they were more than satisfactory and perhaps, the best that could be done in the conditions and circumstances of the times.
“We must tackle our contemporary problems with the same spirit. . . ‘. All the great conquests of modern science and learning must once again be integrated into that traditional culture from which they should never have been severed. But in order to achieve that aim, we must learn all over again exactly what that culture stands for and how it can be sustained. This is the work which the Mediaeval Institute proposes to undertake.”	•
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, introduced Father Phelan to the faculty and students.
The curriculum for the first semester of the Institute will consist of Mediaeval Theology, History of Mediaeval Philosophy, Philosophy of St. Thomas, Mediaeval History, Mediaeval Vernacular Languages and Literatures, Mediaeval Latin Language and Literature, Mediaeval
Latin Palaeography and Mediaeval Art History.
Seven members of the faculty of the Graduate School at Notre Dame will assist Father Phelan in the instruction given at the Institute for the Spring semester. Others will be added as lecturers in the Fall semester. Those who will serve in the first semester of the Institute and their respective fields include: Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Middle English and Chaucer; Dr. William H.-Bennett, Middle English and Gothic; Dr. Anton H. Chroust, History of Philosophy; Dr. James A. Corbett, Mediaeval History; Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., Mediaeval Latin; Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School, Philosophical Bibliography; Dr. Yves Simon, Philosophy, and Father Phelan, Philosophy.
KCs Plan Bengals At Tuesday Meeting
The members of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus will gather in the council chambers in Walsh Hall at 7:30 p. m. next Tuesday to begin a series of activities which will extend throughout the semester. Highlighting the meeting will be a review of the past six months with the report for that period being given by the board of trustees. From this discussion of the immediate past, a preview of the coming months and the work to be done will be given.	’
Heading the activities to be sponsored this semester will be the Bengal Bouts. Detailed plans and organization of (the principal committees will be carried'out at this meeting. Christy Walsh, Jr., and the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., who head the workers for this charitable work will invite all interested knights to help in the work that will have to be done to assure a successful boxing tournament.
Plans for participation by the Notre Dame council in the state basketball tournament and in the state bowling tournament will also be laid at this meeting by Tom Broden, chairman of the Council Activities group. A final report on the clothing drive which was carried out prior to the Christmas vacation will be given by Frank Salierno of the Mission committee. A summary of work done to aid the orphans of South Bend through the gifts given them by the Notre Dame council members will also be given.
IS
The House That Sorin Built
By JOHN CARROLL CARTER
Back home, in Magnolia, Georgia, whenever visitors come to town or new neighbors move in from the hinterland, we always show off the city sights. Sometimes we point with pride at the statue of General Glitch at the battle of Glutch, sometimes at the headquarters of the state Anti-Saloon League, but more often we show them the oldest or biggest building in town . . . usually the county court house or the state Capitol building. Like Magnolia, Notre Dame also boasts its Capitol, the Administration building.
The present capitol, the heart and center of Notre Dame, is the third to occupy the same ground. The first was built about two years after the second log chapel was erected by Father Sorin who had been at Notre Dame but a
faced dome and statue of Our Lady stood in its place. The following year the library boasted a whopping 7,000 volumes; Father Patrick Dillon was President; and the new building was dedicated before the largest 'number of people ever to gather here up to that time. Those were the days in which fishing and rowing were the popular recreations and “it was thought improper for an underclassman to put his thumb to his organ of smell upon passing a senior.” All this-happened before the Scholastic could record it, • since that worthy magazine was not born until 1867.
For fourteen years this building was practically the whole University. The
well-regimented students of those days ate their meals, slept, went to their classes and took recreation within those four walls. Then, on April 23, 1879, fire of an unknown cause, roared through the great college building and undid, in a few brief hours, the work which had taken Father Sorin 37 years to accomplish. Frantic messages to town pleading “Please send the fire engine” and other desperate efforts to save the structure went for nought. All that survived of the University were the Infirmary, Science Hall, the steam house, printing plant, the old church and Presbytery. The property damage was estimated to be a quarter of a million dollars; 20,000 volumes of the library were lost, in addi
short time. That same year, 1844, Notre Dame was chartered, and soon afterwards a small notice appeared in a prominent directory.
“A school for young men has lately been opened at Southbend (sic) near Washington, Ind. (Apparently the editor of the directory forgot that Father Sorin moved from Vincennes which is near Washington in Southern Indiana) under the direction of Rev. E. Sorin. Per quarter for tuition, board, washing and mending, S18.”
First Building 'Magnificent Structure’
This first college building was a magnificent structure for the untamed wilds of Indiana, four stories high and mounted with a tower and a black, iron cross. Despite its four stories, it wasn’t quite as large as one of the library’s reading rooms. Not long after, Notre Dame conferred its first degree on the Rev. N. H. Gillespie, and Henry Clay, the great statesman, established the first post office here in 1851.
The quadrangle was only a half acre of cleared woodland, and the old stage road to South Bend went right through what is now Sorin Hall Sub. Later this first Administration Building was enlarged by the addition of two wings, but even this alteration proved insufficient for Father Sorin’s ever growing group ■of students.
Though only 21 years old, Notre Dame In 1865 celebrated the attainment of its majority by building a new Capitol. The previous building was torn down that summer and within two months a six story edifice mounted with a white-sur-
Classic photograph of the dome with lights reflecting from low-hanging clouds.
14
tion to many valuable papers and manuscripts, and the college had to be closed.
It was obvious that a new building had to be built, and at once, if the University were to continue. Therefore Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, of Chicago, was commissioned to draw up the plans for a new structure, and two months after the disastrous fire, on June 19, 1879, the first stone was laid in the new foundation. No shortage of materials and manpower plagued the builders. As many as 300 men worked on the building at one time.
Only two walls of the original college building were still standing after the fire of 1879
The plans called for the building to be four stories above the ground floor, topped with gothic spires and a golden dome surmounted by a collosal statue of the Queen of Heaven. Wrote the Scholastic :
it measures 200 feet to the crown of Our Lady’s statue. The statue above the dome, on which Father Sorin insisted more than on anything else, was given to Notre Dame by St. Mary’s in sympathy for the great loss sustained in the fire of the previous spring.
Gregori Painted Building's Murals
The interior of the great building was furnished in the finest appointments of the time, many of which have stood up under the sixty-eight years of constant wear. Luigi Gregori, the noted Italian artist came to this country from Rome to do the Columbus murals which adorn the front hall of the first floor. Before Gregori began his work the Scholastic noted, “The paintings will be done on fresh mortal- laid on in small pieces. While still moist, the paint penetrates the mortar and the work is made to endure for centuries.” Gregori was assisted by his son. This work was being done when the ground floor, where now are located some of the University offices, housed the armory, refectories and shower rooms, and St. Edward’s, now leaning to leeward, was “new and lacked none of the appointments suggested by experience as useful or desirable.”
The passing of time had gashed the building with the initials of many a student, shaken it by the pounding of many feet, and eroded by the incessant wear of the Indiana elements. Its walls are decorated with pen-knife carrings of generations of would-be wits, many of whom were doubtless determined to leave their marks upon the world somehow. Most
of the homemade etchings are high up on the inside of the dome, made by the select few able to get up there. Much of the wit is poetical. A fairly recent example, from the pen-knife of one T. Rich, of the class of 1940, seems a pla-garism on the old saw about woman’s work:
“When the working man’s ivork is done, The working man is through.
But when the studends work is done, He has more ivork to do.”
On one of the large water tanks tucked away in a dusty alcove on the top floor of the building, a witty wanderer left this bequest to posterity:
“and not only that, but there’s more than enough chasers, too!
John Jerktwinkle, September 32, 1886, Teapot, Maine.”
Dome Still Ungilded
Today, the Main Building looks incongruous among the more modern structures which surround it. It defies being placed into any definite architectural category; unkind critics have called it a Victorian monstrosity. The dome, in need of gilding since before the war, probably will stay that way for some time: it is almost impossible to find a gold-plater and a steeple jack in one and the same person. But despite the inroads of time and the deprecations of a cynical generation, the Administration Building, Notre Dame’s Capitol, will see the ivy on its walls get much, much older.
“The stately pile is a specimen of architectural grandeur without, while within all the graces of art have been observed in a system of modest ornamentation. The interior is lighted by gas and warmed by steam, thus adding safety to comfort, while the ventilation is perfect and supply of pure water abundant.”
Since the time of Sorin the campus
has grown quickly in size as well as in < scope. Unlike most ivy-covered schools, I Notre Dame is a modern college. Nearly! half of all the college buildings have been built within the last 25 years. It is this, more than anything else, that accounts for the dissimilarity of architectural design and conflict of style between the huge, ungainly Main Building and the trim, modern lines of nearby Farley Hall.
The present building was officially dedicated on the 14th of September, 1879. One of the most magnificent college buildings in the country at the time it was built, it has 320 feet of frontage, is 158 feet in depth, and with its 80 foot dome, plus its total height of five stories,
r nr
The first college building had the familiar dome atop it, but with a cross instead of the statue of Our Lady.
15
Philadelphians Honor La+e Lay Trustee
Honoring the memory of the founder of Universal Notre Dame Night and one of the University’s most distinguished alumni, John H. Neeson, the Philadelphia Club of Notre Dame sponsored its second annual Mass and Corporate Communion breakfast last Sunday. Mass was in Sorin Hall Chapel, and the breakfast at 10:30 in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., president of the University, said of Neeson, who at the time of his death in 1945 was a member of the University Board of Lay Trustees, that “he was the personification of everything we hope for in a Notre Dame man. He was, first of all, a Christian gentleman. He was obsessed with the idea of helping others, and, finally, he was one of our most helpful alumni.” He urged the students to carry out these three examples set by the founder of the Philadelphia Club, and to take an interest in Notre Dame affairs even after graduation.
Father Cavanaugh touched upon the actual and proposed growth of the University, and reminded his listeners that, if Notre Dame is to be the best, it is “going to need your participation and support.” He answered those who scoff at the statement that Notre Dame is poor by setting up this simile: “If a man has $50,000 and has nothing to do with it, he is a rich man. If a man has $50,000,000 and needs $100,000,000, then he is poor. If Notre Dame is to do big things, it must think big.”
Armstrong Speaks
The principal speaker on the program, James E. Armstrong, national alumni secretary, seconded Father Cavanaugh’s statements concerning participation in alumni activities. He reminded the Philadelphians that the alumni club from their home town was one of the first in existence, with no small credit due John H. Neeson. “The task of wheeling the alumni club along,” he remarked, “ in the wake of the tremendous growth and development of the University in the past 20 years has not been an easy one. The alumni club, as a matter of fact, is just beginning to exercise its voting privileges.”
He paid tribute to the nine members of the Philadelphia Club who died during World War II, and to Neeson’s 6-year-old grandson, John III, who died last week in Philadelphia.
Other speakers who eulogized Neeson were Joe Boland, WSBT announcer, who is a native of Philadelphia; Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C., another Philadelphian
who is the Club moderator and who celebrated the memorial Mass; Arthur Coughlan, president of the Philadelphia Club, and Joseph Simons, a graduate student from Philadelphia, who acted as toastmaster.
Special guests at the breakfast were John V. Hinkel, Director of the Department of Public Information; John Defant, editor of the Scholastic; John Walker, editor of the Dome, and Jack Miles, staff writer for the South Bend ■Tribune.
Fr. Cavanaugh Feted By Home-Towners
America must rededicate itself to the religious principles of the Declaration of Independence to eliminate present economic, racial and religious tensions, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, said last Monday at a testimonial dinner in his honor in Owosso, Mich., the city where he was born.
Among the 600 who attended were many distinguished persons, including the Catholic bishops of Lansing, Saginaw and Buffalo, the Governor of Michigan, a former governor, several college and university presidents, and other dignitaries. The dinner was held at the parish hall of St. Paul’s Church where Father Cavanaugh was baptized and confirmed, and where he said his first mass after ordination in 1931.
“American thinking must fearlessly get back where it belongs—to its roots,” Father Cavanaugh declared. “Our world leaders seem to be casting about for the sources of order; They need not look further than to this immortal American document that has been the source and inspiration of a government unsurpassed in the history of man.”
The Declaration of Independence in itself, is “a mere piece of paper,” Father Cavanaugh continued, but it must be energized.
“It must be made to live in all our dealings in both private and public life, in government, in business, in the professions, in our plans for the future. We must show in our dealings with one another that the Creator of us all sees and cares about the falling of the sparrow as well as about the gigantic movements of - men. As Benjamin Franklin said at a crucial moment in the Constitutional Convention, when he urged the delegates to pray for success, . If a sparrow cannot fall without God’s knowledge, how can a nation be raised without His aid?’ We must not be too proud to fall on our knees and to pray to this God, for the world faces a crisis in human relations, the like of which it has never known before.”
Michael Gorman, editor of the Flint (Michigan) Journal, presided as toastmaster. Among those who extended greetings to Father Cavanaugh at the dinner were Bishop Joseph H. Albers of Lansing, Mich.; Bishop William J. Murphy of Saginaw, Mich.; Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., of Buffalo, N. Y., and a foi-mer president of the University of Notre Dame; Governor Kim Siegler of Michigan; former Governor Harry Kelly, of Michigan, a Notre Dame alumnus; and Congressman Fred L. Crawford, of the Michigan Congressional District.
Also by Dr. Alexander G. Ruthven, President of the University of Michigan; Dr. John A. Hanna, President of Michigan State College; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who preceded Father Cavanaugh as President of Notre Dame; Mayor J. Edwin Ellis of Owosso, and the Rev. R. Russell Denison, President of the Owosso Ministerial Association and pastor of the First Congregational Church at Owosso.	'
The Congregation of Holy Cross was represented at the dinner- by the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the United States Province of the Congregation. Besides Father O’Donnell, Notre Dame also was represented by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., VicePresident of the University.	*
"NO KISS, TILL YOU BEAT ABMY!"
Phyllis Lynne and Frank Marlowe in one of the hilarious scenes in “Toplit-zky of Notre' Dame,” The George Marion, Jr.-Sammy Fain musical which opened at the Century Theatre in New York last December 26.
16
Ticket Committee Announcement
The text of the statement released this week by the Football Ticket Committee concerning distribution of tickets for 1947 follows:
The 1947 Football Ticket Distribution Plan and stadium allocation for the Army game in particular will be of interest to the student body for several reasons, chief of which are that the present seniors who will receive June degrees may share in alumni preference, and that parents of present underclassmen will be given Army ticket consideration. Obviously, not enough tickets can be earmarked to satisfy all members of each category—there are more than 15,000 Notre Dame alumni alone. However, for the first time in Notre Dame’s history, THERE CAN BE NO PUBLIC SALE OF TICKETS TO THE ARMY GAME. All tickets will go to the Student Body, Parents, Notre Dame alumni, Season-Ticket holders of 1946 record, the Military Academy, and local needs of the University Administration.
Final details for implementing sale to the parents of students have not been determined. THE COOPERATION OF THE STUDENT BODY IS REQUESTED in refraining from inquiries, either verbal or written, to the athletic department concerning the ARMY game. Procedure, when final, will be widely publicized, and parents will receive direct information in due time. 1946 SeasonTicket holders will receive necessary forms and information automatically during the month of June.
For games on the schedule OTHER THAN ARMY, anyone may be added to the mailing list by supplying name, address, and game or games desired. It is pointed out, however, that persons who purchased tickets by mail-order in 1946, are already on our mailing lists. Please aid us in avoiding duplication. Application blanks for these lists will be mailed prior to the opening of the General Public sale on August 1.
Football Ticket Committee
280 January Grads Will Receive Diplomas In June
At the conclusion of last semester ap-. proximately 280 students were graduated from the University of Notre Dame r with the Commerce School topping the " list with more than 100 graduates. While the various formalities of Commence-
Football Ticket Distribution Plan, 1947
Alumni Preference
1.	Alumni in good standing as of June 15, 1947, will be eligible for ticket preference.
2.	Alumni preference blanks for all games will be mailed prior to July 1 only to alumni in good standing. Blanks will carry preference of four tickets per game EXCEPT the Army game which will afford only two tickets, these two tickets intended for the alumnus’ personal use.
3.	Alumni preference sale will open on July 1 and close on July 25.
4.	General public sale will open on August 1, as heretofore, for all games except the Army game, for which no public sale will be possible.
5.	General public blanks will be mailed to all alumni, whether or not in good standing, prior to opening of public sale on August 1. No Army game application will be included and a re-statement of the alumni ticket policy will accompany this mailing.	.
6.	Since for the Army game there will be but 14,000 alumni tickets available, the preference of two tickets to each alumnus cannot be a guarantee (as was the case in 1946) if the total alumni in good standing exceeds 7,000 by the June 15 deadline. For the other games, the alumnus in good standing is reasonably certain of tickets even if the good standing group does surpass 7,000.
7.	Only ONE category will be recognized for ticket priority. Thus, an alumnus who is a season-ticket holder of 1946 record may re-order x his season-tickets but in so doing will thereby relinquish his alumni -priority for home games. Similarly, an alumnus who exercises his alumni preference will not be entitled to the concessions which will be made to parents of students for Army tickets, even though he may be the father of a Notre Dame student or students.
8.	As the season-ticket will include the Army game, season-ticket sales will be frozen at the 1946 figure in order to accommodate the other classes of purchasers. Alumni and others who were season-ticket holders in 1946 may re-order but not increase their 1946 orders.
ARMY GAME ALLOCATION:
Reserved Seat Capacity (Notre Dame Stadium)__________________ 53,468
Alumni (7,000 at 2 tickets each)..?_________________ 14,000
Student Body and Students’ Wives____________________ 5,000
Season-tickets ________________________:____________ 8,000
Parents of Notre Dame Students (geographic limitations tentative) _________________________________ 6,000
West Point Allotment________________________________ 14,000
University (Sub-quotas to be determined for Administration, Faculty, Employees, Community, St. Mary’s, Tress, and Benefactors) 6,468
ment were not held at the mid-year, diplomas to the January class will be awarded in conjunction with the annual Commencement in June. In the meanwhile, graduates may obtain certification of their achievement' from the Director of Studies.
In addition to those graduated from the Commerce School were: Arts and Letters, 84; Physical Education, 4; Science, 20; Engineering, 56; Architecture, 2; Law, 10.
------- 53,468
STUDENT CONFERENCE (Continued from Page 12) older than usual due to the large influx of veterans. -Once the organization was entrusted to a younger group, Sommers maintained, it would either fall apart or become a Communistic football.
Nevertheless, Notre Dame’s student body will be presented numerous opportunities within the next few months to analyze the proposed National Student Organization, and give its .views on the question.—Ed Snyder
17
EIGHT MATCHES REMAIN FOR FENCERS; TOP CINCINNATI. LOSE TO MICH. STATE
By DAVE WARNER
„ By JOE
On Guard! Some literary struggler of the past once scribbled these words of wisdom, “Beneath the rule of men entirely great the pen is mightier than the sword.” This department, instead of deciding which is the mightier of the two, will merely use the pen to reveal something about the sword. In this case the sword is better known as the ancient art of fencing which made its belated debut at Notre Dame in 1934 after the Greeks and Romans kicked the sport around for a few centuries.
Though hardly ever classed as a major sport at any school, fencing, nevertheless, is making a strong comeback here at Notre Dame, so that it may at least hold its own with the minors after taking a breathing spell during the war. r years.
It was Professor Pedro de Landero of Mexico and a former member of Notre Dame’s language department who first introduced the sport in these parts. When he returned south-of-the-border way in 1939, Professor Walter Langford, then also a language prof but now head of the language department, took over the command of the sabre, foil, and epee wielders. Langford’s last season as coach was 1943, which marked the end of a decade of fencing here. In that decade Notre Dame chalked up fifty-seven wins, twenty-five losses, and two ties. Incidentally, Langford still retains his interest in the sport acting as faculty advisor. Current coach is Herb Melton, a drawling, dapper sub-barrister from Paducah, • Ky., who fenced here from 1941 to 1943.
So far- the team has taken on two foes of its seven engagements this season. Two weeks ago the duelers travelled to Cincy and jabbed their way to a win over Cincinnati University. But last Saturday7 night things were back on a fifty-fifty footing after Michigan State’s Spartans took the measure up in East Lansing.
Melton’s squad, though composed mainly of freshmen and sophomore novices, shapes up as a promising outfit. Spearheading the squad are two senior' lettermen, Ventura Gonzalez from Dallas, Tex., and Al Ortiz, hailing from Santa Fe, N. M. The one member who seems destined to break the all-time Notre Dame record for total matches won in a single season is Mike DiCicco from Newark, N. J. Russ Harris set the record back in 1941 with thirty-nine matches; in two engagements DiCicco already has 11%, with Gonzalez right behind him with 8. DiCicco and Gonzalez are what
you might call the triple threat boys of fencing. They7 use all three weapons equally well—the sabre, the foil, and the epee. Other members of the squad are: Lou Burns (foil), Washington, D. C.; Ralph Witucki (foil), South Bend; Gerald Lubin (foil), New York; Jim Jansen (epee), Altoona, Pa.; Pete Gross (epee), Brooklyn, N. Y.; Bob Bossier (sabre), Louisville, Ky7.; Bob Schlosser (sabre), Springfield, Ill.
All home engagements are held in the fencing room of the fieldhouse which is located under the north basketball stands. Following is the remainder of the schedule:
Feb. 7—Ohio State here
14—Northwestern here
21—Marquette there
22—Wisconsin there
Mar. 4—Northwestern there 8—Cincinnati here 15—Culver Mil. Acad, here
Apr. 12—National Intercollegiate at Chicago.
Jim Dugan, Walsh Hall senior, proved A. bit,: to the third-floor skeptics that he wasn’t Is at 1 just tossing the breeze about his running I Neil prowess. A week ago Sunday morning they he and most of the third-floor residents deac walked out to Cartier Field where he ran around the outside of the track 50 BLA times. The last four trips around he jumped hurdles sprinting all the way7.	arc[
His time was 1 hour, 48 minutes. For	p00
those of you who don’t know Jim Dugan anc[ by name, I’m sure you have seen him on an campus carrying a portable radio around	yies
his neck. Jim earned $15 and five blisters befc for his lone journey.	thei
DOC HANDY'S SMILING	The
aga
With such track stars as Bill Leonard, ’ V John Smith, Dave Murphy, Bill Tully, que: George Sullivan, Luke Higgins, Lainy bee Keenen, Terry Brennan, and Johnny Lu- thei jack, naming only a few, back and in Sta shape for the indoor season, track coach ond Doc Handy was all smiles last Saturday all afternoon. Had Bill Leonard, Schenec- eas tady, N. Y., miler, been pressed the least onl
BENGAL ASEHANK
To the devotees of the fight game the inauguration of workouts in the gym above the towel and shirt room in the Fieldhouse is a sign of the approaching Annual University Boxing Championships. This, the 16th edition of the Bengal Bouts, promises to give even the most rabid enthusiast a choice bill of fare. Returning veterans noth the experience of many service bouts under their respective belts will help this year’s Championships soar to even greater heights of campus interest.
Working to make this year’s bouts representative of the best boxing talent on the campus is the Physical Education Department’s Dominic Napolitano. “Nappy,” as he is familiarly hailed, is a master of boxing skills and has a talent for passing them on to likely scrappers. He likes condition and science in his fighters and when the preliminaries roll around on March 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th, the aspirants to fistic fame are going to be ready.
Five weeks remain until the opening night of the Knights of Columbus-sponsored Bengals, and with, this in mind “Coach Nappy” early last week issued
Gus Cifelli, left, and Jack Fallon battle in a heayweight prelim of last year's Bengals. Fallon defeated John Trave in the fi-nalsnals to win the campus heavyweight final.
18
m Uie. PteAA H&X.
WITH LOUISVILLE MASSACRE NOW OVER. IRISH FACE MICH. STATE, WILDCATS
___ By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
By PETE BROWN
ed A. bit, his 4:25 mile might have been cut by r’t Is at least 10 seconds. Jim Murphy and tig | Neil Stylers lapped most of the field as ng - they broke the tape in an intentional its deadlock in the 2-mile run.
he
50 BLANCHARD AND DAVIS
he Army’s touchdown twins, Doc Blanch-D’-	ard and Glenn Davis, and end, Barney
or	Poole, received an about-face command
an	and a few cat-calls in their request for
011	an extra 4-months furlough. Whether-
these athletes will submit resignations -rs	before they graduate is not known but
there is a good chance that they might. The cards seenr to be already stacked against them.
rd, We can see both sides of such a re-ily, quest. The American people have always n-y been sports loving and the majority of m- them wouldn’t care whether the United in States Army had two or three less sec-ich ond lieutenants or not. During the war lay all three players may not have had it ec- easy but at least it was safe. Their ast only battles were on the football fields
IT START TRAINING
A return match with Michigan State here tomorrow night and their initial appearance on one of the Chicago Stadium’s twin-bills on Tuesday night face Moose Krause’s eagers during the next week. Northwestern is their opponent in the Stadium.
The battle tomorrow night with Michigan State will be the local fans first chance to see the basketball team since the slow torture they suffered in Louisville at the hands of Kentucky. The Spartans will come into the game with seven victories and six defeats.
State was riding high going into the first encounter with Notre Dame with a record of six and two, but their 74-56
but their glory was more prominent than John Doe’s, who received the Purple Heart with two or three clusters. On the other hand, put yourself in their places. Would you turn down $30,000 to $60,000 a year without at least making an effort to find out whether or not (Continued on Page 20)
a call to campus fighters for the opening of their conditioning program. The daily work-outs, Nappy insists, are open to any student entertaining ideas of a few rounds in the ring, or perhaps on the canvas. To educate any potential canvas -duster, Nappy holds “class” daily in the gym from three to five.
This expression of Notre Dame’s traditional intra-mural spirit was initiated by the Student Council in 1930 for the benefit of the Holy Cross Bengal Missions, in India. The Scholastic in 1932 acquired the sponsorship, which in 1946 they in turn passed on to the Knights of Columbus.
This year, as in previous tournaments, there will be eight weight divisions, ranging form the crowd-pleasing heavyweights to the shifty 120-pounders. Though caliber and quantity are plenty, don’t listen to the rumor’s fellows; Coach Napolitano is still looking for fighters. Newspaper clippings will not decide who will occupy the opposing corners of the ring at the finals on St. Patrick’s Day, March 17th.—Mike Kiely
defeat by the Irish started their downward trend. Their next three foes, Minnesota, Wisconsin and DePaul, knocked them off. Victories over Georgia Tech. Marquette, and Detroit are the bright spots in their mediocre season.
The height for State is furnished by Center Fred Stone of Chicago, who pushes the 6-6 mark. His best performance of the year was holding Ed Mikan of DePaul to one basket and several free throws. Stone is backed up by forwards Robin Roberts of Springfield, Illinois, and Bob Geahan of Lansing, Michigan. Both are an even six feet tall. In the back court are Don Waldron of Milwaukee and Ollie White of Cleveland. Waldron is -5-11 and White six feet.
This will be the 60th time that Michigan State and Notre Dame have met on the hardwood. The Irish have 42 wins and the Spartans 17 in the 59 games played thus far.
Tuesday night will give the citizens of Chicago their first glance at the 1947 version of Notre Dame basketball. The Irish play Northwestern in the Stadium, which the Western Conference allows to be called the Wildcats home floor because of the lack of seating facilities in Patten Gym in Evanston.
Northwestern started the season with a potentially good quintet, but after their fourth game three of their regulars were declared ineligible because of studies. Even with that handicap, the Wildcats have been able to maintain a .500 average with six wins and the same number of losses. One of the six victores was the surprising upset of the Iowa Cornhusk-ers, 59-40.
During the last few games Coach Dutch Lonborg has been fielding a team of Freshmen Joe Hughes and Jim Barr at forwards, Junior Chuck Tourek and Senior Ben Shadier at guards, and Senior George Felt at center. Felt is supposedly a “Believe It or Not” oddity in present day free scoring basketball. He doesn’t like to shoot. All he wants to do is feed his teammates. In the Iowa game he took only one shot and made it in the 35 minutes he was playing.
As of Kentucky (better should it not have been played) game, John Brennan tops the scoring parade with 150 points. Breathing warmly on-the back of his neck are Kevin O’Shea and Frannie Curran, each with 144. Leo Barnhorst tops the remainder of the field with 119, forty points better than his nearest competitor.
19
Interhall Netters Play League Openers
By BUZZ WRIGHT and JOE DOYLE
Official play in the Interhall Baskethall Leagues was started this week with a full schedule of games being played. Games are played on the west court only in the Rockne Memorial with the east court left open for practice games. In heavyweight division, west campus halls play at 7:15 p. m. and the east campus halls play at 8:00 p. m. Lightweight games are played at 5:00 p. m.
Lyons, interhall football champs, got away to a flying start in basketball as they knocked off Badin, 52-20. However, this game was more a battle of reserve power than anything with Lyons holding only a slim 13-12 lead at halftime. The lads from “Breeezy P” had too much for the St. Ed’s Saints and won handily 37-24. Leon Hart, giant football end, was a big star for the winners, and Bill Michaels was the leading pointgetter for St. Ed’s. Tuesday night, Howard Hall started off in the win column by whipping Alumni 30-14. In the Eastern Division, Walsh outlasted Cavanaugh and won 33-27.
In the lightweight division, Morrissey polished off Zahm 35-25 in the only game played the forepart of the week. Shio-leno starred for the winners with 13 points and Savaske dumped in 11 for the losers. Since there are only a few teams in the lightweight class, the Overflow League will also play at 5:00. The schedule in this league has not been announced but it is hoped that it will be within a few. days.
The schedule for the coming week is as follows:
EASTERN DIVISION—8:00 p. m.
Eri. (Feb. 7).....Sorin	v. Farley
Mon. (Feb. 10).....B. P. v. Zahm Tues. (Feb. 11)—Cavanaugh v. St. Ed’s Wed. (Feb. 12).....Farley v. Walsh Thurs. (Feb. 13)... B.	P. v. Sorin
WESTERN DIVISION—7:15 p. m.
Fri. (Feb. 7)---Howard v. Dillon Mon. Feb. 10)---.Lyons v. Morrissey Wed. (Feb. 12)--Howard v. Badin
LIGHTWEIGHTS—5:00 p. m.
Fri. (Feb. 7)---Zahm v. Cavanaugh Mon. (Feb. 10)--Morrissey v. B. P. Wed. (Feb. 12)--Zahm v-B. P.
1947 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
The 1947 Notre Dame football schedule was announced this week by Director of Athletics Frank W. Leahy. The schedule, commencing on Oct 4. includes four home games and is featured by the appearance of Army at the local stadium on Nov. 8. An open date on Nov. 29 precedes the season's windup at Southern California on Dec. 6.
Following is the schedule:
Oct. 4—Notre Dame at Pittsburgh.
Oct. 11—Notre Dame at Purdue.
Oct 18—Nebraska at Notre Dame.
Oct 25—Iowa at Notre Dame.
Nov. 1—Notre Dame and Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 8—Army at Notre Dame.
Nov. 15—Notre Dame at Northwestern.
Nov. 22—Tulane at Notre Dame.
Dec. 6—Notre Dame at
Southern California.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 19) you could cash in on your name while it was still “box-office”?
Another point which the majority of the American people didn’t know was that during the war Congressmen were asked by both West Point and Annapolis to give greater consideration to athletes, particularly football players, when they made their appointments to both schools. It looks as if that kind of strategy has suddenly backfired. And as far as Doc Blanchard is concerned, he spent almost 2 years in the army before he received his appointment to the Point.

WILDCATS WENT WILD
The Wildcats of Kentucky hogged the ball on both backboards to hang up a decisive 60 to 30 win over Coach Krause’s Fighting Five. Notre Dame has found itself getting off to a slow start before this season but Saturday night someone lost the ignition key. The whole story
lies in the fact that the Irish took 59 shots at the basket and missed 50 times for an all-time low percentage of .153. A couple of Ralphs—Beard and Groza— scored 37 points between them to enhance their All-America chances.
❖
HERE'N THERE
Larry Kosikowski, Frank’s brother, made All-Conference tackle last season while playing for Cudahy High in Milwaukee. He stands 6'-2" and hits the scales at 200. Larry will be 18 in March and graduates in June . . . Richie Nie-mara, star forward under the late George Keogan, took off last Sunday for Toledo where he sparked Ft. Wayne to a 51-41 victory over Toledo. Frank Gilhooley signed up with Toledo but didn’t get into the game. Another Notre Dame hoopster, George Sobek, has been tossing them in consistently for Toledo all season . . . The best sport magazine to hit the stands in a long time is Sport. Terrific! . . . The high salaries being paid to untried college football players who have signed to play for pay next season are going to cause a lot of hard feelings among the veteran pros. Some of them have been first-string players for two and three seasons but their pay checks don’t compare with the salaries of the new players. The two conferences had better get together soon or there will be a civil war in the football ranks . . . George Connor hasn’t bought me an ice cream cone since I suggested that he be used when the basketball games get rough. Sorry, George! . . . The fencing team, under the watchful eye of Herb Melton, has split two decisions thus far . . . John Yonakor, All-America end and member of the championship Cleveland Browns, is back this semester to complete his education. He has nothing but compliments for his present coach, Paul Brown. . . . The University of Michigan has scheduled a southern trip for its baseball team. The first game is on April 4th against Maryland. They play seven games with teams in North Carolina, Maryland and Virginia within the following eight days.
♦
WRONG "FRITZ"
Fritz Crisler, head football coach at Michigan, received a letter last week offering for sale an original violin of a famous make made in 1738. The writer said that he wanted only Crisler to have it, “as only you could appreciate its rare craftsmanship and wonderful tone.” Coach Crisler’s secretary was \stumped until she found violinist Kreisler’s address and forwarded it with a'note saying that it had been misdirected. Crisler’s real name is Herbert Orin Crisler but he was dubbed “Fritz” by Amos
20
Alonzo Stagg, the grand old man of football, during his playing days at the University of Chicago.
♦
DEFINITION OF AMATEURISM
The National Collegiate Athletic Association at its New York meeting defined the principle of amateurism as follows: “An amateur sportsman is one who engages in sports for the physical, mental, or social benefits he derives therefrom, and to whom the sport is an avocation. Any college athlete who takes pay for participation in athletics does not meet this definition of an amateur.” Wonder-how many colleges will pay any attention to this definition.
8 Records Broken In ND-Purdue Meet
Notre Dame’s track team gave hint of its potential power as the Irish crushed Purdue 65% to 38% in the first indoor meet of the season before a capacity crowd in the Fieldhouse last Saturday. Eight new meet records were set and another was tied in the second indoor meeting between the two Indiana schools.
The Irish will travel to East Lansing to take part in the Michigan State Relays tomorrow. The next home meet will be a triangular meet between Marquette, Michigan Normal, and Notre Dame on Saturday, Feb. 15.
Captain John Smith of Notre Dame was the outstanding individual performer of the meet, winning both the high and low hurdles in record time. The time in the 60-yard high hurdles (7.5 seconds) equalled the all-time Notre Dame indoor mark. Dave Murphy, veteran quarter-miler, was also a high point getter, setting a new record in his specialty, finishing second in the 60-yard dash, and anchoring a winning mile relay team. George Sullivan and Luke Higgins finished first and second, respectively in the shotput with Sullivan’s 49'-%" heave being a new record. Acemiler Bill Leonard coasted to a 4.25-mile victory for another record, and Bill Tully set a new half-mile mark.
Jim Murphy and Neil Styers, Notre Dame’s crack distance duo, finished in an intentional tie for first after lapping almost the entire field.
Terry Brennan, the football star, and Busby of Purdue tied the meet record of 12'-6" in the pole vault. The Boilermakers established one new record when Miller topped the field with a leap of 22-11 %" in the broad jump. Purdue also won the 60-yard dash and the high jump.
« Keenan, Lujack, Bill Smith, Sabota,
INTRODUCING
By BOB LEANDER
With the name Kevin Christopher “K. C.” O’Shea, he can’t fake his lineage, but he can certainly set the hostile forces back on their heels with a brand of hindu fakery, the likes of which has never* before been seen in these parts. A master of the West Coast’s beat-your-man technique, and quickly becoming adept at the Middle West’s fast break, Casey has been headed for Notre Dame as long as his father can remember. The elder O’Shea, a rabid Irish rooter, wanted his son to matriculate here, and after hearing of his talents the local coaching staff more than matched his proud fath-ex-’s enthusiasm. For out in San Francisco kinky-haired Casey put on an exhibition second only to the Big Quake. He set a bomb under previous scoring records which, though it never went off, caused hectic excitement. The last game of his senior season was approaching and the record books showed him only ten points shy of eclipsing the existing mark. However, there was a flu epidemic running rampant in sunny California and an ill-timed 104-degree temperature shelved both O’Shea and his bid for the record. Recovering from this illness he rejoined his St. Ignatius outfit and captained them to the post-season San Francisco City Championship.
Entered Service in 1943
Following his graduation in June, 1943, Casey attempted to enter Notre Dame. After trekking here from the Coast, he applied for admission in the Naval V-12 unit, but was rejected fox’ an overbite which would obviously interfere with his eating and which already had kept his weight down to a scrawny 187 pounds. Realizing that his stay here would consequently be of short duration, the emaciated O’Shea boarded the next train for California and enlisted in the Coast Guard. Upon learning of his athletic prowess, this organization put him back into his hardwood act under the banner of the Alameda Coast Guard Station. Sharp-eyed Kevin, they reasoned, guarded forwards better than the rest of them guarded coasts so the Pa-
McDavid, Strable, Miller, and Espenan were other* Notre Dame men who contributed points to the victory.
Coach Handy said the team performed as he expected, but that they have a long way to go before they hit their peak. This yearis squad is very strong, especially in the middle distances, hurdles, and distance runs.	—Jim Hoivard
Kwia Q'Skea
cific Coast again resounded with the staccato tempo of O’Shea’s basketball and Western fans were treated to some of the finest and fanciest play since the reign of Stanford’s All-American, Hank Luisetti.
It was, incidentally, from this same Luisetti that Casey learned many of the game’s finer points. Out on the Coast the Sunday afternoon school-yard scrimmages often surpass anything that takes place in the gyms and stadia on Saturday night, for in these games all the present, past and future “greats” jump center in what amounts to informal All-Star games. Luisetti never misses an opportunity to participate in these scrambles, acting as a player-coach, and so even after his collegiate days were written into the annals he contributes more to the game of basketball than he did at the height of his varsity greatness with the Indians. As evidence— Kevin O’Shea.
Averaging 11 Points a Game
Having wandered far afield, we return to the topic of Alameda and find that Sl/c O’Shea and his team captured three champioxxships, those of the Northern California Basketball League, -the California AAU, and the Northern Navy League. While wearing the “blue” he averaged ten points a game and added more polish and sparkle to his ball-handling. After three yeax-s in bell-bottoms he was discharged and finally succeeded in crashing through the Registrar’s Iron Curtain.
At present Casey is averaging 11 and 82; the former for Moose Krause and the latter for the Director of Studies. Combining daily scrimmages, road trips and a stiff accounting course means that he’ll have to do a lot of hustling to maintain those averages, but hustling is nothing new for the California curly-head. In high school he won three letters for basketball and three for baseball, receiving All-City acclaim in both sports. He played on four championship ball clubs and inside the next four years should add several more to that list. As fast as the backboards are secured this Spring, Jake Kline will amble out on the diamond to find Casey at the bat, for there is nothing the amiable six-footer would like better than nailing down the third-base spot in the Irish infield. And the amazing part of it is— this clown is actually Irish.
"Family Theatre" Broadcast Features Loretta Young, James Stewart, Cotten
On February 13, at 8 p. m., C.S.T., a new radio show, starring in its first broadcast Loretta Young and Joseph Cotten, with James Stewart as master of ceremonies, will make its debut. Broadcast by the Mutual Network on a coast to coast hookup, “The Family Theatre,” inspired by the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., of Albany, New York, is a new venture in radio. Described as the ■“modern day apostolate of family prayer,” and starring top-notch Hollywood stars, the program is based on Father Peyton’s conviction that there is at the present time a desperate need for family prayer, and to the achievement of this end the program will be dedicated.
“A salesman on the road for Our Lady,” is Father Peyton’s description of himself. The six-foot-four, thirty-ish priest has undertaken, in this unpraying age, to persuade 10,000,000 families to recite the daily rosary. To this end he lias enlisted the aid of cardinals, bishops, laymen, and a host of the brightest stars in Hollywood’s galaxy.
His keynote is simplicity. Born into a poor family in County Mayo, Eire, thirty some years ago, he has a simple faith, plus a God-given gift of salesmanship, which has already persuaded over a million families to recite the rosary daily. When he speaks of the Blessed Virgin, it is as though he knows her personally; not with a gifted eloquence, but with a direct simplicity which seems somehow rather more than human, and which makes refusal of his request more than difficult.
The driving force behind Father Peyton is a promise to Mary to bring 10,000000 families to her feet daily in thanksgiving for her graciousness in curing him suddenly of an advanced case of tuberculosis.
Back in County Mayo, the rosary was recited daily in the Peyton cottage. As lie worked in the Irish fields in his boyhood and adolescence, Father Peyton felt that he was called to the priesthood. He hesitated, and it was only after he came to America that he entered the Holy Cross novitiate at Notre Dame, principally because his sister, Nellie, had entered a convent with the intention that
her brothers might become priests. So finally Father Peyton quit the coal mines of Pennsylvania and started his studies at the Cathedral in Scranton, from whence he came to Moreau Seminary. He was followed shortly after by his brother Tom.
Before his ordination, his studies had been interrupted by a case of severe, advanced tuberculosis. X-rays showed that the only possible remedy was to remove part of his ribs and collapse the lung, to which suggestion Father Peyton did not take kindly. A priest who was visiting him suggested that he appeal to Mary. “I have asked her,” said Father Peyton, “and I think that this is her way of answering. I think the operation will make me well.”
“Nonsense,” said the priest, “She can do better than breaking your back to cure you. Talk to her, man, talk to her. She’s a woman, and she loves it!”
And talk to her Patrick Peyton did. In a day or two, he left his bed, and blandly told the doctors that he was sure he
Father Peyton looks on as June Haver signs a "Family Theatre" radio contract. She is one of many Hollywood stars who will appear on the program.
was well. The doctors took a dim view of his optimism, but an X-ray finally taken by another physician, showed no trace of tuberculosis.
But Patrick had lost valuable time in the hospital. His brother was about to be ordained; he wanted to be ordained with him. Again he turned to Mary, and again she answered him: a special dispensation arrived from Rome in time for the ordination ceremonies.
Father Peyton wanted to thank Mary for all that she had done for him. He wanted to crusade for daily Mass and Communion. But the conviction grew upon him that he must go about such things slowly; it would be better to start with the Rosary. Father Peyton, with the permission of his superior, launched the Family Rosary Crusade. In the four-years which have passed since he sent out his first letter with a borrowed stamp, he has published and mailed millions of pamphlets, has travelled all overtire country, and has spent thousands of
22
dollars. He depends upon the Son of God to send the money in his Mother’s interest: somehow He does so.
Things happen to Father Peyton which cannot be explained by the long arm of coincidence. In the winter of 1944-45 he conceived a plan for a nation-wide radio Rosary broadcast. To dramatize it adequately, he secured the services of the Sullivan family, of Waterloo, Iowa, who had lost five sons in the sinking of a warship in the Pacific. His program was planned by a Protestant stationowner who concentrated his entire organization on the project, despite the fact that his own child was seriously ill, so seriously that she had been given up by the doctors. The child recovered. Father Peyton says simply, “Our Lady made her well. Our Lady is the most cultured woman in the world. She nevei- forgets those who do something for her.” The program went on the air, through the help of a Jewish woman radio executive. The broadcast was scheduled for May 13, 1945. Something that was more than coincidence focused attention on that day. That Sunday, Mother’s Day—and World Sodality Day—was proclaimed a double national day of thanksgiving to God for victory and the end of the war in Europe. That day was also the anniversary of the consecration of the United States to the Blessed Virgin in 1848, the anniversary of the first appearance of Our Lady of Fatima to the Portugese children in 1917, and -the feast of St. Robert Bellarmine. The response from radio listeners was tremendous. Father Peyton had made a deep impression upon America.
When Father Peyton approached the great radio orator, Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen and asked him to do something on his program for the Rosary, Msgr. Sheen said he had wanted to offer his listeners free rosaries for some time, but that he hadn’t been able to gather enough rosaries to answer an anticipated demand for 10,000. Father Peyton worked, prayed, and gave Msgr Sheen 12,000. The demand mushroomed to 50,000, the largest response to a program Msgr. Sheen had ever had.
For some time Father Peyton played with what Hollywood would call a “stupendous, collosal, gigantic idea.” He mentioned it to a radio executive; he told the executive he wanted a half-hour evening spot every week on a national network for his continuous rosary broadcast. The radio executive pooh-poohed the idea. Father Peyton persisted. “Supposing,” he said, “I were to get fifty of the biggest movie stars in the country to agree to dramatize the mysteries of the Rosary—the life of Christ and His Mother, with prayer as the background?”
The executive had not heard of anything so super-collosal in his electrifying life. Said he, “If you can do that, I’ll either get you the radio time or retire from business.”
While Father Peyton was making up his mind whether to go to Los Angeles or not, a young nun came to him one day. She had plane reservations for him—the ones he had asked the Mother Superior to get for him. He protested that he did not ask her; he did not even know her. But “somebody” had called the Mother Su- -perior informing her that Father Peyton wanted to go to Los Angeles. In spite of war-time difficulties, the nuns secured the reservations. Father Peyton went to Los Angeles.
Once in Los Angeles, and not knowing where to turn, he told his cabbie to let him out at the first church. The cabbie passed the first church, let him out at the second. Through the efforts of a priest whom he met there, Father Peyton found himself the next Sunday preaching in a church attended by many movie stars. After each sermon, he waited in the sanctuary, and the stars came to him.
Many first-rate stars, impressed by Father Peyton’s sincerity and his love of God and Mary, put their names to a contract. They promised, for the glory of God and the peace of the world, to help promote the family rosary. Frank Sinatra asked to get on the program, and signed the contract mailed to him.
Father Peyton went back to New York and got his radio time. He is now assured of at least twenty-six broadcasts. He wants his program to appeal not only to Catholics, but to all men of good will. The credit for the idea probably goes to Bing Crosby who, through his appearance on the Mother’s Day program with the Sullivans and Cardinal Spellman, put the big plan into Father Peyton’s head.
The script for the Feb. 13 broadcast will be “Flight From Home,” written by True Boardman. The music will be directed and composed by Meredith Willson, top-notch Hollywood orchestra leader. The director for the first program will be Dee Engelbach. Production details will be under the direction of Bob Longenecker, radio head of the San Jaffe Agency.
To be heard on the program in the next few weeks are such Hollywood headliners as Don Ameche, Charles Boyer, Joe E. Brown, Charles Bickford, Jeanne Crain, Irene Dunn, Dennis Day, Fibber McGee and Molly, Barry Fitzgerald, William Gargan, Ruth Hussey, Frank McHugh, Pat O’Brien, and Gregory Peck.
Nobody who knows Father Peyton doubts that the program will succeed. He knows that “the only hope in America we have for peace in our hearts and our homes is to get Mary to go to God and say ‘I love America. I want peace in America.’ The surest way is to let her look down and see you kneeling ten minutes a day saying her rosary.”
German Army Observer to Tell of Belgium Blitz
Mr. Robert Duncan Brown of the His-toi-y Department will speak of his personal experiences during the German blitzkrieg into Belgium, next Tuesday evening at 8 in the Law Auditorium. Professor Brown, who held the rank of colonel in the regular army until his retirement last fall, was military attache at the American embassy at Brussels and United States military observer with the German Army during the May, 1940 invasion. His account, which he gave to the faculty of the Department before Christmas, will be repeated at the reqfiest of those who were unable to hear him on the earlier occasion and who are desirous of hearing his very interesting story of the invasion.
Colonel Brown clearly brings to his subject a wide knowledge and experience in modern European military and political history. Although he was graduated originally from the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, he served overseas in World War I as an officer in the U. '9. Army. He remained in the Army after that war and in preparation for his work with the Intelligence Division of the Army, was graduated from the Ecole Superieure de Guerre of France; the Army War College and the General Staff School in this country. He was also for a time, a special student at the Sorbonne. He has served as special observer for the United States with several European • armies and as military attache at the American embassies in Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, and Luxembourg.
Beginning in September, 1947, Colonel Brown will offer special courses in the political and military history of World Wars I and II.
VETS TO CLOG POLLS
The Veteran’s Club will hold its semester election of officers, Tuesday, Feb. 11, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building, it was announced this week by retiring president, Joe Dillon. The meeting is slated to begin at 7:30 p. m.
23
"GONE ARE THE OLD FAMILIAR FACES"
By THOMAS MULVEY
After three years away from Notre Dame one would expect some sort of physical change to have taken place by the time you returned, but no, the old place is still the same with the exception of one thing—the lack of old buddies of ’41, ’42 and ’43.
To a person returning to the campus after a short sojourn in our glorious armed forces, it is remarkable the way things come back. All the old instincts and mannerisms are revived (to say nothing of old clothes) and once again you get that Notre Dame feeling. The eager wait from Monday to Saturday for the football game; then feeling sorry when Saturday came, for Monday rolled around quite fast; dashing out of your respective rooms to get on the line for a midnight, and then at 11:50 p.m. galloping like mad across the grounds to get in at that specified time; always waiting for that first bell in the morning knowing that you are unprepared; all these things return as though you were only back from a short weekend.
The Dome is still gleaming despite its tarnished splendor, the “Rock” never loses its massive sturdiness even after these years you’ve been away. Nothing has changed, yet there is something lacking. Certainly there are as many students, in fact more now than when you left, but the few that you Know is really surprising. No more walking down the
For 25 per cent Discount on all Garments Cleaned and Pressed
Bring this Coupon in exchange for your Student Identification Card to
BERT CLEANERS AND DYERS
222 W. WASHINGTON 3-HOUR SERVICE PHONE 3-5488
— PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT —
ITALIAN KITCHEN
220 W. Washington	Phone 3-0925
SPAGHETTI with NEAPOLITAN SAUCE RAVIOLI	PIZZA (made to order)
STEAKS	CHOPS
path in the quadrangle, joking and catcalling with almost every guy that passed by; it seems now that the old gang had all deserted.
As you go into the local metropolis, you discover that the scene looks the same. The same old houses and stores. The fire house and the bridge are all passed and everything is in place, yet you are still looking for faces, more familiar faces, but none are to be found— South Bend is just as you found tne campus. You begin asking yourself, “Where the heck is Tex, Moose or Bill?” You find out Ed, Jack and Pete are al) married and doing nicely; Red and Tom are hard-working men and dragging down nice money, and a few of the other boys are still gadding about various colleges getting Master’s degrees and taking P.G. courses. Most of the boys have gone out into larger pastures for themselves and some of the others who weren’t so lucky, greener grounds also —those faces we know won’t return to Notre Dame.
Now you see that these three years were quite a bit more important than you first realized. You’re back now, a couple of years older ana a couple of years wiser; no more fooling around, for you know it’s your last chance to get what you started out for in ’41 or ’42. So it’s to the books, for the old gang is finished; let the new gang take over.
FOR ALL OCCASIONS —Purchases gift wrapped free of charge.
BLOCK BROS.
CG = MICHIGAN i WASHINGTON
Specialising in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
' •
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY -
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
- PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-529 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Indi
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574

tder
Corduroy
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN A WASHINGTON
There’s plenty of style and comfort in these rough Rider Corduroys— wear them with your sport jackets and sweaters. In covert, natural and brown.
For Trouser Comfort and Stylo WEAI CALIFOINU'S FAMIK
25
Villagers to Fete Basketball Squad
The Notre Dame Villagers are on the long road back to the prestige they enjoyed during the prewar era. Until the wartime program’s inception here at Notre Dame one of the most active clubs at the University, the Villagers fell by the wayside during the war years, both in activities and in membership.
Now, however, things are brightening perceptibly. A competent group of officers and an efficient executive board are guiding the club along Renaissance Road. Membership has swelled, and meetings are being better attended. Almost 300 students are eligible for admittance into the club’s ranks, making it potentially the largest city club at Notre Dame.
A program of activities has been planned and is being carried out. On Tuesday, April 1, at the Indiana Club, the Villagers will sponsor their annual testimonial dinner for the Irish basketball team, which had been discontinued since 1942 because of the war. Six days later, on the day after Easter, April 7, the Villagers’ spring formal will be held in the Palais Royale in South Bend, with a name band furnishing the music.
Club meetings are on the first Wednesday of every month in the Law auditorium. Any South Bend or Mishawaka student who has not yet enrolled may do so at the meetings, which are at 6:45.
British Schools Offer Summer Session In '47
Graduates of American colleges wall be afforded the opportunity of attending three of Great Britain’s foremost universities during the summer of 1947. Anyone who is an American graduate with at least an A.B. degree and who has a special interest in the courses offered may apply for admission to any one of the universities.
At the University of Oxford, courses will be offered in Philosophy, Economics, and English Literature during the six-weeks period from July 2-August 13. Aberdeen University will offer courses in History, Economics, and Education from July 7-August 19. From July 5 to August 16, the University of Birmingham will give a course on English Literature at Stratford-on-Avon.
Further information as to costs, transportation, and application forms may be had by applying to the Director, Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York City. Applications must be received by March 15.
26
Biologist Lectures Western Colleges on ND Research
Results of recent important research in germ-free life, nutrition and infectious diseases at the Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND), University of Notre Dame, will be described by Dr. James A. Reyniers, Director of the Laboratories, in lectures at several leading far western universities which started Feb. 4 and wall extend through Feb. 15.
Dr. Reyniers, according to tentative plans, will lecture at the University of California, Stanford University and the
Class of 1893	Class of 1947
The American college man’s collar bore the famous Arrow label. Today, if you buy any product — shirt, tie, sports shirt, underwear or handkerchief
that bears the
R R O W SHIRTS* SANfORISSf
YOUR NAME and ADDRESS
COMO... MKNMN f MflMMM
University of Southern California, and probably at several other schools. He also will conduct seminars on the same subjects at those institutions.
Dr. Reyniers is a renowned authority on germ-free life studies in which he pioneered at Notre Dame using mice, rabbits and other animals in research that has attracted much attention among scientists. Outsanding results in micrurgy, or the micro-surgery of bacterial cells, and in biological engineering—the control of airborne infections, etc.—also have been achieved by Dr. Reyniers in the Notre Dame laboratories.
it still means
SHIRTS—	"
add AUTHENTIC COLLEGE STYLES
FINE WOVEN FABRICS
M/TOGA SHAPED BODY
SANFORIZED LABEL
(meaning less than /% fabric shrinkage)
WORLD FAMOUS COLLAR MODELS
ANCHORED BUTTONS
REASONABLE PRICES
and you get.. ARROW SHIRTS
The overwhelming favorite shirts of U. S. college men for looks, wearability and price.
The Gordon Oxford (button down and plain)
Arrow Sussex
ARROW
>
SHIRTS
SANFORIZED
Look for these famous models at your favorite Arrow store.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES !
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS I
It's Adler's for ARROWS
«m OMCK... MKMtAM ( MSMMM
Bigger, Better Huddle Opens (In Three Weeks?)
Difficulty in securing materials for . a new floor has held up work on the Huddle and is the reason for the delay in reopening the popular student hangout, according to David Ford, in charge of campus concessions. A Chicago firm has so far been unable to supply the necessary materials, but Mr. Ford stated that the Huddle would probably be open for business in about three weeks.
Extensive repairs and remodeling were begun on the Huddle during the Christmas vacation, and the new Huddle will take over the entire first floor, including the space formerly occupied by the shoe repair shop and Western Union.
When the Huddle finally opens its doors and Notre Dame men again cross its threshold for their cokes and milk shakes some of the major improvements then in evidence will be a sound-proof ceiling, a new floor, and two 30-foot soda fountains. Another innovation will be the breaking down of merchandise into types with a separate counter for each type. The interior of the Huddle will also be decked out in a new coat of paint.
According to Mr. Ford, the Huddle is being remodeled for the purpose of gaining more space and making the interior more presentable rather than the adding of new features. Campus rumors have had the Huddle being turned into everything from a miniature Macey’s to a night club. Another popular rumor was squashed when Mr. Ford stated that no telephones would be installed for student use.
In the past, three full-time employees worked in the Huddle but this number will be increased in the near future.
—John Waters
Father Putz Calls Men for International Affairs Club
A group of students interested in forming an organization for the investigation and discussion of international affairs will meet in Room 3 of the Law Building at 7:15 p. m., Monday, Feb. 10.
This Student International Affairs Club will be under the guidance of Father Louis Putz who last summer attended the World Student Conferences at Prague, Czechoslovakia, and Fribourg, Switzerland.
It is contemplated that after a topic had been formulated and discussed by the club, it will be presented in open forum to the entire student body in a subsequent meeting. ‘
All students interested in participating in this organization are invited to attend the meeting Monday night.
27
The Review By JIM LARRICK
JAZZ
Somewhere in the past of American native music there is the bridge that crosses and unites folk music and that which we call jazz. Far back in the swamps of Georgia and Florida, deep in the hills of the Ozarks, along every concrete highway in the South, there have been heard the monotonous and hypnotic rhythms of Africa. On the prison farms and the road-gangs in Dixie you can still hear real American folk music when the Negro convicts are put away for the night. The rhythm is still there but a strange mixture of English Balladry, Cajun French words and Congo drums have been mixed together' into a new world of expression.
One of the greatest reservoirs of this type of extemporaneous music is a fellow by the name of Leadbelly. He has spent most of his life in jail, for one reason or another, and during that time has stored up literally thousands of Laments, Ballads and Blues.
Leadbelly is the gap between folk music and jazz (a la Waller, Condon, Butterfield) and the way he handles his twelvestring guitar is something to hear and
remember. He has recorded, mostly for Asch, several albums of Sinful Songs, which have given him a justly due reputation.
Leadbelly was found—and got out of jail—by the Lummox father-and-son team several years ago when they were touring the United States, hunting down folk music for the Library of Congress. Since that time he has become one of the most famous figures in American native music. The only big draw-back is that, even though he knows most every song, ' he sometimes forgets all the verses and makes up his own.
But, getting back to the connection between Folk music and Jazz, Leadbelly has been influenced by Memphis and New Orleans music and syncopation sometimes slips into his music. This makes him, it seems, the bridge between the two. In Volume I of The History of Jazz, Leadbelly has recorded a song called The Rock Island Line. If Crosby and the Andrews Sisters only knew it, along with the Rock Island Railroad, they’re missing a sure Hit-Parade first by not recording that number. As cats say, “It’s hep. It’s solid.”
While we’re speaking of Jazz, here are some good recordings (some new, some old) by two of the Queens of Jazzdom. Mildred Bailey has a new disc out by Majestic called Til Close My Eyes with Ellis Larkins conducting. Billie Holiday with her superb accompaniment has pressed for Decca, You’d Better Go Now and No Good Man. Both of these Artists (printer—capital “A,” please) have unusual styles and you might not like them so very well when you hear them for the first time, but just give yourself time and you’ll put your name down on the waiting list for their hard-to-get recordings.
While you’re in the booth, listen to two other good Blues singers, Bessie Smith, whose recordings have just been re-released, and Stella Brooks.
CLASSICS
While you’re at your favorite music store, listen to the new recording of Carmen. Everyone seems to have the spirit and shouts their lungs out to back up Swarthout as the swivel-hipped Carmen. (Victor M1078, $6.85).
Decca has something called Full Frequency Range Recording (FFRR, for short) that produces some of the finest, clearest tones I’ve heard in a long time. Delibes Sylvia comes through with a min
Coverts, Gabardines, Flannels, Shetlands, Unfinished Wor-
From which you may select new spring suits,
sted
sport coats and top coats.
Deliveries are improving. We are confident that orders placed within ten days will be ready for Easter.
We are pleased to announce that we are now prepared to show you several hundred new spring patterns.....
From our ready-to-wear . . . Adler Rochester suits, coats and trousers. You can be assured of the best in ready-made garments.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc
115yz-117y2 North Main Street . . Upstairs
28
imuni of scratch and without distortion.
The Indianapolis Symphony has recorded beautifully Grieg’s Symphonic Dances, Opus 64 with Sevitzky conducting. Columbia has been doing some terrible recording of late. Recently they gave Mozart a working over with th^ Robin Hood Dell Orchestra. Mitropoulos conducted and Vronsky and Babin sat in at the pianos. All of this gets us a very-poor Concerto K.265. The orchestra sounds like a dirge and the pianos have occasional fits, due probably to poor recording. (628, $3.85).
SOPH COTILLION (Continued from Page 9) who do not hold tickets will have to sweat out the regular 7:30 ticket lines or listen to the canned version over station WHOT.
Reports from downtown hotels indicate many of the cotillionites will be from other states. Some coming from as far
COTILLION SEATING SECTION
The entire North Bleachers, seating 600, will be reserved for the 300 Sophomores, with their guests, who purchased the general admission tickets with Cotillion bids. The sophomore’s athletic book, together with the RED STRIP TICKET purchased will admit these 300 couples to that section. THESE COUPLES ARE TO USE THE NORTH ENTRANCE ONLY in order to be seated in this reserved section.
All other students will please use the SOUTH ENTRANCE only, and are asked to be in their seats by 7:30 p. m.
as California, Maine and New York just to shuffle about the cavernous Palais Royale dance emporium. The Oliver Hotel reports a full house; 125 rooms were reserved by the Sophomore class well in advance to facilitate the over-nighters.
Credit for the success of the weekend’s festivities goes to Terry Brennan, Bill Murtagh, Bob Leander, Frank Baker, Miles Quail, Frank Vitori, Jim Martin and Pete Brown, who all worked arduously at making the cotillion a gala event.
REGISTRATION
(Continued from Page 9) bolstering that department’s total to 240 students.
The completion of Farley Hall and many of the housing units for married vets has greatly alleviated living conditions. The outlook for the spring semester appears most hopeful. Now, if only the weather would make up its mind?
Father Cavanaugh Appointed to Navy Selection Board
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, has been invited to serve on the Indiana state selection board of members in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps and the Naval Aviation College program.
The state selection board will be comprised of a naval officer, a prominent educator and a prominent business or professional man. This board will consider candidates for admittance to the naval college programs who have obtained the highest scores in a recent competitive examination and who also have passed their physical examination. The board will select those best qualified for enrollment in the naval programs in the fall of 1947.
A total of 45,000 civilian students have applied for enrollment in the N.R.O.T.C. and the Naval Aviation College Programs for next fall.
PRESS CLUB TO MEET
There will be a meeting of the Press Club on Tuesday evening, February 11th, at 7:30 p. m., in Room 103 in the Law Building. Election of officers will be held. Mr. J. V. Hinkel will be the guest speaker.
Heart-fluttering Fragrances for Your Valentine
by Helena Rubinstein
APPLE BLOSSOM . . . delicate fragrance.
Cologne 1.00; Toilette Water 1.75; Perfume 1.00 to 1.75
HEAVEN SENT . . . Angelic fragrance.
Toilette Water 1.00 to 3.25; Perfume 1.00 to 7.50
WHITE FLAME . . . exciting fragrance.
Toilette Water 5.50; Perfume 2.50 to 18.50
Prices plus tax
Cosmetics . . . Main Floor

“Not too much time to get those VALENTINES in the mail —”
GET THEM
At the BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall '
29
CAMPUS CLUBS
By BOB VIERHILE
SIGNS OF THE TIMES:
Hall rectors assigning- required reading in the historic student manual. . . . Somebody denouncing soapboxer Zyg-mont Czarobski as a “wolf in cheap clothing.” . .. Notable absence: the usual revival of the old favorite, “Knute Rockne, All American.” ... A slip-up in the high command.
VETS ONLY:
From an “unimpeachable” source we have learned that Uncle Sam is about ready to open his tattered wallet a little wider in behalf of the 2,000,000 veterans enrolled in colleges and universities. Mrs. Edith Nourse Rogers, a Republican from Massachusetts who believes budget-cutting should be left to housewives, has introduced a bill in congress that will increase government subsistence allow
Flowers for ValeHluwi ^bci4f and all occasions
WIRED ANYWHERE OR DELIVERED
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
114 South Michigan Street	' Phone 3-8227
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at the
ances from the current starvation level to $100 monthly for single and $125 monthly for married vets. Also on the list to get a shot of government serum are veteran earning ceilings. If passed, the proposal will boost side-job earnings to $250 for single men, $300 for those with one dependent and $350 for those having two or more dependents. The bill is an odds-on-favorite to become law as it is being co-sponsored by the American Legion, VFW, Amvets and many lesser organizations.
Campus vets have found the current $65 and $90 government fares as inadequate as a bathing suit in a snow storm. No matter how you add, subtract or multiply, the present government subsistence allowance only makes a scratch on the surface of abnormally high living costs. Last semester there
was a constant migration of veterans from campus dorms to off-campus abodes Many of these students preferred living in South Bend and eating “short” rations to dipping into theii’ bank accounts, if they had any, in order to make the foose ends meets. An additional allowance of $35 per veteran, whether married or single, would do much to alleviate this often disgusting situation.
REBEL RUNDOWN:
The latest “dope” (present company excepted) is that the Rebel club will hold a pre-Lenten Mardi Gras dance on February 15th at the Erskine Country Club. Bids: $3.00. Music: Notre Dame Cavaliers. Yankees interested in attending the affair should contact one of the following: Bill Slavick, Greg Despot, Jerry White, John D’Antoni, Fletch Daniels, John Ryan, Jack Beck or Ray Hymel.
WITH THE WHEELS:
FRED TANSEY, main cog in the Villager’s club, announces that the local club will hold a testimonial dinner for the Irish basketbailers after the regular season closes. . . . Present will be many bylines from the sports pages. . . . HUGH GOOD, Rochester club, took a bride in the Lady Chapel on January 25th. . . . She was the Miss Claire Slattery of Memphis, Tennessee. . . . DICK KLEE, Rochester club prexy, goes to the hitching post the day after Easter. . . . KEVIN O’SHEA, California club, is a twowheeler. . . . Besides honoring Moose Krause with his presence on the basketball court, he is treasurer of the California club. . . . FRAN CURRAN, student, hoopster, and member of the Ball-n-Chain club, says his wife always has the last word. . . . He relates this story which took place at the supper table last week: “Darling,” . . . said Fran . . . “I’m not casting reflections on your cooking, but I sure wish you could learn to make the kind of bread my mother used to bake.” ... “I don’t think that would be so difficult,” . . . retorted his spouse sweetly. . . . “that is, if you will learn to make the dough my father used to make.”
❖
ON THE HOUSE:
According to a recent “handout” we understand that representatives from several campus clubs attended the National Federation of Catholic College Student’s Conference down at Collegeville, Indiana, on February 8th and 9th. Incidentally, Notre Dame paid the lion’s share of the tariff.
COME LAUDEE:
After many denials, counter-denials and finally, much utter confusion, comes the information that the Buffalo club
30
will present a trophy co the most valuable player on the Irish basketball squad the night of the Canisius-Notre Dame game . . . the club has been* given a “blanket” extended weekend to attend . the fracas as it corresponds with the Washington birthday holiday. . . . Lou Streer, Jack Shine, Frank Hartnett, Don Colgrove and Jim Jacobi are on the expediting committee.
HELP! HELP! HELP!:
Before press time we continue to gnaw our fingernails down to the knuckles, sweating it out for more campus news. Club secretaries should send their news to 243 Zahm Hall. Let’s keep the old column news-drenched, what say?
AROUND AND ABOUT:
The Arabian club is believed to be the first club of its kind in the country. . . . Members plan on making a pilgrimage to Syria and Lebanon during a future summer vacation. ... A campus clubs directory is being organ’zed. . . . Rochester club will hold monthly meetings at the Bendix Community House, providing they can obtain administration approval. . . . Jerry Phillips is trying to organize a Rockford, Illinois, club. .... Washington-Maryland-Virginia club will hold several discussion periods during the
spring semester, presided over by members of the faculty. . . . Dick Kloecker, John Huckstep, Bill Guyol and Paul Kane are platforming in anticipation of the St. Louis club’s forthcoming elections.
LETTERS (Continued from Page 3) thought of a repetition of the catastrophe, take four examinations in one day. Perhaps the University is soliciting business for the Infirmary, or perhaps they are endeavoring to ascertain the number of mice and the number of men contained in the student body.
Be all that as it may, the fact remains that the examinations, which are now jammed into a one-week period promiscuously, should be spread over two weeks at least, with ample time for review and as few as possible exams in one day. • Perhaps then the quavering hand which holds this worn-out pen will cease to shake and the insurance comany will one? again accept me as a good risk.
Name Withheld.
Dr. Nutting to Address Liturgy Club Feb. 12
The first meeting of the Spring Se-mestei* for the Notre Dame Liturgy Club will take place next Wednesday evening, Feb. 12, at 7:30 in the the Auditorium of the Law Building.
The Liturgy Club is an all student organization whose primary aims are the study of the Liturgy of the Church from the standpoint of its historical and devotional content.
The meeting will consist of the reception of new members, club business and an address on “Liturgy and Its Relation To The College Student,” by Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Professor of History at Notre Dame.
All students are invited to attend regardless of whether interested in joining the club or not.
Students of University of Notre Dame
The Easterling Company has openings for men who are interested in making a connection now for a sales position with a future. The product is Sterling Silver. Qualified men interested in sales and personnel work can begin on a part time basis and earn from $100 to $200 per month while takirg a regular course of study. Upon graduation these men will be considered for Key positions in our national sales organization.
Undergraduates can qualify for lucrative summer work in their home areas.
Write E. Guy Walker, District Manager, The Easterling Company, 6760 Stony Island Ave., Chicago 49, Illinois.
31
ND Debate Team Plans Interesting Schedule
Twenty-five students, who comprise the Notre Dame debate team, will all be given a chance to speak in public, according to plans recently released by Mr. Leonard Sommer. The second team debate squad were hosts on Feb. 2 to the squad from Capitol University and a large crowd turned out to witness this event.
The debate team has been outstanding in its performances this year. Frank Finn was awarded a plaque as the outstanding speaker in the tournament at Purdue; the debate team finished second in the Iowa tournament; and the squad has received an invitation to the West Point tourney in March. Princeton, boasting the oldest forensic society in the United States, will also challenge the Notre Dame squad in March.
Twelve other debate teams will visit the campus this season, including such noteworthy opponents as Michigan State Teachers women’s team, Marquette, and Nebraska. Another interesting feature will be the debate with the women’s team from the University of Wichita. The subject will be: Women are more intelligent than men. The only “catch” is that Notre Dame must take the affirmative and the women’s team the negative. This interesting experiment will be broadcast and recorded.
"Front-Line Chaplain" Named Rector of Farley
Father Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., one of the Army’s best-known chaplains, recently returned to Notre Dame and has been named rector of Farley Hall, new student residence hall.
Father Barry, who was known as the
SHAVES
YOU for 3 months f
TIE MUUN FIREARMS CIMPANY
Boo Soos Sha U»
“front-line chaplain,” is the holder of the Silver Star received for gallantry in action. He landed in Sicily on D-Day, in July, 1943, and subsequently participated in some of the fiercest battles of the war — at Salerno, Anzio, Southern France and Germany, noth the famed 45th Division.
Father Barry graduated from Notre Dame in 1929, and was ordained in 1933 by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne. He was pastor of Christ the King Church near South Bend in 1933, and in 1934 was named assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s Church in South Bend, a position he held until he entered the service. Father Barry was also su-pervisoi’ of the Catholic Youth Organization activities in the South Bend area in 1935.
GILBERT’S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
Golden Wedding Brings 43 to Mercurio Reunion
The Christmas vacation gave vent to many parties and get-togethers of old friends who had been separated for some -time, but few of the celebrations were as unique as that of the 50th wedding anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. Ignazio Mercurio, parents of Dante Mercurio of Howard Hall and Bloomfield, N. J.
The anniversary celebration commenced when Father Thomas Menegus, pastor of St. Anthony’s Church of Belleville, N. J., officiated at the ceremony of a renewal of the marriage vows. The first family reunion in 15 years followed with an assembly of 12 children, 29 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
ptam Ute eMeant!
Van Hensen
Shirts, Sport Shirts, Ties, Pajamas
32
U. S. to Aid Graduate Latin America Study
By JOHN WATERS *
The State Department has announced a limited number of travel and maintenance grants to assist United States graduate students who desire to undertake academic studies or research in the other American republics. These grants will be awarded to qualified candidates to supplement personal funds or funds they may expect to receive through fellowships or other assistance from universities, research councils, or other qualified organizations. The grants will provide travel or maintenance, or both, in accordance with the individual needs of the students and estimates of the cost of living in the countries in which study is to be undertaken.
To be eligible for State Department assistance candidates must hold a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent and must be engaged in or recently have completed graduate study. A good working knowledge of the language of the country in which study is to be undertaken, is also required. Projects will be considered with reference to their usefulness in developing broader understanding between the United States and the other American republics as well as on the basis of their technical merit.
Honorably discharged veterans of World Wars I and II who meet the above qualifications will be given preference, and the selection will be made from students in all parts of the country. Although no age limit has been set, the probability is that persons over 35 will have less chance of being selected.
Successful candidates will be expected to remain in residence for the purpose of study or research for at least six months. Grants will be valid for a minimum of six months and a maximum of one year.
Application blanks may be obtained from the American Republics Section,
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS TIME CHANGED
At the request of interested students, the recorded concerts which have been presented regularly at 12:30 p.m., every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, will be given, at least temporarily, from 4:15 to 5:15 p. m. the same days. All students interested in classical recordings are cordially invited to attend these concerts.
Division of International Educational Relations, United States Office of Education, Federal Security Agency, Washington 25, D. C., and should be returned to that office not later than March 1, 1947.
WHOT 'Queen' Program to Undergo Revisions
The weekly radio program, “Queen of Peace,” heard every Saturday at 10:15 a. m. over station WHOT, will undergo an experimental operation tomorrow morning.
Originally, the “Queen” program was devoted to a 15-minute narration from the pages of the weekly Catholic journal, the Ave Maria. But tomorrow,
Toure Ike man most likely to
Succeed
. .. in Van Heusen Shirts and ties • •
Rev. Archibald McDowell, C.S.C., program narrator, will jig-saw the format in an endeavor to add a little listening spice to the program. As an appetizer, the first 5 minutes of the show will include a running patter on the lighter side of the Catholic news. As before, ■ the main course will include a short narration from the Ave Maria; while the last 5 minutes have been singled out for personal thought and meditation.
However, the meditation will not be of the silent variety as “dead” air in the radio business is a mortal sin. Instead, Father McDowell has prepared a series of informative talks on the value of meditation as a warehouse of spiritual and temporal riches.
Giris cut in on man! Why? Look at that Van Heusen Shirt! Famous Van Heusen collar styling sends your Eye-Q zooming. Figure-fit tailoring emphasizes the athlete in you. Style, comfort, plus magic sewnianship and Sanforized, laboratoiy-tested fabrics to give you many semesters of economical wear. Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y., makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts.
33
Newfoundland Flag Flies for Jim Green
By STEPHEN T. VALETICH
If you’re looking for the Flag of Newfoundland you need go no further than Room 2 of Lyons sub. A part of the make-up of the Newfoundland flag, possibly the only one on the campus, the well-known British Union Jack will also greet you from its high commanding position on the locker facing the door.
But Jim Green, accent-free and 18, one of three Newfoundland men on the campus—graduate student Robert J. Connolly and Brother Justin Dwyer, C.S.C., are the others—xvill explain that his country’s flag carries its own symbol in the lower right corner with the famous “Jack” in the upper left corner—both imposed upon a red background.
And the” likable, affable personality will hastily add that Newfoundland (accent upon the last syllable) is in no way governed by Britain or Canada. The 42,000 sq. mile island, easternmost point of North America, is self governing and entirely free from any outside powers. According to the 5th semester English major, government leaders are now meeting in the capital city, St. John’s, planning several forms of government, one
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
Plenty of ROLL FILM-in the five popular sizes
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT'S Camera Shop Opposite the Courthouse
122 South Main St Phone 3-5041
STORE HOURS
Tues.-Sat. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m. Monday — open till 8:30 p. m.
Jim Green's dad (left) flew from Newfoundland to visit his son during the Christmas vacation.
of which will be adopted to govern Newfoundland and its possession to the north, Labrador. The island’s 350,000 inhabitants will adopt, in a popular vote this. summer, one of the forms proposed.
A graduate of St. Bonaventure’ College (high school under the English system) St. John’s, Jim arrived at Notre Dame in July ’45. Without hesitation Jim chose Notre Dame when his father, an auditor, gave him his choice of universities with only one stipulation—it had to be a Catholic institution.
A tackle on last fall’s Lyons Hall champion football team, a member of the University Glee Club, Wranglers, and active in Catholic Action Groups, Jim intends to return to Newfoundland upon graduation and settle in his home town of St. John’s, the island’s largest city, 60,000, and base of North Atlantic fleets during the Avar.
His collection of war memories include the island’s conversion into a gigantic security base with the expansion of harbor facilities, quartering of thousands of troops and building its two great airbases, Stevensville Field in the west and Gander Field further east, now used by commercial airlines. But now, says Jim, the emphasis is again placed upon the island’s two principal peacetime industries, fishing and paper milling.
This summer Jim intends to fly approximately 2,500 miles to Gander Field. Awaiting the advent of the fall semester, he will either work for his dad or handle some of the island’s large tourist trade.
So, if any of you intend traveling this summer see Jim Green first—the many tourist pamphlets he has may induce you to travel to the increasingly popular-country of Newfoundland.
One of the few electrostatic generators, commonly known as atom smashers, in the Unted States is at the University of Notre Dame. It is capable of producing more than 4,000,000 volts of electricity for atom smashing experiments.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND
MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
WANTED—
Men For Sales Work Contacting Physicians, Hospita’.s, Etc.
Long established nationally known ethical pharmaceutical . manufacturer has limited number of openings for men interested in contacting physicians to promote and interpret most recent developments of medical and pharmaceutical research.
Permanency, security and excellent opportunities for advancement for successful men. in this organization. Salary and Expenses.
Minimum of 3 years college work with major in biological sciences such as zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, bacteriology, organic chemistry, etc. Age 23-30.
Replies held strictly confidential. Give full information regarding background.
BOX 185
NOTRE DAME, IND.
34
when you smoke ®
PHILIP MORRIS
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE America's FINEST Cigarette!
oi

AW	”
the -in ,thon-
There’s an important difference in Philip Morris manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world’s finest tobaccos come through for your complete enjoyment—c/eaw, fresh, pure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke Phiup Morris! That’s why Philip Morris taste better —smoke better—all day long!
No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
BTPHIUPMO
ALWAYS BETTER-BETTER ALL WAYS
3S