.... 
~ 
'.'\',·~ . 

Tell your parents to subscribe to Scholastic and cut your phone bill in half! 
SCHOLA-TIC 
MAGAZINE 
You'll find: 

• 
The latest campus news and sports 

• 
National and campus entertainment ONLY$30 coverage 

• 
Controversial campus issues AYEAR 

• 
Weekend happenings 

• 
Humor, commentary and the Gipper 


¦YES! __
Name: 

Address: __________ ·1 want a year-long subscription to Scholastic Magazine so I can keep tabs on my child. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 





SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 138, NUMBER 4 FOUNDED 1867 OCTOBER 3, 1996 
FEATURE STORY 

Whining and Dining 
by Meredith Salisbury Few on-campus students actually make it to the dining hall for all 21 meals they pay for each week, and ID cards cannot be used at other food vendors on campus. Other schools across the nation have developed plans that better accommodate students' habits. Many think that Notre Dame should follow suit. 
......................................16 

Shooting for a Goal 
byJeremyDixon 
Senior goalkeeper Jen Renola has led · the women's soccer team to national prominence since she came to Notre Dame in 1993 as one of its missing pieces. 
.................................... 10 
by T. Steve D'Avria 


SUB has big plans for the student body this year, including a concert by 
· Rusted Root and the re­vival of AnTostal tradi­tions. .................................... 22 
FEATURES 
Waking Up the Echoes ....................................... 4 
by Kate Jacques 
Dus and Don 'ts .................................................... 6 
by Sara Brandon 
All Fired Up........................................................ 8 
by Heather Schomann _ 
Nothing Could be Finer ................................... 12 
by Brian Hiro 
Businessman's Pleasure ................................... 14 
by Colin Smith 
Desperately Seeking Student Space ................ 19 
by Matt Szabo 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor .................................................... 2 Letters to the Editor ............................................... 3 Campus Watch ..................................................... 9 Splinters From the Press Box ..•..: ............... ; ....... 21 _. Out of Bounds ............. ; ...................................... 25 Week in Distortion ..; .......................................... 26 Calendar ............................................................. 27 On Other Campuses .................... : ........... ; .......... 28 Life In ·Hell .... : .................................................... 30 Parting Shot. ....................................................... 32 

Hunger Pains 

When I went to visit my friend Liz over fall break last year, she treated me to lunch at 
SCHOLASTIC 

her school's student center. After a short debate, we chose the Taco Bell line over the Pizza 
MAGAZINE 

Hut counter. When we reached the cash register with our Chicken Burrito Supremes, Liz 
V ~lume 138, Number 4 

handed over her student ID and the cashier deducted the corresponding points from her 
October 3, 1996 
semester total for our meals. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~sclwlast/ 

When Liz visited me a few months later, every meal was preceded by a ritual search for someone who wasn't going to the dining hall and who would be willing to loan Liz her ID. 
Editor in Chief: Steven J. Myers I coached Liz in the art ofpunching one's own ID card-push the card in head-first, then 
Managing Editor: Bridget S. Bradburn pull it out right away and wait for the beep-on the walk over to North Dining Hall. I told her that we were risking having the ID confiscated, but it beat paying cash for the meal or 
News: 
sneaking in through the employee entrance. 

Kristin M. Alworth, editor Somehow our dinner just wasn't as enjoyable when we had to put so much effort into it. 
Meredith W. Salisbury, assistant editor And the Fiesta Grande line doesn't have anything close to a Chicken Burrito Supreme 
Campus Life: 

KristirrM. Alworth, editor Other schools offer meal plans and options that seem to better accommodate the eating 
anyway. 
Sports: 
Jeremy R. Dixon, editor 

habits and lifestyles of college students. Meredith Salisbury looks at some of these plans Brian P. Hiro, editor. 
on page 16. 
Entertainment: 
. Christopher E. Myers, editor .
Musical Editors 
Departments: 

Layout and Departments Editor John Infranca is no longer with us for Tuesday deadlines 
Christian Dalla vis, editor and free Bruno's pizza. Freshman Brian Christ will now be heading the layout procedure 
Copy Editor: 
W. Patrick Downes. 

and senior Christian Dallavis is now responsible for finding the humor at Notre Dame and 
Layout:

on other campuses. Brian Christ, editor 
In addition, Campus Life Editor Kristin Al worth is doing double duty in both the Campus Carlyn Gray · Life and News sections, with the help of Meredith Salisbury, Scholastic Magazine's new Nick Ismert assistant news editor. 
Emily Schmidt 

Julie Vodicka Bridget Bradburn 
Photography: 
Managing Editor 
Stanley P. Evans, editor 
Graphic Arts: 
Paul Bohensky, director 
Business Manager: 
Colin P. Smith Distribution Manager: .

66 Years Ago: 
Thomas M. Benco 
Systems Manager: 
SeanP. Hynes 
-AdverHsing Manager: · Jennifer L. Stachowiak 

The Banes of College 
Cover Photo by Stan Evans ·

Existence 
Earlier this century, the editors of Scholastic Magazine ran a column called "The Disce Quasi Semper Victurus 
Week" ~aprecursor to today's Campus Watch by the Gipper. In the January 16, 1930, 
Vive QuasiCras M6riturus 

issue, they complained about a distraction common to many students: 
' . ' 
Published 20.times per school year atthe Universityof Notre Dame, and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind.

One of the lesser banes of college existence is that remarkable product of modern 
46556. Jhe entire contents· oi Scholastic Magazine are · copyright ©1996 .. AU rights reserved. No contents of this

invention, known as the telephone. We do not question the practicability ofthe blamed 
magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced In 

thing, but its exasperating characteristics were never so obvious as they are in a 
any mariner without wriUen cons.ent of the Publisher.. Scholastic Magazine does not assume llabjlityfor unsojjcited 

residence hall. Students who live alongside the phone booth usually flunk out before the 
manuscripts or material. ·.· All correspondence sh·ould be·· sent to ScholasticMagazine, 303 LaFortune Student Center, .

year is over, but ifthey do manage to hang on in spite ofthe everlasting jangling ofthe 
Notre Dam·e, IN 46556. AU letters must include the writer's· 

bell, their mentality is in a questionable condition by the time June arrives. 
name, address and phone number. All. letters. must oe signed. Names will be withhel.d upon request in certain lnsta.nces. The subscription rate,· including the an.nual football review, is $30 peryear;' Available back .issues are

Scholastic wonders what our ancestors would think ofthe mentality oftoday's student 
$1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or.date. 

body after the distractions of the Internet, Must See TV and Sega. 
Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates sent on request.

-BSB 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 


• ' • • I 
' • • • • -• ' • • , ' • ~ I ,­
7 it will never fully meet any objective crite­
COTH Controversies 




Group Underrepresentation Not the Issue In Austern Case 
Dear Editor, 
In regard to the recent controversy about Professor Linda Austem's tenure decision in the PLS department, Professor Gerald Berk writes (Scholastic Magazine, Septem­ber 19, 1996), "The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission begins all of its investigations into charges of discrimina­tion with a simple count: are certain groups underrepresented when compared to their numbers in the field?" 
I find this a bizarre way ofconducting an investigation. The allegation in question concerns one case: Professor Austem and her alleged "uncollegiality." How is the evidence pertinent to that case helped by gathering statistical information on underrepresented groups? Professor Austem is not a group; she is an individual. Suppose she is being discriminated against because she is a Jewish woman and the PLS depart­ment is using the "collegiality" issue as a ploy. That would be unjust, but it can't be proven by showing that the PLS department has discriminated against random underrepresented groups -nor can it be proven even by showing that the depart­ment has a history of using collegiality as a ploy to deny tenure to Jewish women. At best, the latter sort of evidence could pro­vide subsidiary support for other evidence that has a direct bearing on Professor Austem's own case. 
Shouldn't the "starting point" of any in­vestigation into allegations of wrongdoing be the evidence supporting or undermining the charge itself? If the charge leveled at Professor Austem is "uncollegiality," then the first thing an investigator needs is a definition of that term, and the propriety of its being used _in tenure decisions like Pro­fessor Austerh's. The investigator can then determine whether Professor Austem was unfairly denied tenure or not, and settle the matter. 
Yet Professor Berk brushes off debate 
about "collegiality" as if it were entirely 
irrelevant to the issue, and concedes with­
out argument that the tenure decision pro­
cess is irreducibly "subjective." Well, if the 
decision process is irreducibly "subjective," 
we may as well concede from the outset that ria like "justice" -and we can then regard Professor Austern as the hapless victim of a system that is "beyond good and evil." 
If we want a "larger issue" to debate, shouldn't it be the propriety of various cri­teria for hiring and promotion in academe, like "collegiality"? So far as I can see, this topic bears no essential connection to the issue ofunderrepresented groups. You don't have to be the member of an underrepresented group to be judged "uncollegial" or to dispute the relevance of collegiality to tenure decisions. By the same token, you can be the member of an underrepresented group and use subjec­tively-defined criteria for invidious pur­poses. So the question of group underrepresentation is neither here nor there. In fact, the EEOC formulation begs an im­portantquestion by presupposing that groups as such are what deserve representation on university faculties: a group can't be undenepresented unless one assumes that groups are entitled to some optimal level of representation in the first place. Why as­sume that? 
Notwithstanding the EEOC's methodol­ogy, there is no good reason why the issue of group underrepresentation should serve as the "starting point" of our inquiries into the subject of hiring and promotion. The start­ing point should be the defensibility of the criteria for hiring and promotion decisions as such, regardless of their differential im­pact on underrepresented groups. If aca­demic departments cannot come up with objective criteria that meet this description apart from statistical generalizations about group representation, we might as well ad­mit that the whole academic enterprise is bankrupt and stop making such a fuss when those oppressive white males stake their · claim to a little "group representation" of their own. 
hfan Khawaja Ph.D. candidate in philosophy 
~­
Overstated 

Dear Editor, 
I very much enjoyed reading your article on the theater season (Scholastic Magazine, September 12, 1996) and the program in general, but there were two points which caused me some concern, one large and one small. 
The small point: I said "higher adminis­tration" not "hired administration" as was printed. I have never heard or used the term "hired administration" in my 23 years of university teaching. I realize in a phone interview words can get garbled, but it was the support of the higher administration, from the dean to the Dome, to which I was referring. 
The large point: the article seemed (quite incorrectly) to connect David Garrick's leave this year to his personal letter to The Ob­server. No such association exists. Fr. Garrick, an assistant professor (not an asso­ciate professor as you stated), completed his first three years in rank last year and was renewed for a second three-year term. Rou­tinely, assistant professors apply for and are granted a one-semester leave with full pay or a two-semester leave with half pay imme­diately following renewal so that they will have full time to devote to their research, which is so crucial to gaining tenure at the end of the six-year "probationary" period. Another assistant professor in the depart­ment, Dr. Rutsky, is on the same calendar as Fr. Garrick and also chose a full-year leave. 
Thanks again for a good, balanced article, although I don't believe we viewed last year as being nearly as controversial as you did. Or maybe the "controversies" you men­tioned just seemed like cakewalk after the death threats I received when the film and television side of the department screened The Last Temptation ofChrist a few years back. 
Mark Pilkinton Professor and Chair Communication and Theatre De artment 

HISII.Jllill-1--------------------:---------­
Wal<ing Up the 
The Captain Crunch Breakfast the _ the Lou Cheer...lt's all part ofa typical 
BY KATE JACQUESThe band members clutch their instruments anxiously. After long hours spent planning and practicing their routine, they are ready for the game. The announcer's voice echoes through the stands as he introduces "The Band of the Fighting Irish." The drums sound, the crowd roars, and the band marches onto the field as the audience applauds wildly. It's another typical game day for the Notre Dame marching band. 
J 
! 
IRISH EYES ARE SMl~ING. Junior Beth Ann Heet enjoys the game with fellow band members. 
6:45 a.m. Football Saturdays begin bright and early for band members. Rising with the sun is a challenge, but the penalties can be harsh, as band members may bekicked out ofband ifthey are late to the morning practice at Loftus. Junior Charlotte Kibler explains that she overslept once, so her section leader called and told her to go oyerto Loftus immediately. "Ijustthrew on my clothes, brushed my teeth, and ran to Loftus," recalls Kibler. 
Kibler explains that dorm representatives for band are supposed to wake up all band members in their dorm on game days, but sometimes they just knock on the door and do not ensure that everyone is up. 
7:15 a.m. The band congregates in the band room to enjoy a casual breakfast and read the informal band newsletter, The Fifer. Senior Alyssa Donnelly explains that band members fondly refer to this gathering as the ''Captain Crunch Breakfast." The band is served cerea:l and juice, although Captain Crunch is not necessarily part of the meal. 
7:45 a.m. The band begins their march through North Quad at this early hour, waking residents of Cavanaugh, Zahm and Breen­Phillips, among others. Freshmen Emily Reimer and Erin Deming don't mind the wake-up call, though. "It gets you psyched for the game and brings out your Notre DIUile spirit," Deming says. 
·-·-­

8:30 a.m. Now a little more awake, the group heads back to Loftus for a dress rehearsal of that day's routine. Assistant Drum Major Steve Wojcikiewicz finds this rehearsal to be the most tiring part of his day: "Nobody puts forth their best effort the morning before a game because they need to conserve their energy," he says. 
9:30 a.m. Following the long rehearsal, the band receives a break to prepare for the game. "We usually will go to breakfast at the dining hall together in groups," says Donnelly. They have time to change into their uniforms as well, a task that is not as easy as it seems. W ojcikiewicz says one ofhis biggest challenges ofthe day is remembering on which side of the uniform his plaid belongs. 
10:00 a.m. During their break, the different band sections engage in various rituals. Each instrumental group practices different routines on game mornings. The-tuba players sing the fight song, while the saxes serenade the drum majors. Junior Beth Ann Heet says the trumpet players sometimes play the fight song in the rotunda ofthe Main Building. ''It sounds really cool because of the echoes."· She adds that the piccolo players wish each other luck through a pinkie-finger lock. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 

Echoes 
concert on the steps, game day for the band 
12:00 p.m: The band's last event ofthe morning ill the concert on the steps of the administration building.· "It is · a neat experience because so many people go there and there's a sea of faces all there to see the band," says Donnelly. 
12:30 p.m. Immediately following this concert, the band undergoes the inspection process. Each member must stand at attention in silence, without even a hint of a smile, while seniors and core band members review their overall posture and appearance. 
Keeping a straight face is challenging, admits Donnelly, since the band alumni tries to make the current members laugh during inspection. "Somebody attached a shrimp to a string and dangled it in front of someone's face once," Donnelly recalls. Kibler explains that people often make fun of band members in an attempt to make them smile.' 
1:15 p. m. The Notre Dame football team enters the tunnel after their practice session on the field, and the band's cheers are unsuppressed. As the opposing team enters the locker room, however, the band's rally ceases and silent glares greet the other players. "The other team WE GOT THE BEAT. Assistant Drum Major Steve Wojcikiewicz leads the band suddenly gets silent and looks around like they did some-during the game. thing wrong," says Wojcikiewicz, explaining that intimi­dating the opposing team is one ofhis favorite parts ofthe morning. 3:00 p.m. It's halftime, and the band members are ready for their 
performance. Kibler says the band's main concern during the show 
1:20 p.m. The band marches out onto the field. Different is what the student response will be. "It's hard to know how well members have favorite parts of the experience, from the march the students will like a routine," she says. through the tunnel to hearing the echoes ofthe drums. "Ifyou don't feel the spirit moving, then you're already dead," says Heet. 3:45 p.m. Third quarter has begun, and the band members relax Wojcikiewicz confides that he often wonders, "Did he [the an­after their halftime show. Apples are passed around to everyone, nouncer] say my name right this time?" and the photographer throws mints at them. Kibler says that the 
Band members sometimes worry about falling when they trot assistant director sometimes tosses peanuts to the band, too. onto the field, especially if it's raining. Kibler relates that, two years ago, someone collided with a drum player and fell down. -4:30 p.m. The third quarter has just come to an end. The band "She got up and kept going, but it was just embarrassing," says plays the "1812 Overture" -and the crowd does the "Lou" cheer. Kibler. "It's awesome to see everyone doing the cheer," says Kibler. "But 
we're usually focused more on playing the music." 
2:00 p.m. The game is underway, and the band is keeping the atmosphere lively. One ofKibler' s favorite parts ofthe day is doing 5:45 p.m. The game has finally drawn to a close. After their all of tlie cheers. "We have dances for all of the cadences," she traditional post-game show: the exhausted band is ready fopack it explains. in. At least until the next home game. 
. SCH O L·A ST IC MAGA.ZIN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 3, 1 9 9 6 
1 
1


~-Siiii: 111111111111,1-------------------­
1 





us' 
and 


Scno(astic S\\_BY
SARA BR~~~s throw du Lac in 
1n-vest1aates 
t[. JoLJ 
rte most 
~f 
f.. t [
0 -vea f'U es on campus to _find out iftfle1 
are fact or 
_fiction 

the drawerand figure that 
when we get in trouble, we'll learn the rules first hand. If you've found yourselfusing this method, then read­
ing this article like you read Cliff's Notes 
could pay off. Instead of using the book as acoasterforbeverages,youmaywanttouse it as a study aid for this article. Here are some ofthe most misunderstood rules asso­ciated with du Lac: 
1. Co-eas cannot five at the same off-campus aaaress. 
The first and most widely accepted myth is that people ofthe opposite sex cannot live at the same off-campus address. Actually, they can. "I get phone calls all the time asking if the Three's Company living ar­rangement is against du Lac," says Jeffrey Shoup, director of residence life, "We all have more challenging things to deal with at Notre Dame than co-eds living together off campus." He stresses that parietals pertain only to students living on campus. 
2. % sex on campus. 
This rule is a different story. It is against the rules to have sex on campus. Violations of this rule may not exactly seem to be a problem at Notre Dame, since it's evenhard to find people of the opposite sex sitting at the same table in the dining halls. Shoup adds that Residence Life does not see many offenders of this rule. "This is not much of a problem here, but you would be surprised at some ofthe public ways people have been caught, like at the lakes," he says. 
3. qf !our roommate aies, !ou get a 4.0 GWA ana free riving arrangements. 
Anyone who has a morbid interest in gaining from his or her roommate's demise, listen up. The registrar's office confirms that this rule is definitely a myth, so put away the poison. They say that otherwise, 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
students would be killing their roommates left and right. Besides, the gains would be minimal. By the time you paid the lawyers' fees, the only free room you could find would have bars on the windows. 
4. Cit is against Cindlana state [aw to impede tFte progress oftFte Cl'{Qtre <])ame marching &and". 
Yes, it is true. Nothing can stop the band, so the next time they march by at 8 a.m., don't even think of impeding them. Shoup believes that there may be a safety reason for this law. He has heard of problems at other universities where people rush the band and get hurt. "Musical instruments can be dangerous if pushed in the faces of band members," he noted. Perhaps someone should inform the Ohio State fan who rushed the band during the post-game show of this law. 
5. <])rinking games and" EJeff-0 snots are a vio[ation and" [a&dea 
a&usive drinking -even if~ou are 21. Put away your Jell-O and drinking J enga. Both are against du Lac for everyone over and under-age. Shoup attributes this rule to 
some of the more recent alcohol policies on campus. 
6. Cit is against au <Je,c ru[es to 
throw fooa in tFte dining Ftaffs. Shoup confirms that du Lac forbids throw­ing food in the dining halls, so you should never start food fights. It's all fun and games until someone gets whacked in the head with a dining hall roll. Those things are hard. Not only does du Lac consider this behavior childish, but playing with dining hall food is hazardous to your health. 
7. ~[owing someone to use ~our 
student CI<]) is against tfte ru[es. This rule is no myth, so the next time your roommate is starving and asks to use your student ID to get into the dining hall,just say no. 
8. Cit is against au <Je,c to &ui[d" a foft over seven feet offtFte ground". 
This rule is clearly stated in du Lac. Ifyou catch your roommate trying to build the loft an inch from the ceiling to conserve space, make a• citizen's arrest. 
9. You cannot nave: section parties 
or section s~. 

Ifyou feel like throwing a section SYR, too bad. It's against the rules. Shoup says this rule was also created when more recent alcohol policies were implemented. Prior to the 1980s, students were hanging up blan­kets to mark off their sections and rolling in a keg. Rather than let students have too much fun, du Lac revisions put an end to the section party. 
I0. CW"a[king across the grass is 

against tfte ru[es at.Cl'{Qtre <])ame. This last "rule" is a myth. "This was never a part ofdu Lac, but people have been told before not to tear up the grass," said Shoup. "I think maybe after it rains some­times people decide to slide around on the grass, and when they are told not to, they assume it's against the rules. The only parts of the grass off limits are the ones marked off or being reseeded." So take off your shoes and don't be afraid to enjoy the grass. 
By following these simple tips and learn­ing the rules, you can walk across the grass, live off-campus with someone of the oppo­site sex and put all plans of murdering your roommate out of your mind. Just remember -the only people around here who are allowed to score are the athletes. D 

louEali&e contest 
. . : 
. ··,·.-· .. _.. -. 

·---~:~Hb vou~:P~orn~Jo rntst~Ol~rnc 
ou1ctrnjoirnio~rnHtCtttlc~•·· 
· 
:-,_~-,/_\:.-> :~_.-,.·:-,·.,' '.-\_·:, -_·:-:,·· -: 
.../\i-~i.',>, _:~-~-,--•*fll~~ivou] N.nmt.nNDj~t{n.ctm1w vou LOO.U ll.U~ ONJ~t P~OlO* 
,. ·. ..;· .. '.. >··.... -> J';_>:.c· . •.«, ; •.·<:f/\,i•;<,,.; . . ,., •.• 
[/v:.;,_ .. :··: :.;:;·..:-.·~:· -... ·· J:;.'.~H~tfp]·1ztfWIL[~t]W.n~PID:TOrnt-t1~rriPL~(tW1lttt.nil' 
r~·•::--~-.:-..--::~.:"/ 
SCHOLASTIC MAG A_Z IN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 3, 1 9 9 6 

IMiliiiill,,11¦------------------:---------­
All Fired Up 
C: 
ci:,"' SCHOOL DAZE. Freshmen Tom Murphy (left) and Bryan Wise (right) fall into the mid-afternoon Jerry Springer trance. 
Talk shows may be known as trash Tv, but they attract plenty ofNotre Dame students as viewers 
/~R\

highly opinionated audiences and 20-some-across fhat.way at all." 
BY HEATHER SCHOMANN thing topics, and Jerry Springer, notorious Talk '~liQ~fjop;~times surprise viewers. 
It's 3 p.m., and the sound of for his outrageous guests, are two favorites . FreshmanKaty•Ja~~~cf,flippingthrough 
television sets clicking on can among students. "Ricki's the best because TV channels over:spnng break last year 
be heard in dorm rooms and lounges she not ~ti,Jj~~(q yell at her guests and tell whensherecogniz~ctlo~f6i'~!i::hardBey's across campus. Students settle into their them;e£act1y\what she thinks of them -guests -two ~irls whci w'e~:"t,~ he~ high couches and place their homework asi~C\f{~fy¼u~iiiliy isn't all that flattering," says · school. The topic was, "I'm too-beautiful to 
It's talk show time, and there's som:ethingJ/ Petelle. "It gets the audience really fired get a date." 
~\_., 
on the menu for everyone. Ricki has, "Girl, up." "They made complete fools of them­you've got my man and I want him back!" Talk shows are an entirely differentexpe-selves," Yanez says. "Everyone was talking Jerry offers, "Surprise! I've got a crush on rience when witnessed firsthand. Jerry behind their backs when they got back to you." Geraldo has, "Women murderers: Springer and Oprah Winfrey both tape their school. Ifshe couldn't get a date before, she what they did forlove." Many Notre Dame shows in Chicago, a perfect road tp,1t:{9rc, definitely couldn'.t get one after." . students an('.~efc(i@.J t9Jrash TV, despite its Notre ~ame students. Freshmen[~1Nrf7 f.i~:?fpt_~~ryone fmds talk shows entertam­notorious reput~tio%/-fl: h . ~ . Roddewig and Kate D~ffy have _a:Irea:d~ lid9f/{I /fsed to w_atch them a lot ... " ~ays 
Talk show watchmg1is aµ:,cqu![~ci:habit. been members of a Spnnger studio audi-soptldm,ore Jeannme Lehmann. "I realized Most viewers are originally draJlhjtp/taif ence. "I decided to go just for fun, to see last year how ignorant most of the guests shows by boredom and a lack of altep.'fu~e0~1~t it.. w.as like," says Roddewig. "The were. I was embarrassed for them. Here programming. "I was sick and out of sclioo11 lt~,<;,keJ~r:~{re free. What do you have to they were sharing their problems on na­for two m?nths during sen,\or year and there lbse1'..1f.lih~~qe~ ~p gettin~ more than she tional television." .. was nothmg else to do, says freshman barga~d (._or}j,':phey sat us m the front row Many students who are turn~d off by the Laura Petelle. "They helped to relieve my and the guests ended up having a cat fight," trashier topics of ~-PJ;if!.g~i;~l¾~\Lake find boredom." she says. "The guest had two wives who refu.g~ i.n-,\,\(_iµ.fr?Y\~. sho\v..7 wll:fch is fre-
Freshman Kelly Rivera explains that talk confronted each other onstage. It was hilar_i~'".-.'-q\ieh.tly~R10.ai:s'ed fditaking the high road. shows are the only daytime alternative to ous ... the audience really g~ i,gto,:¼<' \\,J}opiali/sthTo~eexception. She's got class," soap operas. "I'm from southern Texas and Duffy's Spril;~~re1;co_u,~fe~a~j_@91°e s'e00/ says Lehmann. Rivera agrees. "Oprah is it's justtoo hot during the middle of the day date. "The topi9\'N~~•~l,~bri}yJ1c}o1c-alikes. different because she is informative. She to do anything in the summertime," she They weren't to~. bao,''fctually," she says. doesn't sink to that lower level," she says. says. "I hate soaps, so talk shows were the "The cool part was that we got on TV and we Ifyou find the quad a little more peaceful only thing left." got to meet Jerry at the end and get his around· 3 p.m., check the nearest dorm 
When it comes to choosing what to watch, autograph. He seemed like a really nice guy. lounge. You '11 probably find some friends the consensus seems to be the trashier the Ithoughthe'dhavetobealittlestrangetodo there, yelling at the TV along with Ricki's topic, the better. Ricki Lake, known for her what he does for a living but he didn't come audience. O 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
CTAJ'vfPus CbNlMENTARY ­
gipper.1@nd.edu 


Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo 
From a restful sleep rises the-Gipper to take his rightful place atthe top ofthe Dome. All will bow down thrice daily to the Golden Gipp, and Jesus will stand re~dy to catch him if he should be struck down. A Mecca ofthe Midwest, Notre Dame will stand ... Whoops. Wrong document. That's the Gipp's journal entry for his therapist. 
NO CLASS? 

TELL HIM YOURSELF Anyway, the Gipp had a couple weeks to 
let people whisper sweet somethings into his ear, but orily a few days to deal with the OSU loss. Speaking of which, remember 
that guy doing a victory dance in the endzone? The Gipp didn't appreciate his 
lack ofrespectfor Notre Dame, as he treated us to his repertoire of NYC cabbie hand gestures dudng the alma mater. How did 
you feel? Don'ttell the Gipp, tell Alan DavidBaum 
himself. The Gipp pulled up Mr. Baum's e­mail address off Turbogopher 
(Baum.l8@osu.edu), and plans to express 
his dissatisfaction with his manners. While he's at it, the Gipp plans to _ask Mr. Baum if 
he affirms himself solely ~ough the Buck­eyes, orif he lives vicariously through other 
sports teams as well. 
WE WANT·.OUR MTV -AND BASIC 
INSTINCT 

For those of you who frequent the Nite Oalc, the Oalc Room's nighttime alter ego, there's a reason it's almost always Disney night. Some years ago, a parentbrought his or her son into the Nite Oalcand was shocked at the R-rated filth on the big screen. After some well-directed complaints, the Dome issued an edict: no R-rated movies. 
In a similar vein, ever notice that· they never have MTV on before The Lion King? 
Apparently, Oasis is just as bad as The Shawshank Redemption when it comes to moral decay. Maybe they should focus on the family value oflate-night Flanner Vision instead. 
"CAR 54, WHERE ARE YOU?" 
We all know these football weekends are tough for local police, as they put extra men on duty to look after all us high-on-life fans. They selflessly go to work on their day off, directing traffic, riding horses and tear-gas­sing students celebrating their school's vie-· tory (Columbus police only). In fact, this weekend the Gipp was informed ofa cruiser tearing down Bulla Road toward campus just before' the game, lights flashing and sirens wailing. Following the cruiserwas­Lou Holtz's Buick? 
Another source reported seeing a cruiser going the opposite direction on Bulla after the game. Holtz' scar wasn'tfar behind, and as the cruiser stopped traffic on Ironwood, Holtz took a left and was gone in a flash. According to the witness, the whole episode lastedundera minute-about as much time as it took for OSU to score their first touch­down. 
CUTTING THE WRONG CORNERS 
Taking their lead from Notre Dame's finest, the dining hall checkers at SDH have stepped up their perimeter security. Last spring, students undermined SDH's profit margin by taking bagels out with them after meals. But Yarbrough drew the line in the sand when he determined that bagels did not count as pastries, and thus could not be removed from the dining hall. 
Yet, the war wages on at South. A Gipp admirer carried a half-full bottle of water into the dining hall and was accosted by a dining hall checker as she was leaving. When the Gipp fan told the checker there 
REASON NUMBER 6661 THE GIPP LOVES NOTRE DAME: 
The university mailed outa catalog of items from the stadium. Prices: brick chip, $45; full brick, $125; bench and brick, $500; usher hatand brick,' $750, brick chip landscaping nuggets, $90 (40 pound bag). No_ wonder Notre Dame is a top recruit-' 1iig school for corporations. 

was only water in the bottle, the woman replied that she could not even remove wa­ter. After convincing the employee that it was not part of the SDH water supply, the woman finally let her by. 
Listen up, everyone at South Dining Hall, the Gipp has a confession. You can keep your bagels and your water. Butevery time the Gipp eats at the dining hall, he leaves with a backpack full offine china and shiny silverware. Dining hall trays, salt shalcers, plates, bowls, the Gipp even made out with a microwave once. Learn from the Gipp, Yarbrough: all the bagels in SDH don't add up to a microwave. 
COUNT ON US TO PULL OUR WEIGHT 

Well, our football team may not be in the top 10 anymore, but the tailgating students ·and alumni are. According to the Tailgater's Handbook, Notre Dame is number seven in "tailgating traditions." Once the Gipp learned that, he felt it was his obligation to uphold Our Lady's tradition. Actually, as a tailgating athlete, he took it upon himself to try to boost Notre Dame's spot in the rankings. Alas, the Indiana State Trooper was uninterested in upholding tradition when he saw the Gipp's Everclear IV. Also, the Gipp doesn't want to rub this in, but OSU is third in "tailgating tradition." The hits keep on comin'! 
Yes, a decidedly sports-oriented Campus Watch, but what do you expect from a school that has as many high school var­sity athletes as it does empty faculty parking spots by the stadium? All you Gipp fans will be much more creative this weekend, as you're forced to do· something other than give Student Affairs and the Office ofDrug and Alcohol Education something to do on Monday morning -yeah, right. . 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ.IN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 3, 1 9 9 6 

_,,.,,,_1---------------------­
SHOOTING FOR AGOAL 
Senior goalkeeper Jen Reno la sets an example for others to fallow, both on and offthe field 
Notre Dame. 
BY JEREMY DIXON 

"I wanted to leave California and experi­When Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola ence something new, so the decision to arrived at Notre Dame in 1993, she leave wasn't too hard," she says. "Once I 
did not know what to expect. The varsity got here, I had 20 friends right off the bat on women's soccer team had only the team and that really helped the adjust­been in existence since 1988 and ment." hadneverqualifiedfortheNCAA Renola was one of the missing pieces for tournament. That soon changed, the Irish as she started her first· game that however, as Reno la and her team­year and has not missed one since. Coming mates participated in the . into this season, Renola's goals-against av­postseason tourney for the first erage was a scant .66, including 29 solo time in 1993 and won the crown shutouts. She also was named a first-team last year. All-American as a sophomore. But personal 
"I don't think drastic changes accolades and honors don't mean much to happen like that very often in any the senior co-captain. sport and it's been amazing to be . "As far as stats go, they're not really a part of that," Renola says. In important to me. Last year, they were worse fact, she is one of the major rea­than they ever were in the past, and we won sons for this breakthrough. it all," she says. 
Growing up in Los Gatos, Ca­Head Coach Chris Petrucelli isn't ashamed lif., Renola was surrounded by an to give praise to his goalkeeper, though. athletic family. The youngest of "She's the glue that holds the team to­four children, Renola recalls this gether," he says. "She steps up when the athleticism. "My sister rowed times are tough." crew at Loyola Marymount and Last year's championship run brings back both ofmy brothers played foot­a flood of memories for Renola, as it has ball and baseball in high school. become the pinnacle of her soccer career. 
en 

§ We've all played sports our whole But it was not always easy sailing for the 
i lives." team. Renola remembers one rough stretch 
5l But it was Jen who went on to in which the Irish had gone 2-2-2 and team 
GETTING DOWN. Renola remains in ready position despite 
rise above her sister and brothers unity was in danger of faliing apart. 
long stretches without seeing a shot. 
in athletic accomplishments. An "We had a kind of desperation meeting All-American goalie in the U.S. Youth Soc­where our coach said we had a choice," she cer Association, she led her team to a sec­recalls. "He had me write our goal, which ond-place league finish. After high school, was to win a national championship, on a she received a scholarship to play soccer at piece of paper and said we could either be committed to this goal or quit the team. If you were committed, you had to sign the piece of paper. It really worked; we won every game after that." 

This intense willingness to win a national championship was not without its lighter side as well, even at the most stressful times. On the day ofthe national champion­ship against Portland last year, Petrucelli gave the team the morning offto get out of the hotel. Team unity soon revolved around a football. 
"We went on this walk and we were playing football, throwing it around, tack­ling each other, just having a great time," Renola reminisces. "Andirememberthink­ing I couldn't find a group of people I'd rather be associated with than this team." 
This close team bond is reflected both on and off the field. "Idon't think you can have a cioser team than we have. My best friends are on the team and that makes it easier," Renola says. "You want to work harder for your teammates and your friends. It's a great environment." 
This friendship allows the team to be­come more comfortable with each other and relax, even before the biggest game of their career. 
"Getting ready to go out on the field before the N o~th Carolina game, all of us were singing, laughing and smiling because everyone was so relaxed and having fun," she recalls with a smile. And to satisfy our curiosity, what are the songs of choice among the soccer players? 
"'Lean On Me' and 'Y.M.C.A.,"'admits Renola. Well, at least it's not "Macarena." ! 
"She's the glue that holds the team together," says Head Coach Chris Petrucelli. "She steps up when times are tough." 
On the field, R,enola had one ofher finest games, as the Irish won 1-0 to move into the finals against Portland. Despite a relentless Carolina attack, she did not give up. 
"Her performance in the North Carolina game was outstanding when she refused to 
KICK START. If the Irish are to repeat as champions, the senior co-captain will have to be at the top of her game. She has already recorded seven shutouts through ten games. 
give up a goal," Petrucelli says. "They beat her up physically, but she stuck it out and hung tough." 
Besides motivating her teammates, Renola has also put on a different hat this year, that of peer advisor to 15 freshmen athletes with whom she meets every three w.eeks. "My goal is to be able to convey to them some ofthe things I've learned along the way because it's hard to balance athlet­ics, classes and social life," she says. 
The senior English and CAPP major has learned how to balance her time as she maintains a cumulative GPA of over 3.6. "It's been easier for me because a majority of my friends are on the team and have the same schedule as me," she says. "Iget work done on road trips, but the social life gives during the season." 
Looking towards her post-graduate life, Renola remains unclear. "Coaching was always in the back of my mind," she says. "After the season, I'll [look at] programs that need assistant coaches and maybe get a 
grad assistant job to get my masters in athletic administration." 
Renola's future looms in front of her 

every day, but for now she concentrates on onesolepurpose: repeatingas nationalcham­
pions. Next up is Notre Dame's archrival, North Carolina. Even the mention ofthe Tar 
H~els doesn't botherRenola despite the fact 
that the Irish were still ranked second com­
ing off their victory last year. 
"We've been shown a lack ofrespect by the mitional media, but it doesn't matter," she says. "In the end, it's who ends up with the trophy, and so that's our goal." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 

en 
::, 
'" 
m 
iii 
::, 
"' 

Nothing
could 

1ner 

Expect a doozy when the undefeated women's soccer team invades Durham to battle number-one North Carolina. 
BRIAN H:IR.o
It would be difficult to overstate the bigness of tomorrow's clash between undefeated second-ranked Notre Dame and undefeated top-ranked North Carolina. But, hey, it's worth a try. It's bigger than the holding penalty called on the Autry Denson punt return. It's bigger than Mike Tyson's latest paycheck and Bruce Seldon's payoff. It's bigger than a Cecil Fielder inside-the-park home run. It's big­ger than a sumo ... Enough already. You get the point. And so do the Irish. For a team that has been demanding re­spect since the Soccer America preseason poll bumped it from its lofty perch, this is a chance to grab a healthy dose. As every visitor since the Reagan administration can attest, facing perennial NCAA champ North Carolina on Tobacco Road is like trying to balance on a floating log. The chances are slim you'll come out on top. Usually you'll fall flat on your face. · 

But then, Notre Dame knows something about monumental upsets. Flashback to 1994: Coach Chris Petrucelli and his squad made the same trek to Durham to play a Tar Heel team that featured 1996 Olympians Mia Hamm and Tisha Venturini, two of the best to ever play the sport, and, oh yeah, a 92-game winning streak. The Irish must have skipped over the press clippings be­cause, in one of the great moments in women's soccer history, they battled the hosts to a scoreless draw. "Unbeaten streak," as Carolina discovered, doesn't quite have the same ring to it. 
But whether the tie swelled Notre Dame's collective head or the Tar Heels just enjoy squashing potential heirs to their throne, the much-hyped rematch in the national cham­pionship game turned into a laugher. The Irish didn't pay any money for the clinic in top-level soccer they received as Carolina cruised to a 5-0 victory. 
For a team that has been demanding respect since the Soccer America preseason poll .bumped it from its lofty perch, this is achance to grab a healthy dose. 


The next year, the superpowers met in the NCAA semifinals with the Tar Heels again a prohibitive favorite. But this time the Irish had fate, not to mention North Carolina's Cindy Parlow, on their side as the Tar Heel forward accidentally. headed the ball into her own· goal for the only score ofthe game. Notre Dame whipped up a solid mixture of airtight defense and divine providence to pull off a historic 1-0 win. The rest is in the university trophy case. 
Which brings us to Friday's big, big game. The Irish have justified their ranking by winning at number-four Connecticut. The Tar Heels have backed up their top billing with a victory over third-ranked Santa Clara. All that's left is this clash of the titans. 
Not that the Irish still don't have a lot to prove. They have to prove that they can ., muster up a goal against Carolina without a ~ little help. They have to prove they can beat ~ 
a team tha~ p~aced ~ee current players -in SPLITTING THE DEFENSE. Sophomore midfielder Shannon Boxx knows that Georgetown was Parlow, m1df1elder Tiffany Roberts and de-nothing compared to the challenge posed by North Carolina. fender Staci Wilson -on the gold medal­
winning Olympic team. And they have to tested All-Americans Cindy Daws, Jen "Player for player, we match up very prove they can do it in the Tar Heel back­Renola, Holly Manthei and Kate Sobrero. It well," says Renola. "I think this is the best yard. will come in the form of hotshot freshmen matchup we've ever had with them." 
The proof will come in the form ofbattle-Jenny Streiffer and Jen Grubb. It should be fun. Not to mention big. D 
Doyoushutterwhenyourealizethatyouhavetoomuchfreetime? 
Do you hope that your life won't just be a flash in the pan? 
·r'
Why not join Scholastic's -photography staff? 
We offer everything you need to get started: 
• 
free technical training 

• 
use of all necessary equipment 


Apply today 1n• 303 LaFortune Assistant Editor position also open 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
13 


ii@lii~ii-i•E1S1i§li 

Scholastic's business manager lights up the town at South Bend's comedy hotspots in search ofthe next Tim Allen, JeffFoxworthy, or at least Jimmie Walker 
BY COLIN SMITH 
was pretty happy (beer can do that). Much happier, at least, than t is not everyday I find myself wandering in an alley in when I had made the eight dollar investment to get in. I think that downtown South Bend. I could see the yellow awning of Jim Burrows, the second comedian in the line-up, described the Tickler's Comedy Club and entered. It was a dreary and rainy place best. He felt the name suggested that he would be working at 
night and I guess what I needed was a good tickling. As a backup an adult bookstore that night, but, he said, the view overlooking 
plan, BW3 's was right downstairs. If tickling didn't work, drinking Osco Drugs made it all better. 
would. The inside of 
the club did not live up to the al­leyway entrance. There isn't much to say about the inside, no decora­tions stuck out in my mind. There were some pic­tures of comedi­ans, the most well-known being Bobcat Goldthwait. It was very classy and clean, but like the alley, it was also empty. This actu­ally worked to my advantage as I could get a seat close to the stage 
-luckily not too close. .; :, u, The show 
., ~ 

started at eight. rn :, 
Two hours, three 
comedians and 
four beers later I 

SCHOLASTIC MAGA.ZIN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 3, 1 9 9 6 

The opening comedian, Jen Kirwin, focused too much on smok­ing and phlegm, and didn't do a good job getting a reaction from the audience. Burrows was good, but neither comedian was close to the third -Billy Hutson, a man who described his appearence as "Fabio with AIDS" ora "good looking Stephie Graf." Iwas amazed at the accuracy of those two descriptions, although I shuddered at the thought of the second one. Regrettably, he danced around the stage and could not stop moving. Once he slowed down a little, though, I started to understand him and it turned out to be a good show. Unfortunately for Ticklers, Jimmie "Dy-no-mite" Walker was considered one of the biggest shows that the club would host. I'm just happy to hear he is still alive. 
The only experience that competes with Ticklers is located somewhere in the Scottsdale Mall. I entered the mall and wandered all over looking for The Funny Bone, before I found that I had to exit the mall again to get to the entrance. This club was more crowded than Tick­lers, even though it lacked the impressive en­trance. As I waited in line and watched the people in front of me argue about their reservations, it occured to me that reservations might have been a good idea, especially since I was with six other people. When I got to the front of the line I was ready to put up a fight to get tickets, but was pleasantly surprised when the. man at the ticket booth just smiled and sold me a ticket. When I entered the show, there was not much room inside, but the people at the door were very nice and quickly rearranged some tables so we could all sit together. The dark interior of the club was smaller and smokier than Ticklers, butlwas quite impressed with the ten foot portraits of comedi­ans hanging all over the walls, although I didn't understand how David Crosby's face got up there. 
The show started with Mike Preston who picked on two differentbachelorette parties in the audi­ence. He did a wonderful job ofmaking everyone laugh and warmed up the crowd for the main act. Before he could do that, though, he had to make ,, the drawings for the door prize. The club gave away some dinners, shirts and free tickets to other shows. Sadly, I was not a winner. 
The main act of the night was the Amazing Jonathan who dazzled the crowd with magic tricks while making us laugh. He started the show by bringing in his assistant, Psychic Saundra. Saundra forgot her blind fold and had to make do with two playing cards stapled over her eyes. The best trickofthe night was when he ate five razors and some string. He then pulled the string out of his mouth andthe razors were tied to it. The only problem •he. had was when he tried to put an audience member's twenty dollar bill back to­gether after ripping it, but what would you expect from a man who was drinks windex like it was his job. 
beer and specialty drinks, ranging from a Rubber Chicken to Knee Pads. Unfortunately for the underage comedy goers, as the sign at the entrance of The Funny Bone says, you must be 21 to enter the world of comedy here in South Bend. 
The comedy clubs were quite enjoyable. I would recomend both to anyone. Ticklers has the advantage of having a downtown location that is closer to other nightlife in South Bend. Of course, The Funny Bone seemed to have the advantage ofbetter comedians (if that matters). In any case, both clubs had expensive drinks. In all honesty, however, I can say that I would go back to both-that is, ifScholastic ever lets me leave my little cubbyhole in the office to make another field trip. 0 
i 
i 

Speaking of drinks, at The Funny Bone, all of JOKE'S ON YOU. Arandes often comments on the members of his audience to keep you who'can partake legally will enjoy buckets of his routines fresh. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
15 

ll•itii41-ii•liifl-------------------------­
scholastic compares food services at universities across the 
country -the good, the bad and Notre Dame 

BY MEREDITH SALISBURY-t's dinnertime, and you've been star­
ing at the clock for the past 10 min­
utes. But for some reason, you just can't decide which dining hall to eat at. Maybe you prefer the atmosphere of South Dining Hall. Perhaps the variety of food at North suits you better. You may be a student who firmly believes that the food service program is diverse and well-suited to stu­dents' nutritional and social needs. Or maybe you'reamongtheNotreDame students who feel that, North or South, it doesn't matter 
I you've simply eaten there too many 
I 

'I ­
I 
'I
'I times, and you need a change. 
As students continue to complain about the dining halls, Notre Dame administra­tors and student government offi­cials are considering the is­sue of a debit-card system that would enable students to use their meal plans at various campus eateries instead of just the two dining halls. And other changes may also be in the works. In a report sub­mitted to the Board of Trustees on Septem­ber26th, student governmentrecommended, among other things, the addition of a 24­hour dining facility that would increase so­cial space. 
With these possibilities in mind, Scholas­tic investigates how the Notre Dame meal plan and dining facilities compare to those at other colleges. 
Meal Plan Options 
While Notre Dame has a mandatory 21­meals-per-week plan for students living on 
. campus, many colleges offer alternatives that enable students to choose the meal plan that best fits their own diets and habits. At Northwestern University, on-campus stu­dents can purchase plans for 13, 16 or 19 meals per week. Duke University offers 5 or 12 meals per week and gives students points for the rest of their meals. Senior Maureen Durkin feels that having no meal plan option is limiting. "I don't eat 21 meals a 
says, ex­
plaining that she 
would prefer to have a 
choice of 14 or 21 meals in­
stead. 

Director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski estimates that the average Notre Dame student eats 16 or 17 meals per week. However, he feels that it is not wasteful to have a 21-meal plan when students gener­ally use only 80 percent of it. He explains that the food services department is aware that many meals are not used and that this is incorporated into the cost of the meal plan -students do not pay for 21 meals per week. In fact, says Prentkowski, "if every student started eating 21 meals, we prob­ably wouldn't have enough money to cover it." 
Students may only eat 16 or 17 meals, says Prentkowski, but because they are en­titled to 21 meals they have greater latitude in deciding which meals to eat. He says that students "only pay for what [they] eat," so the inclusive meal plan gives students "all kinds of freedom and flexibility" to eat where and when they want. With access to all 21 meals, they do not have to worry about how many meals they have eaten or how many meals they 
have left. 
Junior Neil Zender, however, believes that a meal-plan option would be preferable for students. "It costs a lot of money" to come to Notre Dame, Zender says, "and people should be able to choose." 
Prentkowski explains that meal-plan al­ternatives actually are not economically ef­ficient. The plan cost is based on break-even costs for running the dining facilities, he states. "The cost offood is a minimal part of running the dining hall." Introducing differ­ent meal plans, says Prentkowski, would only save the student a s_mall amount of money, which would be proportional to neither th_e cost of the meal plan nor the number of meals purchased. Since food prices account for so.little of the meal plan cost, "sometimes the cost between two meal 

plans is only about $100," Prentkowski ex­their PENNcards at the dining hall or at a The Huddle, for example, is not designed to plains. food court called Chats. The PENNcard is accommodate thousands of students. He not accepted at local retail operations, but explains that Notre Dame is unique in hav­Swipe a Cappuccino university dining facilities themselves have ing such a high percentage ofits students on 
Inconjun"tion with the various meal plans extended hours to satisfy those middle-of­board plans. In Prentkowski's opinion, the offered, several colleges use systems of the-night hunger attacks. In addition to be­retail operations found at other universities "points" or "dining dollars" to give students ing open continuously from 7:30 a.m. to would not be able to handle the number of more flexibility in their food choices. Gen­7:30 p.m., Penn cafeterias are open from students who would patronize them here. erally, a student's ID card is also used as a midnight to 2:00 a.m. Penn freshman Sameer The dining halls, on the other hand, are type ofdebit card. If, for example, a Colum­Sethna says, "Since everyone gets so hun­specifically equipped to handle the sheer bia University student buys a 185-meal­gry by that time, [having the dining halls volume of students with meal plans. per-semester plan, he receives 275 points open] is very useful." 
r on his ID card. He can use these points at The University of Syracuse has an espe­Places to Go and Things to Eat any of the dining facilities at Columbia, cially far-reaching card program. The Syra­Students at Notre Dame seem unable to
f including vending machines and various cuse SuperCard has a debit strip that can be reach a consensus on the variety of univer­campus eateries. Each time he purchases used at snack bars, the food court, dining sity food. Freshman Greg Hengehold, con­something, the corresponding number of halls and the cafe. Money on the SuperCard sidering the similar lunch and dinner menus points (one point equals one dollar) is de­can also be used to operate washing ma­served at North and South, vocalizes the ducted from the card's value. chines, dryers and Xerox machines. Stu­wish to have more variety in the dining Zender likes the idea of what he calls the dents can even transfer money from the halls. Freshman Nicolette Modes takes the "punch system," in which students pay only SuperCard to a special vending strip for use opposite view, however, saying that there is for the food they eat rather than paying for at campus vending machines. "It's really something for everybody in the ND dining a meal plan they frequently do not use. convenient -you can swipe your facilities. Many ND students agree that a card that cappuccino or put your laundry on your The University of Illinois at Urbana­could be used at places like the Huddle, card," comments Syracuse freshman Jenni­Champaign, with anon-campus undergradu­Allegro or Waddick's would beconvenient, fer Liebeskind. "You don't need to carry ate student population of 25,517, has quite especially because the hours these eateries change anywhere." a medley offoods. With a total of31 differ­are open better accommodate students' of­Prentkowski cites logistical problems as ent eateries at which the U of I meal plan is ten hectic schedules or late-night cravings. the reason a meal card could not be used at · · accepted, this university has an elaborate Sophomore Mark Loftus says that "a card campus eateries other than the dining halls. selection for its students; Fifteen of these 
1 
1 
-
At the Univer-f sityofPennsylva-( nia, students may '' · 
buy meals using IT'S NOT LIKE MOM'S COOKING. Sophomores Brian Sheedy, Sean Leonard and Octavio Martin trudge through another meal in North Dining Hall. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, -1996 • i i
17 ; 


food places are specialty res­taurants, ranging from Scott's New York Deli and La Creperie to Wok on the Wild Side and the Late-Night Coffeehouse. Illinois also has seven dining halls and anine­station food court. The U ofl program consists ofl4-or20­meal plans. Each meal is de­ducted from the ID card on a meal-by-meal basis rather than on a dining dollars or points system. 
Duke University, with 6,085 on-campus under­graduates, also has an exten­sive food system. Students can use their meal plans at several cafes, Burger King, 

$4000 '-$3750 
ro 
Q) 

>-. $3500 
-'­Cl.. 

Q) $3250 
en 
0 

u $3000 
C: 
ro 

0... $2750 
Q) 

rn $2500
2 

$2250 $2000 
How Notre Dame Stacks Up 

School (meals per week) 
Syracuse (19) 

dining halls, various snack bars, delis and Italian and Tex-Mex eater­ies. Duke sophomore Allyson Carroll com­ments on the variety of foods offered and the ease of using a points system, which is available to sophomores, juniors and se­niors. Freshmen at Duke have a mandatory 
· meal plan, while other students may choose a combination offive or 12 meals and points. Carroll comments, "Basically, the meal plan at Duke works well." Student complaints that more variety can be found at other schools are not realistic, according to Prentkowski. He claims that the "menu in the dining halls far surpasses those at other universities" and that these facilities have many more types of food available than retail operations have. Prentkowski states that Notre Dame has "at least four orfive times as much variety as [a place like] Yale." Sophomore Megan Barry concurs, feeling that there is less variety at other schools because so much of what is available is fast food. 
Eating and Social Space 

Although the main goal of any college dining service is undoubtedly to feed its students, many universities believe that eat­ing is a social event and they have incorpo­rated a great deal of social space into their dining facilities. 
Northwestern's Norris Center is one ex­ample of such a place. Several eateries, including Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Starbuck' s Coffee, are located on the ground level of the college student center. Univer­sity information describes the Norris Center as "the perfect environment for meeting friends, studying or just relaxing between classes" and advertises the food court as perfectforanyone "seeking asnackormeal." 
Similarly, the University ofMichigan has a student union that houses, among other things, a restaurant area with sections such as Little Caesar's, Wendy's and Subway. 
Duke University does not have the same level of retail operations as Northwestern and Michigan, but it too provides social space for its students. One of Duke's cafes is, according to university literature, "founded on the notion that fine coffee and thoughtful conversation would bring to­gether Duke's diverse community of schol­ars, professionals and support staff." Duke also features a full-service cappuccino bar for library study breaks; the Rathskeller, an eatery with 7 TVs; and the Kudzu Tavern, which has newly-installed pool tables and a stereo system. 
At Notre Dame, the LaFortune Stud.ent Center serves as the main social area for students. LaFortune offers a variety of fa­cilities to students, including eateries such as the Huddle and Allegro, the Little Store, a video game room and lounge areas. Many students, however, feel thatLaFortune does not meet their social needs. Freshman Kristen Stanley likes the atmosphere of the study areas, but does not feel the student center is conducive to socializing. "I don't think there really is a place on campus I'd go to hang out with my friends," she com­ments. If LaFortune eateries were on the meal plan, however, Stanley says she would probably go there more often. Sophomore 
D.B. Sanders suggests that LaFortune's hours, which end at 2 a.m. except for the Huddle, could be extended to give students a place to go on weekends after parietals. Senior Michelle Venci says that she, too, would go to LaFortune more often if she could use her meal plan. "You could eat with friends from off-campus or profs or anyone who doesn't have a meal plan at the dining hall." 
A Growing Trend 
During the past few years, more schools have begun offering more eatery selection and alternative meal plans for their stu­dents. Illinois, for instance, only recently adopted its extensive andfiexible food sys­tem in response to student requests for more variety in meal plans and dining facilities. In an attempt to encourage students to re­main on campus, Yale University imple­mented new 10-and 14-meal "flex plans" to give students more mealtime options.Notre Dame has made some progress, too. Three years ago, the university began its Grab-n­Go program, which is now used by students more than 1,000 times each day. 
While the administration and student gov­ernment consider new food services and additional dining areas, student life will continue as it is now. 
But look at the clock. Dinnertime is al­most over, and you still haven't decided on South or North. Perhaps you 'II find it easier to simply toss a coin and let gravity decide for you. One hint: use a nickel -the depic­tion of Jefferson's Monticello on the back looks eerily like South Dining Hall. 

'I • • • • • 
:::: ' • • : -' • ~ I, : 1· ' • • I ' • 

Seeking Student Space 
SHELLING OUT THE DOUGH. Cash 
transactions at places like The Little Store 
may be a thing of the past if the debit card 
proposed by student government is 
implemented. 
don't we have something like this in LaFortune?" 
We have all heard passing complaints about the lack of social space and food alternatives. But these complaints are un­founded. We have more than enough choice -or at least that's what the university says. 
Now, we know the truth. Considering the national prominence of Notre Dame, our on-campus student dining and social facili­ties are pathetic. Compare our facilities to any respectable American college or uni­versity, and the inequality is apparent. Com­pare our facilities to any national top 25 university, and it is downright sad -even embarrassing. 
We are locked into a meal plan that al­most no one uses completely. The univer'­sity is well aware of this. In fact, they plan on it. Dave Prentkowski, director of food services, insists that because the typical student does not eat 21 meals a week, they can feed everyone at a lower cost. Thus, Prentkowski says, students "only pay for what they eat." 
Am I missing something? Is there some kind of new math that I am unaware of? Sure, students only pay for what they eat. 
dents studying and socializing. The saddest. But the student who eats 12 meals a week 
BY MATI SZABO Something must be institutionally wrong in pays almost twice a much per meal than the 
We are in a sad state of affairs. order for students to actually choose to be student who somehow manages to make it During a recent late night at the down there. to the dining hall 315 times a semester. library, I was struck with a sud­A few weeks ago, I was in Lula's Cafe­Outside of the dining halls, we have 
den need for caffeine. I descended into the sipping some pretty good coffee, listening Waddick's, a quasi-coffee shop usually in­
vending dungeon known as "The Pit," and to Cod 'n Salsa perform and casually chat­habited by graduate students and professors 
plunked quarters into a machine as I punched ting with some friends. Then the topic came -hardly an undergraduate hangout. There 
in my order for what is called "Cafe Mo­up -as it so often does. "Wouldn't it be is the Huddle, which serves a purpose but 
cha." Sad. As I looked around, I saw.the nice to have a place like Lula's on campus," suffers as well from an influx ofgraduates at 
stale-smelling, poorly lit room full of stu-said one person. "Yeah," said another. "Why prime eating hours. Has anyone ever eaten 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
19 

at that Chinese place? Didn't think so. And 
then there is Allegro. I hate to be so nega­
tive, but that place is the sorriest excuse for 
a collegiate coffee shop I have ever seen ­
bar none. 

So what can we do about this? A logical 
solution would be to open up space in 
LaFortune to competing private businesses. 
For example, Starbuck's Coffee could rent 
out one of the suites in LaFortune. They 
would pay the university a huge fee, and 
students could work, study, socialize and 
eat in a warm, well-kept collegiate environ­
ment. But this is impossible. You see, Alle-· 
gro and the Little Store already sell coffee. 
Starbuck's would provide competition to 
the University Food Services -and that 
violates university regulations. 

In the near future, we will have a debit card meal plan that will allow us to eat some ofour meals inLaFortune. This is definitely a step in the right direction. If we stop at a debit card, however, we might have more problems than we do now. As we know, LaFortune is jam-packed with graduate and off-campus students during lunch hours. If _every undergraduate is able to use his or her meal plan to eat at The Huddle, we could 
easily have massive lunchtime chaos in the student center. Prentkowski agrees. "The Huddle is not designed for thousands of students," he says. 
It is only a matter of time before the debit card system will be implemented. And since it is extraordinarily unlikely that LaFortune will adjust from within, we will have a serious problem. 
On September 26, student government submitted a report to the Board of Trustees requesting, among other things, more social space. The report cites that "the best oppor­tunities for entertainment and activity are off-campus." If our best opportunities for entertainment are in South Bend, then we really have to evaluate our on-campus situ­ation. 
All of the student body's recommenda­tions are based on President Malloy's plan for the direction of Notre· Dame -the Colloquyfor the Year 2000. Recommenda­tion 25 ofthe Colloquy reads, "The Univer­sity s_hould seriously consider a plan to create additional social space for students in a centralized location." Itcould not be more straightforward -a call for more student social space directly from the president of the school. 
The student body's recent report to the Trustees is an attempt to give Malloy's mandate some teeth. It clearly · and con­cisely defines the university's inadequa­cies. But the report's specific recommenda­tions are often overzealous. For example, one recommendation calls for "remodeling the current bookstore into a 24-hourfacility containing food service ofall types, a bowl­ing alley, large dance club and multipur­pose room, club office space and small lounges equipped with televisions and video cassette recorders." Clearly, a logistical im­possibility. And yes, it really does call for a bowling alley. However, the recommenda­tions are worthy of action because they are grounded in real and serious problems with the Notre Dame undergraduate experience. 
Responsible and ambitious reform is nec­essary now. New social space and food services will not only benefit the student body, but the image of the university as a whole. We must urge the president and the executive officers to take the student body's report into careful consideration and ex­ecute it as soon as possible. We deserve better. Notre Dame deserves better. 0 

Talent waiting in the wings? 
Scholastic is looking for budding Anna Quindlands, Grantland Rices, -Bob Woodwards and Dave Barrys. 
If you would like your work published and your talent discovered, write for Scholastic Magazine. 
Just call 1-7569 or stop by 303 LaFortune on Mondays through Fridays from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 


And if you're really good, Scholastic is also accepting appli.cations for Campus Life Editor and Assistant Campus Life Editor. 



SPORTS .. 

Splinters, from the Press Box 
A roundup of the week in sports September 24 to October 1 edited by Jeremy Dixon 
MEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Sept. 27 at #13 Indiana L 0-3 Sept. 27 Marquette w 5-0 Sept. 29 Georgetown w 8-0 
Key Player: Lazo Alavanja had two goals Key Player: Forward Amy V anLaecke had 
for the Hoosiers in the first 11 minutes. six assists in the weekend blowouts and is Key Stat: The Irish have lost eight consecu­tied for the team lead in points with 29. tive games against intrastate rival Indiana, Key Stat: The team outshot Marquette 24­which is winning the series 17-1-1. 2 and Georgetown 25-2 in their dominating 
Up Next: The men look to improve upon weekend. their 3-0-2 Big East record as they travel to Up Next: Down to Tobacco Road tomor­Syracuse.· row for games versus the Tar Heels and #15 
Duke. 

VOLLEYBALL · CROSS COUNTRY 
NO MATCHES LAST WEEK NO MEETS LAST WEEK 
Key Player: Junior Angie Harris topped the Key Player: Junior Jason Rexing paced the 1,000 kill mark on September 21, becoming Irish in the National Catholic Invitational the seventh such player in Irish history. with a winning time of 24:29. Key Stat:The #10 team is ranked eighth Key Stat: The men have won seven of the nationally in blocking, averaging 3.53 per last nine NCis and the women have won game. four of the last five. Up Next: Back to Big East action with Up Next: The Notre Dame Invitational to­
· home matches against Georgetown and morrow, includingMichigan,Dukeand West Villanova. Virginia. 
What They Said: "I didn'tthinkI [held], but ifthe official called it, I guess I did." -Irish · defensive back Ty Goode on his penalty that negated Autry Denson's punt return late in the fourth quarter against" Ohio State. 
What We Read: "If you have attended a game lately, any major college or professional game, you kn.ow who they are: the autograph pests and collectibles creeps, those incessant sports stalkers who won't be happy until Mickey Mantle's remains are exhumed and sold at auction." -Gerry Callahan, Sports Illustrated 
Dix's Pick: It won '.t be an easy weekend for the women's soccer team in Durham. The Tar Heels come r~ady to play and jump out on top early in the first half. After halftime adjustments, fre.shman Jenny Streiff er puts in the equalizer offa comer kick. The Irish hold on and come home with a tie under their belts. 
Hiro's Hunch: In another highly-anticipatedmatchup between the Irish and Tar Heels, the visitors finally score an offensive goal against Carolina, but are able to generate little else. The home-state advantage proves to be the difference as the Heels triumph 2-1. Ifonly we could get them to come to South Bend. 
Brad Hardin · The sophom~re took second place in the Big EastConference Champion­
. ship to lead the golf teain to its sec­. ··ond straight Big East title. He shot a 70 and_a 7_4 at the Avenel course in 
·.... Bethesda, Maryland.•· 
Athletes of the -Week. 
. _ .Cindy Daws . 
The two-yelli senior captain scored · · four timestliis weekend; knocking · in two goals ·against both Georgetown and Marquette and adding an assist 
··against the Golden Eagles. She . is tied for seC()Dd on the team:in goals withnine:· ·. · · 


SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ I.NE ¦ 0 CT OBER 3, 1 9 9 6 
21 




Rl~VISITED 


irens wailed. Firetrucks came. LaFortune was evacuated. 
.:. 

Therewas nofire Mondaynight, butthe smokepouringout 
of the Student Union Board office. proved (in the most literal sense) that the group has things heating up this year. 
The false alarm was due to an overzealous -smoke machine set off during a SUB celebration announcing the successful booking of Rusted Root. The Pittsburgh-based band, whose hit single "Send Me OnMyWay" from the albumWhen I Woke gave themnational recognition, will bring their "world-basedmusic.with a slightpop feel" to Stepan Center on October 30. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
I , . 

Booking the band, like organizing all concerts, brought many try to revive pride for the Irish. Four years later, a student's mother difficultiesasidefromthe"fire.""Asfarasbookingpeopletocome sent an article to him about this Gaelic event and the spirit of to campus, we have to cooperate with agents to find dates which AnTostal erupted into a full week of mud-wrestling, keg-throwing, correspond with the entertainers' schedules and the dates that are crazy springtime fun. For the past few years, though, AnTostal available to come to Notre Dame," says Board Manager Allyson seemed to be a disappointment due to administrative regulations Luck. and lack offunds -most notably, the lack of a big-name year-end 
"Often difficulties arise when entertainers are unable to include concert for the past two years. SUB hopes to tum this trend around NotreDameintheirtoursorourbudgetscannotaccommodatetheir as AnTostal celebrates its 30th anniversary from April 20 to 26. fees," she adds. "Some events require permission and active nego-Kicking the event off with the Fisher Regatta and concluding tiation with Risk Management and Security in order to create the with the finals of Bookstore Basketball, AnTostal chairperson environment which the university deems suitable and safe. Pro-Shannan Ball envisions increased participation and an enjoyable grammers put a lot of time and effort into coordinating events and atmosphere not seen on campus for years. She is examining the accommodating the interests of students at Notre Dame." possibility of expanding the festival to an entire week, resurrecting 
Nonetheless, SUB is indeed on fire, following up on a successful AnTostal traditions, and providing an atmosphere for students to go string of events from last year -a streak that included landing De crazy the week before finals. LaSoul,BarenakedLa-: _______________ .... __ _____ ________________________________________________________ _ "We're trying to bring back the
dies, Toad the Wet I 
N..A. MISSION. 
Sprocket, Freddie o· _ . · · · • • • mudpits, but I don't Jones Band, know how successful Violent Femmes we'll be," Ball and last year's says, concerning headliner, Billy the prognosis of Joel. According the now-re­to Campus En­stricted event. tertainment Co­The SUB com­ordinator Eric mittee plans to Nass, the Bos­provide many ton-based group new ideas that Division Street, haven't yet been who will be -formalized and launched na­hopes to bring tionally in campus bands to March, will play the quads and on campus No­theme dinners to vember 2. "You the dining halls. canjusttell from They also hope
,>1·

their CD that to host campus they're going to tournaments and hit it big," Nass dances, bring says. "They're :-,:,,,. back bouncy air sort of a cross ~f?"fRJ[tir M·L -games and give 
between Toad the Wet Sproc-ket and the Samples. We're get­ting them for a really ~mall show, which we really lucked out with." Aside from concerts, SUB has an array of activities, both new and old, planned for the up­coming year. 
The one major eyent that SUB hopes to re­tool is AnTostaJ. Started during Ireland's 1953 depression when Irish spirit was lagging, AnTostal was the re­
..... _, ___;_,. . ! 
away some free

!RUST BELT. Rustlad Root storms onto campus later this month. 
stuff. "We pretty much The SUB_mission statement reads, "The Student Union Board shall enhance 
have to rebuild . .:university Hfe by providing student services and intellectual, cultural, and 
AnTostal; last year'entertaining experiences, reflecting the interests and needs:ofthe students and 
was our foundation the ND community." Though we're not sure what the intellectual and cultural 
and it will take a few value of The Cable Guy is, SUB's tentative fall line-up looks to fulfill that 
years before we can mission. 
. . build it up to where it 
: .. . 
once was," says Ball. 

-Oct 3-5 The Cable Gµy _ .. 
"Our goal is to fightOct. 10-12 ·The Nutty Professor the apathy, because in 
Oct. 30 Husted Root concert South Bend after foot­ball season, this place 
Oct31 ~Nov 2·1ndependeoce lJay 
dies. The campus is -.Nov: 1 · Comedian Taylor Mason _ pretty much dead [and] people sit
Nov. 2 Play, As You Like It, Washington HaH 
around in their dorm 

.Nov. 7-9 The Rock.
sponse from the coun-rooms. Our goal is to SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
23 


get them off their butts, get them outside, get them partying and but many are on the brink of breaking into national recognition. celebrate the fact that they survived winter and the year with their "[The Student Union Board] would like to work on bringing friends." diverse events to campus; programs that have not been attempted-
Aside from AnTostal, SUB 's event schedule includes the usual for example, an Elvis Presley impersonator," Luck says. "Right mix of campus favorites as well as the revival of some old now the programmers are working hard to organize their commit­traditions. Staples such as the Collegiate Jazz Festival and Sopho-tees, contacting those students who expressed an interest in SUB at more Literary Festival .... ________ __ .... ----··----______ __ _ __________ __ activities night." 
;:: ~~::h~;0 ~:::.b=~~ !ANTOSTAL, ANYONE? 
tr;d~::::.a~~~:~r:~:  
plans  are  underway  to  you that all work and no  
bringbacktheBluesFes­tival. Though the Blues Fest hasn't been around since the '70s, SUB hopes to revive the mu­ · · · · ·. · . "OUR .GOAL IS TO GET [STUDENTS] OFF THEIR BUTTS, {;ET THEM. ·  play can make for a dull year. And with plans con­tinually in the works, it maybeincreasinglyeasier to take that much-needed  
~~~e~~l~~:~;;s~~:~~  ,  OUTSIDE, GET THEM PARTYING.  stul~db~~ promises to  

;~~:;~~~:::~:eh:~:: i AND CELEBRATE THE FACT THAT ~:;~::~~=:~~~:~~e;a­~!c~:b:~~ht of blues in :THEY SURVIVED WINTER AND THEl SUB is currently finaliz-
All ofthe SUB 's plan-ing the contract with 
ning and organizing is i YEAR WITH THEIR FRIENDS." Rusted Root and, at press part of the Board's main ----------------------------------time, no information on
goal to improve and ticket sales was available. maintainthequalityandquantityoftheirprograms. Alongwiththe Details on prices and distribution should be announced by next weekly movies, free coffee on Monday mornings and Acoustic week. Cafe every Thursday night, the organization sponsors bands to No specific dates or times were available for the Elvis imperson­play monthly at the laid-back atmosphere of the Loft, located in the ator either, though he was seen last week at the Dunkin' Donuts in Lafortune ballroom. Some of the bands may not be well-known, Elkhart. 


Bruno's Pizza 




Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in from 4 -2 a.m. weekdays, **1 18-INCH PIZZAS WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $14.00 EVERY DAY** 119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus} 
273-3890 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties & banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY}** 2610 Prairie Ave. 
288~-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our-pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 




discover that Ernest meant bookstore. Since he's "The Single Guy" he decides to spend some time at St. Mary's, but leaves shortly 
. TU Nl. l·N TONIGHT after because he realizes that ifhe develops 
Th:urs· d.·av::::shi:::::::etcancelled. 
· George gets four tickets to the Rutgers 
Must See NU 
The Golden Dome goes prime time 
With the ~ew faUTV. season no.win.full · course, everyone comes along for the ride, swing,. NBC look,s to be the top net.. but in the car, Ross and Rachel have a fight work yet again.-But alas, their post-about religious differences: "Do they even Ohio State-Notre Dame line-up includes allow Jews out there?" he asks, doing his the likes of Air Force, Pitt and Rutgers-lame Woody Allen impersonation. Much games that don't ~xactly look to be ratings laughter from the audience. Meanwhile, busters. So what's a network executive to Chandler and Monica share witty remarks do? Why, market the hell out of what · about various trendy things. Ross and already works! By sending the NBC Must Rachael kiss and make up at the Grotto See TV Thursday line-up out to South while Tori A.,rnos plays in the background, Bend for a week, you'd )lave. a sweeps arid Joey turns down the job, saying,"l'd week. dream that would make Brandon rather be unemployed and live with you Tartikoff crawl into a fetal position." guysthariworkoutherealone."("Awwwwt. . OOB's suggestioridor plotoutlines go goes the audie!]Ce) "Andbesides, who,d get something like this... · · the foosball table?" (Roars of laughter.) Credits roil over Phoebe singing at Acoustic Friends (8:00 ET/7:00 CT) Cafe. •· Joey gets a callback for the weatherman · . position ata South Bend TV station; "They The Single Guy . (8:30 ET/7:30 CT) ~aptme to bethe Dean ofLo~al Weather~" ErnestBorgriinetellsJori.athanSilverman .. "The de'an of local weather;,• Chandler that ther~•s ·•great inoney to be made in snidely retorts, ''didn't you see T~isier?'' books out at Notre Dame. So, of course, he . game from a friend at work and wants .to take Jerry and the gang. "You want to go ... and see Notre Dame ... play Rutgers?" asks Jerry sarcastically. The group goes and, of course, wackiness ensues. Elaine falls in love with a man .who winds up being in the seminary,"He's a priest, Jerry! A priest! Oh yeah, I'm goin' to hell for this"; Jerry tries to give away his ticket, but gets ar.,­rested for.scaiping, "I wasn't scaaalping;" he humorously whines; George winds up sitting behind the flagpole,"Fah hundred miles and I hafta sit behind the flagpole! 1'.his is just great! Great!"; and that wacky Kramer winds up being the man with the orangegloveforNBC,haltingthegamefor ten minutes because he won't get off the field. During this ten minute in,terval, we switch to San Francisco where Brooke Shields is horrie watching the game. This of course leads right into ..; 
Suddenly Susan (9:3.0 ET/8;30 CT) 
Susan is stuck at home watching the g~e imd complaining ab_011t her life. The catch . is; this_ week, . she .. says something 
.. (Much laughter fyom:the ~udierice). Of leaves New York to c:ome out here only to ' fanny/ ' '' : . ' . 
. . .. ~·: 
·w·eh~reat_Scho/astic~adpl:mnedto~n 
N
~ a· J1IDmie Walker ·mterv1ew for this week's issue until we abruptly learned . . . · ·. · that Mr: Walker does riot do interviews. otre· Dame finance Professor· Richard Sheehan crunched some numbers and came up . Um; excuse us Jim, but you 're not exactly ,with .the.~? m9st v~~~?le sp~~~s ~anchi.ses. Thoug~-th~ ~ro.s dcm~inate the list, thr.ee , o~erexP,osed,. overwhelm~d by the 111edia . colleges made_the hst and belie\l'e 1t ornot, Notre Dame 1$ 9n that list(shocker, huh?)., , or even considered: for 13ounty commer­•·.. Orifestfuiated value: ameasly $213"m111ion. BothFloridifan;dMfohigan tank above US; but-Ciali;;" Perhaps we're .a:: little bitter;· but . after putti~g thefinishing touches 'orithat stadium project, hete's·h~pin:g we cantopple the Jirtnnie; next time save :-us: "the Mru:lon -• Wolv~rines. And if that.'~oesri'fwork, tlier~• s an.entire side ofthe Hbrary that's just ripe -.· • Btarido _tragic-celebrity J~c~de ·and ·s\Val~ 
fora Nike swoosh and ''JustDo fr• blurb. -·::, Iowyourpnde.Afterall.thoseGdodTimes· -.· .-..---------,---~--___,,.-i:~ninsaren'texa6tly.agingwiihgrace.:Uritil . 
. So~,:ce: Sports lllustrdtei~ept. 23; 1996 ' ' -B Y.·.· ••. c·.·._·u· .n· '1·.•S. M·Y E R s ' ' he:icttirile,have yourpeoplecal.l bllrpeople 
.· ·. ·.. an:d we'lldo lunch. 'kay? Dy-no.:.mite! .. 
25

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 

lti1ai1§1•J§t•,4•t•,P 
Dine-In Magic 

License to Fill ... Your Belly
,II 
i 

BY KRis KAzLAUSKASSomewhere in Mishawaka, a woman's stomach is growling. She orders a Chick-Fil-A value meal ( super-sized) with Fan ta as her beverage ofchoice-and I come running. Nearby, aScholasticMaga­zine editor gets a hankering for barbecue beef brisket, cole slaw and a refreshing can of Nestea -and I am there. Elsewhere, a lonely security guard feels a burning desire 
I am desired by women, feared by Papa John, and respected by all. 
for wonton soup with a side of pork fried rice (lightly seasoned) -and I deliver. 
I am the Dine-In Delivery Man, defender ofjustice, purveyor ofnutritional goodness, and deliverer of food for over 30 of Michiana's finest restaurants. I am desired by women, feared by Papa John's, and re­spected by all. 
Unfortunately, I am also an ex-employee, defrocked of my food service wings last May. But for two short months I led the maverick life, often operating beyond legal limits to bring nourishment and good cheer to the people of Indiana. Even now, it is difficult to accept that the Dine-In days are gone, but the "272-2-EAT" tattooed across my midriff serves as a bittersweet reminder that I, now but an empty shell ofa man, once knew happiness. 
The concept behind Dine-In is simple enough for a young child or a relatively bright cow to comprehend: I pick up food from a restaurant, deliver it to hungry hu­mans, rinse, repeat. Though the concept sounds easy, I was told by Larry (the Grand Dragon of Dine-In) that it might take sev­eral months to master the subtleties and. nuances. 
"You reach a point," Larry said, "where morals and safety must take a back seat to service, for when you are willing to drive 65 mph in a crowded school zone to deliver a gyro, only then have you reached Dine-In enlightenment." 
I was not sure what Larry was getting at, but I knew that he saw something special in me. "You are only a seedling now, my son, · but one day you will blossom into a mighty Dine-In tree." Hi,s poetic words were honey to my ears, and I accepted the challenge. 
On my first day, I was so giddy I nearly puked. Larry could not emphasize enough the importance ofthe mission we were about to undertake, and as I sat in Dine-In head­quarters, I nervously fidgeted with my blue Dine-In mesh hat, nearly breaking the.ad­justable backing. 
With gusto, Larry bellowed, "Gentlemen, you are in the midst of a war -the war against hunger. Be strong, men, and deliver well, because if people don't get food, they starve. And when they starve, they die!" 
Inspired, I slipped into my brand spankin' new satin Dine-In jacket. I didn't have my name embroidered on it yet, but that was just a matter of time. I was given a vast assortment of insulated "food-stays-hot" box-type things, a credit card machine, and a walkie talkie. I was informed that my call sign was "KL-17," and whenever I radioed into base, I was to identify myself as such. After suctioning the glowing Dine-In sign to my car window and doing a radio check, I gave Larry a thumbs-up and drove off. 
"Good luck, rookie!" sneered one of the veterans, as he passed me in his 1977 Pinto Country Squire Limited Edition Series, his feathered hair blowing in the breeze. That would be the last time anyone called me rookie. 
They started me off with easy runs. I would go to Chili's for an order, or to Hi Ho Chop Suey for another, but gradually I be­came the wingman of this food-serving squadron. When some ignorant driver for­got the ranch dressing with the "Taste of Hacienda," it was KL-17 to the rescue. When a local Hell's Angels chapter tried to steal KL-25's pizza box, it was KL-17 on duty. And when KL-9 was mysteriously run over, it was KL-17 who delivered the rest of his orders. 
Ofcourse, such responsibility lends itself to danger. I was a bit startled one evening when I was verbally abused by a gargan­tuan, Jabba the Hutt-esque woman who blamed me for her ice-cold burrito. Before she could go back inside and get what I figured would be either a turkey leg or a gun, I was on the road again, delivering food, delivering smiles-deliveringmemo­ries up through the end of my tour of duty. 
The satin jacket has long since been re­tired, and the mesh hat sits with pride on the mantle back home, but one truth is immu­table: You can fire the man from the Dine­In, but you can't steal the spiritual "Dine-In fire" from the man. . 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 






G 


Play, "The Last Angry Brown Hat," by Alfredo Harnos. 
Without a game this weekend, good 
O'Laughlinn Auditorium. SMC. 8 p.m. Film, "Mission: Impossible." Cushing. 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
luck finding something to do. Some 
FRIDAY-October 4 

suggestions:
Volleyball, ND vs. Georgetown Film, "12 Monkeys." Snite. 8 p.m. and 1 O p.m. 
Blessed are the Cheesemakers: 
Film, "Cable Guy." Cushing. 8 p.m. and 1"0:30 p.m. 
~ Director Terry Gilliam's 12 Monkeys 
(.)
SATURDAY -October 5 

·0 is showing at the Snite. After that rent 
Play, "2 Non-Blondes." O'Laughlin Auditorium. SMC. Bp.m. 
c3 his Monty Python's The Life ofBrian. 
Film, "12 Monkeys." Snite. 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
~u, Compare and Contrast. 
Film, "Cable Guy." Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
:i... 
0
SUNDAY -October 6 
.:== 
Volleyball, ND vs. Villanova 

-c More Bruce Willis: LastMan Stand-
Guest Artists Series, Cincinnati Percussion Group, Annenberg 
w ing is a remake of a great Akira
Auditorium. 2 p.m. 

Kurosawa film called Yojimbo, which
MONDAY-October 7 
Film, 1142nd Street." Snite. 7 p.m. 

is both a good movie and a fun word 
Film, "Duck Soup." Snite. 9 p.m. 

to say. Yojimbo. Ha ha. Yojirilbo. 
TUESDAY -October 8 
Film, "Napoleon." Snite. 7 p.m. Film, "Olympic Summer." Snite. 9 p.m. 
-· CD 

University Park West: "B' 277-7336. 
• 
"2 Days in the Valley," R, 2:15, 4:35, 7:00, 9:30 

• 
"A Time To Kill," R, 2:00, 5:00, 8:00 • "Jack," PG-13, 2:30, 9:20 


• 
"Island of Dr. Moreau," PG-13, 5:00, 7:15 


University. Park East: "B' 277-7336. 
• 
"First Wive's. Club," PG, 2:10, 3:00, 4:35, 5:30, 7:00, 8:00, 9:25, 10:30 

• 
"Th.e Glim.mer Man," R, 2:20, 3:10, 5:00, 5:30, 7:10, 7:40, 9:15, 9:50, 11 :15. 

• 
"Bulletproof," R, 2:30, 4:50, 7:30, 9:35, 11 :30 

• 
"Extreme Measures," R, 2:00, 4:45, 7:20, 10:00 


New Student Rate: $4, Monday­Thursday with a student ID! 
THE 
ss 
I C 
LR YE 
E E 
.RN 

Movies 1 0: "B' 254-9685. 
• 
"Maximum Risk," R, 12:45, 3:30, 5:45, 8:00, 10:30 

• 
"Mighty Ducks 3," PG, 12:35, 2:55, 5:25, 7:45, 

9:55 • "Emma," PG, 1 :20, 7:20 

• 
"Independence Day," PG-13, 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 

• 
"Tin Cup," R, 1 :15, 4:15, 7:05, 10:05. 

• 
"First Kid," PG, 12:30, 2:50, 5:15, 7:30, 10:15 • "Spitfire Grill,"* PG-13, 4:10, 9:45. • "Bogus," PG, 1:10, 3:45, 7:25, 9:55 

• 
"Escape From L.A.," R, 7:55, 10:20 

• 
"Last Man Standing," R, 12:40, 3:00, 5:20, 7:40, 10:10 

• 
"Rich Man's Wife," 12:50, 3:05, 5:30, 7:50, 


10:25 • "Bogus," PG, 1:10, 3:45 
* No Passes 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 3, 1996 
27 


. . -~ 
r'""\ • , ' • • "I ._ •• • 



Put Down Your Piccolo and Fight Like a Man 
We've got our money on the drum line v 
BY CHRISTIAN DALLAVIS 
. Battle ofthe Bands 
The Macarena was pretty cool (not), but can our band fight? Earlier this month, sev­eral Alabama State and Jackson State band members were treated for what police de­scribed as "instrument-inflicted injuries" after their season opener. Apparently, mem­bers of the Alabama State marc~ing band were a little upset after their team lost 40-0, and the smack began to fly as the bands boarded their buses. As the tubas and wood­winds began to do some damage, more than 80 police officers came to quell the riot, but no charges were filed. Next time I see our band put down their instruments, it better be to kick a little butt and not for that obnox­ious dance. 
. Watch Out, Jenny McCarthy 
A junior interior design major at the Uni­versity ofOklahoma was recently "stripped" of her sorority privileges for posing nude in the Playboy "Girls of the Big 12" spread. She has been told to return her Delta Delta Delta pin, but she's appealed to the ACLU for assistance in fighting the demand. She claims, "The funny thing is that they're pointing a moral finger at me, and every­body knows what goes on at sorority and fraternity functions." Actually, the fuf!ny thing is, continuing a recent trend at Notre Dame, she has been asked to come to the Washington game pep rally. 

. Attention Gamblers ... err ... Investors 
Investors at the Bank of Boulder recently got the opportunity to engage in a little gambling, when the bank issued a certifi­cate ofdeposit with an interest rate based on the outcome of the recent Colorado-Michi­gan game. The base rate was six percent,but investors could earn additional interest by predicting the number ofpoints, the number of Colorado touchdowns, rushing and pass­ing yardage and other stats. They wouid earn an extra quarter point if CU won the game, and the base rate would jump to eight percent ifthe game was won on another last­minute tipped Hail Mary. The Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has come up with a similar deal. Investors must guess total at­tendance, total intoxicated attendance, and attendance of elderly men in plaid pants. 
. Where Have /Heard That Before? 
The student body at the University of Virginia recently scored a victory against its 
administration. Students, who were not al­. lowed to carry bookbags into the bookstore, argued that this policy was inconsistent with the University's 154-year-old Honor Code. Over 3,000 signatures were presented on a · petition to the administration claiming that the policy indicated a "lack of trust" in the students by the administration. Hmm, I won­der what that's like, going to a school where the administration doesn't trust the students ... 
. Pig Roast? Who Needs a Pig? 
The people at College Park think they can party, but compared to students at the Uni­versities ofAkron and Wisconsin-Madison, they're small time. Last spring a couple of parties at these schools escalated into near­riots when couches were torched and police attempted to break them up. At Akron, the police had to tear gas the entire street in order to disperse stubborn students who refused to leave late at night. A couple of Wisconsin students were stabbed during a similar block party, and eight people were arrested, including a man.who set fire to a nearby kiosk. Here in South Bend, two Campus View residents were recently ar­rested for drinking on their porch. 
Alone. 





Respect Life Week October 6 -October 13 
~ 0 
1()-i... . \,,"-~
1JTTO 

10/6 Respect Life Sunday All Day Respect Life Masses Basilica and Hall Masses 
2:15 pm Life Chain Meet at Library Circle 
10/7 Feast of Our Lady 6:45 pm Pro-Life Rosary Grotto of the Rosary 
10/8 7:00 pm · "Living Out the Gospel of Walsh Hall Chapel Life: A Prayer for the Condemned" -Joe Ross, C.S.C. and Voices of Faith 
10/9 7 :00 pm Litany for Life Fieldhouse Mall Led by Fr. Mike Baxter, C.S.C. 
10/10 7:00 pm "Living Out the Gospel of Walsh Hall Chapel 
Life: A Prayer for the Dying" -Dr. David Young, ND '77 and Notre Dame Folk Choir 
10/13 7:00 pm "Living Out the Gospel of Walsh Hall Chapel Life: A Prayer for the Unborn" -Liz Cenedella ND '97 and Coro Primavera 
The. Go_s_pel oflife is at the heart. of Jesus' message. Everyohe' has an ()bligation to serve' life. . . 
-·· PopelohnPaul/1 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
29 


lllftlllilliil 


\/t B&&iJ REAl­V DV21tl6 € 
tA.'1 PAST LI\/ 
I 'ti\ Tl~ BECAUSE I t=EEL A COSt-\lC.. COtJlllEcrlol'J ,0 "TBE CoNCE PT OF 1:NteoP~. 

!'M-rlREo 8tCAVS'E: 
OF M~ fl6HT AGAl.i~ T~R.~tJW~ Af\JD 1,JJuSTlCc AtR0S'S 
-n-lE LArvO. 
I'M Tl~ 8EC~OSE, 
otJ A VEEPL'.1 Pfl?S'ONAL. 
(eve L, :c CAiJ RELA"TE TO 11-!E tMPfrJOhl(:, I-IEAT DtA~ OF Tt{E VtJIVf'2S'E, 
TlREo .Bt:c R~'j1\4£:W0R .ow<; ON 

SOMETHING 
Like What 
TO FIT ANY You're 
SIZE Reading? APPETITE 

Visit 

Scholastic's 
Website 
http:/ /w~w.nd.edur--,scholast/ 
... AND BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Lane 277-7744 52577 US Route 31 277-1024 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 3, 1996 
31 
•l~iiiiiKiii•ii 

A Thorough Inspection 

LOOKING UP TO THE IRISH GUARD. An alumni guardsman assists in the inspection of the Irish Guard before the Ohio State game on Saturday. 
Photo by Stan Evans 
-~---~-~-------------------------------------­
Fall Programming Schedule 
Monday Tuesday Wde nesday Thursdav Fn"d av Saturday Sunday
7:00 
Frances Nahas  Holly Masterson  The Miguel Show...  
Ben Voight  and  Jeremy Welsh  and  with Jed  
Jocelyn  Patrick Jehle  
Szczeoaniak-Gillece  
THE 80s SHOW  Superjock's Rude  Erica Haavig  MUSICAEN  Paul Herbert  
Giao Duong  Awakening  and  TU IDIOMA  
Mark Rosenberg  Maka Pilcher  Rich Pimentel  
John Tejada  Tim Donahue  just for life...  Steve Sabo  Schoen Smith  
and  Jason Dorwart  and Robert Calleros 
Eric Robben  Dallas Howard  
Lisa Schweizer ·  Steve Barr  and  Kellie Flanagan  Dusty DeGrande  
and  and  Jennifer Gurley  and Rita Flynn  and Jack Rusina 
Jenna Trippel  Steve Marr  John Huston  
Missy Hyman  Waterfalls with  Boo Gallagher  Sandra Nashif  BRIT POP  
and  Ron Garcia  and  Jodie Kranz and Elizabeth Guidi  
Dan Wolters  le petit croup Colleen Carev  Claire Kittle  Patrick Barry  
Where Eagles Dare!  Grassroots Groove  Nottafingah  Tasty Radio  Megas,  
Chris Owen  with  in the Hoosegow!  Katie Alexander  Milos,  
and  Pat Coolican  with  and  &  
Andy Yang  Matt Scherer  Mac and Shep  Megan DeNiro  Mikros  
Off the Top Ropes  Wendy Klare  Bedtime for Anarchists  Teenage Dance  
Katie Gillard  and  Kate Dougherty  Session  Erin McMurrough  
and  Marcy Dinius  and  with  
Colleen Kenny  Rachel Caidor  Doug McEachern  

10:00 
Roger Leech  
COUNTRY Kai Chu  
BEATLES BEAT Regina Rathnau Mark Higgins  
RAP Dennis Joyce Rob Stanton  
THE PARTY with the Nasty Man  
SKA Jim Boyle Chris Kramer  
REGGAE Isaac Duncan  
Industrial Glen Pietrzyk  

10:00 
10:00 
12:00 

12:00 
2:00
12:00 
2:00 

1:30 
4:00 
2:00 
4:00 

4:30 
3:30 
5:00 
6:00

5:00 
6:00 
6:30 
8:00 

7:00 
8:00 
8:00 
10:00 

9:30 
11:00 
12:00 

11 :00 
2:00

2:00 
2:00 
Eclectica Dave Condon  
Dan &Ant's lndiegestion  
Matt Hynes  
the PRESIDENTS Seth and Megan  
CLASS CHAT  
CAMPUS ISSUES  
SPORTS TALK  
OVERTIME Tom & Jake  
Red and the Marlboro Man  
The Jess & Jen Show with Ann  
No Parole from Rock 'n' Roll Chad & Brent  

wvfi am 640 
has r10 substar1ce. . . r\O plot .. . r\O depth . .. 
Studer1t Ur1ior1 Board Rr\OWS better. 
o&10:30 pm@ Cusl1i11g, $2.00 admissio11 




