lElilUAin n. 19G4

5
%
s
3
& &
>
8
$
1

PATRIOT
OF THE YEAR:
JOHN GLENN
Ad *
^5
----A-
4
A

T




#5$

& <


Presenlinv . .
Attention Here’s a portunity
university
men!
very golden opto save one-
fourth on the finest apparel from which you’ve ever been asked to select. Choose from many popular styles, patterns and colors, and save one-fourth. Do it soon!
Your
Campus
Shop
QUALITY
of SUITS
TOPCOATS
and
SPORTCOATS
at SAVINGS of
^GILBERT'S





r..
JULY
•
3
JUNE
NO CARRYING CHARGE
PAY ONE-THIRD . . . ONE-THIRD . . . ONE-THIRD
IN
IN IN
AUGUSTA
JUNE JULY AUGUST
. . . this is the Campus Shop Way to Buy! We’ve created it especially for university men; it’s our plan designed to let you dress well during the school year and charge it the Campus Shop Way. Stop in NOW and select your apparel from our fine selection of university-styled clothing . . . wear it NOW thanks to our exclusive Campus Shop Way to charge. (Never a service or carrying charge for this convenience.)
$

ONE
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERTS
3
OnCampus WShulwi
{Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" and “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”.)
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Founded 1867
Vol. 105 February 14, 1964 No. 13
ECONOMICS CAN BE CHUCKLES
Many of yon have been avoiding economics because it is so widely known as '‘the dismal science.” Oh, good friends, stop cheating yourselves of many a laugh and cheer, because economics is a positive riot! True, it is called the dismal science, but that is only because it was invented in 16S1 by Walter C. Dismal.
It is easy to understand why Air. Dismal’s discovery of economics is today almost forgotten, for the fact is that he himself only stayed with the subject for two or three days. After that he took up embonpoint, which means fatness. It is said that at his apogee, Mr. Dismal reached 1200 pounds. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.
It was not until 1776 when Adam Smith published his Wealth of Nations (or Ozy-mandias, as it is usually known as) that the world came to realize what a rosy, twinkly, fun subject economics is. As Mr. Smith showed in his jocular little treatise, there is nothing complicated about economics.
When there is a great demand for a product, a great
supply is placed on the market. When there is a small demand, there is a small supply. Take, for example, castanets. You walk into any average American town today and I’ll wager you won’t see more than eighty or ninety castanet shops. That is because the demand is small.
For Marlboro Cigarettes, on the other hand, the demand is great. Thus, you will find Marlboros—with all their yummy rich tobacco flavor and pure white Selectrate filter and pliable soft pack and un-pliable Flip-Top box—at any counter where cigarettes are sold in every one of our fifty great States and Duluth.
To Adam Smith, I say, belongs the distinction of popularizing economics. Air. Smith was followed by David Ricardo. In fact, everywhere he went he was followed by David Ricardo. Air. Smith
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, are tobacconists, not economists. But this much we know about supply and demand: you demand full flavor in a filter cigarette; we supply it—Marlboro!
finally got so annoyed that he summoned a bobby, as British policemen are called, and had Air. Ricardo arrested. This later became known as the Louisiana Purchase.
Upon his release from gaol, as a British jail is called, Air. Ricardo reported to his parole officer, Thomas Robert Alalthus. The}7 soon became fast friends, and one night over a game of whist they invented the stock exchange, or chutney, as it is called in England.
Well sir, with the British haring, you might say, a corner on economics, the French decided that they wanted some economics too. Being, however, a proud nation, they refused simply to borrow British economics, but insisted on inventing their own. At first they tried using the truffle hound as a medium of ex
change. When this proved less than satisfactory, they switched to pomade. Discouraged by this second disappointment, they finally shrugged and said, “Oh, who cares about economics anyhow?” and returned to the guillotine and Alaurice Chevalier.
America, I am pleased to report, had much better success with economics. Our early merchants quickly broke down economics into its two major categories— coins and folding money—and today, as a result of their wisdom, we can all enjoy the automatic toll station.
Well sir, I could go on and on about this fascinating subject, but I know you’re all in a fearing hurry to rush out and sign up for Econ I. So I will leave you now with two kindly words of farewell: Gresham’s Law. ®19G4 Shulman
Tom Hoobler . . . editor-in-chief
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor
Brian Barnes
. . . business manager
Mel Noel . . . news editor
James Morgan Callero . . . feattires editor
Terry Wolkerstorfer . . . sports editor
Larry Sicking . . . layout and art editor
Jack Pope, Joe Wilson . . . copy
Pat Ford . . . photography
E. Brian Graham . . . circulation
John Souza . . . advertising
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
David Barrett,
Jim Clare, Al Dudash,
Brian Jorgensen, Jeremy Lane, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, John Twohey, Alike Walusis
. . . contributors
Al Basso, Pat Bauer, Tom Bettag. Jim Billiter, Jeff Blackwell, Jim Boland, Brian Cass, Lee Cass, Bill Cragg, Larry Dietz, Bob Edler, Gear; Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, Joh’. Gorman, Dave Grophear, Alike Hoyt Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Cari Magel, Bill O’Grady, John Phillip". Jack Rowe, Gary Sabatte, Pet. Siegwald, Frank Smith, Rick Weirici. John Whelan
. . . sta"
4
The Scholasi
The Lonely Candidate
Policemen’s
Bawl
We had the opportunity to witness the raid on the Patio last Saturday night by the combined forces of the Alcoholic Beverage Control, Indiana State Police, and the South Bend Police. In all instances, as far as we were able to see, there was no commotion and no resistance.
The contrast between student behavior and that of the police was quite noticeable. Both the ABC men and the state police are to be commended for handling a touchy situation very well. They were quite polite and efficient; the South Bend force, however, could not measure up to the quality of their allies. It is little wonder that the police in town complain about “smart-mouthed students” and accuse them of being “uncooperative and disrespectful.” Their own behavior is as much responsible for this as any other single factor. It is easy to see that there is bound to be some resistance when the police are using strong-arm methods such as those employed by members of the force last Saturday night. The students were quiet, orderly, and apparently respectful until they were manhandled by South Bend’s “finest.”
As the students came from the door of the building to the wagon parked in front, they were jerked by the arm, pushed around, and shoved into the rear of the vehicle. There is no reason why any orderly and responsible citizen should be subjected to this sort of treatment. If these policemen demand respect, they should abandon these bullying tactics. And if they do not wish to deal with arrogance, they should control themselves. The uncomfortable situation that developed would have been less painful had the city police participated in the quiet and efficient manner of the state authorities or in the orderly conduct of the students. The verbal and physical bullying that seems to be their common attitude will evoke neither cooperation nor respect. It can only result in tension and, ultimately, in further lack of respect for civil authority and the law.
The upcoming student body president election will presumably require no difficult decision for the voting students. At the present time there is but one nominee, with no other candidate in sight. The lamentable aspects of the situation are only partly alleviated by the fact that the single candidate, John Gearen, himself recognizes the drawbacks of an rm-contested race, and plans to campaign vigorously even in the absence of another candidate.
The situation has arisen, we feel, partly because of a change in the voting regulations. That all four “cabinet” positions are now electoral (instead of the vice-president, secretary, and treasurer to be appointed as in the past) tends to discourage a candidate from gambling on the first position when he can more safely settle for second. In the past, of course, a presidential candidate would still have had the prospect of taking a lesser office if he were to run for president and lose. Now, he is politically dead.
The fact that the elections are being held considerably earlier than in previous years may also have had an effect in keeping candidates from running, and furthermore raises another serious problem: will not the incumbent president become a “lame duck” for his three remaining months in the office, in the shadow of the newly elected president eagerly awaiting his chance at the job?
Quite apart from the personalities of the current president and his prospective successor, the new voting rules have inherent defects for future elections, although, as Candidate Gearen points out, the lesser cabinet offices may be filled by sophomores and juniors who will be able to run for president from these positions in future years, thus producing additional likely candidates on the political scene. However, this situation is possible even with the present situation, and no candidates have appeared from the ranks of the Ellis cabinet.
We fear the uncontested election will result in the same kind of student lethargy and cynicism that was characteristic of the Hart era of two years ago, which also followed an uncontested election. An eligible student would be doing a real service to the student body and to student government if he were to make even a nominal race for the election. In view of the new election rules and the present Notre Dame political situation, however, we can only conclude that the possibility of such a heroic candidate appearing is remote.
February 14, 1964
5
to to to to
m to to to to to to to to ft to
holds that tiger
p to

Q)
& to to to to to
ft
at only $5.00
^GILBERTS
mihimhi
ARROW tamed the collar and let the stripes run wild in this handsome Gordon Dover Club buttondown. The buttons are whipped precisely into place to make the collar roll over gently without looking flat and playing dead. The styling is ivy. clean, lean, fully tapered body with back pleat, button and hang loop.
Stripes and stripes, to choose from and solids, too.
HHHUhn

See our complete collection of the ARROW Gordon Doverdub in the new bold stripes that are setting the fashion pace on every campu*s.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 18 East 50th Street. New York 22, N.Y. It receives its covers including the four-color back-page advertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New York City. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). The special subscription rate for St. Mary's students and faculty is S3.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. AU unsolicited material becomes the propertv of the SCHOLASTIC.
CONTENTS
Editorial ................... 5
Campus at a Glance........... 11
On Other Campuses............ 14
Patriot of the Year.......... 15
Platform Polemics........... 16
Tartuffe ................... 17
Conjugal Love Revisited .... 18
John Cabot Lodge ........... 20
George Romney .............. 21
La Dolce Vita .............. 22
Caberfae ................... 23
Crisis in Panama ........... 24
Sports ..................... 27
Sports ..................... 28
Voice in the Crowd........... 29
The Last Word............... 38
TAe Scholastic

Letters • • •
Editor:
It was with a great deal of disappointment that I read your report of the speech given by Dr. D’Antonio on the now very topical subject of birth control. I was sorry not only that the Scholastic saw fit to print such a report, without the much-needed criticism which such a talk warranted, but especially with the talk itself. It seems almost incredible that such a position could be taken by a Catholic layman, supposedly an “informed” professor, on a subject that is so clearly defined by the Catholic Church. One of the marks of the Church, as explicitly stated in every catechism, is unity, and this mark extends not only to the unity of doctrine possessed by the Church, but it also relates to the fact that “all its members, according to the will of Christ, . . . are united under one and the same visible head, the Pope” (page 8, The New Baltimore Catechism). I quote this not to inform you since this piece of information is supposedly known by every knowledgeable Catholic, but simply to clarify the issue. Pope Pius XI, in his encyclical Casti Connubi, seemed to have such positions as Dr. D'Antonio’s very much in mind when he said that “(the) sacredness of marriage which is intimately connected with religion and all that is holy, arises from the Divine origin . . . from its purpose which is the begetting and educating of children for God and the binding of man and wife to God through Christian love and mutual support. . . . There are also secondary ends, such as mutual aid, the cultivating of mutual love. . . . Thus among the blessings of marriage, the child holds the first place, and indeed the Creator of the human race Himself . .. taught this when, instituting marriage in Paradise, He said to our first parents, and through them to all future spouses, ‘Increase and multiply, and fill the earth.’ ” This is clearly not in accord with the statement in the Scholastic that “The primary function of marriage is not procreation but a love between two people which seeks to achieve the optimal development in each person.” Nor, I’m quite sure, would the Pope go along with the statement that “we must remember that we are rational creatures and do not have to be subject to the laws of nature.” Even apart from this nonsensical statement, anyone who wants to call himself a Catholic is subject to the teaching authority of the Church. As such, particularly if he is a Catholic educator, he has a
grave obligation to inform himself on the teachings of the Church and especially on those issues which are most susceptible to misunderstanding. It is also his duty, as a member of the Church, to defend the Truth, and not to subject it to personal interpretation.
But perhaps the thing most frustrating and most disturbing about this talk to a “near-capacity audience” is the fact that, at Our Lady’s University, it could have taken place at all. Surely the responsibility of the University is just as great, if not greater, than that of the individual when it comes to such an important issue as that of birth control. Surely the administration intends to control and direct the activities, meetings, publications, etc., which appear under the name of Notre Dame. As a Catholic university it would seem only proper that this is so. Unfortunately, instead of taking the initiative which they are entitled to as possessors of the truth, they seem to be more inclined to follow the lead of non-Cath-olics and secular institutions in the administration of their school. Surely this is to be commended, on the natural level, since it involves the improvement of the facilities as well as the curriculum in the attempt to develop a first-class university. But all the class in the world is not going to help a Catholic school which fails to recognize and firmly come to grips with its all-important role of educating Christian men, on the supernatural as well as the natural level. A failure to maintain careful watch over the hierarchy of values entrusted to it is a serious one and cannot be treated lightly, regardless of the intellectual justifications that may be broached in defense.
The Student Body as well as the Administration at Notre Dame seems to be in the process of “discovering their identity,” so to speak, with the “dialogue” and the “soul-searching” in evidence everywhere. Maybe it would be easier to find this identity, and the true Notre Dame spirit as well, by beginning to act, think, feel and talk like a true CATHOLIC university.
Thomas Mammoser, '60
BIC is the world’s finest writing instrument—writes on and on—yet it costs only 19$. Only BIC is guaranteed* to write first time everytime. BIC’s "Dyamite” Ball Point is the hardest
metal made by man. Get a BIC, now at your campus store. BIC "Crystal” 19$. BIC pens available with blue, red, green, and black ink. Made in U.SA. *For replacement send pen to:
WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP., MILFORD, CONN.


MIXED EFFORT Editor:
In regard to the article on tutoring which appeared in the January 17 issue of the Scholastic, it should be pointed out that the tutoring is taking place not only at the St. Peter Claver House and St. Augustine’s Catholic Church, but also at St. Paul’s (Continued on page 9)
NOT - Going Out of Business Sole Now Going On
Reco Sporting Goods 113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
February 14, 1964
7
Tom Huck sought scientific excitement
He’s finding it at Western Electric
Ohio University conferred a B.S.E.E. degree on C. T. Huck in 1956. Tom knew of Western Electric’s history of manufacturing development. He realized, too, that our personnel development program was expanding to meet tomorrow's demands.
• After graduation, Tom immediately began to ’’ •work on the development of electronic switching systems. Then, in 1958, Tom went to the Bell Telephone Laboratories on a temporary assignment to help in the advancement of our national military capabilities. At their Whippany, New Jersey, labs, Tom worked with the Western Electric development team on computer circuitry for the Nike Zeus guidance system. Tom then moved on to a new assignment at WE’s Columbus, Ohio, Works. There, Tom is working on the development of testing circuitry for the memory phase of electronic switching systems.
This constant challenge of the totally new, combined with advanced training and education opportunities, make a Western Electric career enjoyable, stimulating and fruitful. Thousands of young men will realize this in the next few years. How about you?
If responsibility and the challenge of the future appeal to you, and you have the qualifications we seek, talk with us. Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now for electrical, mechanical and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
Western ElectricMANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities • Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S.
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J. - Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. • Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New You
8
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from page 1) Methodist Church and St. John (Baptist) Educational Bldg. This foursome constitutes the Neighborhood Study Help Group and has been in operation since January 8. The pioneer group began a few miles away at the First A.M.E. Zion Church November 7. These two groups were originally independent of each other, Larry Milligan and Diane Smith being in charge of procuring tutors for the Neighborhood Study Help Group, while Bill O’Brien and Marlie Brookman handled the pioneer group. On January 12 the two groups were united, and further tutoring activities will be directed by Bill O’Brien and Anne Liess. In no way was the program a strictly Catholic activity. From the beginning it has been an excellent example of interdenominational cooperation. It was also intimated in the article that high-school students were tutored. While there are a few freshmen and sophomores being tutored, the overwhelming majority are junior-high students.
Bill O’Brien 441 Lyons
PLEA: ND FOR STUDENTS
Editor:
After spending the entire weekend of January 18-20 in the library studying, I have decided to drop you a line in hopes that it may be printed and,
assuming that others feel as I perhaps some united action can taken.
First, last night approximately
do, be
15
hours before I was due to take a final which had been moved, with permission, to Tuesday morning, that the office of Academic Affairs had issued a directive to halt the exam and give it at a later date. After three years at the University, I expect such folly, but I just wonder what a student is supposed to do about airline reservations which must be cancelled, and about getting new reservations when all flights are now filled. I wonder if, at future dates, the students could be taken into consideration when decisions such as this are made.
Second, and perhaps more bothersome, is the event which happened in the library on Sunday. The University has spent a fortune building this tremendous edifice to serve as the heart of this University. It is to be for the student, to study and do research. On Sunday, the library was so full of people that it became very difficult to find a seat. The irksome part of this was the fact that the seats were not taken by N.D. students studying for finals, but rather by
February 14, 1964
local high-school girls interested not especially in study, but rather in disrupting those who were at the library to study. The only apt way to describe the whole scene would be to compare it to Grand Central station.
Can this a dents, longer study,
we not do something to make
place The hide so I
of study for N.D. stu-undergraduates can no away in the tower to think it is time to do
something so that the first two floors
may become University.
a suitable heart of the
A distraught student
EMPHASIS QUALIFIED
Editor:
In his praiseworthy effort to make clear the uniqueness and dignity of the People of God, the preacher at the High Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Jan. 19 fell into an unfortunate
factual error, the consequences which, for an understanding of true place of Christian faith in world, are rather serious. He
of the the as-
serted that we do not, in the Mass, pray for anyone but ourselves, and was therefore much concerned to vindicate our attitude from the charge of arrogance. It is true that in the Canon, the strictly sacrificial part of Mass which is the proper act of the Church as such, we pray only for Christian believers, i.e., for those directly implicated in the sacrifice (though even here, nothing prevents the inclusion of others in the parenthetical mementoes of the living and dead; and the conclusion of the Canon refers, in the words “haec omnia,” not just to Christian tasks but to all the earth’s fruits and to all man’s handiwork and achievement). But in the early part of the Mass it
Even if you are a beginner... You’ll Dance after 3 hours
at the
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO
You can go dancing after only three hours when you put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray teacher.
At our gay studio parties, free to all students, you will thrill to the wonderful adventure of dancing the new steps in the Fox Trot, Cha-Cha, Twist, etc. You'll gain poise, develop your personality as you make new friends.
Join the fun; accept a half-hour h'H h'h' Trial Lesson............ x -■’■J-'-1-'
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 120 East Wayne Street CE 2-3339
is simply not true that our prayers are exclusively for ourselves. The second prayer at the offertory speaks of “the human substance” which God has wonderfully created and more wonderfully restored, and prays that
He will unite “us,
i.e., the human
family, in a divine life. The third prayer immediately takes up this thought, asking that our offering may be acceptable “for our salvation and the whole world’s.” The clear lesson of these prayers is that all men depend for their salvation on Christ, their Savior, and indeed on the whole Christ, Head and members. This is the ordinary doctrine, and there is surely nothing strange that it finds expression in the Mass at this point. It follows, after all, immediately after the People of God had been singing the Creed, proclaiming its belief in Christ, “who for us men (propter nos homines, not propter nos Christianos) and for our salvation came down from heaven.”
Phil O’Mara

&
fl


4
TORTURE?

Editor:
All semester long I have searched for girls on this campus with no results. On weekends when I had nothing to do, I could walk for an hour without seeing a girl.
Why, then, do females en masse have to converge on Notre Dame the weekend before finals. Sunday afternoon the library looked like a Junior Prom and one of the best mixers of the year was going on by the basement vending machines.
Is this some form of Chinese torture for aspiring undergraduates cramming for finals?
Michael Hoyt 351 Sorin








9
DEVELOPMENT OF
At the 1963 stockholders’ meeting, Arjay R. Miller, President of Ford Motor Company, emphasized the Company’s far-sighted recruitment program and its accent on developing management talent:
“Obviously, our long-run future will be determined by the development of our management. Here, every one of us—at all levels of
MANAGEMENT
IS OUR MOST
supervision—recognizes this as his most important function. Since 1946, the Company has recruited widely varied talent—talent that can be blended to give us the required combination of tight administration and
IMPORTANT FUNCTION
creative scope.
"Under a carefully conceived management development program, we try to recruit the best personnel available, both in training and experience. Once we get them, we have a program for giving them varied opportunities and increasing responsibility. This program is in force in all parts of the Company—in manufacturing, finance, styling, engineering and marketing.
“The program is paying off. We have developed a real depth of management talent in the Company, and we are dedicated to seeing it continued and reinforced. Because of this, I feel not only very fortunate in being associated with this management group, but also very confident of its long-run success. We know our goals and how to achieve them.”
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn. Michigan
Those interested in a career with a future are invited to register at the Placement Office for an interview with Ford Motor Company representatives, who will be on campus soon.
10
The Scholastic
ANTIOLIGARCHY
Nominations are now being accepted for the offices of Student Body President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer. The nomination period began on February 13 and will continue to February 23. Elections will take place on February 27.
For the first time, the offices of Student Body Vice-President, Treasurer and Secretary will be filled by men elected in a campus-wide election. In the past the winners of these offices have been selected by the Senate. As of this writing, only one man has declared himself for the position of Student Body President: John Gearen, the present senator of the Arts and Letters College.
THEORY OF THEO THROES
The delay and confusion attending registration for classes in the Theology Department two weeks ago were attributed by Fr. Leon Mertensotto, in charge of registration for the department, to a combination of factors largely beyond the control of the department. Fr. Mertensotto said a suddenly occurring shortage of teachers was the basis of the problem; two faculty members moved higher in the administration and the “cancellation” of two others, all since January 1, necessitated the cancellation of seven sections of Theology at final registration.
Other factors compounded the consequent confusion and further induced chaos. For example, tallies from preregistration were inaccurate: one college omitted to submit its tally, another college submitted only a rough estimate, and some students preregistered incompletely, failing to indicate section numbers. Then, there was student confusion over eligibility for, and exemption from, certain courses, as some juniors, contrary to Theology department instructions to deans and student advisors, preregistered for courses restricted to seniors, and some students sought to make illegal substitutions. Also, the names
of teachers were listed for the first time and some were in greater demand than others. Student “dishonesty,” taking the form of students’ pulling class cards for friends or intentionally scheduling conflicts in order to finagle preferred teachers, contributed to the woes.
WSND ADDS DUAL SERVICE
Notre Dame’s student radio station has recently integrated two network services into its programming. The group W Westinghouse News Service was inaugurated on February 4, and is being used on all longer news casts. This service draws on the resources of Westinghouse stations in eight cities around the country. Among others in the Group are WBZ in Boston, WINS in New York, KYW in Cleveland, and Chicago’s WIND. Group W maintains a news bureau in Washington, D.C., and covers international happenings from offices in London, Paris, and Berlin. Reports from these vantage points are fed twice daily to member stations for use on newscasts.
Last Saturday afternoon, WSND-FM presented the first of a series of live operas carried on the Texaco Metropolitan Opera Network. Milton Cross provides commentary for the programs, as he has done for thirty-two years. The first live opera broadcast on WSND-FM was Gian-Carlo Me-notti’s The Last Savage. The work was a broadcast premiere, and was staged by the composer himself. On future Saturdays, WSND-FM and the Metropolitan Opera network will be presenting Verdi’s Othello and Rigolet-to, Puccini’s La Boheme, and many others.
FINANCE SEXENNIAL
February 25-27 are the dates for the sixth annual Finance Forum sponsored by the Finance Club of Notre Dame. A banquet Tuesday evening at the Morris Inn will start the series of talks, which take place on Wednesday and Thursday.
Robert C. Liebenow, president of the Chicago Board of Trade, Erwin H. Graham, comptroller of Chrysler Corporation, and Donald H. McGan-non, president of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company are just a few of the speakers attending.
Sessions will be held in the amphitheater of the Student Center and all students are invited. Cancelled cuts will be given to all students who attend the talks.
STUDY LAY ROLE
The course, “The Role of the Christian in the Church” will attempt to fulfill the need for a genuine intellectual awareness among Christians, particularly at a Christian university, of their role within the Church. Conducted by six graduate students, the course begins Monday, February 17, and will be given every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for the entire semester.
The course is based on the assumption that there is a need for the layman to contemplate his role, and that not until he does this with other Christians, does the meaningful impact of his responsibilities within Christ’s Church become apparent. The Christian layman lives in this world of expanding technology, social and political revolution, and change within the Church. He joins the world to the Church, and the Church to the world. He is, as a member of the Church, Christ incarnate in the world.
The course arose from the belief that Christian laymen, and more particularly Christian students who will be the future leaders of the Church in the temporal society, will not arrive haphazardly at a Christian awareness of their apostolate in the complex social order. They must conscientiously and seriously determine this at a scholarly level. The course is divided into three areas, each area to be presented by two of the six graduate student instructors. Bert Ghezzi, a graduate student in history, and Steve Clark, in philosophy, will deal with the Christianization of the world, and the theology of Christian action. Jack Malinowski, a graduate student in theology and Philip O’Mara, in English, will deal with the concept of Christian community, evangelization, the parish, the liturgical renewal, the ecumenical movement and related topics. George Martin, in philosophy, and Richard Giloth in political science and in the Master of Arts in Teaching Program, will be concerned with the call of the Pope for Christian action in the world, and with the nature of practical social
February 14, 1964
11
Ft. Patrick Sullivan, S.J.	Trio in Trouble
action in economics, politics, social problem areas, education, international relations, eta
Though no credit is given, the course will be conducted in a formal manner with the presentation of subject matter by the instructors. The class will be held in Room 114 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 4:00-5:00 in the afternoon, and 7:00-8:00 in the evening. Those who have not already registered should come to the first class.
THE LEGION LOOSENED
On Monday, February 7, Father Patrick Sullivan, S.J., assistant director of the Legion of Decency in the United States, spoke on mass communication in our society.
In communication, Father Sullivan said, we deal with an image of man that is to be reflected to his fellow man. Because of this the Church has passed a decree on mass communication at the Vatican Council. Few have heard of this decree, and with good reason; a “conspiracy of silence” has been agreed upon by many prominent voices in the Church, clerical and lay. They feel the decree to be “defensive and negative,” serving only to restrict freedom of communication.
Father Sullivan disagreed strongly. Perhaps it is not all that was hoped for, he stated, but the decree must be interpreted in the spirit of the Council The optimism of the Council is clearly stated in the first passages of the decree, recognizing mass media as truly good in themselves. Yet a certain harm can be effected if the methods of mass media are misused; the pornography of sex and violence that has invaded the newsstand is finding its way into more “accepted” means of communication.
Does this mean that moral evils may no longer be portrayed in our movies, books, and plays? Not necessarily; when handled in the proper
way, moral evil may emphasize and glorify truth and goodness. Art must depict evil- so that man may know better how to serve himself, his neighbor, and ultimately his God.
The Church recognizes the right of man to information. That this right is seen by some to be checked by the Vatican decree arises from a misunderstanding of vocabulary. The Church requires that the information be true, complete, and presented in a morally acceptable way. No “fencing in” process seems intended by the Council.
The duty of protection against the misuse of mass communication is divided three ways. The state must play a definite role in safeguarding the truth and justice of information that is passed to the people. Censorship to any vast extent is not desirable, however, for this will certainly limit the freedoms of speech and press.
The Church offers protection through the guidance of such organizations as the Legion of Decency. Realizing that not all artists are artists, and that some who claim to be artists merely exploit the “youth” of all ages, the Church offers its ideas on morality in entertainment. This advice, however, is intended only as guidance.
The principal responsibility rests with the individual. If a cleanup is necessary, the individual must make his influence felt. The Church realizes that man is entering a new era of freedom, Father Sullivan concluded, and she welcomes it. The individual has the responsibility now, and in him the Church places its trust.
COUP DE MARDI GRAS
It was a Notre Dame concert; no one expected it to start on time. But, as the wait stretched 15 minutes to 2:15, the audience began to get impatient. A momentary delay was what had been announced, and it was now
a delay of 30 minutes.
A volunteer performer from the audience, Cedric Smith, offered to fill in until the scheduled act arrived. Mr. Smith, a member of the Shakespearean company from Stratford, Ontario, sang two songs and did a monologue on World War II which included interviews and song excerpts. Following Mr. Smith, the Eastgate Singers from the Salty Dog sang three songs.
Finally, after iy2 hours, the Chad Mitchell Trio made its appearance. The singers apologized briefly for the delay, and began their first number, which set the previously quiet audio system crackling and fading in and out. The performance lasted an hour and 15 minutes, less time than the wait for the concert to begin. This, unfortunately, was the 1964 Mardi Gras Concert.
The consensus seems to be that the best part of the show was Cedric Smith. If he had been a scheduled performer, his act would have been good, but considering that it was impromptu, his performance was excellent. The Eastgate Singers left something to be desired, but were satisfactory as fill-in performers. Actually, any response to them should be of gratitude rather than criticism.
Even dyed-in-the-wool fans of the Chad Mitchell Trio left the concert disappointed. Granted that the performers were at a disadvantage with poor microphones and an audience tired of waiting, one can still see they lacked something. Perhaps the best word for the lack is showmanship. They had little between-song dialogue, and what they did have was not effective. Their satirical songs were good, especially “The Twelve Days of Christmas” and “I’m Going to Miss Old Miss.” In this field they are standouts. They sing well, too, but they are not polished enough in person. The afternoon could have been spent as profitably and more cheaply in listening to one of their albums.
12
The Scholastic
Gamblers Flock to Carnival
Emilo Bellomini and new friend
ALWAYS GREENER
Mardi Gras 1964 is over, an apparent success. While final results are not yet available, early reports indicate that all phases of the long weekend have lived up to expectations.
The Mardi Gras Carnival, the longest of the weekend’s events, turned out very well. The extra day of operation provided additional income, and seemed to ease the crowding of the other nights. Everyone who came had ample opportunity to lose his money on a wide assortment of games, from white mouse races at the Aero booth and the New England Club’s “Fat City,” to the more conventional black jack and craps. This seems to have been the year of the bettor at the carnival, with more big winners than in the past. Those playing the first two nights had the advantage of odds which actually put the house at a disadvantage in certain games, but even those who came later and played under more realistic odds were able to win. The only place you were sure to lose your money was the Rugby Club’s pie throwing booth.
There were only 34 booths this year, fewer than in the past. The number was cut to allow larger and better booths. Winners of the awards for the best construction were the Texas Club, the Dixie Club, and the Wash.-Md.-Va. Club, in that order. (The other prizes at the carnival were those of the raffle.) The Cadillac was won by Mr. Kenneth Flanagan, of New Haven, Conn., and the Vette by Emilo Bellomini, 137 Fisher. The three stereo sets went to Charles Morrison, 224 Farley, Joe Ignelzi, 120 Morrissey, and Don Eversmann, 131 Keenan.
The other activities of the weekend went equally well. Si Zentner provided excellent music for the 680 couples attending the ball. The size of the ball was cut slightly from that of previous years, and the floor area enlarged, allowing the couples a bit
of breathing room. The only sour note came when Mr. Zentner berated the dancers for their lack of applause or any sign of appreciation for his group’s efforts.
The Communion Breakfast Sunday morning was probably the best to date. The food was good, the speeches brief (and Johnny Lattner used only two jokes), and the whole thing was over punctually at 11:00.
A NEW BRAND OF DIPLOMACY
“It ranks alongside the Civil Rights Bill as the major accomplishment of the tragedy-shortened Kennedy Administration.” “It” is the Peace Corps, born amid a storm of protest, labeled as a campaign gimmick, as mere extension of foreign aid, criticized by former President Eisenhower as simply a money-spender. The quote is Professor Walter Langford’s the first field director of Chile I, one of the first Peace Corps’ projects. The scene is 104 O’Shaughnessy on Tuesday night for Professor Langford’s lecture on “Peace Corps Diplomacy in Chile.”
The essence of Professor Langford’s talk was that Peace Corps diplomacy is not the same as this country’s other diplomatic ventures — in fact Peace Corps volunteers were instructed not to make use of our diplomatic staff unless it was absolutely necessary. True, this special brand of diplomacy is designed to improve the image of the U.S. abroad, but it’s aim is more the promotion of world peace and friendship through the Peace Corps’ three goals: the providing of trained manpower to supply the needs of underdeveloped nations, the promotion of understanding of the American people by the citizens of “host” countries, and promotion of understanding of these “host” citizens by our PCV’s, as the Peace Corps Volunteers are called.
Professor Langford then went on to develop this theme by describing some of the variety of projects carried on
by PCV’s in Chile — projects in nursing, soil management, home economics, dental hygiene, all forms of agriculture, and other fields too numerous to mention.
It was clear from this lecture that Professor Langford is sold on the Peace Corps as a boon both to the underdeveloped nations affected and to America herself.
COMPUTERS AND LAW BOOKS
“The Use of Electronic Data Retrieval in Legal Research” was Mr. David T. Link’s topic for his lecture last Friday in the Morris Inn’s Mahogany Room. It was one of the Computing Science Lecture Series and was sponsored by the Computing Center and Gray’s Inn, a Notre Dame Law School student organization.
Mr. Link, who encouraged informality during his talk, is an attorney in the office of the Chief Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service. He is a member of the Federal Bar Association’s Committee on Electronic Retrieval of Law and a 1961 graduate of Notre Dame Law School. He was recently a speaker, session leader, and panelist during a symposium on Legal Information Retrieval at the National Archives.
According to Mr. Link the main reasons for applying computers to law retrieval are to untangle complex legal problems, to maintain consistency of legal position, to gather and classify statistics, and to find precedent cases in the enormous volume of legal matter. At present only sorting and printing are done by computers on a card system. One of the law projects planned for the computers is the compiling of a “Uniterm dictionary” of legal concepts. Presently the computer information retrieval in the Internal Revenue Service is not open to the public, but will be opened with the exception of classified and personal documents.
February 14, 1964
13
on other eampuses
which of the gentlemen browsing about the Center are visitors and which are Pinkerton agents.
• Northwestern University’s infirmary, Searle Hall, has borne the bulk of student discontent in recent months. The Daily Northwestern, in an attempt to analyze this student hostility, surveyed the opinions of former infirmary patients. While complaints of wrong diagnoses and mistreatment by staff members were frequent, the most spectacular attack was a claim that three or four patients had suffered food poisoning while “recovering” at the infirmary. The Daily’s subsequent investigation, however, proved these aspersions on Searle Hall to be unfounded. The investigation also indicated a more likely cause of the persistent criticism. One graduate student saw the infirmary as a psychological substitute for students’ anti-administration feeling. A coed put it more simply: “The infirmary’s the thing to get this year.”
• One highlight of the National Interfraternity Council Convention in New York City was a charity event for the benefit of the American Cancer Society. At the First International Interfratemal Intercollegiate Rat Race (FUR2), 67 rats competed for the title of “Fastest Rat in the World.” Dashing down the ten-foot track in the superb time of 30.4 seconds, the Theta Chi Cannonball from the University of Delaware captured the crown. At the request of the New York SPCA, two armed guards were
feiffer
stationed at the track to cut down any spectator who attempted to molest any of the contestants.
• A request for change in men’s dress regulations for evening meals has been presented to the Men’s Hall Association at Michigan State University. Presently the men wear dress shirts and slacks to evening meals during the week, with a coat and tie added for Sunday. While Sunday dress would remain unchanged, the request would allow students to wear any sport shirt with a collar, and all clean trousers, excluding knickers, jeans, dungarees, and levis; dress Bermudas would be permitted.
The basic reason for the request is the students’ opinion that “clothes don’t make the man.” They feel that behavior is not influenced by attire. A supporting argument is the high cost of laundering white shirts.
• Students at Pittsburgh use a somewhat different approach to solve the problem of spiraling educational costs: pilfering merchandise from the University Book Center. John A. Ba-lagna, Jr., the Center’s general manager, disregards such conventional safeguards as alarms and turnstiles, but the large losses occurring during the confusion at the beginning of each term have necessitated the employment of extreme measures. The Pitt students will now have to decide
• The merits of membership in the National Student Association (NSA) has been questioned by the student bodies of various colleges. But at St. Ambrose College of Davenport, Iowa, action was instigated by the administration.
One of the Association’s less controversial activities for students is their book cooperative. This program, in effect at many schools, makes available to students any paperback or hardbound book at savings of 10 to 15 percent.
At St. Ambrose the NSA was preparing to establish the co-op when the administration stepped in. At a student council meeting, with a motion to adjourn already on the floor, the faculty advisor to the council rose to read a letter from the president. The letter stated that because of the Association’s basic [?] policies and activities, membership was no longer in the best interests of the college, and was to be immediately terminated.
• Reacting to complaints of the atrocity of dining hall food, members of the home economics class in quantity cooking (sic) at Virginia Tech have established their own cafeteria. Lunch is served five days a week for about fifty students and faculty members. This number, however, reflects supply rather than demand as patrons are required to make advance reservations.
GO HOU SEE, DEAR
PE^pARP, WHILE-1
/ think hour?
sweet ano
KIUP AMP 6000-!
CM NEVES?
LOVSLVU.
ILL Tat HOU IMATG WRONO-IM m WALLOWED ALIVE' IH THE SLAVE OF MH GWGET^MH KINPNE5S AMP MH GO0ptiE5S!8OH, DO I FEEL LIKE 5MA0K/M6 HOU!
^7
, BOT / WHAT 4 oo& solve?
Ef&MRD, HOU HIT ME.
HcS I PIP.'	vut 8E^H
WMTTOGEE	THAT 60
NO, IP MW VIOLENT AMP WHERE HA5 it Gotten me? its eorren me to so meet kiho amp _ modi want to set mt awm?
BUT IUUAT5 y/eowo with SEiuGGiiJeet KtUD AMP 6000?
mt voes golvim solve? nothing solves mothhjg so WHAT5 WRSM6 WITH HITT/NE1/ THAT^ MP MIOWW. StAUO 61ILL-11HIHK ILL PUIJCH HOU-
I WARM HOU, BUSTER-HOU LAU A HAMP ON ME, iU KWCK HOUR teeth out.
\11OLEMC6.	\flOL8HC6.i&
SOMEHOW!	MUCH BETTER
FEEL CLEAVER.	THAU HURT'
14
The Scholastic
PATRIOT OF THE YEAR
by John Gorman
Astronaut John Glenn, first American to orbit the earth, has been elected Patriot of the Year by the Senior Class. He will be honored at its annual Washington Day Exercises at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, February 24, in the Stepan Center. Colonel Glenn will address the student body and faculty after accepting the award.
The Washington Day Exercises were inaugurated in 1849 by Father Sorin. Their purpose is to constitute a public and official acknowledgement of “God, Country, and Notre Dame” through a commemoration of the University’s war dead. Around 1885 the tradition of the presentation of a flag to the University by the senior class was started. This flag is blessed and first flown on Senior Class Day, and is used throughout the next year.
The Senior Class Patriotism Award was inaugurated as part of the Exercises in 1954, and its presentation has become the outstanding feature of the event. The purpose of this award is to recognize a living American for his patriotic activities over an extended period of time. A patriot is seen as one who “loves and loyally supports his country, thus best exemplifying the American ideals of justice, personal integrity, courage of conviction and service to country . . . who has recognized and fulfilled, in the manner he deems best, his obligation to the American community.”
John H. Glenn, Jr. clearly fits this definition. He was raised in the small town of New Concord, Ohio. In 1939 he entered Muskingum College there. He was a substitute center on the football team and a B-average student. But World War H was on, and Glenn wanted to enter it as a pilot. He learned to fly in a Navy civilian program, and left college in his junior year to enter the Navy’s preflight training program.
In 1943 he entered the Marine Corps as a second lieutenant, and returned home to marry Annie Castor before leaving for combat duty in the Pacific.
Colonel Glenn compiled an impressive war record, flying 149 missions in World War n and Korea. He flew Navy jets on ground support missions in Korea; and, late in the war, shot
February 14, 1964
down three Russian MiG’s in nine days piloting Air Force F-86’s. He holds five Distinguished Flying Crosses and an air medal with 18 clusters.
After the war he became a Navy test pilot. In 1957 he broke the coast-to-coast speed record covering the distance in three hours and 23 minutes.
In 1957, with characteristic determination, he managed to become one of over 500 candidates for the Project Mercury Program, although handi-
capped by his age (37) and lack of a college degree. He survived the gruelling physical and mental tests to become one of the first group of seven astronauts. He worked intensely to master every aspect of space flight. He contributed ideas to the Project’s training program, and helped design the space capsule itself.
In 1961 Colonel Glenn was selected to become the first American to orbit the earth. After ten frustrating postponements, his capsule, Friendship 7, was launched from Cape Canaveral on February 20, 1962. As America and the world waited anxiously through the 4 hours and 56 minutes
of his three orbits, his calm, confident voice related his experiences in space. And the personal involvement of those listening to him was indicated by their relief at his safe landing and the tumultuous welcomes given him when he returned to America two days later.
His feat was hailed as a victory for the free world, a proof that a free society was capable of meeting the challenge of the modern world. It was an achievement that gave a much needed boost to the morale of America and the West.
John Glenn, personally, won the respect and admiration of the world with his humanity, humility, and sincere patriotism. President Kennedy awarded him the Distinguished Service Medal of the National Space Agency for his “intrepid courage.” Addressing a joint session of Congress, he impressed the legislators with the qualities that made him a great man as well as a national hero. He was greeted in New York by four million people and the biggest ticker tape parade in the history of the city.
Colonel Glenn has spent his time since the flight working with the Apollo and Gemini man-in-space programs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Last month he announced that he was resigning from the space program to seek the Democratic senatorial nomination in Ohio.
Colonel Glenn will arrive at Notre Dame from the manned spacecraft center in Houston on the afternoon of the 24th. There will be a cocktail party in the Trustees’ Room of the Morris Inn followed by a dinner attended by the senior class officers, Fr. Joyce and the other University vice-president, and the members of the Washington Day Committee: James Shay, James Hadded and Jay Kenny.
After the dinner Colonel Glenn will proceed to the Stepan Center. Father Joyce will accept the flag from Senior Class Vice-President Jack McCabe. Then Class President Bruce Tuthill will present Colonel Glenn with the plaque and scroll. A tribute composed by Professor Frank O’Malley will be read, and Colonel Glenn will deliver his address.
15
IF the deliberations of the Resolutions Committee are indicative of the final product, I can assure all those connected with the 1964 Mock Convention that their platform will be brief, well worded, and all-inclusive. In addition to these qualities, the ten planks upon which the Notre Dame nominee might stand will be singularly bland, unoriginal, and uninspiring. They will reflect a disinterested attitude and a passion for expediency rather than commitment.
The Resolutions Committee, whose task it is to prepare the preliminary draft of the platform, met in its first and final deliberative session on the night of February 6. Under a chairman appointed by the Political Science Academy, approximately twelve students (five representing the Young Republicans) presented and voted on the planks to be used. In most cases two alternatives were proposed, but the entire session, debate and voting time included, lasted only three hours. The planks which each member of the Committee presented had been assigned earlier and had been written by the individuals themselves. During the meeting, all debate was held to a minimum. Such issues as civil rights, foreign policy, labor, and education were treated in a summary and sometimes cynical fashion. Worse than the chairman's appeal for brevity was the willingness of the Committee members to assemble their document hastily. After two competing (but often similar) versions of a plank were read, the Committee voted.
Platform Polemics
by M. A. Noel
This method by which the planks were conceived generates the first objection to the results of the Resolutions Committee. It has been suggested by the Young Republicans and others that testimony be heard on various issues, and that more meetings be held to thrash out a meaningful preliminary platform. Such action would have more closely mirrored the procedure of the National Conventions, and would have brought a greater number of students into contact with the issues which will help determine who will be the Republican candidate. The comment was made that no interest would have been shown in open sessions of the Committee or in prepared testimony. However, several professors and students did express a desire to testify.
A second area of dissatisfaction arises from the Committee’s procedure for approving resolutions. More than once members abstained from voting. When amendments were offered to an accepted plank, the chairman stated that no vote could be taken on these suggestions. It was also learned that the final draft of the preliminary platform will be written by the chairman in consultation with members whose planks were accepted, and with an eye to cutting the whole document down to a prescribed number of pages. The Committee will meet to hear the final draft, but will not be able to alter or reject it. Thus, the Committee’s power to influence the text of the pre
liminary platform has been severely restricted.
Within the next two weeks, the Resolutions Committee will be expanded into a full size Platform Committee by adding members from each state delegation. This expanded Committee will receive the uninspired preliminary platform, and will bring up any objections to its planks. Rooms and auditoriums have been set aside for Committee meetings, and the members will be allowed to attempt changes in the outlined platform according to their political beliefs.
We can only hope that these delegates show more concern with all sides of the important issues in their consideration of a final 1964 platform. If they too are preoccupied with only the superficial problems of time, length, and controversial effect, then a great opportunity will have been lost. We at Notre Dame are not bound by the prospect of having to fight a campaign on our platform. We should be motivated by a desire to explore our nation’s problems and contribute our ideas to their solution. We must not fear controversy and originality in thought, but rather should avoid stagnation and disinterest. Any convention delegate who favors a certain candidate’s ideology should work to influence the platform toward his line of thinking. Any campaign manager who finds a plank unacceptable, or any delegation chairman whose people are dissatisfied with the preliminary platform, should demand changes and offer amendments.
Some politicians may point out that platforms are seldom considered important on the national scale. But it is obvious to everyone that now, in 1964, the Republican Party is undergoing a tremendous internal struggle stemming from ideological differences. Sen. Goldwater believes it his duty to offer the American people the alternative of conservatism. Gov. Rockefeller hopes to save the party from becoming controlled by a minority’s “unprogressive stand.” Gov. Romney stresses a moral revitalization of our people, and Gov. Scranton tells young Republicans that they should contribute to the thinking of the party as well as to its organizational machinery. In the face of these sundry propositions, Notre Dame’s 1964 platform must be committed to a stand. If this commitment does not occur, then our platform will exemplify disinterest rather than dedication, and expediency rather than involvement. Displaying such qualities, the Notre Dame convention would be a mock indeed.
16
The Scholastic
Tartuffe
'T'here has been some rather serious doubt about the degree of success to be expected from the 19631964 University Theatre. Richard Kavanaugh was gone, and, for most of us, it was hard to imagine the Theatre’s putting on a play even moderately successfully without him. As a matter of fact, the one serious criticism to be made of the Theatre in the last few years was that it was too obviously a one-man show, and that the plays presented tended to become virtuoso performances. This, of course, was nobody’s fault: Kavanaugh set a standard of professionalism which the other members of the Theatre could not fairly be asked to meet; the-actors themselves displayed an unavoidable self-consciousness in the face of this precocity, and the audience — especially in last year’s unfortunate Billy Budd — could not ignore the gap. And, imagining this year’s company inevitably as a group of obvious amateurs deprived of their one competent member, we could not be very optimistic about the 63-64 series of plays.
Ironically, and happily, all these predictions have turned out to be quite incorrect, and the current University Theatre production of Moliere’s Tartuffe, under the direction of Mr. Fred W. Syburg, is not only an amazingly well-done play, but a hopeful sign for the Theatre’s future. And it is probably the absence of Mr. Kavanaugh from the cast which accounts for the production’s special kind of excellence, for the excellence is that of a group of avowed amateurs, all very nearly at the same level of achievement, working together with mutual comprehension and confidence. If the plays under the Kavanaugh regime were fine virtuoso performances, then Tartuffe is a fine orchestral performance, and if the awe of watching single genius work (as in last year’s Hamlet) is gone, then the pleasure of watching the play itself, in a homogenious presentation, has
February 14, 1964
by Frank D. McConnell
been increased. And I am not sure but that the latter effect is not, after all, the more satisfying.
The very direction of the play seems to have taken the new characteristics of the Theatre group into account, and is thoroughly intelligent and efficient, wringing the last possible degree of stage effect from the talent level of the actors. Tartuffe itself, of course, allows for — even demands — a certain declamatory sort of delivery from the performers, who are, after all, portraying types. And this sort of declamation and on-stage attitudinizing are well within the reach of the cast, where the subtleties of, say, a Shakespearian comedy would not have been. The play operates from a base of set speeches and near-caricatures, and the performers, notably Janine Saxe as Mariane, Michael Hartford as Orgon, and C. Michael Newbrand as Valere, caricature extremely well. Furthermore, the somewhat dated quality of parts of the play as an actual stage presentation allow for some fine moments of the sort of self-kidding which, done tastefully, is a real joy in less-than-professional dramatics. Orgon’s slapstick foolery, for instance, done during the long moralizations of Cleante (played by Patrick Kelly), save parts of the play which would have been otherwise hard to take from anything less than a fully professional company. And the final speech of the Police Officer (played by Dave Clen-non on the night I saw the play), which could have been disastrous, is carried off to perfection simply by making it sound even more square than it really is (the Police Officer speaks the encomium to the King in a high-middle-Mississippi dialect, and in the manner of a ten-year-old reciting at a PTA review), and thereby uniting audience and performers in a chummy laugh at the pretensions of presenting this particular speech in a college-theatrical context.
But the fine management of Tar
tuffe is more than supported by most of the performances of individual actors. The hypocrite himself is played by a young man with the too-good-to-be-true name of David Garrick, Jr. He does commendably for the most part, excellently in some of the scenes, and, when trying to seduce Orgon’s wife Elmire for the first time, gets in some great mugging. Barbara Quinn, as Elmire, is properly reasonable and wise-looking most of the time, but unfortunately stiff in a few scenes. Dan Roberto, as Elmire’s son Damis, is supposed to rant a great deal and smirk a great deal, and he rants and smirks convincingly a great deal. C. Michael Newbrand, as Mariane’s lover, Valere, is, as I have said, a very convincing cow-eyed young romantic. His scene of quarrel and reconciliation with Mariane is carried very well by him, and only occasionally does he give an impression of overexaggeration or clumsiness. Mr. Newbrand, indeed, whose acting I found rather unsatisfying in some of the productions last year, seems to have developed a new and happy competence in the new, more relaxed atmosphere of this year’s company. The only really unsatisfying member of the cast, indeed, is Angela Schreiber, who has the role of Madame Pemelle. She muffed lines fairly frequently on the night I was there, and has an annoying habit of reciting fervidly, rather than of delivering, her lines.
The comic trio who really carry the play, however, are Judie Smock as the maid Dorine, Janine Saxe as Mariane, and Michael Hartford as Orgon. Miss Smock is by turns mordant, pert, and cute, and always manages to keep her sensible-servant character just this side of smart-aleckness. Miss Saxe, as a dizzy, partly spoiled young romantic, is excellent. Her expression, posture, and voice present perfectly the sort of fluffball Mariane should be, the only flaw in her performance being a (Continued on page 35)
17
CONJUGAL LOVE REVISITED
In the January 1~ issue of the Scholastic reporter Frank Smith presented a review of the lecture “Conjugal Love and Responsible Parenthood” given by Dr. William D’Antonio. (“Love or License.” in Campus at a Glance). The review has stirred up comment throughout the University and has been seen by some as a challenge to Church teaching on the subject of birth control (see “Letters”). Here Dr. D’Antonio clarifies his position and Mr. Smith explains the basis for his own commentary on the lecture.
COMMENT:
by Dr. D’Antonio
I would like to comment on the summary statement of my talk on conjugal love which appeared in your January 17, 1964 issue of the Scholastic. The summary statement in general is a fair statement of my talk, but there are a number of statements made which, I believe, do not accurately reflect my thinking. Because of the seriousness of the problem involved and the necessity to speak carefully and as clearly as possible, I would like to review these statements and compare them with what I actually did say. I hope you will pardon the somewhat lengthy quotations which it will be necessary for me to make here, but I believe the subject is of sufficient importance to all of us to merit the space needed. I will proceed point by point as these points appear in the summary statement in the Scholastic.
The writer summarizes my discussion of the problem of the use of rhythm as a means of controlling family size and then concludes, and I quote, “for these reasons Dr. D’Antonio concluded that rhythm was not a satisfactory answer to the problems of population control.” I would not say that I concluded that rhythm is not a satisfactory answer to the problems of population control. What I did do was to show the difficulties with the use of rhythm at the present time, with the great majority of married couples where the wife does not enjoy a perfectly normal fertility cycle. The extensive period of time required for continence produces problems which the writer in the Scholastic summarized very well. What I did say was that “it will be another ten years probably before a drug will be perfected. which will so regulate
the fertility cycle that it will be possible to know exactly when ovulation is taking place within the female. Under these conditions a period of continence of only 5 or 6 days would be necessary. And the certainty of the method might be appealing to many non-Catholics as well as to Catholics. It could resolve the problem for the majority of the people in areas of the world where literacy is widespread. But what of the present?” In essence, then, I was saying that at the present time the rhythm method is not a satisfactory control method for the majority of Catholic couples at least in the United States, and, judging from the evidence available from other countries, not there either.
Further on in the article, in trying to summarize a series of complex statements which I made, the writer said that “according to Dr. D’Antonio two cardinal principles should guide those who seek to find a solution to the problem.” In the next sentence the author states “first, all solutions should take into account the consideration of the best method to preserve conjugal love, making the act of procreation a secondary consideration. The primary function of marriage is not procreation, but a love between two people which seeks to achieve the optimal development in each person. Procreation should flow naturally from this bond of love, and not be made to seem as a grim obligation of marriage.” The difficulty I find with this passage is that the writer got me involved in making “the act of procreation the secondary consideration.” Let me quote from the text of my talk on this point because so much hinges on it in the theological writings and in the teaching of the Church up to the present. Here is what I did say:
Now the question arises what is the relationship of sexual intercourse to parenthood? It is clear that I have rejected the notion that the primary function of intercourse is procreation. Perhaps rejected is not the right word. It would be more correct to say that I find the traditional statement to be wanting, to place this action almost solely at the biological level. And the traditional position is still found in the press: for example, in the January 5, 1964, issue of our Sunday Visitor, Father Richard Ginder says, among other things; “the fact is that just as the eye was meant
for seeing and the stomach to receive food so the sexual faculty is primarily for reproduction.” We start from there. That is divine law, and no degree of rationalization or special pleading can change it.
But how do we know that this is divine law? Christ instituted the sacrament of marriage, not of parenthood. God created Eve for Adam because it was not good for man to be alone, and then he said “be fertile and multiply.” The obviousness of such an assertion as that the sexual faculty is primarily for reproduction should be clear to reason. But is it?
I must wonder why God created man differently from the lower animals with regard to the sexual faculty. The fact is that the lower animals have only periodic sexual attraction, and that this does lead to the reproduction of their kind. But man is not so limited. He can have sexual relations anytime during the year, during fertile and infertile periods, and the interest in sexual relations may not be less for couples even during periods of pregnancy. It is also very clear that married couples may expect to live together now for 50 years or more. If they marry at age 25, they may have as many years together after the child bearing years as during these same years. What does it mean to place such emphasis on reproduction for couples whose sexual activity may be expected to extend for so many years beyond the reproductive period? To put the primary emphasis on reproduction is to make marriage out to be almost a grim obligation with love incidental. I prefer to see the situation in a different perspective. If love is the central focus, then we may say that conjugal love is “the essence of the marriage as a sacrament.” We do not enter marriage because we have to have children, nor do we enter marriage as a kind of bargain by which we gain sexual pleasures in return for which we guarantee to God that we will keep his race going by procreating as often as we can. Rather, it should be seen that a couple in love wants to have children, as Father Herring expresses the thought. Procreation and education should be seen as the way by which the couple ful
18
The Scholastic
fill their love, bring it to its full unity. In other words, the process of procreation and education of children should be one in which conjugal love is cultivated and brought to its full fruition. Procreation should not be a process which in any way diminishes conjugal love anymore than conjugal love should diminish the value and importance of procreation. The two processes are inextricably intertwined. I find it impossible to give primacy to one over the other bceause of the injustice done to the one which seems to be given the lesser value. It is love and not obligation that should bind man to woman.
The reason for quoting at such length here is that the question of ends of marriage is involved in the •problem which I raised. And, of course, in the Scholastic article as it was stated the act of procreation is only a secondary consideration. I simply do not want to leave the impression that procreation is a secondary end of marriage.
Further on the writer of the Scholastic article says, and I quote: “Secondly, we. must remember that we are rational creatures and do not have to be subject to the laws of nature.” This is a rather unfortunate statement because the rest of the paragraph might be acceptable; but how the author could interpret anything I said to mean that we do not have to be subject to the laws of nature I just don’t know. Nowhere in my paper can I find any such statement or any statement which could imply such a ridiculous thought. Let me quote all that I do say about man as a rational animal.
I accept man as a rational creature who is in some sense free, that is, that his behavior is not determined by forces beyond his control. Rather, as a rational animal, he is able potentially at least to control his behavior, and that this control can extend over virtually all aspects of human life. Furthermore, I believe that the most important commandment that we must follow in this life is to love our neighbor as we love ourselves and to fulfill this commandment we must use our rational faculties.
Finally, in the last paragraph the writer, in summing up my closing remarks, said that “laymen should demand that the problem be restudied in respect to the ends of married life,
the married life as a whole, and the possible use of contraceptives.” Again, this may be a matter of emphasis, but let me quote exactly how I did phrase the problem.
We must ask for a thorough reconsideration of the whole question of contraception. In other words, all of the above recommendations may suggest that the basic statement that contraception is by very nature evil is a closed question. I would urge that it not be considered closed. The clergy, including the theologians especially, know that many laymen do not find the traditional arguments compelling. If they are, in fact, compelling, then it should be possible to make them so in language that we can understand. If not, why not?
Thank you very much for giving me the space to clarify these important points. I would hope that if there is going to be some discussion in the Scholastic or elsewhere about the relationship of conjugal love to responsible parenthood, that such discussion does not begin with the misunderstanding about what I actually did say. I expect, of course, that there will be discussion even about what I did say and the emphasis which I gave in my talk. I look forward to critical replies to these remarks.
REPLY:
by Frank Smith
As I stand in the position of the “villain” in Dr. D’Antonio’s rather long letter which precedes this one, I naturally take a special interest in his remarks. Since covering the lecture I have acquired the written text of Dr. D’Antonio’s talk. After a close study of the text, I have decided that there are points in my article at which Dr. D’Antonio has demonstrated a just indignation, but, on the other hand, there are points in his letter which I feel are either unwarranted complaints about my coverage of important concepts or else verbose attacks-on trivial points of the article. As Dr. D’Antonio does, I will proceed point by point over the concepts of his letter and my article.
The first point on which he comments concerns the matter of rhythm. He states in the letter that he would not agree that he concluded that rhythm was an unsatisfactory answer to the problems of population control.
I, in turn, must disagree with him on his contention that he did not reach this conclusion. Dr. D’Antonio bases this claim on the statement in his lecture that “it may be that within ten years” a drug will be produced which will regulate the fertility cycle of the female. But, as he so pointedly puts it himself, “But what of the present?” It is this present to which I referred in my article, and not to what may be the case ten years from now. Quoting my own words, “The lecture was characterized by its refreshingly frank approach to the unique problem faced by Catholic married couples today, that of birth control.” Looking at the problem as an immediate one which must be faced now, regardless of what may happen in the future, I think that I have explained Dr. D’Antonio’s view accurately; that view is that rhythm is an unsatisfactory answer. To quote from his text, “I would go even further and say that the necessity to practice extended continence tends to produce an obsession with sex, which manifests itself in tension and hostility between the partners.” From a statement such as this, I believe that Dr. D’Antonio’s conclusion that rhythm is an unsatisfactory answer for today’s Catholic married couples is obvious.
The second point which Dr. D’Antonio criticizes is my version of his views on the functions of marriage. On this point his criticism is entirely justified. To say that procreation is a secondary consideration of the bond of marriage is not an accurate reflection of his views. As is evident from the long quote given in his letter Dr. D’Antonio professes that it is impossible to give primacy to procreation or conjugal love; he finds the two functions of marriage to be of equal value. But, on the other hand, Dr. D’Antonio does emphasize the value of conjugal love as opposed to that of procreation. Perhaps he does this because the emphasis has been on the procreation side for so long. Again quoting from his text, “To put the primary emphasis on reproduction is to make marriage out to be almost a grim obligation with love incidental. I prefer to see the situation in a different perspective. If love is the central focus, then we may say that conjugal love is 'the essence of the marriage as a sacrament.’ ”
The third point of the article that Dr. D’Antonio criticizes is on the matter of man and his relationship to the laws of nature. Here again I must admit that he has made a valid criticism, but I believe this dissension centers around the words used. By using the words “law” and “nature,” (Continued on page 35)
February 14, 1964
19
CANDIDATES 'lit: Part I:
Henry Cabot Lodge
by Joe Wilson
e has more political assets 11 than any man I know. I expect Henry Cabot Lodge to be President eventually.”
The above statement was made back in the early forties by an impressed Republican strongman, Michigan’s Arthur H. Vandenberg. The basis for the comment was laid as early as 1924 when the recipient of an impressive political heritage began his own training, starting as a cub reporter for the Boston Transcript. Solely emphasizing politics in his journalistic endeavors he gained wide experience, covering a national convention and even interviewing Italy’s Mussolini.
Lodge broke into his political career when, in 1932, he was elected to the Massachusetts house of representatives. When he was 34, in 1936, he became U.S. Senator and served in this capacity until John Kennedy took his seat by 67,000 votes (of 2,300,000) in 1952, while he managed Dwight Eisenhower’s successful presidential campaign. There was a short 3-year “break” in World War II when he resigned his Senate seat to take part in military action. The decorated hero returned to the Senate, but with a new outlook on foreign policy — internationalism must replace the dangerously outmoded isolationism .oL the. prewar years.
After World War H he noticeably concerned himself with “national preparedness.” His policies held generally for an honest support of the United Nations, a strong and unified military power in the Pentagon, and a strongly defined policy in our relations both with allies and enemies. His stand, meanwhile, in domestic problems, especially civil rights, has generally been what one might call “left-of-center.” He has said: “When the world press carries one newspaper story about one Negro being brutally treated, we do ourselves more harm than the Soviet Union does with all the distortion of its propaganda.” As early as March, 1950, he showed a desire to offer “a welfare society without a welfare state ... a selfliquidating plan.” In the same year he proposed a tax revision that would, by increasing venture capital and aiding small businessmen, reward busi
nesses which lowered prices and increased production and stabilized employment. Again, he posited a broad program of civil rights that would have eliminated segregation in housing and federally subsidized educational projects.
Showing his distaste for bureaucracy, Lodge supported the National Defense Reorganization Act of 1947, backed increased authority for the Secretary of Defense, and co-authored the Lodge-Brown Act which resulted in the formation of the Hoover Commission on government reorganization. “My prime reason for favoring unification (of the armed services) is that I think it utterly vital to have the chain of command clearly set up and clearly established,” he said.
Lodge’s partisan loyalty, his stand that held for the re-election of Wisconsin’s Senator McCarthy, hurt him in the 1952 election but was only indicative of his desire to show a definite and firm position. His partisan stands do not extend into the legislative field, however. In the 82nd Congress (1951-52), for example, he voted with the GOP in 56% of all issues. The Republican average was 79%.
But when, in 1952, he lost his Senate seat, President Eisenhower made him Chief United States Representative at the United Nations and granted him Cabinet membership. His record at the U.N. is marked by many brilliant debates: Korean War negotiations, the Suez and Hungarian crises of late 1956, Arctic bomber flights, U.S. open skies proposals, the Laotian situation, and the repeated battles over the seating of Communist China. His brilliant replies in the chambers of the United Nations have much of the emotional in them, but even more, show an understanding of “people” and a wide grasp of problems in an uncomfortable situation. On March 11, 1953, Russia’s Andrei Vishinsky remarked that “America was going to lose Asia anyway.” The reply from Lodge: “That astounding remark made me realize how far apart his view of humanity is from mine. The United States is not trying to get Asia. We have never thought of Asia as some sort of object inhabited by slaves which was to be won or lost by outsiders.”
Lodge was Khrushchev’s “traveling companion” during the Russian premier’s visit to the U.S., and later headed the 12-nation Atlantic Institute wherein he worked closely with leaders of the “New Europe” and the Common Market. His report, “Partnership for Progress,” reveals an “Atlantic Community” outlook — “Our shrinking world cries for greater unity.”
Finally, in 1963, Lodge was sent to our only “hot” war, that in Viet Nam. He was, after all, the obvious choice foi' ambassador to the divided country: a major-general in the Reserves, he understands the military; his knowledge and diplomatic experience are invaluable in a vital spot such as Southeast Asia.
But Viet Nam is many miles from Washington, D.C., and Henry Cabot Lodge is many miles from the presidency. People who recognize the value of his experience and the idealism and devotion that are characteristic of him have recommended him for the presidential nomination. But it may „• not be politically expedient to nomi- 'J nate the man; not only is he geo- t graphically out of touch, but he made 0 up the latter half of a losing Republican ticket in 1960. The old Taft supporters still have a personal grudge from the 1952 convention. But, most important, he is way behind other contenders in the race; there would have to be much stumbling and bungling to bring Lodge in as holder of the Republican presidential nomination. But it would not be strange for the man — and it would be typical for the Republican party.
20
The Scholastic
In an age of political innovation, we are not surprised that a devout Mormon who builds compact automobiles can be elected Governor of Michigan, and suddenly find himself involved in national politics. After only two years in his first important elective office, George W. Romney announced on Jan. 7 that he would be available for a draft by the Republican National Convention. It’s generally conceded that Michigan’s Governor would jump at the chance to be President, and one commentator has even gone so far as to say, “George Romney wants to be President so bad, he can taste it.”
At age 56, Governor Romney cuts an unusual figure on the political stage. He was born in Mexico and has lived in almost every section of the country. As a Mormon missionary in Scotland and a president of his local church, George Romney displayed his religious side. He took his first job as a salesman for Alcoa Co. and subsequently represented that company in Washington as a lobbyist. In 1937, he served as President of an organization of lobbyists. When World War II broke out, Romney was appointed general director of the Automobile Manufacturers Association, in which position he helped organize the industry for war production.
In 1948, this experienced organizer became the personal assistant of George Mason, Chairman of Nash-Kelvinator. After the merger of Hudson and Nash-Kelvinator in 1954, Romney succeeded Mason as chairman and president of the firm. He proceeded to overhaul the company “from stem to stern,” and to stress the compact car in America. By 1958 (a recession year) American Motors was making a substantial profit and had increased its production of automobiles fivefold. Three years ago, Romney earned the admiration of labor by signing the first profit-sharing plan in the automobile industry. The credo of this successful businessman is based on “a passionate conviction that monopoly, either by labor or by industry, is bad for America.”
Michigan’s Governor is a newcomer to professional politics, but his interest in civic affairs began long
George Romney
by Mel Noel
ago. Experience during the war as an industry coordinator of war production gave Romney a look at the dealings of executive agencies. Later, in 1956, he became chairman of the Detroit Citizens’ School Advisory Council, a group which made a two-year study of Detroit schools. Most of their 200 recommendations were accepted by the city. When his state faced financial breakdown in 1960, Romney helped organize the Citizens for Michigan Committee. The com-
mittee decided that a flat rate income tax must be introduced to furnish the necessary state revenue. In the same year, Citizens for Michigan began to push for a new state constitution. The old document had been amended 69 times and was considered unworkable. On Sept. 12, 1961, a Constitutional Convention met and Romney was elected one of its three vice-presidents. His efforts in the convention were important, and his pleas for a sincere nonpartisan revision of the state government received much publicity.
With his name before the public, and as one who would understand and
fight for the new constitution, Romney ran for Governor in 1962. His opponent, Gov. John B. Swainson, was a war hero and a successful Democratic politician. On the main issues, Michigan’s fiscal problems and the reorganization of state government, Romney’s position was strengthened by his vitality and lack of identification with the state's recent political history. Gov. Swainson had all the concrete advantages — a larger Democratic registration, the unified backing of his Party, and an organization fed by 14 years of Democratic rule. But the desire for a different approach to Michigan’s stifling problems was shown by the electorate. George Romney made dents in usually Democratic labor and Negro votes; he made sure of Republican support, and then concentrated on the enemy camp. The Democratic Party attempted a holding action, but failed by over 50,000 ballots.
With the Governorship of Michigan under his belt, Romney began to look very much like William Scranton of Pennsylvania — prime presidential timber. Then last November the Governor’s tax proposals came before the Michigan legislature. As in many states, the legislature was dominated by old-guard Republicans who opposed tax reform. Thus, it seemed certain that Romney would follow his campaign strategy and appeal' to Democrats for support. However, Governor Romney ignored the Democrats, and tackled the hopeless task of winning over all the Republican legislators to his program. Why the shift in personal policy? One legislator said: “He stumbled over his presidential ambitions.” And while ambition might not have been the cause, the effect was certain. In late November, the legislature buried the entire Romney tax program.
In the past few months, Gov. Romney has been trying to offset his legislative failures through a peripheral action. He hopes to influence party leaders and the Platform Committee in San Francisco. As Michigan’s favorite son, Romney will control some votes at the National Convention and will hope for a deadlock which might realign all the delegates. But in spite of his personal appeal, George Romney is wearing the albatross of legislative defeat around his political neck, and it will not be easily discarded. The Governor himself realizes that caution will be his best ally. As he told the National Press Club in January: “I certainly hope to pursue a course of activities that would permit me to have some influence on what might happen nationally in 1964.”
February 14, 1964
21
by Robert Haller
A helicopter glides over modern Rome towing a statue of Christ to St. Peter’s. Reporters follow it; construction workers wave to it; and children run after its shadow. Then it is gone and Federico Fellini’s apocalyptic La Dolce Vita has begun. Condemned by the Vatican newspaper and championed by the Jesuits — “cannot do harm and can do much good" — it became a scandal in Italy and then a center of controversy throughout the free world. Now, with the knowledge and perspective of time, we can better assess the value of La Dolce Vita both in itself and in its relation to Federico Fellini’s work as a whole.
Fellini has described La Dolce Vita as a “kind of baroque merry-go-round, a dance of images that move here and there without resting and thus compose something like a fresco of modern society.’’ He composed this fresco (an explicit allegory on the human condition) by creating a world of individuals, following a few, and then hurling them all at the audience with such an increasing rapidity that they became faceless representatives of their society. The whole edifice is constructed around seven nights in a reporter’s (Marcello Mastroianni) life. Originally an observer rather than an accomplice, he, like the others, is caught up in a life where “the great thing is to burn and not to freeze.’’
Marcello is drawn into the “sweet parade” by many forces and among the most important is the influence of the wasteland in which he lives. He likes the Via Veneto because it is a warm “jungle” and this strongly contrasts with the arid glimpses we get of Rome and its environs. The city Fellini shows us is a starkly modern and impersonal one where large concrete buildings are surrounded by
vacant lots and roads leading to similar dead-white structures. Marcello left this sterile existence for the conspicuous neon-lit artificial life of the Via Veneto.
This rejection of and alienation from the world recurs throughout the picture, and reaches its climax when the aristocrats return from their night in the castle. Walking in the cold morning light they meet the Prince’s mother on her way to Mass, and from the soundtrack Fellini rings the pure clean tones of a bell, announcing the old woman and tolling the loss of another world. Then he cuts to Marcello and Emma arguing on a deserted highway at midnight. They appear to be suspended in space with only the glare of the street lamps assuring their existence as they shout out their futile argument over an alien and irritating hum (not unlike that of used recordings played beyond interest). So often Fellini shows us one building standing alone in darkness, or people emerging from the shadows, or carrying lights, islands in a sea that finally vomits up the bloated body of a dying monster. As the revelers stand on the beach watching it die, it is at once both an intimation of their mortality (their inability to escape from reality) and a picture of what they have already become.
Another force acting on Marcello is the perverse but haunting relationship he has with the wealthy nymphomaniac Maddalena (Anouk Aimee). He is attracted by her lonely beauty, and she by his apparent freedom of action. But their love and her hope of escape is as fragile as the tenuous bond that joins the two isolated chambers of Prince Mascalchi’s castle. When she is silenced their chance is gone, and Marcello drifts further out into the main stream of the “sweet
life.” Then Steiner dies, Marcello falls further, and, celebrating the divorce of one of his companions, he becomes more of a harlequin than a human being. No longer a reporter of la dolce vita, Marcello promotes it as a publicity agent.
Steiner’s death and the murder of his children have attracted more adverse criticism than any other segment of the movie, but for the wrong reasons. It was necessary, as Fellini has said, to shock Marcello, but Steiner’s manner of dying was not out of character or a mere pretext as some critics have suggested. In the decadent atmosphere of La Dolce Vita his character almost demanded such an act of self-destruction. Fellini ended Steiner’s first appearance by setting him at an organ grimly playing a moody Bach fugue; in his apartment he is surrounded by books, the exoticly perverse, and art works “bathed in the light of memory”; and in this environment Steiner says, “Any life, even the most miserable, is worth more than a sheltered existence in a world where everything is organized. ...” Believing himself out of touch with reality, and fearing it — “I think of the world that my children will know . . . (but) it needs only the gesture of a madman to destroy everything” — we can find the motivation behind his death.
It seems to me, however, that Fellini can be criticized for some of the elements he placed in Steiner and his friends. La Dolce Vita abounds in high comedy (sometimes ridiculous — Sylvia; sometimes in shock — the last episodes) but to introduce Steiner by way of a Sanskrit grammar and surround him with pompous bores like Repaci (“the only authentic woman is the Oriental woman. After all . . .”) can only lead to disbelief in his audience. Fortunately these lapses are only momentary and what we remember is the newsreel-like brilliance of scenes like the paparazzi scurrying about Steiner’s unsuspecting wife as she returns to her apartment.
Meanwhile Fellini has constructed an incredible fabric of characters and situations. By bombarding his audience with the child-like Sylvia, the animal Frankie Stout, Marcello’s possessive mistress, Marcello’s father’s heart attack, the aloof intellectuals, the moody aristocrats, the innocent Paola, the hawk-like paparazzi, the false miracles, the prostitutes, transvestites, homosexuals, and suicides, he has succeeded in conjuring up a world whirling its way to destruction. Across the water stands Paola, and Marcello, dazed and unhearing, (Continued on page 32)
22
The Scholastic
CABERFAE
Wine, Women, and even skiing attracted Notre Dame scholars to Caberfae for 5 energetic days after final examinations. These activities — and the results — are here vividly depicted by “Scholastic” photo editor Pat Ford.
February 14, 1964
23
CRISIS IN PANAMA
by Jim McGloin
The Panama crisis is a complex and confused situation, not yet fully understood by anyone. Nevertheless, as an American citizen born in the Republic of Panama and a resident of the Canal Zone, I feel compelled at least to attempt a meaningful appraisal of Panama’s recrudescent discontent and the situation in general, especially for those who have had to rely upon unbalanced and often inaccurate information from which to draw their conclusions. I hope that my fondness for Panama and its people will offset my sympathy for the people of the Canal Zone, enabling me to be as objective as possible in writing this article.
We shall consider underlying conditions that have encouraged the eruption of violence in Panama; the events leading to the outburst; the violence itself; the political significance of the situation; U.S.-Panama differences and impediments to their resolution; and possible courses of action to effect a settlement.
When Panama separated from Colombia in 1903, it negotiated with the U.S. the Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty, by which it leased to the United States in perpetuity the area known as the Canal Zone (553 square miles of land and water) for the construction, operation, maintenance and protection of the Panama Canal. At the same time, it granted to the U.S. complete and exclusive sovereignty in the Canal Zone. In return, the United States guaranteed Panama’s independence, paid the new government $10,000,000, and promised an annuity of $250,000, subsequently revised to $430,000, and then to the present SI,930,000.
Panama has long disputed the 1903 Treaty, feeling that it excessively favors the United States, and that the U.S. Government had taken advantage of a helpless infant republic. Panamanians naturally resent U.S. occupation of the Canal Zone and exclusive control of the Canal. They consider the annuity too small and the width of the Canal unduly great. The flag issue, the question of sovereignty, the better-paying jobs for Americans in the Canal Zone, and the large American colony with a U.S. standard of living have been other irritants. But these rather nationalistic resentments are stirred by a discontent that goes much deeper, that seems to lie in the political, social and
24
economic ills of Panama’s underprivileged.
The construction of the Panama Canal had an extraordinary economic effect on the Republic of Panama, and its operation and maintenance remain a great source of income (in 1962, $84,395,000 poured into Panama’s economy directly from the Canal Zone, including the annuity — more than Panama’s entire budget of $65,000,000). Moreover, the young nation has made significant independent strides in its development, deriving considerable revenues from its national industry, commerce, and tourist trade. Yet many of Panama’s people live in utter destitution. Con
trasts of wealth and poverty are extreme. Unemployment and underemployment are inordinately high, even though about 25,000 of those, residing in the. Republic find work in the Canal, Zone. Most of Panama’s people are inadequately housed, many living in the most miserable slums. Many of the people lack enough to eat and wear, and, what is worse, they are not in a position to grow the food and fiber they need. Most of the land is owned by a small upper class, which lives in luxury, and political control by this same minority prevents governmental distribution of the large estates. Consequently, much ‘ of the land lies dormant or is underdeveloped. We have then, in Panama, the government of a minority resting upon the subjugation of a majority forced by circumstances to endure a life of inhuman degradation.
Such woeful conditions naturally cultivate among the degraded and demoralized the kind-of hateful, dis
content likely to burst at a chance spark into the flaming violence and irrationality we have seen in Panama. Such conditions, furthermore, bring strong support to demagogues in Panama, who can point to the 1903 Treaty, the U.S. occupation of the Canal Zone and other irritants, and raise the cry of “Yanqui imperialism,” “exploitation,” and “colonialism.”
Panama’s discontent is aggravated by the large colony of Americans occupying the Canal Zone. But to blame the Zonians (as the Americans there are called) for having “spawned the bitterness” in Panama is unfair and unjustified. Save for a few malcon
tents, the Canal Zone people try to get along with their Panamanian neighbors, and most of them do. Many Zonians have numerous Panamanian friends and share in the social and cultural life of the country. Most of the Zonians sing Panamanian songs, dance Panama’s folk dances, and eat Panamanian food; and many are married to Panamanians. Zonians, too, engage in social work in Panama, helping less fortunate Panamanians on a people-to-people basis. Regrettably, though, few Zonians learn to speak Spanish fluently, primarily because of the widespread use of English in Panama. This is being remedied now, however, with particular emphasis being placed upon Spanish in Canal Zone schools. The Zonians, by and large, are a cross section of the American people and much the same as they are found in the U.S. Living as they do on a kind of Government reservation, dedicated to the opera-
The Scholastic
tion and protection of the Panama Canal, they can hardly be blamed for preserving for their families the American way of life and standard of living, while at the same time participating in the traditions of Panama.
The “anti-Americanism” in Panama is not personal; it is not directed at the individual American. It is rather a kind of nationalistic resentment by Panamanians of foreign occupation and control of a portion of their country; it is the same kind of resentment Americans would feel if another nation exercised sovereign rights over a comparable segment of the United States. With sound relations, economic as well as political, between Panama and the U.S., such nationalistic resentment would not be likely to reach terrible proportions. But aroused by unsatisfactory terms with the U.S. and heightened by the strong internal discontent of underprivileged Panamanians, the resentment became explosive.
Having seen, then, that the situation in Panama was such that just a chance spark could set off a violent and irrational reaction, let us turn to the issues and events which provided that spark and to the violence that followed. I relate these events at length, although in a rather summary fashion, because of the numerous conflicting and often inaccurate reports of the situation, which have led to confusion among American readers, and then to a distorted picture of what really happened. Most of the facts have been taken from the Spillway, a weekly publication of the Panama Canal, which I think presents a truthful account of the action.
The flag issue has long been a source of controversy between Americans and Panamanians. Objectively, it seems obvious that the flags of both Panama and the United States should have flown together in the Zone since 1903, representing each nation’s contribution to the Canal — ’ Panama providing the natural resources and manpower, and the U.S. the financial resources and skilled labor — and reflecting the desire of both countries to live and work together peacefully. However, the flags were not flown together, and Panamanian demands in recent years that their flag be flown in the Zone, in recognition of Panama’s “titular sovereignty” there, were opposed by many Americans. The U.S. citizens were already on the defensive because of numerous arrangements made by the U.S. to improve job opportunities for Panamanians in the Canal Zone. Such arrangements had
seemed to the Zonians to encourage Panamanian encroachment upon the Zone, thus posing a threat to their job security. They felt that the Panamanian flag on the Canal Zone would lead to a lessening of U.S. authority there and eventual Panamanian control.
The flag of Panama was finally flown in the Canal Zone in September, 1960, and in 1963 the U.S. agreed that the two flags would fly together in the Zone wherever the American flag was flown, effective January 2, 1964. Seventeen sites were chosen for the dual flags, but the high schools were not among them. The flag issue had become an emotional one for Americans and Panamanians alike, and many felt that dual displays at the schools might lead to flag incidents.
Thus, on January 2 of this year, the display of the American flag outside the schools was discontinued, in accordance with the commitment to Panama to fly two or none. The students resented the removal of flags from their schools, and on the morning of January 7, a small group of students raised the American flag at Balboa High School, in direct defiance of the governor’s orders. Within an hour school officials had removed the flag, but shortly thereafter students raised a smaller one, supported by a group of about 150 of Balboa High’s 1,851 students. The students’ action was not prevented this time, because the governor felt that physical restraint should be avoided, in the expectation that once the protest demonstration had achieved its purpose the flag could be lowered quietly.
The students, however, were determined that the flag stay up, despite Governor Fleming’s plea for cooperation: “I would . . . like to emphasize that we have a particular responsibility here in the Canal Zone, where our actions are subject to direct view by citizens of other countries. I request the cooperation of all U.S. citizens at this time in honoring our country’s commitments and in showing our good faith by our own actions.” The students ignored the governor’s appeal and continued to fly their flag, about 25 of them standing vigil during the night to prevent removal of the flagpole.
These insolent children, scarcely representative, I think, of Canal Zone students in general, were obviously ignorant of the seriousness of their actions, given the uneasy situation in Panama; a situation even more uneasy than usual because of Panama’s current presidential campaigns, in which differences with the U.S.
were major issues. Indeed, they seem to have been entirely oblivious even to the existence of such a situation. I wonder how they could have considered their actions “patriotic” when they were in defiance of U.S. commitments and opposed to the nation’s best interests. Sadly enough, these children found sympathy and encouragement from equally ignorant and irresponsible adults.
The student activity was printed in detail in Panamanian newspapers, which made it seem that American students objected to the display of the Panamanian flag, as well as to the discontinuance of their own flag. Once again emotions were aroused in the Republic over the flag issue.
These were the events leading to the march of an estimated 200 Panamanian high-school students into the Canal Zone in the late afternoon of Thursday, January 9. The students, who were from the Institute Nacional, in Panama City, carried with them small Panamanian flags, a large Panamanian flag with their student emblem, and such signs as “Panama is sovereign in the Canal Zone.” They were halted by Zone policemen about one block from Balboa High School, where they informed the Police Commander that they wished to fly their flag at the school and sing their national anthem. The American flag was already flying from the one flagpole at Balboa High, so the police escorted five Panamanian students just to the vicinity of that pole to allow them to perform their ceremony. Balboa students and a group of adult U.S. citizens had already gathered there and were singing the U.S. National Anthem. At this point the Panamanian students refused to have a ceremony unless they could have it on the spot occupied by the American students, who would not move. Then the Panamanians demanded that the flag of Panama be raised on the pole occupied by the American flag, but permission was refused.
The police formed a tight cordon around the five Panamanians, keeping them separated from the Americans, and amid an exchange of insulting remarks in Spanish between the two groups, they moved the Panamanians away, using a minimum of force. The students resisted violently, however, at times falling to the ground, only to be picked up and moved back by the police. At no time were Americans and Panamanians in physical contact.
If the Panamanian flag was torn, it could only have happened during the struggle between Canal Zone police and students. Captain Gaddis
February 14, 1964
25
Wall, District Police Commander and in command at the scene, emphatically asserts that neither the police nor the American students tore or ripped the flag. Encounters between the group of 200 Panamanians and the Americans were avoided by restraining Panamanians across the street from the school.
After refusing transportation by three large buses back to Panama City, the students left on foot, damaging property along the way. No arrests were made, however, in order to get them out of the Zone as quickly as possible.
Given the unrest in Panama, and the subsequent distortion of the events of the afternoon by Panama’s mass media, these incidents were sufficient to provide the spark of ignition that resulted in riotous destruction and loss of lives.
Agitators and mass communication media throughout Panama aroused the people with stories of American students capturing and desecrating the Panamanian flag, of serious fighting between American and Panamanian students, of violence by Canal Zone police. Large crowds began to form and grow rapidly in Panama City, and by 7:30 p.m. had grown to a mob estimated at 2,000.
Meanwhile, virtually the entire Canal Zone police force of about 85 men had been deployed along the Zone border. It soon became apparent, however, that the police could not hold the mob. Tear gas was used initially, and finally at 8:20 p.m. the first shots were fired by Canal Zone police. At this time the mob was moving in the direction of a residential area in Ancon, and the police were authorized to open fire with revolvers and shotguns loaded with birdshot, firing ovei' the heads of the mob and on the ground to their front. The Panamanians, however, were unable to determine whether the shots were fired at them or over their heads, for the policemen were barricaded behind overturned railroad dollies. Thus, as the weapons were fired, many Panamanians dropped to the ground and gave way. Others, seeing their fellows fall, thought they had been shot, and rumors quickly spread that the Canal Zone police were firing directly into the mob, that Panamanians were being massacred. This, of course, angered and stirred the people to greater violence.
At 7:59 p.m. General Andrew P. O’Meara, Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command, had officially assumed command of the Zone. Within 40 minutes after the first shots were fired by Canal Zone police, U.S. Army
personnel began to arrive and take command. Twenty minutes later, after a quick estimate of the situation, Brig. General Mabry directed that no further firing be done unless an attack was made.
The Canal Zone police continued to furnish support to the military until 3:00 a.m., January 10, when they were removed from the border to resume Zonal police patrols. At no time did Zone police enter the Republic of Panama. Captain Wall, moreover, has repeatedly emphasized that his men never deliberately shot anyone.
The Atlantic side of the Isthmus, by contrast, was rather quiet until shortly after 9:00 p.m., when a group of about 20 Panamanians in the city of Colon began moving toward the Canal Zone border. In less than half an hour the group had grown to about 1,500 men, women, and children. As the mob continued to grow in size and violence, three companies
Balboa High School
of U.S. Infantry were called out and stationed along the border. They were not at first issued ammunition, however, and as they stood in formation with fixed bayonets and tear gas, three soldiers were killed by sniper fire, and two others were injured. Later a few were issued .22 caliber rifles and told they could return sniper fire only. The damage wrought by snipers, Molotov cocktails, and mob attacks was severe.
The violence continued for about three days, but was most intense on Thursday night, January 9. The Spillway reports that during the riotous days, “No Americans were involved except as victims in the burning, looting, and other violence in Panama. No Canal Zone police or U.S. troops entered the Republic of Panama. Canal Zone residents remained at their residences and did not participate in or provoke any violence.”
Americans and Panamanians alike suffered heavy casualties; most, how
ever, were among the Panamanians, many of whom seemed victims of their own rioting. According to early reports, five Panamanians were trapped and killed when the Pan American building in Panama City was set afire, and at least two others had died from Molotov cocktails (crude grenades that may explode at any time; they are made of bottles filled with gasoline and fitted with a saturated rag, and are ignited as they are thrown). Other Panamanians may have been killed or injured by richochets from American weapons. There have been reports, too, that Panamanians were shot from behind, perhaps by pro-Castro agents.
If Panama’s small but very well-organized Communist machine participated in the situation, it simply took advantage of conditions that were already favorable to its terroristic tactics. It is interesting to note that student policy at the Institute Nacional, the Panamanian school whose students marched to Balboa High School, is dictated by the Student’s Union of the University of Panama, a Communist-dominated organization. It would be foolish, though, to dismiss the whole affair as a Communist plot. If conditions were better little support for Communists would come from the Panamanian people.
Roberto F. Chiari, the President of Panama, used the situation, hoping to extract diplomatic concessions from the United States, but ended by breaking diplomatic relations. He has promised, moreover, that diplomatic relations will not be resumed until the U.S. promises to renegotiate the Panama Canal treaty. The U.S., on the other hand, has promised Panama a “full review and reconsideration” when diplomatic relations are restored, but will not commit itself in advance to a revised treaty; this is not to say, however, that treaty changes would not result from the discussions. Chiari, for political reasons, cannot deviate from his firm position. Panama’s elections come • on May 10, and Chiari, by law, cannot succeed himself; but for him to yield at all to the United States would mean certain defeat for his party’s candidate. The leading opposition candidate is Arnulfo Arias, an extreme nationalist who has twice before been President of Panama.
According to the facts as we have seen them, Panama’s charges against the U.S. of “armed aggression” and “unprovoked attacks” seem preposterous. They seem to have been made by the Chiari Administration in desperate hopes of forcing the issue.
(Continued on page 36)
26
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Swimming: Success Despite Problems
In the six years of its existence
Notre Dame swimming has not only had to come into its own at the University, but it has had to keep apace of one of the fastest growing sports in the nation. Each year better trained, more experienced swimmers knock off one national record after another; each year universities offer more and more scholarships to attract top high school prospects; and each year intercollegiate competition becomes keener.
Coach Dennis Stark explains the situation at Notre Dame this way: “Last year’s times would have been good enough to post at least a 10-2 record the previous season, but last year they were only good enough for a 6-6 season against the same teams. Yet we are definitely getting stronger by the season. Some men who were starting for us three years ago could not even make the traveling squad today.”
As Coach Stark’s team faces this problem of increased competition, it finds itself thwarted by all the obstacles that loom before a newly established varsity team. Without the advantage of the athletic scholarships available to most of its opponents, Notre Dame has lost high school swimmers who have proven outstanding in collegiate competition. The team can boast high school and AAU All-Americans Rocke Garcia and Ted Egan, but many members of the team come from Catholic high schools which did not have swimming teams.
Because the Rockne Memorial is dedicated to the nonvarsity athlete, the team finds itself greatly restricted in its use of the pool. The pool is now available for team practice for only hours (immediately preceding and during the supper hour) in an era when 2^ hours of practice daily is a minimal requirement for any high caliber team.
Considering these difficulties, the swimming team has fared well, and has not had a losing season since its inception. The how and the why of Notre Dame’s swimming success is the story of effort and sacrifice by
February 14, 1964
every member of the team. It is the story of those who work in the pool individually every morning to supplement the short practice sessions; it is the story of a team which set up for itself a schedule of isometric contraction workouts. It is the story of one of the closest knit and most spirited varsity teams.
Heading this year’s team is Chuck Blanchard, the soft spoken captain and holder of five varsity records. In practices Blanchard, one of those who did not swim for a high school team, has been for his teammates an example of all-out effort: every morning finds him in the Rockne pool for an hour of intensive work, and he puts in considerable extra time on the isometric contraction bar. Under Blanchard this year the team has made the most of the short practices and of extra individual work.
The current season has been marked by topflight if sometimes losing performances, and by great team efforts against strong opponents. The Irish swimmers finished second to Northwestern in the Notre Dame Invitational Relays, and opened dual competition with a 54-41 win over Ohio U. Against Big Ten powers Wisconsin and Northwestern, Notre Dame lost by close scores of 56-47 and 57-38. Northwestern’s victory came on a photo-finish win in the final freestyle relay and another win in the 50-yard freestyle, in both of
which the Irish were suffering from the loss of injured Ted Egan.
Convincing wins against Western Ontario (51-44) and Wayne State (76-18, the biggest margin in Notre Dame swimming history) put the Irish back in the win column as they prepared to face Western Michigan, undefeated in its last 23 dual meets. Of the 58-37 loss at Western, Blanchard says: “I’ve never been prouder of the team. Everyone gave his best in a losing effort against a very strong opponent; everyone lowered his times. It was the best we’ve ever swum.”
He himself set a varsity record of 1:54.7 in the 200-yard freestyle, the relay team (with Ted Egan swimming in his first meet of the season) set a new record of 3:31.0, and Tim Kristi turned in a 200-yard butterfly time of 2:15.6 — an unrecognized record since he did not win the event.
During the first half of the season Notre Dame swimmers have rewritten five varsity records and five pool records in ten events: Blanchard has broken varsity records in the 100-yard and 200-yard freestyle and in the 200-yard individual medley; Rory Culhane has taken the 500-yard freestyle record; and the team of Drucker, Egan, Blum, and Blanchard captured the 400-yard freestyle relay record.
Through personal dedication the swimming team has come into its own in a fast growing sport despite some rather serious obstacles. In plans for the new fieldhouse, space has been set aside for a new pool — a pool that would give the swimming team a chance for practices of necessary length and scope. At present it is questionable whether the pool will be installed at the time of the building’s construction or at some still undetermined time in the future. If swimming is ever to take its rightful place among Notre Dame’s varsity sports, the new pool is a necessity — right now.
—Tom Bettag
Track
Paradox
The Irish lived up to preseason expectations in a triangular meet with Indiana and Purdue, but showed a dramatic reversal of form in the MSU Relays.
As a team sport, track and field is almost unique. Composed of specialists who compete individually, in disparate events and at dififerent times, the track team is hardly a team at all. And for this very reason, it is much easier to evaluate the performance of a track team than of a football or basketball team: the factors of team unity and interdependence are far less significant than in most team sports — a great tackle can cover for the mistakes of a poor guard, but the runner can rely only on himself. The track team, then, is essentially an aggregation of individuals.
Consequently, the strengths and weaknesses of a track team are simply its good and bad individual performers, and from year to year the events in which team strength lies — the “balance of power” — changes. One year it may be the sprints and another the field events; this year at Notre Dame it appeared to be the middle distance events in general and hurdler Pete Whitehouse in particular.
The solid victory of the Irish middle distance runners on January 31 against Indiana and Purdue, and Whitehouse’s sweep of the hurdle events in the same meet, confirmed preseason expectations. Notre Dame won the meet easily, scoring 55 points to 39 for Indiana and 35 for Purdue, and took first, second and fourth in the mile, first and third in the two-mile, first in the quarter mile, and second in the half. Whitehouse broke records in winning both high and low hurdles.
Bill Clark won the mile in 4:10.7, setting a meet record and making an excellent start toward a successful indoor season. Ed Dean and Larry Dirn-berger finished second and fourth.
Frank Carver, in quest of his personal mark of 9:11, won the two-mile easily in 9:14.8 to set another meet record. Sophomore Mike Coffey was third.
In the 440-yard dash — and it can only be called a dash when run by Bill Boyle — the finish was predictable and the time was a routine (for Boyle) 48.7. This, incidentally, is the equivalent of running four and a fraction eleven-second-flat hundreds indoors, around four curves. The time set new Fieldhouse and Notre Dame indoor records.
The same evening in New York, Wendell Motley of Trinidad and Yale University broke the world, indoor record with a 48-second-flat quarter; the two met last night (February 13) in the 500-yard run of the New York Athletic Club Games at Madison Square Garden.
Converted two-miler Rich Fennelly
ran an excellent race in his first attempt at the half mile, winning his heat in 1:55.0 but losing on time to Art Angotti of Indiana, who won the other heat in 1:54.5.
Captain Pete Whitehouse was at his best. He won the 60-yard high hurdles in 7.4 to tie Notre Dame indoor and Fieldhouse records, and subsequently won the lows in 6.9 to break the meet record and tie another Notre Dame indoor mark. He also took third in the high jump, for a total of 11 points — or one fifth of his team’s total.
Jerry O’Connor also placed in two events, taking a second in the low hurdles and a third in the broad jump.
Dave McNamee won the pole vault with a jump of 14-1, and narrowly ; missed on his first attempt at 14-8.	|
Ed Kelly and Jim Wruck finished	)
right behind McNamee in a surpris- j ing display of pole-vault strength.	|
John Martin, Notre Dame’s prom-	j
ising sophomore sprinter, finished	|
fourth in the 60-yard dash, won by i Nate Adams in a record-breaking 6.1.	;
Shotputter-less since the graduation ! last June of Carl Ludecke, Notre Dame was forced to concede this event.	j
The following weekend (February	’
8) Notre Dame competed, though	:
without much success, in the Michigan	i
State Relays at East Lansing. If the < Purdue-Indiana triangular meet con-	i
firmed preseason expectations, the Re-	j
lays negated them. With the notable • exceptions of Boyle, Carver (see cut),	;
and Ed Dean, performances were far	i
below par.	J
In the three major relay events	*
Notre Dame finished third, sixth, and not at all. Boyle ran two 48.5 quarters on the opening legs of both the sprint medley relay, in which the team failed to place, and the distance medley re- ' lay (quarter-mile, half-mile, three- | quarter mile, and mile legs), in which ■ the Irish finished third. Ed Dean ran ■ a fine three-quarter mile in this event. <
In the open or individual events, Notre Dame gained only one place: Frank Carver lapped the field and trounced his nearest competitor by nearly 70 yards in winning the open j two mile. However, the Irish failed | to place in the high jump or broad J. jump, in the pole vault, in the 300, I 600 or 1000, in the mile, and in the i high and low hurdles.	j
Up to this point, then, the Notre	j
Dame track team has been a paradox,	!
seemingly proving and negating its j strengths in consecutive meets. This j afternoon’s meet with Michigan and = Indiana may resolve this paradox, | if the Irish reassert their mastery of Midwestern middle distance running.
—John Whelan
28
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
SCORES
Basketball
Notre Dame 95, Michigan State 80
Purdue 112, Notre Dame 103
Notre Dame 72, Butler 64
DePaul 90, Notre Dame 75
Detroit 100, Notre Dame 89
-	Wrestling
Purdue 22, Notre Dame 5
Bowling Green 27, Notre Dame 5
Swimming
Northwestern 57, Notre Dame 38
Notre Dame 51, Western Ontario 44
Notre Dame 76, Wayne State 18
Western Michigan 59, Notre Dame 37
Notre Dame 53, Bowling Green 42
Track
Notre Dame 55, Indiana 39, Purdue 35
Fencing
Notre Dame 21, Indiana Tech 6
Notre Dame 19, Iowa 8
Notre Dame 22, Indiana 5
Air Force 16, Notre Dame 11
Hockey
Pepsi-Komets 10, Notre Dame 1
Illinois 9, Notre Dame 1
Northwestern 4, Notre Dame 0
SCHEDULE
Basketball
Feb. 15, St. Louis at Notre Dame
Feb. 17, St. John’s (NY) at Notre Dame
Feb. 19, Butler at Notre Dame
Wrestling
Feb. 14-15, Wheaton Invitational Tournament at Wheaton, Ill.
Feb. 19, Cincinnati at Notre Dame
Swimming
Feb. 20, Ball State at Muncie, Ind.
Track
Feb. 14, Michigan at Ann Arbor, Mich.
Fencing
Feb. 14, Wayne State and Iowa at Detroit
Feb. 15, Chicago U and Detroit at Detroit
Hockey
Feb. 14, Michigan State freshmen at East Lansing
Voice in the Crowd
<< A t a time when the world is filled with indecision,” said retiring captain Bob Lehmann, “Ara Parseghian is a man who knows exactly what he wants — winning football at Notre Dame.” And 1964 captain Jim Carroll added, “We’ve got some good players coming back. But most important, we’ve got a hell of a motivating factor — and he’s sitting right here on my left, our new head coach, Ara Parseghian.”
The enthusiasm of captains Lehmann and Carroll for Notre Dame’s new coach typified that of — and take note, you alumni who think that the Notre Dame Spirit is dead and that the modern-day student body is following the corpse straight to hell — the two thousand students who braved the freezing night to crowd around Sorin Hall’s porch and welcome Parseghian at Notre Dame’s first February football rally.
The students came partly out of curiosity, wondering what this Parseghian must be like, but they also came — as Parseghian himself said — “not to welcome Ara Parseghian, but to welcome Notre Dame’s new football coach.” They left infused with Parseghian’s own special brand of confidence and enthusiasm; the way the man talks, he must surely be some mystical hybrid of the Pied Piper and the Armenian Messiah of Notre Dame Football.
He had a message: “Like Jim Carroll, I don’t believe in making predictions, but I promise you that Notre Dame will have a team that is well disciplined, well conditioned, fundamentally sound, and which will give you one hundred and ten per cent effort in all 60 minutes of all ten games of the 1964 season. And I don’t propose to prophesy how many, but ive will win games.”
It was not so much that he said the words, but the way in which he said them; the words themselves sound familiar, but seldom in recent seasons have they been -matched by deeds. The Notre Dame teams I have watched during the past four years have sometimes given an outstanding effort, have sometimes been fundamentally sound, have sometimes been well conditioned, have seldom been well disciplined, but have never been all of these at once. Yet when Parseghian promises these qualities for his 1964 team, the words ring true; one can hardly help believe that his promises will be fulfilled, • so confident and aggressive and dedicated does he appear.
And even more encouraging, the actions of his First Thirty Days give every indication that he is a man who knows what he is about. He has, first, laid down the disciplinary law to the players, and of this he says: “I’ll never begrudge a boy an innocent mistake, but I will not tolerate repetitive [disciplinary] mistakes or premeditated incidents.” He has also made it clear to the players that the man who misses practice — or who fails to work in practice — just will not play.
Second, he has instituted a vigorous program of physical conditioning; he is almost a fanatic on the subject, and simply will not stand for such maladies as overweight. Third, he is evaluating his material, attempting to judge from each player’s size, speed, and quickness what jobs he can do well. Fourth, he plans to include a variety of backfield actions and play series in the offense during spring drills, and then to see which offensive patterns the available players can execute best. And finally, he has taken an aggressive tack in recruiting, where he has had to atone for the sins of the past decade. Efficient organization has solved most of the problems, and he feels, that progress is satisfactory.
The Notre Dame Spirit is certainly not dead, but because it is based on a winning tradition, it has been at least numbed by the losses of the recent past. Few alumni realize what it is like to suffer a losing season, let alone four nonwinning seasons in a row; and as Parseghian said, “The easiest thing in the world is to go along with a winning organization.”
Considering the circumstances, in fact, I believe that Notre Dame students have been remarkably loyal, and that all the Notre Dame Spirit needs is the shot in the arm that can be provided by Ara Parseghian’s enthusiasm — and by a winning season in 1964.
— Terry Wolkerstorfer
February 14, 1964
29
Fencing: Dedicatinn plus the drama of combat
In the entire world of sports, there is no more dramatic way in which one man may master another than by defeating him in a personal, hand-to-hand confrontation. Fencing is just such a personal combat and, like boxing, it requires the mastery through repetition of numerous skills and techniques.
The art of swordmanship and that of boxing have much in common. The skills of fencing — position, maneuvers, and the proper training of legs, eyes, and, above all, the hand — develop with time, as do the skills of boxing.
As in boxing, the combatant may feint with foot, head, or hand, and the fencer — quite like the fighter — may lead or lay back, waiting for the opportunity to counter. And, obviously, the purpose of both sports is to hit without being hit in return.
But there are also distinct differences. In modern competitive fencing (unlike the dueling of old, which was thoroughly lethal) there is considerably less contact than in boxing, and the fencer is protected by canvas jacket, wire mask, and glove. But modern fencing does stress, much more so than boxing, the mental and psychological mastery of an opponent, and a crafty swordsman will go to great pains to foster a feeling of false security in his opponent’s mind.
And, unlike boxers, fencers have a choice of weaponry: there are three international weapons. The foil, a weapon with a light, flexible, foursided blade, is designed to score by thrust, and its target is only the torso; the sabre is designed for both cutting and thrusting, and head, arms, and trunk are all vulnerable targets; the epee has a triangular blade and
was formerly used to disable an opponent quickly — and because the whole body is its legal target, it is probably the most fascinating bout to watch.
But as in boxing or any other sport, the object of fencing is to win, and win Notre Dame’s fencers have. While other Irish teams have been erratic, the fencing team has been a consistent winner; in the past nine seasons, Notre Dame’s duelers have carved out an honorable 127-25 record.
Primarily responsible for this success is Walter Langford, a Spanish professor who coached the teams of 1951-61. During this period, Notre Dame swordsmen registered 106 wins against only 15 losses, giving them an .876 percentage — higher than any other varsity team of the same era.
After a two-year leave of absence, spent directing the Peace Corps project in Chile, Langford is back to help his successor — Mike DeCicco of the mechanical engineering department — strengthen the winning tradition.
Last year’s squad (14-2) rebounded from a “semi-disasterous” 7-8 season in 1962. This team, DeCicco believes, could be his best.
“There is no question that we have a very representative squad this year,” he says. “If the team is willing to sacrifice, I feel we can do as well as last season’s team, and possibly better. The Air Force Academy was probably the toughest team we’ll face this year, and we lost only 16-11.” The Irish have already cut down Indiana Tech, Indiana, and Iowa, and have suffered the lone loss to Air Force.
Junior Bill Ferrence and senior Will Kennedy have been particularly impressive this season. Ferrence, who competed hardly at all last year, has won three matches in the foil, and rugby player Kennedy is leading the team with a 7-1 record.
Co-captain Jack Joyce, Ferrence, Joe and Mike McQuade, and Jack Couch are top men in the foil; Co-captain Sam Crimone, Kennedy, Mike Dwyer, and sophomore John Geary are the leading sabremen; and Dick Marks (ninth in the NCAA’s last year), Steve Dreher, Paul Jock, and Tom Buhl are the primary competitors in the epee.
Fencing has become a symbol of team spirit and dedication, an example all of Notre Dame’s varsity teams would do well to emulate; as a sign in the fencing room reads, “The difference between mediocrity and greatness is a little extra effort.” This is appropriate enough, for Notre Dame fencers have mastered many an opponent in hand-to-hand combat — by just a little extra effort. -
—Rex Lardner
The Scholastic
30
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in mechanical, aeronautical, chemical ELECTRICAL, NUCLEAR, and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING engineering mechanics applied mathematics PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 19
Appointments should be made m advance through your College Placement Office
Pratt &	..
Whitney Aircraft	°
| An Equal Opportunity Employ er ....................................................................................
February 14, 1964
31
‘The Sweet Life’
(Continued from page 22) can only wave and return to his friends and the rotting carcass on the beach. The ending is shattering, unforgettable: where (critics wondered) could Fellini go after this?
Showered with production offers, Fellini didn’t know himself, and out of his indecision would come 8%. Meanwhile he made a segment of producer Carlo Ponti’s Boccaccio 310 in which he attacked the censors with a “super-Ekberg.” Although this exercise (The Temptation of Dr. Antonio) was not successful in itself, it did give Fellini experience in the use of color and of caricatures, and in 8% the influence of his 50-foot temptation can be detected in La Sarag-hina, Claudia Cardinale’s movie star,
and Sandra Milo’s mistress.
8% and La Dolce Vita, in many ways, were inevitable films for a director like Fellini. He isn’t happy when he isn’t making movies because the cinema is the only medium in which he can adequately express himself (Newsweek described his total involvement as mystical). Fellini has a compulsion to tell stories, even when he can only acknowledge the incomprehensible nature or degradation of the world he lives in.
Fellini has been criticized for the negative nature of La Dolce Vita, and in 8% he (among other things) answered them with Guido’s last act acceptance of the past and the world. Guido can’t understand them, but as a sane man he can’t reject or ignore them either. Like Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni, he can’t
give positive answers or solutions to the problems he raises. Fellini raises these dilemmas because he has no answers.
In the last analysis Fellini, like Cabiria, Paola, and Guido, can only affirm his faith in life and its mystery. His next film is tentatively titled Giulietta Degli Spiriti, and it will be about his wife, Giulietta Masina. Photographed in color and fantasy it will lead us deeper still into the labyrinth of an artist making his apologia pro vita.
TEN BEST FILMS OF 1963
1-	8% — Federico Fellini
2.	Hud — Martin Ritt
3.	The Trial — Orson Welles
4.	The Leopard — Luchino
Visconti
I ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS • PHYSICISTS I
Norden will be on campus...
February 25 (Tuesday)
Graduating Electrical Engineers and Physicists are invited to discuss current openings in research, design, development and manufacturing in areas such as:
Fire Control Systems Radar Systems Data Processing Equipment Inertial Guidance Systems Television Systems Aircraft Instrumentation Navigation Systems Precision Components Solid State Devices
U. S. Citizenship Required. Norden’s location in Norwalk, Connecticut is easily accessible to the entire New York metropolitan area. For convenient appointment, please make arrangements in advance through your Placement Office.
Norden
U
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORP. A
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Positions with Potential
ENGINEERS * CHEMISTS * PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil
Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical
Metallurgical
America’s leading manufacturer of carbon and graphite products offers positions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide variety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aerospace, aluminum, automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, nuclear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manufacturers.
Positions are available at 12 plants and laboratories located in Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Tennessee and also in our Marketing organization which covers the 50 states from seven key cities.
Interesting, rewarding careers are offered in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering, marketing, technical sales and technical service.
A representative will be on campus:
February 20
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION
CARBON PRODUCTS DIVISION
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
UNION CARBIDE
32
The Scholastic
5.	The Condemned of Altona — Vittorio DeSica
6.	Charade — Stanley Donen
7.	Love With The Proper Strange)' — Robert Mulligan
8.	Burn Witch, Burn — Sidney Hayers
9.	The Victors — Carl Foreman
10.	America, America — Elia Kazan
Best Director — Federico Fellini (8%)
Best Actor — Marcello Mastroianni
(8%)
Best Actress — Patricia Neal (Hud)
Best Supporting Actor — Hugh Griffith (Tom Jones)
Best Supporting Actress — Jeanne Moreau (The Victors)
Best Original Screenplay — 8%;
Adaption — Burn Witch, Burn
Best Color Photography — Charade; Black & White — The Trial
Best Musical Score — Nino Rota for 8% and The Leopard
Best Musical Theme — Henry Mancini for Charade
Best Worst Films of the Year: Cleopatra, All The Way Home, The Cardinal
Most Welcome Animal:
Cleopatra's Asp
The Trial — To be shown this Saturday and Sunday in the Engineering Auditorium at 50c a person and 75c a couple with program notes provided. Orson Welles’ newest (1963) film is a nightmare vision of Franz Kafka’s allegory of Joseph K, a man condemned by a nameless authority for an unknown crime. Anthony Perkins leads a cast including Akim Tamiroff, Jeanne Moreau, Elsa Martinelli, Romy Schneider, and Welles himself (as the Advocate) in last year’s most harrowing film. Review next issue.
Tom Jones — Underdeveloped by its director and overblown by the critics, this chaotic accumulation of beautifully photographed and wonderfully acted scenes is a soaring dud.
The Prize — Paul Newman, defenestrated (poor) and defenestra tor (brilliant), in a ripping good thriller aided, abetted, and assaulted by Edward G. Robinson, Diane Baker, Elke Sommer, Sacha Pitoeff, and the Soviets. Directed by Mark Robson.
The Cardinal — Cardinal Cushing is reported to have said that this film has something of value for everyone. Well ... I liked the Nazis and a suicide.
Love With The Proper Stranger — Natalie Wood and Steve McQueen play an old story straight, with tenderness, skill, and gravity only when necessary. Resting on their performances, and Arnold Schulman’s excellent dialogue, director Robert Mulligan has been able to successfully maintain the excellence he displayed in the first part of To Kill A Mockingbird, and with it he will get at least an Academy Award nomination. So, for that matter, will Schulman, McQueen, Miss Wood, and supporting actor Herschel Bernardi.
Lord of the Flies — Golding’s novel drew its power and impact from its symbolism and inevitability. Peter Brook’s movie lacks both (at least to the extent exhibited in the book) because there wasn’t enough time to develop either. Piggy’s glasses are Piggy’s glasses and the dissension among the boys is arbitrary and too sudden to appear elemental.
Juniors, Seniors ...
Career Opportunities In All Phases Of Marketing
• Advertising
•	Sales Management • Merchandising
•	Sales Promotion • Market Research . '
Join Vick Chemical Company’s Programs for Career Development this summer. Schedule a campus interview with the company representatives now.
Seniors... Permanent employment. Gain extensive experience in all 5 phases of marketing.
Juniors... Summer employment. Get a head start on your career before graduation. Gain valuable sales and marketing experience.
Both programs provide car, good salary and pay all expenses seven days a week.
Contact your Placement Director for full details.
Interviews on February 26
Vick Chemical Company
Manufacturers ofVicks®VapoRub®,Cough Syrup,Cough Drops, Nasal Preparations, Cold Tablets, Lavoris®and Clearasil®.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Nationwide Survey: HOW
IMMORAL
ARE COLLEGE ATHLETICS?
March SPORT presents a shocking documentary on college sports. Don't mi?s "How Immoral Are College Athletics?", an exclusive and startling report based on months of touring the nation’s colleges and universities ... A report that is the most important ever published bv SPORT!	'
In the same issue:
JFK’s LEGACY
TO SPORTS
CASSIUS CLAY: - THE MAN,
THE CHALLENGE
These are only a few of the many articles in SPORT, the magazine that keeps you apace of all events on the college and pro sports scene. You’ll enjoy expert coverage, sharp analysis, indepth profiles and action-packed photos... Read
March
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded!
NOW ON SALE!
February 14, 1964
33
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED
“fast service”
DR. M. MITTERMAYER
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST.
South Bend, Indiana
233-2409
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
21 2 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
Aerodynamics Combustion
Compressible Flow Control Dynamics Digital Computation Analog Computation EDP Systems/Procedures Electronics
Electron Optics Fluid Dynamics
Heat Transfer Hydraulics Instrumentation
Internal Aerodynamics Kinematics
Magnetic Circuitry Mechanical Metallurgy Mechanics Metallurgy Physical Chemistry
Physics
Quality Control Reliability Servomechanisms Statistical Analysis Structures Systems Analysis Thermodynamics Thermoelectricity Tool Engineering Transistor Circuitry Vehicular Dynamics
Vibration
Hamilton	United
DIVISION OF
Standard	Aircraft
On Campus for Interviews
February 18 and 19
OPENINGS FOR BS, MS ENGINEERS and SCIENTISTS
•	Mechanical
•	Aeronautical
•	Engineering Physics
•	Applied Mechanics
•	Industrial Engineering
•	Electrical
•	Metallurgical
•	Engineering Mechanics
•	Physics
AREAS OF APPLICATION
Space and Life Support Systems Engine and Afterburner Controls Air Induction Control Systems Advanced Lightweight Propellers Electron Beam Industrial Machines Ground Support Equipment Electronic Control Systems Overhaul and Repair Programs Bio Science Studies Industrial Valves
For interview see your placement officer, or write:
SUPERVISOR COLLEGE RELATIONS / PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT
Hamilton	United
DIVISION OF
Standard	Aircraft
WINDSOR LOCKS, CONNECTICUT An Equal Opportunity Employer
34
The Scholastic
‘Conjugal Love’
(Continued from page 19)
the inevitable connotation of natural law to which every Catholic is subject arises. I believe that Dr. D’Antonio and I will be in agreement if instead of the word “law” we substitute the word “impulse.” It is the meaning of this word which I meant to convey but by an admittedly poor choice of words I used “law” to mean an impulse so strong that it almost compels man to act in agreement with it. This important change in semantics should put me in accord with the words of Dr. D’Antonio, “I accept man as a rational creature who is in some sense free, that is, that his behavior is not determined by forces beyond his control. Rather, as a rational animal, he is able potentially at least to control his behavior, and that this control can
extend over virtually all aspects of human life.”
The last point which Dr. D’Antonio concerns himself with is my summing up of his closing remarks. In his matter I can perceive no conflict between what he actually said and the way I related it. I can only invite the reader to review the end of his letter where he compares my remarks with his actual words.
In conclusion, I also believe, as does Dr. D’Antonio, that this issue is a vital one. I apologize to Dr. D’Antonio, to the student body and to anyone whose moral indignation was aroused by my article, or to anyone for whom I clouded the issue rather than clarified it. Clarification is the important thing and I hope these remarks by Dr. D’Antonio and myself have contributed to an awareness of a problem which will be of vital concern to us in the future.
‘Tartuff e’
(Continued from page 11) habit of pronouncing words in baby-snookums style, like “Wuv” for “love” and “Pweeze” for “please”; an unnecessarily obvious gimmick, which the beautifully-pouting Miss Saxe doesn’t need. And of Michael Hartford as Orgon, no real criticism can be made. He is simply the funniest man in the play, in his mugging, in his behavior, and in his delivery. His sense of timing is flawless, and his ability to let other characters — Dorine, Tartuffe, or Mr. Loyal — get laughs for him is delightful.
The play, as a whole, is, I believe, the best single production I have seen by the University Players. They are to be congratulated on a very funny play, and on the kind of honestly selflimited skill which is such an admirable substitute for genius.
1. I’ve been riving a lot of thought o o	o
to die future—career-wise and goal-wise.
I’ve been pretty busy working on my hook shot
2. As recipients of a college . education, I feel it is incumbent upon us to work in areas which allow us to make a contribution to society.
Watch me dribble right around vou.
3. Material reward is important, too —so long as die job is one of profound significance.
I’m a terror off the boards.
4. What's more, die company I work for must be forward-looking and encourage initiative.
Notice the feadier touch on die ball.
5. How about you? What are your goals?
I’d like to score 30 against Tech.
6.1 mean after graduation, o
Oh, I’ve got a swell job uadi Equitable. They’ve got everything you’re looking for. And they’re a good team to work with.
See your Placement Officer for the date Equitable’s employment representative will be on campus. Or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 ©1964
‘Panama’
(Continued from page 26) Miguel Moreno, Panama’s delegate to the OAS has asked that the Rio Treaty be invoked, by which all nations of our hemisphere are committed to come to the aid of a member nation threatened by aggression.
Nevertheless, I can certainly sympathize with Panama’s desire for a new treaty; there is good reason for renegotiation of the 1903 Treaty, which professes to be in perpetuity. But as long as the Panama Canal is the only interoceanic canal in our hemisphere, the U.S. cannot make a treaty terminating its sovereignty in the Canal Zone. The very nature of the present Canal demands for its uninterrupted operation U.S. sovereignty in the Zone.	.
The Panama Canal can in no way be compared to the Suez, which is at sea level and thus more easily operated and protected. The Panama Canal, which raises and lowers transiting ships 85 feet, with its six sets of massive double locks, requires for its expeditious operation great precision, coordination and efficiency; security too is an important factor because of the important machinery of the locks. This accounts for the large number of American civilians working for the Canal organization in Panama, directing the operation and maintenance of the Canal, providing for its security and serving the. needs of the American community.
By far the great majority of workers in the Canal organization, however, are Panamanians, and expanded utilization of Panamanian citizens in the organization is carried out on an attritional basis. Particular emphasis is being placed on the utilization of these workers in higher skilled positions. Few distinctions exist any longer in employment practices. Americans and Panamanians doing the same work now receive the same base pay, but the U.S. citizens receive a 25% overseas differential, easily justified when considering the Americans’ education problem in having to send their sons and daughters so far to college, the expense of their trips back home to the mainland, and the inconvenience of having to return to the United States upon retirement, not having yet paid for a home there. The Panamanians, too, pay far lower income taxes.
Panama, except for the extremists, does not wish to assume control of the Canal, recognizing that it is not yet ready for such responsibility. But it would be like a greater share of the profits, a greater share in the operation of the Canal, and a revision
36
The Scholastic
of the sovereignty and perpetuity clauses in the treaty.
The present Canal is fast becoming outdated because of the radical change that has occurred in shipping since World War II, both in amount of traffic and size of ships. Many aircraft carriers, luxury liners and other commercial ships, particularly tankers and ore ships are too large for the locks, and the handling of supertankers and other large ships has increased the complexity of scheduling traffic. A number of short-range improvement projects has already been instituted, such as widening and deepening of certain sections of the Canal and installment of lighting to allow for night operation, but these are good for only another 10-15 years.
The capacity problem is itself reason enough to consider building another interoceanic canal. A sea-level canal would considerably lessen the transiting time from the eight hours it now takes, allowing many more ships to make the transit in less time. A sea-level canal, furthermore, would be less expensive to operate and would require not nearly so much security and skilled labor. A sea-level canal, then, would not require the large American colony, or American sovereignty for its expeditious and dependable operation.
Assured of such a canal, in Nicaragua, Colombia, or in Panama itself, the United States could conceivably negotiate with Panama a treaty which, while retaining U.S. sovereignty at the Panama Canal, would provide for Panamanian repossession of the Canal Zone at the completion of the new Canal. Perhaps then, with the assurance that the Canal will one day be theirs, the Panamanians could endure American occupation for a few more years, being cognizant of the vital responsibility the U.S. has to the 38 different nations whose ships depend upon the efficient and dependable operation of the Canal and to all those who are dependent upon the uninterrupted flow of world commerce.
The new canal must be a sea-level one, for another like the present Panama Canal would result in the same difficulties that have arisen in Panama, whether it be in Nicaragua, Colombia, or any other country. The treaty for the new canal, moreover, must provide for its joint operation by the United States — the only American republic able to bear the financial burden of a new canal — and the country in which it is located, or by all of the American republics together, providing sovereign rights to no single nation.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
February 24, 1964
ENGINEERING SCIENCES
ALL DEGREE LEVELS
•	ENGINEERING PHYSICS	•	ELECTRONICS
•	MATHEMATICS	•	MECHANICAL
•	STATISTICS	•	INDUSTRIAL
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
•	COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY
Hardware Design Software Research %
•	COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS Propagation Research Complex Design
Engineers, Mathematicians, and Physicists should contact their COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICER for an appointment with an NSA representative. No test required.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
WASHINGTON. D.C. area AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
February 14, 1964
37
Tom Boobier ...
The Last Word
'E'or two days last week, several * hundred students came on and off the Dean’s List like records on WSND’s top 40. Formerly, requirements for the list were that a student have a 3.25 average in the fall and spring semesters preceding the year he was on the list. Thus, a student with a cumulative honors average occasionally was not on the Dean’s List in the current year. Unexpectedly, however,
38
students with a cumulative average over 3.25 were informed on their grade bulletins that they were on the Dean’s List, regardless of their average for the preceding year. At the same time, students whose names had been on the list last semester, but whose cumulative averages were below 3.25, suddenly found themselves out in the cold world of required class attendance.
Since we had a personal interest in the controversy, we called our dean, and he informed us that he had not heard of the change in requirements for his list. He suggested that we call the Registrar of the University, Leo M. Corbaci.
Mr. Corbaci told us it was his understanding that the requirements for Dean’s List were the same this year as always, but that the academic council was planning to meet this semester to discuss a change in the requirements. He promised to look into the matter of the change, and the next day he returned our call. It seems that the computers had been programmed incorrectly, and that the second semester Dean’s Lists would in fact remain the same as first semester, except in cases where the dean specifically asked for removal of a student.
As for the academic council’s plans to consider changing Dean’s List requirements, we feel the reaction to the two-day “change” indicates the extreme student disapproval that would result from making the Dean’s List requirements contingent on a cumulative average. Such a change would tend to be too discouraging to those students who had done poorly in a particular semester or year, and who would consequently feel the impossibility of their ever making the Dean’s List. Since honors at graduation are now based on a cumulative average, there is still adequate recognition for the comparatively few who have maintained an honors average all four years.
A look at the lecture schedule for the week just past shows some careless and confused scheduling. On Thursday, February 13, for example, there were no less than ten separate lectures or seminars on campus, four of them scheduled for 8:00 or 8:15. While the appeal of some of the lectures was to special sections of the student body (such as Dr. Bostwick Ketchum’s talk on “Oceanography”), many of them were of interest to most of the students, and it seems a shame that students had to miss one lecture to attend another. The conflict undoubtedly also hurt attendance at some of the more specialized talks.

It would be beneficial for all concerned if the scheduling of lectures and seminars would be cleared through a central authority — like the student government’s academic commission or Fr. Soleta’s office — that would at the least inform departments of conflicts and possibly change the date or time of the lecture to avoid overlapping. It is neither courteous to visiting lecturers nor fair to the students to allow this week’s confusion to recur.
The only unpleasant part of registration was, obviously, trying to register for a theology course. At the sight of the line extending down the first-floor corridor of O’Shaughnessy, many students simply turned away and declared they would take two theology courses next semester. The situation was not entirely the theology department’s fault (see news story in Campus at a Glance). Still, the situation dramatically pointed the universal dissatisfaction of students with the poor quality of many theology courses and their desperate attempts to register for courses and teachers known to be worthwhile. (That the situation is known to faculty as well as students is indicated by the fact that the General Program reserved twenty-five cards of Theology 86 for its own students, who were still able to register for it long after other students were turned away at the theology department.)
The disparity between the Dunnes and Hegges and the teachers who spend class time explaining that Bermuda shorts are not to be worn in class or that “angels are delightful people to know,” is so apparent that no one can seriously pretend that one section of a course should carry the same credit as another. Notre Dame cannot expect to become a truly great Catholic university until all of its theology courses are raised above a high-school level.
Now-xt-can-be-told Dept. : WSND’s announcement that the Beatles would be at Notre Dame for Mardi Gras was actually a station hoax. The subsequent announcement that the Beatles’ manager had “cancelled the engagement” was an ingracious attempt to back out of the situation after Big Man on Station. Craig Simpson discovered the joke.
(The Beatle situation had nothing to do, however, with the campus police raid on WSND’s studios. The campus police, on discovering several girls at the station, were duly shocked, but were subsequently informed that girls had been permitted to enter O’Shaughnessy Hall since 1953.)
The Scholastic
A career for exceptional men
... Some notes about you, about us, and the advertising business
About you. If you are the man we seek, you have an insatiable curiosity about people and the world around you.
You’re alert and responsive to new ideas, new ways of doing things. You like to take on new problems ... you see them as opportunities.
You dig deep into the why of things. And the best answers you can come up with today are never good enough for you tomorrow.
You’re an individualist. Yet you thrive on team spirit.
You have conviction about freedom of choice, consistent with the rights of others.
You’re the kind of man who could be successful in business for himself, but you see the greater challenge implicit in today's major enterprises.
About US. The J. Walter Thompson Company was formed 100 years ago and has long been one of the world’s largest advertising firms. Its stock is owned by more than five hundred active staff members.
We help over 500 companies in the United States and abroad sell thousands of products and services to hundreds of millions of people. Last year alone, we were responsible for the advertising investment of close to a half-billion dollars.
There are 6,900 people working with Thompson around the world. Their backgrounds range far and wide. And so do their assignments, which include writing, art, broadcasting, market research, media buying, international business, marketing and merchandising, accounting, music, styling, the theatre, and the social sciences.
In our experience, superior individuals from every graduate and undergraduate educational discipline find successful careers in a major agency such as the Thompson Company. Staff members in our New York Office alone represent nearly three hundred colleges and universities here and abroad.
Your career with US. You may be surprised to learn that while an advertising company must have artistically creative people, it depends just as much on people who are imaginative and inventive in other ways.
Our business is selling. Communicating through the written and spoken word is hotu we sell. You must possess the ability to speak and write well so your ideas may be shared and understood.
We are looking for the kind of men who wish and are able to assume substantial responsibility early in their business lives. To such men we offer a remarkable chance to grow and develop —one seldom found in any firm.
Previous advertising experience is not required. Basically, our interest is in the nature of a person rather than in his specialized knowledge and abilities.
We offer you no standard starting salary, no cut-and-dried training program. Beginning salaries are individually considered and compare favorably to those of other national firms. We help you tailor your own development program, based on your interests, your abilities, your goals. Your program will differ from other men’s programs just as you differ from other men.
When you join us you will work side by side with experienced advertising men. Your growth will be based on your own initiative, your own development. There are no age or seniority requirements to limit the responsibility you can earn.
We encourage you to follow your curiosity into all phases of advertising, because we want you to become a well-rounded practitioner as rapidly as possible. Experienced advertising men are eager to coach you individually in your efforts to develop your capabilities. Additionally, you are free to delve into every nook and cranny of advertising through our annual series of professional seminars, workshops and classes-You learn from men who are experts in their fields.
About men who join US. A remarkable number of college men who have joined us in the past decade have remained with us and are enjoying varied, exciting careers.
Because of our emphasis on early growth, relatively young men commonly handle major responsibilities in many phases of our business—both in this country and abroad.
All initial assignments are in New York City or Chicago, but we have many other offices in the United States and throughout the world; and if you are interested, you may request a transfer later on.
If you wish to be a candidate, you must graduate in 196If and be able to join us by June of 1965. You majr obtain further information at the placement office. Please check there regarding the possibility of a personal interview. We shall be on campus February 24.
J. Walter Thompson Company
NewYork. Chicago. Detroit. SanFrancisco. Los Angeles. Hollywood.Washington. D. C.. Miami, Montreal. Toronto. Mexico City, San Juan, Buenos Aires. Montevideo. Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro. Porto Alegre, Recife. Belo Horizonte. Santiago (Chile). Lima, London. Paris. Antwerp. Amsterdam. Frankfurt. Milan. Vienna, Johannesburg, Cape Town. Durban. Port Elizabeth. Salisbury (Southern Rhodesia), Bombay, Calcutta, New Delhi, Madras, Karachi. Colombo (Ceylon), Sydney, Melbourne, Tokyo, Osaka, Manila.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
SCH-P
A lot revolves around GTE
Today, it takes the efforts of many people in many diverse fields and professions to build an active corporation such as GT&E.
Because, at GT&E, we’re involved heavilv in research, manufacturing and telephone operations.
For instance, we have telephone operating companies in areas of 32
states. And in manufacturing, our O’
subsidiaries produce a wide variety of products for business, industry and the consumer.
A diversified program such as this calls for the best administrators, operating personnel, scientists, engineers and production managers. And unity of purpose.
With so much revolving; around o
GT&E, it is small wonder that we have become one of America’s foremost corporations.
As a young and aggressive company with no limit to its growth, GT&E is an organization von mav wish to think of in the light of your own future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Telephone Operating Cos. • GT&E Laboratories • GT&E International • General Telephone Directory • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products