
BOLD LOOK SHIRTS *265 ,
“To Make New Friends and Keep Our Old Ones”
COLOURS: Blue, Wine, Peach, Lavender Grey, White, Green, Pink, Tan, Canary Yellow, Bamboo.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
.2
The Scholastic
An Explanation
Editor:
It is one of the fine traditions at Notre Dame to stay seated at football games until the Victory March is sung.
At the Tulane game there was a drift of “Roman collars” down the aisles during the fourth quarter. Some of the students gave voice to their disapproval. They did the right thing.
Still some of those departing were priests who had week-end appointments to churches in nearby cities. I, for one, had to go a distance of 70 miles and be' in the Confessional at 7:00, Eastern Time. I just made it, thanks to a wild driver.
I thought loyal students were entitled to this explanation and apology.
Rev. Name Withheld
Mistaken Identity
Editor:
I bet my present roommate knows my name is not Vernon.
Verne Kelley
159 Dillon
Giving odds?—Editor
PHILOSOPHY AWARD
The Department of Philosophy has announced that the Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy will be given (his year to the senior in the College of Arts and Letters who submits the best essay on a philosophic subject. The medal was not offered last year. R Details may be obtained from the head of the department.
The P L A C E to go for names you know
IT'S GILBERT'S
for
VAN HEUSEN
Alberts
813-817 S. Michigan St.
B Oct. 28, 1949
Bear up, Bub.. .
plenty of hugs with
VANACA Flannel sport shirts
And Van Hensen’s soft, smooth 100% wool Vanaca Flannels bear up under any treatment. A rainbow of colors and patterns come in models that include regular California Lo-No ...zipper...bib. ..and new Van Trix pullover with knitted collar, cuffs, waist. Famous Van Heusen sewmanship ... action-tailored. §6.95 and up
° Van Hensen* hj.
"the world s smartest ’	LO
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Fr. Norton Named Moderator
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., will act as moderator of the Indianapolis Club, Club President Harold Sullivan said at the meeting last week. Father Norton is Assistant Director of Studies here at the University and is a native of Indianapolis.
Also at the meeting plans for a midNovember club dinner were discussed. Other business concerned the bowling team and the annual Christmas dance. Dance Chairman Jim Welch said the affair this year will be held at the Indiana Roof in Indianapolis.
An invitation was extended to all students living within 75 miles of the capital city to join the Indianapolis Club.
Officers are: Harold Sullivan, president; Dick McNamara, vice-president; Frank Maley, secretary, and Jim Welch, treasurer.
Keystone Club Convenes
Another name has been added to the long list of campus geographical clubs. It is the Keystone Club of Notre Dame. This club was first organized by Bob Duddy and Steve Oracko who felt the need for an organization to represent
the central eastern section of Pennsylvania. The members have already conducted three meetings this semester’ at which time they succeeded in electing officers and drawing up a constitution. The club constitution has been ratified by the members and is now before the student council for approval.
The newly elected officers are Bob O’Connell, president; Steve Oracko, vice-president; Bill Longhi, secretarytreasurer; and Jim Clark, corresponding secretary. Since the club claims its membership from middle-eastern Pennsylvania, either Allentown or Reading will be the center of off-campus activities.
The club wishes to announce that all residents from the following counties are eligible for membership: Lehigh, Carbon, Lebanon, Berks, Schuykill, Montgomery, Northampton, York, Dauphin, and Lancaster.
LOST AND FOUND
The official Lost and Found Department for the University is located in the office of the Prefect of Discipline, Main Building. All lost articles should be turned in to this office so that they can be reclaimed by their owners.
Met Club Has Full Schedule !
The Metropolitan Club undertook plans last week for a full schedule of activities. More than 100 members attended the club’s second meeting and several impending plans were discussed.
President Bob Murray revealed plans for a cocktail party in New York City following the North Carolina game. Handling the details of this event is a -. committee that includes Jack O’Brien, -Bill Gorman, Jack Murray, and Jay Fox. Also in conjunction -with the North Carolina tussle was the club’s unanimous decision to present an award to Notre Dame’s outstanding player of the game. The presentation will be made at a special meeting on campus.
On another football weekend, that of the Southern Methodist game, the club will hold a Communion breakfast in one _v of the downtown hotels.
Plans for the club’s Christmas dance were related by Joe Moschella, chairman of the event. This year, the dance will be held at the “Starlight Roof” of the Waldorf-Astoria. The need for the cooperation of every club member was emphasized to help make the event a success.
After announcing the organization of bowling and touch football clubs, movies of the Tulane game were shown.
Berens one Jacket you can wear TBREE ways
MeGREGOR “TRIPLE-THREAT”
1.	Wear the liner as a cardigan leisure coat.
2.	Wear the jacket unlined for mild weather.
3.	Wear the jacket with the pure wool liner zipped in for blustery weather.
27.50
. . . to take you through any kind of weather. The outer garment is wind and water repellent . . . the inner-jacket is 100% pure wool and can be worn as a casual coat. See the “Triple-Threat” tomorrow!
THIS WEEKS BROWSER WINNER:
JOHN LAMBERT — — 25 LYONS HALL
‘the week
by flack McGoldrick	«
Top of the Week
No Bearskin last Friday.
Quad Quiz
Do hall watchmen really wear old band uniforms? ... or does the band wear old watchmen’s uniforms? . . . what will Bob Stock say about last week’s Kentucky Club tobacco ad? . . . are the electric fans in the caf to cool _ the students or kill the flies? . . . has W the A.A. ordered 600 kigmies from Mammy Yokum, dressed as footballs? ... do any students cut their own hair? . . . does anybody ever buy a book? . . . who knows? . . . who cares?
All This for §1.20
Jim Kingsley of Alumni Hall came back from town the other night with the following little tasty announcement he found tacked onto a menu at Clark’s restaurant:
Joe Ftpzky, dining hall employee: “I understand the Juggler is selling like hot-cakes. Too bad it doesn’t sell like a magazine.”
Name Withheld, aero engineer: “What’s the Juggler?”
Jerry Frazel, law student: “I can remember when the Juggler was free.”
Johnny Dollar, commerce man: “I’m going to wait till next year. I hear they’re going to offer a 50-year subscription for 35 cents.”
Editor’s Note: This survey is limited in scope by the fact that McGoldrick and his friends read nothing but comic books. For University students more interested in Thomas Wolfe than Dick Tracy, the new Juggler shouldn’t be missed.
News and Views From Other U’s
Bowling Green, Ohio, Oct. 19 (AP)
— Approximately 200 students cut classes today in an effort to incite a strike against regulations at Bowling Green State University.
The objectors in the student body of 4,600 want, among other things: 3.2 beer on the campus, abolition of a rule prohibiting co-eds from riding in automobiles; “complete freedom of expression for the school newspaper; and a less tough attitude by campus police.”
(Things are tough all over, lads.)
Bottom of the Week
He’s back again in tonight’s Tribune.
15 PHOTOS $1°°
•for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2/> x
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL §1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROCOpy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
“INDIVIDUAL CHICKEN PIE . . . The plump, tender hens cluck with delight, the fresh green peas roll with glee, the Idaho potatoes wink their eyes, and the rich, creamy gravy ripples with rapture; all for the pleasure of being part of this super-flavored, deep-down satisfyin’ dish whose secret luscious yumminess is concealed under a crust that literally melts in your mouth.”
(Those hens and peas must put on quite a show. There’s no cover charge, either!)
Now Hear This
Last week’s Scholastic carried an ad that offered ND men an opportunity they can’t afford to pass up. The idea is, that for a mere 75c, you can subscribe to three issues of the 1949-50 Juggler, which will be out soon!
In an effort to check student reaction to this startling offer, the WEEK’S readership survey staff conducted a pulse-check on several well-known students :
“Sonny” Smith, Journalism major: “My pulse is kinda weak, and I don’t know what a break-over point is, but I say: ‘get in on the ground floor with this Juggler deal.’”
Willy Nilly, pre-basket weaving student: “Those book marks that come with the Juggler are useful, though.”
If You Can Walk, Well Teach You to Dance the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
•	Incomparable Low Rates
•	Private Studios and Main Ballroom
•	Friendly, Congenial Atmosphere •
•	Personally Trained Staff
FREE Trial Lesson
Stop in or Phone
3-8229
Northern Indianas Largest Studio
TUDIOS
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
Alice and George Davis
SPECIAL COURSE RATES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
Studio Hours: 10-10
Oct. 28, 1949
5
Entertainment
OCTOBER 28
COLFAX (through Nov. 2)—Judging from the tremendous success of White Heat (B), another crime trend is in the offing. Jimmy Cagney is back totin’ his trusty guns. This time his role has more dimensions to it than those of his past. You’ll need a tabulator to keep track of the dead left in his wake. Virginia Mayo, Edmond O’Brien and Margaret Wycherly lend fine support. It’s a grisly picture, but not without some entertainment values.
AVON (through Nov. 11)—Sam Goldwyn tries hard to bring the Hatfield-McCoy saga to the screen in Roseanna McCoy (B) but ends up with a muddle of seemingly sophisticated Dog Patchers. The well-known feud is often forgotten in favor of the love affair between young Jonse Hatfield and Roseanna McCoy. A whole raft of Hollywood’s dependable bit players give some authenticity to the film.
PALACE (through Oct. 29)—"Robert Nathan’s fantasy, Portrait of Jennie (A-2), is bungled in this presentation. Jennifer Jones stars as the girl who keeps returning at intervals, progressively older. Joseph Cotton is the artist who falls in love with her and who eventually loses her in a whopping Cape Cod hurricane.
GRANADA (through Nov. 3)—The second film of the Negro prejudice trend to come to South Bend is the excellent Lost Boundaries (A-2). It’s the story taken from the Reader's Digest of a colored doctor and his family who have passed for white in a small New Hampshire town. Mel Ferrer, Beatrice Pearson and a cast of relatively unknowns are all exceptionally fine. The film skirts the preaching platform and is engrossing fare that should find many fans. This Was a Woman is the co-feature.
STATE (through Oct. 29)—Les Miserables and Stanley and Livingstone are two well-worth seeing reissues.
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 2)—The technicolored production The Red Shoes (B) hits a high mark of perfection. A fine example of British movie-making at its best.
OCTOBER 29
JUNIOR PICNIC—Juniors and their dates will head for Potawatami Park at 2:30 for a bang-up picnic. Food, organized games and fun unlimited.
WASHINGTON HALL — Bill Williams and Barbara Hale star in Clay Pigeon (A-l), a mediocre thriller. .
OCTOBER 30 .	.
PALACE—Robert Mitchum with his blank expression stumbles through The Big Steal (A-2) with Jane Greer as his leading lady. The picture evolves in Mexico with one cops-and-robbers' chase sequence that’s a dillyl The Judge Steps Out (A-2) •with Alexander Knox and Ann Sothern is sure to win honors for being the worst picture of the year. Be sure and MISS IT!
NOVEMBER 1
WASHINGTON HALL (through Nov. 3)—The University Theater tees off its year with Lawrence Gross and Edward Childs Carpenter’s comedy Whistling in the Dark. With several veterans of last year’s productions in its cast, it should prove to be a well-produced starter. Some might remember it as a film starring Red Skelton a few years back.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
arvin
J EWELERS
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
BARBER SHOP
112 E. Washington Ave Under Max Adler Co.
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
SHUTTERBUGS
Sport scenes offer many action situations you can’t miss with our proper equipment and professional advice.
— Special ■
Order Your
PHOTOGRAPHIC
Christmas Cards Now
10 for $1.00 — 25 for $2.25
AULT CAMERA SHOP (Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 October 28. 1949 No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________Assistant News A. J. S CRIB A___________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY___________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Chicago! The city of big shoulders and big times. The land of the Tribune, Lake Michigan, Soldier Field, and the South Shore Railroad. The home of pro football’s Bears, Cardinals and Hornets, of hockey’s Blackhawks, basketball’s Stags and baseball’s White Sox and Cubs. The city of fine hotels, many theaters and fine restaurants, of art galleries and museums. Scholastic’s big feature this week is devoted to this Windy City, and the attractions it holds for ND students in search of good times and relaxation on weekends. Our cover shot shows the theater district looking westward from the corner of State down Randolph street as the Chicago rialto blazes with lights of theaters and hotels.—Photo courtesy of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry.
Oct. 28, 1949
From the Editor’s Desk..
’Life* Can Be Misleading
Last week Life magazine came to Notre Dame to shoot a picture of a big game weekend. They went to our pep rally and heard Father Barry^ say the Notre Dame spirit is “praying, working, thinking, fighting.” They heard our athletic director, Ed Krause, ask the crowded fieldhouse audience to remember the team at Mass in the morning. They saw the Fighting Irish receive Holy Communion en masse before the game. So in their story of the game they say our team “seems to consider victory a religious mission.” That “even without mixing religion and a mundane activity like sport, Notre Dame’s overwhelming superiority would have won.”
The Irish probably ivould have won anyway. The sheer offensive might displayed by Coach Leahy’s lads that day was powerful enough to dump any high-flying team from national prominence. But because the team went to Mass before the game, because students and friends of Notre Dame alike might have offered prayers for the team to win is certainly no indication that Notre Dame considers competition (or victory) a religious mission. By implying that, Life left a distasteful caste on what otherwise might have been a pretty good story.
Notre Dame’s football team, as well as some 25 million other Catholics in the United States, receive Holy Communion for the love of God. They receive Him into their hearts and souls with the deepest devotion and humility men can have. They receive Him in adoration and thanksgiving, and not because He might engineer another victory in a winning streak. The Fighting Irish themselves, accompanied by students and countless alumni all over the country might at the same time offer a prayer for a team win, a plea that the players in the game will suffer no injury on the field of battle. They do it of a love for Notre Dame, not because they are Catholics calling on God to intercede in an athletic contest. No one of Notre Dame’s players thinks it makes them even slightly immune to physical defeat. After the Mass is over, neither does the team think it has been to a religious rally and sent out on a minor crusade.
The Irish were up for the Tulane game. They were up probably higher than they had been at any time during the past two years. Larry Coutre might just as well have scampered for three touchdowns had he been absent from Mass that morning. But Life seemed almost to suggest that because he was at Mass and Communion that morning he was destined for a brilliant afternoon, as a leading cog in this “religious victory.”
This is, of course, misleading. Life apparently has misinterpreted the meaning of Mass, Holy Communion and prayers before a game. The Irish may pray for a successful game, that they may play their positions well and not be carried injured from the field. Then if victory comes, they are thankful, but they do not feel they are the chosen few, that God has singled them out for triumph.
As for Notre Dame’s mixing religion and sport, perhaps we do, but not in quite the sense Life meant it. A carryover from Catholic training, the virtue of temperance, keeps our players in top shape through long, hard months of training. Through the virtue of fortitude, every man among them gives his all in competition until the final gun has sounded.
7
$
i
SPECIAL SALE
e
Personalized Stationery
Ask to See Our Display
ONE DAY SERVICE
a
a
ZNotre Q^ame bookstore
8
The Scholastic
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 6	OCTOBER 28, 1949
LILIENTHAL TO SPEAK HERE
David E. Lilienthal, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, will address the students and faculty of Notre Dame this Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Mr. Lilienthal was at one time director and later chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, and is the author of the book, “TVA: Democracy on the March.” In 1945 he received the Progressive Farmers’ award for aid to the nation’s agriculture, and three years ago he was selected by the Catholic Committee of the South for a special award for work beneficent to the South.
'Whistling in the Dark' to Open Next Tuesday
Ringing up the curtain on the first of its plays for the current school year next Tuesday, Nov. 1, the University Theater will present its new comedy-melodrama, Whistling in the Dark, at a matinee performance in Washington Hall. This matinee, at 2:15 p.m., was called for because of the David Lilienthal appearance in Washington Hall that same evening. Three other performances will follow on the nights of Nov. 2, 3, and 4 at 8 p.m.
William J. Eisen, director of the University Theater, has announced that all students and faculty will be admitted free to any of the four performances, but that all seats will be reserved and tickets must be picked up beforehand. Student tickets will be available from the president of each residence hall, beginning today. Off-campus students may obtain their ducats in the basement of the Dining Hall from 11:30 to 1 p.m., beginning today, and continuing through Saturday and Monday. Faculty and members of the University staff may pick up their tickets at the information booth in the Main Building next Thursday and Friday.
Even though the cast has had but four weeks of practice, Professor Frank (Continued on Page 29)
Oct. 28, 1949
Council Names Thirteen Hall Presidents;
Designates Trojan Fray for Hall Decorations
By RAY DOHERTY
Winners in last week’s hall council elections were announced by the Student Council at its regular meeting Monday night in the Law Building. The 13 new presidents, who will head the nine-man hall councils, are: Bob Lally, Dillon; Tom Wolff, Alumni; Jim Gillis, Walsh; Tom Zingales, Howard; Tom Digan, Badin; John Williams, Sorin; Bill Madigan, Morrissey; Don Fager, Cavanaugh; Jack O’Connell, Zahm; Jim Reynolds, Lyons; Jerry Marshall, St. Edward’s; Tom Murphy, Breen-Phillips; and Jack Wise, Farley.
The hall councils will serve as arms of the Student Council Service Committee and will be responsible for organization and execution of activities
New hall presidents: (seated) W. Madigan, T. Wolff, T. Zingales and (standing) J. Williams, J. Reynolds, J. Gillis. Others were absent at time of photograph.
conducive to better hall efficiency and to the welfare of the residents. They will be empowered to hear the suggestions and complaints of the students and present them to the Student Council.
Trojan Game for Decorations
The Southern California game Nov. 26 has been designated as the campusdecoration game by the Council. Notre Dame has no home-coming game, but each year one home game is customarily designated for decorating the halls with inspiring, colorful displays. The Southern California game got the nod over the Iowa game largely because the (Continued on Page 33)
Freshman Elections Slated November 9
The freshmen will elect their class officers for this year on Wednesday, Nov. 9, in the usual Dining Hall polling booths.
Mike Jacobs, chairman of the Student Council Service committee, is working with Ed Farrell, chairman of the Blue Circle, to promote the elections. . These men met last Tuesday with Tom Murphy, John Wise, Jerry Marshall, and John O’Connell, Council representatives from Breen-Phillips, Farley, St. Edwards and Zahm Halls respectively. Rules governing the elections were laid at that time and the representatives were given the job of “getting out the vote.”
As in the past, any student seeking one of the four class offices must have a clear academic and disciplinary record and must have his nomination filed with the Council representative in his hall before Oct. 29. A man may run for office independently or on a party ticket with three other fellows. The nominations must be signed by 30 freshmen.
The polls will be open on the day of elections from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. until 4:30 in the basement of the dining hall. I.D. cards must be presented in order to vote. They will be punched, to prevent stuffing the ballot box.
The campaign has not yet reached its peak and only a few candidates have been heard from at this time. However, a full list of the parties and candidates will be ready next week.
—Jim Carrig
Fr. Nealy, Frank Leahy Open Marriage Forum
Delivering two of the finest lectures heard at Notre Dame in recent years to a disappointingly small audience, Rev. Frank Nealy, O.P., and Mr. Frank Leahy opened the Fall Marriage Forum for graduate students, January graduates, and married students on the evening of Oct. 19. Father Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., general chairman of the forum, opened the meeting by pointing -out the importance of having a clear idea of the principles of Catholic marriage. He later moderated a discussion period which lasted almost an hour.
In his lecture Father Nealy said that the breakdown of modern marriage has paralleled the breakdown of family life which undermined the Greek and
10
Roman Empires. He stated that selfishness, an irreligious attitude toward marriage, and a low birth rate led to the disintegration of the ancient civilizations and that these ideas, prevalent in our own times, must be checked to avoid disaster.
Coach Leahy’s inspiring lecture emphasized the happiness that can be attained in marriage through family life. He pointed out that the ideal mate should be a religious person, have a great love for children, and a sincere respect for his parents. Mr. Leahy concluded his talk by saying that marriage will depend on the character of the person and that such character should be moulded here at Notre Dame.
The second session of the Marriage Forum was held last Wednesday night and featured lectures by Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Mr. John Kane. Once again the lectures carried important messages.
Speaking from the sociological point of view. Father Cavanaugh brought out the difficulties and problems of modern marriage. Mr. Kane emphasized the fact that the family is the foundation of society and that the Church depends on the family to perpetuate Christianity.
The next meeting of the Marriage Forum -will be held next Wednesday evening. Lectures on the psychological aspects of marriage will be given by Rev. James Smyth and Rev. Paul Bailey. C.S.C. Father Smyth will an
alyze the psychological differences of the sexes, while Father Bailey ■will speak on conjugal love as the foundation of marital happiness.
The remaining lectures in the Marriage series are:
Nov. 2 — Psychological Aspects of Marriage. Rev. James Smyth—Psychology of Men and Women; Rev. Paul Bailey, c.s.c.—Coi^figal Love and Mari- ♦ tai Happiness. f
Nov. 9 — Physiological and Educational Aspects of Marriage. Dr. Herbert Ratner—Physiology of Marriage; Rev. Joseph Haley, c.s.c.—Sex Education With Accent on Purity.
Nov. 16—Economic and Legal Aspects of Marriage. Mr. Louis Radelet —Money and Marriage; Mr. Robert Sullivan—Law and Marriage.
Nov. 21 — Sacramental Aspects of Marriage. Mr. Patrick Crowley—Aiming for Sanctity in Marriage; Mrs. Patricia Crowley—The Apostolate of Catholic Family Life.
Nov. 30—Moral Aspects of Marriage. Rev. Philip Hanley, o.P.—Current Moral Attitudes on Marriage; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C. — Virtues of Christian Married Life.
Dec. 5 — Preparation for Christian * Married Life. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.—Purpose and Conduct of Courtship; Rev. Thomas McDonagh, c.s.c.— Engagement as Preparation for Marriage.
“It’s one of the country’s most natural, beautiful campuses,” says stocky Mike Mozer, foreman of the Notre Dame ground crew, and he has spent fifteen years helping to keep it that way. Mike, who came to the United States from Hungary in 1930 and began working on the University ground crew four years later, has first hand knowledge of every green growing thing on the campus; what he hasn’t planted he has pruned.
Mike heads a crew of twelve full time workers, who spend forty-four hours a week keeping things under the dome looking neat. On snowy Winter Sundays they can expect to raise that by two or three hours, because keeping the walks cleared is one of theii- main jobs in Winter. This walk cleaning detail means early rising, too, if they want to beat some of the more eagei’ students; but Mike says it’s nothing like when the Navy was here: “We had to be out by five-thirty or those boys would have the snow packed so hard it took picks to clear it off.” He was one man who was glad to see the sack-loving civilians come back to the campus.
Black Top Is Best
The walks are an important part of any campus according to Mike, but he can’t understand why so many students don’t like to use them. “They want to make their own paths,” he says, “and we’d like to oblige them, but we can’t be laying walks everywhere.” Mike prefers black top walks; he says they’re easier- on the shoes, healthier for the feet, and fit Notre Dame’s personality; besides, they don’t crack like concrete. He estimates that for §5,090 another two miles of walks could be laid where there are now only cinder paths; this
® Oct. 28, 1949
Campus Beauticians
Mike Mozer and Crew Work Full Time At Keeping Notre Dame’s Natural Beauty
By JOSEPH SCHEIDLER
would include a safe stretch through Badin bog. Also, he’d like to black top the concrete walks on the “new campus,” if the boys “upstairs” would let him.
There are really two campuses, according to Mike — the old one, which is the most beautiful, because it is the most natural: it extends as far south as the statue of Father Sorin. The new campus, which includes the “gold coast,” is too “planned” to suit the naturalist in Mike.
For those who have complained about the number- of trees being cut down and the close pruning the crew has been doing, Mike explains, “we can’t risk anyone getting hurt, or windows being smashed by falling timber when the winds start blowing.” He says there has never been an accident of that kind since he has been working here, and he hopes to keep a clean record. But he guarantees that the scenic campus won’t be de-forested, because for every tree they cut out they plant two new,
A couple of men from the maintenance crew trim a small tree, the Department has its own nurseries which supply trees to fill in where others have been removed.
healthy ones near-by. For years new trees had to be trucked in from Michigan, but Mike has his own nurseries now, and is raising his own miniature forest. He’s trying to replace poplars, which, although attractive trees, don’t seem to be doing well.
Seventy-Six Trees	'
It was Mike and his crew who put in seventy-eight trees to make an evergreen park of the quadrangle. Some of the campus naturalists predicted that at least half of them would die, but Mike boasts seventy-six still standing. He credits this high percentage to one of his special techniques: he waits until the ground is frozen solid before going to work removing the trees; this way the earth will stick to the roots, which are in their most dormant stage. “When they thaw out they never know they’ve been transplanted.” His men don’t particularly enjoy chopping through cement-like ground, but they can be fairly (Continued on Page 33)
'll
Webster to Present Julius Caesar Here
Notre Dame is in for a rare treat.
Sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series, Margaret Webster’s famous Shakespearean Eoad Company is scheduled to appear on campus Nov. 10, presenting the great bard’s epic tragedy, Julius Caesar. Here for one night only, these nationwide favorites will begin their performance in Washington Hall at 8 p.m.
The Eev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., chairman of the Committee on Student Entertainment, has announced that all seats for the single show will be reserved. Tickets will go on sale in the lobby of the Caf the first of the week, and may be had for the respective prices of §1.80, $1.50, and $1.20.
Heading the cast of notable performers in Miss Webster’s outstanding group are Louisa Horton, Kendall Clark, and David Lewis. Miss Horton, a widely experienced young actress, has had leading roles in such Broadway successes as Soldier’s Wife, and the hit production, Voice of the Turtle. Hollywood engaged Miss Horton for the movie version of the popular Broadway show, All My Sons, in which her sensitive portrayal won warm praise from the nation’s critics. She will play the role of Portia, Brutus’ wife in Julius Caesar.
Kendall Clark, a veteran of 14 active years in the theater, will portray the top male role, Mark Anthony. During his career, he has played such major parts as Major Eobinson, in the Home of the Brave. During the .past three seasons he played with Tallhlah Bank-head in The Eagle Has Two Heads, and stage managed her recent revival of Private Lives.
David Lewis, highly acclaimed for his fine portrayals of Horatio and Macduff in Miss Webster’s Macbeth and Hamlet last season, will play the part of Brutus in her current production. His background discloses a year with the Ulen Wells players along the Chautauqua circuit and seven full seasons of Summer theater work in major Eastern stock companies. On Broadway he has appeared in Take It As It Comes, The Streets Are Guarded, and Little Women.
Organized in 1947, the Margaret Webster Shakespeare Company has brought outstanding productions to cultural centers (mostly colleges) in 34 states and three Canadian provinces. For this, her second season, Miss Webster has, by popular demand chosen two Shakespearean plays—The Taming
of the Shrew in addition to Julius Caesar—but eventually she hopes to include the works of Chekhov, Sheridan, Moliere, Shaw, and other great dramatists in the repertoire of her unique company.
Vetville Issues Rules For Polio Prevention
Although no unduly alarming outbreak of polio has threatened Vetville (there have been three cases to date), the Council of Vetville, after consultation with the University physician, Dr. Eobert Egan, University offcials, and city and county health officers, has issued a bulletin containing basic recom-
Vetville's Mayor Zuckowsky
mendations for avoiding the disease. The Council and Mayor Leo ‘Zeke’ Zuckowsky sought the suggestions mainly to give some definite system of action and encouragement to the people of Vetville.
The prevention of infantile paralysis is a puzzling problem largely because the germ often causes sickness without any paralysis. Therefore, effective control is held back since the presence of the disease may go undetected. Because no definite measures are known, those issued follow closely the rules of common sense urged by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.
According to Dr. Egan the advice is designed to avoid person to person contact since infantile paralysis is spread in much the same manner as the common cold, from one individual to another. It is advised that the families stay in their own home environment and do as little visiting as possible with other Vetville families. Children under 16 are quarantined to their own front yard by state law.
“It’s strange that all three stricken have been adults,” commented Dr. Egan, “since it’s usually a childhood disease. The main precautions are for children.” It is assumed, however, that since the residents of Vetville with University classes, outside jobs, and families are extremely hard-working, overtiredness is a contributing factor.
The bulletin, therefore, urges plenty of rest, and the avoidance of overwork, 4 fatigue and strenuous activities. A normal routine is suggested and recreational activities away from the campus is advised.—Frank Haendler
New York Expert Cleans Art Collection in Library
Notre Dame’s library art collection is getting its collective face washed. The Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, 4 containing one of the best art collections in the Midwest, is undergoing maintenance attention at the hands of an expert in that field — Mr. C. Fritz Hoelzer of New York City.
Artist Hoelzer is cleaning and revarnishing the canvasses of the Library works, removing the dust and tarnish of many years. He has extensive experience at such work including the entire collection of 3000 works at Georgetown University.
He divides his time between his -studio in New York and the work at Notre Dame. At the present time Mr. Hoelzer is in the East, but plans to return shortly. He will be assisted on his next stay at the University by his son who recently graduated from Harvard.
The work on the Library canvases required care and patience and a great amount of skill. The dirt which has accumulated is removed first, slowly *4 and in detail. Each work is then revarnished. Many of the older canvases in the collection will need retouching, where the canvas has cracked or blistered. The collection includes some very valuable works by masters such as Van Dyck, Guido and Tintoretto.—Jack Powers
ATTENTION, FACULTY
All members of the faculty who want to receive the JUGGLER this year are asked to turn in their names to the Publications Department, by a card or in person, no later than the end of next week. The JUGGLER will be mailed free to all faculty members who request it but those who do not hand in their request now must pay the regular subscription price.
12 ■
The Scholastic
FRESHMAN ENGLISH EXAM
Sophomores and second semester freshmen who have not yet passed the Freshman English Essentials examination may take the examination in Rooms 250 and 254, Main Building, on Thursday, Nov. 3, from 7 to 9 p.m.
Students who have not passed the examination, but who may have received their freshman English grade, are reminded that credit for the course is withheld from their master record card in the Director of Studies office until they pass the Essentials examination.
Great Books Foundation Started on Campus
This year for the first time the Great Books Foundation, as originated and initiated by Mortimer Adler and Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago, has been organized on the Notre Dame campus. The movement is under the direction of the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy.
With more than forty students and a dozen of the Vetville wives, Father Brennan has arranged for two different discussion groups to meet every two weeks. One comes together in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial every second and fourth Thursday of the month under the moderatorship of Professor Robert Sullivan of the Law School and Mr. Alvin Marrero, instructor in the Philosophy department. This group is comprised of undergraduate students only.
On the first and third Wednesday of every month, under the leadership of the Rev. Paul Bailey, c.s.c., Vetville Chaplain, and Mr. John Broderick, assistant dean of the Law School, a second discussion group consisting of Vetville wives meets in the Vetville recreation hall.
The campus divisin of the Great Books Foundation is part of the national movement to acquaint people with the classic literature of all ages. Today over 400 organizations sponsor Great Books Groups.
The Foundation is a non-profit organization. The only expenses incurred by the members are small fees made for permanent possession of the reading selections.
The Great Books Foundation has outlined a four-year course which will include 18 two-hour discussion periods per year. A reading selection is assigned for each period.
Usually the groups are made up of 20 to 40 people. All that is asked is
Oct. 28, 1949
an ability to read and a willingness to discuss. The leaders attempt to guide discussions, but will not lecture or an-swer questions. It is up to the individual member to reach his own conclusions. The books studied and discussed range from ancient classics to modern selections.
NFCCS Group Seeks Campus Interest
The local council of the National Federation of Catholic College Students is undertaking this year to provide more campus interest and activity in the NFCCS by providing for the affiliation of campus clubs with the national organization. Bill Kirchner, Chicago Regional Vice President of NFCCS and President of the Notre Dame Student Council, has expressed a wish that many of the chibs currently operating on the campus will take advantage of this opportunity to take an active part in the country-wide Catholic group.
The NFCCS is functionally broken down into national commissions, six of which are active in this Chicago region. The six are a forensic commission, an international relations commission, an interracial justice commission, a liturgy commission, a Mariology commission and a press commission.
Law Association Honors Vice-Presidents
The Notre Dame Law Association honors the University's five new vice-presidents at a dinner in the LaSalle Hotel Oct. 17. Seated: Father Kehoe, Father Kenna, Father Cavanaugh, Father Hesburgh and Father Burke. Father Cavanaugh is president of the University while the others are vice-presidents together with Father Murphy who was absent. Standing: Judge Luther M. Swygert, Ass'n. Pres. Francis Jones, Dean Clarence Manion, Attorney Aaron Huguenard and Professor Robert E Sullivan.
Local NFCCS delegates Jim Garvin and Ed Farrell will conduct a meeting next week to which all campus clubs having interests in common with any of these commissions are requested to send representatives. If enough interest is shown, the Local Council officers will then represent the interested clubs at the Chicago regional meetings. This will enable contact to be made between the campus clubs and their national counterparts, and will provide a more active participation from this University in the national activities of the NFCCS.
At next week’s meeting, the time and place of which will be posted, Garvin and Farrell will report the results of the third Chicago Regional Meeting of the year, which was held yesterday. The campus gathering will serve as an orientation program, to acquaint the club representatives with the purposes and aims of the NFCCS. and to work out the details of affiliation with the Regional Commissions.
Under present NFCCS Local Council arrangements, four representatives from Notre Dame participate in the Regional conferences at Chicago. These four are Jim Garvin, Chairman of the Local Council and Senior Delegate to the Chicago Regional chapter, Ed Farrell, Junior Delegate to the chapter, Art Frericks, Alternate Delegate, and Bill Kirchner, Regional Vice President.
13
'Morning Star,' New U.S. Catholic Paper, To Begin Publication Daily in November
By JAY CONLON
A quarter of a century ago in the middle of the Roaring Twenties, a Catholic newspaper in Iowa started something unique in Catholic newspaper annals, daily publication.
For twenty years the publishers and editors of that newspaper poured their time and money into making a daily Catholic newspaper in the U.S. a going concern. The paper floundered through the flapper days, sagged through a depression and finally collapsed because American Catholics weren’t interested. Meanwhile in China six Catholic dailies flourished in one diocese alone; three million Catholics in Holland supported five dailies; and with a swish of a sickle, the Communists bellowed “class conflict” from a hundred dailies. Still lay American Catholics sat placidly, waiting for the hierarchy to produce a newspaper for them.
Need for Catholic Dailies
Last spring, Father Paul Bussard speaking at the Notre Dame Baccalaureate Mass emphasized the “need for a score of Catholic dailies in strategic cities throughout the U.S.” Precisely at that time, several men and women with more faith than newspaper experience sat over coffee in the ND cafeteria and planned the answer to Father Bussard’s plea, a new American Catholic daily.
They called it the Morning Star in honor of one of the titles of the
Blessed Virgin Mary; its home was to be Chicago and this was their group: From Denver came Bernadette and Robert Hoyt. Bob was to be editor; he had done copy desk work with the Denver Register. His wife would be a reporter on the new paper. From Cleveland came their feature editor, Norma Krause; she had worked on a Cleveland weekly. Adolph Schalk, a free lance writer, journeyed from St. Louis. Their circulation manager was a Princeton graduate, William Martin, and from Kansas City came a young college graduate, Geraldine Carrigan, to act as associate editor. With the exception of the editor, all were without extensive newspaper training. This, then, was the apostolic group and the staff of the new Morning Star.
Met Last Year
Their first meetings were held in May and June of last year, and it was here that they decided the policy of the paper.
The Morning Star was established to exercise Christian judgment on the affairs of the world. The Morning Star looks for the complete story; the philosophic principle and connection between seemingly distant and unrelated topics. What connection lies between the loan to Tito of Yugoslavia and the avowed principles of the foreign policy of Acheson? The American Legion
says no more legislation in favor of DP’s lest a burden should be placed on the American people. What is the underlying reason for this? The Morning Star condemning secularism and materialism in its editorial page, will evince the Catholic ideals of social justice and fair play.
To Appear in November
Since that first meeting of a small group of enthusiasts, faith and hard work have transferred the Morning Star from its paper stage to reality. It’s first eight-page issue will appear in November. They have an agreement with a printer who will publish the paper* five days a week at cost. They have arranged for United Press News Service which will keep tab on foreign and local news; a lawyer has drawn up legal papers for incorporation as a ♦ non-profit organization and through him they have met many helpful and influential people; contemplative houses have promised their prayers; nuns and priests have pledged support; they have developed a corps of correspondents sprinkled over the globe, and in recognition of the ideals of the paper, the whole staff is taking a course in Thomistic theology from a top-notch theologian at the Dominican House of Studies.
Ovei* and over the chiming voices of defeatists have prophesied failure. Authorities said the idea is foolhardy without a million dollar backing. The first year’s publication will cost $200,000. This must and will come from independent sources throughout the U.S.
Students Step at Senior Square Dance
I
Smashing Atoms in Science Hall
Dr. Bernard Waldman Heads Post-War Study
By JACK WARD
“ADVANCED” — You might have noticed the word on the door leading to the Science Hall. The word is a gigantic understatement; for within the confines of that basement is situated not only a graduate school nuclear physics laboratory, but one of the world’s most powerful electrostatic generators (in the parlance of the common man, an “atom smasher”) and a handful of men who know how to use it.
Prominent in the Notre Dame atomic experimentation project are Dr. Bernard Waldman, head of the Nuclear Physics Laboratory, and Dr. Walter C. Miller, his assistant. Also taking a vital part in the daily experiments are three nuclear physics graduate students, each holding an Atomic Energy Commission pre-doctoral fellowship, and a fourth, the recipient of a research corporation fellowship.
Dr. Waldman, a member of the Physics Department faculty since 1938, was a member of the atomic research program at Los Alamos, N. M., an official observer for the Manhattan District Project at the first atomic bomb explosion at Alamogordo, N. M., and a witness to the bombing of Hiroshima.
Work Begun in-1934 - - - --
Though most students are unfamiliar
Notre Dame’s work in connection
with
Researchers Adjust . . .
with atomic energy, the University had begun work in that field as early as 1934. For it was in 1934 that Dr. George B. Collins started work on Notre Dame’s first electrostatic generator. Completed in 1937, the machine was capable of producing 1,500,000 volts. Further progress came the following year with the setting of a scientific precedent—the highest artifical electron beam ever produced was accelerated through a voltage of 1,500,000 volts.
Continuing work along the lines of disintegration by electrons, another unduplicated feat was brought about the same year, 1938, when electric bombardment was made to produce a nuclear transmutation.
Finding its development surpassing the capacity of its machinery, the department began construction of a new pressure electrostatic generator in the summer of 1940, and completed it the following year. The new “atom smasher” (the one presently in use), unlike its predecessor, is mounted horizontally; it weighs 50 tons, is 40 feet long, and 8 feet in diameter. It can produce as many as 3,000,000 volts, and from it currents of several hundred micro-amperes of electrons can be obtained—thus giving it the capacity of producing X-rays. With the exception of the nuclear reactor at Hanford, Washington, the Notre Dame machine is the most powerful producer of X-rays in the world.
Lab Did War Work
Throughout World War II, when particular emphasis was placed on the importance-of atomic energy, especially as a weapon, the campus laboratory was placed under the guidance of the newly formed Manhattan District Project. During these years the effects of radiation, both electron and X-ray, were studied. The war time testing program at Notre Dame proved invaluable in the construction and operation of the Hartford Plutonium Plant on the west coast.
With such a deep-rooted background, the Laboratory is now conducting various experiments dealing with electrons and X-rays. As Dr. Waldman asserts, “The objective of the Laboratory is to
continue the study of the interaction of electrons and X-rays with matter.” He proceeds by giving reference to what has already been accomplished: “Towards this end considerable progress has been made on the nature of X-rays produced in gold targets by high energy electrons. Many new metastable states have been excited by X-rays and electrons, leading to a more comprehensive understanding of the nucleus.”
Await New ‘Atom Smasher’
The further development of atomic research at Notre Dame hinges almost entirely on the proposed new Science Center. Through an agreement recently completed with the Atomic Energy Commission, this Center will make available a new 2,000,000 volt Van de Graff electrostatic “atom smasher,” while a concrete structure, containing the gigantic machine, will be supplied by the University. The building, separate from the Science Building proper, will be under construction this Fall, and the generator- should be ready for use next Spring.
The next time you go home, don’t limit your praises of Notre Dame to the football team, alone. Keep in mind the men in the obscure confines of the Science Hall basement — the “AtomSmashers” of Notre Dame.
. . . Dissembled Smasher
Oct. 28, 1949
15
Soph Co+illion Picks Old Erin Background
The shadows of the ruins of Erin, spreading across campus, announce the coming of the Sophomore Cotillion. Colleens and their beaus preparing for a night of smooth dancing in Old Erin-Griff O’Williams and his pipers will weave the strange spell of Eire; its lakes, lilting tunes, and luscious lassies.
Passage back into the past of the mystic old island, selling at the cut-rate price of only §5.40, appropriate mementos of the journey included, will be opened to Juniors and Seniors Monday next in the basement of the Dining Hall. Sophomores, not daring to defy the banshee of loneliness, will still be allowed their reprieve by a continuation of their purchase permit.
For the night, dancing will be from 9 to 1. Couples must arrive by 10 o’clock and may leave after midnight. Late permission has been given until 2 o’clock for those attending the dance.
Permission to drive cars must be obtained through Father Leahy’s office.
MASS CALENDAR
(For the Week of October 29-November 4)
Saturday, Oct. 29—Simple—White—Mass of the Blessed Virgin for Saturday; Gloria, 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd Against persecutors of the church: Pref. BVM.
Sunday, Oct. 30—Double of I Class—White—Our Lord Jesus Christ, King; Gloria, 2nd Coll. XXI Sunday after Pentecost; Creed; Preface of Christ the King; Last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, Oct. 31—Simple—Violet—Vigil of All Saints; 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd Against persecutors: Common Preface.
Tuesday, Nov. 1—Double of I Class—White—All Saints; Gloria; Creed; Common Preface. (Holy Day of Obligation)
Wednesday, Nov. 2—Double—Black—Commemoration of all the Faithful departed. (Three Masses may be offered by every priest; the first Mass for the Dead is according to the intention of the Celebrant, the second for all the Faithful Departed, the third according to the intention of the Pope.)
Thursday, Nov. 3—Semidouble—White—Third Day within the Octave of All Saints; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the previous Sunday, 3rd Holy Spirit; Creed; Common Preface.
Friday, Nov. 4—Double—White—St. Charles Borromeo, Bishop and Confessor; Gloria; 2nd Coll. Octave, 3rd SS. Vital and Agricola, Martyrs; Creed; Common Pref. (Votive Mass in honor of the Sacred Heart of Jesus permitted. Tomorrow is the First Saturday of the Month.)
NOTE—Missa.- Recitata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday, 6:40 a.m.
Vespers and Compline—Dillon Hall daily, 5:20 p.m.
.. Vespers—Howard daily, 5:30 p.m.
Compline—Sorin five days a week, 6:45 p.m.
•	Compline—Walsh, 11:00 p.m.
Car permits will extend from noon on Friday to 6 p.m. Sunday.
Co-chairman Jim Garvin announced that 740 tickets for the Iowa game will be available. They may be purchased at the same time as the bid. However, the game is expected to be a sellout, and for that reason the tickets can be recalled at any time. It is suggested, therefore, that immediate purchase be made. Ticket price is §3.60.
Hotel reservations may be made in the Dining Hall basement during bid sales. A tuxedo pool has been arranged by Dave Lajoie and his committee. Information concerning campus rental . rates and also the relative downtown rates may be obtained at the same time.
lowans Form Hawkeye Club
Students from the state of Iowa met last week and formed the Hawkeye Club. The lowans chose Dave O’Leary, president; Jim McGuire, vice-president; Nick Muelhaupt, secretary-treasurer; and Carl Leveling, corresponding secretary of the new club.
The club will hold its next meeting Wednesday night. Plans for the ND-lowa game week-end will be discussed.
Seniors in YCS to Attend Family Movement Meeting
Seniors in the YCS will attend a meeting this Sunday, sponsored by the Catholic Family Movement of South Bend. The meeting will be a joint one and will include YCS seniors from St. Mary’s College. It is being held in commemoration of the Feast of Christ the King.	-• -
The Catholic Family Movement has for its goal the extension of the ideals of Catholic Action as practiced on campus, and their correlation into the family group. The units of the Movement are composed of four or five families who, by pooling their efforts and by mutual projects, attempt to understand some of the many perplexing problems that face the Catholic family today.
The group is sponsoring several proj-ects, one of which is the help and understanding of defective children. In conjunction with this project, the Movement has undertaken a series of lectures, the first of which was given last week by Rev. James Smyth, teacher of religion at Notre Dame. It is hoped that the contact between our seniors and the married couples will show the former the important need for Catholic Action principles in the family.
Another YCS activity on campus is the Compline and Vespers held daily _ in Dillon Hall Chapel. Here the Divine Office is recited and the Salve Regina is sung by choir groups. All students and faculty members are welcome to attend this devotion, which is held daily during October at 5:25 p.m. and during November at 5:15 p.m.
Geographical Clubs
Because of the large number of grad-uates, it was necessary to forego the publishing of pictures of the various geographical clubs in the 1949 Dome.; Although much the same expense prob-, lem 'exists this year, the Dome staff; announces that it will publish the pictures of organized geographical clubs that are willing to pay $10 to help de4 fray the production cost. Clubs, whose' pictures have already been taken, are under no obligation but must pay the fee if the picture is to appear. The club officials should contact the Activities Editor, Room 3, Sorin Hall, or thej Dome office in the basement of Walsh' Hall for further details.
FOOTBALL MOVIES
The Student Council will show movies of the 1949 Purdue-Notre Dame game to the student body at 3:15 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 3, in the Engineering Auditorium.
16
The Scholastic
Your Future
•3: As a Coach
This is the third in a series of job futures with material obtained from Notre Dame men in the various fields.
By JIM KINGSLEY
Thomas E. Hoyer
Mr. Thomas E. Hoyer was graduated from the Physical Education Department of the University of Notre . Dame in 1942. He is now swimming ' coach, assistant football coach, and teacher of Social Studies at South Bend Central High School.
* “My advice to Physical Education majors is — be versatile,” says Tommy Hoyer.
“If you confine yourself to one field, like football, you’ll have a terrible time getting a job — “name” football players excepted. But if you can coach anything, and have a strong academic subject besides, there’s room for you as a teacher-coach.
“Very few schools can use a man xfe with one or two talents. Remember, all schools aren’t big enough to support baseball or football as a major sport. A major sport is whatever you make it: it can be gymnastics, track, boxing, swimming, or even six-man football.
“Whatever it is, you have to be ready to coach it or you’re likely to fail. Think about the future. Students never did when I was at Notre Dame. We concentrated on the sports we liked and barely scraped through the aca-• demic side of the course.
“In my first job I had to coach track along with football and baseball. I felt pretty silly teaching pole-vault to fellows when I knew little more about it than they did.
Teaching Important
“Get a Master’s degree if you can. The difference between B.S. and M.S., in the field of education, comes out in dollars today. It’s supposed to distinguish a good teacher from a medi-_, ocre one.
“How true this is I don't know. But whether you get your Master’s or not, remember that a coach has to be a teacher. In fact, a great many schools — those that don’t emphasize athletics — want a teacher who coaches rather than a coach who teaches. So pick a good subject and learn it — but not social science. To people who read applications, social science is almost a cuss word. Their idea is that any fool can teach it.
“Besides being an all-around man, you have to be a hustler to get a good position. Know what you’re getting into and do something about it. First, decide which state you’re going to work in, make sure it will accept your credits, and check on its teacher’s license requirements. Then get a line on individual school policies like pay scale, tenure, and unionization. .
“Don’t ignore your home town. If you’re well known there, all the better. Renew contacts before they forget you. Have a cigar with the principal and find out if he has an opening.
Grammar Schools, Too
“Consider grade schools, too, as a possible field. They need physical directors more than ever because of the high birth rate during the war, and their- pay scale matches that of secondary schools.
“As for teacher’s agencies, I have found very little to recommend them as employment bureaus. They work this way: You pay a fee. When a school sends out a notice, the agency forwards it to you. Your application goes back to the school, through the agency, with thousands of others. By the time it’s
read, the job is usually taken. (Thai’s my experience, anyway.) ’
“If you should be accepted, the agency gets something like five per cent of your first year’s salary.
“The teacher-coach field is, in short, a promising one if you take these measures: be a good teacher and a versatile coach, study your opportunities, and try to work through personal contact. Do all this now, if you want to avoid a long and costly run-around after graduation.”
Political Science Sponsors Trip to Nation's Capital
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Political Science, announced this week that a trip to Washington, D. C., will be taken between semesters.
The affair will start on Jan. 26, with the group leaving on the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad’s vista-domed “New Columbian” and will arrive in Washington early Friday morning. The trip home will start Monday evening and end Tuesday night when the group returns to the University.
The trip has been arranged for January because of the amount of activity in the nation’s capital at that time. The students will have a chance to see the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Supreme Court in action. In addition, the group will attend an embassy reception and will have an interview with Walter Trohan, Washington correspondent for the Chicago Tribune.
17
Oct. 28, 1949
Chicago., city of Big
Shoulders
There comes a time around the middle of the semester when the whole mess is a little bit too much to stomach, when a change of scene is in order. The week’s work was particularly rough and a Saturday show won’t cure that stale feeling. South Bend has no allure and even twenty hours in the sack don’t appeal. Something has to be done. The guy down the hall has the answer — up to Chi.
Legally you’ve got thirty-six hours, starting Saturday noon, to shed the campus dust. It’ll do, though you wish there was more time and/or money. You shine your shoes, drop a clean shirt, pair of socks and sundry other articles into an overnight bag and head for the Circle.
The roundtrip ticket on the South Shore sets you back six cents over five bucks and you begin getting money conscious. But the wallet is quickly forgotten as you drop into a seat and pretend to sleep. Half way there you give up shuteye as a bad job and begin looking at the Chicago Trib. There’s plenty to do in the Windy City and you want to do most of it.
Everyone has a pet story about Chicago and they’re all different. That’s what makes the town. No matter where or when you go or what you want to do, the “Big Baby” on Lake Michigan fills the bill. It has, by its own admission, everything to please the visitor or wandering Notre Dame man. No
order is too tall. Everyone who comes to Chicago can have a good time.
You’re Lost at First
The first time you hit the city, you’re lost. The guys back at the hall told you to be sure to see at least a dozen different places and do as many different things but, like the twenty million plus visitors who pour into the city every year, you forget most of the advice and start out on your own. That was the main idea of this weekend, anyway, to do what you wanted to and forget bells, classes and lines.
Chicago’s boast of being a great city for conventions is not an idle one. The city has everything, literally. The hotel accommodations are among the best. The Sherman and Palmer House are centrally located and reasonable for your weekend. But there are many ■ more and, if you came up on the strength of a round trip ticket and a prayer, there’s a “Y” on Eighth and Wabash that’ll do for a night. One of your buddies may play Good Samaritan and invite you home with him or you may wind up on the go all the time.
Starting off presents a minor problem: too much to do and too little time. Among the many amusements Chicago offers, the sporting world takes the lead. At any given time during the year- something is going on in the city along athletic lines. If you like comedy with your baseball, the Cubs and
Sox put on matinees throughout th season. The Bears and Cardinals ca give any fan an exciting afternoon on occasion, the Hornets steal the spoi light. Chicago’s Stags, with the add tion of Leo Barnhorst, are perenniall strong in the BAA. Comes winter' an the Blackhawks, and with them th
Story by Ken Thoren and Al Laporte
Photos Through the Courtesy of Chicag
Association of Commerce and Indus 9
fastest game in the world. Toss in t few good and a few not so good boxing bouts and Chicago’s professional sport: rate at the top.
Amateurs Excel Too
As for the amateurs, take a trip tc Evanston on a Saturday afternoon Northwestern’s Wildcats claw and growl there every Fall. Back in Chicot proper, college basketball double-hecM-ers keep things moving. Some of the finest high school football in the country is played in the city. If you’re in doubt, get into Soldiers Field for a look-see at the annual Leo-Carmel game. Out of the “Slaughtering House” city came Notre Dame greats George Connor, Bill Fischer, Larry Coutre and a host of others. No other single city has sent so many outstanding 1^11 players to Notre Dame. Even a Brc^c-
Soldiers Field in lake-fronted Grant Park will seat well over 100,000 spectators at one of its more important events.
hd Big Times
. lyn Irishman has to bow to this su-• U£P01'ity. Chicago has been rightly ®led by many the “Mecca of Sports.”
But O.K., you didn’t come to see the I ’ “Luj” or “Moose” ramble about Wrig-l^ley Field’s turf and Barney’s scoring /isn’t commanding, your attention. If ;3you want to go sightseeing — boy! Last ifi week must have been a beauty to make ffyou do this! — there’s enough in this I /fourth largest city of the world to fill every hour. There’s the Art Institute, "the Merchandise Mart, Aquarium, Pub-@ Library, Wrigley and Tribune Build-I ing observation towers, and the Adler I. ' Planetarium to print but a few. If it’s music you want, head for the Opera House or Orchestra Hall. (Frankie Laine DOES NOT appear at either!) Or, how about a stage show?
Until a few years ago, if not just last year, Chicago, theatrically speaking, was looked upon as a step-sister. Old cast-offs that had been worn to a frazzle on Broadway were generally ; ^tu^led out to the Loop. More often J wran not the- leading - stars of 'these shows left .the cast, somewhere between 42nd street and Columbus Circle, v Seldom did they tour." The shows, 1 ? themselves, were generally second rate; K i shabby, slowed down by innumerable fl repetitions and usually frayed around the seams . were the costumes and i scenery.
Lately, however, things have been up. And this year Chicago’s page*can boast as loud as it
The stars of Cole Porter's 'Kiss Me, Kate' romp through a chorus of 'We Open in Venice.' L to r. they are Anne Jeffreys, Keith Andes, Julie Wilson & Marc Platt.
likes. In comparison with New York it has far fewer attractions, but in value they come up to the Broadway mark and in some respects even surpass it.
Leading the parade right now is Cole Porter’s Kiss Me, Kate. Its producers chose to send out a duplicate company rather than follow the old method of waiting until the original had completed its Broadway run before hitting Chicago. Kate is as snappy a musical as you’d ever want to see. Jammed with tintillating melodies, the score has redeemed Porter for failing in his two
preceding attempts. No one can beat his sharp wit. A clever, back-stage story integrated with Shakespeare’s Taming of the Shrew, it is a merry musical from curtain up to curtain down. Boasting a star-studded cast, which includes Anne Jeffreys, Keith Andes, Marc Platt and Julie Wilson, this is a show on which you can’t go wrong.
Then there’s Arthur- Miller’s Death of a Salesman. This is undoubtedly one of the finest plays that will be written in our time. It’s a harrowing (Continued on Page 31)
Museum of Science and Industry houses an eight-acre graphic history of man's
scientific and technical developments.

PART TIME WORK
If you are free from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. Monday to Friday you can earn $30 to $50 per week without conflicting with school work. For details
see i
MR. WILSON
Information Desk. Main Bldg.
7:00 P.M., Monday, Oct. 31.
From the makers of the tooth powder exclusively NAMED in Reader's Digest
Now! Amurol
in Tooth Paste!
Hc^ rout
Licensed by
University of Illinois Foundation
ONLY AMUROL DOES ALL
SIX!
4. Strengthen^ nature's immunity to tooth decay.
5. Adheres longer ro tooth surfaces for better therapeutic action.
6. New patented base releases ammonia at maximum strength.
49?
Economy Size
1. Stops growth of acid forming bacteria. ’
2.	Neutralize: and prevents formation of tooth destroying acids.
3.	Helps dissolve gluey film on teeth.
“Four Dentist Knows”
The Paste with the Good Taste
/Lnuro!
AMMONIATED DENTIFRICES
A murol
Tooth Powder l
For those who prefet an ammoniated powder Large economy size, only 49<
Junior Class Prepares For Picnic Tomorrow
Picnicking Juniors and their dates will enjoy a fall outing tomorrow afternoon at Potawatami Park from 2:30 to 5:30. For $1.50 per couple, the outdoorsmen will get an afternoon which includes transportation, refreshments, „ and sports contests.	H
Tickets, which tvent on sale last week, are still available from the hall representatives of the Student Council through this evening. The busses will leave the Circle and from St. Mary’s at approximately 1:15. Those who have dates from St. Mary’s are expected to catch the busses to the park there. Those with dates from downtown will leave with their dates from the Circle to go directly to the park.
Hank Madden and Bernie Lavins are ' general chairmen of the project. The committee heads are: park committee, Ben Blaz; recreation committee, Dick Garrity; ticket committee, Bob Kling-enberger; refreshment committee, Jerry Hank and Harry Hani van; transnortation committee, Norm Brown; publicity committee. Dick McDonald. Don Son-dag and Tom Myer will find dates for those men who need them.


World Relations Group Offers 17th Lecture Series
The International Relations Council of South Bend-Mishawaka offers “An Understanding of World Problems” as its 17th theme in a series. It will be presented at the Central High School Auditorium in South Bend.
The program will bring well knowm authorities on the timely problems that confront the world today. Among the distinguished visitors will be Dr. Kenneth Colegrove, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, and consultant to the State Department on Far Eastern Affairs; John Scott, correspondent for Time and Life magazines; and Harold R. Isaacs, associate editor of Newsiveek magazine.
Meetings will be held on Nov. 22, Dec. 6, Jan. 10, Feb. 7, and Mar. 7. All meetings will start at 8 p.m. Membership in the council includes admission to the 1949-1950 lecture and discussion series, and to any special programs -which may be added during the year. Memberships are available from any member of the Council. Regular membership for the series is two dollars ; student membership, fifty cents. Student tickets may be secured at the office of Student Council. All faculty members and students are cordially invited.

20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish, Navy Meet in Baltimore Sellout
•......-...............................
Future Opponents Win Four. Stumble Twice As Irish Rest Up for Annual Battle With Navy
ND Hopes to Swamp Middies in 23rd Game
By BILL DELANEY
By JACK ECONOMOU
While Notre Dame was enjoying a week’s rest before the annual Baltimore tussle with Navy, her future opponents won four games and dropped two. The best of these games was at Iowa City, Iowa, where the twice-beaten Hawkeyes edged out the Northwestern Wildcats, 28-21.
The lowans, invaders of the local stadium on Nov. 19, amassed a total of 407 yards by rushing and passing to drop the Rose Bowl champs to their third setback of the season. Late in the final quarter, with the score knotted at 21-all, quarterback Fred Ruck hit wing-© man Jack Dittmer for 37 yards and the winning score. Hawkeye line play was superlative, as they halted four sustained Wildcat drives within their own
20-yard line. The victory enabled Iowa to move into second slot in the Big Ten.
At Philadelphia, Navy, next on the Irish schedule, was defeated 28-7 by an unbeaten Pennsylvania squad. The Annapolis admirals were never in the game as flashy Quaker backs sped through the Navy line to score in every quarter. The
Frankie Hauff
lone Middie tally came in the second half when quarterback Mike Sorrentino climaxed a 46 yard march by diving over the goal.
Spartans Down Penn State
Lanky Lynn Chandnois again led the Michigan State Spartans as they took an easy 24-0 victory over a mediocre Penn State eleven. Performing before a homecoming crowd of 35,000 at East Lansing, the star right halfback started the scoring by speeding 60 yards untouched. He also prevented two Nittany Lion scores by sterling defensive play. This was the fourth consecutive victory for the Spartans after losing an opening game squeaker to Michigan.
Down at Baton Rouge, North Carolina, the only previously unbeaten squad to face the Irish, suffered its initial setback before the surprising attack of the Louisiana State Tigers. For the Tar-
(Continued on Page 27)
PROBABLE STARTNG LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME		NAVY	
Wightkin (198)	...E....	.... Andresen	(195)
Martin (204) ...		T...	.... Tetrault	(210)
Johnson (190) .		G—		 Wagner	(200)
Grothaus (192)	. ...C		.... Gambke	(190)
Wallner (203) .		G			 Harvey	(180)
Toneff (232) ...		T			 Hunt	(205)
Hart (245) 			E			 Ryan	(190)
Williams (180)	Q		 Zastrow	(209)
Spaniel (184) ...		H			 Havff	(170)
Coutre (170) ...	.....H...			 Powers	(165)
Sitko (180) ......		F ...	Bannerman	(187)
Starting time:	2 p.m.,	E.S.T.	
NAVY RECORD TO DATE
20 Southern California ............. 42
28	Princeton ................. 7
28	Duke ..................... 14
13	Wisconsin ................ 48
7	Penn ..................... 28
96 Totals ........................ 139
Notre Dame, 157; Opponents, 32.
A sellout crowd of about 60,009 is expected to be on hand in Babe Ruth Memorial Stadium at kickoff time tomorrow to watch Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish attempt to run its string of undefeated games to 33 at the expense of Navy. This will be the 23rd consecutive meeting between the two teams,, the oldest continuous series in Notre Dame football history. The Irish have won 17, lost 4, and tied 1.
The Navy’s hopes were high at the outset of the season but the first step-on the ladder was strong Southern Cal, and the Trojans like to play for keeps, as the Irish well know. The result— Navy wound up on the short end of a 42-20 score and hopes dimmed. Then quick as you can say “Bob Zastrow,” the Middies bounced right back into the twenty top teams by upsetting Princeton and heavily favored Duke on successive Saturdays, 28-7 and 28-14. Then, just as things were looking so promising, underdog, and we might add surprising, Wisconsin took the wind out of the Navy’s sails and drubbed them to the tune of 48 to 13. Last week, with Coach Frank Leahy scouting the
Captain Phil Ryan
© Oct. 28, 1949
21
game personally, the Middies again played dead before the onrushing, undefeated Penn Quakers. Damage: only 28 to 7, but it could have been worse.
2 Victories This Season
The two victories gained this season, however, match the number garnered by Navy teams of the past three years. Previous to this season, the Admirals had an unenviable three-season total of two wins, two ties and 23 losses.
When fall practice rolled around this year, Navy mentor- George Sauer found himself confronted with a large number of eager sophomores and a small group of veterans, which included only 11 lettermen, none of them centers or quarterbacks. Graduation had taken a heavy toll of first string material in such stellar performers as fullback Bill Hawkins, halfback “Pistol Pete” Williams, quarterback Reaves Baysinger, center “Tex” Lawrence and tackle Scott Emerson. The key positions of center- and quarterback were left vacant as the second and third stringers for these spots also were lost via the graduation route. Filling these positions and others would be no easy job, Coach Sauer and his aides decided.	'
Many of the sophs had looked extremely good in spring training and all of them were on the undefeated Plebe team of 1948. “It’s quite a jump from the Plebes to the varsity,” the Navy grid chief explained in looking over the Navy’s manpower situation, “but I believe some of the boys will do pretty well despite their inexperience.”
Bright Sophomore Star
The brightest sophomore star on the team is 209-pound Bob Zastrow who hails from Algoma, Wis. Bob was a standout quarterback on the Plebe team, but, oddly enough, during the spring training session he wasn’t a strong contender for the quarterback berth on the varsity. Since the beginning of the season, however, Bob has come into his own as a field general and passer. In the first three games of the season, Bob completed 32 passes out of 66 attempts. Six were for touchdowns. Only once in those three games was he trapped behind the line and then only for four yards. In the Wis-' consin game Bob had five passes intercepted, but the mistakes are a trademark of youth. He may yet be one of the best quarterbacks in the nation.
Navy’s captain, dependable Phil Ryan, will be holding down the right end post and Ronald Andresen will be at the other end at game time. Versatile Phil is a six-foot two-inch 190-pounder who plays a hard, steady game.
He is a natural athlete who blocks and tackles well and is equally adept at snagging aerials. Incidentally, Phil is also the president of the senior class. Andresen, another senior, has yet to ■win a letter but has seen quite a bit of action this year and probably will get the starting nod. Ron, a 195-pounder, stands an inch taller than Ryan.
The tackle slots have seen a number of different starters this season as have the guard positions. It is likely that Paul Tetreault and Jim Hunt will start at left and right tackles respectively. Walt Gragg, the heaviest man on the team, a 220-pound sophomore from Detroit, is also another likely starter. Wes Harvey and Walt Wagner, two seniors averaging 190 pounds, will fill in at the guard spots and Fred Gambke, a 190-pound junior, will complete the line at center.
Hauff at Left Half
In the T formation backfield, besides signal-caller Zastrow, will be
Bob Zastrow
sophomore Frank Hauff at left half, and lettermen Bill Powers and Roger-Drew at right half and fullback.
Hauff, Navy’s Bill Barrett, is a sawed off speedster from St. Louis, Mo. Frank was the leading scorer on the Plebe team last year and was considered outstanding during spring practice. He is 19 years old, stands five feet nine, and weighs 170 pounds.
Roger Drew, 185-pound junior, may be replaced by Dave Bannerman, another junior and the heaviest fullback on the team, at game time. Dave is a 187-pounder. Bill Powers is a 165-pound Texan and also a junior.
The outcome of tomorrow’s game should be a happy one as far as the Irish are concerned.
South Bender Smith Will Lead Trackmen
By TED PRAHINSKI
Bob Smith, who holds most of the University sprinting records, became the first South Bender to captain a Notre Dame track team when his election was confirmed by the athletic board last W week.
Bob, a 160-pound six-footer, holds a pretty good average in the school of Physical Education and is aiming for a teaching-coaching job in the South Bend area after his graduation next June.
“Smitty” began his running career in his junior year at Central High School downtown. Although he was good enough to captain the Bear’s cindermen and win the conference sprint titles-, he never ran " any really exceptional times until coming under the tutelage of Coach “Doc” Handy here at ND.
Smith’s entrance into college was delayed by 14 months Navy service, but in September o£ 1946 he began his schooling here. During his freshman year and the indoor season of his sophomore year, Bob was a relatiyely obscure sprinter. But one fine spring day in 1948 he tied a school record with a :9.6 100-yard dash in a dual meet. Coach Handy was surprised at Smith’s exhibition since the South Bender had never before been clocked in less than ten seconds for the century.
Bob wasted no time in proving that the clocking was not a fluke. Before his sophomore year was finished, he held the University record for 220 yards at 21.2 seconds and had scored a place in the NCAA 200 meter championship.
As a junior, Bob had a terrific season in indoor track competition winning most of his 60-yard dashes, running the nation’s fastest 300-yard dash time of 31.4 seconds, in setting a Central Collegiate meet record and consistently turning in a 49 second quarter-mile leg for relay events.
Unfortunately, Bob sprained his ankle in the Illinois Tech relays near the end of the indoor season. For the rest of the year he wasn’t able to run up to the usual Smith standard, even though he did grab a few places in dual meets during the outdoor season.
Right now Bob is participating in the fall track workouts under assistant track track coach Jofin Smith (no relation) and he says the ankle feels fine. Bob | won’t say so, but he kind of gives you the impression that this coming track season will be his best yet.
22
The Scholastic
Harriers Join Quest For Sailors' Scalps
The cross-country boys run their longest race of the year—five miles— tomorrow morning, when they join the gridders in going aftei- Naval Academy scalps.
♦ It’s Navy’s home meet and there’s a chance the Middies might invite a third school, possibly Villanova, to make the race on the academy grounds interesting. In last year’s meet the Irish took an easy triumph from these two Eastern schools by scoring 24 points to Villanova’s 47 and Navy’s 55.
According to the word, neither of these schools is supposed to be particularly strong, but the harriers are wary. Last week they went out to Iowa, not knowing what to expect, and came home on the wrong end of a 27-28 count. The Handymen had no kicks coming, since last year they dumped the lowans by the same narrow score.
The Hawkeyes just about put last week’s meet on ice when they took the first two places, but the Irish made a fight of it by getting the next four-spots with Ben Almaguer third, Jim Kittell fourth and Con Tetrault and George Gross tied for fifth. Any re-maining Notre Dame hopes were doused ® though, when the lowans clinched the victory by taking the next three spots.
—Ted Prahinski
Dwyer Cops Annual 3-Mile Frosh Cross-Country Race
Fred Dwyer, of East Orange, N. J., led the pack all the way to win the annual freshman cross-country cham-pionship race held last Friday afternoon around the University lakes.
Dwyer, who ran a 4:22 mile last spring in his first year of track competition, hit the first mile of last Friday’s race in a steaming 4:40 and carried on to a fine 9:50 two-mile time. He coasted home to an easy 15:23 final three-mile clocking.
In second place with a fast 15:49 time was John O’Connor, of Beloit, Wis. George Helfenstine of Brooklyn, N. Y., O was third and John Gelson took fourth.
Bob Vignos, one of the tiniest fellows ever to run at Notre Dame, took fifth spot right in front of Harry Snyder. Tim Kett and Jim Adler completed the list of finishers.
An “unimpeachable source” says that when Coach “Doc” Handy saw the times h posted by the frosh, he pulled out a calendar and started counting the days till the boys became eligible for varsity competition.—Ted Prahinski
Oct. 28, 1949
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by Kalph Wright mmum—
Our Photographer-Friends
The current “rage” among cameramen these days is to get a picture of a Notre Dame football player in the act of holding. Photographs are often deceptive, but, even if they do show ND holding, what does it prove? It wouldn’t be too difficult to catch some of our opponents in the act either. Coach Leahy has often said he doesn’t mind being penalized so long as the officials watch the other teams too. Maybe the eager cameraman should watch our opponents once in awhile.
According to newspaper reports, Michigan State will have movie cameras in the North, South, East and West stands for the Notre Dame game. They want to make sure that they have pictures of the contest in case we complain about the officiating. What an ingenious idea. The Spartan officials will have other things to worry about come Nov. 5.
ND Team Among Statistical Leaders
Midwestern newspapers don’t seem to care about publishing the national collegiate football statistics, but we found some in a southern paper the other day. As a team, Notre Dame was prominent in all the figures, but the Irish individuals weren’t. Of course, any well-balanced team that substitutes freely won’t have individuals too high in yardage gained.
The figures (not including last Saturday’s games) showed ND to be fifth in rushing offense and ninth in total offense. Among major (?) colleges, Texas Western led in both these departments. The Irish were listed as 14th in total defense and fifth in rushing defense.
Among individuals, only Bob Williams and Bill Gay rated. Bob ranked fifth in national punting. Gay was 22nd among the country’s punt return experts.
Cage Outlook Is Good
Those who thought Notre Dame would have a sad basketball team this winter may be surprised. In practice sessions to date, the Irish eagers look red hot. The three returning letter-men are good ones and the sophomores
are exceptionally talented. You can be sure that this will be one of the most aggressive, best - conditioned Irish squads in recent years.
It should be a pleasure watching the eagers in action this season, but it would be nice to have something to see while waiting for the big games. Many schools always have some sort of preliminary before the varsity affair. Since we have to get to the fieldhouse by seven o’clock to get a decent seat, it. would be a fine gesture if the athletic department lined up a few prelims. The frosh, the varsity subs, interhall teams and South Bend fives could all get in on these games.
About Coach Leahy
We thought the Sport magazine article on Coach Leahy was extraordinary because the author, Ed Fitzgerald, went to the trouble of finding out the truth. Too many sportswriters throw abuse at Coach Leahy merely on the basis of hearsay. It’s too bad that a sincere, Christian man gets criticized because he isn’t a phoney hand shaker.
The sportswriters who really know Coach Leahy don’t condemn him. In fact, he received quite a compliment from several prominent scribes after the Washington affair. Though they didn’t even see the game, these writers said that Notre Dame was definitely in the right in the controversy. Their reason? Coach Leahy said so.
Coach Leahy makes few mistakes when it comes to football, but he fumbled the ball on his radio program last Friday. He picked Clemson to beat South Carolina. The Gamecocks beat Clemson, 27-13, but that wasn’t the Coach’s big mistake. The teams had played on Thursday and the game was already over when he made his prediction.
Prediction of the Week
Navy’s leaky defense won’t stop the country’s top offensive eleven — that’s for sure. Zug Zastrow and Mike Sorrentino will probably throw until their arms are lame to get the Middies in the scoring column. Navy may score a time or two, but . . . Notre Dame 49, Navy 14;
23
Coach Moose Krause diagrams plays for the Notre Dame eagers. Kneeling are Krause, Assistant Coach John Brennan, Tom Johnson and Captain Kevin O'Shea. Standing: Dick Giedlin, Neil Fichtel, Hugh Wilcox, Bob Wray, Gene Kenny, Jack Neumayer.
Krause Molds Powerful Basketball Squad; Three Lettermen Return to Irish Quintet
By JACK MEANEY
Getting ready for the time when the closing of the football season will send the sport spotlight swinging toward basketball, Moose Krause is busy molding his 1949-50 edition of Irish courtmen. Assisting Krause at these daily workouts in the Old Gym is John Brennan, center of past Irish quintets.
Although only three monogram men return from last year’s 17 won, seven lost team, the outlook isn’t as bad as it might appeal- to be. An outstanding group of sophs plus the return of capable reserves is the reason for optimism. 4»-
Heading the list of returnees is Captain-elect Kevin O’Shea, basketball player extraordinary and two-time All-American. The sharp shooting San Franciscan was slowed down by bad knees last year but after a springtime operation, Kev reports they feel "pretty good.” With the added incentive of leading his team, this could be O’Shea’s greatest year.
Back at the pivot post will be another familiar • figure, hustling John Foley, Thus far in pre-season practice, the
Worcester, Mass., product has displayed midseason form.
Chicagoan Dan Bagley has conquered enemy “77” and is now eligible for varsity competition. A Leo Barnhorst type of player, Dan can rebound with the best of them and looks like one of the starting forwards.
Paired with Bagley up front could be either Kewanee, Illinois’ Marty O’Connor, the third returning letterman, or sophomore Leroy Leslie. The latter, a six-foot, one-inch lefty from Johnstown, Pa., has a terrific spring in his jump, oftentimes outreaching taller opponents. He’ll grab his share of the rebounds, too. You can’t discount O’Connor’s year of experience, though, and he could get the nod on the strength of it. Marty can also play guard and may wind up there.
In the' backcourt with O’Shea will probably be another second-year man, Don Strasser. Anyone who saw last year’s Varsity-Old Timers game can tell you that his favorite shot is a two-handed set. Don. doesn’t miss very often, at least not when he’s “on” as he was that day.
Behind John Foley at centei' are couple of six-four sophs, Mike Jaekles and Bob Wray. Jack Neumayer, like O’Shea an alumnus of St. Ignatius High school in Frisco, Hugh Wilcox, Tom Dunn and Bob Clancy round out the list of promising yearlings.
Last year’s reserves figure in the plans too. Husky Dick Giedlin is back as is Neil Fichtel. This may be the year Kentuckian Gene Kenny comes into his own.
This year’s team isn’t a big one as basketball teams go, nor is it an experienced one. Potentially, Coach Krause has a winning outfit. No doubt there will be quite a few kinks to iron out but given a little time and a chance to prove themselves, the current crop of Irish basketeers should win a lot of ball games.
ND Sailing Club Ready To Meet Wildcats Oct. 30
With an opening match victory tucked firmly in their dinghies the Notre Dame Sailing Club is readying for its Oct. 30 dual meet with Northwestern. The opening win was a squeaker over Illinois Institute of Technology 27 % -25. Midway in the race a Notre Dame dinghy was capsized, but the yachtsmen were fished from the icy Lake Michigan waters im-mediately.
Against Northwestern, the sailors will attempt to repeat last year’s victory. Captain Fred Joyce, Dick Bro'-herson, Joe Schrank, Tom Starshak and Jim Amy make up the team.
The highpoint of the fall season will be the 3rd annual Thanksgiving meet at the Chicago Yacht Club with Northwestern as hosts. Fifteen of the top -teams in intercollegiate sailing will com-pete, including ’49 national champs Yale. The team for that event will be picked on the basis of pre-meet performances.
Bickert and Flood Pace Freshmen in Swim Meet
In the annual frosh interhall swimming meet last week, Bob Bickert of Lincoln, Neb., and Jim Flood of Bald-win, N. Y., monopolized the scoring with five first place finishes between them.
Flood won the 50 and 200-yard freestyle competition, and also took first in the 50-yard backstroke. Bickert captured the 50-yard breaststroke and also the low board diving honors.
Marsalak and Scannell took the 100- '' yard free style and the 75-yard individual medley.
24
The Scholastic
Muscle Madness
Over a Dozen Lifters Are Working Ont In Hopes of Entering Collegiate Meets
By GEORGE OTOTT
Many Notre Dame students, while passing behind the Main Building on their way to class, have often paused and stared at the dingy, squat, two-story * gray brick building to the North. However disappointing it may seem to some future Notre Dame physicist, this unassuming relic of antique architecture does not contain some secret atom smasher, but merely houses what has been a secret to so many, for so long, the Notre Dame Weightlifting Club. Under the auspices of the Rev. Bernard Lange, C.S.C., this most important branch of the Notre Dame Institute of Applied Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene, has at las? ® arisen to assume its position among the , other organized sports of Notre Dame.
However, weightlifting is by no means a novel sport here. For the last 14 years,
unidentified lifter, Joe Helwig, Louis Polman, Charlie 'Meyers and Bob Raymond.
Oct. 28, 1949
this ancient building has been a haven for those ambitious young students who desire to mold a strong, healthy body as well as a healthy mind. Father Lange, who formerly held the title of “Fourth Strongest Man in the World,” is a foremost proponent of the systematic science of weightlifting. Now, at the age of 63, and weighing a trim 255 lbs., he spends a large share of his time tutoring his younger “muscle aspirants,” pausing now and then to do a few presses himself, perhaps to keep in shape one of the most muscular pair of arms in the world.
Through various donations, and largely as the result of his own efforts, this former head of the Notre Dame Athletic Department has singularly built one of the best equipped weightlifting gyms in this section of the country. Though small
Bob Karl shows muscles to cameraman.
in size, this well-stocked gym contains tons of barbells, dumbbells, strength--building machines, and various other gadgets that insure complete training for the body builder- as well as the weight-lifter. It is in this atomsphere of “muscular environment” that the weightlifting team assembles, day after day, under the watchful eye and expert guidance of Father Lange, ably assisted by the volunteer-aid of some of the older student weight-lifters.
Although the dozen or so boys who now form the basis for the team have been ♦ training for at least a year or two, still another year of progressive workouts is required before they will be ready for collegiate competition. Next year Father Lange expects to have a team comparable to the best college teams in the country. And if the steady, strenuous workouts, now being faithfully adhered to, by the team, is any indication, it will be among the best. A series of scheduled meets with Michigan, Michigan State, Chicago, Purdue and other college and “Y” teams in this locality, is being planned by Father Lange.
Two Outstanding Lifters
Among the two outstanding lifters now in training for competition are Charley Meyers, a 170-lb. light-heavyweight, whose last two years of hard work with the heavy iron is beginning to show in the smooth form and lightning-like coordination of his lifts, which now total over 600 lbs., and Joe Helwig the team’s herculean-heavyweight, now pushing the 250-lb. mark in his military press. Along with others who will be lifting for a berth on the team are Bob Raymond in the heavyweight class, Louis Polman and Aaron Dyson, light-heavy
25
weights, Bob Karl and George Otott in the middleweight division, and Frank Ang, Ted Broscoe and Maynard Cush, lightweights. William Burke and Jerry Adler, both middleweights, are recent additions to the team, and show considerable promise.
Six Weight Classes
The team will be composed of six weight classes; bantamweight, up to 123 lbs.; featherweight, from 124 to 132 lbs.; lightweight from 133 to 148 lbs.; middleweight, from 149 to 165 lbs.; light-heavyweight, from 166 to 181 lbs.; and heavyweight, 182 plus. The lifter with the highest total poundage for the three Olympic lifts, in each weight class, wins
Bob Raymond, heavyweight lifter, grunts and groans as he totes 400 pounds.
his class championship. The qualifying totals for each weight class beginning with bantamweight are: 350, 450, 520, 550, 580, and 610 lbs.
Present plans call for Notre Dame’s first official weightlifting meet to be held sometime in May. In this intrasquad meet the ND barbell men will have their first dress rehearsal prior to the collegiate meets being planned for next year. Trophies will be given all first-place winners of each weight class. At present there are many openings on the team for newcomers; a most desperate need at this time is for the lighter weights up to 132 lbs. Father Lange, as well as members of the team, urges anyone who has had experience in weightlifting, or even desires to learn the sport, to stroll over to his “muscle shop” on any weekday before 4:30 p.m. and acquaint himself with the greatest all-around strength and health-building sport known throughout the world.
26
Dillon Bounces Back
Dillon Hall bounced back from last week’s defeat by Morrissey to triumph over Alumni, 7-0.
Dillon capitalized on a fumble by Alumni on the first play of the game, taking over on the Alumni 12-yard line. Two plays netted only four yards and they were set back to the 23 by a fifteen-yard penalty. Then, on fourth down, Nester faded back and fired a pass to Pat Hanifin who raced across to score. Jack McGroder’s place kick was good. Play bogged down - as neither team threatened seriously - the rest of the half.	- _
Alumni came fighting back in the second half. Spearheaded by Soisson’s accurate tosses they moved to the Dillon 28, but the Dillon defense tightened and they took over- on downs. This was the last time either team was in scoring position. The remaining part of the game saw only short gains, due to ineffective downfield blocking.
The victors were led on offense by the outstanding play of McGroder and Harbert who consistently picked up yardage. Layden and Hanifin were the defensive stalwarts.
Soisson of the losers displayed fine passing ability although unable to connect for a touchdown. The line back
Action in the Interhall game between Dillon and Alumni won by the Senior Hall 7-0.
The Scholastic
ing of Cotton was outstanding and Moroun was a standout on defense in the Alumni secondary.—John Cox
Zahm Upsets Cavanaugh
Zahm’s well-drilled frosh pulled the upset of the still-young season last Friday night as they dumped Cav- -anaugh 13-7. Pierce Walsh scored both of the Zahm tallies on line smashes. Cavanaugh’s lone score came on a desperation pass on the last play of the first half, a toss from Sheldon Jones to Bill McClancy. The pass traveled thirty yards, and McClancy outstepped the Zahm tacklers for forty more and a touchdown.
Zahm showed a vastly improved line and a powerful ground attack, while Cavanaugh went nowhere rushing, and none too far through the air.
Both of the Zahm scores came immediately after long gains. The first was set up by a pass from quarterback Tom Larsen to end Jack Dillenschnei-der. Jim Malooly set the stage for the second with a fifty-yard Sitkoesque dash.
The Zahm victory sends their division into a real scramble. Farley now leads the league, and plays Zahm next
(Continued on Page 33)	. '

Opponents
(Continued from Page 21) heels, who will meet the Irish in Yankee Stadium on Nov. 12, it was their first regular season defeat since 1947. Their record now stands at four wins and this lone setback.
Out on the coast, in a struggle to stay in Rose Bowl contention, Southern Cali-fornia, guests here on Nov. 26, trounced jr Oregon, 40-13.
At Dallas, Southern Methodist, responding to the call to “win one for Doak,” overcame a 7-6 intermission deficit to whip Kentucky’s eighth-ranking Wildcats, 20-7. With Walker inactive due to influenza, Kyle Rote understudied him expertly by scoring twice and continually holding the Blue Grass delegation at bay with his booming punts. In bounc-A back from their defeat by Rice two V'7 weeks ago, the Mustangs captured their third win, while the Colonels suffered their first loss in six contests.
Notre Dame’s past opponents split in four games. At Bloomington, Indiana’s Hoosiers scored a spectacular upset by routing the previously unbeaten Pitt Panthers, 48-14. Washington dropped a 21-7 verdict to the Pacific Conferenceleading California Bears. It was the fifth consecutive defeat for the Huskies. Illinois spoiled Purdue’s homecoming day festivities by handing the Boilermakers their fourth loss of the season, 19-0. At New Orleans, still-jittery Tulane was able to eke out a 14-6 victory over a weak Auburn squad. Price, Ernst, and Kinek looked good in this one.
Tomorrow, the Notre Dame-Navy battle in Baltimore will draw a capacity crowd to Babe Ruth Stadium. At Ease Lansing, Michigan State will have a light scrimmage with Temple in prepara-tion for next Saturday’s clash with the r Irish. North Carolina will entertain Tennessee at Chapel Hill, Iowa will meet Oregon in an intersectional clash at Iowa City, and Southern California will journey to Seattle to battle Washington’s Huskies. Down Dallas way. Southern Methodist will encounter its third tough opponent in succession as they fight it out with the Texas Longhorns for the Lone Star State supremacy.
Won Lost Tied
Indiana ............... 14	0
Washington ............ 15	0
Purdue ................ 14	0
Tulane ................ 4	10
Navy .................. 2	3	0
Michigan State ........ 4	10
North Carolina ........ 4	10
Iowa .................. 3	2	0
Southern California ....... 3	11
Southern Methodist ........ 3	10
26	23	1
HEROES OF PAST
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By RAY FITZGERALD
If the president of the A. & P. gave up his position to become manager of a corner grocery in Mishawaka you’d wonder if the guy was working on all cylinders. Ex-Notre Darner Adam Walsh did the same sort of thing in 1947 when he voluntarily went from the big-time football of the Los Angeles Rams to the small-time football of Bowdoin College. But to distinguished - looking Adam Walsh, Bowdoin was home, and that’s what counted.
He had been first hired as head football coach at the little Maine school in 193-5, and from the start had loved the place. In 1944, Bowdoin didn't have 11 husky men on the entire campus, so they called a halt to intercollegiate football .until the war was over. Walsh, like most people, had to eat, so he got himself another job—assistant coach to Ed (He of the Smile) McKeever, right here at Notre Dame. The next year he took over as coach of the National League’s Cleveland Rams. The Rams won the league championship and Walsh was named professional coach of the year. But the owners lost money, so the franchise was moved to Los Angeles. The franchise is still at Los Angeles, but Adam Walsh is back up in the hills of Maine—and that’s where he wants to be.
Walsh was captain of the Four Horse-men-Seven Mule combination of 1924, and was a unanimous choice for All-American center that year. In fact, the late Jim Costin of the South Bend Tribune rates Adam as his all-time Notre Dame center. And a lot of good boys have snapped back the leather for the Irish.
Walsh, in filling out a questionnaire sent to him recently by the Notre Dame publicity office, said, “In 1924 I swore I would starve to death before I would coach football, and I haven’t been doing anything but both ever since.” The starving part might.be just a little exaggerated but the coaching isn’t. Besides the positions mentioned above. Adam has been head football coach at Santa Clara, assistant coach at Yale and assistant coach at Harvard. He also was line coach of the Eastern squad that gave the uninitiated at the 1948 Olympics a demonstration of how football should be played.
While at Yale, Adam became a life member of Mauri’s, where the Whiffen-poofs dwell. He is also a member of the Football Coaches Association, and is on
the regional selection board for the Football Hall of Fame. However, Adam has never held any political offices. He says he gets into enough trouble just coaching.
Married to an Oklahoma girl in 1925, Adam has three children, two boys and a girl. The two boys played prep school football, but because of injuries couldn’t participate in college athletics.
Hunting and fishing take up most of his off season time. He says he goes after anything from smelts to tuna, from rabbit to bear. Coaching at Bowdoin he’ll never be able to go after a national championship, but that doesn’t bother Adam Walsh. He’ll just keep pointing the boys for the big games with Bates and the IL of Maine, and the sleepless nights will be very few.
Primitive and Renaissance Paintings in Library Exhibit
An unusual group of Primitive and Renaissance paintings from the collection of Mr. Henri E. Nelson of Chicago, President of the Elgin Tool Works, has been placed on exhibition in the Art Gallery of .the University of Notre Dame.
Among the notable examples are a Madonna and Child With Saints by Christofani Buonamico (1262-1351). Others are a Madonna and Child of exquisite workmanship by Benvenuto di Giovanni (1436-1518), and a Madonna and Child With Saint and Angels from the Studio of Bernardo Daddi.
Of specia'l interest is a painting Christ Bearing the Cross by Andres Mexia, a Spanish primitive painter of the 15th Century, of whose work only a few examples have survived. The Blessed Saviour by the Luna-Master is another rare example of Spanish primitive painting of the 15th Century. The name of this master, who; influenced El Greco, has been forgotten, but his known paintings are night scenes illuminated by moonlight.
The early German painters are represented by A Princess and Her Son by Lucas Cranach the Elder, which is -dated 1537, and a magnificent portrait of Johann Friedrich, Duke Palatine of Saxony, by Christoph Amberger, which was painted about 1550. This painting was formerly in the Liechtenstein Gallery at Vienna.
A magnificent tondo Madonna and Child With Saints from the brush of Fiorentiono (1474-1500) is one of the outstanding masterpieces of the Nelson collection.
It is the intention of Mr. Nelson to add other rare and unusual paintings, from time to time, to this collection.
Oct. 28, 1949
27
Names Make News
Professor BERNARD WALDMAN explained how nuclear physics can be applied to metallurgy at a meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals recently in the Engineering auditorium. Professor Waldman was a member of the atomic bomb development project at Los Ala-mas, N. M., during the war. His talk followed the monthly dinner meeting of the group ...
A representative of the department of speech at Notre Dame, Professor FRANK W. KELLY, spoke before the post-graduate college of the American Legion in Indianapolis last Friday. The subject of Professor Kelly’s talk was “Public Speaking.” The program is for the training of national American Legion leaders . . .
Scheduled to appear before a Catholic inquiry school soon are Rev. PHILIP HANLEY, O.P., and Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, ph.d., professors of Theology at Notre Dame. The classes will be held in the Oliver Hotel every Thursday evening and are designed to eliminate religious misunderstanding . . .
Dr. KENNETH N. CAMPBELL, ph.d., professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, has been elected chairman of the division of medicinal chemistry of the American Chemical Society. During the war he was a consultant for the United States public health service and an official investigator for the national defense research committee. Dr. Campbell’s work has included research of
Matinees — 2:30 Evenings — 8:30 Extra Matinee Sat. & Sun. at 5:30
ggsiga
acetylenes, hydrogenation, and synthetic drugs . . .
Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, d.d., professor of apologetics at Notre Dame spoke Monday evening before the South Bend deanery, National Council of Catholic Women, in St. Matthew’s parish hall. Father O’Brien discussed his book, “The Road to Damascus,” classed among the 10 best sellers for the last two months. A new pamphlet, “Why Not Share the Faith?” also written by Father O’Brien, was published recently by the Paulist Press. The pamphlet shows lay people how they can bring Christ’s teachings closer to the churchless people of the United States . . .
After losing its first two games, Kings College football team, directed by DICK RILEY, won its second consecutive game last week. Riley is athletic director and head football coach at Kings . . .
The Rev. PETER O’REILLY, a Research Fellow in the Mediaeval Institute and a member of the teaching staff of the Department of Philosophy, is writing a critical edition of St. Thomas’ commentary on the De Hebdomadibus of Boethius and an index of the concordance type to St. Thomas’ Contra Gentiles and De Ente et Essentia. The eminent Hungarian scholar and authority on mediaeval university education, Rev. ASZTRIK L. GABRIEL, o.praem., who joined the faculty of Notre Dame two years ago as a Professor in the Mediaeval Institute, is writing a mono-
NOW SHOWING
Ending November 2
Students and Faculty $1.00 at all times
graph on the Ave Maria College in' Paris in the Thirteenth Century which will appear in Publications in Mediaeval Studies, University of Notre Dame, of which the Rev. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, is editor . . .
Next Sunday Rev. CORNELIUS LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., will be kept busy 9 speaking. In the afternoon he will be one of the principal speakers on the I annual Polish day program to be presented at 2:30 p.m. in St. Casimir’s auditorium. At 8:15 p.m. he will introduce Helena Morsztyn, who will present a program of interpretation of Chopin’s music. The concert is sponsored by the Chopin Fine Arts club. Father Laskowski is a former moderator of the club . . .
—P
Dr. JAMES F. KERWIN, senior chemist at Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, has been promoted to the post of assistant head of the Organic Chemistry Section of the firm.
Dr Kerwin received his B.S. and Ph. D. degrees from Notre Dame and worked as a research assistant here before joining the Philadelphia pharmaceutical house . . .
“Football Capital or Intellectual Community” is the title of an article about Notre Dame written by DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN in the Oct. 14th issue of Couvmomoeal. In it Dr. Gurian praises the intellectual achievements of the University, says they excel the athletic.
New WND Record Program Is Aired Sunday Mornings *'•
WND has added a new three-hour record show to its Sunday broadcasting schedule, to be aired from 9 a.m. till noon.
The “Concert Hour” will now be heard from 8:30 to 9 a.m. and the “Sunday Special” will be aired from 8 to 8:30 a.m.
Beginning tomorrow night, WND will present “live music” from the Palais Royale ballroom in South Bend from 9:30 to 10:15 p.m. Plans are also under ■*’' way to broadcast Griff Williams’ music at the Sophomore Cotillion.
The new campus variety show “Rehearsal in Studio B” made its initial appearance last Wednesday and featured female vocalist, Pat May. The program was produced in the music room of Washington Hall but future shows will originate in the WND studios, thanks to the recent purchase of a piano for the station.
2«
The Scholastic -
Herb Germann's Band To Play for Law Ball
Following a precedent set during previous years, the Law club will sponsor its annual Law Ball on Friday evening, Nov. 18. Tom Nelson, president of the Law club, has announced ^that Vince Scully and Gene Mathews Jr'are general chairmen of the dance.
The formal will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the main ball room of the Indiana club on the night before the Iowa game.
Herb Germann and “The Aristocrats" will serve their famous “'musical dishes.” “Germann’s band is the same orchestra which was so popularly acclaimed at last year’s ball,” remarked ^Ed Coleman, chairman of the band committee.
Bids, which are five dollars, will go on sale Nov. 1. In charge of ticket sales are Meyer Kroopneck and Wilmer McLaughin.
Ed Roswadowski and Dick Heyl will super-vise decorations, while Art Curran and Al Richter will head the program committee. Refreshments will be handled by Louis Mustico and Bob Murray.
Economic Round Table Meets
At their regular meeting held last week in Clark’s Restaurant, members of the Economic Roundtable heard a talk by Tom McEvily on the Taft-Hartley Labor Law. Discussion following was led by Larry Clark, chairman for the evening. Other business of the meeting concerned the possibility of having a paper and discus-sion delivered over WND, the campus / radio station. A joint meeting with St.
Mary’s was also planned.
In yesterday’s meeting, John T. Murphy gave a paper on Socialized Medicine, following which the usual discussion was held by Roundtable members.
•Whistling1
(Continued from Page 9) J. Hanley, director of the play, believes the whole production will be in tip-top shape for the first performance. “Everyone has worked hard and long,” he said, “and the results so far have been quite satisfying. It should be a good play.”
Pat McAteer will head the cast of characters, in the leading role of Wallace Porter, diminutive crime novelist, who becomes entangled in a nest of gangsters. Jo Ann Smith, wife of a Vetville student, has the feminine lead, playing Toby Van Buren, Porter’s pert
Oct. 28, 1949
little fiancee, who furnishes many laughs in the play.
Eleanor Thompson and Rosemary Donnelly are the two other Vetville wives in the play. Mrs. Thompson will be Rosa, the Portuguese woman who mopes around with a scowl and doesn’t have much to say; Mrs. Donnelly will be the Operator. Slim Scanlan, a nervous, fairly intelligent, and thoroughly unpleasant gangster will be played by Larry McDermott. Jack Powell will play Jake Dillon, the gangster “boss,” and Lou Garippo will portray Joe Sal-' vatore, a thick-witted Italian.
Leo Blaber will be seen in the role of Cap O’Rorke, and Jim Maher will play the part of Benny, another thug. Mickey Connell will enact the role of Herman Lefkowitz, a dapper- Jew; Gangster Charlie Shaw will be Otis Jordan, and Neil O’Reagan will play the Cossack, a chauffeur.
James Beymer, a veteran of stage direction for the University theater, will be stage manager for Whistling in the Dark. William Doyle will be house manager for the four performances, and Phoebe Stapleton, another Vetvil-lager, wall be property manager. Ushers will be members of the Blue Circle.
Whistling in the Dark is a clever and intriguing play. It has moments of fun and laughter and moments of equally effective suspense. It was a rousing success on Broadway -when it first appeared in 1932, and members of the University Theater hope it w-ill be a rousing success when it hits the boards of Washington Hall next Tuesday.
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices ... reduce tongue bite ... give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY RNE QUAUTYJ Specially selected imported briar Pipes.
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... A Also Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar (fl) Pipe
Frank Medico Ggarette Holders H & *2
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
S. M. Frank & Co., Inc. • Fifth Avanuo. Now York 2z
^>t. Joint's Wnibersiitp &ci)ool of l.ato
Approved by American Bar Association Member of Association of American Law Schools
Three year day and four year evening courses leading to degree LL.B. (Summer Sessions conducted)
Next entering class—February, 1950
Law School Admission Test—November 12, 1949’
Application to take Test must be filed ten days in advance with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
Further information may be obtained from REGISTRAR—
St. John’s University School of Law
96 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn 2, New York
29
sistently high quality and fine flavor of
Beech-Nut
GUM
"rfAvays %efres/f/ng"
Music
By JIM BRETT
Dinah Shore, the “Buttons and Bows” girl, is currently up with Dear Hearts and Gentle People done in her bouncing “buck-board” manner. On Columbia record number 38605 this ditty is expected to be Dinah’s biggest hit in quite some time. Perry Como has teamed up with the Fontaine Sisters and Mitch Ayre’s orchestra for a waxing of I Want to Go Home. Perry has recently been named top male vocalist in the United States, and this disk should be another vote cast in his direction. Art Mooney and his songfest crowd are stealing a little of Al Jolson’s thunder in their tinkling rendition of Toot, Toot, Tootsie on MGM number 10548. Of course Al’s arrangement is also available on Decca 24108.
Wonders will never cease. Words have been written for the old favorite Canadian Capers and it is being done by none other than our golden haired songstress Doris Day. This is on Capitol 57-742 with It’s Better to Conceal Than Reveal on the flipover. Bluebird on Your Windowsill on Columbia 38611 is another of Miss Day’s new releases, which may soon be perched on the top of the musical hit parade. Another young lady, named Fran Warren, has also been getting a bit of attention lately on her recording of Envy on RCA Victor 20-3551. And to leave the women alone for a moment, Dick Haynies is doing some crooning on You’re the Cause of It All and Let Me Groiv Old With You. Back to the women — it seems all the garls are
EXECUTIVE CAREERS IN RETAILING
One-year Course leads to Master’s Degree
turning cowgirl; first Margaret Whiting and now Jo Stafford. Jo is taking us on a melodious ride through another of our favorites, the Red Rivet Valley, on Capitol record numbei 57-742. But Vaughn Monroe, who recently did a bit of Ghostriding is definitely out of the west in his etching of a number called Vieni Su.
Ah yes, we have good news this week for all woodpeckers — real or otherwise. A decision handed down recently in a California court, ruled that the use of the Woody Woodpecker laugh in the comedy song did not violate any copyright held by Mel Blanc, originator of the laugh in question. Thus Mr. Blanc lost his $250,000 suit against the illegal use of “Woody,” and so all you South Bend woodpeckers may now cackle to your heart’s delight.
Those who enjoyed the album I Can Hear It Now by Edward R. Murrow on Columbia records, featuring the great men and events of our modern history, should be interested in part two of this album which is now being edited by Mr. Murrow in connection with Jap Gude and Fred Friendly. The first part is the top seller among classical albums, and the new edition should be a favorite for Christmas.
Giles to Head Texans
The Texas Club reconvened last week for the election of officers. John Giles was elected president. Bill Johnson, vice-president; Bernard Smith, correspondence secretary; Bill Lamn, recording secretary; and Dick Sullivan, treasurer, complete the organization’s list of officers.
All Texans are invited to attend future meetings of the club.
• Prepare to step into a responsible executive position in the retailing field: buying, advertising, fashion, personnel. Specialized training, exclusively for college graduates, covers merchandising, personnel management, textiles, store organization, sales promotion, and all phases of store activity. Realistic approach under store-trained faculty. Classes are combined with paid store work. Students are usually placed before graduation. Co-educational. Master’s degree. Limited enrollment. Write Admissions Office for Bulletin C.
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR RETAH TRAINING
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH . Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
30
The Scholastic
I i
Chicago
(Continued from Page 19)
piece of dramaturgy that really syringes the heart. The story of a ( man who sees his dreams fall apart, it is moving in every respect. The taxing role of the salesman was created in New York by Lee J. Cobb. Thomas i Mitchell essays it in Chicago and has !'	received unqualified raves for his in-
■	terpretation. Rarely will you see a
’ production so well integrated. Jo Miel-ziner’s poetic sets and lighting flow with the dialogue. Above all others, see this!
'Salesman' Thomas Mitchell
At War With the Army, with its original cast, opened last Sunday after a moderately successful run in New York. It’s a wacky comedy about life in an Army basic camp and was first W produced at Yale, having been written W by a Yale grad student. Loud and 7 rough, it’s fairly good.
New Shows Get Raves
On Nov. 1 Detective Story by Sidney Kingsley is scheduled to open. Chester Morris and a handful of unknowns make up the cast. The plot is slight in this play but the incredible characterizations that Kingsley has created are wonderful. The Detroit critics, •	where the show is now priming, have
Jr*	lauded it with a ream of raves. Even
7 though the language is often very of-- fensive, the discriminating theater-goer will find it engrossing entertainment.
A week later, on Nov. 7, Madeleine Carroll will hit Chicago in Fay Kanin’s comedy, Goodbye, My Fancy. Although this play was received in New York with luke-warm reviews, Miss Carroll garnered high words of praise for her emoting. It concerns a Congresswoman ■few
Oct. 28, 1949
who returns to her Alma Mater and the love affairs that follow. Some pinkish propaganda is shrewdly slipped in between the lines.
So there’s just a starter. The ensuing months of the year should bring a host more of hits to the Loop. Entertainment seekers (after the run-of-the-mill tripe that hits South Bend movie palaces) should find happy hunting grounds in all of these presentations. Prices and other important data can be found in Chicago papers.
Windy City’s Night Life
But the night life — that famous night life. State Street isn’t famous for its Induction Board alone! Some of the gang head for the College Inn at the Sherman, some for the Empire Room of the Palmer House, some for the Gold Coast. There are as many spots to hit as there are minutes in ar hour, but you’ll be thankful the 35 hours (legal) won’t permit you to hit ’em all.
As for food, Chicago has almost as many foreign eateries as the Soho. Louis George’s, Ireland’s, The Cork, * Old Heidelberg. They’re good and there are many more like them. Take your pick. If you end up eating in a Chicago version of South Bend’s Wal-green’s, that’s your own fault.
When Sunday night comes rolling ’round and the Recall is sounded, you’re dog tired. The trip back is boisterous; the tales told, many. Horseplay continues on the bus up the avenue, subsiding only long enough to sign in. You trip over your roommate’s shoes and crash noisily into the chair thoughtfully placed in the middle of the room. The narrative given to the guy in the upper bunk is short and punctuated with yawns. Yeah, the weekend in Chi was great. This bed feels wonderful...
Sophomore Cage Prospect Still Confined to Hospital
Floyd Blair, injured in varsity basketball practice last week, is still in St. Joseph’s Hospital this week. Word from the officials there has varied considerably; during the past week, he has been reported as “fair” and “critical.”
Blair suffered a head injury when he collided with a teammate last week. At the time, the squad members were limbering up with a medicine ball.
A six-foot five-inch center*, Blair was one of the promising sophomore candidates. He played football for the freshmen gridders last fall, but concentrated on the cage sport since last spring. Floyd was an all-around athlete in his home town, Jordan, N. Y.
Going to the DANCE?
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES No Deposits for Students
Tuxedos $6.75 Full Dress $9.00 All sizes: Shorts. Stouts,
Regulars. Longs. Extra-Longs
Free Alterations for Personal Satisfaction
LOGAN
107 North Main Street
Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
31
LAST CHANCE SUPPER . .
Come to PAP ANDREA’S on Thursday Nites for a special Swiss Steak for only one dollar. Have a good meal to hold you over until Saturday . .
Papandrea Spaghetti House
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903



€>
*
O
o
Noted Constitution Expert To Address Law Institute
Dr. Edward S. Corwin, former governmental consultant on constitutional problems, has accepted an invitation to address the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held Dec. 9 and 10 at Notre Dame, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, said yesterday.	-
Dr. Corwin, a noted authority on the i . Supreme Court and the Constitution of ’ the United States, retired in 1946 from the McCormick professorship of jurisprudence at Princeton University, a post he had filled for 28 years. The topic of his address will be “the Natural Law and Constitutional Law.”
In 1935 Dr. Corwin was the advisoi' on constitutional questions to the Public Works Administration. He was appointed in 1937 as special assistant to -the Attorney General of the United ' States on constitutional questions. He ' is the author of such works as The Twilight of the Supreme Court, The Constitution and What It Means Today, and Liberty Against Government.
Stanford's Dr. Ogg to Open Reilly Chemistry Lectures
Dr. Richard A. Ogg, Jr., Professor of Chemistry at Stanford University, will begin the 1949 Peter C. Reilly lecture series with three addresses next week in the Biology auditorium.
The first lecture is scheduled for 8 p.m. Monday and the subject will be “Kinetics of the Gas Phase Reactions of Higher Oxides of Nitrogen.” On Wednesday at 4 p.m. Dr. Ogg will discuss “Reactions of Excited Fragments From Primary Photodissociation.” “Electronic Processes in Liquid Dielectric Media” * is the subject of the final lecture on Thursday at 8 p.m.
“Z’m beginning to catch why Homer rates the balcony sessions!”
Vil)
Homer knows his way around. Because he knows Philip Morris is the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand.
That’s why there’s No Cigarette Hangover when you smoke Philip Morris.
, No Other Cigarette k Can Make That Statement!
s PHILIP MORRIS


FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
32
The Scholastic 0*1
Beauticians
(Continued from Page 11)
sure they won’t be back digging in the same spot a year or two later.
Keeping the grass presentable is the ground crew’s biggest problem. During retreats, especially the big ones in August, the lawn in front of the grotto becomes a field of beaten clay. (Mike is proud of the football crowds, though, who he says are “well behaved.”) Apart from the grotto it’s not so much the people walking on the grass that kills it as it is the constant fight with the big trees for nourishment. He pointed out that on the new campus lawns with small trees the grass thrives, but on the old campus the big trees usually win the battle, and the lawns show it. Sometimes they have to remove a big tree to give the new grass a chance to get started.
Underwater Raking Job
Dragging the lake is one of the most unusual tasks of the ground crew; this isn’t done more than two or three times every ten years, and is quite a big job, but it always pays off in fish, hundreds of which are scooped up with ,	the tons of leaves and weeds. Two men
’	with a row boat and long cable do the
j job in short notice — considering the A	size of	the lakes.
['	Jf .	.
P Spring is the ground crew’s favorite J	season.	Although	there	is	more	gi’ass
to be planted and	more water	trenches
> to be dug, the fruits of their Winter work are seen all around them. And (	in the spring Mike’s favorite trees, the
|	magnolias, bloom and the well-trimmed
I	lilacs start making it hard for Spring
■	fever victims to concentrate on their
i	studies. Then the students and visitors
A ' begin to appreciate Mike Mozer and his ' M	crew for the important part they have
I	in helping nature keep Notre Dame “one
of the country’s most beautiful campuses.”
Interhall
(Continued from Page 26)
week. Cavanaugh, rated by pre-season forecasts the team to beat, will meet a tough B-P eleven.
Farley Drops St. Ed’s, 7-0
A high-spirited Farley crew took advantage of a first quarter fumble to blank a game St. Ed’s team, 7-0.
Recovering a St. Ed’s fumble on their 23, the Farley boys wasted but three plays before Dave Ahlering skirted his own left end for the six-pointer. Farley then ran the extra
point to provide the margin of victory.
Determined to avenge the count, St. Ed’s took the kickoff and drove to the Farley 22 where penalties and time throttled their thrust. The precision arm of quarterback Joe Schmidt sparked the attack.
St. Ed’s spent most of the second half driving for Farley’s goal. However, lack of blocking and penalties bogged down their goalward push on the Farley 27. It was at this spot that Vic Riley, Farley back, turned in the prettiest run of the day. Taking a handoff on a quick opener, he snakehipped his way into the St. Ed secondary, cut to the sideline and romped to St. Ed’s 23 where he and his mates lost the ball on downs.
Desperation passes by St. Ed’s in the waning seconds proved to no avail as time ran out and Farley walked off the victors.—Jack Keane
Council
(Continued from Page 9) immortal Four Horsemen have all signified their intention to be here for that game. This season marks the 25th anniversary of the last year at Notre Dame for the backfield which rode roughshod over all opposition.
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. AH clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office-
3 First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes eac
4. Enterasmanyasyoulike.butoneChesterfieldwrapperorfactimilemustaccompanjr each entry-5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.	•
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8 Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS 4 WINNERS
A The thirteen slabs of wood which form the letters ABC at the bottom of the ad. Always Buy Chesterfield, the best cigarette for you.
B Three buttons on the left sleeve of Alexis Smith’s cowgirl suit, and one button on the right. Also three cigarettes protruding from the pack on the left, and one in the mo«h of L. E. Turnage on the right. Both answers are white and right.
C FIELD, that is, Chesterfield. It’s in the name, and in the frame where we see a picture of a field behind Mr. Turnage. And in the frame we grow the name, that is, in the field we grow Chesterfield.	'
All away-from-home football game movies will be shown again this year, it was decided. Each Thursday at 3:15 p.m. a game movie will be shown in the Engineering building auditorium, beginning with the Washington game. Bill Bradley, last year’s operator, will run the films again this year.
Flower Sales on Campus
The sale of flowers on campus for all formal dances will be handled by a committee appointed by the Student Council. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, who attended the meeting, concurred with the Council in its plan to provide convenient flower service to the student body.
A request by the Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., for funds from the Council for the Married Student Welfare Fund was turned over to a Council waysand-means committee.
NO CLASS TUESDAY
In observance of the Feast of All Saints classes will not be held Tuesday. The Mass schedule in Sacred Heart Church will be the same as on Sundays.	‘
❖ ❖
❖ ❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
* ❖ ❖ ❖
♦
33
Oct. 28, 1949
Roughly Speaking by Ken Zhoren
Swing Your Pardncr
City-bred slickers and farmers alike turned out by the score last Saturday night for the senior-sponsored Barn Dance in the Drill Hall. The general concensus was that a better time hadn’t been had in a coon’s age. Several hundred crowded into the nautical barn for quadrilles, Vi rgi n i a reels and even some
high falutin’ modern stuff.
Everything came off perfectly. The small hill-billy combo couldn’t have been more yokel if they had sucked on straw. Miss Aarons, a Phy Ed instructor over at St. Mary’s, should be awarded a lusty round of applause for the fine job she did in instructing the squares on how to do the dances.
It was amazing how easy they were to catch on to. It wasn’t too long before the couples were advancing far beyond the original instructions. It was quite a sight to see the huge hall swirling with laugh-happy circles.
Most of the ND crowd turned up in plaid shirts and blue overalls. St. Mary’s girls never looked better than in their casual sweaters and skirts.
The atmosphere of the entire hoedown was relaxed and friendly. At least a dozen times we heard the remark: “Why don’t they have these more often,” And we reiterate, why don’t we?
The only heavy expense was the refreshment bill. The seniors doled out cider and doughnuts free of charge. The fact that there weren’t any decorations didn’t faze anyone in the least. So it seems as though the expense account shouldn’t worry any future sponsor too much.
Whenever there’s a lag in social activities why couldn’t one of these affairs be tossed? The fact that they’re generally connected with the Fall isn’t any reason why they couldn’t be given ;in ■another season. For informality, friendliness and fun, a barn dance can’t be heat.
Disappointing Coverage
Although this week’s editorial takes care of the primary criticism concerning last week’s Life layout on the Tulane game, we have a further point to
34
make. The magazine’s crew invaded the campus on Friday. They covered every crack and corner, clicking their pics as they went. Out of their 300-odd pictures is seems as though they’d have gotten a more comprehensive story of what a Notre Dame football weekend is like.
The fact that they devoted the entire article to the team is not what rubbed us the wrong way. It only seems that there’s more to the weekend (for an article of this type) than just the game. The tremendous spirit displayed at the pep rally, the support of the student section at the game and the colorful crowd on the campus were all a part of the weekend. On the whole, we think Life missed the boat. Perhaps they were hoping for that upset too much. Whatever their reasons, they accomplished a poor job. A football weekend at Notre Dame is still to be done creditably. Let’s hope some national magazine takes care of this matter before too long.
Nice People
Lots of critical words are said against sundry characters around these parts but little mention is given to some of the more pleasant ones. This week we’d like to acknowledge a few of them. For one, there are the women who work in the Huddle. No matter how busy they get they are always friendly and generous with their smiles. This is a tough feat around lunch hour, but that doesn’t stop them.
Then there are the maids. For the most part they’re also a congenial lot. They’ve got to put up with plenty but they manage to do a darn good job in making the rooms liveable. Some are real finds and have a line of chatter that gives the day a bright lift.
The maintenance men are another crew that can’t be forgotten. Although generally deep in their work and too busy to speak, they nonetheless are always ready to give a welcomed hello. The women in the chow halls are like that too. Some have a remarkable memory for faces and never let you go through the lines without saying a few nice words. It’s people like these whom you appreciate.
Attention Clubs
Heretofore the National Federation of Catholic College Students has meant
little to Notre Dame. The students have been conspicuously lacking in interest in this fine organization. This year, however, the chance to take more active part is being presented to the University.
Next week local NFCCS representatives, Jim Garvin and Ed Farrell, are to hold an organization meeting which will be open to all interested students, and in particular, to the campus clubs. These clubs will have the opportunity to affiliate themselves with the national set-up, thereby contributing to the functioning of the worth-while organization. Much can be gained by working with the NFCCS, so let’s hope Notre Dame will finally show itself.
(Advertisement)
Wins Beginner’s Confidence at Arthur Murray’s	>
Attractive Vivian Marnctt is especially good with shy people. In almost no time she teaches them the secret of confident, carefree dancing.
ARTHUR MURRAY, 120 E. Wayne Above Copp’s Music Shop
NOW FEATURING
A grand showing of MUSICAL POWDER JARS playing The Notre Dame
Victory March $8.95 and up
Come in and visit with us. We carry the finest assortment of all nationally known makes of watches and fine gift items. We maintain an efficient watch and jewelry repair department that is famous for high quality workmanship.
Student Charge Accounts Welcomed
111 South Michigant St.
The Scholastic +
Tbe Juggler
? of NOTRE DAME
Legend
|k| OW above the altar was carved the statue of Madame St. ■ Mary and this minstrel did come before this image right humbly.
Sweet Lady, said he, scorn not the thing I know, for with the help of God I will essay to serve you in good faith, even as I may. I cannot read your hours nor chant your praise, but at the least I can set before you what art I have.
Then commenced this minstrel his merry play, leaping low and small, tall and high, over and under. Then he knelt upon his knees before the statue, and meekly bowed his head.
Most gracious Queen, said he, of your pity and charity scorn not this my service.
Again he leaped and played, and for holiday and festival, made the somersault of Metz. Afterwards he did the Spanish vault, springing and bounding, then the vaults they love in Brittany, and did as best as he was able. Then he walked on his two hands, with his feet in the air, and his head near the ground.
Thus long did this minstrel leap and play, till at last, nigh fainting with weariness, he could stand no longer on his feet, but fell to his knees.
Lady, said he, I worship you with heart, with body, feet and hands, for this I can neither add to nor take away. Now I am your minstrel.
Then he smote upon his breast, he sighed and wept, since he knew no better prayer than tears, nor no better worship than his art. . .
Oct. 28, 1949

Notre Dame’s famed Literary Magazine
NOW ONLY
75c
A YEAR
Subscribe now through your Hall Agent or through Publications, Box 185.
35
TABOR CITY, N. C.
prints’
uggctt « i*ryr«$ tobacco co
and Mr. Lupo, Prominent
Tobacco Farmer, says
I like Chesterfields better than any
other cigarette. They’re definitely milder
They buy clear, clean, fully ripe tobacco
the best I’ve got to sell


GAZETTES
	
PaSe 55
See Ch*