Scholastic
Vol. 96 JANUARY 14, 1955 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ^.Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of V post age. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
^JOHN ADAMS ................  News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE .......  Copy
Charles McKendrick...............
..........	   Assistant	Copy DAVE COHEN  ......  Features
KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER   .... Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT ..... Photo	Editor
^PAUL FITZGERALD ..................
“	______ Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, John Boyle. Joe Connolly, Buck Harriss. Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Janies McDonald, John McMahon, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn. Dick Rust. Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early. Kit Eckl, John Glavin. Jim Goethals. Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan. Bob McDonald, Joe Norton. Bob Parnell, and Bob Ruhl.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
One of the midwest’s fine men’s stores
Our Cover—Once again the campus settles down to the somber task of preparing for finals. There’s always a lot of joking about the guys who goof off during the exam vigils . . . Dave Discher and Tom Groden, a pair of seniors, in Alumni, are trying two different study methods. Photo by O’Brien.
809-817 So. Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
^January 14, 1955
3
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot. black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
w.„-35c kx s 98*
Dorms) 60 tablets —
NODOZ
AWA KE NE RS :
S -ce 1933	j
SAFE AS COFFEE
DRRW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ------
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED --------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
onw. Immediate delivery. Special ratae to students.
Free delivery, pick-up and service.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO.
309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone No. 2-3336
WMBli Mike Chatter
The last time this column was nestled all snug in its bed between the Aviation Mechanics Omnibus advertisement and some laxative promotion we dissected that particular animal known as the disk jockey. This week we’ll concern ourselves with that sub-phylum known as request announcer.
Chief among these is, of course, “Elaine of Notre Dame.” This sultry siren thrills the troops once weekly from 8:30 to 9 on Sunday evening. The actual title of her show is “Letters from Home” and the basic format of the show is made up of various and nefarious epistles sent her way from heartsick, or heartburned, females from various homefronts around the nation.
Of course it isn’t particularly the letters which give the necessary glamor to this show, but rather the tense torrid fashion in which the “Athena of the Airwaves” delivers these requests.
However, the saccharine-sweet sentimentality of this show approaches the point of rivaling that of April Stevens’ monosyllabic mumblings of many moons ago. Yet, this is what the troops enjoy, or at least what they write and say that they enjoy. As a matter of fact, the voices of opinion are quite enthusiastic concerning “Elaine of Notre Dame.”
As a matter of fact, they have been so enthusiastic that “Elaine’s” identity has been a most guarded secret. Three newscasters had to be sacrificed in order- to keep her anonymity a secret. As a safety measure she tape-records her broadcast from points unknown. Last week it came from the Gobi Desert, and it is rumored that this week’s broadcast should come from a batho-sphere located at the bottom of the Dead Sea.
A request show of a different type is John McCullough’s “Request Show” from 9 to 9:55 weekly. This show takes the requests as they come in from the halls around campus. As a sort of testament to the popularity of this portion of the programming day, we might state that it is almost invariably filled with requests before the program even goes on the air.
Likewise, it is the soft-spoken and personal style which John employs that gives this particular show one of the highest ratings in campus popularity. The song selection typifies the popular taste of the campus clientele of WNDU and almost without exception it proves to be an enjoyable listening hour.
—Bill Byrne
Fish, Steaks,Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.30
Joe Nabieht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
aidiias'
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Passengers Wanted
DRIVING FROM SOUTH BEND TO CHICAGO EVERY WEEK-END LEAVE South Bend about 5:30 p.m. Friday night. LEAVE Chicago about 9 p.m. Sunday night.
DICK JULIAN 311 WEST MARION STREET Phone 2-9249
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trefhewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
The Scholastic^
the week
;	by John O'Brien
Top of the WEEK
No finals for Seniors with 85 or better. . . .
After the Ball Is Over
Well, here we are again, back in the wastelands after another gala Christmas season . . . back in the comfy white bucks, the creaseless flannels and the snappy khakis, the dark mornings, icy blasts and . . . classes. But then, it’s a long time ’till finals . . . yeah, 159 hours. Guess it’s time to dust off the books and prepare for the worst. But there is a bright side to exam WEEK! Do you realize that with the exception of vacation periods, there is no time of the year that you are _	in class less? Consoling, isn’t it? By now all the term papers
▼should be finished (ha ha) and it won’t
be long before the lines start forming ----------------------------------------- at the Bookstore and spring comes and Easter’s here and more exams and
Yipee!! (you know what)
Low Overhead
During a weaker moment, I happened to come across an article in Sports Illustrated (the January 10th article for those of you who would like to go over to the library and read 'it) entitled “TV Money May Wreck College Athletics” by one Mr. Robert Hall. If we are to take him at his word, we are Brobdingnagians of football! Now it’s not that I object so much to having the above tongue twister applied to Notre Dame, as to the other insinuations made by one of the “fathers” of ye olde NCAA TV plan. For example the suggestion that nationwide TV of ND games would “hurt the country” by causing so many colleges to drop football that the armed forces would be short of physically fit young men. In reply to this, I would suggest that any young man who wants to be prepared to pass his physical should run around the block a few times, or maybe do a few pushups. How about guys who play football at these drinkwater colleges and get banged up so that they become 4F? Better cut that stuff out, Robert, you’re hurting the war effort, old boy. Funny thing, I keep associating that name “Robert Hall” with “low overhead” . . . guilt by association, I guess. (P.S. As far as I can ascertain, Brobdingnag-ian and Big Wheel are roughly synonymous)
Snow ... Snow ... Snow . .. Please?
Yes siree, step right up, the big day is here, get your tickets right
here for the ... St. Mary’s Winter Carnival . . . yeah, man! For those lucky few who were fortunate enough to wrangle invitations foi- the gala event, tomorrow is the big social splash (?) in the pond across the U.S. Highway 31 (fooled you, didn’t I). By now, the Novena for snow has ended, and just between you and me, this Florida boy is counting on a water show, just to be safe. I tried to enter the midget girls’ division of the Silver Skates Contest in Chicago, but they wouldn’t accept my application. So it’s a slushing we will go on the ’morrow. Word has crept out via the grapevine that the parlors will be closed tomorrow at old SMC. Seems that some of - our would-be Dick Buttons dashed in there with their skates on last year . . . rather hard on the carpets, from what I hear. So mind your manners, men, there are box lunches in store for one and all.
Happy Days Are Here Again
Those guys you see walking around the campus with the wide grins and smug looks on their faces have good reason . . . they’re Cleveland Browns fans. They say it was a long wait after the Series, but well worth it. The rest just scowl and say “Wait till next year.” With Dr. Sam and all, the Buckeyes are certainly keeping in the news. By the way, I wish I could be a brain surgeon at the age of 31. . . .
Inquiry
Just in passing, I wonder if anyone could give me the answer to a problem that has been bothering me ever since I went to the last dance in the Stu
dent Center . . . one called the Sno Ball. If you will notice on the second floor, in the side rooms, there is a marvelous supply of ash trays. Now on this particular night, upon seeing these receptacles, I was inspired to light up a cigarette. Others nearby liked the idea, and promptly asked for cigarettes. After all were well lighted up, a little man came ambling up, and without hesitating long enough for one more drag, presented us with an ash tray and whispered “No Smoking.” Ah, life’s darkest moment . . . four ciggies, four drags, then right in the bloom of life, snuffed out! Now I ask all you efficient administrators of the fire laws, why have ash trays and no smoking at the same time? It is broke we are going with your paradoxical regulations!
Definition
This one was overheard as a guy was trying to fold a handkerchief to put in his coat pocket for a big date: A senior is a guy with laundry marks on all four corners of his handkerchiefs ... on both sides. Many can claim two or three of ’em, but it’s a real sign of educational maturity if you’ve got all four.
Same Old Problem
Why is it that the holder of the winning ticket at the Senate Dances is always the bashful type? Seems that the poor emcee couldn’t seem to get the idea across to a recent winner that he was supposed to officially crown the queen with a kiss. Maybe they ought to hang some mistletoe on the microphone. . . .
Flub of the WEEK
Debutante, -at presentation ball, meeting West Point Cadet in full uniform:
“How do you do, do you go to Culver?”
“No, I am a student at West Point.” “Oh, are you a sophomore?”
“No, I am a senior,” was his terse reply.
This and That
We hear that there’s a phantom on the loose - - - strikes only at night, preys on empty buildings . . . warning all watchmen, don’t let any strangers in . . . other clues . . . likes to turn on the gas . . . that is all. . . .
The WEEK extends its best wishes to one and all in the upcoming exams . . . remember, it’s not whether you pass or fail, but how you play the game.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . next semester.
5
January 14, 1955
calendar
New Year’s Greetings to all you melancholy movie-goers out there, even if they are belated. Hollywood has plastered all its movie-promotion magazines with “the best movies ever” and “banner year” for the new crop of films to be released in the coming months. We made a New Year’s resolution to really call ’em as we see ’em but from the looks of things Hollywood is really gonna’ get creamed. So to liven things up, we’ve purchased a book on “cynicism to the nth degree” (it has ten pages of pictures featuring Marilyn Monroe in the Dior Look for ’55 and ten easy-to-follow exercises designed to put muscles in your forehead like Burt Lancaster’s). It also ran a feature on Jack (the knife) Palance: “You too can be handsome!” So to Daryl, Howard, Sam, and Cecil, the Calendar wishes the best of luck—you’ll need it.
JANUARY 14
WASHINGTON HALL—(8:15)—Players, Inc., on campus most of the week, makes with their finale tonight with a certain Would be Gentleman by Moliere. Get your tickets at the playhouse before the show.
COLFAX—(through the 21st)—for lovers of rockin’, sockin’ thrills and fancy gun slingin’, the management has held over Vera Cruz with “the Face” Douglas and “the Kid” Cooper. Bring youi- best girl—she’ll love you for it.
GRANADA—(through the 28th)—20,000 Leagues Under the Sea with Kirk Douglas and James Mason to mention a few. Douglas, his associates, and a squid track down world-saver Mason in his undersea paradise where he conceived Nautilus as his secret means of protecting man from the evils of gunpowder. The imagination, action, and color are incomparable.
PALACE—-(ends Jan. 17)—Bamboo Prison with Robert Francis and Diana Foster and Masterson of Kansas starring George Montgomery and Nancy Gates. Nobody knows who to trust in the first one and everybody knows too much about anybody in the next. I suggest three boxes of popcorn for this one—for kicks.
AVON—(ends Jan. 21)—The Barefoot Contessa starring H. B. and A. G. Like we said way back in November when this was supposed to have shown, this manners and morals film is handled in strictly adult fashion. It’s all about a night club entertainer who is made overnight into a successful movie star by an alcoholic director and her subsequent fight for satisfaction from life. A Freudian delight.
ST. MARY’S POND—(at twilight)—Local eskimos (and their loyal huskies) who dared the Arctic blasts to make the crossing those wintry weeks before Christmas finally receive their dividends and will join the lovely lasses for an evening of (ha ha ha) ice skating, cold box suppers, and cheek to cheek melodically syncopated perambulations—you lucky dogs!
JANUARY 16
RIVER PARK—(ends Jan. 18)—Broken Lance and It Should Happen to You. Spencer Tracy and Judy Holiday are worth re-seeing in these.
JANUARY 18
PALACE—(ends Jan. 20)—River Beat and Terror Street—two tales well calculated to keep you ... on campus.
JANUARY 19
RIVER PARK—ends Jan. 22)—Demetrius and the Gladiators and The Saint’s Girl Friday. I don’t know; exams start in two days.
JANUARY 21
COLFAX—(through the 28th)—Sigmund Romberg comes to life in Deep In My Heart starring Jose Ferrer, Merle Oberon, and Helen Traubel. From the life and music of the famous conductor and composer comes a story richly portrayed by a dozen or so top MGM contract singers and dancers in selections of individual numbers guaranteed to win your applause. This longer-than-usual movie won’t appeal to the “faster” set.
IT'S ANYFACE CRIMINAL MASTER.
OF 1,000 DISGUISES."
HAJf NO REAL GlRAFFE'D HAVE SUCH DRY, MESSY HAIR.'/ HE'D USEWILDROOT CREAM-OIL/'
f?'
TO KEEP IT 1— NEATrBUTNOr -UGh'-GREASY" WHY DON'T YOU GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, _
CHARLIE" J
,1-
MY IDEAL, FOSDICK, HAS GONE
BALMY.'/
10*
PEANUTS 1
THAT'D BE ILLEGAL.— MY NAME IS EZIO/'
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL? KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUTNOTI
GREASY. NON- i ALCOHOLIC CONTAINS I
LANOLIN. RELIEVES DRYNESS. 1 REMOVES LOOSE	[
DANPRUEFTr I

&


*



1 11

6
The Scholastic^
Editor's Page
£	Monday night the Student Senate unanimously passed and approved a student activities fee of 75 cents
for the spring semester. In addition to this it passed a motion that admission to Senate-sponsored activities be granted only-to those who pay the fee. This legislation was motivated by the belief that those students who pay should benefit and to provide incentive for students to pay the activities fee. This legislation will be enforced, the Senate stated.
It is generally agreed that government — whether it be federal, state, county or local — exists to provide services for its citizens. Funds are needed to perform this primary function. And along with this need comes the power to collect funds from those who will be benefited — the citizens. The same situation exists here. The Student Senate is a local government, duly constituted and composed of men elected by the student body W as its representatives.	•
Since the Student Senate came into existence, replacing the Student Council, it has expanded the activities program several times over. Before it, there were few dances — the Class dances and Victory dances in the fall being about all. Victory dances cost two dollars a couple. There were few other social events. Activities in the academic, spiritual and other fields were negligible. Each semester since the Senate’s birth these activities have been expanded appreciably. Experience has proved that sizeable sums are necessary7 to carry on these programs — more than can be provided by the collection of a dollar from each student for the entire year.
. It follows logically that the Senate must lew an assessment of some kind (the student activities fee) to raise funds sufficient to continue the program.	’
Last year the Senate found it necessary to levy7 one dollar activities fee for the spring semester. This aroused antagonism for several reasons. First, the impression had been given at fall registration that only one	!
dollar would be collected for the year. Second, the decision was arrived at rather suddenly, with no advance	|
word. And, this, the penalty of differential rates for social functions was instituted. Thirty-five per cent of the	I
student body did not pay the fee.	i
This year, no such false impression was given at registration, the meeting Monday night was publicized over i WNDU and no such penalty has been instituted. Because of economies, the Senate has approximately $5,000	!
on hand entering the spring semester. However, a suggested program lists a budget of $7,170. Added to this £ it is advisable to have an additional $1,000 in case of spending beyond the budget, as well as providing .
$1,500 to leave for the next year’s Senate. This is necessary to meet summer expenses, chiefly loans to Col- ! leges having early fall dances to enable them to make band contracts. Last year’s Senate left over $2,300.
Because of the $5,000 balance, the Senate arrived at the 75-cent fee, believing it sufficient if 4,000 or more students pay. There is no penalty for non-payment, beyond that of non-admission to Senate-sponsored activities. Thus, only7 those who desire to take part need pay. It seems a just rule.	.
If a student is unable to pay his fee at registration, he will be given the opportunity7 until a date not yet determined by7 the Senate. However, the fee must be paid in order that a student may buy a Mardi Gras bid next Tuesday or Wednesday or to get into the Feb. 19 Senate dance. The rule of non-admission will be en-
• forced at these times, though the opportunity will be available for payment then. Once the deadline for payment is past, the rule will be strictly enforced. Since the Class dances are Senate-sponsored through underwriting, these are included under the rule. This is one point of questionability7, since the classes are co-sponsors. But the principle remains the same—benefits for those who contribute to their existence.
The Senate is attempting to provide activities of a quantity and quality it feels desired by the student body. Insufficient funds would make a cutback necessary. What happens depends upon response to the collection. The Senate feels the desire for continuance of present activities will be demonstrated.
A report on the Senate meeting appears on page 9.
£ January 14, 1955	.	7
r
n
A Campus-to-Career Case History
“Always something new”
“Different types of work appeal to different men,” says Donald O’Brian (A.B., Indiana, ’50), in the Traffic Department with Indiana Bell Telephone Company. “For me, I’ll take a job that keeps me hopping. And that’s just the kind of job I have.
“You’d think that after two years I’d have all the variables pinned down. But it doesn’t work that way. When you supervise telephone service for thousands of different customers whose
needs are always changing, there’s always something new coming up.
“I started with Indiana Bell in 1952, after two years in the Army. My training program exposed me to many different kinds of telephone work—customer contact, personnel, accounting, operations. I saw a lot of jobs which looked as interesting as mine. As much as I like the kind of work I’m doing now, I bet I’ll like my next spot even better.”
Don’s enthusiasm for his joh is pretty typical of how most young college men feel about their telephone careers. Perhaps you’d be interested in a similar opportunity with a Bell Telephone operating company, such as Indiana Bell... or with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric or Sandia Corporation. See your Placement Officer for more information.
SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic r;
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 11
Notre Dame, Indiana
January 14, 1955
•Senate Levies 75-Cent Tax for New Term; New Enforcement Plan to Penalize Evaders
Plans Now Complete For Mardi Gras Ball
PETER STURTEVANT AND PAUL LA FRENIERE
By
The Student Senate voted unanimously Monday to charge a Senate tax of $ .75 for the second semester and passed an enforcement resolution barring those who do not pay this tax kfrom all Senate-sponsored activities. rThe tax is now being collected from registering students.
The new tax policy represents an attempt to charge the lowest tax rate possible for meeting the students’ needs in the second semester and at the same time to assure that the cost of the services rendered by the Senate is equitably distributed. The tax was lowered from last year’s dollar assessment because of economies effected by |,the Senate in the first semester.
The $ .75 figure was obtained after a two-hour discussion of the need for money in the second semester and the present financial condition of the Senate. A tentative budget for the second semester, presented by President Joe Daley, indicated that the Senate would cany out its second semestei- program for a net expenditure of §6,970.
The amount of money available to cover these expenses was determined by adding the §4,288.66 profit realized by the Senate in the first semester to the §1,772.38 on hand at the beginning of the semester. Thus, the Senate had §6,061.04 to meet its expenses as of Jan. 6, when the financial statements were drawn up. It was estimated that this figure would be reduced by approximately §600 between Jan. 6 and the end of the first semester, so that only §5,460 would be available to meet the §6,970 in anticipated expenses.
In addition to the §1,510 deficit for the operation of the Senate from February to May, it was estimated that a surplus of not less than §1,500 would have to be left for operations from May through September. This surplus is necessaiy for loaning dance committees the funds to make down payments for fall dances, to pay bills received in May, and to provide working
capital for the Senate until the first semestei- tax is collected next year.
Thus the Senate decided that it needed to collect a minimum of §3,010 to provide the student body with the proposed services.
Financial statements showing where student tax money went in the first semester and where the tax now being levied would be spent in the second semester were distributed at the meeting.
The statement of profit and loss showed that, while services rendered by the Senate were increased, the Senate made a profit of over §4,200. This profit was attributable primarily to the Senate’s Saturday night dances and to first semester economies such as the pay-as-you-ride bus policy. The expense section of the statement shows what the students received for their money in the first semester.
(Continued on page 20)
CHAIRMAN HAYES AND AIDES
Pre-lenten Festival Gets Finishing Touch
The 1955 Mardi Gras Ball will be held Friday, Feb. 11, from 9 to 1 in the LaFortune Student Center. Dance Chairman John Weithers and his date will reign as king and queen of this last dance before Lent. No corsages will be required for the semi-formal event, while car permissions and 2 o’clock residences will be granted.
Announcement of the band was made today by the dance committee.
Bids for the ball will be on sale in the dining hall basement from 5 to 7 p. m. on Tuesday and Wednesday, Jan. 18 and 19, for 5 dollars apiece. At the same time hotel accommodations for out of town dates can be made, and tickets for the Dixieland jazz concert to be presented in the Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoon, Feb 12, can be purchased.
“There will be only 500 bids sold for the dance,” explained Weithers, “and they will go on a first-come, first-serve basis. Remember this will he
(Continued on page 33)
January 14, 1955
Notre Dame Laments Loss of Fred Millers; Plane Crash Proves Fatal to Alumnus and Son
A faulty engine on their twin engine Lockheed Ventura was responsible for the death on Friday, Dec. 17, of Frederick C. Miller and Fred Jr. Two pilots also died in the crash which took place just after the plane had taken off from Mitchell Field in Milwaukee for Canada.
Civil Aeronautics Administration control tower operators at Milwaukee said the engine caught fire a minute after take-off. The pilot radioed the control tower saying that he would try to turn back and land. The control tower cleared all runways for the plane, but the pilot was unable to turn the plane and it crashed, exploded, and burned in a field seven blocks north of the airport.
Fred Miller Jr. was a junior in the General Program and lived in 381 Dillon Hall. He was a member of the 1952 freshman football squad and a member of last year’s track squad. Miller attended Milwaukee Country Day High School where he attained fame as an all-state halfback.
Frederick Miller Sr. was graduated from Notre Dame in 1928. He was a tackle on the 1926, ’27, and ’28 football teams. In 1928 he was elected captain of the team and gained AllAmerican honors. The 1928 team was one of the last coached by Knute Rockne who, like Miller, died in a plane crash. From 1943 to 1953 Miller was a volunteer coach under Frank Leahy, and upperclassmen will recall seeing him frequently on the campus.
After graduating from Notre Dame Miller joined the firm founded by his grandfather, the Millei- Brewing Co., of Milwaukee. He was elected president of the brewery in 1947. A noted civic leader, Miller was president of the Milwaukee Chamber of Cominerce.
He was also a director of the Green Bay Packers football team, and was instrumental in bringing the Boston Braves to Milwaukee. He was also in charge of the special gifts committee for the new St. Amelian’s Orphanage in Milwaukee and had broken ground for it just a week before his death.
The plane crash occurred in midafternoon. Fred Jr. had just arrived at the airport after driving up from Notre Dame with several friends. He and his father were going to a cabin near Winnipeg, Canada, for a week-end of hunting. Fred Sr. was thrown clear of the plane as it crashed, and died of burns and shock several hours later after receiving the last rites of the Church.
The younger Miller was trapped in
the burning wreckage. However, the last thing he did before leaving for home was to attend Mass and receive Communion in the Dillon Hall Chapel.
The funeral foi* the Millers was held at Gesu Church in Milwaukee, Monday, Dec. 20. The bodies were in state at the Miller home in Oconomowoc, Wis., Sunday, where the Notre Dame Milwaukee Club and the Milwaukee Notre Dame Alumni Club joined in a Rosary for the two men.
Campus Mourns Loss Of Placement Head
Mr. William R. Dooley, Placement Bureau Director for the University, passed away early Christmas morning
MR. WILLIAM E. DOOLEY
Loss For Placement
of complications resulting from what was expected to be a “routine” operation.
Mr. Dooley counseled students and alumni and assisted them in finding suitable employment, since his appointment as placement director in 1950. Previously, Mr. Dooley served for sixteen years as assistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
Mr. Dooley received several hundred representatives of business and industry who came to the University each year to interview graduating seniors. He was responsible for bringing many large corporations to interview seniors and graduates seeking employment.
A native of La Salle, Ill., Dooley was graduated from Notre Dame in 1926 with a B. A. degree in Journalism. Before joining the staff of the University in 1933, he was associated with
New Draft Program Will Favor Students *
A new draft plan which will affect the lives of most American youths is likely to go into effect within the next few months. This plan has been proposed by the President and the Pentagon, and is quite likely to be approved by Congress. Features of this program will be a cut-back in the draft call, a six-month training program for teen- s agers, and weekly drill for ex-service'^ men.
The object of this new plan is to re- g duce the number in active service and i greatly build up the number in the | active reserve.	|
The main effect on students will be | this: There will be decreased demand | for college students as the age of | draftees goes up. It is already aver- g aging 21 in most states, 22 in many others E after being about 19 not long ago. This^ draft age will go even higher as the~ £ number in active service is cut back. College deferments will become easier £ to get as the draft age goes up. Last j year from Notre Dame 13 students	|
were drafted, the number in the 1952-	|
53 school year was ten, and the num- | bei- for the previous year was 8. This | number will go down again if the new plan is put into effect.
Also, a student can completely avoid the draft by taking a 6 month training course and participating in the active reserve for 9% years after that. ® If there were an emergency though, B these men would go into combat before p those who would have to go through fe the draft routine.	g
Another feature of this program is || that veterans will have to serve the | remainder of their 8 service years in if the active reserves, with weekly drill and 2 weeks yearly summer camp required. There will be stiff penalties*! for failure to do so, including loss of & benefits, and an “other than honorable” K discharge.	g
There will continue to be a push B for enlistments by putting draftees into B less desirable branches of the service. If
the Peoria, Ill., Journal-Transcript, and K served as publicity and advertising di-	|
rector for the Nothern Indiana Public	|
Service Company. He was also engaged,'* | in sales promotion work for the Western Clock Company of LaSalle, Ill.
Dooley served as vice-president of || the iMidwest College Placement Assoc. U during 1953, and was a delegate to a conference on the responsibilities of ' higher education toward international understanding at the United Nations.
Dooley is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Terry, two sons and three daughters.
10
The Scholastic X
I
I
Ivan Mestrovic, Famed Croatian Sculptor, * Accepts Faculty Appointment at Notre Dame
Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated Cro-tian sculptor, will join the faculty of the University in September, according to a^i announcement today by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affairs. The 71-year old artist, regarded as the outstanding ^living sculptor of religious subjects, is %ne of several internationally recognized figures who have accepted faculty appointments at Notre Dame under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
Mestrovic, who recently became an American citizen, has been a professor and sculptor-in-residence at Syracuse University in New York since 1947. For many years prior to World War II, ghe was rector of the Academy of Art in Zagreb. A patriot, whose works of art have often portrayed the aspirations and traditions of the Croatian people, Mestrovic was imprisoned during the early part of the war. He was released as a result of Vatican intervention and spent the latter part of the war as a refugee in Switzerland.
Mestrovic’s sculpture is contemporary, but it bears an unmistakable pre-classical and classical influence. His g.vorks in stone, wood, and clay can be found in museums, private collections, churches, and parks from Belgrade to Chicago. A bronze sculpture of the crucified Christ by Mestrovic can be viewed in the foyer of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts at Notre Dame. One of the artist’s more recent projects consisted of twenty-nine panels on the Life of Christ which he sent to Yugoslavia as his gift to the Wcroatian people.
Born in Vrpolje on Aug. 15, 1883, Mestrovic often tended his family’s flocks as a youth. Mestrovic’s parents provided the first encouragement for his long and productive career as a sculptor. As a boy, he watched his father carving and soon was carving his own figures in wood or limestone. Critics attribute much of the religious character of Mestrovic’s work to his ^mother who was a deeply religious Avoman.
At the age of fifteen Mestrovic became apprenticed to a stone cutter and his virtuosity soon became apparent. A year later he commenced formal studies at the art academy in Vienna. The first exhibition of his early works in Vienna attracted considerable attention and Mestrovic came to be regarded as a revolutionary in art. Succeeding exhibitions marked Mestrovic as a leading
Croatian nationalist since his works served to inspire his people in their fight for' emancipation from the Austro-Hungarian empire.
Despite his emergence as a political figure, Mestrovic shunned public office and even resigned from Parliament soon after his election. When Croatian and Serbian nationalists were threatened with imminent arrest at the outbreak of World War I, Mestrovic fled to Italy. During the war years he was instrumental in forming the Yugoslav Committee whose objectives were achieved at the close of that conflict with the creation of the new nation of Yugoslavia.
Mestrovic’s works have been included in international exhibitions for nearly fifty years. Among them are many
IVAN MESTROVIC An International “Find”
sculptures of Christ, His Mother and the saints as well as more recent portraits of Pope Pius XII, Cardinal Stepinac, former President Herbert Hoover, and the late President Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia.
New Selections Highlight Glee Club Concert Tour
The Notre Dame Glee Club, composed of 36 selected members, Director Daniel Pedtke, and a chaplain will leave Jan. 29 to begin its annual between semesters road trip.
Travelling by bus, the club has appearances scheduled for Memphis, Tenn., Franklin, La., Norfolk, Va., Canton and Hamilton, O. The Club will also spend a day in Washington, D. C., but no concert will be given there.
This is the club’s first showing in all the places except Franklin, where they performed last year.
It won’t be all work for the mem
bers, who will have receptions, suppers, and dances held for them at Memphis, Franklin, and Canton by- the various groups which sponsor the club’s shows.
A few highlights of the program, which is termed “entirely new” by Lee Crean, business manager for the club, are Last Words of David, The Damnation of Faust, Come to the Fair, Gal-ivay Piper, and the quartet from Rige-letto. Some Negro spirituals are also included, and the program will close with the traditional Notre Dame We Hail Tkee and Victory March.
One of the few college glee clubs in the country that pay their own expenses, the tour will be financed by receipts from the appearances.
The members will return to campus in time for classes on Feb. 7.
Parent-Son Week End Slated for Mar. 18-20
The third annual Parent-Son Weekend sponsored by the Junior class, will be held here March 18, 19, and 20, Dan Devine, class president, announced recently.	.
The annual affair was begun in 1953 in order to offer to the parents of the students an opportunity to witness the campus life of their sons in the academic, religious, and social spheres, and in extra-curricular activities.
Saturday, March 19, will be the principal day of the weekend with open house extended by all the colleges, ROTC’s and LOBUND. Saturday noon parents and students will eat lunch together in the Dining Hall. Tours of the campus will complete the afternoon activities.
Saturday night is the President’s Dinner attended by all the University vice-presidents. This dinner, also to be held in the Dining Hall, will have Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, as the principal speaker.
Devine reported that the procedure for the parents to obtain hotel reservations will be to return a business reply card to the Parent-Son Weekend Committee as soon as possible after receiving the invitation. The first 90 returned will receive accommodations in the Morris Inn, with the remainder being accommodated in a downtown hotel.
The committee for the week-end activities will consist of the Junior Class officers, a representative from each college on campus, and a member of the Blue Circle. The names of those form- * ing the balance of the committee will be announced at a future date.
11
^January 14, 1955
JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET
Their Favorites Just Don’t Grow Old
Juilltard Quartet Will Give Concert Monday: String Ensemble Features Vast Repertoire
The Juilliard String Quartet, hailed by music critics as one of America’s greatest contributions to quartet history, will appear in Washington Hall at 8 p. m. next Monday night.
Sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series which also brought the Tyroliers to the University, the Juilliard Quartet is composed of some of music’s finest instrumentalists. The performers are Robert Mann, first violinist; Robert Koff, second violinist; Raphael Hillyer, violinist; and Arthur Winograd, cello.
Formed after the war, the String Quartet has given hundreds of concerts in the United States, Canada and Europe. Included in their vast repertoire of over 100 selections are quartet masterpieces dating from the early European classicists to the modern composers. These include the works of Mozart, Hayden, Beethoven, and Schubert, and the present-day writings of Bela Bartok, Arnold Schoenberg, and Anton Webern. The Juilliard Quartet has helped to popularize the latter three composers.
Holiday Magazine lauded the Quartet, stating that “It is made up of four Americans who look and act and play as never a European string quartet looked and acted and played . . . obsessed, magnificently independent, in-spiringly restrained . . . symbols of the new spirit.”
The playing of the quartet reveals a
12
a new and higher dimension of unity while preserving the individualities of its four members. Their interpretations do not bear the mark of one man, but rather are a distinct composite.
The group was formed with the aid of the Juilliard School of Music president, William Schuman, who planned to establish a new American string quartet in residence at the school. Before the war Hillyer and Winograd met while playing at Koussevitsky’s Music Center in Tanglewood. After the war the two combined with Mann and Koff to take up Schuman’s offer for a quartet. Since then they have been giving concerts and recording for Columbia Records’ American Chamber Music Series.
Junior Prom Set for May 6; Contest Held to Pick Theme
The Junior Class prom committee has announced May 6 as the date for this year’s class dance, to be held in the Student Center. The committee, which has been working with the Junior Class officers, has not yet decided on an orchestra foi* the prom.
The theme for this year’s prom will be selected from suggestions turned in by the members of the Junior Class. The winner of the theme contest will
be announced next week. He will ceive a free bid to the prom.
Dave Granger, prom chairman, promised a “novel setting” for
juniors’ big week-end this year, which^ will include the prom, a dinner-dance, J and a Communion Breakfast.
The committee chairmen were chosen by the class officers and by Granger. They are Bill Warren, Communion Breakfast chairman; Walt Reeney, busi
ness manager; Dave Collins, ticket | chairman; Bob Welsh, refreshmen ’ chairman; Dennis Powers, chairman o the dinner-dance; Karl Martersteck, publicity chairman; and Jerry McPart-lin, hotel chairman.
IRC to Host Annual Confab on Feb. 26-27
Approximately 200 students from 15^ colleges and universities will attend the annual conference of the Midwest Region of International Relations Clubs Feb. 26 and 27 at Notre Dame. The feS
Notre Dame International Relations Club will be host to delegates from schools in Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan.
The conference will be opened with an address on foreign affairs by a prominent speaker and will be followed, by a series of student-conducted con4|

ferences current quet at a mixer held in ence.
on the various problems in' international relations. A ban-( the Oliver Hotel, followed by in the Student Center, will be conjunction with the confer-
Thirty Discussions Planned
A total of 30 individual discussion^f periods, 10 each covering military, eco-fj -' nomic, and political aspects of inter-^' national relations problems, will be held/|| In each discussion period, a paper on ® the subject will be read by one of the® students, followed by general discussion® from the floor. An advisor from theS Notre Dame faculty will sit in on each® discussion. Faculty members with spe- W cial knowledge of the discussion sub-’ J jects will be asked to participate as advisors.
Jack Goetsch, Notre Dame IRC chairman, is serving as general chairma for the conference. He announced that all sessions of the conference will be open to the student body.
“We’d like to see as many students as possible participate in what promises to be an excellent opportunity for considering the important problems of international relations,” Goetsch said.
Last year’s regional conference was held at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind.
The Scholasti
3
I
| $ Longines Symphone-He ' To Play Here Feb. 20
m The famed Longines Symphonette, j known throughout the United States
and Canada by its appearances on the CBS radio network in addition to its concert tours, will perform on Feb. 20 in Washington Hall at 8:15 p. m.
The Symphonette, under the direc-^tion of Mishel Piastro, has won the Musical America magazine’s “Top Award” poll five seasons since its inception. The group has been voted the finest concert ensemble in radio for five consecutive years.
Broadcasts Every Sunday
The Symphonette broadcasts regularly on Sunday afternoons over the ^entire CBS network. It has also performed for a number of years on radio in the New York area.
The Longines Symphonette had its premiere broadcast over radio station WEAF in New York in 1941. The original group was a chamber orchestra in the truest sense, consisting of 13 musicians all men from the New York Philharmonic. In 1943 woodwinds were added, and later the Symphonette was enlarged to include all of the usual orchestral instruments.
- Mishel Piastro, who has been on the podium for all the Symphonette’s performances, is a noted violinist in his own right. A native of Czarist Russia, Piastro studied undei- the great Leopold Auer. He was graduated from the Petrograd Conservatory of Music in 1910 with highest honors. 'Since he came to America in 1920, Piastro has been acclaimed one of the greatest of con-£ temporary violinists.
“History’s Greatest Concertmaster”
He has appeared with the New York Philharmonic and San Francisco Symphony Orchestras as concertmaster. Toscanini frequently referred to Piastro as “the greatest concertmaster in history.”
The Longines Symphonette specializes in the playing of shorter selections, or £ “movements,” by the great composers, as well as many lighter pieces. The policy of the orchestra from its beginning has been to play every piece of music, as far as it is possible, from the original score. Mishel Piastro has conducted the group in over 2,500 compositions, perhaps the largest employed by a concert ensemble.
The appearance of the Symphonette at Notre Dame is being sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series.
• January 14, 1955
University Theater's Rehearsals in High Gear For Feb. 17 Portrayal of 'Cyrano de Bergerac'
Cyrano de Bergerac, starring Gene Gorski as the romantic Frenchman with a poetic soul and an over-sized nose and Gayle Baumer as Roxanne, the woman he loves, will make its appearance on the Washington Hall stage on Feb. 17 through 20.
Mr. Edward Doyle, director of the February University Theater production, praised the work of the cast so far and especially the progress of Gorski who, besides mastering the difficult acting assignment, must also learn the art of fencing. Daily, Jack Monny, former captain of the fencing- team, is instructing Gorski in theatrical fencing. Doyle added that Gorski’s singing ability is a valuable asset to the musical background of Cyrano.
A change in the cast gave Gayle Baumer, a junior at St. Mary’s College, the lead role of Roxanne. Well-known to theater-goers, Miss Baumer starred in the University Theater’s last production, Detective Story.
Playing the part of Christian, the lover of Roxanne, Tom Neville will be making his first appearance on the Washington Hall stage. He poifrays the role of a soldier opposite in character to Cyrano — strong, handsome but a dud at words.
Two freshmen, Mike Kennedy and
Seniors to Hold Exercises On Washington's Birthday
The Washington Birthday Exercises will be held on February 22, at 8 p. m. in Washington Hall, Jim Ehret, chairman of the exercises announced recently. The exercises are required for all seniors.	•.
“Those seniors who had planned on leaving the University for the extended week-end,” said Ehret, “will still be able to do so, provided they return to the campus by 2 p. m. Tuesday, for- the exercises.” No caps and gowns will be required except for those participating in the presentations.
Besides the usual presentation of the American flag to the University by the class, the Second Annual Pa triot Award of the Year will be presented. The winner, who was chosen by the Senior Class on a preferential ballot in late November, will be announced in the Feb. 11 issue of the Scholastic.
A speaker of national prominence will be featured at the exercises, according to the committee. He too, will be announced in the next issue of this magazine.
Bor Moran, assumed the roles of the sinister De Guiche and the baker, Ra-gueneau, respectively. This will be the first time for Moran in the Notre Dame Theater while Kennedy appeared in Detective Story. Another performer from the last University Theater play, Phil Donohue, plays the part of Le Bret, the closest friend and advisor of Cyrano.
The five-act play centers around a love triangle involving the physically imperfect, but very articulate Cyrano, the beautiful Roxanne, and the handsome Christian. Afraid to express his love for his fair cousin for fear of being laughed at, Cyrano discovers that she loves someone “handsome” whom he is sure can not be him. Thinking that Roxanne meant Christian, he substitutes his voice for his friend and wins for him the hand of the girl. War breaks up the romance and helps bring a dramatic end to the play in a convent garden.
One of the most unique parts of Cyrano de Bergerac is the seven-foot balcony to be used in all five acts. Designed by a member of the St. Mary’s speech department, Mr. Garzaro, who is in charge of all the costumes and sets, tile structure will be used as a balcony in the first scene,’ a fireplace in Ragueneau’s Pastry Shop, a balcony again in Roxanne’s garden, a battlement in Act Four and a part of the convent wall in the final scene.
Mr. Fred Syburg will handle the production end of the presentation while Mrs. Walsh is in charge of making the seventeenth-century costumes.
GENE GORSKI Heartthrob for Roxanne

Annual Marriage Institute Will Open Feb. 23; Noted Lecturers to Speak at Seven Sessions
Life’s most serious contract will be signed by many of Notre Dame’s graduating seniors in the near future, not with their signature, but with the two words, “I will.”
Realizing that the majority of the class is headed for married life, the senior officers, in conjunction with the Department of Religion, will present the seventh annual Marriage Institute beginning on Feb. 23 and continuing until early April with one conference each week. With the expressed purpose of teaching Notre Dame men how to live to the fullest as a husband and a father, the Marriage Institute —officially, “An Institute on Christian Marriage”—is held once during each academic year.
Limited to graduate students, undergraduate seniors, engaged and married students, the Institute climbed in popularity from an elec- ,	. _ - . . .
tive course on Christian Marriage, attended by only 30 or 40 seniors, to an event that attracted over 850 seniors last year.
This year’s event, headed by chairman Ron Kueber, will take up new quarters in Washington Hall, a change from previous years due to an anticipated large crowd. The Engineering Auditorium, site in prior years, was found inadequate to accommodate last year’s record breaking turnout.
A new feature of this year’s Institute will be an informal coffee hour to be held in the Student Center following each session. Visiting speakers will be invited to attend the coffee hour and to meet their audience.
“This year, in order to fulfill the mounting expectations of the seniors, we intend to present to them the finest Marriage Institute to date,” said Kueber. Kueber and his committee have lined up many of the nation’s leading Christian marital experts to speak at the Institute.
The six-week program will get its initial send-off when Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd take the rostrum on Feb. 23. Mr. O’Dowd, a ’42 Notre Dame graduate, is one of the leading figures in the Cana Conference movement in Chicago. Both O’Dowd and his wife are regarded as experts in the Cana movement. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will speak to the Institute, as he has in the past, on courtship and engagement. Father
Hesburgh’s talk is yearly acclaimed one of the best.
Rev. Thomas McDonough, assistant chaplain of the Calvert Club of the University of Chicago and conductor of the pre-Cana work in the Chicago area has also consented to speak at the Institute. Father McDonough has had five years experience in the Cana movement.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Strubbe, the second of the husband-and-wife teams to address the Institute, will return to Notre Dame for a repeat performance. Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe, well received at Notre Dame last year, will parlay their experience from many years of married life to speak of the love and spirituality of Christian marriage.
Dr. Louis Leone, M.D., a well-known Catholic doctor in the Chicago area will address the Institute from the medical view point.
Dr. John J. Kane, head of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame and one of the nation’s leading sociologists, will also appear before the Marriage Institute.
The first two sessions are to be held on Wednesday evenings; the last five, however, will be shifted back to Tuesday night. Each speaker is limited to one hour in which to deliver his speech. Following the speech, the audience will quiz the speaker in a question-and-answer period which usually lasts about one-half hour. Students who still seek answers to their questions are able to speak with the speaker following the question-answer period.
Further insight is given to the student when he purchases the pamphlets that are placed on sale during the Institute. Written by many of the topnotch experts on Christian marriage, these pamphlets aid the student in further understanding the vast topic of marriage.
Tickets for the Marriage Institute will go on sale Feb. 17. A dollar ticket entitles its owner to attend all six sessions and the coffee hours that follow. The proceeds of the Institute help defray the expenses of the speakers and provide audio equipment necessary to record each meeting.
Kueber, a Commerce man from Detroit, is aided by Ed Kelly who heads the special arrangements group. Kelly is an AB senior from Logansport, Ind. Rick Hicks, a Commerce senior from Hollywood, Calif., is in charge of promotion, while Phil Powell, another Commerce senior, takes charge of the physical setup.	'
B-X Renovated System Effects Faster Service
Beginning at the end of the first, semester, the students attempting to sell books at the Student Book Exchange, will be confronted with a new system. But this system will provide a faster service in addition to eliminating the elusive “white slip” which somehow became “misplaced” after a month
or so.
In past years the seller two slips, a green one which ed in to the B-X, and the which was kept and used
filled ou was turnwhite one as a re-
ceipt to collect the money for the books sold. Over periods of some time, these receipts were lost, and the seller was thus faced with the problem of getting his money.
The new plan consists of filling out _ these slips, which are obtained from a B-X representative in each hall. TheO^ seller can fill them out in Jiis room at his leisure, and hand them in at a special desk in the Exchange. Wallet size receipts will be given to the seller for safer handling.
The white slips will now be filed ac

cording to the seller’s name, and in event that the receipts are lost, B-X will have a proper record of seller and his books.
For those who do not want to this better and faster system, the way of waiting in line to fill out slips will still be provided.
the the the
use
thei s

Senate Social Group Maps th Second Semester Activities ||
Plans for the second semester social f calendar were outlined by the Social; f
Committee of the Student Senate, at its meeting January 6.
The Committee expressed a desire for a successful revision of the Student Senate dance constitution, and a study of social relationships between St. Mary’s, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home, neighboring Catholic girls’ colleges, and St. Mary’s Academy.
Among the social activities planned are: a trip to St. Mary of the Woods, Saturday night dances, Freshman mixers, hall parties, club parties, and
;■
We
£
Lenten activities.	W
The St. Mary of the Woods trip, set P-: for March, is in response to an invitation extended to about 150 Notre |li Dame students to visit the campus. A fr mixer, a Communion breakfast, and 1' several other activities are being plan- B . ned.	| j
Ice skating parties, bowling parties, F | mixers, and an Easter concert by St. 11 .Mary’s Glee Club are also being con- . sidered.	i
14
The Scholastic
.	TERRY BRENNAN
J	Receives Jay-Cee Honor
>	Terry Brennan Listed
• Among Top Men of '54
; Terry Brennan, head football coach I at the University of Notre Dame, was [ selected as one of the ten outstanding young men of 1954, the United States Junior Chambei’ of Commerce announced Jan. 8.
Coach Brennan and the other nine young men were selected by a board of prominent and nationally-known judges, from the 15,000 nomination blanks sent out by the Jaycees.
Such men as Robert Considine, columnist and International News Service feature writer, George Gallup, director of the American Institute of Public Opinion, and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University made the selections.
£ The board considered the nominees, all between the ages of 21 and 36, as to “what outstanding contributions each had made to his profession and what outstanding contributions each had made to the general welfare of the people.”
Brennan was cited for “his qualities of leadership, his intellectual stature, and his coaching prowess,” besides his athletic abilities.
This honor was attained by the £ young native of Milwaukee less than a year after he stepped into the national spotlight as coach of the Fighting Irish.
Brennan, a married man with two small children, had a record of nine wins and only a single loss this year.
Coach Brennan and the other outstanding young men of 1954, will be honored at the national Jaycee banquet in Louisville, Ky., Jan. 22.
By being chosen to this honor, they
join the ranks of such renowned individuals as Harold Stassen, Richard Nixon, Orson Welles, Henry Ford II, Joe Louis, and Howard Hughes.
Brennan is the third Notre Dame alumnus in the last four years to receive this honor. In 1951, Colonel Francis S. Gabreski, ’42, of the Air Force, was selected, and the following year Brigadier General John P. Henebry, ’40, captured the honor.
One of the othei- young men selected this year, Robert F. Kennedy, is also of a Notre Dame family. His father, Joseph P. Kennedy, is one of Notre Dame’s lay trustees and his brother, Senatoi- John Kennedy of Massachusetts, is a member of the Arts and Letters Advisory Board.
Players Inc. to Give Final Show Tonight
Players Incorporated of Washington, D. C., will complete their repertoire here tonight by presenting their final performance of Moliere’s hilarious comedy, The Would-Be Gentleman. The curtain rises at 8:15 p. m. in Washington Hall. Tuesday and Wednesday evenings the Players brought to the Washington Hall stage Shakespeare’s renowned Julius Caesar.
In five seasons of touring the nation, Players Incorporated has given more than 500 performances of Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing, Othello, Macbeth, Twelfth Night, and Lovers Labour’s Lost; George Bernard Shaw’s Arms and the Man; and Moliere’s School for Wives and The Miser.
All members of the company are former students of the famous Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., noted for the many Broadway hits which have originated from its University Theater. The C. U. department is under the direction of Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., one of the most prominent figures in the American theatei' today.
The goal of Players Incorporated is to bring back to the American scene the traveling repertory company. Many outstanding theatrical personalities have long lamented the death of the road companies.
By pioneering anew, the Players have revitalized a theater world too long centered in one city. From San Antonio, Texas, to Burlington, Vermont, the Players have toured, performing in both major cities and small towns. They have played before seasoned theater-goers and before audiences who had never before seen a professional production.
Name Cooke to Head Engineer Open House
Berkley Cooke, senior in architecture, has been appointed chairman of the annual Engineering Open House to he held May 13, 14, and 15, it was announced recently by the Department of Engineering.	'
As in the past, this year’s open house will begin with a science show in Washington Hall Friday morning. An air show will be the feature attraction Saturday morning. While the focal point Saturday afternoon will still be on speed, it probably won’t be at the supersonic rate, as the chariot races get underway and the Chemical Engineers attempt to keep the winner’s plaque they won last year.
An auto show, featuring some of the latest model sports cars, will be presented with the stress on how the engineer works in the automobile industry. Plans are also being made to have executives from various engineering firms deliver lectures during the open house.
This year the Open House will be held on three days instead of two. The displays will be open Sunday, as well as on Friday and Saturday, so that the residents of the local area will have a better opportunity to view the work of the students.
Berkley Cooke has chosen the following men to assist him in direction of the open house: Orlando Maione, publicity; Bill Leonard, business manager; and Ron Schnurr, general program and secretary.
Frank Hunter is in charge of the air show; Jim Shane is handling arrangements for the auto show; Jerry Driscoll is managing the science show.
In charge of the departmental exhibits are: Gene Schmidt, mechanical; Walt Gill, electrical; Dick Jacobs, civil; Leo Hawk, chemical; Pat Poynton, aeronautical; Bill Werner, metallurgical; and Chuck Millmann, architectural.
BERKLEY COOKE Heads Three-Day Affair
£ January 14, 1955
15

By DICK BURKE, Hall Council President
Hall booths in the Mardi Gras Carnival, an expanded and effective intra-mural program, consideration of the problem of study conditions in the halls, and a study of the suggested permanent hall residence plan are among the activities which are the work of a new face on campus. And yet the Hall Council system is technically not a newly-founded organization, for it came into existence during the fall of 1951 and was a very active group during the year as it conducted The Cake Contest, the proceeds of which went to the projected Student Center, and studied the factors of hall life. But, during the two succeeding years, the organization became inactive and failed to fulfill its potential.
The Student Senate of last year desired to reverse this trend and to have the Hall Council System assume its rightful role in student government, for the resi-
dence hall, concern of basic social Dame and
which is the the Council, unit here at consequently
major is the Notre is of
prime concern to student government. Hence, the Student Senate last April approved a new constitution for the Hall Council System which set forth the three purposes of the organization: 1) to enable the presidents of the halls to meet together and work in unison towards the solution of
with
the
DICK
BURKE
hall problems and
to facilitate operation of hall projects in the academic, religious and social sphere; 2) to assist the Student Senate in the furtherance of projects pertaining to the halls; 3) to serve as a means of communication between the Student Senate and student body through the individual hall councils.
The third all-important Hall Council in regard to as a part of
purpose brings into consideration an factor, the individual hall council. The System is concerned with the halls not their individual programs, but rather the overall hall residence picture. Thus
activities of the individual hall are left to the discretion of the hall council, so long as these activities are not detrimental to other halls. Nonetheless, there exists an extremely close relationship between the individual councils and the System, for the work of the latter must be implemented both in idea origination and in project execution by the former. And no one realizes more clearly than the hall president that the success or failure of the System depends upon the role of his hall council.
The membership of the Hall Council System consists of the 14 hall presidents, the four class vice-
presidents, and the
Senate who acts as year Jim Curtin, of
vice-president of the Student chairman for the group. This Walsh Hall as vice-chairman
and John Reardon of Morrissey as secretary-treasurer aid the president in the direction of the group.
This branch of to initiate action
approval
student government is empowered pertaining to inter-hall activities of the Senate, to advise the Senate in regard to legislation affecting the halls, and to appoint committees from its membership to fulfill its ends. Activities which are the concern of the System
have their source the individual hall Senate, or of the In the instance of
in meetings of councils, of the System itself, an idea for an
activity coming from either of the first two groups, the idea is then referred to the Hall Council System for a decision regarding its feasibility and for the appropriate action.
Concerning its method of operation, the System functions according to the committee form of organization. The memberships are distributed among four committees: Spiritual, Academic, Social, and Recreational. Each of these committees is chairmanned by a class vice-president. These committees concern themselves with functions proper to their
sphere of action.
Reports by the
officers and the committee chair-
men regarding their functions and discussions of new projects and problems highlight the bi-weekly meetings. In addition to these reports and discussions, two hall presidents are called upon at each meeting to discuss the organization and execution of their hall projects. This practice is intended to encourage a sharing of helpful ideas and plans of action which may be of benefit to all the halls, but which still will not encroach upon the projects of any one hall.
The System as a branch of student government
is properly subordinate to the Senate. In
Senate respects the work of the semi-independent body.
From a personal standpoint System will be of great service, that it has had little precedent
turn the that of a
group as
I believe
that the
In view of the fact to follow, the Hall
Council System in three months has grown into a well-functioning body which has already shown much promise. It can be of great, aid to student government, to the student body, and to its members in leadership development if the individual hall councils through the president participate in its work.
16
The Scholastic
j | $WNDU Holds Talks I . ' For Staff Aspirants
; -j A month-long series of lectures on | i	all the phases of radio broadcasting at
j i	Notre Dame was held recently as a
■; training program for students interested ? in joining the WNDU staff.
' About 60 freshmen and upperclass; men attended the lectures which were | ( given by the twelve department heads $ i >of the station, three of them speaking !	at each weekly session.
i
'■	Held For Future Operators
j The training program was designed i to give students who will be operating 11 the station in a few years a general
’ knowledge of the workings of WNDU and radio in general.
; Dick Beeman, station manager, di-1	rected the program. Others who spoke
. w during the series were John Bendel, ;•	chief engineer; Jim Bergquist, program
director; Don Brophy, record librarian;
'!	Larry Buckley, continuity director;
1	Fred Corkill, traffic manager; Joe DaI	ley, sports director; Jim Griffin, busis	ness manager; Ray Kennedy, sales
1	director; Bill Markley, chief announc-
j	er; Pat McCartan, public relations di. ■	rector; John McShane, technical direc.	tor; and Bob Simkins, news director.
: I The complete education in radio, ■ I1 £ theoretical as well as practical, that s j.	WNDU gives the members of its staff
*	was stressed at each session. The speak’	ers emphasized that WNDU is co-
I	curricular education at its highest de-
gree, giving students an opportunity i	to put classroom training in speech,
1	journalism, engineering, advertising,
।	and administration to practical use. .
i	Station Wholly Independent
1 WNDU is operated exclusively by , students who derive no academic credit ■	or financial gain from the activity. The
;	station is self-supporting, receiving its
j income from the sale of campus, local, ■ and national advertising, just as any j	regular commercial station.
' The WNDU staff is made up of about !	70 students from all undergraduate
colleges of the University. These students work in all departments of the ■ station, including announcing, writing, 0 programming, business and sales, engineering, and administrative and cleri-‘ cal duties.
Many of the WNDU staff members supplement the radio training with summertime jobs on their local stations. WNDU training is useful in fitting students for a career in professional 1 radio, the speakers said.
. Mr. Jerome A. Fallon of the University’s Department of Speech is faculty advisor of WNDU.
JIM PRICE AND JIM KRAMER
Loyola Trip Committeemen Get Together
'Safari to Chicago' to Converge on Windy City For ND-Loyola Basketball Game February 5
A contingent of 300 students will follow the Irish basketball squad into Chicago for the annual tussle with the Ramblers of Loyola University. Dubbed the “Safari to Chicago” by its sponsors, the Student Senate and the Blue Circle, the trip will depart for the Windy City on Saturday, Feb. 5, and will return the next evening.
Price for the two-day excursion will be §6. This fee will include round trip train fare and a ticket to the basketball game. Ordinarily the train and game prices would cost the student §9.50.
The students will depart from the New York Central Station in South Bend at 2 p. m., Saturday afternoon, via special train. They will arrive in Chicago at 2:30 p. m. due to the change in time. The train will stop at the LaSalle St. station.
Plans are being made for a possible party with the girls of Barat College, a Catholic women’s school in the Chicago area, for Saturday afternoon. The get-together would be held in a downtown hotel.
That night the Notre Dame-Loyola game will be played as part of a doubleheader at the Chicago Stadium. The other contest will be between De Paul and Manhattan College. The Irish will play the second game of the twin bill.
For the return trip to school the train will leave Chicago at 8 p. m. on Sunday night, and will arrive in South Bend at 10:30 p. m. An attempt is being made to have the train stop at the Englewood station to pick up students living in South Chicago.
Tickets for the “Safari” will be on
sale in the Dining Hall on Jan. 20 and 21. They will be sold on both days from 3-5 p. m. in the main lobby, and from 5-7 p. m. in the basement. This will provide off-campus students with an ample opportunity to purchase their ducats.
Tenative accommodations have been made for 300 students only. All those planning to make the journey are urged to buy their tickets early. Sign-out procedure for the trip will be the same as for an ordinary weekend.
Juniors Tom Caplet, representing the Blue Circle, and Jim Kramer, of the Student Senate, are co-chairman for the event.
Law School Admission Test : To Be Administered Here
Notre Dame has been designated as a testing center for the nation-wide Law School Admission Test, Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing announced r&-cently. The tests will be administered on Feb. 19, April 23, and Aug. 6, 1955.	•	’
The tests are open to seniors and juniors and are used as a basis for admission by many law schools throughout the country.
Application blanks for the test and information describing registration procedures may be obtained at Room 251, Main Building, or directly from the Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J. All applications must be received not later than ten days before the test.
January 14, 1955
17
Beginning on Tuesday, January 18, the Feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Rome, and continuing through January 25, the Feast of the Conversion of St. Paul, Notre Dame will join with Catholics the world over in celebrating the Chair of Unity Octave. Each of these days of prayer is dedicated to the conversion of one of the groups outside of the Catholic Church.
True to the spirit of the Octave, both priests and students will be dedicating their works and prayers according to the daily intention. Each evening at 5:15 in Dillon Hall Chapel, a 20-minute service consisting of the official prayers of the Octave and Benediction will be held as the focal point of the day’s observance.
Began In 1908
The Chair of Unity Octave was initiated by Father Paul, S.A., of Graymoor in 1908. However, at the time he and his community were Episcopalians. Their prayers for Christian unity resulted in their mass conversion to the
Catholic Church. The
movement
was
POPE PIUS
XII
By SAL ASSELTA and FRANK TONINI
given papal approval in 1916 by Benedict XV, and in 1921 the Bishops of the United States decided to observe the Octave in all the dioceses of the country.
This seemingly modern practice is in reality an enlargement of the traditional Solemn Prayers in the course of the familiar Liturgy of Good Friday. There, specific mention is made of each group outside the vital doctrinal and sacramental currents that flow within the Catholic Church. It is only by the authority of the Vicai’ of Christ, the visible head of this spiritual organism, ’ that these possessions are preserved incorrupt, and also administered.
The Chair of Peter
It is natural that this twentieth century movement of prayer for the estranged and opposed groups apart from the Mystical Body should take as its symbol of unity the chair, the office of Peter. “Ubi Petrus, ibi Ecclesia!”, Where Peter is, there is the Church. This dictum of early Christianity is just as true today as it will be to the end of time. We who realize this are involved in a constant effort, as confirmed members of Christ, to point the way for those who do not share in our status. We desire for them the blessings that ensue from our dignity of being able to submit our minds and hearts to the Vicai- that Christ has designated to bring us infallibly to the Kingdom of God.
However, movements like the Chair of Unity Octave do not have to do with the abiding duty of Catholics to make known to every creature the place he has in the Church of Christ. Rather it is a special time for utilizing the most powerful means available to us in spreading the Faith—prayer. And our prayer, like that of Christians ever since the days of the Apostles, is modeled upon and quickened by the Spirit of Jesus. It was he who first expressed the great concern that all the sheep should be in one fold and under one shepherd.
The desired result is unity. It is the unity of man within himself, the prescribed unity of all men, obtaining and expanding a supreme and eternal life, it is part of God’s Triune existence. This then is the unity we have in mind when we pray “that all may be one,” fulfilling Christ’s redemption in adhering - to the Chaii- of Peter, thus dem-
onstrating loyalty to Christ in a loyalty , to the Pontiff of Rome.
And no appeal is more urgent than that of the man who now presides ovei- the See of St. Peter, Pius XII. “Unfortunately, many are still walking far from the Catholic truth, not willing : to follow the suggestions of divine grace; and the reason is that not only they, but the faithful too, fail to intensify their prayers to God for this intention. Again and again We beg all who really love the Church, after the example of the Divine Redeemer, to have constant recourse to prayer.”
Here on the campus of Our Lady, it is to be expected that all will be highly conscious of the Octave. The ideal of its observance is not confined to the short evening services at Dillon Hall, but rather in the perpetual awareness that these eight days are set aside for true world unity.
i
3

Seven Specific Intentions
The specific intentions for each of the days are; the return of all the Oriental Schismatics, the Anglicans, the European Protestants, the American Christians, the lapsed Catholics, the conversion of the Jews, and the Missionary
J!

conquest of
In these brothers in others very
the pagans for Christ. g groups we i-ecognize our Christ. Some very remote, g close to us. These coming ||
days are an opportunity to demonstrate f < our love for God and for them. The fact that the Octave coincides with the
busy days of final exams should not be an obstacle to its success. If “to work is to pray,” then the sincere and reflective offering of the extra efforts of these days will be a potent force of intercession.
The Chair of Unity Octave starts on Tuesday, the Feast of St. Peter, who in himself is typical both of our frailty as well as our potential greatness. It ends with the Conversion of St. Paul, the symbol of what we hope is the destiny of those who persecute the Church today. He is riding hard on the way to Damascus in order to bring back the Christians to Jerusalem in chains. By a brilliant manifestation of light he is thrown off his horse and the whole course of his life is changed. “Trembling and astonished,” he asks of Jesus, “Lord, what will you have me do?”
ft
18
The Scholastic
Austere St. Ed s defies age and attacks of its residents.
' I A St. Edward’s Hall, the oldest resi-f j	dence hall on campus, is held together
: *	by ivy vines and tradition. At least
• that’s the story the several hundred f [ sophomores who live there tell.
! j On April 20, 1882, Rev. Edward F. r	Sorin, C.S.C., first president of the
[	University, laid the cornerstone for the
। four-storied building which was to be only half of its present size. Father
| Sorin was justly proud of the then 4b ultra-modem structure.
Ivy and Tradition
BY HARRY NIEMANN
put on the rear.
The hall’s growing pains continued with another one-story annex being added to the east wing in 1887. The annex was divided into a library, game room,
play hall, gymnasium, and several athletic club rooms and a clothes room. The various floors of the hall’s main section were used for so many different.
(Continued on page 33)
k The hall served as a home for more r	than 100 young boys ranging from
।	6 to 13 years of age. These “minims,”
1	as they were called, were being instruct-
I	ed under the tutoring plan then being
I	followed by Notre Dame. St. Edward’s
|	also had a staff of 13 nuns who served
I	as teachers, and three Holy Cross
I	Brothers who watched over the minims
|	in the dormitories and during their
|	recreation hours.
J A four-acre playing field ran from | the rear of St. Edward’s to the edge ( of St. Joseph’s Lake. In front of the |	hall there was a small park -with
I	flower beds and a statue of St. Edward
mounted on top of a small hill. St. Edward was the patron saint of Father Sorin.
Several years after its construction the length of St. Edward’s was almost doubled, and an additional section was
• January 14, 1955
Rev. Thomas McDonagh
Go, Johnnie Reb
19
Senate Levies
(Continued from page 9)
The Senate sponsored the first closed-circuit stadium-to-campus telecast of a football game on Nov. 20 when the Notre Dame-Iowa contest was viewed in the Drill Hall. It granted an emergency loan of $1,000 to the Student Loan Fund when an unusually high number of loans before Christmas threaten-
ration weekend was sponsored by the Senate’s physical facilities commission.
The tentative budget ate plans for spending in the second semester, on the budget is the
disclosed Sen-the tax money A major item expenditure of
Senate, will be the Junior Prom, the ■ Senior Ball, the Champion’s Ball, andj the Spring Finale dance. Further aca--demic and religious services are includ-

ed to make further loans
Weekly dances were held ate sponsorship, and the dances were underwritten
unavailable, under Sen-six major during the
$1,300 for movie projection equipment to assure campus organizations of continued campus movies.
An increased social program is planned to combat the usual second semester doldrums. More parties with St. Mary’s are planned, and trips to Chica-
ed in Senate planning.
Under Consideration

first semester. The Senate presented concerts by Ralph Marterie and the Sauter-Finegan Orchestra, and contributed to the Festival of the Aits. The four classes were appropriated $150 each to carry out class projects. Deco-
go and St. anticipated, men mixers ice skating,
Mary’s of the Woods are Sixteen round-robin fresh-are scheduled along with hall, and club parties for
the entire student body.
A series of Lenten charity parties are also on the agenda. Major dances, eithei* sponsored or underwritten by the
STUDENT SENATE BALANCE SHEET (Jan. 6. 1955)
ASSETS:
Cash .............................
Petty cash .......................
Accounts receivable:..............
Minor sports fund .............
Law Association ... Class of ’56 ...................
Dances .........................
Less reserve for underwriting Student Loan fund ..............
Miscellaneous ..................
Total assets .....................
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable:...............
Class funds:
1954 ........................
1955 ........................
1956 ........................
1957 ........................
* 1958 __________________________ Total liabilities ________________
NET WORTH:
Net worth, 9-23-54 _____________
Net income, 9-23-54 to 1-6-55 ...
Net worth, 1-6-55...............
Total liabilities and net worth __
$3556.25
250.00
1000.00
32.00
10.00
1810.00
600.00
1210.00
1000.00
137.38
$ 86.50
$7195.63
$166.60
352.80
234.94
143.75
150.00
1048.09
$1143.59
$1772.38
4288.66
6061.04
$7195.63
The preliminary plans for the reno- g vation of the Student Center Basement® are now in the hands of the Administration, announced Rev. James E. Nor-yjg ton, C.S.C., recently.	; g
They provide for a lower main lounge g of approximately the same size as the ■ Bi present first floor lounge, but more • 111! informally decorated. Club meetings, II hall mixers, and dances will be held H there while the other lounge is in use. o Card rooms, a lunch room for off-campus students, equipped with coffee and ® soft drink dispensers, and a Coke bar are also featured in the basement. The©g Coke bar could be converted into a . W ticket booth, with customers queuing in : g the lounge and leaving by the side ; g door. ’	'	|||
Offices for the Scholastic and the H Dome, with an adjacent dark room will be located on the Annex second floor, g Offices for the Campus Press, the . |1
Young Christian Students, and ous student government groups be located near each other for venience in the basement.
An innovation will be a work
and tee.
’ and and
vari-
will 8® con- Wf
shop gW
prop room for the dance commitDecorations would be constructed taken apart here, so that lumber other supplies could be reused.
place where off-campus students
can meet with their chaplain, and some 480 lockers will also be provided. A room on the first floor is being set aside for small groups who would like to listen to high-fidelity records.
After the completion of a new generator in the Nieuwland Science building, the old science building generator
TOTAL INCOME * !L, 042./3
ACT/W7Y Ff£ Of !■<* COLLECTED FROM STUDENTS AT SEPTEMBER REGISTRATION *4,544.30	TAKEN IN By SOCIAL COMMISSION THROUGH-. MIXERS, PARTIES, AND SENATE DANCES MARTERIE l SAUTER-EMECAN CONCERTS UNDERWRITING OF DANCE PROFITS *S,W.o8	MISCELLANEOUS IOWA GAME-TV. CHRISTMAS PARTY OTHER—
$
TOTAL EXPEN STS-sU.6S3.4T
profit *4?SB.U>
NFCCS /V5A SENATE OFFICES CAMPUS CLUBS MALLS PUBLECny OFF-CAMPUS UNDHPWKITIN6 Dee MfS C ELLANEOUS fZ^L/o.zq	ACADEMIC, SPIRITUAL,f PHYSICAL FACIUlUES COMMISSIONS SPENT SOCIAL COMMISSION SPENT $ 707g.9g FOR) MAR terie e saute p- fine can concerts LABOR	REFRESHMENTS^NTERTAINM^ $	PARTIES t MIXERS	TRANSPORTATION, ETC. FOR TQOE-2O FOR IOWA GAME-TV.	SENA TE DANCES TOTAL FOR ALL FOUR COMMISSIONS -	3/3. /g	EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENSES C PROFITS \3gg.LL
Si
WHIRL TUL SfNATL GOT ITS MOHTV HOWITV/kS ZPFHTtTRE PROFIT IT REALIZED FOR THE PERIOD BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 23,MS4,t ENDING JANUARY G. /OSS'
room will house the fifteen pool tables, and a dark room for the Photographers Club. A terrace for outdoor dances and parties is also being considered for the roof of the generator housing.
The Huddle will be moved into the entire first floor of the Annex.
According to Father Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, the center will pi’ovide ac
commodations for several activities to take place simultaneously. The entire Center could also be available for special dances.
The changing of the front steps is also under consideration. The beauty and facility of the basement may be improved by approaching the first floor from the sides of the front door.
Pi-eliminary plans were drawn up by
Mr. Frank Montana, dean of the Department of Architecture, and Mr. Robert Schultz.
The improvements are being financed with the help of Mr. Joe La Fortune, in whose honor the center is named. Mr. La Fortune has promised to match the receipts from the 1955 Mardi Gras with an equal amount for further improvements.

Washington Itinerary Set by Dr. Bartholomew; Thirty Students Depart for Capitol on Jan. 27
A group of approximately 30 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College will board chartered buses Thursday, Jan. 27, to begin the 14th annual between-semesters tour of Washington, D. C., and nearby historical spots. The trip is planned and supervised by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science.
The buses will take them to La Paz, Ind., where they will catch the Baltimore and Ohio’s Columbian, a diesel-powered streamliner. They will arrive early the next morning at Washington’s Union Station, and proceed immediately on a sight-seeing tour of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, FBI headquarters, the Supreme Court and Capitol buildings, Folger Shakespearean Library, and the Library of Congress.
The group will spend the night on an Old Bay Line steamer headed for Norfolk, Va. Saturday will be devoted to a trip through shrines of Revolutionary days in Jamestown, Yorktown, and Williamsburg, Va.
Returning during the night via steamer, the students will attend Sunday Mass at the Franciscan Monastery in Washington. The rest of the morning will be. used to visit Georgetown and Catholic University, Rock Creek Park and the National Zoological Gardens, Fort Meyer, Arlington Cemetery and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
After dinner, they will travel to Alexandria, Va., and then to Washington’s Tomb at Mount Vernon. Other-stops will be made at the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials before the group checks in at the Dupont Plaza, Washington’s newest hotel.
On Monday morning, they will get a panoramic view of the area from atop the Washington Monument. Points of interest on this day’s tour include the Smithsonian Institute, the Pentagon, sessions of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Archives Building and National Gallery of Art. That evening they will join Georgetown students for a dancing party at the Shoreham Hotel.
A visit to the White House will highlight Tuesday’s activities. The group will also attend a Congressional Committee hearing and more sessions of the Senate, House, and Supreme Court. Finally, at 5:40 p. m., they will board the homeward-bound train to arrive back at La Paz in time for classes on Wednesday.
Price for the entire five-and-a-half day trip is $124 per student. For those fortunate tripsters Dr. Bartholomew
22
promises the opportunity to “get a close view of your government in action, to se how it operates, and to acquaint yourselves with many of the nation’s historical landmarks.”
The group is certain to meet a number of prominent government officials. Last year Vice-President Nixon, FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover, and Indiana’s Senators Jenner and Capehart all met with the Notre Dame group.
Two new features of this year’s trip will bring the students in contact with
DR. BARTHOLOMEW
Leads the Way Again
other noted dignitaries. One is a visit to the Indian Embassy; the other, a luncheon in the executive dining room of the Pentagon.
And, as in past years, Mr. Walter Trohan, a Notre Dame alumnus now serving as chief of the Washington bureau of the Chicago Tribune, will play host to them at a party in his home. There, too, they are sure to meet national leaders and several well-known newspapermen.
Seniors Outline Initial Plans For 50th Anniversary Ball
Plans for a gala Senior Ball and week-end were announced by general chairman Jim Griffin as work began for the Golden Anniversary Ball to be held in the Drill Hall on Friday, May 14.
Because of the importance of the dance, Griffin asked “for cooperation of the class in all phases and I hope that all who can will do their part especially in decorating. By May we don’t want the Drill Hall to even resemble its present structure. We’re con
fident it will be a great week-end; and it will be that if as many as possible Bra of the class of ’55 attend.”
The entire week-end is planned to provide a gala time for the seniors. - V’ Saturday afternoon has been left open ... W though it is the custom for the upper-classmen and their dates to hold a pic- W nic. That evening between 150 and 175 ® Senior couples are expected to dance 1g again at the special dinner-dance at the H South Bend Country Club. Communion Breakfast will be served on Sunday morning at an undetermined site. W5
At this early date the dance band fe
for the Ball has not yet been chosen, nor have the ranks of the various chairmanships been filled. Chairman Griffin had no comment on the topic of the theme, but he indicated that the committee would be working extra hard on its preparation.
University Appoints WNDU-TV Sales Head
The appointment of William Thomas Hamilton as sales manager of WNDU-TV, the University’s new commercial television station, was announced recently by Bernard C. Barth, vice president and general manager of Notre Dame Radio and Television.
Hamilton, currently a network sales executive with the Columbia Broadcasting System, will assume his new duties on Feb. 1. He will direct time and program sales activities for WNDU-TV in the local, regional and national fields.
A veteran of 20 years’ sales and advertising experience in broadcasting and marketing, Hamilton joined the CBS sales organization in 1949. From 1940 to 1949 he was successively an account executive for Station WOR, New York, NBC Spot Sales and the ABC radio and television networks handling local, regional and national accounts.
Hamilton entered radio in 1938 as an account executive and assistant to the directoi- of national sales at WNEW, New York. He was a sales and merchandising representative for P. Loril-lard and Co. in 1935 and was advertising manager of Tide magazine from 1936 to 1938.
Hamilton is a member of the Board of Governors of The Radio and Television Executives Society; Co-Chairman of the Radio-Television-Advertising Industries’ Annual Communion Breakfast Committee; Secretary of the New York DeSales; and a trustee of the Board of Education in Tarrytown, N. Y.
He is a native of Chicago and attended Loomis and Roxbury Schools in Connecticut and Yale University. He is married and has a son and three daughters.
The Scholastic

I
I $ Advisory Council Created for AB College; I Twenty-Three Noted Citizens Form Group
Twenty-three men and women, nationally prominent in the liberal and fine | arts, have accepted membership on a I newly created advisory council for the University’s College of Art and Letters, according to an announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Univers-£ ity president.
Included in ^he group are Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts; actress Irene Dunne; Fritz Reiner, conductor of the Chicago Symphony; and Francis H. Taylor, director of New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Although several of the advisory council members attended an organiza-a tion meeting on the campus in October, the full group will meet for the first time in the spring, Father Hesburgh said. He explained that council members will advise Notre Dame’s liberal arts college on phases of its curriculum and on ways to enrich campus life through supplemental activities in the liberal and fine arts. They will also consult with University officials on ways in which liberal arts graduates can best serve the nation.
Other Notables On Council
Other advisory council members whose appointments were announced by Father Hesburgh include Richard E. Berlin, president of the Hearst Corporation, New York, N. Y.; Robert W. Galvin, executive vice-president of Motorola, Inc., Chicago, HL; Harry C. Haggerty, vice-president, Metropolitan A Life Insurance Co., New York, N. Y.;
Thomas H. Keating, general manager, Chevrolet Motor Division, General Motors, Corp., Detroit, Mich.; and Edgar Kobak, New York radio and television executive.
Also Leo McCarey, Hollywood producer and director; Jo Mielziner, Broadway stage designer; Mrs. Ernest M. Morris, South Bend; Charles F. Murphy of Naess & Murphy, Chicago architectural firm; Hany C. Murphy, presi-™ dent of The Burlington Lines, Chicago, III.; Bartholomew O’Toole, president of the Pullman Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, HL; Wilbur D. Peat, director of the John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis, Ind.; Martin J. Quigley, president of Quigley Publishing Co., New York, N. Y.
Additional members of the advisory council named today are Victor F. Ridder, president of the New York
B January 14, 1955
Journal of Commerce; Thomas J. Ross of Ivy Lee and T. J. Ross, New York public relations firm; Frank Sheed of Sheed and Ward, New York publishers; Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., president of Stepan Chemical Co., Chicago, 111.; Walter Trohan, chief of The Chicago Tribune's Washington bureau; and John Walker, chief curator of the National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institute, Washington D. C.
Rev. D'Arcy Added To Faculty Program
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs announced the appointment of Rev. Martin C. D’Arcy, S.J., noted British philosopher and theologian, to the University faculty. He will be only one of many internationally known scholars who are to be added to the faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
Recognized throughout the world for his scholarship, Father D’Arcy served as Master of Campion Hall, Oxford University, and as provincial of the Society of Jesus in England./His books, The Idea of God, The Problem of Evil, Thomas Aquinas, and many others, are based on his research in philosophy and theology. Among his honors are degrees awarded him by the National University of Ireland, Fordham, Georgetown, and Marquette.
Industry Supports Program
Launched in November, 1953, Notre Dame’s Distinguished Professors Program has attracted the financial support of American business and industry. From this action there will be the eventual addition of 45 eminent scholars to the Notre Dame faculty.
Scholars who have already accepted permanent or semester faculty appointments include Dr. Robert Turner, former Presidential economic advisor; Rev. Philip Hughes, renowned British Church historian; Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, vice president of the Koppers Company, Inc., named head of the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry; Dr. Charles Brambel, noted biologist and biochemist, appointed head of the Department of Biology; Dr. Joseph Becker, research physicist of the Bell Telephone Laboratories; and Dr. Vladimir Seidel, outstanding mathematician.
Alumni Association to Elect New Directors This Week
Four new directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be elected in ballots mailed this week to the University’s 25,000 graduates. The new members of the alumni board, who will serve three-year terms, will be chosen from among eight candidates nominated by alumni club presidents and class secretaries from coast-to-coast. Officers of the Association are elected annually by the twelve-man board of directors.
The nominees include Frank B. Bloemer, Jr., operator of Bloemer Food Sales Co., Louisville, Ky.; John W. Brennan, vice-president of the American Blower Co., Detroit, Mich.; J. P. Canny, general attorney for the Erie Railroad Co., Cleveland, Ohio; Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind., attorney; William F. Kerwin, Jr., vice-president and general manager of Green Bay (Wise.) Warehouses, Inc.; Emmet G. lonihan, Seattle, Wash., attorney; Leonard H. Tose, treasurer of Tose, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa., trucking firm; and Joseph E. Whalen, treasurer and general manager of Hotel Fort Des Moines, Des Moines, la.
Activities Calendar for 1955 Outlined at Senate Meeting
The Student Senate resumed work on Jan. 6 and set activities in motion for the remaining months of the 195455 school year.
The big date of the Junior’s social year was announced; May 6 will be the date of their prom. Also, two motions, a spiritual bouquet for the Pope and an investigation into the possibility of presenting “high class movies” during Lent, were passed and sent to the proper committee. The Senate nominated Tom Caplet to coordinate the student basketball trip to Chicago for the Loyola game.	.
During the meeting a campus dub Advisory board was nominated and approved. Appointed were: Robert Kunze, Met Club president; Frank Lolli, Chicago Club president; Robert McAuliffe, St. Louis Club president; Joseph McGraw, Oklahoma Club president; Robert Swindeman, .Metallurgy Club and Engineering; Richard Cook, Marketing and Commerce; James Weinlad-er, Herodotians, Le Circle Franraist, and Liberal Arts; Thomas Martin, American Chemical Society and Science; James Hesburgh, Military Club and Navy ROTC Club; John Locht, Air Cadet Club; and Patrick Robinson, Charles Staph, Robert Hiliger, and Thomas Newhouse, Spiritual Activities.
23
National Design Contest
A national design contest open to architectural students at Notre Dame has just been announced by the Tile Council of America, in cooperation with the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, New York, N. Y.
The competition requires planning the headquarters of a corporation in a suburb. In the industry concerned, clay tile is widely used foi- construction.
A first prize of $100, a second of $50, and five prizes of $25 will be awarded winning designs by the Tile Council. The council is made up of the 20 leading American manufacturers of clay floor and tile.
The contest closes May 1 and will be judged May 21. Detailed information can be obtained by writing to the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, 115 East 40th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
Gas Turbine Lecture
Dr. P. Frank Martinuzzi, professor of mechanical engineering at Stevens Institute of Technology at Hoboken, N. J., and high-ranking authority in the field of gas turbines, will be the featured speaker at an American Society of Mechanical Engineers lecture in the Law Auditorium on Jan. 15, at 7:45 p. m. All engineering students are invited.
Invited here as part of the Lecture Series under the auspices of the St. Joseph Valley section of ASME, Dr. Martinuzzi will speak on “Industrial Gas Turbines,” and will be concerned mainly with the present and future possibilities of industrial gas turbines. His speech will cover various types of gas turbines from simple to high-efficiency turbines with open, closed and semi-closed valves to automobile gas turbines.
Senior Advertising Exams
The Central and Chicago chapters of the American Association of Advertising Agencies recently announced that -they will hold examinations for seniors interested in the field of advertising.
Information and application blanks for the test can be obtained by writing the Examination Committee, P.O. Box 94, Chicago 90, Ill. Deadline for applications will be Jan. 25, with the dates for the examinations in various locations, including Notre Dame, early in February.
The fee to cover the cost of the examination is $20.
24
Enjoy yourself
refresh with Ceke
“Cokt" u o cegcttered trademark.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OB THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

Coca Cola Bottling Co of South Bend
W-RWBASX WSEFORMKK
RP—

COCA-COLA PRESENTS
THIS WEEK’S
BASKETBALL FORECASTS
Friday, Jan. 14
San Francisco U., 89; College of Pacific.
76
Saturday, Jan. 15
Duquesne, 80; Fordham, 72
Eastern Kentucky, 79; West. Kentucky, 72
Holy Cross, 96; Boston U., 55
Kentucky, 87; Tulane, 76
LaSalle, 98; Lebanon Valley, 74
Louisville, 89; Georgetown (Ky.), 61
Marquette, 78; Loyola of Chicago, 68
Michigan State, 80; Michigan, 64
Minnesota, 78; Purdue, 59
Missouri, 90; Kansas State, 82
Niagara, 85; Colgate, 67
North Carolina State, 83; Wake Forest, 75
Notre Dame, 72; Northwestern, 70
Ohio State, 75; Illinois, 70
St. Louis U., 80; Bradley, 61
Wisconsin, 69; Indiana, 65
Monday, Jan. 17
Indiana, 73; Michigan State, 63
Kentucky, 97; Louisiana State, 70
Northwestern, 88; Purdue, 75
&
&
This was fine during the ‘78’ era, but with the birth of ‘L-P.’s’ Harry found the nosing a little rough and the music not up to snuff. Then his best friend told him about Transcriber's custom re-tipping service and he mailed us his nose (First Class, of course).
We retip any needle with diamond . . . make it like new again.
So if your needle has had its day, remove it from the cartridge*. Scotch-tape it to a piece of cardboard and mail to Transcriber. Our experts will straighten and strengthen the shank . . . custom re-tip it with a new guaranteed diamond. You’ll boost your Fi and save your records. Total cost? Only 10.50 postpaid. 48 hour service.
can't remove needle, rend entire cartridge.

ad
lUMKnm COMPANY
Diamond Stylut Atanvfacturera
M Piaa l»rwt NO 2 DEPT. Attlabare* Mau.
¥
&
The Scholastic W

Scholastic Sports
IRISH FACE WILDCATS BEFORE LAYOFF
Nine Novice Champs Look Toward Bengals
Nine new champions were crowned in the annual novice boxing tournament completed recently. These nine fighters were among the 49 who entered the tournament.
Each boxer in the novice tournament
Heavy Novice Action
Bob Kelly Jolted by Charlie Connor
is eligible to enter the Bengal Bouts, held in March. The fine showing of Stepan, Manning, Queally, Noznesky, and Connor in the novice tournament gave Bengal candidates fair warning that they would be strong contenders. Mr. Napolitano stated, “The group this year was one of the finest and most evenly matched that I have ever had 0 the pleasure of training.”
RESULTS
125 Al Stepan of Farley over Jim Lyne of Dillon.
130 Frank Manning of Howard over Roy Barnes I	of Farley.
147 Tom Queally of Morrissey over Ciro Tantillo of St. Edward’s.
140 Pete Maroney of Sorin over John Reiss of Farley.
157 Ros Bottum of Zahm over Maclyn Black of Zahm.
165 Pete Noznesky of Lyons over Bob Williams of Howard.
170 Jim Brunot of Zahm over Frank Reilly of Morrissey.
177 John Boyle of Dillon over Tighe Woods of Zahm.
Heavy Charlie Connor of Howard over Bob Kelly from Off-Campus.
• January 14, 1955
j
Cagers Seek Eighth Victory Tomorrow;
Loyola, MSC, Bradley Open Second Half
Coach Johnny Jordan’s Irish quintet will play a return engagement with the Northwestern basketball crew tomorrow night at Evanston before taking a three-week exam period respite from the 1954-55 season competition.
The Irish possess a 7-6 record at the halfway mark.
Jack Stephens continues to lead the Irish scorers, although he went cold on the Eastern tour, with 282 points. John Smyth took over second place in the Holy Cross game when he notched 17 points for a 179 total. Lloyd Aubrey is close behind with 174. Bill Weiman and Lee Ayotte are the only other effective scorers with 76 and 64 points.
Following the layoff, the Notre Dame squad will square off against Loyola in Chicago on Feb. 5, Michigan State at home on Feb. 7, and Bradley here on Feb. 10.
Coach Waldo Fisher’s Northwestern team has a better won-lost percentage than the Irish show for the season so
Irish Rack-up Butler in Last Home Game, 83-58
Stephens Shakes Loose	Rebounders Apply Pressure
25
far, even though the Irish have won more games.
The Wildcat cagers have been victorious in six of nine games, winning over Western Michigan, Tulane, Louisiana State, Butler, Princeton, and Minnesota. Losses were to Notre Dame, Butler, and Purdue.
In Notre Dame’s first meeting with Northwestern on Dec. 8, the Irish won at home by a 79-69 count.
Frank Ehmann, Hal Grant, and Dick Mast continue to pace the Northwestern aggregation. Ehmann hit 14 goals, scoring 33 points against Purdue last % Saturday, and in the upset victory over Minnesota the three players accounted for 57 of the 74-point team total.
Ehmann, a 6-3 senior, is a speedy forward and one of the Big Ten’s top scorers. Grant, an aggressive 6-6 senior forward, carries an impressive field goal percentage. Mast, a promising sophomore, delights in long range set shots.
Walt Stoeppelwerth, senior guard and
FRANK EHMANN
Waldo’s Wildest Wildcat
captain, shines on defense and is an all-around floor operator.
The Loyola team will also be taking its second shot this season at Notre Dame when the two teams meet in Chicago Stadium on Feb. 5.
Notre Dame bested the Chicagoans, 89-76, in a pre-Christmas engagement on the Irish court. Loyola has yet to win from the Irish in the twelvegame series between the two schools.
This year’s team, though more experienced than the hard-put Eamblers of a year ago, still lacks height. Jack Carpenter, at 6-5, is the tallest member of the squad and holds down the . center position.
Bill Palka, 6-2, and Art Shalk, 6-1, man the forward positions. Palka led the team in scoring last season as a sophomore. Shalk, team captain, has speed and drive as well as a long shot that usually runs his scoring into two figures.
Jerry Lyne, who tied Palka for Loyola scoring honors in the first game with ND in December, plays guard.
i Paul Krucker, the other guard, is the • only sophomore on the first string.
; Michigan State will have the added ! experience of playing six more games i before the Spartans pay the Irish a i visit on Feb. 7. Notre Dame has beaten ; the Staters 51 times in the 71-game ; series stretching back to 1908.
i Michigan State will come to Notre i Dame with a new coach in charge. [ Former coach at Bradley, Forrest Anderson, is attempting to put across his new fast break system at East Lansing this year. He has an experienced team of only average height, which suffers along with the Irish from lack of depth.
This year’s team set a new single game scoring record in the first game
26	.
of the season by ripping through the Marquette defenses, and in its first conference victory over Wisconsin last Saturday, the team replaced that mark with another record high.
Al Ferrari and Julius McCoy are State’s experienced forwards. Ferrari specializes in a one-handed jump shot and was named the team’s “Most Valuable” player the past two years. He holds the all-time MSC scoring record. McCoy is a consistent hitter and often takes team scoring honors.
The Spartans have two talented centers in Bob Armstrong, 6-8, and Duane Peterson, 6-7. Armstrong is also used at forward.
Guards are Bob Devenny and Walt Godfrey, both highly capable cage art-
AL FERRARI
All-Time Spartan Scoring Leader
ists. The MSC squad has seven returning lettermen this year to Notre Dame’s three.
Coach Bob Vanetta also has seven monogram men to bolster his team at Bradley. The Braves, consistent winners and upsetters of last year’s ND team, have had a break-even season so far this year in twelve games played under the new coach.
Senior Center Barney Kilkullen, at 6-9, is the tallest player in Bradley’s history and is expected to develop into a more valuable player as the season progresses.
Jack Gower, a fast junior, and Jerry Hansen, accurate on jump shots, are the forwards. Lee O’Connell, a guard so far this season, will graduate at the semester and leave the guard positions manned by Harvey Babetch, an inconsistent hitter but one hard to stop once he gets started, and John Kent, the top scoring threat for the Braves this season. Babetch broke the all-time Bradley scoring mark earlier in the year.
Irish Take Second; Wrestle Miami Next
Notre Dame’s wrestling team rallied last Saturday to defeat Findlay College of Ohio 18-14 for its second straight mat victory of the season in a dual meet at Findlay.
The Notre Dame wrestlers will be looking for their third win in a row tomorrow when they meet Miami of Ohio at Miami. They will make their first home appearance against Assumption College of Canada on Jan. 29.
A timely pin by Notre Dame’s heavyweight Bob Salvino over Larry Centis in 4:08 of the final match enabled the young Irish squad to come from behind and win.
The Notre Dame wrestlers got off to a slow start as they lost their first two matches. Jerry McAdoo of Findlay pinned Buddy Day in 8:43 in the 123-pound scrap. In the 132-pound class, Andy Habe made it two straight for Findlay by outpointing Bob Gordon 1810.
Notre Dame rebounded to win the next three matches and gain the lead. Bob Pivanka began the rally by pinning Andy Sedlah in 4:28 in the 137-pound match. Terry Crowley followed by beating Findlay’s Dick Dellapine in the 147-pound scrap. ND’s 157-pound entry, Pat Williamson, then made short work of Eldon Cronfir by pinning him in the fast time of 2:52.
The Findlay matmen regained the slim lead by winning decisions in the 167 and 177-pound contests. John Stas-chiak and Bob Comos of Findlay edged Chuck Henzy 4-2 and Jack Armstrong 5-1, respectively.
In the final match, Salvino pulled out the meet victory for Notre Dame by pinning his opponent.
X-Country Squad Picks Gits Honorary Captain for 1954
Jack Gits, 21 year old senior from River Forest, Illinois, was elected honorary captain of the 1954 Notre Dame cross country squad. The election was held by team members following their first meet with Michigan Normal, but the outcome was withheld until the season’s end.
Gits never ran track in high school and credits his success to track coach
Alex Wilson and the opportunity of being able to run with one of the finest Notre Dame teams in recent years. i This was his best year as he com-	i
peted in eight meets, finished in a triple	1
tie for first against Marquette, placed fourth in the Central Collegiate meet, and fifth in the state meet.
The Scholastic &
h Pro-Ball—American or
Canadian?
By PAUL FULLMER
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence—or at least ! on the other side of the border.
. This is the month that the Canadian ;	and U. S. pro teams go all out for top
‘	collegiate football talent.
*' £ Two 1954 backs at Notre Dame— !	John Lattner and Tom McHugh—
i	immediately made their mark with
;	the pros. Notre Dame again has its
j	top seniors shopping around for con-
;i	tracts. Ralph Guglielmi, Sam Palumbo,
and Frank Varrichione are the three top choices on the Irish list, according to the pro talent hunters.
]	Grads Star In Both Leagues
1 £ None of the Irish has made a move i	yet in the contract department. Gug-
j	lielmi says, “We’re going to sit tight
1 until the National League draft. Then ‘ we’ll weigh the offers and decide.”
The Canadians are throwing bundles ‘ ■ of money around and Palumbo states, “I’ll go wherever they offer the most »	money—Canada or the U. S.” Guglielmi
wonders, “Where they get all that money up there?”
j McHugh signed with Ottawa in the ! Canadian circuit, while Lattner pen" ned a lucrative contract with the Pitts-
,	burgh Steelers before this year’s cam-
<	paign.
And just what do these two boys, i	who checked in with highly successful
.	freshman seasons, think about the re>	spective leagues? Would they go back
again or are they shopping around for
JOHN LATTNER “They’re Harder To Fool”
another employer?
Lattner, everybody’s All-American halfback who copped the Heisman and Maxwell trophjes, was the Steelers first draft choice. Coach Walt Kies-ling switched Lattner to left half and John started the season with a bang, notching early touchdowns and grabbing headlines.
He learned his pro lessons well and Coach Kiesling called him his “do everything” player and a “real coachable” back. “He’s a 100 per cent try guy. I wish I had a team full of Lattners,” Kiesling added.
The difference between college and pro ball didn’t go unnoticed by Lattner. “They’re harder to fool up here. They don’t have many weaknesses. In college you’re often tackled only by one player, but here that gang tackling really shakes you up.”
Cites Canadian Pros and Cons.
John was most effective on punt and kickoff returns, and he led the Steelers in both departments. His season total of 42 points was good for second place on the Pittsburgh eleven.
Lattner will wind up an action-packed season next Sunday that began back in August with the All-Star game when he performs with the Eastern All-Stars in the Pro Bowl game.
While Lattner was romping through his maiden year with the American “play for pay” boys, McHugh enjoyed a tough luck year in Canadian ball. The Ottawa squad was the doonnat of the league and Tom injured his knee with four games remaining.
The ban on downfield blocking was the big thorn in Canadian ball, according to McHugh. His coaches felt that Tom adapted well to the game, however, and shaped up well before his injury sidelined him.
Tom admits that the Canadian game is a little tough on plunging fullbacks. “There are only three downs allowed, and you have to pass on second down if you don’t gain at least six yards on first down.”
There are only ten Americans on each team and the club with the best crop of homegrown talent will usually go all the way. “Naturally you couldn’t expect it to be on a plane with our professional football here in the states, since we don’t have the manpower to be considered in the same class.”
McHugh likes the playing conditions north of the border. “It is just like
TOM McHUGH "It’s a Swell Place to Play”
anywhere else, if you are winning, you get the crowds.”
The Canadian exhibition season is the same week as the All-Star game and many American players have passed up the big salaries to play in the classic. Guglielmi’ says, “If I do sign with a Canadian team, my contract will allow me time off for the AllStar game.” Most American players are now insisting on this clause.
Guglielmi Will Weigh Both Sides
McHugh still holds Canadian football ia high regard. “I liked Canadian football very much and would like to return if I don’t have to go into the Army. Contrary to many reports, it is a swell place to play football and many of the fellows like it so well that they move their families up and make a permanent thing out of it.”
This leads to the biggest Canadian selling point, off-season employment. A fat salary, good living conditions, and a profitable job is tough bait for the college senior to ignore.
The lure doesn’t seem to turn Lattner’s head because he has already inked his 1955 contract with the Steelers.
Maybe the grass isn’t greener on the other side of the fence.
“I’ll definitely take these factors into consideration before making my final decision. The chance that a poor team may draft me will also affect my choice,” Guglielmi states.
27
! ^January 14, 1955
sflin,ets f^tlle fmsbn
by Paul Fullmer
Robert Hall, chairman of the 1952 NCAA TV committee that set up the present system of TA7 limitations (not the plain pipe rack), wrote in a recent issue of Sports Illustrated that Notre Dame is ready to sink the athletic programs of all other colleges in its eagerness to monopolize the TA7 dollar. This set the stage for another futile battle by ND, the Big Ten, and the Pacific Coast Conference to rid itself of the shackles of an outmoded policy.
The NCAA sometimes shakes one’s faith in democracy when a majority can consistently block the efforts of a minority faction that proposes legislation that will put new life into college football and help thwart the inroads of pro football. ND officials purposely ,.... . ... -s. kept in the background this year and let the Big Ten carry the ball, but it still was no go. Collegiate football attendance was up last year and continued interest can only be sustained through promotion — promotion that finds its strength in a TA7 policy that allows the viewer the game of his choice.
Let’s hope for the best. Maybe the Eastern < block will some day see that it is only cutting • its own throats and consent to a sane, control- i led program that will allow regional telecast- ? ing and a contented public. It’s not only dol-lars that ND wants, but also sanity.	M
Herb Jones, Notre Dame’s competent business manager, was elected president of the NCAA’s Business Managers’ Association last week
ing. Jones has been business manager here since 1940 and has one of the toughest jobs in the athletic panorama. During his undergraduate days, Jones was student secretary for Knute Rockne. He has made Notre Dame athletics his life work and is very well respected nationally.
HERB JONES
at the New York meet-
Jordan Has His Problems This Year
The horrendous defeat at the hands of Holy Cross’ Crusaders equalled the worst all-time Notre Dame defeat and probably squelched any bid to the NCAA or NIT meets. The Crusaders hit on 55 per cent of their shots against the Irish and just couldn’t seem to miss. Stephens and the rest of the team were really down in the dumps upon their return Tuesday. “What can you say about that Holy Cross game?” Junior wondered.
The Irish, however, found the portable floors in the East “dead” and this hampered the passing and cutting. It took a half to get used to the floor in Madison Square Garden before ND began to function. The New York papers gave credit to Johnny Jordan’s two “left tackles,” Aubrey and Smyth, for their powerful work under the boards in the NYU contest.
The Northwestern game tomorrow at Evanston will be your first opportunity to see the Irish in their new green traveling uniforms. The Sugar Bowl saw the old golds for the last time. In winning the Sugar Bowl tourney, ND placed both Stephens and Smyth on the all-tournament five.
Shannon, Matz, and Varrichione Captain Post-season Teams
Five senior grid greats played their final game of the season over the holidays in charity affairs and three of the boys were elected co-captains of their squads. Dan Shannon, Ralph Guglielmi, and Joe Heap played in the East-West game, with Shannon again pulling down a co-captaincy. Paul Matz, who led the 1954 .Irish with Shannon, was co-captain of the Blue team in Birmingham’s Blue-Gray game. Sam Palumbo and Frank VaiTichione participated in the North-South fracas, and Varrichione led his Northern mates.
Bowlers Tip St. Joe's; Air Cadets Hold LeadTl
Bowling was the order of last weekend as the Irish Keglers beat St. Jos- : eph College by 267 pins and the cam- ; pus league resumed play.
At Valparaiso on Saturday, Bob Fili- i piak paced the Notre Dame bowlers with a tidy 934 points. In all, the Irish
dumped 4,400 of a possible hosts.
Sunday in
pins and took
eleven
points
nine from
out the H
South
Bend,
the
Cadet Club continued
to dominate
Air the
Blue League of the Campus Keglers. i The Fly-boys tied the Architects 2-2. i Over in the Gold League, the A.I.E.E. I team relieved Toledo of first place. I Toledo was beaten 3-0 by the Met I Club, and the Engineers shut out the I LaRaza Club 4-0.	|
Current Irish varsity leader is Jim | Haering with a 176 average. He turned^* in a 223 performance last week for the best individual game of the afternoon. |
Tomorrow the Irish host Loyola at | the Palais Royale. After that they do | not bowl again until Feb. 19 because g of the examination layoff. That match | is with St. Joe’s again.	I
Milwaukee’s Gschwind rolled the after- | noon high game of 232 to tie the high | single score. Jim Haering of A.I.E.E. | also holds the high average title in | this league. His 184 tops Bob Filipiak, Buz Velotta and Joe Baumie in that department.	|
Wolverines Cop Six Firsts
A
1
A powerful University of Michigan p gymnastic team spurted to a first event fe 13 to 3 lead on the trampoline, and then |‘i climbed steadily to a stunning 70 to 26 victory over Notre Dame in the Dnll^M
Hall last Saturday. Michigan was in full command all afternoon, grabbing first place in each of the six events.
The Notre Dame gymnasts will be idle this week-end, but will make a bid for their first triumph of the season Jan. 22 when they host Northwestern. The meet will be held at 2 p. m. in the Navy Drill Hall. Then, after another week’s layoff, they will travel to Evanston on Feb. 5, for a return engagement with the Wildcats.	*
On Feb. 12, they battle Indiana, their fourth straight Big Ten opponent.
On Feb. 18 the Irish return home to face Pittsburgh in a night match beginning at 7:30.
For Notre Dame Ev Hatch had eight points, including a second place; Reggie Grimm and Dan Healy seven apiece; Mark Healy three, and Rocco Tannone one.
£
28
The Scholastic^
Touring Swedish Gymnasts Return Feb. 2; 0 Renowned Line-up Features Olympic Stars
The Swedish National Men’s gymnastic team will return to Notre Dame on Feb. 2 to perform in the Fieldhouse at 8 p. m. This year the Swedish National and Olympic Women’s team will also appear in this return engagement.
A group of twelve women and 14 men will present a two-hour program of new Q and modern synchronized calisthenics, tumbling, vaulting, apparatus work, high table leaping, graceful balancebeam skills, and the world’s best freestanding routines.
This line-up will be presented 32 times in the United States on this twomonth good-will tour. Their travels will take them to colleges, universities, and Athletic clubs in the East, Midwest and South.
6 Two coaches handle the team. Garin Delden coaches the girls and Erik Linden trains the boys. Miss Delden has headed the national women’s group since 1949. She led her team to the 1950 world’s championship and the 1952 Olympic free standing title.
Mr. Linden is the creator of Swedish competitional gymnastics and is responsible for its high position today. He has coached national teams since the first one was constituted in 1945.
W Advanced reports say that this is the finest group of amateur gymnasts ever to appear in the United States. Both teams have been chosen from test competition and national meets with Norway. It includes 1952 Olympic per
Swedish Olympic Artists Perform Synchronized Calisthenics
Visitors Show Perfect Form in Straddle Toe-Touch Routine
formers and members of the team that represented Sweden at the World’s Championships in 1954.
This year the feminine group has been added to the program that was so warmly received here a year ago. The girls team, first in ’52 Olympic team drill, will exhibit graceful and streamlined precision exercises and gymnastic numbers.
Feature Precision Routine
Included in the ladies’ ranks are Ann-Sofi Pettersson and Karin Linde-berg. Miss Pettersson won the world’s flying rings championship in 1950 and horse vaulting title at the World’s Championships last year. Miss Linde-berg, another Olympic performer, is considered one of the best all-around performers in 'Sweden.
The men have their “big namers” too. Kurt Wigartz, former junior all-around champion and member of the last Olympic team, is rated the best gymnastic performer in Sweden today. The men have another ex-junior champion, Reijo Nieminen, a horizontal bar specialist. He won his title in 1949.
Sweden’s ambassadors of good will have always been noted for effortless grace and simplicity of style. Especially exciting is the lightning speed tumbling executed by the men. One of the women’s prized numbers is the team ball composition. This routine won an Olympic gold medal.
Fencers Face Opener In Iowa on Saturday
Notre Dame’s fencers will attempt to uphold their reputation as one of the nation’s fencing giants when they engage Iowa and Michigan State in a triangular meet at Iowa City tomorrow.
Last year, the Irish compiled a 12-1 record, with the Ione loss sustained at the hands of Wisconsin early in the season. They finished the season with ten straight wins and tied for eighth place in the NCAA meet.
The team, coached by Walter Langford, has one of the best records of all Notre Dame athletic teams in the past few years. They have lost only eight meets in the last six years. The record is probably more significant when it is considered that most of the fencers came to Notre Dame with no previous experience.
The team was hit hard by graduation, with Co-Captains Jim Waters and Tom Dorwin, the only returning regulars. It has been necessary for Coach Langford to look to his sophomores for help. Those who have showed most promise are Joe Blazina and Pierre du-Vair in the foil division, and Dennis Hemmerle in the epee division.
In the foil division, Langford will use Waters, Don Dixon, and Bill Fox. Following in order behind them will probably be Blazina, Jack Friel, du-Vair, Julio Vizcarrondo, and Jim Burlage.
Dorwin will lead the Irish in the sabre division, followed by Gene Gasse, and Frank Dwan. Either Ed Koester, Bob Eichelman, or Dave Friske will fill the number four position.
In the epee division, which was rm-defeated last year, Langford will call on Don Tadrewski, Jerry Isaacs, and John Brogan.
Co-Captain Waters sums up ND’s chances on an optimistic note, “We have a green team with an extra amount of fight and we should give a good account of ourselves.”
“We are pointing especially for Wisconsin and Ohio State,” said Dorwin, “If we win at Iowa City, we’ll shoot for the school record of 17 straight wins.”
Langford expressed hope that the team will approach last year’s record, but realizes that to do so, “Several inexperienced men will have to come through.”
Inexperience and strengthened opposition provide the challenge for the coming season. Langford says Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio State, Wayne, and Detroit appear to be the strongest teams on the schedule.
^January 14, 1955
29
Track Team Ready; Meet Purdue Feb. 5
Coach Alex Wilson’s Irish tracksters have been working out for the past three weeks in the fieldhouse preparing for their indoor opener with Purdue on Feb. 5. The Irish will be led by Co-Captains Al Schoenig and Jim Pitcavage.
Co-Capt. Pitcavage, letterman Alex Pestrichella, Tom Rohrer, and Frank Hall will ran for the Irish in the 60, 100, and 220 yard dashes.
Letterman Denny Malec is the number one man in the 440, while Co-Capt.
Al Schoenig, Dick O’Keefe, Bill Copeland, all monogram winners, and Al Porter will set the paces in the 880.
Bill Squires, holder of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse record for the mile, is being counted on as one of the top collegiate milers. He will be backed by Jack Gits and John Linehan.
The two-milers consist of lettermen
Jim “Spike” Daly, John Michno,
and
Neil
In lard, leads
Wallace.
the other field events Bernie who has jumped as high as
Al-
6-6,
in the high jump. Ben Zajeski is
the only returning letterman in the shot. Monogram winner Roy Morris is leading in the broad jump, and Jim
Baker and Jim Westerman are counted on as hurdlers.
The two top contenders in the pole vault are Jim Redmond and Ross Mat-son.
Feb. 5 12 26
Mar. 5 12 19 26
April 2 23 29-30
Mav 7 14 18
June 4 19
SCHEDULE
Purdue, here
Michigan, away
Indiana, away
Central Meet. Indianapolis
Chicago Relays, Chicago
Cleveland Relays, Cleveland Milwaukee Relays. Milwaukee
Texas Relays. Dallas
Drake Relays, Lawrence
Drake Relays, Des Moines
Missouri, away
Pittsburgh, here
State Meet. Bloomington
Central Outdoor Meet. Milwaukee NCAA, Site undetermined

BM
LEADING PRODUCER OF ELECTRONIC AND ELECTRIC ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTING MACHINES, TIME EQUIPMENT AND ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS.
J
$
J
What you should know about International Business Machines
International Business Machines Corporation is one of America’s leading engineering, manufacturing and selling organizations, serving business, industry, government, science and education.
You’ll be joining a company with a 40-year record of growth, stable employment, and one of the lowest employee turnover records in the country.
Your future will be as big as you make it, with advancement entirely on merit.
trade-mark
OFFERS EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES TO
QyvorS and
CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
February 10
If your degree or major is;
Liberal Arts • Business • Accounting
Engineering • Mathematics . . . .
Sign interview schedule for;
Sales
Physics • Mathematics • Engineering
Applied Science
0

I
4
E£-
n
£

Excellent salary and employee benefit program with life-long advantages for you and your family.

Physics • Mechanical • Electrical
Engineering Physics...........
. Engineering
s
Industrial • Electrical • Mechanical
Manufacturing
Complete initial training in each of the employment classifications listed.
Accounting • Administration Management • Auditing . .
Business Administration
CALL YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR APPOINTMENT, TODAY 1
4
If you cannot attend interviews, write for more information to Mr. B. N. Luther International Business Machines Corporation 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
Sales and Service Offices in Principal Cities throughout the U. S.

30
The Scholastic
ALL ABOUT TOBACCO... INCLUDING SEVERAL REASONS WRY
Edgeworth Never Bites Your Tongue
Some brands give you shorts and ■ bits which burn ’ like tinderfast and hot.
Others give you > fine-cut e shreds —good । for cigarettes, r but not so good for pipes.
Only Edgeworth gives you slow-burning ’■chunks" made for pipes and pipes alone
Has Never Been Equalled
Your true tobacco expert will tell you that white hurleys are the world’s coolest smoking tobaccos. Edgeworth is a blend of white burleys only— aged like fine wine, for years. Of course, other tobaccos use white burley too—but nobody yet has found out just how to blend and process tobacco to give it the even-burning, cool-smoking character that Edgeworth “Ready-Rubbed” has maintained.
What “Ready-Rubbed” Means to Your Smoking Pleasure
Old time smokers knew the secret of cool, even burning. They carefully
This Amazing Punch Means Cooler Smoking!
Forgotten in tackle-box—Edgeworth Still Fresh One fisherman friend of ours left an unopened Edgeworth pouch in his tackle box for a year. When he found it the tobacco was still moist and cool smoking.
“hand-rubbed” their tobacco until it crumbled into chunks of just the right size. Now Edgeworth does all this for you before the tobacco is packaged. An ingenious exclusive process “ready-rubs” Edgeworth into chunks that pack right in your pipe, giving you a cool, leisurely smoke with never a touch of tongue bite.
YOURE SMARTER SMOKING
Edgeworth tobacco leaves our plant with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because only Edgeworth has the Seal-Pak pouch. Sealed air-and-water tight, it promises you fresher tobacco than any other type of pocket pack. No bulky corners in your pocket either.
FOR A COOL MIXTURE TRY HOLIDAY A “custom” blend of five tobaccos selected for mildness and aroma. The only mixture in the Seal-Pak pouch.
Address.
City____
Get this new polished aluminum stem “Park Lane” pipe with interchangeable imported briar bowl and exclusive “dri-dome’ moisture trap—along with 2 full-sized pouches of EDGEWORTH tobacco. If your dealer cannot supply you, use this handy order blank.
Name
Edgeworth
AMERICA’S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO FOR OVER HALF A CENTURY L
I January 14,1955
SAEOM4 OFFER ?5O
.State.
Mail with $1.50 to Park Lane, Lams & Brother Company, Inc., Richmond, Virginia.
CM-1
t
I I
I
31
All Local Jazz Addicts and Any Others eager to be Initiated as SLAVES into the RITES of this MODERN CULT, are
win him
To Be In Attendance at the FIELD HOUSE — SATURDAY
FEBRUARY 12 at 2 p. m.
For One of the Biggest Bashes This Campus has seen in a
Long While
TICKETS may be obtained at The DINING HALL on
JANUARY 18, 19, 20
From 5 — 7 P. M.
ADMISSION—50^
Symposium to Discuss Fate of Central Europe
The fate of East Central Europe will be the main topic of discussion at a symposium prepared by Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz in the Law auditorium on Feb. 11.
The first part of the forum, will be a dissertation on the course of American foreign policy. It will feature Philip E. Mosely, of Columbia University, relating the effect of American diplomacy in the East Central European
area from
1941 to 1947. Robert F.
Byrnes, of the Mid-European Studies Center will then bring the symposium up to date on the same topic.
Nicholas Spulber, of Indiana Uni-
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
SKI BOOTS
ARMY SURPLUS $35.00 VALUE
ONLY $11.50 POSTPAID
Order by shoe size Enclose check or money order.
Beautiful, sturdy construction made by famous name manufacturers to adhere to strict government regulations. Goodyear rubber cleated traction outsole and heel. 2 extra heavy felt insulating insoles. Built-in steel safety toe. Solid brass sole clamps. All sizes for men and ladies. Water repellent boot laces.
M & W Sales Co. P.O. Box 14283
' Houston, 21, Texas
versity, will cap the background ma-1 fl terial by exposing the problems of the J East-West trade and economic trends^ in the enslaved countries.	V
The recent problem of enslavement K will be put to general discussion and I will be followed by special cases deal- 1 ing with Finland, Austria, and Yugo- | slavia.	a
The national problems of the Baltics, 1 Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, i Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria, and Al- I bania will be presented by noted men 1 from Fordham, Harvard, and Notre^J Dame Universities.	B
The final event of the symposium will g feature Alvin M. Bentley, United States g Representative on Foreign Relations, fl describing American ideas and concepts fl for a free East Central Europe. fl
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI
RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS
Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight
Now Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.
537 North St. Louis
Five Minutes from the Campus

Do Mhl Know How to HmoCood.ta?


s
If you really want to get more fun out of life... to enjoy the thrill of meeting new people . . . making new friends, then decide right now to pay a visit to Arthur Murray’s. ' Learn about our exciting Student Parties at which you meet new people, dance with many different partners in a gay, informal atmosphere. Learn, too, about our new quicker way to improve your dancing, the Arthur Murray Magic Step method. You’ll be surprised how quickly and easily you catch on to the latest popular steps. You start dancing right away, at the very first lesson.
So stop passing up good times. Come in today and see how much more fun and new popularity can be yours when you learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
Arthur Murray
120 E. WAYNE
'It’s fun for us, too, to help shy people quickly develop into popular dancing partners with complete confidence,” says Joyce Lyons.
Ph. 2-3339
The Scholastic^: I
I Ivy and Tradition
J (Continued from page 19) purposes that it was a complete school in itself.
For a number of years the department continued to grow, but enrollment started to drop around the turn of the century when more country schools were being built. In 1925, Knute Rockne, who was head Notre Dame football coach at the time, received his first Holy Communion with his small £ son, one of the few minims left.
The school was finally discontinued
in 1929 and the hall was remodeled by Professor Vincent Fagan, of the Department of Architecture for the exclusive use of university students. The building, with accommodations for 200 students, was ready for occupancy on September 12 of the 1929-30 school year.
Today, the interior of the building has been patched and repainted several times, and the elaborate garden with St. Edward’s statue has disappeared.
Someday St. Edward’s will crumble into dust. It’s hard to tell if it will be this year or next, but whatever the date, the old hall will be remembered.
Plans Now Complete
(Continued from page 9) the first big dance of the semester and the last one until after Easter, so no one should wait too long before buying his.”
The chairmen of the various dance committees are: Larry Buckley, business manager; Jack Flynn, tickets and favors; John Lochtefeld, decorations; Bernie Smyth, refreshments; Steve Surbrook, entertainment; and Jack Casey, publicity and room accommodations.
Start your career with a company famous for Creative Engineering. Your knowledge might be a" natural” for the product engineering activity offered in these diversified lines at:
Bendix Products Division
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION
South Bend, Indiana
AVIATION
GU.IDED MISSILES
AUTOMOTIVE
Fuel Systems—Controls and fuel metering devices for jet and reciprocating engines.
Landing Gear — Shock absorbing struts, wheels, brakes and hydraulic controls.
Systems analysis, guidance, steering intelligence, propulsion, hydraulics, telemetering.
Brakes, power brakes, power steering, hydraulic controls for passenger cars, trucks and buses.
Talk over your career plans with the Bendix representative. Mechanical, aeronautical and electronic engineers should register with your Placement Director now.
Interviews — February 11
^January 14, 1955
33

the M page
erendum. How did you give the Sen-i ate any power to govern you? Isn’tr this delegation of authority voluntary?*
Entering this student society certain- , ly is voluntary, but as soon as we vote, in a campus election, or as soon as we. actively share in the benefits of this
by Don Yeckel
society, the choice and the means to thority, have been representatives. If
is made. Authority, carry out that au-delegated to elected we don’t choose to
sizable amount of money. They did this soberly and slowly, not only because the sum of money was so large, but. because they had a very obvious Tealization of the responsibility that had been given to them by their fellow students and by the University.
A striking example of this responsible and objective attitude lies in the "background of that 75 cent figure. Several people who were not at the meeting commented later that the figure might just as well have been a dollar. They felt that 25 cents wasn’t a very great burden on anyone, and that some good use could certainly be made of the money. But the Senators didn’t think of that 25 cent difference in this -way. They thought of 25 cents multiplied by 4,000 students—$1,000 entrusted to them to spend. Nor did they say ■to themselves, “We can collect so much money. Some of it we can spend on "this thing and that, and the rest we can always find a use for.” They thought rather of the needs of the .student body and the services to be performed, and then of how much money would be needed to do these things. There’s a great difference of attitude in these two ways of looking at a quarter.
Another difficult problem had to be solved. Should the payment of the tax "be enforced? After some vigorous discussion, a motion was passed to exclude from all Senate activities any-•one who had not paid the activities fee.
It seems a matter of simple justice ■that only those who contribute money -should receive the benefits of that in-westment. It would be unjust to those -who do pay if we allow those who do
It is Monday, January 10th. Tonight the Notre Dame Student Senate held a special meeting to determine whether a Student Senate activities fee should be collected for the coming spring semester. Tonight I learned something.
I’ve often heard it said that student government is a part of the education of a college student. Tonight I discovered that I never really knew what that statement meant, even though I had seen just about every phase of student government at Notre Dame. A pleasant generality became a reality.
The Senate voted to collect a 75 cent tax for the coming semester. The amount isn’t important. What is more important is the way that the Senate went about deciding this amount. A group of ordinary young men sat down to discuss the collecting and spending of a
enter this society, we can’t share in the activities paid other people’s money.
Suppose that we agree that
honestly
for
this
thority ought to be delegated, but

by ]
C au- । we I
34
not pay to receive the same services. On the other hand, non-enforcement would be a positive expression of trust in the student body and would help development in responsibility.
Here another delicate problem had to be solved, and another important decision to be made. The decision was made in the same way as the first, reasonably and objectively.
■So maybe it really means something to say that student government is a part of education, an education in responsibility. But does it mean anything to the average student who does not directly participate in student government?
If paying taxes is a responsibility at all, then we learn something by freely choosing to pay. The term “moral responsibility” was even used tonight to describe this obligation. If paying this activities fee is really a “moral responsibility,” the average student can learn something by paying it, just as the Senators learned something by voting for it.
But the question can be asked—and actually was asked tonight—where on earth the Student Senate gets the authority to oblige students to give it a dollar, or 75 cents, or even a nickel.
The answer is easy: the Senate gets the power from you and me and every other student. Three years ago the students conducted a referendum of the whole student body, and the present Senate was constituted and given certain powers. The power to tax was one of those powers.
But if you’re a freshman, sophomore, or junior, you didn’t vote in that ref-
don’t like the way that it’s used. How | are we bound then?	I
fa
First we can do everything -in our g power to change the way the authority j is being used, by speaking to our rep- | resentatives, by gaining the floor at f Senate meetings and presenting our B views, or even by getting some sup- | port and conducting another referemh^ dum. If we don’t want to go to all this trouble, or if we still aren’t satisfied, 1 there are only two things to do: sub- | mit to the will of the majority or with-draw from the society and not pay its B taxes.	fi
In none of these cases, it seems to H
me, is there doesn’t pay the benefits This may
any room for anyone who & the tax and still receives B of that tax.	g
all seem to be much ado £•
about nothing, but there were far too 3 many people last year who were against^.] paying the second semester tax “in B principle,” but weren’t against receiv- E ing the benefits of the tax.	£1
I think it’s clear, then, that the tax ft is a moral obligation for the large ma- g jority. If it is, then there’s some kind 8 of lesson of responsibility and citizen- B ship in paying it—and knowing why f; we are paying it. It’s right here and f j now that we’re learning to be citizens, Jd by just such things as paying taxes— and if you don’t think that’s a les- K son that must be learned, look at M France. “To most Frenchmen tax eva- ® sion is an instinct, and to some a ca- J reer.” (Time)	S
Student government is a part of the 1 education of a college student.	B
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
ft
9
Bill Zartman wants to know:
What effect would an advanced degree have on my opportunities for advancement at Du Pont?
9
William N. Zartman is studying for a B.S. in Chemical Engineering at the University of Illinois. Last summer he worked in the Technical Laboratory at Du Pont’s Chambers Works to gain industrial experience. He has not yet selected a permanent employer, however; and right now he’s asking the kind of questions which will help him select the right job and plan a successful career.
Sheldon Isakoff answers:
An advanced degree would undoubtedly have a favorable effect in technical work, Bill, but let me enlarge on that just a little.
Dr. Sheldon Isakoff received his Ph.D. degree in
Chemical Engineering from Columbia University in 1952, doing his graduate research work on the problem of heat transfer in liquid metals. Since graduation he’s been engaged in fundamental research work at the Du Pont Experimental Station, Wilmington, Delaware. Dr. Isakoff is now a Research Project Engineer in the Engineering Research Laboratory.
In my own field—chemical engineering—a doctorate is considered to be evidence of demonstrated ability in carrying out original research. An advanced technical degree is therefore helpful in obtaining work in research and development, where that skill is definitely important. You might say it gives a man a head start in proving his ability in those areas.
Are you interested in reseorch work?
About 2000 Du Pont scientists are currently engaged in research, aided by some 3500 other employees. Laboratory facilities of the highest quality are available at the Du Pont Experimental Station near Wilmington, and elsewhere throughout the country. Full information about research work at Du Pont is given in “The Story of Research.” Write for your copy of this free 28-page booklet to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
RE6. U-S.PAT.OFK
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
It’s less important in some other areas, though. For example, in production or sales work a manifest ability for handling human relationships is just as important for advancement as technical competence. If an engineer is sold on production work or sales, a graduate degree in marketing or business administration might be more helpful to him than advanced technical training—in getting started.
But I’ve noticed this at Du Pont. Once a man lands a job in his chosen field and actually begins to work, his subsequent advancement depends more on demonstrated ability than on college degrees. That’s true throughout the entire company— in scientific work, administration, or what not.
So an advanced degree is not a royal road to anything at Du Pont, Bill. But when coupled with proved abilities, an advanced technical degree is unquestionably helpful to a man in research and development work. It often gives him a chance to demonstrate his abilities more rapidly.
RORY CALHOUN AND WIFE, LITA BARON
You’ve seen him as a rugged western hero, and will again in his new film, “Four Guns to the Border” ( Technicolor — Universal-International). She’s starred in supper-clubs from coast to coast. If you see them offstage, notice their cigarette. It’s Chesterfield.
Chesterfield Regular & King Size... America's Most Popular 2-way Cigarette
Like Mr. and Mrs. Rory Calhoun, you smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your cigarette is Chesterfield.
You will like Chesterfield best because only Chesterfield has the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos — highest in quality, low in nicotine — best for you.
t,GGETTS^S TOBACCO
‘A/-*
IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD NO CIGARETTE	LIKE A
CHESTERFIELD