
SENIOR ARTS FESITVAL 
SUBMISSION DEADLINE: 
l\lARCH 8 
Artists contact: Meg Auth (6141) Peter O'Brien (8853) Writers contact: . Nathan Stone (1100) Skip Livingston (1737) Arkies contact: George O'Neill (3067) Musicians contact: Jerry Perez (289-1803) 
Questions? Contact: 
Cultural Arts Commission 
Student Union (6244) 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 
Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for .......... ·years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $................................ ............................CASH 
..................... ; .. CHECK Name ................................................... _. ................ , ................................ . ···•···•·•·········..····--························.······..········...... -.............. . 
Address .................... _............................................................. _······.······· 

City, .................................................................................................... . State.· ... · .............. :................................................... Zip...................._· 

DionneWarwick says:''Get your blood into circulation;' 


Call Red Cross·now for ablood donor 

·appointment~ 
r.t!'I A Public Service of This Newspaper ~I & The Advertising Council 


Let your friends and family know. 
what's going on llt N.D. Send them a subscription ·of Scholastic magazine. 
_Only $5.00 per year~. 


SCHOLASTIC 
. ~-. 



scholastic 
CLARIFICATION 
On February 16, 1979, Scholastic erroneously re­ported that the set for the production of All Overwent $2000 ·over budget. The ac­tual figures of the produc­tion were: set, costumes, and makeup, $2200; total production, $4000. Scholas­tic regrets its error. 

Vol. 120, No. 9, March 2, 1979 . Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
4 Beating the Odds 7 '79 Literary. Festival 9 Living the Farley Legend 

12 A Little Off the Top 15 Welcome to South Bend .•• 24 Exceeding Expectations 28 Profiles in Power FICTION 
14 A Good Friend of Mine 20 Short Fiction: Two Stories REGULARS 16 Gallery 
Leslie Brinkley Nancy Ryan Bill Fuller Keith Caughlin Liz Donovan Brian Beglane Marcy Weigle 
Dave Gill Anthony Walton 
Sybil Bernadette Young 

CREDITS Illustrations: Mike Cantwell, 6, 10, 26; Pat 19 Perspective Theresa Rebeck Burns, 7; Kevin O'Brien, 14; Anthony Walton, 21, 22; Cindy Dykhoff, 31 .. 23 Album Review Jeff Huhta and Greg Hull Photographs: Phillip·. Johnson, 12; Jim Klocke, 24, 25, 27; Jeff Huhta, 29; Mike 30 The Last Word Jake Morrissey -Guay, 5, 15, 28; Elsa Dorfman, 8;· Theresa Rebeck, 9, 11 . .Cover:. front, Mike Cantwell; back, Phillip Johnson. 
Editor  ,Staff  
John Morrissey  Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Anthony• Walton,  Eileen  Durkin,  Eddie Holden, Clay  
Managing Editor  Malaker, Tom Lucid, Greg Vansueh, Kevin McCarthy, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl,  
Theresa. Rebeck  Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Greg C. Gregory, Leo J.  Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean  F.  
Art Director  .  Faircloth, Paul Hurley, John Bondaruk, Michelle Gerard; Dodee Carney, Paul Mullaney,  
Mike Cantwell. Production Manager  Lou Severino,. Joe Carey, Jason Joyce, Paul Mortenson.  
Bernie Valenti  ·  
News Editor Elizabeth Donovan Culture Editor Dave Satterfield Sports Editor Mike. Kenahan .·  Hall Representatives: Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski1 Sean Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John Cuckovich, Greg G. Gregory, L~o J. Mulcahey, Dave M~yernick, Dan Letcher.  
Fiction Editor  
Tom Balcerek  
Copy Editor · Bob Southard  The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those. of the authors and editors of Scholastic  
Layout Editor Lisa Hartenberger Photography Editor  and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body~  
Phil Johnson  
Business Manager  
Kimberlie· Gumz Advertisement Manager · Marcy Weigle  The· magazine is represented for national: ad~ertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. 'Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press,  
Advisory Board  .  Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all ·manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.  
Elizabeth  Christman,  Mario  Pedi, Thomas  46556.  All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic.  ·  
Werge,  Thomas  Jemielity,  John  Miriam  copyright© 1979 Scholastic /  all rights reserved /  none of the contents may be repro­ 
Jones, S.C., Edward Fischer.  duced without permission.  
MARCH 2, 1979  3  


Beating the Odds 

by Leslie Brinkley 

Luck certainly isn't loyal or faith-The Bureau also channels volun­ful. It prefers to skip from person to teers into more specialized programs, person, from time to time, with no such as theSex Offense Staff (S.O.S.)", advance announcements. Inevitably, which aids and counsels victims of everyone in the world encounters .rape and child molesting. .A Battered trouble in varying degrees and must Wives' Shelter is incorporated in the deal with it , in whatever manner program as well, serving as a refuge seems · best. Sometimes, friends and for abused women. family provide the encouragement The second realm of concerri for needed to overcome problems. Per-·South Bend's Voluntary Action Cen­haps only self-initiative can solve the . ter-is its Information and. Referral unfortunate situation at hand. Money Service, which offers financial aid can buy the answer fo~ some and and housing to those· needing help. luck will occasionally intervene and Their li_inited funds are ·sparingly save the ~ay. allocated; so they prefer to interview 
However, helpless circumstances people personally to determine the do arise when none of. the obvious :exact nature and degree of need. The passages to relief are clear. The agency's caseworker; Lynn Rozewicz, friend might be·out of town, the bank usually funnels the money into account might be drained, and the · church groups, the Family-Children supply of luck just might nin dry. Center, and to those desperate for What then? · food. However, more obscure needs 
People need an emergency source are fulfilled by the Information and 
·of advice, counseling, and refuge. Referral ServJce, such as purchasing This guaranteed "friend" emerged·in dentures or paying doctor bills. South Bend in the form of the Vol-The Voluntary Action Center also untary Action Center, which services maintains South-Bend's Hotline, ·a the psychological, and _. sometimes, continuous, 24-hour-a-day phone ser­the physical needs of the community. vice that functions as a source of ad­Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's vice• and · referral. Simply' listening students discovered a satisfying chal-to the problems:ofcallers is its main lenge in work at the Center. Helping service and in a secondary sense, Hot­others in less fortunate situations is line provides an emergency contact a golden opportunity that ultimately center for the community. results in feelings of self-fulfillment.· · Kim Webb, Director of the South 
The Voluntary Action Center· . Bend Crisis Center and Hotline, grad.: 
(V.A.C.),:}ocated af 1511 Miami St., uated from St. Mary's College in ·is South Bend's central agency for 1977 with a degree in clinical· psy­community service and is financed by chology. Although the Center evolved ­United ·way. Three satellite centers eight years ago, Webb ascended to revolve ' around the V.A.C.: the control in February, 1978, and ex-_ Volunteer Services Bureau (V.S.B.), panded the reach of Hotline-thrqugh the Information and_R_eferral Service, increased publicity via radio ·and 
·and the Hotline. other media. ·The number' .of calls 
-The V.S.B.; -directed by Debbie received by Hotline climb~d from Szilagyi, concentrates on placing p~ approximately-300 per month last tential volunteers with different non-December, to a present rate of almost profit agencies that· request .extra 800 calls per month. · help. Initially, a person must demon-The Crisis Center location is kept strate sincere interest in volunteering. secret so that both caller and listener Before any assignment is finalized, remain anonymous to each other. the Bureau screeris these· candidates This practice protects the vohinteer and provides any necessary training. and doesn't threaten the caller with 
Volunteers are often referred -to the. possibility of exposu:l'e,. '-Keeping such community.agencies as.the Red . the communication completely .con­Cross and area nursing homes. Many fldential allows both" parties to freely women; as well as-men; decide -to express their thoughts and'feelings. volunteer, and their diverse ages' al-However, Hotline does . keep an ac­·1ow .the program-to inciude h'ouse-curate record of what. the calls are ·wives,· executives, retirees, and Notre about, so· that voiunteers can be _b~t~ Dame and Saint Mary's>students. ter trained to deal with callers. · · 
sca:or.AsTic 

. --­

K_im Webb (left), Hotline Director, ~nd Debbie Szilagyi, Assistant Director 
-· ­
.. : ­

According to Webb, most callers are in ·their 20's and 30's 'with very few teenagers using the service.· .The bulk of calls revolve around relation­ship problems, either breakups· or the lack of a relationship. Many call in to ·just talk with someone .and ease their loneliness. · CaUers often want· to ·clarify sexual· questions or effective birth control methods~ Webb added;' 1'Hotline· shifts to ·community needs~nce;·the concern was drugs, now 75% of our calls involve rela­tionship difficulties. . 
·. "We try to identify the problems and help people come to their own decision, not give· advice,". -Webb commented.:"We point·outthe alter­natives, saying you can·do X, Y, or Z, ·. and·. let the person take it from there.JI'·•.·:·" 
'Acting as:a· referral service, Hot­line also serves as home base, for other . confidential . agencies in · the area;: Emergency callers are· :some­times directed to DART (Drug Abuse Rescue Team), Parents Anonymous, or Gamblers Anonymous.··. 
Webb . claimed, "It's : frustrating. You spend· anywhere ·from thirty minutes 'to two: hours with someone on· ·-th~ ·phone;:-but· the calls· are 
MARCH 2, 1~79 
-. 
. ·.·. . .. 

anonymous, so you never know whatwill happen after you hang up. Sonie­times, the caller calls back with a message that things are working out, and that always makes us feel gooa.". . Fifty people staff the Hotline office and a:re required to work five 4-hour shifts. per month. At present,. the core .group of Crisis Center volun­teers ·are.South Bend citizens from a variety of occupations; Around this stabilized group orbit many Notre Dame and st:Mary's volunteers,,who set aside several hours each week to man the Hotline emergency phone. .-. A special training program is man­datory before any volunteer is per­mitted to deal directly:with callers. Hotline training .is primarily gov­erned by Director· Webb, although-several other speakers often visit the sessions. T_he program-helps the volunteers develop essential listening skills and teaches them how to ap­ply them to such contemporary prob:. lems as child abuse, drugs; suicide, 
· battered women, and sexualrelation.:. ships. ''The sessions enable people to become aware of how they ·react to these topics.'and hopefully, .makes them· feel more comfortable' in talk­· ing about . .them ·honestly,"' Webb 
noted. After training, a volunteer is required to sit in with an experienced listener for three weeks-before he can work on his own. -The next , training program:• is scheduled to begin during the last week in January, and, will run for three consecutive weeks:on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 7-10. Eleven Notre Dame and St. Mary's students· participated,., in last -fall's program, arranged as two -8-hour sessions on Nov. 4 and 5. 
. Senior Darryl Cooke (not his real name);· first expressed interest in Hotline last;. summer and.' after passing through a -series of inter­views, found himself a part of No­vember's . training. group; He. es­
. pecially, admired. the cohesiveness thatdormed ·among -the 'group of 
. volunteers·and appreciated the feel­ings of unity and friendship that de­veloped as a result of the·weekend/ · Using role-playing as its. principal tool, the '. program , furictione,f on · a group 'discussion format. , :i•on, the· second day, we, moved· onto·•some touchy issues ..There was a segment · on sex, during which we wei:e asked to write down sexual terms and then come up with synonyms. lt'sure did 

:Finding a substitute "mother'' or "father" for a·· single-parent child is the .job of Big Brothers•Big Sisters of South Bend. The organization functions on a one-to-one basis, sug­gesting that. volunteers try to. visit their "child" at least once a week for several hours .. 
Dan Monroe, the Campus Coor­dinating · Director, is: attempting to establish the service as a formal Uni­versity club, even though the pro­gram opened· to Notre Dame stu­dents ten years ago. Sixty students, primarily male, . volunteered. their time this academic year, and there are still openings for more, accord­ing to.Monroe. '. 
"These kids are. messed up," Mon­roe noted, "and they need a mascu­line image-in the home, so that they can eventually filLthat function. A volunteer should serve •as a. comple­ment to _t}:le mother and her value system." : · 

Most o_f the. children .ar.~ between · · 8 and..13 ·years old,. with very few older than 15. The prog~ tries. to 
break down inhibitions! You· get calls from sexually disturbed people arid you can't.afford to be. shocked," Cooke explained. 
A Notre Dame fz:eshman, Jeff Stevenson (not his real name), first learned of the Hotline service at Ac­tivities Night in September and he felt that he could handle the respon­sibilities it entailed. 
. "It's not for everyone--c-:-the pres­sure isn't easy to. take," Stevenson said. "You could get a suicide call and spend an hour talking with the guy.· He might say 'I've.had-it' and hang up. What are your feelings then? You come to a realization that· you must keep a.separateness. ·You remember. it's the· caller that pulls the trigger or takes the pills." . · Many other Notre Dame_ and St. Mary's students are-active in volun­teer positions in South Bend's com­munity service network. And all of these various agencies signaled their interest· in · utilizing more college volunteers. within their respective programs. 
present the children with _another environment for a short while, and expose them to other aspects of life. Playing basketball, going bo_wling, or seeing a movie all serve as valuable opportunities to simply talk and be­come friends. By forming a campus group, other activities could be pro­vided, including a tentative trip to a Chicago baseball game. : . . 
Monroe worked with his "little brother" for a couple ·of years and witnessed a change in. his attitudes. "He ·was in trouble with the law and with school, and now,-he finally seems to b~ working towards some­thing,'' he said. 
Ano_ther potential area for student in_volvement is "LOVES" (Library Outreach Volunteer Emphasis Story­telling). Volunteers periodically travel to nursery and grade schools 

_. in South Bend and tell stories. :From fairy tales, to puppet shows, to Curi­OUB George, the storyteller tries ·to generate interest . and questions· through. games, illustrations, and dramatics . 
.·. Cristobal de la -Torre, a Notre· Dame senior, recently volunteered as a wandering storyteller. He's moti­vated by the fact that "many kids are stunted by television, so that by reading stories, you're opening the minds and eyes of all th.ose. little kids." Unlike a "LOVES" volunteer,, se­nior Sheila Quadrini tackles the more demanding skills required of a stu­dent intern officer for the South Bend probation department. After tutoring juvenile delinquents for. some: time, she received an internship: through the Notre Dame Sociology_ Depart­ment and Prof. Vasoli. Quadrini works exclusively• ,with misdemean~rs, and often fills out pre­sentence. reports. After talking and visiting with .her own clients, · she recommends to the case judge wheth­er an individual should be put on probation or sent to jail. Since she aspires to work in criminal justice after graduation, her. job with. the probation department provides: pre­cious background experience. · Similar programs ·are springing into existence all.across the country, as there is •a continually growing community concern for the welfare of all ·. its citizens .. For instance;r in Toledo,,Ohio, the Family Services of . Greater Toledo organization offers help and advice in the same manner · 
as South Bend's V.A.C.. Their 24­hour Hotline agency is christened "Rescue-Crisis Services" and staffs a great many students from local col­leges as well. 
Students actually involved in the Voluntary Action Center and its wide. range of services emphasize the im-· portant role it filled for many of South Bend's citizens. For some indi-· viduals, the Center is the only place they can turn to for comfort, help, strongly encourage others to join one of the programs, as they all find their work frustrating at times but, in the end, immensely rewarding. One Hot­line trainee noted that "so many vol­unteer things are more social events than: an ·actual giving of yourself." He designated Hotline as a. real chance to guide others _ through troubled times. 
Monroe elaborated on the Big Brother experience, saying, "Kids are 
and guidance. One volunteer de-. · free in expressing emotions and give scribed many as "desperate and you a charge when they come right lonely, looking for the first sign of out and tell you you're doing a good relief that's extended to them." job." _. . All of the student volunteers The services furnished_ by the .Vol.: 
untary Action Center not only _im~ prove the lives of many people in the city but, ·in return, enlighten and en­rich the 'lives of many University students: Summing up the gratitude felt'· by 'the community, ·Webb ·said, "We ·sure are:glad we've got.Notre Dame and St. Mary's in town!" 
Perhaps, to some people, the vol­unt_~rs ·are _1;uccessfullymanip_ulating Lady Luck herself! O 
Leslie Brinkl,ey is a junior A~ can Studies major from Perrysburgh, Ohio. ·This is her first· contribution 
to Scholastic~ : . . . . . 
,. ".... the Festival provides an iJJ· portunity for personal interaction between the students and the artists." 
.. This statement concisely charac­terizes the nature of the upcoming Sophomore Literary "Festival. Au­thors . from '. various 'literary fields will · appear during the week of March 4-10 to present their works, discuss their techniques,. and share their ideas. The· ·format of the ·festi­val encourages both active and pas­sive participation in the events of the week~ Each evening a different artist will read from a selection of his _works. These_ readings will be held_at eight o'clock in. the Library Auditorium (with the exception of Allen Ginsberg's presentation in Washington Hall)~ Receptions will follow these readings in the.Library Lounge to give participants achance to meet and exchange ideas with the various authors. A_fternoon .. \v~rk-: shops conducted by the speakers will focus on the methods and techniques they employ in. their writing arid eri~ courage questions on_ style, . subject; and theme; The . framework of the festiiai is , designed . to promote 'a sampling of the contemporary liter~ ary world; The schedule offers ·exten~ sive :appeal .. The_ following inforina~ tion· includes brief biographies· of the participants. and the ' dates of "their appearance. "The Festival provides an opportunity"; make the most of it. 
Allen Ginsberg-Sunda.y, l\larch 4 ­
Allen , Ginsberg's notoriety as a poet began during the· San Francisco 
MARCH 2, 1979 

·. b 
Nancy Ryan 

works have been · recognized with the · 195o•s: The _members of these awards such as the Guggenheim Fel-­clans accepted · Ginsberg -as their lowship ·(1963, 1964), the National major poet _with the publication of Institute for Arts and·Letters Grant Howl and Other Poems (1956) for for poetry (1969); and the National which he was arraigned on <>bsceni-·. · Book Award (1974). His study of ty charges but subsequently cleared. niantric ' poetics ·and his acquaint­.He has experimented with the poetic ances with Ezra Pound, Bob Dylan; effects of -:psychedelic drugs. His Ed Sanders and ·.Mick Jagger led 
Ginsberg to study music and record both .Howl and .Other Poems and Kaddish.· Ginsberg has· ·recently: been awarded the . ·Medai for; ·Literature from the National Arts · Club. His books of poetry include Empty Mir:-: ror, Early Poems, Airplane Dreams, and Mind Breaths. 
David 1mi.me~Monday, 1'1arch 5 

David Mamet is a playwright who graduated from Goddard Col­lege in 1969 with a B.A. Jn English Literature. He_ studied creative _the­ater in New York from 1971-1973. He was artist-in-residence at God'.' · dard. He has been a member of the Illinois Arts__ . ,Council faculty and helped :found and direct the St. Nich­

. John Frederick Nims-Thursday,
olas Theater Company .in Chicago. 
March 8 

In 1975, Mamet's scripts Duck Vari­ation and Sexual Perversity in Ohi­
· John Frederick Nims is a graduate cago were produced in New York; in 

of Notre Dame who received aPh.D. 

1977, Mamet's American BuffaJ.o was 
in Comparative Literature from. the

performed on Broadway and· named University of Chicago. He taught at Best Play of its season. It won the Notre Dame frorri 1939-1962 as well 
New York Drama Critics Award for 
as at the universities of Toronto,Best American Play. Mamet has re­Illinois, and Florida. He served as ceived honors including a Rockefel­Fulbright Professor in Italy and as ler playwriting-in-residence grant . Smith-Mundt Professor .at the Uni-

and a CBS Fellowship at Yale in versity of Madrid. H~s list of awards 1977. 
and honors is extensive.: Nims' works include The Iron Pastoral (poems), William Gaddis--Tuesday, l\larch 6 _·. Knowledge of the· Evening, an_d Of Flesh and Bone (poems) along with 
William Gaddis· is a novelist _de-­translations_ and analrses of foreign scribed by Robert Graves as "most· 
poems.

unusual in his generation of writ­ers."-A graduate of Harvard Col­
Hilda Modey-F~iday, March 9 _· lege, Gaddis' fields of writing include film and magazine_ work as-well· as . Hilda Morley is a poet who at­his two. notable novels The Recogni-tended the Walden School, the Haifa tions (1955).and JR (1975). Gaddis' Realschule, · Hebrew University, and appearance at the festival will mark . University College, London, as an un­his first formal reading of this type. , dergraduate and didherpostgradtiate studies at Wellesley, Ohio Sta~e, and
' 

Larry Mc~lurtry.:....Thlll'sday, , N.Y.U. Her teaching· experiences at · ·March 8 . Black Mountain College brought her .in . contact . with .. such artists as 
Larry McMu~ is:_~ _no~elist and. Charles Olson, Robert Creeley, and essayist . from· Wichita. Falls, Texas. Denise Levertov. ;Ms, Morley's works He received a B.A. from North Texas include numerous · reviews and liter­State and an M.A.; from Rice. He is ary articles, translations of Hebrew a member of the Texas Institute of works and her 1976 book of poems Letters and · has received both the entitl;d A Blessing Outside Us.. · 
.. , ....

Wallace ·stegner . Fellowship· and Guggenheim Fellowship.-McMurtry's IsbinaelReed~Frida.y, March 9 works often reflect his Southwest~ -.' : .
\ . 

background and 'include: Horsemp,n; Ishmael· Reed is a poet and riovelist Pass_ By, Leaving Oheyenne,· and· the who has extended interests in other · popular novel and film, The Last Pic­literary fields such· as publishing· and ture. Show ,(for which he also wrote teaching. -In, the last dozen years he the screenplay) •. ; has· published"flve riovels, the; most 
s· 
recent being The Last.Days of Lou­isiana Red and_ .Flight to Canada 
(b6th in 1976). He has three vol­
umes of poetry, Oonjure, Ohattanoo­
ga, ·and Secretary to the Spirits. 
Reed has received much recognition 
for 'his work, including the_.Pulitzer Prize nomimi.tiori in 1973 for poetry. He is currently on ·the faculty ·of the University of California at Berke.: ley. . . 
R~bert s/ Fitz~ri.Id~atlll"d~y/ ·, .. · March' 10 · · · · · 
Robert S. Fitzgerald, poet and 
translator of the·-• classics,·· received 

the A.B. degree in 1933 from Har­.vard.. His career has· included ·jour­nalism as well as ·poetry: He _was a 
repo·rter for both the New .York Herald-Tribune· and.· Time :before 
World• War iL Since July, 1975; he has served as Poetry Editor of The 
New Republic. 'Admired as : a skilled translator of the Greeks, he has put into ··English numerous · works . .of Sophocles,' Euripides;. and,_._Homer'. Irf ·1976, . his. transhi.tion_._()f. "The Iliad" received the first ·. Harold iai1ci~~i :Award. for translation . · of poetry .. His extensive list of·awaras and honors includes two Guggenheim Fel~owship~ (1952,· 1971);, a ·gra11~ 
from. the National·· Endowment for 
the Humanities, :and . an. Ingram Merrill Foimdati~n· fellowship: O · 
~ '. -.-. ·.. :'.:: . . : ' : ..... . 
"Nancy ·Ryan is involved ·.•in this year's Literary Festival. :This·.is.:her first contribution:to Scholastic. ·_ ·_: 
: . SCHOLASTIC 


Sister Jean Lenz: 



CiviJtfJllte larte11 Ce{leJtd 
It was a humid spring night in 

1974. At about eleven o'clock, the 
rector of Farley Hall thought she 
heard a riot in the distance. Proba~ bly a pep rally. Then the telephone rang: a mob of Notre Dame. men had been . seen stampeding toward her hall yelling "Farley! Farley!" Hanging up the phone, she rushed out of her room towards the side entrance of the'.'hall. She dashed down the steps and swung open the door. And gasped; Nearly a hundred guys were huddled around the en­trance, stark . naked. One of them cried, "O my God, it's Sister!" For a moment there was silence.. Then the rector, summoning all her courage, yelled, "There is .no way you're ,getting in this hall like THAT!" Suddenly, bodies disap­peared behind bushes,, bicycles, and trees. As Sister Jean Lenz turned back toward the door,, the .bodies · cautiously began to·:abandon their; hiding places and back up toward the dorm. Out of the corner of her eye she caught the movement. and barked, ·"I· am not MOVING from this spot. till·. you guys get outa here!" With that, somebody yelled,. "Let's get• Lyons!" and the. mob disappeared into the night. The:rec­tor remained poised on the steps for a moment, wondering whether a 
rector's job was for her. 
Four springs later, Sister Jean 

Lenz received.the Pop Farley Award 
at the annual President's Dinner. in 
Notre Dame's North Dining Hall. 
Before a crowd of 1200 faculty and 
staff members, .Father Hesburgh 
presented the award to her, stating 
that it is given each year to• that 
person who. has most visibly sup­
ported Notre Dame student life 
outside the academic sphere. Twen­
ty-four hundred eyes watched her 
as she approached the podium in an 
"I can't believe it" daze, and twenty­
four hundred hands applauded her 
by. Bill Full~r 

when she accepted the award and on a roller coaster; you're asked to stood speechless at the podium. change emotions so quickly .. The 
"I still can't believe it," Sister other day, for example, I. was coun­Jean says, relaxing in a chartreuse seling a girl in here who was in easy chair in her room. Two ivy-tears, when all . of a sudden . the covered windows let light into the phone rings and it's the Farley soph­room, already brigllf with yellow omores overseas in Angers telling walls. On one of these walls hangs me ab.out the. good times they've an arrangement of paintings and been having. Then the TVrepaiiman photos, most of them of the Notre comes in _to •get the keys to the TV Dame · campus. Another wall con-cabinet, and. this ,.poor girl is still tains a painting of a ballerina. Be-sitting here. Just as we settle down hind: her . messy desk a bookcase again, the infirmary calls to tell me: bulges with yearbooks, theology that one of our girls has the chicken books, and a collection of poetry pox. All of this happened in · 15 books,. T. S .. Eliot. prominent· among minutes." them. "If I had to describe my life • · As though to illustrate, a group_ at Farley Hall; I'd say it's like living of elementary-school students came 
Sister Jean Lenz in a rare spare moment 

through at that moment on a tour; Sister Jean quizzed them on what they liked most about the Notre Dame campus. A few minutes later a girl came to borrow paper plates. Then Campus Ministry called about a meeting. Finally a girl dropped in to return Sister Jean's keys, which she had absentmindedly left in the door. 
Sister Jean faced one of her most hectic experiences early this year. Because of a decrease in the number of seniors moving off campus, the Housing Office was forced to convert the Farley basement into living quarters for 16 freshmen. The base­ment is not only damp, but the win­dows are at ground ·1evel, the' ceil­ings are crisscrossed with hot pipes, and many of the rooms are not large enough to· hold. two beds,· two desks,· and two lockers. When the· freshmen 

and· their parents arrived late·· in on in here. As·busy as she is, for ex­August, they were appalled at the ample, she· came to :-our'Halloween rooms. One mother· complained to party on a moment's notice/ in a .the Housing Office, another wrote a costume no less! She wore a floppy: letter to the D_bserver condemning yellow hat, huge sunglasses,· and· the conditions as "not designed for overalls embroidered with her name 
human sleeping," and the 16 fresh­and a shamrock." men· described their plight in a letter The Cellar· Dwellers' ··Halloween to the Observer. party was not the first hall social · 
event attended by Sister Jean; She 

::-Today the atmosphere in the base-makes her appearance at nearly ment seems far from tense. The every Farley event, from impromp;. bulletin board ,and section walls. a.re · tu·· get-togethers like Sections •· 2A plastered with jokes and caricatures . and 2B's Ice Cream Social to planned of the Cellar Dwellers, as they call . affairs like the Lally Literary Festi­
themselves. According to the Cellar· 

Dwellers, Sister Jean was largely re-. val where girls read the worst pas-'
sible examples of poetry an_~ prose

sponsible .for their change .in atti-from within stalls in the second-floor 
tude; When someone failed to deliver ·· · 
restroom. • According to senior Meg·.telephones, telephone books, WSND Hackett,-"In other halls you want door. tags, and Scholastic magazines . to keep the rector as far away as to the secluded section, Sister Jean. possible from your parties and got the job done. She called them all things; But in Farley, when Sister · into her room· one night, and over . Jean comes to your party, you know glasses of . wine talked with them it's a. success.". . · · . · · about their living situation and re-. Sister Jean contributes to the sue­lated some of Farley's history to .. cess of the Farley. Debutante Ball, 
them: "Farley Hall was dedicated. the culmination of the Farley social to Pop Farley, · a dearly loved hall . year,·.· traditionally.· held. on the eve · rector who died in 1939 and in whose 
of April Fool's Day. Spoofing both memory the Pop Farley Award has·. the· Miss America Pageant and _the. been created. · · · You know, when. tradition of young girls· coming· out Father ·Hesburgh was· rector here, . into society, Farley women dress in· your section was .the elite section· outlandish costumes to' compete for that guys fought to get into, since·. the «Deb of the Year" awards. The it was so far from the rector's judges' panel·consists of award win~ 
room." • -­
ners · from ·the previous· year and "The girls· would not give up this Si~ter Jean,. who wears. her ~oppy · 
·· section for the world," confesses the hat, sunglasses, and overalls. One basement's R.A., Carol Lally. "Sis-of last year's winners ·was. dressed ter Jean is the key. to what's going -as Sister Contact -Lenz,-and Sister Jean awarded her dead roses and an empty wine bottle .with which to start. her own sacristy.. 
Sister Jean's· experience. with :col­lege students began when she served as Campus Ministry Director at the College of: St; Francis, where she also spent ·her• undergraduate· days: While at St; Francis, ·she. received a letter from Father Burtchaell ask­ing .her to· consider the ... rectorship of Farley Hall,· in· its first year as a women's dorm .. Since Sister Jean had done her master's work at Notre Dame in· 1966-67, Father Burtchaell felt that she would be familiar with some· of the people and places on· 
campus.,.-. 
She felt a· "little · leery" about accepting the position, since she had· never lived with college·:sfudents,: but decided that the best thing she 
could. do was ·to share her life with others. The first · few months were extremely hectic, involving at · 1east three invasions on the· dorm by crowds, ·several .girls •.injured by ·ac­cidents, and a .barrage ofl personal· problems. "I kept ·wondering if ·I'd last till Christmas," she admits. 
Her decision to 'reinain at Notre Dame came •somewhere. between. a student's emergency· appendectomy_ and the invasion by the mob . ·of naked guysi,"I was lying in bed one night, wondering when my·life was going to slow down. Suddenly it oc­curred. to me that' things were not going to slow down and· that· this was my. calling."·• · · 
: Besides serving, as rector, Sist~r 
: SCHOLASTIC 

Jean teaches theology classes at Notre Dame. She is presently teach­ing a beginning Bible course to freshmen. She paces amidst the 35 students, discussing the value of an upcoming assignment. "When you 
. finish this paper," she predicts, "you'll learn to become really criti­cal of the clergy. One day you'll be listening to the homily, and you'll say to yourself, 'I wonder why he didn't say this or that.' " In, the dis­cussion portion of the class, someone asks, "Would Jesus think, it was morally right to jail a criminal?" and she. allows for discussion, never monopolizing it. -"I really · like the class," admits one student. "She respects our views; no one ever has a wrong answer. One guy read an essay on the midterm completely · wrong, and she allowed him; to make up two questions that he'd like to answer and, turn them in for credit." Mike Glynn was enrolled in Sister Jean's freshman theology class four years ago. At the,time, he was con­fused about himself and about life. He had come to Notre Dame hoping to strengthen his injured foot and to reclaim the football scholarship he had lost as a result of the high school injury; after having spent months nursing his injured foot, he earned the chance to practice with the N.D.· team, only to reinjure it soon thereafter. In additio.n to that problem, he was disillusioned with the Catholic Church. Impressed by Sister Jean's piety and devotion to God, he began to visit her. They dis­cussed his problems, and he learned that sports. were not the most valu­able aspects of his life. She recon_. firmed his faith in the Church, and they began to pray together regu­larly. "Our prayer got to the point where we'd be at a place like Shakey's and she'd want to say Grace out loud before our meals," he reveals. "I felt completely at ease to do that when I was with lier.''. Today Mike sits in the comfort­able lounge of Moreau Seminary where he is studying for the priest­hood. He admits that he is still con­fused about a few areas of the Church, but with the help of Sister Jean, he has found his place in it. "Somebody once said," he recalls, " 'If you pick up the cross, you've gotta be willing to be hung on it.' " Jean gets hung on that cross every 
day. She's so involved with the peo­ple in her life that she actually feels their greatest joys and their deepest sorrows." 
Sister Jean felt one of Farley's deepest sorrows last year when Mary Craig, a Farley junior, died of cancer. Since Mary's friends knew about her impending death months before she died, they not only had to cope with the realization that their friend was dying, but they also had to learn how to act towards Mary. A few months before Mary's death they found themselves wondering whether they could handle the situ­ation. 
"Being members of Farley, we turned to Sister Jean," recalls Karen Lacity, one of Mary's closest friends. "It was a comfort to know that we could go down and talk to someone who had experience ·in this sort of thing." Time after time, . Mary's friends, sometimes alone and some­times in groups, went to Sister Jean's room with questions. Each time; she gave them comfort, advice, and empathy, but rarely gave them direct plans · of action, because, as she puts it, "I like people who chal­lenge other people to grow." , · "And we did," admits Karen Lacity. "Although I'd never wish this sort of thing on anyone, it was a growing experience that united us with each other and with Sister Jean and made us appreciate many things so much more.'' 
Two objects in Sister Jean's room which hold special significance for her are likenesses of dancers. ·one is a painting of a trained ballerina, and the other is a pewter statue of a child learning her first ballet step. These works of art reflect Sister Jean's character because she feels that life, like the dance, should be lived for the moment. Too often we are so obsessed with the past and future that we ignore the present moment, where the dance of life really takes place. With the excite­ment of a child at Christmas, she flips open T. S. Eliot's Four Quartets and reads a reference to her reflec­tion: 
At the still point of the turning world, neither flesh nor fleshless Neither from nor towards; at the 
still point, there the dance is, But neither arrest nor movement. And do not call it fixity, Where past and future are gathered. Neither movement from nor to­-wards. Neither ascent nor decline. Except' for the point, the still point, There would be no dance, and there is only the dance. 
It's the reflection of one who has. found value in the moment . of the dance. It's the reflection of one.who has devoted her life to helping others find that moment. And it's· the re­flection of one who, like Pop Far­ley, will be remembered long after her dance is over. D 

. . 

A Little Off the Top 
by Keith Caughlin 


I usually get my hair cut over breaks. I shell out twelve dollars to have my hair sculpted at Denny's Hair Studio. There Denny or one of her nymphs cuts it according to my personality and the pH of my hair follicles.· Denny's is like most hair salons of the modern style-and-blow­dry era. There are beanbag chairs scattered on deep pile carpeting, hanging · ferns and Fleetwood Mac in stereo. But my hair is long·now, not over a break. Where should I have it cut? 
I could hike in the. snow to some place off campus or I could have it · trimmed at the Notre Dame Barber­shop. Heck, all the· ROTCs· have their hair cut and they don't look too bad. I made an~ appointment. The next day I walked in, not knowing what to expect I had heard · tales of ROTC Joe, the Badin Butcher, and was just about to turn tail and run, when I stopped. · "It'll always grow back, don't worry/' I.· said to myself. · 
I walked in and sat in the red vinyl and aluminum. chair. I picked up a copy· of Sports ·Illustrated off the Formica table but didn't read if, I just looked around.· The floor tile was ordinary enough, but some of the ceiling tile was blocked in to form a gold number one. Hanging from it were plaques· commemorat­ing every national championship team. 
The shop was large; ·there were ten chairs and two walls lined with mirrors and cabinets to equip ·an assembly line of barbers. The other walls were full of· photogr,aphs ·and sketches, a veritable Hall of Fame. Knute, the Gipper, National Cham­pionship team portraits, all Notre Dame memorabilia. Of the ten chairs only one was doing business -this chair was handled by Joe D'Angelo. 

He has trimmed Notre Dame locks 

. for 23 years. Four years ago Carl worked with -him, now there's· only business ·for one. · Carl's ·chair sits empty next to Joe, and his name and his 1975 J_icense still hang quietly;· 
Joe's chair is anything but quiet; the · shelves around it are full. The lower ones have ·assorted hair lo­tions, ointments, and tonics. The upper · one, across -the. top of the mirror, is packed. It has: (from left to right) four Styrofoam straw hats, a copper etching, a postcard, 
a: glass from the Kentucky Derby, an ND glass, a small plastic football, two plastic knights ( one holds a sign "Property of the Mafia, Keepa your hands off"), a can of dehy­drated water, five bicentennial me­dallions, a piece· of galena (perfect cleavage, high specific gravity), four memorial 7-up bottles, antique hair clippers, a camera, a couple of candles, a pirate, an Indian chief, a toy safe, a Credit Union ."Jaws" bank and .an old cast iron action bank (the dog catches the penny and drops it in a slot). It has to be the best shelf on campus. . . 
I looked down from the shelf, down past the mirror and at him, Joe D'Angelo, barber. Standing there like Caesar with his noble Roman nose and hair combed forward and blue tunic, "You, ah· next?" I left the firm red chair and walked to the barber's chair. I sat down and he suited me up, the smock and the little white neck wrap. · 
"How do you want it cut?" he asked.· I gave him the answer. "First time· in here?" "Yes sir," I said, "first time." He began · cutting my hair and I began asking q~estions. !;guess I should have let him con­centrate on what he was doing but I had never really talked with a barber. · Of course, when I was a youngster I listened to barbers a lot, but that was when I sat in a little extra seat placed on the chair and 
.my mom was watching. I had never had a barber-to~cus_tomer conver­sation. 
I asked him about the barber pole that appears once in a while (it is , removed· at night ·and during the winter). I inquired about changes in 
· attitudes since the old days, how Fr. Hesburgh has his hair cut, the usual. gossip. . 

"Now if you'll look straight into the mirror. you'll see... ," he said angiing a mirror behind me to show 
the back It was short all right, but that's ·what · I paid for. "Tonic or nothing on your· hair?" he asked. Remembering Bay Root and Burma Shave, I chose nothing. "Okay, noth­ing it is." With that, he took a squeeze bottle and gave it a puff. Half expecting · to smell like a_ cleaned-up cowboy, I said, "I Jold you nothing." "I know," he laughed,· showing me an empt:y bottle labeled "NOTHING," "first-timers, they will fall for it every time'."' Yes, Joe; I guess they will. , 
Next year there are:plans to con­vert half of the shop ·into a hair · studio. The salon will charge more for haircuts, but that is in demand; Joe will still be there, though: One room will be Joe and his chair, the other, beanbags,. ferns and Fleet­wood Mac in stereo. D · 
Keith Caughlin ·is a Freshman Scholastic ''staffer" from Uvonia, Michigan. This is his first contri­bution to the magazine. 
A GOODFRIEND OF MINE 
by Dave Gill 
I don't think I ever did tell y'all about that astrology nut I met at a party one time. She had this light blue sweater on and she was really into the stars that night. So anyway, I'll tell ya about her. 
Ya see, I'm a Shure cartridge, one of those needles in a record player. I'm not quite sure· of my number as that damn fool who bought the set lost my birth certificate (instruction book to all you lay readers). I'm hooked up with this foreign turn­table, B-E-O-G-R-A-M 3000; the powerbox is an .American product, Pioneer by name. The speakers aren't much to speak of size-wise, . Bose 901's, but they sure as hell make a lotta. noise. They're hanging from the ceiling, makes for better sound I guess. The record player and I are sitting on a shelf on the wall (that's so the dancin' don't bother. us, just when they slam the damn doors). The Pioneer piece is right below us on top of the record case, about 150 records in all, and they're in alpha­betical order, sorta. 
The five guys that live in the house 
with us are all · students at some 
Midwestern college; I can tell by all 
the books they lug around and by 
the weirdo· weather that passes 
through. 
Anyway, if I recall correctly, it 
weren't too long ago these fellas had 
themselves a party, must've· been a 
birthday or some other excuse to 
have all their friends over to drink 
some beer. I was over in a corner 
back then, out of the way, but with a 
pretty good eye of what all went on. 
The room reminded me of a flattened­
out square, rectangle I think they 
called it, with a bar at one end and 
a keg of beer at the other {none of 
'em were too long on common sense, 
still · aren't). They moved all the 
furniture out of the room so's to pack 
lots of people in, kinda like a cattle 
car on a train with one trough. I 
guess they liked to rub bodies. Maybe 
it's like rubbin' up against a good 
album. I did wonder if them guys ever got as tired as I did -the girls sure didn't seem to have as many groovE!s. 
The wingding started out slow, sorta country rock, but it didn't take long before somebody put· on that infernal rock and roll. I didn't want to get my eardrums blown clear out, so I settled on watching the people · roaming around and paid no never mind to what music they played. 
Personally, the females took all my blue ribbons. They had nice soft touches, and they dusted the records off so I didn't have to eat so much damn dirt. A couple of-'em spent the night and cleaned up in the morning. Right nice of the ladies. Their music didn't set real well with me, though, 'cause as soon as one of them got a chance, she stuck that disco crap on and the whole room commenced to shakin' and jumpin'. And ·. people bitch about listening to it; try play­in' the same damn thing over and over again. It's like stubbing your toe on the same chair ten days in a row. 
You remember that astrologer, the one in the light blue sweater? She weren't a cleaner or a disco dancer; she was the kind that threw back a couple of quick ones and got real talky~ You know, the kind that come up to talk, step on your toe or speaker jack, and spill their beer. 
I'm glad she never got an itch to hear an album or the whole damn set would've gone to the shop. Worst thing old Blue Sweater did was knock over a beer on some records. Good thing she left when she did. 
My astrologer friend and her kind had it all over some of the men hang. ing around. I don't cotton to strang­ers, 'specially male ones, handling my delicates, 'specially at a party where everybody's had . a few, I can tell the bad ones from the good ones, though. The bad ones. hands' shake and they have a • lot of trouble. standin' still. They're the ones that play basketball with me and the tone arm, except I'm •the one .that gets· bounced. 
Most of the guys figured out they were half-drunk and couldn't see any sense in trying to change a record. Puttin' the record on was the easy part; readin' the album covers was the trouble. They just sat. back and only got up for two reasons: when they needed a beer or had to take a
leak. . . .. . .. 
Them's .the kind of people I watched, .mainly because my future was in their hands, and I mean in their hands. Most of the others kinda stood around, rubbed .against each other, and talked about who cares what. I heard somebody once caU it "mingling". and how that somebody hated to do. it. Doesn't seem like 


something I'd stand up and holler 
about either. Sorta hard to like talk­
ing to someone while the someone is 
looking over your shoulder. Plus, at 
the party, the music was turned up 
so damn loud, I couldn't hear my 
own self think, let alone someone 
else talk. 
Well, the party went on like I told 

for a couple hours and nothing much 
exciting happened. People came and 
went, but most of 'em left a little 
happier than when they showed up. 
I got bumped around only a few 
times ·and whoever did it was real 
sorry he did, apologizing to people 
that didn't even live here. The guys 
that threw the party didn't get all 
b_ent out of shape or nothing and, 
like they say in the newspapers, a 
good time was had by all. At least 
until Blue Sweater decided that night 
was perfect for some star-gazing. 
She must've thought the house was 

pretty warm, but personally, it was 
the first time__ in a long time that 
damn room was any kind of warm. 
Everybody that lived there used to 
get all bundled up and hunkered 
down when they sat around in that 
room. Not the night of the party, 
though. 
I was just mindin' my own busi­

ness, when the astrologer in the-blue 
sweater weren't in it anymore and 
she was running through the house 
and out the front door without her 
namesake. She was flappin' her arms 
and a couple other things as she ran ·by. When she got outside, she was so happy to look up at the pretty sky, she begun to sing and yell and make ­a real big commotion: 
It weren't long and the police 

showed up and asked real nice-like if everyone thought it was time to go home.._Said they'd come back in 15 · minutes to see if anyone needed a ride. Well, it didn't take long for the house to get real empty. The five fellas just stood around looking at each other and at the new keg they just opened. They all stayed up real late and drank all the beer. Needless to say, the next day and a half was pretty quiet, everybody drinking a lotta water, not eating much, and 
sleeping a lot. 
That's how I met my astrologer 

friend. Never did catch her name. 
Hope she comes back real soon, 
though, so she can tell me what 
was so damn exciting about them 
stars. D 
Question: "Where are you from, Liz?" 
Answer: "South Bend." 

Reaction: "Ohhhh," or better yet, "You're kidding, you don't look like a townie!" 
Townies are a misunderstood and much abused lot. The term itself evokes the image of a long-haired, wiped-out teenager slinking around the ACC in the postconcert haze. Contrary to popular belief, townies ­are not always monosyllabic -and comatose creatures. We constitute a good proportion of the student body at Notre Dame, but yet we still must bear the brunt of insults and jokes aimed at our fair city. By virtue of residence only, we are made to feel that our hometown pales in com­parison with such exotic places as Hohokus, New Jersey, and Dodge City, m1:nsas. Such discrimination is unwarranted, for there are thousands of reasons why I (and many others) actually like living in South Bend. 
First of all, townies have no ac­cents to apologize for. "New Jersey" comes out just as Webster intended it to, no substituting "oi" for "z:." The King's English reigns in the River City. 
When it comes to practical knowl­edge, a student from South Bend has the jump on everyone else. We are the only 9nes who can tell you exactly where the South Shore Sta­tion is, and the location of the only bathroom at Town and Country Mall. Goodwill, St. Vincent DePaul, and the Farmer's Market are old friends to us, so don't be smug enough to think you've · discovered something 

by Liz Donovan 

new. Townies know that Michigan Street and U.S. 31 are one and the same and we can successfully ma­neuver through the downtown detours. 
Being from South Bend saves dol~ fars, cents, and lots of hassles. 'No phone bills from Indiana Bell, and no worries about rising air fares. Going home for breaks is a ten-minute af­fair: while everyone else is snowed in at O'Hare, we're already home wrapping Christmas presents. 
One of the townie's most obvious advantages is having the option be­tween Saga's chuck wagon steak (steak?) or, at no extra charge, mom's homemade chicken and dump­lings. Home is within eyesight from the twelfth floor of the Library, far away when I'm feeling independent and close enough when -I'm not _so sure. 
Summer is the nicest time to be in South Bend, and I'm glad every­one is gone. Void of permafrost and people, Notre Dame is a lovely, quiet place, interrupted only by R.V. shows, baton-twirler conventions, and the annual renewal of the 
· Charismatics. The Library sounds like a library should, and the other library has vacant seats. : The townies sole disadvantage is that his home becomes a storage bin during the summer months. As va­cation draws near the requests be­gin: "Could you store this one small box for me, pleeeese?" Translation: one fifty-pound box of cinderblocks for next year's bookcase. No prob~ lem really. One courtesy I do ask: 
·no more South Bend slander! D 


. . 

:~·-~·-==-:·_;~~----J'_;.;.· _;;:.
p../~~2~-::---.­
---;~~--=--~~ 
-~. ::.. ---. _... --:". -.-------=­

_. _ --------. 
. ::::_:::"'.. ~~---:~ --:--....:.._-. :--. ...· 

by Theresa Rebeck



Perspective 

A few weeks ago, while I was recognized that while the· students lesson Notre Dame has to teach us? having lunch with some people from -are screaming for radical changes, Are we actually supposed to be­my dorm, the girl who lives down what we actually want is simply lieve that the authority figure is the hall from me suddenly looked up . more control over our lives. We want always right? When we graduate from her copy of the Observer an-• to be recognized as adults, capable of and move on to form families and grily. Some administrative official making our own decisions. Acting on careers, are we then supposed to let had just turned down a student re-this premise, the student representa-the social, political, and economic quest or, called us _«youngsters" or tives have tried to use the Notre systems of America run our lives? something-it happens so often Dame system, as it stands, to change There are apparently enough stu­these days, I can't even remember the system into, hopefully, some-dents here who would go along with the details of. this particular case-thing. better. these suppositions, because although and she looked over at me and said, Unfortunately, it seems that one people complain about the "unrea­"1 swear, the only thing they teach of the mandates of the "Notre Dame sonable administration" the com­you here is not to buck the system." system" is "there shalt be no change, plaints are usually nothing more 
•She flipped the page and started no matter how carefully thought out than a lot of noise. Two weeks ago, looking for Molarity, completely un-or reasonable the proposed change when Carroll Hall residents stuck concerned again. I practically fell may be." Let's look at the parietal their necks out in an attempt to out .of my seat. 'The truth of her question again, even though it's been make a statement about parietals, offhand remark hit me right in the drilled into. the ground so often I they were met with a wave of ap­stomach: we, ·the . student body of have to cringe every time I hear the athy that just _about drowned the Notre Dame, are being taught that word. The CLC has asked that whole issue. Their methods were a it never, never pays to make waves: breaking -parietals become a hall little absurd, granted, but absurdity We are being carefully prepared for offense. This does not change the is appropriate in an absurd situa­a life of conservative living. rule itself; it just gives us, as stu-tion. It was all for naught, how-
The 1978-79 school year began . dents, a little more say in the judi-. ever; the rest of the campus hedged with a lot of student unrest, origi-ciat processes involved when that .. around too long. If bucking the sys­nally prompted by the now infamous rule is· broken. Everyone in the ad-· tern means taking risks, then maybe "Alcohol Directive." ·students began ministration, including Father Hes-you'd better count us out. to realize that they should be lead-. burgh, deems this request un­
ing more autonomous lives, making. reasonable. God bless this year's student gov-more of their own decisions. They Perhaps .this request has been de-ernment representatives; at leaSt asked, through student publications, nied because it reeks of childishness they hung on and tried. AndY Mc­forums,. and Hall Presidents' Coun-and triviality. Perhaps the adminis-Kenna and his cohorts have worked cil meetings, that the administration trationis just tired of hearing about hard trying to inStigate the changes ease up on some of the stricter rules. ·it -everyone's been complaining the students requeSted. Perhaps They. asked to be treated more ma-since women were admitted and it · some people will call this work turely. Administrative officials ad-became an issue. Perhaps the admin-waSted; perhaps some people con­vised the students to look to their istration thinks· we are not mature sider the concerns for which McKen­elected representatives and the CLC, enough to handle'this "tremendous" na and his gang worked trivial. I to go through the proper channels change, or perhaps they think we're can only half agree with these as­to instigate changes in University· too preoccupied with the whole sertions. As students, we probably policy. _ thing, etc., etc. There are answer-should dedicate more time and ener-
The students complied. All year, ing arguments, good ones, to every gy to matters of more importance, the student government representa-one of :the administration's objec-but it's hard to worry about some­tives have been beating their brains tions. We've been through them all,.· thing like world hunger when you out; looking at· student requests, and the·rule still stands. ·can't even figure out how to live evaluating their feasibility, and in-Calmly, judiciously, the. student your own life. And besides, if we vestigating the different considera~ body representatives have tried to can't inStigate simple changes at this tons involved in each one. They have explain to the administration the middle-sized, MidweStern _univer­tried to act as mediators between rationale behind the , proposed sity, why should we be able to the students and the administration, changes. The rationale is solid: If change the world? taking somewhat radical demands,-· we are to develop into mature, ethi-Well, I don't really believe that such as the total abolition of. pari-cal Christians, we must learn to last sentence, but I'm one of the etals; and turning them into more make decisions. We must learn to foolish few who still believe that in­reasonable ones__.:_put the enforce-_ choose · a moral code by which we dividuals can change the world. I'm ment of parietals under hall· juris-will live our'lives. Father Hesburgh still an idealist. But then again, may­diction.-· explains that we all have to learn to be I just haven't learned my les-
The= student representatives have follow rules; is that the only moral son yet. . 
MARCH 2, 1979 


FrenchlOl· 
"What's the 11-letter country with Kabul· as its capital?" 
The strawberry blonde two rows over looked at Peter. His heart leapt with joy, this was the chance · that he had been waiting for. 
"Uh ... let me think ... I know it.· ..." · 
She waited a moment for him to answer, then smiled and said, "Oh, that's all right. Maybe I'll find it when I get some more letters." · 
She went back to her puzile. Peter felt both-s~eep­ishly ignorant and somewhat angry at himself. He had been watching that_ girl since the beginning of the semester and had not . yet mustered the courage· to open a conversation. She had practically jumped into his arms and he had blown it 
The class was beginning to fill. This class, two o'clock French 101, was composed of quite a diverse 
· group. Its members ranged from serious linguists to· those who were painfully fulfilling a university re~ quirement. Peter silently surveyed the class, his glance moving from· face to face, rarely making eye contact. As a matter of course while· examining the class, his glance came back to the blonde. He smiled inwardly as he watched her pore over the crossword puzzle. She silently mouthed the directions. He thought that this was when she looked best, like an innocent child; The soft, full hair fell in her face, ·slightly obscuring his view of her warm, delicate face. She was about 5-1, not more than 5-2. · She had twinkling. hazel eyes that told of some delightful secret within. She had white, very white, perfect teeth. She displayed the remnants of a deep, dark tan, which hinted of recently being in a warm.clime. Peter imagined running;along a remote Jamaican beach with her. He saw them frolicking in the surf, with their pants rolled up to their knees, play~ fully embracing and falling to the ground, with the waters rolling upon them. He had to meet her some­how.... · 
"Bonjour,. classe." 
Peter's reverie was shattered by the entrance of the professor. "If everyone would please. open the text to page 104, cent-quatre, we will get started." ­
Peter·followed this direction.. He analyzed the con­tent of the page. The major concern of the page seemed to deal with the present conjugation of the verb "aimer." How ironic, he thought, .. The professor was directing some of the students to the blackboard. Peter watched as the six students each.wrote a sentence using one form of the verb. Michele aime etudier. Vous aimez travailler. J'aime.... In a low whisper he repeatedthe words.· 
"J'aime ce fille. I love that girl.'' · 
He wondered what her name was. Today would be 
the day,that he would find out. He would .... "Pierre!". .. Once again, the professor had shaken Peter: back 
· into reality. Pierre. Peter hated that name. Assigning .
""""""""""'"'"'..._.....:;.,.........:..;;.;.;;......__.;...;;...,.;..........;""""""""'".;....;=='"'"""'=~=~• 

the students French names was one of the stupid extrav~ agances of a language class. Allegedly, it was done to make the students feel more "at home'' with the language. 
"Pierre, go to the board and show us the present conjugation of the verb 'etre.'" 
Peter got up from his seat and went to the board. He wrote out the conjugation. Je suis, tu es, nous sommes, vous etes, ils sont. 
-"Tres bien, Pierre, tres bien." 

The professor motioned Peter back to his seat. Figur­ing that he had fulfilled his participative obligation for today's class, .Peter returned to his preoccupation with the. blonde. Her class name · was Monique. That, and the fact that she seemed to be a somewhat indifferent student, was all he knew about the girl. He would find out .more today. 
-The 50 minutes of the class dragged on very slowly. Peter began racking his brain, struggling to remember the country. He thought "Kabul, Kabul' ... it has to be an Asian country ... maybe North African, or Middle Eastern . ; . Kabul, Mongolia ... M-O-N-G-0-L-I~A ... damn ... eight letters...." 
The class began to rustle as the students prepared to depart. The professor was dictating the assignment. 
"Pour vendredi, fa ire page cent~neuf, exercises un a se'J)t, et dix. Au· revoir." 
As the class. began to file out of the room, Peter fumbled .with his books until the girl neared. As -she passed, he fell into step behind her, trying to remember the country. 
-"Eleven letters, 11 letters. . . ." He followed her down the steps and out of the building. 
"Dammit, what is it?" 

Suddenly, the girl disappeared into a-group of people jostling onto a bus. Peter called out, "Monique! I mean ... wait a minute! .. ; I know!" ­
The girl did not look back. She disappeared into the bus. It was good that she didn't, because Peter did,not really • _know~ -T,he bus lurched away from the_. curb, leaving Peter in a cloud of exhaust fumes that added n_ausea to his feelings of disappointment. As the bus merge(into traffic, Peter slumped onto a nearby bench arid sat dejectedly looking -at the ground. After a few' moments, he reached· into his knapsack and pulled out tli.:rnewspaper that he bo·ught daily on his way to class. As he unfolded and began ·to read the: paper, a· certain headline jumped out at him. Iri big, bold, black letters it read, "U.S. AMBASSADOR·-SL'.AIN IN·AFGHAN~­ISTAN." -0 
MARCH-2,-1979 

The LonelyBoy 
I will never forget the first time that I saw him. In my role as an elementary _school teacher, I, James Melendez, had seen several hundred, perhaps a thousand, children pass through the temporary sanctuary of my classroom on their journey to adulthood. They have been of all colors, shapes, and sizes. Yet, when I met this little boy, Thomas Beckett, I was immediately struck by his subtle, almost angelic, yet somehow foreboding appearance. He stood not more than 50 inches, was of a slight build, and had a most pale complexion. His hair was of a fine, wispy texture, and it was the golden color of the August wheatfield. He wore clothes that blended him congruously into the group ofchildren that were his peers. 
The children at my school, the North Kennicott 
Country Day, were all of an upper-class social stature, 
with most of the parents being some kind of successful 
executive, entertainer, or sports figure. Thomas, how­
ever, stood· out of this homogeneous mixture by virtue 
of one characteristic. He had a hollow look in his eyes 
that I had never before· seen in a child. Those eyes were' 
of the most vapid blue that I have ever seen. I have 
not as yet -determined the cause of this "malady," 
but the eyes stick with me to this day. 
The class that greeted ,me in the fall of 1967 was 
much the same as those before and since. It featured 
several polite and precocious children who differed only 
in face and name from the many others preceding them. 
There were the usual joys and struggles that come with 
eight-year-old children. Our "class play" that -year 
(which was usually an excuse for some of the parents 
to exhibit the "talents"·of their youngsters) was "The 
Little Prince" by de Saint Exupery. With the children 
filling various . roles· as sheep, roses, and baobabs,· I 
played the role of the -downed pilot. · The show, which 
more times than not was nothing more than a fun eve­
ning, turned out this year to be somewhat of a smash­
ing success. This was due to the performance of Thomas· 
as the little prince. I, along with the audience, was 
stunned by the sensitivity shown by Thomas. It was as 
if he were the prince himself. This talent carried over 
into the classroom as well. He was ·extremely with­
drawn, but Thomas' work displayed a depth and sensi­
tivity that was uncommon for a child of his age. Yet 
for all of Thomas' exceptionality, he had a peculiarity -that cast a shadow over his entire being;. 
Every day, I would receive a report from one of the· 
children pertaining to some· malicious or · mischievous 
act allegedly perpetrated by Thomas. One day itwould 
be tripping someone during a recess period'. game, the 
next scratching a face· ·or pulling someone's hair. The 
list of misdeeds was endless: --I had .trouble believing the 
reports in the beginning, being that •:although I -felt 
Thomas to: be ·a somewhat, troubled ·· child, I had not 
experienced any violence out 'of. him. I had been con~ 
cerned about his -almost pathological· introvertedness, 
but I had attributed it to his· precociousness. As the reports became daily, however, I had to acquaint my­self with the situation. 

One day I positioned myself in an inconspicuous posi­tion near the area where the children played during the recess period. As the children aligned themselves into teams for a game of kickball, I kept a close watch on Thomas. He was• the last child picked for a team, and he just drifted with the group as his teammates would switch from bat to field, and vice versa. It was as if he were not there. The other children ignored him, and he did nothing to garner any notice. That was, however, until his turn , to kick came. Thomas gave the first rolled ball a good swift kick, and it flew in the direction of left~center field. He broke into a run and began rounding the bases. As the ball returned to the infield, Thomas rounded second and headed for third. The third baseman received the ball well before Thomas neared the base. Seeing that he was going to .be put out, Thomas ran up to the third baseman, knocked him over and proceeded to pummel him. I entered at this point and broke up the scuffle. I was thoroughly shocked and surprised.• After separating the children, I sent all of them but Thomas inside. Speaking alone with the boy, I asked him ifhe wished to discuss the incident, but I could gain no response. After several minutes of this vain approach; I took Thomas by the hand and led him inside. At the end of the school day I again tried to speak with Thomas, but I could still not evoke any response. After all· the children had left, I went to the registrar's office and. reviewed· Thomas' records. I found a somewhat interesting situation: He had moved into the school at the beginning of the term, . this being the latest of several such moves. His parents were very successful · real-estate entrepreneurs and had amassed a small fortune . before being divorced. Thomas now lived with his mother. I proceeded to call the home, hoping to gain some insight into Thomas' behavior. I was greeted by an answering service which left a num­ber to be dialed in case of an emergency. Out of curi­osity, I. dialed the new number.· It was_ answered by 
fled herself as Thomas' "nanny." .I was told' that the mother was away on a business venture and was to be · contacted only in case of dire emergency. I queried her about the strange behavior of Thomas, but was answered quite coldly. She finally dismissed me with an abrupt interjection that Thomas would soon be living with 
· his father for half of the year and would no . longer be my problem. 
· · The next day, I· paid special attention to Thomas . and tried to open some kind of communication with him. Again, I was faced with an impasse of silence and failed to reach the boy. That day, due to .a. loud and thunderous rainstorm, the students were forced to re­main indoors during the recess· period. ··I once again endeavored to clandestinely observe the children during this time. They chose. to play several different games; among them four-square, jacks, and basketball. Thomas . did not join any of the groups and sat silently to the side of· the gymnasium; watching the others. I was. sud­denly summoned to the aid of one of the children who had fallen, and I lost concern with my observations of -Thomas. After the minor injury had been attended to, . l called the children together. to return to class. · As we returned, I noticed that Thomas had somehow slipped away and disappeared. After situating the children with an ;aide, I began a systematic search for Thomas. I . covered each room of the first floor to no avail. As I . entered the dayroom area of the second floor, however, I caught a glimpse of Thomas sitting on the sidewalk outside. I ran downstairs and watched him for a mo­ment through the glass doors of the building. He .was rolling and manipulating what appeared to be a worm on the concrete. As I opened the doors arid 'slowly ap­proached, he' reached into his pocket ind withdre,w a . broken fragment of glass. Not even noticing my pres~ ence, he began, with slow deliberate strokes, to saw 
. ,· . . . ' . , 
the wo_rm into halves. As I stood there in. the rain, dumbfounded at the action, he picked. up a half. of the worm in each hand, kissed one tenderly and said, "Now 
an older-sounding woman, who upon questioning identi-· . you have someone to love." D 
Re'7iew 

Dire Straits 
by Jeff Huhta and Greg Hull 

"... so much of the music we.hear today is pre-programmed disco ...." 
Blues. Brothers ···· 
Most music today is indistinguish­able. A group establishes a·sound and suddenly the record market is flooded by imitators. Kansas sounds like Journey sounds like Styx sounds like Starcastle. Even established groups desert their original sound to capture the,·, audience. Billy Joel has gorie top-forty, Steely Dan has sold out to ·disco, and The Doobie Brother; are ·soon to follow. Peter Frampton doesn't deserve · nientiori­ing. 
Surprisingly, two groups have emerged within the last · year whose sound shows a mark of dis­tinction.· The Cars 'stormed across America with a postpunk · sound that outshone their. predecessors; Six months later, · another group emerged, this time from England, wlio dared to step over the bound­aries of the current music scene. Dire Straits, with a refreshingly clean sound and style; has its feet firmly planted on this continent be­cause of · the single "Sultans of Swing." 
Dire Straits is a return to the basics of rock, though more acces­sible. The sound is basic and simple; no lavish overdubs are · used and there are no · overpowering ' key­boards · or: synthesizers. Guitars, a bass, and drums carry the entire album. In contrast· to punk, ·Dire Straits boasts the cleanest guitar on vinyl today. How the sound was cre­ated is somewhat of a mystery. Fender guitars are used, and prob­ably Fender. amps. But the produc­tion of . the album deserves credit also. Muff Winwood (brother of Traffic's Steve Winwoo_d, for those who care) has done a superb job; the instruments blend perfectly yet nothing is lost or hidden. What Alan Parsons did for. Pink Floyd's "Dark 
MARCH 2, 1979 
Side of the · Moon," Muff Winwood 
did for Dire Straits. 
Mark Kriopfler; a ratty-haired, ­

illiterate-looking chap with a W. C. 
Fields nose, is the talent behind the 
music. His guitar playing is not com­
plicated or intricate, but is basic. 
The secret lies in his style. Short 
choppy half-chords and simple, pre­
cise leads show a clear control of the 
guitar. He makes it do exactly what 
he • wants. · Like Carlos Santana, 
Knopfler seems to be "one" with his 
guitar. When· he is not singing, the 
guitar speaks for him, but unlike 
Carlos Santana, Knopfler says· it 
simply. 
The other musicians in the group 

offer more than adequate· backup. 
The rhythm guitarist, Knopfler's 
brother, shows the same style in his 
playing. The bass is kept unobtru­
sive and simple. The drummer gives 
excellent support, . and production 
has brought out the ·cymbals, where 
most of the snappy beat is created. 
Mark Knopfler, like Mick Jagger 

and various others, is one more ex­
ample of a singer who proves you 
don't have to know how to sing well 
to be a success. His voice, though 
certainly not a potential candidate 
for the Notre Dame Glee Club, is 
certainly capable of expressing the 
thoughts and emotions he wants. 
Sounding at times like a younger 
Lou Reed or Bob Dylan, his rough, 
strained voice half-talks through 
songs about loneliness, rejection, 
and miserable . people hurting one 
another. He seems to plead with the 
listener for pity, or at least relief 
from the misery of life: 
"I've been too long · 1onely and my 
heart feels pain ­

Crying out for some soothing rain 
I believe I have taken enough 
I need a little water of love 
"Once I had a woman I could call , my own Once I had a woman now .my woman is gone Once there was a river now there's a stone : You know it's evil when you're living · alone 
"Ignored by all the trendy boys in London and Leeds He might as well have been making toys or strings of beads · Fie could not be in the gallery" 
Since Mark Knopfler writes all the 

songs, this tends to leave him sound­ing like a down-on-his-luck suicide case. This is not true, however. Most of the songs seems to have a thin vein of hope running through them. .Not everyone winds up a forgotten, penniless bum;.an outcast from con­vention. No matter how much mis­ery a person goes through, there seems to be reason to keep on going: 
"Southbound again 
Last night I felt like crying 
right now I'm sick of living 
but I'm going to keep on trying" 
Dire Straits, however, has a prob­

lem of sorts on its hands: it has a 
hit. "Sultans of Swing" is on every­
body's mind, though· not that it 
shouldn't be. The snappy guitar 
chords, rough vocals, and up-tempo 
beat make it a natural. Besides, it 
has possibly the greatest "hook" 
ever written. You wait the whole 
song to hear Knopfler say "We are 
the Sultans of Swing," and once 
you've heard it, you want to pick 
up the needle (or call your radio 
station) to hear the line once again. 
He even fakes you out once, flashes 
his guitar, and then tells you. It's 
perfect! 
. The group's dilemma · is where to 
go from here. The massive-hit-on­
your-first-album syndrome is dan­
gerous. Don McLean suffered this 
with "American Pie," vanishing into 
obscurity thereafter. Foreigner, on 
the other hand, skidded into · the 
Top 40 scene with their hit "Feels 
Like the First Time." Dire Straits 
must be careful. "Sultans of Swing" 
was not intended to be a hit, it just 
happened.. But. what will happen 
now? We can only wait and see how 
fame affects yet .another · group. 
Hopefully, they can ignore it. If 
their lyrics are ariy indicatjon; Dire 
Straits should escape the fate-of so 
many groups before them. If Dire 
Straits are the "Sultans of Swing," 
perhaps they too can discard public 
opinion and play what they want: 
"And the Sultans played Creole." 
.

Jeff Hulita, a fine drummer, re­sides in Grace Hall and is a member· of Scholastic's photography staff. Greg Hull, a junior government major, lives in Grace also. ·Greg and his 12-string guitar can be seen f re­quently at the Nazz. · · · 

... ---­





Exceeding ExjJectations .· 
You might say that when Notre Dame hockey coach Lefty Smith and assistant coach and. recruiting co­ordinator Ric Schafer looked ahead to the 1978-79 season a little over a year .ago, they were like two con­struction foremen trying to figure out the best way to patch the numerous holes _that lay on the road in front of · them. There were many holes to fill, and some of them were quite big. 
Notre Dame was losing its top five scorers,· its only two goaltenders and two defensemen' to graduation. On paper. those losses appeared big, and most people felt all those holes in the road could not be filled. But if Schafer could fill holes in the road the way he . filled the holes in the Irish lineup this year, he'd make a fortune in the con­struction business. The ride may have been a bit bumpy in the middle, .but ot~er than-that, Notre Dame's drive through the Western_ . Collegiate Hockey Association season this. year has been nothing but one smooth trip. When the Grand Forks Herald in North Dakota came out with its an­nual ~oaches' preseason poll way back in .October, t_he name· Notre Dame was nowhere to be found among the top five-or six~r even seven. The Irish were written off to finish tied for eighth out of the 10-team WCHA. 

by Brian Beglane 
But out of the seven years that poll had been published, it had been right only once. Well, you can now make that once out of eight. 
Not only has Notre Dame shown it can skate at' the top of the WCHA, the Irish have also shown they can skate with the best in the country. · Althought Notre Dame occupied first place in the league for only one week this year, it has never dropped lower than fifth and has aH but claimed squatters' rightsto second place. And while occupying first place back in November, the Irish were voted No. 1 in the nation for two weeks and have been among the top five in the country for most of the year. All this comes from a team that was picked to finish two spots above last. 
.''Yes, the way,we have been play~ 

· ing has far exceeded my expecta­tions," said Smith. "I knew the play­ers we had coming in had good cre­dentials and, based on Ric Schafer's observations of them, knew they could contribute to the team. But I have to admit I never expected our freshmen to play such a vital role for our club. As it turns out, we have been more than pleasantly · sur­prised." 
-~ . "Pleasantly surprised" could be the · understatement , of the year. Notre Dame's freshman skaters have scored almost half of the team's 'goals, as­sisted on almost half of the club's scores, and totaled over a third of the team's points. Without a doubt, they have played a large part in the team's success. 
"The WCHA has never been known as a freshman or even a sophomore league,"_ commented Smith, who is finishing up his 10th year at the helm of the Irish. "As you look at our success this season, a large part of it has to be attributed to the freshmen. The way_ .they have gone out and competed :on the ice, the ~ay they have_ worked . in .· practice, the. way they have worked themselves in as part of the team,· and lastly, the way they have adjusted to life here at Notre Dame, has all been fantastic. 
"At times i~ the beginni~g of the year we would have six freshmen out on the ice, and i{ you think about it, the thought of that is a little bit scary. But they came through very well. Everyone in the league has been amazed at this, and not with just our freshmen, but with other teams' new players as well. _In preseason, most coaches felt the teams with the se­niors and juniors returning would dominate the league. But-this year, on the contrary, the WCHA has probably been the closest ·and most balanced it has ever been. We showed with our consecutive· sweeps of Duluth and Minnesota in·. February that, yes, we have played a big part in the balance of the league."
-'. -, ­

Out of the 20 players Smith dresses for every game, nine· freshmen have suited up throughout the year. .That is quite a few, and has made Notre Dame the youngest team in the WCHA. _The success· the Irish have enjoyed despite being. so young has not only made them_;the clear~cut surprise team in the .WCHA, but also the surprise. team in the nation this year. All the. elements of the surprise began .. taking. shape . when Schafer took to the road recruiting last year. 
"I· spent aboutlO weeks. on the road last year recruiting," explained the former Irish hockey captain. "At the outset I had a goal of bringing in 10 or 11 players, and that's just what I was able to do; They are all very smart hockey players ·and com­bine very well all the things I look for when I recruit.First, they are all 
SCHOLASTIC 


good students. Secondly, they·are all good young men. I felt comfortable with them, they all had good person­alities. And lastly, they all possess good hockey sense. 
"I knew there would be some ad­justments involved when the season began," continued Schafer, "but I never expected to finish eighth either and have another losing season. Yes, I really thought we could be this good, so I'm not that surprised. There are no superstars on our team, it's a chemistry of unselfish players that has given us our success. We are not overly offensive-minded, nor defen­sive-minded. It's a very good blend of both." 
Throughout the first half of the year, the Irish blazed along for a 9-4-1 league record and second place heading into the Christmas break. But when the season started again in January, Notre Dame hit a bad slump, a skid for which Smith could find no reason. The Irish dropped from second to fifth place, and many were saying the team's youth had finally taken its toll.· Then the Irish turned. things around dramatically, and won five straight, the first two weeks in February, en route to sec­ond place once again. 
If anyone could come up with an explanation for the slump, freshman wing Pat Devine of Madison, Wisc., probably came up with the best. 
'.'Most of us (the freshmen) were used to a season that lasted only four months or so," offered Devine, "not one that is almost year~round. That's what probably happened in midseason. It took some adjustment to get used to the longer·season, but once we got over that, we got rolling again.'' . 
Was that the reason? Perhaps, but no one can be sure just what the exact reason for the midseason slump was. , Devine's explanation; though, is strong support for just how valu­able the freshmen have .been to the team this season.· 
And no one has played a more· valuahle role as a freshman this year than Dave· Laurion has in filling the void in the Irish nets.· The pint-size (5-7; 155) goaltender started· the first game of the year for the Irish out in Colorado Springs, and has been a regular fixture since. In fact, some people thought he could not take the ,vear and tear of playing both nights 
·!' 

1· --~­
Lefty Smith: pleasantly surprised with Frosh 
each weekend. He has more than proven them wrong and at one point started in nine straight contests. 
Has his play been surprising? You bet, especially when you consider the fact he didn't becomethe No. 1 goal­tender . until · almost the day of the season opener. 
"Dave is not what you would call a classic-style goaltender,"· notes Smith, "but he is a very strong com­petitor. When it comes to game situa­tions, he comes up with the big saves and goes far beyond what he shows in practice. It seems the tougher the game gets, the tougher he plays. His competitive attitude makes him an extremely valuable asset . to the team." 
Surprising . still? Yes, especially when you also consider what his main goal was before the season began. 
"My goal before the season began was to play in_ 10 games,"· said· the native of International. Falls, Minn. "Other than that, I hadn't set any goals. But now I look forward to the play-offs. We just have to ·keep our consistency going. The hottest team in February is usually the one: that goes the farthest.". , 
Laurion surpassed his goal· of ap:. pearing in 10 games just 11 · games into the season.-That all but explains what he has meant' to this ·year's team. He had to replace Len Moher and John Peterson, two goalies who shared duties for four years. · As a result, he was also the first :goal­tender Schafer ever recruited.· 
"I was a little bit worried because I had never recruited a goalie be­fore," explained Ric, "so I asked a few people what I should look for.­Most said to look for someone wlio· is mobile on his skates, and as soon as I saw Dave, he fit that mold. He just ran out onto the ice and stayed ahead of the forwards while skating around: 
.-"But Dave is also acrobatic arid versatile. He is a good · all-around athlete and when he falls down, he 
·· gets up quickly. He's got a good uri..'. derstanding of the angles as well, something . he probably --got from being coached by Larry Ross; who is an excellent , goalie coach. , He has really done an outstanding job.'' There is a standing joke that has been going on all season· long with the team that they are all waiting for Laurion to make his first save in practice. At times he can be quite a 

sight out there, getting mad at him­self when too many pucks go by. He'll start waving the stick and banging the goalposts with_ it. He just plain doesn't like facing all those shots. 
"After a while it becomes so easy for the forwards to score on you in practice," explains Laurion. "They have played against you so often in practice that they know your weak­nesses and can pick them out every time. It becomes hard on a goalie to face all _that." 
His competitive attitude, though, has kept him among the top five in WCHA goaltending this year, and has kept Notre Dame in many a game. 
While Laurion has been stopping all the shots in goal, more than a few Irish freshmen have been lighting up the red light at the other end of the 
·ice. Dave ·Poulin, Bill Rothstein, Jeff l'erry, Jeff Logan and Dick Olson all have been seeing regular action, and have all been bothering opposing goaltenders .. 
Poulin, .Rothstein . and Perry, in fact, _have skated together as -a unit most of th_e year, and have been very effectiye as:Notre Dame's third line. They;totalthe most hat tricks of any li_ne, ·as. a matter of fact. Poulin has two. while_-Rothstein has one.. 
"We put the three freshmen to­
gether in preseason practice to see 
how they could play together and 
also to give the other returning 
players a chance at the third line," 
said Smith. "After a while, though, 
it became evident that Poulin, Roth­
stein and Perry would form a very · 
effective unit, so we moved them up. 
They have more than carried their 
share of the offensive load." 
Poulin, in fact, is the team's lead­
ing scorer and has been a regular 
member. of the power play unit all 
season long, a rarity indeed in the 
WCHA. There's also a-story behind 
the recruitment of Poulin. 
"I actually had never seen Dave 
play, he was the one who got in touch 
with me,'' explained Schafer. "I was 
out scouting and had handed out 
some information about Notre Dame, 
and one of those players gave .that to 
Dave and he .wrote me. I then went 
to see him, and as soon as I saw him, 
I knew we had to have him. While he 
was out on the ice, you could not miss 
him. Most often he was where· the 
p_uck was. 

"And when he came down to visit us," smiled Schafer, "he almost didn't make it. He didn't get· off his plane .in Detroit and .called me from Mil.: waukee. Seriousiy, though, . he's a 
very smart. and capable player and · 
will make a name for himself around 
here." 
Along with .his linemates Roth­

stein and Perry, Poulin has already 
made a name for himself. The three 
blend in very well together to form 
an effective unit. 
"Perry is the defensive forward, 

the man who will go into the corner 
and dig out the puck," observed 
Smith. "Rothstein is the faster skater, 
the one with explosive speed. And 
Poulin is the man· in between, who'll 
set things up. He is a good offensive 
and defensive forward and makes 
things happen out there. They have 
all been doing an outstanding job." 
Another . first-year player with 

great skating ability is also adding 
firepower , up front.. Jeff. Logan has 
been ·a regular on the second . line 
most of the year, and has established 
himself. as one of the fastest skaters 
in the league. 
"Jeff was.a very quiet.young man 

when he first came here," Smith said,· "so I put·-him with Tom Michalek's line because he and .Tom knew each other. Tom helped_-him out a lot and · helped him gain confidence. Jeff has outstanding skating ability and uses 
it very well." . 
Logan is the first one·. to admit 



Michalek helped him a great deal. 
"I was nervous being teamed with a junior and a sophomore. (Kevin Humphreys)," explained Logan, "but Tom helped me a lot. He is an un­believably smart hockey player and was patient with me while teaching me the plays. He's the one that helped me adjust." 
Dick Olson, Pat Devine ·and Dan Collard have all shared time as the left wing on the fourth line, though Olson has seen the most action. They may not see a lot of ice time, but are still a valuable asset to the team. 
"Devine, Collard and junior Matt Dubois could all fit in very well next year replacing our. four graduating seniors," notes Smith. "They all work very hard. Olson has seen most action on the fourth line this year and has done a good job stepping in like that. I'm very pleased with all of them." 
The defense'"was probably Notre Dame's strongest point heading into the season, but three freshmen have played a key role on the blue line despite the fact Notre Dame returned four experienced men. Jim Brown, John Schmidt and John Cox all have 
;


Ir ,. 

seen action and have adjusted well to their first year of play in the WCHA. 
Brown and Schmidt played the whole first half of the year together, although it was not quite meant to be that way. 
"We teamed Brown and Schmidt together hoping they would prove themselves," said Smith, "and then we had planned to split them up and pair them with someone more ex­perienced. They played so well to­gether, though, that we decided to stick with them and didn't split them until much later than we had antici­pated. They have improved by leaps and bounds as the season pro­gressed. 
"Then John Cox had to step in in January when Don Lucia became ac­ademically ineligible, and he has also improved week by week. I am very pleased with the way all three have played." 
Brown holds the distinction of being one of thefew major collegiate hockey players to live in the sunny climate of Phoenix. Well, he actually comes from Rochester, N.Y., but has lived in Phoenix the last two years. 
"We noticed Jim while we were 

scouting Jeff Brownschidle/' said 
Schafer, "and he impressed us with 
his mobility for someone his size (6-3, 
205 lbs.). He is a very good positional 
player and has been a pleasant -sur­
prise." 
Schmidt distinguishes himself with 

his stick handling and skating ability 
as a defenseman. 
·: "John comes from the new breed 
of defensemen," said Schafer. "He is 
a rushing defenseman. He can move 
the puck as well as any forward and 
is a great asset to us in that respect." 
Like Poulin, Cox made the first 

move in expressing interest in coming 
to Notre Dame. 
"I started looking at colleges my · junior year in high school," said Cox, 
"and I flew down here on my own 
to see what Notre Dame had to offer. 
I was impressed with the friendliness 
of everyone here and how smalt' it 
was for a big-name school. They care 
about you not just as a player, but as 
a person. Lefty and Ric also im­
pressed me as coaches." 
And as is the situation with the 

forwards, there are other defense­
men waiting in the wings to · add 
depth to next year's squad. Freshmen 
Greg Kania and Matt Brach and 
sophomore Paul Gagnon all are ready 
to step in in case of injury to' keep 
the Irish. defensive corps strong. 
When you consider the fact Notre 
Dame will lose no defensemen to 
graduation, things on the blue line 
certainly look bright for the near 
future. 
"I feel I can say without a . doubt 

that this year's group of freshmen 
is the best we have ever brought in," 
said Smith. "It is all a tribute to the 
recruiting ability of Ric Schafer. Ric 
has a real insight as to what a player 
needs to play at Notre Dame and in 
the WCHA. He has done a fantastic 
job the three years he has been here 
and has played a big part in the suc­
cess of our program." 
Yes, it was a tough job filling all 

those holes created this year. ·But 
Schafer countered by bringing in the 
necessary players and helping Smith 
in molding them into the successful 
club they have become. Put the talent 
the Irish have brought in together 
with the coaching ability of Smith 
and ·Schafer and you've .got a com­
bination that should keep Notre 
Dame a front-runner in hockey·for 
Freshmen Schmidt. Laurion, and Brown mind the net some years to come. . 


Profiles in Power 
As I set out to do this profile on some outstanding campus personali­ty, the old standbys naturally came to mind: some impressive adminis­trator, an interesting professor, per­haps an unusual groundkeeper"' But then I got the urge to' write about people with real power, with the sig­nificant influence necessary for the smooth operation of a major univer­sity. I didn't opt for. Hesburgh or Roemer or O'Meara; they've got a modicum of influence, but still not to the degree · for which I was searching. As I hunted around, I dis­covered that when you want power, don't look to the inner offices of the campus· elite, but go into the outer office and gaze in awe at the unflus­tered woman with a pencil in her mouth, a typewriter in her hand, a crying student in her lap, and a look of .resigned acceptance of Murphy's Law: ·If anything can go .wrong­she doesn't want to know about it. 
And so, as it turns out, this is a pro­file on the proverbial woman behind the man (as it were), the taur de force, :the brains behind the opera­tion at. the University: the campus 
· secretaries. 
When you think about it, every as­pect of your life here will at some time be touched by one of; the Uni~ versity's hundreds of . secretaries. From the fixing of your. Form 50 when it turns out that you have twenty-three credit hours all sched­uled for, the same time to the filing of your pink. slips and . your on­campus (hopefully) housing cards, the average Notre Dame secretary determines, in a somewhat obscure .yet significant manner, your aca­demic ,sanity, your financial.footing, and the -smooth operation of your college years. Quite .a mouthful. 
· Peering up from behind a. stack of manila envelopes, a· pile. of un­recognizable ·forms, a-. typewriter running away· with the paper, and 
a. telephone with ; more blinking lights than. pushbuttons,· are a pair of huge eyes belonging to one person 
by Marcy Weigle 

Sandy Thomas. Sandy, whose North make on the football field. Carolina heritage becomes apparent As Mario comes through the office after two drawled words, has been with instructions about · some · intri­Student Activities Secretary since cate budgets that have me more August, 1978, when her husband, confused than my financial aid John Thomas, was accepted here on forms, Sandy · just nods knowingly a football scholarship. Sandy never and turns her attention to one of the actually intended to choose the role phone's spastic light's while at the of a secretary as a profession ("If saine time placating a bereaved I could be doing anything now, I'd student who had just fallen into her be in the Peace Corps") and stresses chair. So if you're in LaFortune and the role of fate in the acquiring of see Sandy in· the Student Activities her current position. "I'm a secre­Office being a real "diz-head" (that's tary. here because John received a her own word for herself), don't let scholarship. I wouldn't be here if it her fool-you...:.:..she transforms con­weren't for him." fusing confusion into organized · · Still, Sandy. has thrown herself confusion with a perfection that is · into her job with great . aplomb. unparalleled. When I asked her what exactly· it From there, I went · up to the 3rd was that she does each· day, she Floor of LaFortune to see exactly laughed as if a better · · question what kind of woman it takes to hold would have been, "Exactly what is it together the sometimes hectic oper­that you don't do?" From organiz­ation of the Observer and I found ing the lives of John Reid, Student Ms. Ceil Popovich. Ms. Popovich, Activities Director, and Mario Pedi, unlike Sandy, is a seasoned secretary 
· Assistant Director, to getting keys with every intention of working at .made for the various Student Offices, Notre Dame; This full-time Observer Sandy tackes her job with more deft secretary has · worked here since moves than her husband · could ever 1952, first as secretary to the Dean 
,' ",: ,, ' _.,,..
\ . ._·. . .. a ..,.t .,... · 
___,_...,.___..,' __ A,' ... ... ,,rs.·
·"' . .. : ---·--,.::; 
willing to take on the challenge: Connie Maher 

. '•.,, 
.
' . . 
~ 

' . 
It)--...
.J ' . '(~•••f'....... t'J Sandy Thomas 
of the College of Arts and Letters, have Ceil, who not only notices what then· as secretary to the Dean of the has to be done, but does it with ease. College of Science. She took four Next, I ventured up to the offices · years· off as she and her husband on. the third floor of O'Shaughnessy adopted two children ·_and in 1971 · where I met the fascinating secre­she resumed her career as a perma­tary· who helps to · keep the English nent fixture in the Observer Office. Office running smoothly. Contrary to 
As you walk into this office,. Ceil, the Elizabeth Taylor namepl_ate on as everyone knows her, looks ·like her desk, her name is Connie Maher, the calm ·after some raging storm.. probably one of the most interesting As people run around with last­people you'll meet on campus. minute .stories, as· the day editor Connie came to Notre Dame as a scrambles to · find the phone .that is secretary after holding a long list ringing, as the natural pandemonium of sometimes monotonous, some­of a newspaper's operation reigns in times exciting jobs. She has worked the · office, Ceil sits calmly at ·her in knitting mills, in various corpora­desk/ nonchalantly_ handling any­tions, and in diverse modeling jobs. thing that has to get done; . _... . Connie held the title of City Tennis 
She· describes as her main· func­Champion · as a -young wciinan in tion the organization of the various Dayton, Ohio; from there she went activities ·involved in printing .the to Hollywood. In . Hollywood, she Observer. She accepts Personals, de­worked for variou·s Warner Brother's ciphers Personals, interprets· Per­screenplay . writers,· took ··, dictation sonals, handles some of'the display on the.sets, and became acquainted advertising, . arid takes care of the with: various Hollywood 'personali­billing, along with ·numerous other ties such as Humphrey Bogart. Is odds-and-ends jobs. Before·she ·took her life · here any · less _exciting? over .the Observer secretarial job · "Well, it's different," she smiles. . . eight years ago, there was never She came here ten years ago seek­anyone to handle the various tasks ing a · job in the Sports Department that sometimes go unnoticed but so as to appease her penchant for would cause· great problems if they basketball players but ended up in didn't get done. Prior to 1971, if the English Office, mucli to the relief someone .working on the .Observer of the ··• English students, · English noticed, by chance, a secretarial duty profs, and any 'hapless wanderer that had to be done, they did it when through the office. "Connie's a riot," they had a spare minute, which were says one English Office groupie. few and far between. I'fow they "She's great to talk to and kill a 
Ceil Popovich 
few minutes with on your way to class." It's students like this who are the reason for Connie's contentment at Notre Dame. "My whole life re­volves around the various students 
.· I meet here. I like people at ND­that's the only reason I stay here." 
Indeed, Connie's job is very people-oriented. The constantly full candy jar on her desk and the cal­endar overflowing with scribbled personal messages are a constant in­vitation for interaction with stu­dents. She acts not only as a secre­tary in the strict sense of the word by setting appointments, typing forms, and acting as O'Shaughnes­sy'.s Maintenance Supply Depart­ment (she's often interrupted by someone begging to borrow her hammer and nails), but as an active personality in the various functions ·of the English Department. Connie's obvious skill as a secretary shows not .only in her adeptness with a typewriter but with the people she meets every day; 
And so, as you stumble from office to office, taking care of all. the mo­notonous little jobs that have to be completed before you graduate, keep in mind the secretaries who have to worry about another monotonous job after they get done with yours. And be assured that Connie's state­ment that "secretaries have a lot to do with keeping the wheels turn­ing" is no small understatement. D 
The Last Word 
by Jake Morrissey 

There was a. certain stillness at the core of it all, a stillness of warmth that comes only under the 
. most extraordinary of circum­stances. All four of.them were sit­ting in the car late at night when the night and day become synony­mous. The two in front were male: on~ cynical, cutting and afraid; the other an affable, contemplative sort, also afraid. I>hysically, they were dissimilar, reflecting the quiet child­hood of the one and the athletic. exuberance of the other. In the back were the other two, this time women_, both sensitive, both· intent· on pursuing, but in different ways. The four had once been three, but the fourth joined easily, stepping into :what had previously been considered a tightly formed unit. Their.indi­vidual relationships _to one another were as tenacious as barnacles: they clung to them as if the world was about to burst wide open. But all of them realized, though none of them articulated it, that once the mo­ment had passed they would go back to being what they once were. And it would be accepted. It had to be. 
The fairway was long, and it ended on a hill, so he couldn't see its termination from where he was standing. It didn't matter; he didn't play. But the place was good for him, just standing there. Looking around, he realized that there really wasn't much to see. The obligatory trees,· shrubbery, the sun with its spring promise. It didn't matter; he didn't play. 
He was a photographer by trade and by nature. His eye saw the world through a frame. It was a process of selection that he did in­stinctively, and he did it well. He · reveled in beauty and looked at life with a refreshing vibrance. His auburn beard was his hallmark. . 
"How did he die?" 
"Old age." 
"You can't die of old age. You can 
die becaus·e your heart stops beat­ing or your liver gives out or your stomach stops digesting, but you can't die of old age:" · 
UYes you can." 
"How. do you know?" 
"I don't know. I feel." 
The note read:· "I don't know how 
much newspapering you've learned . 
this summer but I know you have the 
makings of a fine reporter and we 
will all miss you, though not nearly 
as much as I will. 
"Always have a crack or joke ­
ready to go. Ithelps keep things 
smooth. 
"Never, ever, be afraid _to walk 
into a party. _Your light shines like 
a star and I'm glad I had a chance 
to bask in its glow for a while any­
way.!'· · · 
"Suzanne," I asked her, ''is there 
anybody in this world whom you · 
like all the time?"· 
She thought for a moment. · 
"N:o," she said.: 
Such are an afternoon's musings. 
. 

RUN FOR IT! 
SCHOLASTIC IS LOOKING FOR A FRONTRUNNER.FOR THE 1979-80 EDITORIAL BOARD POSTITION OF 
EDITOR-IN~CHIEF 
. 

Interested starters are encouraged to contact Jake Morrissey_ at: 7569 o~ 3632. Application deadline is March 14, 1979; election will be held Sunday,April1, 1979. · . · 





