The Notre Dame
GILBERT'Sa One Man Tells Another - 813-817 S. MICHIGAN, Open Evenings
2
The Scholastic
Be The Picture Of COMFORT In Your
Arrow "Gabanaro”
‘Early to Rise’
Editor:
I have read with enjoyment and edification “Guests at Gethsemani” in the February 10 issue of the Scholastic. While reading about our students rising at five and two o’clock in the morning to engage in the exercises of a retreat and in the Oifices of the Trappist monks, I was distracted by the following thought: Here at Notre Dame there are Masses said at 5:55 a.m. by priests who rise at 5:00 a.m. year in and year out, and yet in spite of the large number of students we have on the campus, there are not enough Mass servers on hand to take care of these Masses. For those students who wish to practice the self-denial of early rising and at the same time enjoy the tremendous spiritual values of the Mass, there is a rich opportunity each morning in the Basement Chapel at 5:55 a.m.
A special word of commendation is due to those students who are on hand for the early Masses rain or shine.
(Rev.) Christopher J. O’Toole, c.s.c.
® Students Miss a Lot!
Editor:
Your article on “What’s Happened to the Scholastic” provides many of us with a chance to toss the proverbial stone. Let me first tell you which way. The discussion you gave was so impressive that one must agree with you. Now you know whose side I am on.
Certainly the points you bring out - about creativeness and intellectual interests seem to reflect the greatest undercurrent prevailing at Notre Dame — especially among the younger student body . . .
Notre Dame men just seem to miss a lot that could be theirs. The football games, downtown, and foaming heads will all be here when they return as alumni. However, the opportunities as a student will no longer be theirs. The chapel in each hall the library with its < great wealth, the various intellectual activities can never mean the same after graduation.
I want to say more but also want everyone to get to the rest of the summary in this week’s mag.
Name Withheld
Last week’s article was not exactly “our” view but only that of Mr. Kelley han. You’ll find our attitude toward what the Scholastic should be on the editorial page of this issue.—Editor.
‘ Feb. 24, 1950
A smooth, rugged, washable gabardine sports shirt in solid maroon, navy blue, forest green, fireman red and other colors — that’s “Gabanaro”.
Good looking and long wearing, “Gabanaro” is an Arrow sports shirt you’ll be proud to own. See your Arrow dealer today !	®5.95
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adlers for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
A new shirt free if your Van Hensen shrinks out of size!
Van Heusen i •. Rec.T.M.
"the world’s smartest” UlUl. ID
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
with |ust the correct Oxford accent
Nothing is more suited to Esquire’s new "American Informal” theme in men’s wear than the traditional college man's favorite. . . the oxford button-down. Casual, comfortable. Van Hensen Button-downs are tailored with the correct campus air. In whites, colors .. . and with wide-spread Van Britt and regular collar. So ... "Button down, Winsocki, Button down” . . . with Van Heusen! $3.65
The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
Campus Affiliate of A.C.S. Swells List of Campus Clubs
A new club, the Notre Dame Chemistry Club, has recently been added to the roster of campus organizations. The group is affiliated with the American Chemical Society. No previous club of this nature has ever existed at Notre Dame, although there are several similar organizations in other colleges.
The Chemistry Club will provide educational and social activities for its members, as well as helping them to gain insight into the professional side of their careers. Such an insight will help them in choosing their specialized field from among the 19 sections of the American Chemical Society. Members of the club will be eligible for the A.C.S. employment clearing house service upon their graduation.
Many important activities of the club are now in the planning stage. Technical movies will be shown and a program of guest speakers will be presented. It is expressly planned that many of the speakers will be from the liberal arts fields.
Officers of the club are William Cushman, president; Robert Anderson, vice-president; Colin McKay, secretary; and Jack Gossens, treasurer.
Journalism Juniors Begin ® Publication Lab Project
The first 1950 issue of The Journalist, Department of Journalism workshop newspaper, was published today by a staff of Juniors as a laboratory project.
The Journalist will appear six times this semestei- and for each edition an entirely new staff will handle the publication. Mr. Edward J. Fischer of the Department of Journalism is supervising the junior journalism project.
Gene Ferryman is the first issue managing editor. Other staff heads are Larry McDermot, chief copy editor; Jim Carroll, assistant copy editor; Jim Carrig, city editor; George Schwartz, sports editor, and Ray Sullivan, assis-ant sports editor.
GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
Choose your 9
VAN HEUSEN SHIRTS $2.95 up from the complete selection in the Men's Shop at
First Floor
toiimm
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
by [ack McGoldrick " ~
Top of the Week
Junior: We’re trying to get Tommy Dorsey for the prom!
Home in Indiana
A sure sign of approaching Spring is the annual Hoosier Hysteria — that much publicized and often fatal disease common only to the state of Indiana. Hoosier Hysteria, of course, is the Indiana State High School Basketball Tournament. In the past, present, and for many futures to come, this event will have received press coverage in almost every publication from Life magazine to the South Bend Tribune, and it has become traditional for the WEEK, to say a few words on the subject once every February.
After a few years of exposure to Hysteria, those of us who are not Indianans by birth or naturalization, either contract the symptoms, or* become immune, much the same as people back in the Middle Ages used to accustom themselves to the plagues common to their times.
Once your will is broken, you just
sit back and absorb basketball for breakfast, lunch and dinner — for close to a month, basketball crowds everything off the news pages and the air waves except Li’l Abner and the Kreamo bread commercials. (Last year, out of fifty-eight radio stations in the state, WND was the only one that did not carry any part of the tournament proceedings.)
In 1949, excitement reached a new high locally, when South Bend Central High invaded the real Hoosierland of the southern part of the state, and after some 600 other teams had been eliminated, got as far as the finals at Indianapolis.
This year, two factors will magnify the importance of Hysteria: Central has been rated top team in the state, and is the Associated Press choice to bring the state crown to South Bend for the first time in thirty years. This is consoling in a way, for if past AP polls can be used as a basis for picking the ultimate winner, Central will never get out of the sectional round, thereby reducing hysteria contagion in this immediate area.
The other factor is the coal strike, and the fuel needed to heat high school gymnasiums. Perhaps John L. Lewis,
who probably doesn’t like basketball either, had an ulterior motive when he first called the miners out. As the Scholastic goes to press, it has not yet been decided whether the national emergency will be allowed to interfere with the tourney, but it’s a safe bet that the Democrats will not risk their political lives by letting any such thing happen. If one Republican coal dealer could dig up enough coal to heat one basketball court, the GOP wouldn’t have to campaign in Indiana for another generation. But as IHSAA Commissioner L. V. Phillips pointed out to Governor Schricker the other day: once hysteria gets going, the fans generate so much heat themselves, that they need ventilation more than fuel.
So it looks as if the ’50 follies will take place as scheduled. The WEEK is taking 15 to 1 that Central goes all the way. (Might as well enter into the spirit of things.)
Roman Holiday
Here on the campus, another kind of hysteria that is becoming as much a
It’s fun
to DANCE
... when you learn the exclusive George Davis way!
PRIVATE STUDIOS ...
Alice and George Davis
New LOW RATES to NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Call 3-8229 for FREE LESSON
For those who wish to learn in strictest privacy, George Davis offers private studio instruction in addition to our beautiful main ball room . . . Visitors welcome to our DANCE FIESTA every Thursday at 9 p. m.
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
South Bend Elkhart
106 W. Monroe at Michigan 215J/2 S. Main Street
tradition as Father (Sr.) Brennan’s Logic course, was unfolded last Friday night with the Mardi Gras formal at the Palais Royale. Although dampened by the (jr.) blizzard on Saturday, the merriment survived the week-end, and really spread itself in the Drill Hall on Monday and Tuesday with two days of Buick and Chevrolet winning, gaming tables and carnival spirit. Everything was wrapped up in purple by Wednesday and put away for another year, leaving Foreign Student Relief the big winner by some §10,000.
Bottom of the Week
Senior: Oh Yeah?
MARRIAGE FORUM
The fourth session of the Institute on Christian Marriage will he held next Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
The topic of the session is “For the Purpose of Bearing Children...” Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P., will speak on this subject from the viewpoint, “As Willing Co-Creators With God.” Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., has chosen “Unashamed of the Purity of Sex” as his aspect of the topic.
Mr. Hugh P. O’Brien, criminologist and member of the Department of Sociology, will serve as panel member for the forum.
Phone 38229
Phone 24333
Feb. 24, 1950
Entertainment
FEBRUARY 24
GRANADA (through March 2) — The Cardinal Mindszenty case is graphically brought to the screen in Guilty of Treason (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). The picture is done in documentary style and might remind you of Hitler's Children. Charles Bickford, Paul Kelly and Bonita Granville are the leading trio of actors.
AVON (through March 24)—MGM’s Battleground (A-l) comes pretty close to being the best film about the war in Europe, yet to be produced by Hollywood. Although the cast boasts many top stars, this is a “team picture” rather than one in which one glamour boy tries to out emote another. The film has its faults, to be sure, but a better war presentation will be hard to find. N.B.: Notice James Whitmore — ten to one he’ll be a star soon.
PALACE (through March 2)—Number one TV man, Milton Berle, returns to the movies for Always Leave Them Laughing (B). You’ve got to be a Berle fan if you want to enjoy this one, for he’s in it from start to finish. The funniest thing in it is the clowning of Bert Lahr, who practically steals the show from Uncle Milty.
COLFAX (through March 1)—Here’s a fine example of what’s wrong with many Hollywood movies. Malaya stars Spencer Tracy, James Stewart, John Hodiak, Lionel Barrymore and Sidney Greenstreet. With a cast like that one might ask what more could a picture want? The answer is easy: a plot. There is about as much excitement in this melodrama as there is in a Mighty Mouse cartoon.
FEBRUARY 25
WASHINGTON HALL—The Big Steal stars Robert Mitchum, Jane Greer and William Bendix. A cops and robbers thriller, it was filmed in Mexico. It winds up with a spanking good chase scene, with cars careening over highways — it’s a pell-mell race with not just the traditional two cars, but with a third added to the excitement.
FEBRUARY 28
WASHINGTON HALL—A choral group from Studebaker will present a concert under the auspices of the Concert and Lecture Series program.
MARCH 2
COLFAX (through March 8)—A. few years ago Paramount made a picturization of Norman Krasna’s wonderful Broadway hit, Dear Ruth. Now the studio has brought together the same cast for a sequel, entitled Dear Wife (A-l). Ruth has married her soldier and her sister Miriam is still up to her old tricks. As is the case with most sequels, this one lacks the crackling spontaneity of the original. Nonetheless, it provides a goodly supply of chuckles. Edward Arnold, Billy deWolfe and Mona Freeman are particularly noteworthy.
MARCH 3
PALACE—Here’s the film that is being hailed as the best of the year: All the King's Men (B). It is from the Pulitzer Prize novel by Robert Penn Warren. The story of a demagogic politician, it is said to be a fictionalized biography of Huey Long. Broderick Crawford, a fine actor at long last rescued from trite B’s, gives an excellent performance in the leading role. Mercedes MacCambridge, John Ireland, John Derek and Joanne Dru are among the supporting players.
«)
Get Your
School Album (Tn nr in Blue and Gold
AULT CAMERA SHOP |lnc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
Corsages
FLOWERS for All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
Summer Courses UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 February 24, 1950 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI _________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS __________ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE  Features JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY _________ Assistant Sports
RICHARD CULLEN  Photography LEON GARDNER _______________  Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER  Advertising LOUIS P. LOURO _____________ Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY _______________ Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE  Circulation DALE FRANCIS _________ Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Clark, Jay Conlon, Ray Doherty, Dave Driscoll, Charley Duliea, Carl Eilberger, Bob Finney, Tom Kelley, Joe Lang, Dan McCarthy, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Jim O’Brien. George Otott, Jolin Quetsch, George Schwartz, Bill Shidaker, Don Smith, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Ted Prahinski, Frank Ronnenberg, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Once again the Lenten season of penance comes to an uneasy, unsteady world. Before the main altar of Sacred Heart Church a lone student keeps his vigil; an embodiment of the spirit of Holy Mother Church’s teaching that Lent should be the time in which man turns his thoughts to God and the ageless truths of Christianity.
—Photo by Kinville
9
From the Editor’s Desk..
After 83 Years
Reader Tom Kelleghan was right last week when he wrote that a great change has come over the Scholastic in its 83 years. He is also right when he says today’s mag is essentially informative. We’re not sure, however, to what degree the magazines of the last century were educative.
In the “palmy” days of the Scholastic, which Mr. Kelleghan applauds, the student body was very small — so small that there was really little need for a news organ. The magazine of those days could include just about everything: poems, essays, letters, even the reports of campus news. But such a thing is impossible (if desirable) today. About four-fifths of the Scholastic of 1950 is news, both general and sports. To include more than a minimum of features is impossible, due to the fact that this magazine is, and must remain, at least a weekly.
Since it is essentially a student magazine, only campus news and news directly influencing the student should be published. There are plenty of capable publications — Catholic and secular — which can handle the news of drugstores and their price wars. (Incidentally, it seems somewhat impossible that drugstores could have a “war” with cigarettes, since a state fair-trade law went into effect this summer. The minimum legal price is 19 cents.)
We believe the Scholastic is doing a good job, though it could be better. Student news is well-covered and well-presented, and we don’t believe pictures and lively write-ups make it shallow and superficial. Since it is also a magazine, we have made provision for fiction and intelligent essays. So far, we have had few manuscripts to choose from. Such articles as appear in the Review of Politics, the Midland Naturalist, the Juggler and Technical Review are not for us. Ours is a general news-magazine, and as such should make a general appeal to the student population.
On these facts, we heartily deny the charge that we “have fallen down on the job disgracefully.”
Memento Homo
The Lenten season began last Wednesday when the priest placed ashes on the foreheads of Catholics. These ashes are reminders to us. Thy tell us that we are dust and to dust we shall return.
This message is terrifying to those who really examine it. Our bodies will decay and rot when we die, and only our immortal souls will exist. The life of the soul then, is the important thing and Lent is a time to “shape up” soulwise.
The little acts of mortification we perform during this season all add up on the credit side of our account with God. We express our love of Christ crucified when we make sacrifices without complaints and arguments.
Lent is only three days old. There’s still time to begin our selfdenials or renew our promises and resolutions that already have been broken.
Feb. 24, 1950
7
4|
Hedy Lamarr in her famous role as Delilah from Cecil B. DeMille'sTechnicolor masterpiece, "Samson and Delilah"—a Paramount picture.
letifounownTASTTand THROAT he the judge/
There’s never a rough puff in u Lucky
4teatu Fing TMacw/
OB

iff &
HEDY LAMARR says: good cigarette is like a good movie—always enjoyable. That’s ivhy it’s Luckies for me”
You’re right, Hedy ... you can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—ripe, light, naturally mild tobacco that’s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!
CQfK., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Lucky Strike...so round, so firm, so fully packed-------------so free and easy on the draw
8
The Scholastic
VHS
The Notre Dame
Scholastic

VOLUME 91, NUMBER 16
FEBRUARY 24, 1950
Carnival Climaxes Pre-Lenten Activity
Hollywood Star Says ND Visit 'Beautiful'
Glamorous Ann Blyth climaxed festivities at the ND Mardi Gras Carnival Tuesday evening by making a personal appearance in the Navy Drill Hall while more than 5,000 bewitched, bothered, and bewildered spectators cheered and admired.
It will be some time before the Drill Hall has another guest as beautiful and gracious as Miss Blyth. Attired in a simple grey suit, wearing long gold earrings and her hair swept back, she stunned her wide-eyed audience with ® the sincerity in her sparkling blue eyes and tender smiles.
As Miss Blyth approached the Carnival entrance on foot she was accompanied by Rev. James H. McDonald, c.s.c., and Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, c.s.c., personal friends of the actress and arrangers of her visit to the campus. We asked her what she thought of ND. Smiling as she held the collar of her mink coat close to her neck she said, “It’s very beautiful. I’ve never been here before, but I know I would like to come back.”
When the famous star entered the Drill Hall she was greeted by a thunderous ovation by students and friends of ND who were atop every rigging, chair, and booth available above floor level. The lithe Miss Blyth posed for countless pictures and proceeded to visit the various booths on the carnival midway.
e „ On stage, Miss Blyth greeted the - crowd and received numerous tokens of esteem and appreciation from the student body including a dozen longstemmed roses, a gold brooch, and an ND monogrammed blanket. She joined the Glee Club in singing Too-Ra-Loo-Ra and When Irish Eyes Are Smiling. Then without accompaniment and with only two spotlights focused on her through the darkness, she sang The Man I Love.
Miss Blyth then answered questions
Feb. 24, 1950
by carnival chairman Ed Farrell before the stage mike. When asked about her plans for marriage, she replied, “Just like every girl, I think about it. But, right now there’s nothing definite in view.” Every male in the crowd breathed a sigh of relief and shouted their approval to this statement by the 21-year-old Irish beauty. “It pleases me that you came here to see me,” she (Continued on Page 16)
Flag Presentation Marks Washington Day Exercises
Following traditions of more than a century, 695 Seniors made the annual presentation of a large American flag to the University in Washington Hall last Wednesday. The ceremony, representing the dedication of the June, 1950, graduates to the threefold ideal of service “For God, country, and Notre Dame,” was part of the annual observance of Washington’s’ Birthday.
Thomas E. Sherer, of West Hartford, Conn., presided as chairman of the presentation. Sherer is a student in the College of Commerce and holds the highest scholastic average in the graduating class.
Delivering the principal address at the afternoon observance was Rodney R. Forbes, of the College of Arts and Letters. A native of Lincoln, Neb., Forbes was chosen as an outstanding speaker, student, and leader in extracurricular activities.
The actual presentation of the flag was made on behalf of the Seniors by class president John W. Thornton, of Van Wert, Ohio. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., executive vice-president, gave the acceptance speech on behalf of the University.
Again according to tradition, the new flag will not be flown immediately. It will be blessed at the Baccalaureate Mass in June and will replace last year’s flag during the commencement exercises.
Ann Blyth Entertains At Mardi Gras Finale
The appearance of Hollywood star Ann Blyth last Tuesday night climaxed the two-day Student Council-NFCCS Mardi Gras Carnival, held in the Navy-Drill Hall.
Arriving from Chicago, where she had performed the night before in a benefit for the Dominican Fathers, the actress entertained the throng of carnival-goers, sang with the Glee Club and visited each booth along the Drill Hall midway.
At 11:30 p.m. Miss Blyth decided the winner’ of the Buick Riviera. The winner was John Brady of Mobile, Alabama. His son, John D. Brady, 115 Zahm Hall, who sold the ticket was on hand to receive the keys from the Hollywood star. Someone reported that the Bradys would sell their present automobile — an older model Cadillac — to pay the tax on the two new ones.
Immediately before the car awards, the committee announced the ten students who sold the most donation books. John A. McLaughlin took the first prize, an autographed football, with a record of 30 books. Other high-ranking donation sellers included Leo Poldo Vigil, John Fitzgerald, Robert Stefhovich, James Moresco, James Clarke, Stephen Skundrich, Jim Sheerin, Jodie Stovinoka and Lawrence Leroy. Each of them received a Notre Dame blanket.
Because the 1950 Riviera was late in arriving from Detroit, a 1949 model was exhibited in its place. However, the winner still received the new model. Both the Buick and the 1950 Chevrolet were featured in a showroom setting near the entrance to the hall.
Over 820 chance books returned on Monday boosted the final net proceeds from the car award past the $11,000 mark. With the carnival profits, this will permit the donation of $10,000 to
(Continued on' Page 12)
9
Students to Debate Sterilization Topic
Sterilization of the mentally deficient will be the topic of a debate sponsored by the Student Law Association of Notre Dame Monday evening, Feb. 27, in the Law Auditorium. The question will be discussed in its relation to the Natural Law, and the resolution will be stated: Resolved: That a statute is contrary to the Natural Law ivhen it authorizes'the sterilization of the mentally deficient who are afflicted with hereditary forms of insanity.
The issue of sterilization has been magnified and brought to the attention of the world by the widespread practice of it in Germany by the German government during the past war, and currently in the United States it has further been intensified by the spread of crime since the war. Various psychologists and jurists have proposed the method as an effective curb upon the sex crimes and other atrocities perpetrated by a growing number of criminals in America.
Edward Coleman and Norman Kopec will uphold the resolution, while William McLaughlin and William Wom-bacher will oppose it. Rev. Thomas J-Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, Robert Sullivan, professor of law, and William Roemer, Sr., professor of philosophy, will serve as judges.
The purpose of the debate series is twofold. It is felt that by arguing such proposals the student will become acquainted with the Natural Law in application, and thereby the purpose of the annual Natural Law Institute at the university will be served; secondly, the student, by participation, will
Debaters Take Third In Eau Claire Tourney
The Notre Dame debate team, led by captain Bill Carey, captured third place at the sixth annual Eau Claire State Teachers College Speech Meet. The meet was held last Friday and Saturday in the college auditorium at Eau Claire, Wis. The Notre Dame team was defending their right to the sweepstake trophy for the third straight year against 85 opposing teams representing 38 different colleges. Had Notre Dame again been proclaimed champion they would have retained permanent possession of this trophy.
Although Notre Dame did not win the meet they did not return empty handed. Bill Carey unanimously won the trophy in the extemporaneous
10
develop a speaking ability that will be invaluable in his future practice of the law. The participant is not only materially benefited, but he is preparing himself morally for the responsibility of formulating the law of tomorrow.
Students, as well as the general public, are invited to attend the debate. It is the hope the sponsors of the It is the hope of the sponsors of the series that the audience, as well as the participants, will be aided in better understanding the force of the Natural Law when seen in concrete application to problems confronting the world today.
Aquinas Lecture Change
A late announcement from the sponsors of the Aquinas Lecture Series reports a change in location for the lectures because of the current coal shortage.
Lectures once scheduled for the Central High School auditorium and Notre Dame’s Drill Hall are now moved to the Progress club near the business district of South Bend at 601 West Colfax avenue.
For Notre Dame students it means that for the first time since the series began in 1942 there would be no lectures free to students. The season ticket can be bought for Notre Dame men for S2.50 for the six lectures.
Other information about the lecture series which begins Sunday night can be found on page 24.
speaking event over the other 25 entries. Carey also won a third place in discussion out of a field of 170 participants.
In debate, the Notre Dame team of Bill Dempsey and Bill Carey was ranked as the best speaking team for the third straight year. They received 55 out of a possible 60 points and won three out of four debates. Bradley University, winning all four of their debates, won the event although their team rating of 49 was lower than that of Notre Dame. In class B debate, a Notre Dame team consisting of Pete Ninneman and Joe Bellon won three out of four debates and came in second only to the University of Minnesota.
When the final score to deter-mine the winner of the sweepstake trophy was tabulated it found Eau Claire first with ten points, St. Catherine’s
second with eight, and Notre Dame third with six points.
Tonight the Irish talkers play host to an all-girl debate team from Our Lady College of Cincinnati. This debate starts at 7:30 in Washington Hall.
South Bend Choralers To Sing Here Tuesday
Next Tuesday evening, Feb. 28, the Concert and Lecture Series will present a concert by the Studebaker- Choral Group in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. The thirty-five member girls’ glee club will be under the direction of Ethel Stuart Gaumer, one of the most well-known conductors and teachers in the Indiana area.
The Choral Group which has a male counterpart for many of its concerts was organized in 1937 and has grown consistently in popularity over the years. This year the group is scheduled for fourteen concerts throughout the Michiana area.
On March 2, well-known soprano Catherine Russell will visit the Notre Dame campus for a concert of selected songs. Miss Russell is a niece of Father Edward Murray, c.s.c. On March 15 the ever-popular Julliard String Quartet will return to Notre Dame for a concert that promises the same excellence in performance which highlighted their first visit.
Earle Spiecer, a baritone, will present a concert on March 28, and Miss Anne Byrne whose first performance received such plaudits from ND music lovers, will return for a piano recital on March 31.
Discussion Group Will Hear Commerce and History Profs
Professor Wesley Bender of the College of Commerce will open the February History Discussion next Tuesday evening with a paper entitled “Business Disowns Clio.” The general discussion topic of the meeting will be “History and Business.”
Professor William Shanahan of the Department of History will continue the discussion with a paper on “History and the Self-Confidence of Businessmen.” Professor John Sheehan, ™ Head of the Department of Economics, will be Chairman. Discussion from the floor will follow presentation of the papers.
The History Discussions have for their purpose a study of the relationship between History and other-branches of University study. The February History Discussion will be held next Tuesday evening at 7:45 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building.
The Scholastic
Junior Class Sponsors Gala Mardi Gras Dance
Ray Yanics, Junior Class president, presents roses to Mardi Gras The Palais Royale was filled with over 500 couples at Riday queens: Misses Rosemary Stapleton and Dora Brooks Smoot, night's big Mardi Gras dance. Proceeds went to charity drive.
President Cites Good Will As Basis for World Peace
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, stated last o week that a working peace between Soviet Russia and the Western Powers can be effected only if both sides show and practice “abundant good will and the power to overcome our vices and prejudices.” Father Cavanaugh made this observation in an address Wed
nesday night at a meeting of the Great Books Foundation in New Trier High School in Chicago.
In his address, Father Cavanaugh stressed the necessity for society of good will. “If a choice had to be made between a society of intellectual geniuses who are defective in the exercise of the moral virtues, or a society of second-rate intellects, preeminently men of good will and possessed of the moral vii-tues, I think the wisdom of choosing the latter society is apparent. Mere insistence upon intellectual formation
as a panacea for the world’s ills will never, it seems to me, lead the peoples of the world into the promised land of world organization and peace.”
Father Cavanaugh emphasized that colleges and universities can do much towards “perfecting the moral virtues and by doing it strengthen themselves in their own main work of sharpening the thinking powers of their students.” He further pointed out that “men cannot be made morally good in the practical order at least without the aid of religion, which means the aid of God.”
Professors Let Off Steam at Bi-Monthly Hoe-Down
Dr. Russell Williams, of the Department of Chemistry, is the caller and instructor at these affairs for profs and wives.
Not to be outdone by ND's social-minded undergraduates, our profs hold bi-monthly barn dances in the Veterans' Rec Hall.
Feb. 24, 1950
11
South Bend's Venerable Oliver Theater Keeps Old Grandeur in New Motion Picture Era
By ROBERT ROMAKER
Every guy and gal at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s know where the theaters are in South Bend. There’s the Palace, the Granada, the State and the new Avon. Wandering off Michigan street, there’s the Colfax. These are the first run theaters.
But while most Notre Dame moviegoers wash along the main drags and flow into these theaters to eat popcorn, take a date, or kill time, there exists a theater where people go for the sole purpose of seeing the show.
This is South Bend’s different theater. A theater most Notre Dame men know little about. The theater is different in that it possesses a proud dignity that the blatant first run theaters lack. It is different in that it does not kow-tow to crass commercialism. It is different in that messy popcorn is not permitted inside.
No flashy marquees announce that Hopalong Cassidy and his horse are playing. No advertisements proclaim that Secret Service Investigator will thrill and chill you. Why? Because the Oliver theater has no marquee and pictures like Secret Service Investigator don’t play there.
The Oliver plays the best of the second run features. It skims off the top of Hollywood’s above average films, and occasionally revives an artistic masterpiece like Les Miserables.
Mr. James Frusheanes, manager of the Oliver theater, explains that the policy of his theater is to provide family entertainment at a price (30 cents) that the family can afford to pay.
The Oliver is a blend of the old and the new. It was built by James Oliver, the manufacturer, to provide the best in entertainment for the people of South Bend. The best operas and the best road shows played on its stage. Sara Bernhardt, May Robson, Ethyl Barrymore and Otis Skinner are among the stars who have appeared. But with the advent of motion pictures the Oliver reluctantly converted.
You’d imagine that this old building would still exhibit signs of its past grandeur. Such is the case. The mosaic pattern in the lobby floor, the crystal chandeliers, and the hand carving worth $100,000 on the side of the stage remind its patrons of another era.
Yet amidst all the trappings and embellishments you’ll be surprised to know that the sound system and seats are described by Mr. Frusheanes as “the best in the city.”
12
Last year he remodeled. New seats, new sound and new carpets were installed. The next time you go to a show in one of the first run theaters, just for the fun of it notice the seats you sit in. They were installed thirty years ago. The seats in the Oliver on the other hand were installed just a year ago. They’re scientifically designed to cushion the- “gluteus maximus” and restfully support the back.
“The finest feature of my theater is the sound,” Mr. Frusheanes proudly points out. He explains that when the theater was built Mr. Oliver spared no expense to import an engineer from Austria who designed a soundboard on the ceiling. As a result the sound is superbly clear and devoid of that metallic rasp. There is no bounceback or echo.
During the war an official of the American Broadcasting System stopped in at the theater to take in a show between trains. Afterwards he called on the manager to tell him that his little theater “has the best sound in the country.”
Yep fellows and gals, the Oliver is different. If you occupy one of the 700 seats in this little theater, chances are that you have a discriminating taste in movies, and that you want to relax in peaceful comfort, far from the crunching of popcorn and free from the cacophony of juvenile laughter.
Espenan's Condition 'Critical' After Fall
Raymond Espenan, varsity right end on last season’s football squad, is in critical condition in the Saint Joseph’s Hospital with a back injury received last Tuesday.
Espenan was demonstrating gymnastics at South Bend Central High School last Tuesday afternoon when he lost his grip on a trampoline and landed head-first on the floor. He first complained of a stiffness in his side, then became progressively paralyzed. He was taken to St. Joseph’s and examination revealed a dislocation of the fourth vertebrae of the neck and possible damage to the spinal cord. Since his confinement at the hospital, he has been almost completely paralyzed.
Latest reports on his condition list it as “quite critical.” The prayers of the student body are requested for his recovery. He is under the care of Dr. Sherman Egan, University physician.
Carnival
(Continued from Page 9)
Foreign Student Relief and a few thousand to establish the Notre Dame Charity Fund.	.
Although attendance the first night was fairly large, crowds packed the hall Tuesday evening.
Suspended from the ceiling was a huge, colorful banner welcoming all to " the carnival. This and many of the other signs were the work of Roy Strickfaden, a junior architecture student.
Ann Blyth was not the only performer to appear- on the Drill Hall stage. On both evenings, the Notre Dame tumbling team demonstrated its skill on the trampoline.
There were games of skill and chance, prizes of play money and food.
The dice and wheel games of the Syrian-Lebanese, Law, and Pittsburgh Clubs and the Commerce Forum awarded bogus money. The New Jersey Club offered cigarettes, the St. Louis men featured hams, and Vetville gave pastries on their wheels. Latecomers found the Vets’ booth closed, the supply of cakes depleted. A council of comic characters from Jersey also tried weight guessing as a sideline.
Other games of luck included two " versions of a ball-in-hole affair by the Toledo and Washington-Maryland-Virginia Clubs.
A sharp eye and accurate arm was needed to beat La Raza’s milk bottles, Washington’s balloons, Philadelphia’s two basketball hoops, and Dayton’s penny-throw.
The Cleveland Club featured live ducks in their version of ring-toss; the Detroit club featured live “doughnuts,” the object being to dunk the heckling clown into a vat of water by hitting a lever with a baseball.
A timely ring-toss satire on Brinks, Inc. was staged by the New Englanders, who were garbed in pea coats and Halloween masks.
It was Derby Day at the Chicago Club booth, where bets were placed on several jockeys astride chairs. A wheel determined their progress toward the finish line.
Meatball sandwiches were sold by the Italian Club, “coke” and popcorn by the North Dakota “Silver $ Club.”
In a secluded comer of the hall, the Rocky Mountain Club supervised dancing.
The two clubs producing the largest profits earned $50 and $25 rewards, while the booth judged most original received $50.
.	The Scholastic
Mask Ball Presents Odd Costume Array
St. Mary’s Social Hall was the scene of an unusual and somewhat confusing spectacle last Saturday night. The occasion was the annual Masquerade Ball and the theme for the evening was “Under the Big Top.” Sponsored by ® the St. Mary’s NFCCS chapter, the dance got under way at 8:30 and ran its three-hour course to the music of Gene Hull’s five-man combo.
Many of the costumes were clever and original. Prizes were awarded on the basis of originality, humor and appeal. The most original couple was Margaret Grignon and Bob Hoff, the latter being at’ired as a can of Miller’s “High Life” with his date in a “High Life Girl” costume. The award for the funniest duo went to Mary Caryl Cash and Joe Straub who were dressed as “two bugs in a rug.” Prizes for the prettiest and most handsome costumes went to Lory McCauley and Peter Green who were made up as an officer in the Spanish American army and a belle of the Gay ’90’s.
Among the honorable mentions of the evening were a Prisoner of Love, a Kansas Sunflower, a Dog Catcher, a nurse and her elderly patient, the devil and a witch, and two long paper Pall-Mall cigarettes.
The most realistic costume of the evening was a grotesque Frankenstein who caused many squeals and giggles from the female portion of the crowd. “Digger O’Dell,” of “Life of Riley” fame, was overheard to say to his corpse- for - the - evening concerning Frankenstein: “He looks like several people I’ve buried.” There was a large a minority of costumes from the era of
Jim McLaughlin and Miss Joan Fink got to dance as two kilt-wearing Highlanders
the 1920’s, with such touches of realism as plus fours, straw hats and white ducks on the men and low waistlines, beauty-spots, and cloche hats on the women.
Claire DeCrane was general chairman for the affair. Decorations included circus scenes on the walls. A Big Top atmosphere was amply provided by the odd assortment of costumes.
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
The following concerts will be presented in the Reading Room in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall at 12:30 p.m. during the week of Feb. 27 to March 4.
Monday, Feb. 27
Concerto in A Major.______Grieg
Symphony Espagnole _______Lalo
Tuesday, Feb. 28
Symphony Number Five.--------
................ Tchaikowsky
Gaite Parisienne_______Offenbach
Wednesday, March 1
Swan Lake Ballet Suite.------
................ Tchaikowsky
Selections from Madame Butterfly .............  Puccini
Thursday, March 2
Concerto in F__________Gershwin
Roumanian Rhapsodies....Enesco
Friday, March 3
Les Sylphides	Chopin
El Amor Bru jo	DeFalla
Saturday, March 4, at 1 p. m.
The Reading Room will be open for the radio broadcast of the Metropolitan Opera. Opera of the week: Khovanchina, by Moussour-sky.
Cleveland Club to Meet
There will be a brief business meeting of the Cleveland Club on March 1, 7:15 p.m. in Room 4 of the Law Building. The agenda will include the appointment of an Executive Council, selection of Hall Representatives, presentation of plans for a Lenten Communion breakfast, and a report on the results of the Club’s booth at the Mardi Gras. All members are urged to attend.
Notre Dame's Frankenstein lunges for some refreshments at St. Six couples decked themselves out as pre-kindergarten rascals Mary's masque ball. The dance was held last Saturday night, with letters on their backs that spelled Cheaper by the Dozen.
13
Feb. 24, 1950
A seamstress turns ND collars at the largest institutional laundry in the country.
Every
Institute of Laundry both as supervisor of the Joliet branch, and as field secretary of the national institute. During the latex- period he had the opportunity of traveling extensively around the country and studying the industry from all its angles. Mi-. Hoar accepted the managership of the Notre Dame laundry in 1936.
The campus laundry handles an unbelievable turnover: more than 90,000 shirts, socks, handkerchiefs, undergarments, and other student items each week. But that is only part of it. Consider also the bedding supplies from the fourteen residence halls, the infirmary, Moreau Seminary, and Du-jarie Hall, and the various community houses. That adds up to about 4,400 beds. Then of course, there is also work taken in from the dining hall and the athletic association; and in addition there are the linens used daily on the 136 campus altars to be laundered. Try to figure how a laundry employing 85 on a 44-hour week can pick up, clean, and return these hundreds of thousands of pieces every week, and you are facing the same £ problem that Mr. Hoai- has been up against for 14 years.
To most students, St. Michael’s ' Laundry is little more than the butt of all “torn shirt” jokes, and is referred to more than often as “the home of the holy sock.” But fox- Gerald J. Hoar, the manager, and his 85 employees, the laundry is a very serious business, and, as Mr. Hoax- says, “Take
the laundry away, and the student body will begixx taking it seriously, too.”
Mr. Hoax- was graduated from the University of Notre Dame iix 1921. Ixx his student days he was personal secretary to Kxxute Rockne and a three-year member- of the track team. He has beexx connected with the American
“With 3,200 students sending laundry every week plus more fronx the other campus activities, we find it necessary to set up a tight schedule every week, and we caxx’t lose an hour. Yet, with holidays and all the othex-difficulties that come up it is physically impossible to hold oux- schedule. In
A pajama presser is a much-used piece of machinery in Notre Dame's "washing tub." St. Michael's was established in 1936.
Several of the 85 employees put the campus wash into two of the smooth-running plant's five huge stainless metal washers.
The Scholastic
14
ek: Bundles for 3,200 People
extracted, ironed, or dried, folded, as-other words, we are operating well over our capacity.”
Mr. Hoar is well justified in making such a statement, for St. Michael’s ranks in volume in the upper ten percent of United States laundries, and with the exception of the comparative easiness in collecting the laundry — since the bundles are all deposited at the same place in each hall — there is no real difference between St. Michael’s and any other laundry.
Yet Notre Dame has a unique setup in that every September there are some 1,000 new customers, and about 300 every February. Of course, that means that more than 300,000 pieces must be carefully marked for identification. It is especially important that care be taken with the marking, for once an article is mismarked it is sure to cause difficulty to both student and laundry as long as it stays at Notre Dame.
According to Mr. Hoar, there is probably not a larger institutional laundry in the United States. Most of the others do flat work only; while at Notre Dame “convenience” is the byword for Mr. Hoar and his staff. Many of the delicate sport shirts that require special care are done by hand with no extra charge for the student, while upwards of thirty cents for each shirt is charged at any commercial laundry. Even though the campus laundry does get progressively behind in its work, it is a “finished” laundry, that is one that returns the work completely
cially in delay, are due to the care-done with no wet wash, etc.
Mr. Hoar explains that the presently used process has proven to be the best for both students and laundry. “We find that starting the laundry pickups on Wednesday, the middle of the week, eliminates the weekend rush which, in our case during the full season, is impossible to handle satisfactorily.
“Trucks bring the soiled laundry to the receiving room, hall by hall, and it is kept in that order through the complete processing and checking out. The bundles are untied one by one and taken to the breaking room (there is not more than one bundle on the table at a time) where each piece is counted and listed. The form used on this list is printed to fit our particular needs and is made in triplicate.
After listing, the bundle with the bag is passed on to the markers where each piece is marked permanently with the student’s laundry number. The marker also sorts the bundle, dividing it into its several classifications for washing.
“Usually 10-5 student bundles constitute one lot. We have found that our washroom can handle this amount most conveniently. Separations of fugitives, colored and white, silks, woolens, and synthetic fabrics are made by oui- head washman who is familiar with all kinds of washable clothing.
“From the time a bundle is broken, counted, listed, marked, separated, classified, or sorted, loaded, washed, pulled,
By JACK WARD
sorted, checked, and wrapped ready for delivery to our central distributing office at Badin Hall, approximately five hours’ time is consumed. Of course, after the first lot is completed, one of these lots is completed every hour and thirty minutes until all lots, numbering about 30 for the week, are checked out.”
Although there is a proposed new laundry building, the present one is constantly tending towards the most modern and scientific processes. There are contained in St. Michael’s five 42’ by ' 36’ stainless metal washers, and one pony washer for silks and woolens. There is one 28-inch and three 48-inch extractors, two small and one large tumblers, two handkerchief ironers, one complete American system shirt finishing unit (which handles 8,000 shirts per week), six sets of garment presses, two complete sets of sock forms, one collar press for starched collars, four sock darning machines, and one compressor for operating all air controlled presses.
Concerning the problem of the “torn shirt,” Mr. Hoar cites that a very slight percentage of students express their dissatisfaction with the laundry’s service. As a matter of fact there is no more a percentage of complaints at Notre Dame than at any commercial laundry. Many of the complaints, espe-
A finished shirt is taken off the complete American system Wool socks are given particular care on the sock stretchers, shirt unit which handles an average of 8,000 shirts per week. The washing plant also contains four sock darning machines.
Feb. 24, 1950
15
lessness of students, such as putting a shirt in the wrong laundry bag, or using someone else’s bag, or, in more extreme cases, forgetting to throw the bag down the chute. And of course, St. Michael’s usually takes the blame for it all.
The dry cleaning department of the laundry is entirely for the convenience of the student body. While the best
Gerald J. Hoar
dry cleaning equipment available is used, the prices are lower than those of most establishments, and the school is not making money out of the concession. From 1936 to 1949 there were no increases in prices, and the recent changes were deemed necessary only because of the increase in the cost of labor.
“We’re not operating to make money,” says Mr. Hoar. “The laundry is essentially a convenience for the student body, and we think of the laundry not on a commercial basis, but a family basis. We are dealing with a swell group of boys, and always make it a point to handle their clothes as if they were our own.”
Students, Faculty, Workers Dispensed From Lenten Fast
Dispensation from the Lenten fast has been granted to students, faculty and employees of Notre Dame by the Most Reverend Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne. The dispensation extends to all days of Lent with the exception of Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, and the forenoon of Holy Saturday. On the:e latter days, total abstinence must be kept.
Those included under the dispensation are the members of the faculty and
their families who live on the campus or at least have their meals there; the student body; Religious assigned to the University or to a Religious house; employees and their families who are resident on the campus or eat their meals there; Sisters working in any capacity at Notre Dame; and workers on the Notre Dame farm.
This dispensation, which is local and not personal, does not hold good if students oi- members of the faculty or employees eat in the city or off the campus anywhere.
Ann Blyth (Continued from Page 9) said. Miss Blyth could only be half as pleased as those assembled to see her.
She decided to whom the car should be awarded and presented the lucky student winner with the keys to the new Chevrolet convertible.
Before coming to the carnival, Miss Blyth attended the solemn closing of
STILL ON SALE . . .
JUGGLER
FINAL CLEARANCE
OF ALL
Suits, Topcoats, Sport Coats
CHOICE OF 1 %
THE HOUSE J U 3 DISCOUNT
More than 100 Adler Rochester coats, gabardines, coverts, imported shetlands, hand loomed tweeds, cassimeres, etc. All sizes from which to make your selection.
Suits in all sizes and materials. 25% discount on all tailored suits from $65.00 to $125.00 OPEN MONDAY EVENING UNTIL 8:30 PARKER - WINTERROWD. Inc. 115%-117}/2 N. MAIN ST. (Upstairs)—South Bend CLOTHIERS	TAILORS
Use Your Charge Account
The Scholastic
Forty Hours devotions in Sacred Heart Church and was impressed greatly. She ate dinner at the Student Infirmary with Fathers McDonald and Mendez and the Sisters. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, welcomed the film star and accompanied her on a visit to the Grotto. Miss Blyth stayed overnight in the Infirmary and left Wednesday for Chicago on her way to Dallas, Texas, for the premiere of one of her company’s movies.
A delightful person to talk to as well as look at, Miss Blyth spoke about the ND football team. “They are the best and I’m for them 100%. Is there any other team to be for?”
As she was entering the car before she left the carnival we asked Miss Blyth for a few personal words to the ND students. Without hesitation she replied, “You have all been just wonderful. I am too thrilled to say anything but thank you, from the bottom of my heart.”—J. H. J.
16
Scholastic Sports
Hoopsters to Make Two-Game Eastern Journey
Hoosier Cindermen Meet ND Tomorrow To Close Local Indoor Dual Meet Season
। Indiana will help Notre Dame close out its indoor track dual meet season tomorrow afternoon in the fieldhouse.
I The Irish have won both their dual J meets so far this year and a victory tomorrow would give them an unde; feated indoor dual season.
[	- Coach Gordon Fisher of Indiana has
I an aggregation that was practically untouched by graduation and was well bolstered with sophs this year. Last
1 May his squad took second to Notre Dame in the Indiana Big State Cham-
i	pionships. That Irish team lost 13
।	lettermen to the Alumni Association,
but sophomore replacements have । looked good so far this season.
! First event is the shot put at one ■ o’clock and the fans who are in their seats then will see a real battle. Ini diana’s Jim Robertson and Clifton Anderson are both in the 52 feet class , with marks that are just a few inches lower than Notre Dame’s Johnny Hel-
|	wig’s. When men are	as	closely
|	matched as these three,	a	few	inches
|	difference in past form	means	little,
।	if anything.
I The Hoosiers are also loaded in the '	60-yard dash. Charley Peters has
taken the Big Ten outdoor 100 and 220-yard dash titles for the past two
years and was 60-yard indoor champion in 1948. Windy Feeney and Bob O’Brien back up Peters.
The Bloomington school has long been known for its fine distance runners and Frank Owens and Dave DeWitte are carrying on the tradition. Owens did 4:15 last season in the Big Ten outdoor- mile championship race as he took second to Wisconsin’s Don Gehrmann. Besides that, he’s done a 1:57 half mile. DeWitte has done the two-mile in the 9:30’s several times during the past four years.
Ron Minzey, the Hoosier’s broad jumper, is a South Bend boy and he quite naturally will try to show the home town folks a thing or two. Notre Dame’s John Worthington has been improving tremendously this season and now has his sights set on the school mark of 23’7%”. Sorely missed will be Ray Espenan who, at this writing, is in critical condition in St. Joseph’s Hospital as the result of a fall from a trampouline.
Irish pole vaulter Jim Miller will finally get a little competition. Ed Brown, Indiana sophomore, was doing 13 feet two years ago in high school and should be as good or better now.
Krausemen to Take on Navy and NYU Fives
By JACK ECONOMOU
Notre Dame’s hoopsters, currently playing second fiddle to the Indiana High School tournament, will conduct a quick two-game tour through the East over the weekend. The Irish will unveil their cage abilities to an Annapolis crowd for the first time in the tussle with Navy tomorrow night, and then will journey to New York for the annual Madison Square Garden classic with NYU on Monday night.
While their gridiron brethren continue to dream of successes over the South Benders, the Middie eagers, coached by Ben Carnevale, will try to turn thought into reality. In their first sixteen engagements of the season the future admirals copped eleven victories including a 53-50 triumph over Southern Methodist in the annual Cotton Bowl Classic. Navy reached the finals in that tournament before dropping a 54-46 decision to St. Louis University.	'
For the second straight year the Middie attack will be centered around Junior Bill Wilson, the 6’2” center who hit for 240 markers last season and is again- leading his teammates with 180 points. Guard and Captain Dave Mullaney, who has tallied 170 points, will
Joel Kaufman, NYU 9 Feb. 24, 1950
Joe Bray, Navy
Bill Wilson, Navy
17
be the other guard. John Stinson rounds out the top trio with 123 points.
Last year in the inaugural game of the series, Navy dropped a 70-62 decision to Notre Danie in the Chicago Stadium. Tomorrow night the Irish, playing before a highly partisan crowd in the unknown expanses of Dahlgren Hall on the Annapolis campus, will be at a decided disadvantage.
Up in New York, Coach Howard Cann’s 27th season is turning out to be one of his toughest. Struggling along at a mediocre 6-8 clip, the Violets are making wearied attempts to finally repel the yearly invader from Indiana. In their 16 invasions of the Garden, the men from Hoosierland have copped 13 wins, one of them snapping a 19-game Palisader win streak. Last year, Notre Dame took a 71-66 bitterly contested victory.
Joel Kaufman, 6’4” forward, the only holdover from the NYU great quintets of yesteryear, is again pacing the Violet attack. The huge senior has tapped in 155 points and is competently supported by Abe Becker, another huge forward, who has accounted for 140 markers. The Irish’s main trouble, however, will be the 6’6” sophomore center Mel Seaman. The 19-year-old was an unknown aspirant at the season’s outset but, under the tutelage of Coach Cann, has developed into a fine ball player and a regular starter. This game will mark the fourth and final Garden appearance of Kevin O’Shea and John Foley. Both men have always been at their best in the Garden’s friendly atmosphere and, spurred on by the ever present subway alumni, have turned in enviable performances in the “big town.” While the encounter will mark the farewell of these seasoned performers, it will also be the Garden debut of the Irish’s three starting
sophs — Leroy Leslie, Don Strasser and John Neumayr. Met cage fans will see more of this trio in future games.
The Krausemen, repelled by an upstart Canisius squad, 53-50, in an earlier eastern swing, will strive to gain revenge at the hands of Navy and NYU. Upon returning from the Atlantic seaboard, the eagers will curtain the 1949-1950 season with a trip to Marquette.
Cagers Dump Loyola; Lose to DePaul Five
By FRANK RONNENBERG
The in-again, out-again club representing Notre Dame basketball was at it again last week. They played true to form in dumping Loyola, 67-60, at the Notre Dame fieldhouse and then folding before a hot DePaul quintet, 68-58, at the Chicago Stadium last Saturday night.
Loyola, already beaten by the Irish this season at Chicago, presented a vastly improved team and the outcome of the game was in doubt until the last minutes. Loyola broke fast and then, after falling behind, came back to take a 27-25 halftime lead. The first half was characterized by Notre Dame’s typical hot streak and big lead followed by horrible ball handling, poor shooting, and finally no lead. The Ramblers continued to pour it on and midway in the final half they still held a four-point lead.
However, Kevin O’Shea began to hit again and three quick baskets by the Notre Dame guard rocketed the Irish into the lead. They never lost the lead aftei- that and, sparked by Bob Wray and Leroy Leslie, they won going away.
(Continued on Page 22)
Novelty Swim Meet Draws Big Turnout
Swimming interest is definitely on the upswing at Notre Dame if the recent turnout for the novelty relay meet is any criterion. So many halls floated teams that Gil Burdick, manager of the meet, was forced to swim two heats in double elimination fashion " to scale down the number of halls in each event for the finals which will be held Wednesday evening, March 1.
The novelty relay meet is just what the name implies. The sweat shirt relay, the inner tube relay and the ping pong relay (the latter done with ball on spoon and spoon in mouth) are three of the more popular relays which comprise the meet agenda. While the . swimmers are dead serious in their 9 ' efforts to bring their respective halls the team crown, their frustrated antics in trying to recover that pesky pingpong ball or re-seat themselves in a slippery inner tube often prove hilarious to the spectators of the splash party.
The freshman reign over the meet appears to be drawing to a close as Cavanaugh and Howard each qualified their teams in seven of the eight events. Zahm, however, failed to be impressed £ as last year’s champs, along with ' Lyons, qualified themselves in six events. Scoring in the finals will range from 12 points for first in each event . to two points for the sixth place finishers.
For campus Johnny Weissmullers a regular swimming meet has been arranged which will contain all the swimming and diving events of a collegiate meet. Further plans will be announced regarding this meet.	'
—Jack Keane
Interhallers assume giant task of entering inner tubes during event in novelty swimming meet held last week in Rockne Memorial.
18	The Scholastic
Irish Keglers Finish Fourth In Five-Team MIBC Meet
The Notre Dame pinsplitters journeyed to Valparaiso, to participate in the second annual Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference Invitational Tournament, last Sunday. Four universities and one college were represented in the tournament held at the Inman’s Recreation Center in Valparaiso. DePaul, Valparaiso, Loyola, Concordia State Teachers’ College, and Notre Dame composed the big five.
Positions were drawn, pictures were taken amid optimistic remarks from a.ll teams concerning the outcome of Cue tournament, and high praise was i given the officers of the M.LB.C. for the complete and thorough job of _ preparation which was instrumental in w the success of the tournament. Mr.
Carl Henrich, Director of Athletics at Valparaiso, officially opened the tournament with a few words of welcome to all the teams.
The tournament got away to a flying start, and throughout the entire match there was an atmosphere of good spirit, fun, and friendly, active competition. At the end of the first round the Irish pinsplitters were firmly entrenched in second position behind DePaul’s big five paced by the flashing exhibition of Tom Sitko who turned in a grand total of 563 for the first three games with a 222 high among his three.
For awhile it looked as if the Irish would beat the jinx that dogged them at last year’s tournament but when the pins were cleared away and the final standings were put up, the ND five was in fourth position behind DePaul, Valparaiso, and Loyola respectively.
@ -----------------------
Fencers Still Undefeated As lllini Fall to ND Blades
Melton’s Musketeers ran their season’s undefeated string to five straight as they downed the lllini at Champaign last Saturday by an 18-9 count. The 800 spectators saw Notre Dame dominate in all weapons. Led by Bob Schlosser, the Irish took the sabre and epee, 5-4, and the foil, 8-1.
Besides Schlosser, Don Parisi, Bob Westrick, Jim Walsh, and John Vincent went undefeated.
STATISTICS FOR 20 GAMES
	FG	FT	T	AVG.
O’Shea 		.... 112	82	306	15.3
Leslie 		.... 95	55	245	12.3
Bagley 		.... 72	51	195	10.3
Strasser 		.... 74	36	184	9.2
Foley 		.... 48	34	130	6.5
Neumayr ....	.... 32	12	76	4.8
9 Feb. 24, 1950
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by flack Meaney «
On the Banquet Circuit
Frank Leahy is at it again. The Irish coach, on a speaking tour through the Southeast, saw a not too bright season ahead for his green-clad charges. We’ll agree with Coach Leahy to some extent. Another team like last year’s is asking for the impossible.
Speaking before a Charlotte, N. C., audience, Leahy revealed that he has been troubled by spinal arthritis, an ailment that cuts down his efficiency towards the end of the season. “It is my fault that Notre Dame teams have often finished the season with poor performances. It was true against Great Lakes in 1943, against Southern California last year, and to a lesser extent against Southern Methodist this year. I simply have not been able to get the team ‘up’ for the games, and I made mistakes that I would not make earlier in the season.”
Tarheel supporters were quick to note the fact that North Carolina will catch Notre Dame in September ■when Leahy is fresh.
Number One?
After watching Notre Dame knock off Loyola in the barn last week, we’re inclined to agree with certain statements made by Rambler coach Tom Haggerty recently with regard to the prowess of the Holy Cross basketball team, ranked number one nationally by the Associated Press. Coach Haggerty charged that the Crusaders aren’t the best in the country by a long shot, said that they should be ranked 15th or 20th.
We won’t say where the Crusaders do belong in the national rankings but on the basis of their play against Loyola, and having seen Loyola ourselves, we don’t think Holy Cross belongs at the top either.
The Crusaders dumped Loyola by five points, 53-48, in a game that wasn’t decided until the final minutes and after four of Loyola’s starting five had fouled out. Crusader coach Buster Sheary termed Loyola as the toughest team the boys from Mt. St. James had faced all season. “Boy, am I glad we don’t have to play them again,” breathed Sheary in relief. “Those babies were tough.”


If Notre Dame, playing as erratically as they did against the Ramblers, can still beat those “tough babies” by seven points, what can be said for Holy Cross?
Maybe Holy Cross is the best team in the country but if they are, they’ll have to prove it by meeting and beating the larger schools instead of drubbing small New England colleges by lopsided scores. In all probability, Holy Cross will get the NCAA District One nomination for next month’s tournament. Then the Crusaders will have a chance to show they deserve their top ranking.
Time Out
Add Michigan State to the list of collegiate nines making a southern junket. The Spartans, with the exception of a three-year period during the war, have been touring the Southland every year since 1926. . . . Ernie McCullough, former Irish track captain, suffered a sprained ankle while representing Canada in the downhill run event of the world ski championships held last week at Aspen, Colorado. . . . Gene Biitner has been elected to lead the Irish tennis team for 1950.
Interhall Hoop Tournament To Open for 26 Quintets
Interhall basketball swings into its last round of competition with the coming interhall tournament scheduled for Monday, Feb. 27. At the latest count, 26 teams will vie for the interhall crown.
Teams will not be matched with any of their regular season opponents but rather with teams of a different league. The tourney will be run on a single elimination basis.
Mr. Szekely has expressed hope that the quarter-finals may be played on the varsity court on which the green light has already been given to the semi-finals and finals.
For further information as to time, schedule and other details of the tourney, interested parties are requested to watch the bulletin board in the locker room at the Rock.
19
Irish Squads Win at Home
ABOVE: Jim Miller clears the bar at 12'9" to take first place in his specialty during meet with Purdue held last Saturday. Irish tracksters downed the Boilermakers, 64-49, for their second straight triumph. LEFT: An unidentified Irishman battles two Loyola defenders for rebound during last week's game. Looking on are the Ramblers' Ed Dawson (16) and Notre Dame's Hughes Wilcox. Irish downed Loyola, 67-60, for second time this year. The best high-ranking Holy Cross could do against the Chicago team was 53-48 win in the Boston Garden.
Irish Track Team Continues Winning Ways; Meet Records Set in Victory Over Purdue
The Notre Dame trackmen made it two wins in a row last Saturday as they dumped Purdue, 64-49. The Irish just about iced the meet by picking up eight out of 12 first places. Six meet records were set and one was tied during the afternoon.
In the meet record class for ND were half miler Jerry Johnson, broad jumper John Worthington, shot putter John Helwig and Bill Fleming in the low hurdles while Purdue’s Frank Harder and Ed Rice did the same in the quarter mile and the high jump respectively. Harold Omer of Purdue also tied the 60-yard dash record as he edged Irish captain Bob Smith for first.
High point man for Notre Dame was Leo McKillip, the hurdling halfback, who has been running in Bill Fleming’s shadow for the past two years. Leo demonstrated his competence by taking first in the high hurdles with a time that was only three-tenths of a second off Fleming’s school mark, and third in the lows. Fleming himself won the lows, but didn’t try the highs because of strained leg muscles.
Stocky Jerry Johnson, industrial engineering senior from Jacksonville, Fla., took the half mile for the second straight week by outkicking Purdue’s Bob Sheaffer and Notre Dame soph John Mohar. His time was 1:57.8.
20
John Worthington, Notre Dame junior, pushed his best broad jumping mark up to 23’4” to take the event from teammate Ray Espenan. Johnny Helwig too got into the meet record picture with a shot put flip that was just a quarter of an inch below 53 feet. Bob Toneff was second.
The longer races added a few points to the Irish pile, too. Sophs Benny Almaguer and Bob Fieler took one-two in the two-mile run while Jim Kittell came in first in the mile and Con Tetrault just edged Lou Lepry for third.
Final Irish winner was Jim Miller in the pole vault. Jim cleared 12’9” and then tried for the meet record at 13’4%” but the pressure contributed by the spotlight was a little bit too much for him to overcome. Tom Devine also picked up three points with his high jump second.
Boilermakers Frank Harder and Ronny Meyer gave the Irish quartermilers a lesson in brainy running. While Harder was building up a big lead to win in 49.7 seconds, Meyer stayed back and held off Notre Dame’s two men, Bob Boyne and Vai Muscato, who were third and fourth respectively.
These two Purdue quarter-milers also gave their team something to be proud of in the mile relay. Notre Dame’s second leg man, Bob Boyne,
took the stick from lead-off man Bob Smith even with Purdue’s second leg man and built up a seemingly insurmountable lead. However, Meyer and Harder, running the third and fourth legs for Purdue, galloped around the track in terrific time to win for their school. This showed how unfair comparisons can be. Boyne and Jim Bollas, the Irish second and third men, ran approximately equal times for their legs but Boyne running against Purdue’s weakest man, got cheers from the crowd for his performance, while Bollas, running against their strongest man, drew some unkind remarks when gr, he lost the lead.—Ted Prahinski "
Ben Almaguer coasts home in 2-mile run.
The Scholastic
Hurdler Bill Fleming Draws Crowd's Cheers While Smashing Records on Cinder Paths
By RUDY UNGER
Last Saturday afternoon tall, bespectacled Bill Fleming glided over the 60-yard low hurdles course for a new Notre Dame-Purdue Meet record, 6.9 seconds. As Fleming went over the hurdles, the crowd could be heard shouting a unified “Come on Bill!” After the race was over, one could hear floating about comments such as “Wow! 6.9 and he was just cruising,” and, “Hey, Moe, how about that? A new meet record, and with an injured leg!”	’
This Providence, Rhode Island boy is a stellar athlete and a crowd pleaser. But what makes him so? Why is he one of America’s finest hurdlers? What makes him different from the numerous other hurdle skimmers? It goes much further than the fact that Fleming has much natural ability. There are others with equal ability and the necessary physical equipment. In a sense, the difference lies “in the state of mind,” in this case the mind belongs to Fleming.
Back in Providence, Bill attended LaSalle Academy, a school of renown for track, and as Bill put it “a Notre Dame on the high school level.” It’s a big school, all boys, and theii- athletic competitive spirit is somewhere up in the ultra status.
Fleming wanted to join an athletic squad; he didn’t particularly care what it was, but he wished to play sports. He tried football, but by the time he got to the equipment desk the “Sold out” shingle was up. Next, came a shot at basketball and he was cut. Undismayed, Bill tried track, but he happened to turn out when cross-country was in season, and as he didn’t care to see the country, he quit. One day he noticed some buddies of his at hurdling practice, so he sauntered over and took a crack at it. He was good, so good that LaSalle’s track mentor, Dan O’Grady, wanted him to join the squad — as a high jumper!
Bill liked hurdling, but O’Grady was coach. His hunch was right, for Bill upped LaSalle’s high jump record to six feet. Shortly after, Bill got his break. An injury had placed the squad’s regular hurdler out of commission for the season and Bill was all for taking his place. The coach said, “You’re too slow, Bill,” so Bill, in four months time, cut down his 120 yard high hurdles speed from 16.8 to 15.2 which was good enough to set the Rhode Island state record!
Nevertheless, when Bill hit Inter
collegiate competition as a Notre Dame frosh, O’Grady’s claim still held; 15.2 as Bill found out, was piker’s time in the big leagues.
Here’s where Notre Dame’s track coach “Doc” Handy stepped in and helped Bill solve his problem. “Doc” put Bill through a gruelling sprinting program that developed Bill’s speed and set him on the road to fame, for his hurdling technique was already perfect.
Bill became the Eighth Army’s track coach when he joined the armed forces and while in Tokyo in 1947, he won the Pacific Inter-Command 120 high hurdles and 220 low hurdles titles.
1948 brought the resumption of Fleming’s collegiate career and the long tedious process of ironing out the G.I. kinks. On the first day of 1950 Fleming had the greatest day of his career. On that day Fleming skimmed the Sugar Bowl tourney’s 120-yard high hurdles in the clock-shattering time of 13.9 seconds, beating the great Olympic hurdler Craig Dixon and eclipsing the standing Sugar Bowl record of 14.3 as well as lowering the Southern record of 14.1.
That day in the Mardi Gras City was memorable for Bill for many reasons: It was the first race of the season, it was the first time he ever cracked 14 seconds flat and above all, it
Bill Fleming, Notre Dame's ace hurdler, relaxes in room with sociology textbook.
was the day he conquered Craig Dixon.
Going into the Sugar Bowl, Dixon was NCAA and AAU hurdles champ. It was Fleming’s first serious shot at the UCLA flyer. Twice on the coast Dixon had beaten Fleming. The first time Bill hit a hurdle and lost his stride and the second time he got off to a bad start. Undaunted, Fleming saw Dixon after the races and asked him for pointers. He asked a group of friendly critics, which he made a habit of always having on hand, to point out his mistakes. Then he went aside and analyzed his faults and sought their solution.
Then came the Sugar Bowl and Fleming got the chance he dreamed he’d never have, another shot at Dixon. This time Bill was ready and he accomplished what he set out to do — best the finest collegiate hurdler in the nation. He did it because in his way of thinking, “The man who wins is the man who thinks he can.”
Bill intends to go right on winning and setting records, and the reason why he will is told in the .lines of a poem which Bill has hung over his desk. It goes like this: “If you think you are beaten, you are. ... If you think you’ll lose, you’ve lost. . . . Success begins with a fellow’s will, it’s all in the state of mind. If you think you’re outclassed, you are. You’ve got to think high to rise. . . . Life’s battles don’t always go to the stronger or faster man: but soon or late the man who wins is the man. who thinks he can.”
Feb. 24, 1950
21
Smith, Roblez Hope To Keep Bengal Titles
Challengers seeking to take Ed Smith”s 157-pound title away from him during the Bengal Bouts at the end of March have no small job cut out for themselves. And if the intensity of the practice sessions is any indication, Vic Roblez is going to find Joe Brown a much tougher opponent to contend with this year.
Smith does not have to worry about sweating off excess pounds by numerous trips around the lakes. He spent the fall working with Coach Frank Leahy’s lads on Cartier field — one of the country’s better conditioning schools.
Probably the most popular champion from last year’s tourney, Smith made his title bid an impressive one. A TKO over Jack Mahoney in 1:17 of the third
Joe Brown, left, works out for Bengals.
round gave a hint of the type of leather he would throw during the following evenings. He sent Dan Finn to the canvas for a nine count in the third round of their semi-finals tilt to take a unanimous decision.
Dick Hyland gave Ed some stiff competition in the finals, but Smith had a faster and harder right as he slugged out a decision over Hyland and captured the 157-pound title. It will take an equally fast and hard right to dethrone him in this year’s tourney.
Joe Brown only made one official appearance in the 1949 bouts. He and Vic Roblez were the only contenders in the 147-pound class, and the rattlesnake right of Roblez plus Vic’s ring savvy cut through Brown’s defense. Roblez scored a TKO over Brown midway in the second round over the protests of Brown who wanted to continue the fight.
22
Brown has had a year to plot his attack on the crown Roblez wTon so easily last year and competition in that weight class is guaranteed to be tougher and closer this year.
Student tickets for the 19th Annual Bengal Bouts will go on sale in the Huddle, the Dining Hall, and the Athletic Office, Breen-Phillips Hall on March 13. Special student prices will be 25 cents for each of the first three nights and 50 cents for the semi-finals and finals bouts. A student reserved section will be set aside again this year. Seats in this sestion will cost §1.50 and guarantee the student the same seat for all five nights of boxing. These seats are the track bleachers used during basketball games and only 990 are available on a first come first served basis.
General public tickets will go on sale at South Bend locations at the same time. These tickets will sell for 50 cents for each of the first three nights and §1.00 for the semi-finals and finals. Some general public reserved seats will be available for 75 cents and §1.50. Ringside seats will be priced at §1.00 and §2.00.
Basketball
(Continued from Page 18)
Loyola actually presented a very poor basketball club, but center Ed Dawson was able to shake himself loose for 28 points. Dawson undoubtedly kept the Ramblers in the ball game with his shooting and rebounding. It is significant that when he tired late in the evening Loyola collapsed. Leroy Leslie was high scorer for the Irish with 20 points, followed by O’Shea with 12. It was O’Shea’s night however, as he broke the all-time Notre Dame scoring record for three varsity seasons and set himself well on the way to setting a new single season scoring mark. Don Strasser and Dan Bagley were up to par with some fine rebounding and John Foley sank several wicked hook shots. Long John, however, was as ineffectual as ever with his rebounding.
What happened to the Irish when they tackled DePaul at the Chicago Stadium shouldn’t happen to any team. DePaul was hot, so hot in fact that they wound up the evening with a .426 shooting percentage.
Lahey, who played very poorly when the Blue Demons visited Notre Dame earlier in the season hit for 18 points. Bato Govedarica, a 5’11” guard, who rushed into the center spot when Clem Pavilonis was injured, jammed 17 points through the hoop and Sam. Vukovitch, who couldn’t hit the side of his hat in the Fieldhouse, didn’t .miss at the Stadium.
After jumping off to an early but w slim lead, the Irish fell behind and trailed at the half 39-34. The Demons quickly upped this lead to ten points battling off a Notre Dame rally that was squelched by the two-minute rule. Trailing by only two baskets when the ruling went into effect the Irish lost the game of cat-and-mouse and the ball game.
Dan Bagley carried the brunt of the Notre Dame’s attack with 22 markers ' and again shared the rebounding with Don Strasser. O’Shea had a very poor night, for although he scored 15 points his shooting average was low. Leslie had an equally bad evening. The story of the Notre Dame demise can be traced to a mediocre .280 shooting average. It was slight consolation that Kevin O’Shea reached and passed the 1000 point mark for his college career.
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Feb. 25—Simple—Violet—Ferial Mass for the Sat. after Ash Wednesday; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd Living and the Dead; 4th Against the Persecutors of the Church.
Sunday, Feb. 26—Semi-double— Privilege of the First Class—Violet—First Sunday of Lent; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd for the Living and Dead; Credo; Preface for Lent.
Monday, Feb. 27—double—white —St. Gabriel of Our Lady of Sorrows, confessor; 2nd Coll, from the Feria; 3rd Against the Pers.; Tract; last Gospel from the Feria or
Violet—Mass of the Feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast of St. Gabriel; 3rd Against the Pers.
Tuesday, Feb. 28—Simple—Violet—Mass of the Feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd Living and the Dead; 4th Against the Pers.
Wednesday, March 1—Simple— Violet—Mass of the Feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd for the Living and the Dead; 4th Against the Pers.
Thursday, March 2—Simple— Violet—Mass of the Feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd for the Living and the Dead; 4th for the Pope.
Friday, March 3—Simple—Violet—Mass of the Feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us; 3rd for the Living and the Dead; 4th Against the Pers.
The Scholastic
-A -
Five Retreats Planned On Lenten Weekends
The first of five Lenten retreats be-

The two final retreats, on March 25-26 and April 1-2, will be held for the sophomore and freshman halls, respectively. Presiding over the sophomore retreat will be Eev. Bernard Mullahy,
C.S.C., assistant head of the Department of Philosophy. The freshmen conferences will be under the direction of Eev. Cornelius Laskowski, c.s.c.
Participation by the students is voluntary. This is the fifth year in which Notre Dame has conducted Lenten retreats.
Really Fighting IRISH
Sure and you say there are no Irish at Notre Dame?
Begorrah, your opinion will be changed just by reading over the list of students enrolled this semester in a single class in the Department of Speech. Instructor Eobert J. Affeldt counted no less than fifteen Irish noses when he first took the roll at the opening of the Spring Semester.
Leading the Gaelics in the class are four Murphys, two Brennans, and nine other staunch Irish names such as Clancy, Duffy, Duggan, Hogan, McCarty, McGovern, McKenna, Connor and Eeilly.
Reyniers Talks in East
Professor James A. Eeyniers, Director of LOBUND, spoke at a luncheon last week in connection with a biology institute at Duquesne University. He discussed research in germ free life.
gins tomorrow evening in the Alumni Hall chapel, for graduate students.
After a half-hour conference in the chapel at 8 p.m. Saturday, the group will recite the Eosary at the Grotto. Ten priests will then hear confessions in the main church.
Sunday morning will feature Mass and a conference at 7:30, a conference at 9:30, and a holy hour at 10:45, all in the Alumni chapel. Another con© ference, also in the chapel, at 1 p.m. will be followed by the Way of the Cross outdoors and a renewal of baptismal vows.
The other retreats will be conducted in much the same manner, the second and third being held in the Alumni chapel and the last two in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel.
Eev. William Eobinson, c.s.c., will conduct the first retreat. Father Eobinson, teacher of theology for more than © a decade, has had much experience in mission and retreat work.
The second retreat will be held on the following weekend, March 4-5, for Sorin, Walsh, and Alumni halls. Eev. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c., University vice-president, will preach the conferences.
Eev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., assistant editor of Ave Mana, will address the men of Dillon, Howard, and Badin Halls at the third retreat March 11-12.
‘9 Feb. 24, 1950
snnnninnnnnniiinHnHiiiniiinniiiiniiiiiHiniiiTnnninfnRninniinnininniinniiiinnne I SAVE 50/NOW I I ON ANTHON MHNNAY | * NANCE LESSONS |
DON’T WAIT another minute to learn to dance “The New Arthur Way.” Even a beginner can learn die secret to good dancing in just one lesson thanks to Arthur Murray’s wonderful discovery, “The First Step To Popularity.” Put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and see how quickly you will become a sought-after partner. Bring in your favorite partner and learn together at half the price. Come in or phone 2-3339 now. .
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne Street, South Bend, Ind.
COME IN FOR FREE TRIAL LESSON TODAY.
23
Names Make News
Dean CLARENCE E. MANION, of the College of Law was the speaker at a luncheon meeting of the South Bend-Mishawaka Board of Realtors last week. . . .
Dr. CHARLES C. PRICE, of the department of chemistry spoke on “World Federalism” at a meeting of the International Relations seminar in South Bend. He was introduced by Professor LOUIS RADELET, director of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of Christians and Jews. . . . -----------------
The author of the article, “Dean Found and the Immutable Natural Law,” currently appearing in the Fordham Law Review is KARL KREIL-KAMP, of the Notre Dame department of philosophy. . . .
In a talk before Prof. BROOKS SMEETON’s class in advanced advertising, Clarence W. Harding of the South Bend Tribune explained the use of factual market information to potential advertisers. . . .
LEON HART, co-captain of last year’s Irish football squad, was married last week in Turtle Creek, Pa., to the former Miss Lois Newyahr. . . . An alumnus, JAMES JOSEPH McLAUGH-LIN, of Greensburg, Pa., has announced his engagement to Miss Mary Kathryn Kreutzer, of Peru, Ind. . . .
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s_.c., President of Notre Dame, said in a speech before the Great Books founda
tion in New Trier High School, that men of good will “are the need of the age.’ . . .
Dr. RAYMOND P. KENT, ph.d., of Notre Dame, spoke at DePaul University, Chicago, on “Recent Trends in Money and Banking.” Dr. Kent addressed the first session of the third annual meeting of the Midwest unit, Catholic Business Education association. . . .
The engagement of ALOYSIUS LEO KUNTZ, ’47, to Miss Aline W. Shiell, of New Orleans, was announced recently. Mr. Kuntz is the son of Prof. LEO F. KUNTZ, of South Bend.
Professor FRANCIS W.. KERVICK of the Department of Architecture has
been made an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects.
Professor Vito A. Gerone won first prize in Craftsmanship and Professional Model Building in an exhibit of architectural work executed by members of the Indiana Society of Architects. The exhibit is being held in the Block Auditorium in Indianapolis.
KCS to Sponsor Talks On Vocational Guidance
Following a precedent set last year, a series of lectures in vocational guidance for Freshmen and Sophomores will be presented beginning Wednesday, March 1. Organized by the AB group of YCS under Ken Hoelscher, the program is backed by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and the Student Council.
Whenever possible, heads of the various departments will address interested students on the requirements for majoring in their particular fields as well as the prospects after graduation. This presentation should aid students, yet undecided as to specific courses of study, to resolve this difficult situation.
Law will be the first major examined in the cycle. Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law will discuss this course on March 1 at 4:15 p.m. in the Law Building. The program in Political Science, under the direction of Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., will be presented on March 2, time and place again 4:15 p.m. in the Law Building.
Posters will be placed about the campus giving additional details on the program’s format. The entire series ■will last three weeks.
WALKER’S DOWNSTAIRS STORE	136 NORTH MICHIGAN
CORNER MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
RINGSIDER SHORTS, white and colored.
WHITE T SHIRTS, ATHLETIC SHIRTS, NYLON SHORTS, U. SHIRTS, POLO SHIRTS.
SKIPPER T SHIRTS, long and short sleeves, navy blue, dark green and grey.	(see this number)
Expert on East Europe Opens Aquinas Lectures
Following the theme “Catholics and the World Today,” the sixth annual Aquinas Lecture series will get underway Sunday evening when Dr. Oscar Halecki delivers an address entitled “The Vatican and World Peace.” This opening lecture, to be held at the Central High School auditorium, will begin at 8:15 p.m.
Dr. Halecki is considered an expert on Poland and Eastern European countries. He will speak on the relationship of Catholics to world affairs. A graduate of the University of Crakow, Dr. Halecki has studied and lectured in many European universities. From 1918 to 1939, when the invasion of Poland forced him into exile, he was Professor of Eastern European History at the University of Warsaw. He is at pres-^ ent Director of the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences and Professor of Eastern European History at Fordham University. The author of several books, Dr. Halecki’s latest work is Eugenio Pacelli: Pope of Peace which will be published this spring.
Tickets for the entire series of lectures cost $2.50 and may be purchased at the Aquinas Book Store, 110 East LaSalle Ave.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
24
The Scholastic
Priests Offered Special Summer Marriage Course
A unique marriage counseling program, designed to train Catholic priests in the secular knowledge required for competent modern family counseling, will be offered during the 1950 Summer Session at Notre Dame.
Aroused by recent trends toward juvenile delinquency and easy divorce, the University has decided to offer the course in an effort to fill the gap in guidance training which now exists in most theological seminary programs.
In the backbone course of the new program, entitled “Marriage Counseling Problems,” the priests will hear a number of guest lecturers from various fields discuss the biological, medical, legal and economic implications of marriage today. Supplementary courses will deal with the general field of social work, sociology of child development, social psychiatry, family problems, and guidance techniques.
Sociologist Presents Talk
John H. Kane, instructor in the Department of Sociology, spoke last Monday night in Culver, Ind., at that community’s annual Brotherhood Week dinner.
The subject of his speech was “Economic Factors Affecting Minority groups.”
Mr. Kane, a member of the board of directors of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, is the author of two monographs: “Negro Gangs in Philadelphia, Pa., the Tops and Bottoms,” and “Anti-Semitism Among Catholic College Students in Philadelphia.”
Religious Books Released
The first two volumes in a “Religion for Laymen” series were released this week by the University of Notre Dame Press, according to an announcement by Dale Francis, Director of the Notre Dame Press.
One of the new volumes, “God and the World of Man,” is authored by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame. Tested in local classrooms, this volume was prepared for university classes, adult study groups and laymen interested in a greater knowledge of their faith. Father Hesburgh prepared the volume with the aim of making theology interesting reading.
The second volume in the series is “Christian Virtues,” by the Rev.
® Feb. 24, 1950
Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Professor of Religion at Notre Dame. “Christian Virtues,” which also has been tested in the classroom, is a study of moral theology.
Mr. Francis announced that other
to touch. Crusty old character. Wants you to be college-bred, but knows it's a four-year loaf
f	tvith his dough. Spends time wondering
how you'll turn out and when you'll turn in.
A doll-up, button-down with the soft roll that's the college man's staple diet. f	White and solid colors—all Size-Fixt
'	' (average fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less).
CAMPUS FAVORITE
volumes in the “Religion for Laymen” series will' be forthcoming from the Notre Dame Press. Each of the first two volumes is priced at three dollars, with special discounts for study club and university groups.
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Zhoren
Year’s Highlight
The third annual Mardi Gras dance and carnival are over. And although the final returns have . not yet been announced, the entire project has been declared an unqualified success.
The dance at the Palais last Friday night was by far one of the best affairs ever held at Notre Dame — at least, in the last few years. We’ve never seen the big ballroom so packed. Every part of the dance was carried out with perfection. The Junior Class rates a big blow for the job they did in sponsoring it.
When a group will take on the responsibility of running such an event, knowing all the time that there will be no monetary gains in it for itself, then you can be sure the group is school spirited to the core. The Juniors realized that all profits from the dance would go toward the over all Student Relief and campus charity drive. That didn’t deter them, however, from going ahead and making the affair a complete success.
The Palais, because of its tremendous size, is always a problem to decorate. But that didn’t stop the third year men, either. They fixed the place up great. They imported an unknown band; one that had no famous name. Still, it provided danceable music all night long and did what few high-priced orchestras ever do — it took very few breaks.
The entire committee should feel proud of having produced such a fine night of fun. In fact, the entire Junior Class deserves a low bow of appreciation for the job they did in swelling the charity drive’s receipts. If the dance was indicative of what this year’s Junior Prom will be like, then no one need worry about its ultimate success.
Carnival Comments
Then there was the two-night carnival in the Drill Hall. We can remember the first annual Mardi Gras. That was a trial by error innovation in the year’s calendar but turned out to be a tremendous success. Last year’s carnival followed suit and now this year’s did the same and couldn’t have been improved upon.
We wonder if everyone realizes the
26
amount of work and time that some students unselfishly give up in order to make this function go over the top. The committees had worked on the carnival since early last fall. Then, as it gained momentum, more and more students got into the act. We dropped into the Drill Hall last weekend to see how things were progressing. The place was filled with noise. Lumber was strewn all over. Various club members were too busy to even talk as they hammered their respective booths together. One pessimistic carpenter said, “Ah, it’ll never be ready in time.”
The doors opened Monday night — and the observer’s prediction was unfounded. Everything was in its assigned place. Barkers growled their wares. Lucre started to pour across the boards. No other Notre Dame function throughout the year requires more help than does the Mardi Gras and no other function deserves more prajse.
Run completely by students, it is an example what we can do when given the freedom of action. As is the way with anything of such proportions, there are always many who go unsung for- the job they have done. In the case of the carnival, there were those who planned the shindig; those who worked daily in the caf, receiving books for the car award; those who gave up last weekend in order to build the booths; those who worked the booths; and many, many others. And last, but not least— each and every student who opened up his thinly-lined wallet.
The Mardi Gras carnival is something Notre Dame can be proud of; it is something that each student can be proud of.
WND Series
WND did a great service for those of us who were practically snowbound on the campus last Saturday night. That airing of the DePaul game in Chicago comes under the heading of just plain great. Basketball is a hard game to describe; there are few top announcers in this field on the radio. Joe Shelly and Bill Sahm, however, really did a grade-A job of it.
Unlike the first experiment from Chicago, last Saturday night’s program came in very clear. The relief work done by Shelly was especially good. His
local slant on the game and on the proceedings at the Stadium made for
good listening.
The halftime interview with Ann Blyth was the only irritating portion of the entire broadcast. The room in which we heard the game was filled with Blyth-rooters, who were ready to draw and quarter the ND man after the interview. Few of the listeners could understand how any one person could be so tactless. And another thing: they all felt that the interviewer talked too much. But, perhaps, the interviewer was so flustered at meeting a real, live movie star, he couldn’t help but gum up the works. In a way, we can’t say that we blame him!
Dr. Ervin Addresses A.I.Ch.E.
The first meeting of the A.I.Ch.E. for the Spring semester was held Wednesday night, February 15. The main event of the evening was a lecture given by Mr. Robert F. Ervin, Business Administrator of LOBUND. Mr. Ervin’s most interesting and enlightening discussion of the history, divisions and the scope of LOBUND brought to light the enormous and far-reaching importance of germ-free life. Following his talk, Mr. Ervin presented slides illustrating the various phases of LOBUND. The evening was concluded by a tour through the LOBUND Laboratories in the basement of the Biology building with the formulation of plans to tour the recently completed laboratories north of the University.
At the short business meeting preceding Mr. Ervin’s lecture, the new officers of the club were introduced, as was Mr. John C. Treacy, recently appointed instructor in Chemical Engineering. Plans discussed for the en- .y V suing semester included: a banquet ten- i tatively set for March 17; a local plant inspection trip; a Communion breakfast; and talks by noted men in the chemistry and chemical engineering । fields.	I
Fr. Cunningham to Travel	I
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C.,	I
Professor of Education, will attend the | annual conference of the Philosophy of J Education society at New York Univer- < sity on Feb. 23 and 24. Teachers of phi-losophy of education from colleges and universities throughout the country will take part in the two-day affair.
According to Dr. George E. Axtelle, president of the society and chairman of the Department of Philosophy of Educa- > tion at New York University, the two-day conference will “discuss and develop ways of making our democratic attitudes. activities and beliefs make sense to those we teach.”
The Scholastic "y
©
NOW . . . for the first time in its history, the Notre Dame Bookstore is
“Dealing in Diamonds”
• FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE • TO HELP YOU SAVE
©

The BOOKSTORE has been able, through the L. G. Balfour Co., to obtain beautiful matched sets of Bluecrest engagement and wedding rings. This market is EXCLUSIVE WITH THE BOOKSTORE in this vicinity and, most important of all, we are able to pass them on AT A CONSIDERABLE. SAVING to you.
ft
You are familiar with the Balfour Company through your purchase of Notre Dame Class Rings from them. It has dealt in diamonds on an exclusive basis for years and now brings this service to the whole world. Their diamonds are produced according to these FIVE POINTS OF QUALITY: purity (clearness and freedom from flaws), color (the famous bluewhite), cut (in correct proportion), fire (refract maximum color), and size. Each diamond is selected by Balfour’s expert Gemologist and fully guaranteed to be a perfect stone of the finest quality.
©
We have in our office a glistening display of six beautiful rings which we invite you to see. For beauty, price, and quality we know you will find no better. Thus we display them with full confidence in the integrity of the merchant — L. G. Balfour.
The Notre Dame Bookstore
Feb. 24, 1950
27

\ MISS 'HALEPINING SHERM^BlffiNGSite^!
Vu -<
i 'i & A
STORKS
nuuik MiMg/l
nd always





,..^^a[r^
P”?co’FARMER soys-TOBACCO	tobaccos.. •
Chest^H^
satisfy >R9
the higbest pr>c	q
' B *>'
nvulhns.s.c.
,arehe tor
^xi
"JOLSON SINGS AGAIN"
A Sidney Buchman Production A Columbia
Technicolor Production
^Chesterfield
The Best Cigarette for YOU to Smoke
Copyright 1950. Uggeti & Mms Tobacco Co.