&&& pAKMSMKfi?-1 ™>wirofl
.. PHILIP MORRIS...AND ONLY PHILIP MORRIS ... IS ENTIRELY FREE OF A SOURCE OF IRRITATION USED

tn
o« a
V*’
- **
■

wsrMMWs
IN ALL OTHER LEADING I CIGARETTES!
—»«l*sa®sas®gs
PHILIP MORRIS gives you
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE than any other leading brand.
YOU’LL BE GLAD TOMORROW, YOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRIS TODAY!
starring n lUC,UE BAU and DESI ARNAZ
new TV faugh not over CBS
&
You’ll love
“I LOVE LUCY

I
__
s PHILIP MORRIS
The Scholastic
■ -i
&
You’re way ahead of competition
ENGINEERS!
Openings Available
with
A4F COMPAAfr
REPRESENTATIVE WILL
BE ON CAMPUS
APRIL 1st
Boeing is interested in Engineering graduates with a B.S. or higher degree for aircraft—
•	Development
•	Design
•	Research
•	Production
•	Tooling
Also physicists and mathematicians with advanced degrees and a background or interest in engineering application. Openings are available at both the Seattle, Washington, and Wichita, Kansas, plants.
A group meeting will be held during the campus visit. A motion picture showing Boeing engineering assignments and recreational and living potentials at Seattle and Wichita will be shown. General discussion period will follow.
These are excellent opportunities. Boeing is one of the world’s leading aircraft firms —designer and builder of such famed airplanes as the B-17, B-29, Stratocruiser, B-47 Stratojet, and the new eight-jet B-52 heavy bomber.
FOR DETAILS CONTACT YOUR ENGINEERING PLACEMENT OFFICE
Pick your favorite Arrow style, and you’ll win comfort every time! (And thanks to the wonderful new’ Arafold collar, any Arrow’ Sports Shirt looks fine—collar open or closed—with or without a tie!)
ARROW
»»-------------->►
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERT*S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
March 28, 1952
3
WRINKLE! COLORS WON’T FADE! *
the Van Heusen
shirt
with the famous soft collar that
wort wrinkle ever!
is now in smart, non-fade shades!

Fine- smooth broadcloths that keep their luster and rich tones through tubbing and scrubbing, scalding water and harsh soap suds. Regular or widespread collar styles. And you get a new Van Heusen free if yours ever shrinks out of size! W5 . $495
‘“--“•“Van Heusen**”"4
REG. T. M.
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
If you were unable to get together with our representatives, we’d like you to know about the excellent openings available to qualified engineers, mathematicians and physicists. Our brochure points out and pictures the history, development, progress, organization, expansion, facilities, programs, benefits, and opportunities open to you at Bell Aircraft, a leader in the Research and Development of Supersonic Aircraft, Rocket Power Plants, Guided Missiles, and Electronic and Servo-mechanisms equipment.
(Aeronautical Engineering Training NOT Required.)
MAY JF£ SEND YOU A COPY OF "ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES"
WRITE
Mgr. Engineering Personnel
P. O. Box 1	BUFFALO 5, N. Y.
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Toy Trains magazine is now on sale in the caf . . .
It's Spring Again—I Think
Just in case you weren’t looking, Spring arrived last Friday, March 21, hung around for about seven and a half hours and ducked right out again.
You had to look sharp or you’d miss it. But that’s the way, or at least one of the ways, that nature likes to operate around here—fake ’em all out with a few hours of sunshine and then throw them a curve-ball snowstorm or a 20-point temperature drop.
Veteran observers on campus are never taken in by these false arrivals of the vernal equinox. They know when the genuine article is here.
They know that Spring is here only when the Commerce men come struggling out of their halls, rubbing the sleep from their eyes and make for the golf course. In California, the swallows return to Capistrano; at Notre Dame, the Commerce lads return to the greens and fairways. It’s a sure sign of Spring.
With This Ring . . .
And activity across the highway has begun to reach a fever pitch also. But it’s a coy and passive activity, for this is the season for miniatures. Yes, and from what we can note it’s going to be a heavy season, too.
A bumper crop of youthful “flies”
have already made theix- presentations and others have theix- names down on the bookstore order blanks fox- delivery before May.
It’s certainly disconcerting to note that right here on the Scholastic three of oux- editors and a cartoonist have joined the I-gave-her-a-miniature club. Those of us who remain in the bachelor blush of young manhood fear that this might mean a slight change in editorial policy toward SMC. We stand as rocks in troubled waters.
On Again, Off Again	.
At this writing, WND, the student whispex- of Notre Dame, is broadcasting to St. Mary’s. Due to technical difficulties, the airing of programs across the highway which began about a month back have been x-athex- spas-
By Jack Hynes
modic, so that, at times, no one seems to be quite sure whether or not we are reaching the female audience.
We’ve received suggestions that the station forget about the whole thing and wait for television, either that oxmove St. Mary’s closer—the engineers are getting tired of walking back and forth from the Fieldhouse to LeMans. Anybody wanta buy a transmitter, slightly used?
Play Ball!	;
But activity on the golf course isn’t the sole sign that the frigid season is over. Campus west siders will soon be taking to Badin Bog and the resumption of the twilight softball league. Season tickets now on sale from Lee Steiden in Sorin house.
Outdoors Preview
The Navy Drill Hall will be taken ovex- next weekend by the South Bend Sportsmen’s Show, which featured last year, you will undoubtedly remember, -Miss America.
Haven’t heard anything about Miss America appearing this year, but the show does promise plenty in the line of interesting displays and exhibitions, all calculated to pique the attention -of the Mark Trails and Deep Rivex-Jims on campus.
In Passing
Random notes from a frayed shirt-
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION *
cuff: Sorx-y to hear of the passing on of Model Jones—sort of knocks our plans fox- a campus Model Jones Fan Club into a cocked hat. Steve Canyon isn’t doing too well either, we note. As a mattex* of fact, the only comic strip characters who are in any good shape these days are Mary Wox-th and Orphan Annie. More powex- to them, I say.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Why?
A JOB
OR
Mien you get it
The Case of the
THREE-CENT PATSY
Once there was a Senior who faced the grim prospect of Graduation. With Social Security 42 years away, he recognized the need of a job.
So he burrowed manfully
through Classified Sections, under “Help Wanted,” in search of the Right. Niche. Spotted it. too, one day. A honey. Good Money, the right "field, nice location, pensions and benefits up to here. The ad asked for Brief Histories from applicants.
So he wrote. Not cockily. but convincingly. A masterpiece that took four nights and filled six pages with Deathless Prose. It left no doubt that here was The Man for the Job. He slapped on a 3-cent stamp.
P.S. — he didn't get the job. His epistle wound up as 334th in the pile, and they never got down that far. Hired one of the first eight, as a matter of fact—all of whom had Enough Brains to flash the Data by telegram and land on Top of the Heap.
Whether you’re canvassing Personnel Managers or just hooking up with a Hen Back Home, you can count on a Telegram to get there first. A Potent Point to remember, too, when sounding out Pop for Pesos, remembering Mother’s Day, or working up a Weekend. Two Words to the Wise are “Western Union.”
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
March 28, 1952
5
Vol. 93
March 28, 1952
No. 22
MARCH 28
PALACE (to April 1)—Meet Danny Wilson (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) is the story of the meteoric rise of a young singer, played by Frank Sinatra, and incorporates events not too far removed from Sinatra’s personal success story. Sinatra sings many of the songs which helped to establish him as a top vocalist, throws a few punches at various and sundry individuals and even does a gangster in. Shelley Winters is the female lead. You may like it if you can take Sinatra. War on homesteaders around Independence, Missouri, after the Civil War is the theme of The Bushwhackers (A-2).
MARCH 29
AVON (indefinite run)—The problem of war bride and interracial marriage are combined for the theme of Japanese War Bride (A-2) with Don Taylor and Shirley Yamaguchi. Taylor brings his Japanese wife home after service overseas and has to fight family hostility to get her accepted. Not too bad a picture.
MARCH 30
WASHINGTON HALL—Notre Dame Glee Club concert, 8 p.m.
COLFAX (to April 5)—Arthur- Miller’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play Death of a Salesman (A-2), is faithfully reproduced on the -	screen, with Fredric March	in	the lead role. Basically,	it is the
'	story of the disintegration	of	a traveling salesman,	34	years on
- ■	the road, a lifetime fraud	to	his wife and family.	A	top-notch
'	drama and the best picture	in	town this week. Not	recommended
. for the kiddies.
GRANADA (to April 1)—On Dangerous Ground (A-2) is woven around the tough-but-unhappy cop routine pulled so many times before on the screen, but in spite of the trite idea the film • turns out to be a fairly good one. Robert Ryan is the big city Gpp ; whose heart is finally softened by the sweet, simple girl, played - by Ida Lupino. Plenty of action and drama in this one. Lilli Marlene (B) is supposed to be some sort of story about the sweetheart of both sides in the North African campaign of World War II. With Lisa Daniely and Hugh McDermott.
APRIL 1
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Seventh session of the Marriage Institute. Father Smyth will speak on “Husband, Wife, and the child” and Mrs. Dorothy Riordan on “Home Training and Sex Instruction.”
APRIL 2
GRANADA (to April 5)—A deserter from a Civil War battle becomes a hunted man when his desertion causes the death of all but one man in his company in Fort Defiance (A-2). But before the pic is over, there are battles with the Indians and innumerable chances for the hero to redeem himself, which he does. With Dane Clark, Ben Johnson and Peter Graves. The Torch has Ida Lupino and is something about Mexico.
APRIL 3
WASHINGTON HALL—Second of the chamber music concerts will start at 8 p.m. Program will consist of Bach’s “Flute Quintet,” Mozart’s “Horn Quintet” and the feature work will be a bassoon concerto by C. M. von Weber.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—Eighth and final session of the Marriage Institute. Father Putz will speak on “Christianizing Family Life” and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley on “How to Make Families Happy.”
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN..............Circulafon
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fullmer, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: Our thanks this week go to Joe Tunney and Bob Phillips for posing. The Spring fishing contest inspired the cover and the feature you’ll find on page nine.
—Photos by Bob Huddleston
The Scholastic
Laetare Medal Goes to AECs Murray
ND Names Engineer Outstanding Layman
a Thomas E. Murray, a member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, was announced Sunday as the 1952 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman.
The announcement was made by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Mr. Murray is the 70th distinguished American to receive the Laetare Medal, so called because the award is an-nouncd on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. It was instituted by Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Murray succeeds John Henry Phelan, Beaumont, Texas, business executive and philanthropist, as recipient of tlie Laetare Medal. In 1950 the medal went to General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army. Movie actress Irene Dunne received the Laetare Medal in 1949.
In announcing the award, Father Cavanaugh said: “Mr. Murray is an outstanding example of a successful and prominent public official, humbly devoted to his Faith. Throughout both his private life as a leading engineer, and as a servant of the people of the United States in his important position with the Atomic Energy Commission, he has led an exemplary Catholic life.
Three Times a Knight
“Mr. Murray, whose family of 11 children, includes two Catholic priests has given unselfishly of his time and effort to Catholic Charities, as well as to other good causes. His role as one of the nation’s leading Catholic laymen has been recognized by the “ Holy Father, who has knighted Mr.
Murray in three Papal Orders.
“I welcome him into the distinguished group who comprise Notre Dame’s Laetare Medalists.”
Mr. Murray, who helped to establish the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, formerly served as head of the Catholic Charities in Brooklyn. Papal titles, conferred on him include those of Knight of St. Gregory, Knight of Malta and Knight of the Holy Sepulchre.
LAETARE MEDALIST MURRAY
A Distinguished Group
ANOTHER SHORTIE
Once again we are forced to reduce the number of pages in the magazine. But please bear with us—we hope this will be the last short issue.
Mr. Murray was named in March, 1950, to the Atomic Energy Commission to fill out the unexpired term of David E. Lilienthal. In June of the same year he was reconfirmed by the Senate for a new two-year term as a member of the Commission.
The 1952 Laetare Medalist was in the public eye in New York City between 1932 and 1940, when he was receiver for the bankrupt Interborough Rapid Transit Lines, which operated most of the elevated lines as well as the first subway and its extensions.
Mr. Murray is credited with having brought about a substantial reduction in the operating deficit within two years, with tiding the transit system over labor crises, and, in general, with exhibiting conspicuous executive ability in the eight difficult years before the city took over and merged all subway and elevated lines.
Yale Man
In 1947 Mr. Murray was selected as the presiding trustee of a three-man board to administer the health and welfare fund of the United Mine Workers of America. He served in this capacity until February, 1948, when he resigned to return to private business.
Born in Albany, N. Y., on June 20, 1891, Mr. Murray was educated at Our Lady of Victory School in Brooklyn, St. Francis Xavier High School in Manhattan, and the Yale University Sheffield Scientific School.
After graduation from college, Mr. Murray worked briefly for the New York Edison Company and then joined the Metropolitan Engineering Company and Thomas E. Murray, Inc.,. the Brooklyn businesses established by his father to develop, manufacture and market inventions and patents and to design and build electric power, plants.
Mr. Murray currently holds some 200 patents in the electrical and welding fields, including those for the Murray copper radiator and for a water-cooled furnace wall for power plants.
March 28, 1952
3
MEN BEHIND “SOPHISTICATION'’
And 55 Minutes Later—Nothing
Junior Prom Bids Disappear in 55 Minutes; Weekend Will Include Trip to Indiana Dunes
^Tickets for the Junior Prom were •sold out 55 minutes after they were placed on sale in the Dining Hall. The Prom will be April 25 in the Rockne Memorial.
Jerry Boehling, ticket chairman, and his committee worked with Joe McDade through that noon meal and during the evening meal.
r _ McDade has announced that there .are a few rooms—all doubles with bath—remaining in the Hoffmann and the Jefferson Hotels. No other rooms are available except through him, with Monday as the final date for reserving one of these rooms.
McDade also has a list of private homes available and wants any junior who is putting his date up in a private home to arrange it through him. This will avoid confusion and trouble for the women who are offering the private homes.
Dick Harvey, entertainment chairman, has announced plans for two ■ prom weekend activities. A trip to the sand dunes at Michigan City, Ind., with transportation free of charge, is on tap for Saturday afternoon. Also, the junior class, in conjunction with the Student Council; will sponsor a dance in the Rockne Memorial on Saturday evening.
Plans have been made for the prom
evening whereby a “Mr. and Mrs. Sophistication” will reign over the dance. Just who the evening’s honored couple is will be determined by the selection of a prom bid number from a box on a Chazz and Jack show during the week before the dance.
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra will play for the prom.
Fathers Smyth, Putz Speak At Marriage Forum Closing
Next Thursday will mark the closing of the 1952 Marriage Institute. The seventh and eighth sessions will be held April 1 and 3 at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
At the seventh session, Rev. James P, Smyth of the Department of Religion will speak on “Husband, Wife, and the Child.” Mrs. Dorothy Riordan, a mother of nine, will talk about “Home Training and Sex Instruction.”
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, will be the first speaker of the concluding session. Father Putz’ topic is “Christianizing Family Life.” On the second pai*t of the evening’s program is a short discussion of “How to Make Families Happy,” conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley of Chicago.
Flow of Blood Begins • Thursday and Friday
Notre Dame blood will flow next Thursday and Friday, when the Fort Wayne area mobile blood unit sets up shop in the Drill Hall to accept approximately 300 pints.
A Red Cross bloodmobile from the Chicago area will visit the campus April 21-25 to take about 1700 pints.
Previously pledges of blood by the student body had passed the 2,000 mark, but failure of some of those under 21 to turn in a parental release slip has reduced the number of acceptable pledges. The Red Cross will not take blood from a minor without written permission of his parents.
Anyone who still wishes to pledge his blood or turn in pledge cards or parental release slips may do so at Q. Room 223 Howard Hall or through his hall representative. Additional pledge cards and release slips may also be obtained- at that address.
All blood taken here will be immediately processed and shipped directly to Korea, the Red Cross disclosed. The blood will probably be used within eight or nine days.
Assisted by student volunteers, the Red Cross staff will handle seven donors every 15 minutes from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thursday and Friday. The procedure will take from 30 to 45 minutes for each donor. Necessary class cuts will be taken care of by the director of discipline.
Donors are cautioned against eating any fatty foods before giving blood. Each student will be given fruit juice before the blood is taken, then coffee and other refreshments afterwards.
After he has given his blood, the student will receive a lapel pin signifying his donation. Later, he will receive by mail a certificate acknowledging his contribution and stating his blood type for future use.
TOWN MEETING MONDAY
A town meeting, sponsored by the Academy of Political Science, will take the place of the regular Student Council meeting Monday night at 7:30 in Washington Hall.
Discussion of the present Constitution, as well as the newly - proposed Two - Council and Senate-Cabinet Plans, will be in order, as will any other plan for.which a 100-name petition is submitted to the Council office by Monday afternoon.
The Scholastic
fHERE
look out. Your nemesis is
at hand.
: auus
WTOHSSHW
F S4W0R '*^*^** U w.*'
“An Exciting Novelty
Sat, Marc WTIE
Mira
56
Hie Hata Baldwin Ann®*.
ajp*



BOTTOM: I know I’m in bed, so all this must be one horrible dream. Let’s look at the situation calmly and logically. I'm a student and this clock says it's five in the morning. Even asleep I can see there’s a basic contradiction in terms here somewhere. I can’t even dream up a good reason for this hour. Oh, oh, I just thought of one—that fishing bet I made. Well, catching a larger fish and collecting a buck from that guy is worth getting up early. Ho for the open road and the frosty morn, for the cool lake breezes and a tug on your line. Fish,
March 28, 1952
- 9
“Hi, there, how's fishing
today?
good. I
s
look on his face.
Here we are. According
to all avail-
able reports this place is fairly teeming with fish. Wonder what kind’s the biggest. A nice, fat Northern Pike
would guess, musky shame for a
be pretty hard to beat, I’d But on the other hand, a would be a real prize. I won’t the guy, though. I’ll settle lousy bass.
don’t have very much time, you
Good, know.
Okay, fish, don t everyone hit at once.
I can just see the

Well, we’ll just paddle out to the middle of the lake. Nothing like being alone with nature, I always say. In with the boat and—unfff, what’s with this thing? It doesn’t lift. GrrunnfF! Take that, you accursed thing! If you don't want to lift there’s nothing I can do to help you. Easy there, boy, we don't want anyone to catch us talking to boats. It wouldn’t look so good. Well, no wonder! The thing is chained down. Who needs a boat, anyhow? We’ll just stand on the shore and haul them in. And no paddling.
10
The Scholastic

Sure wish those fish
that's sure a beauty that piece of paper in
“Gee, what's
Ten thousand bunch.
strange, it says ‘A Taste Delight Caught in Alaska.’. Why you fake Izaak Walton. I should have known there was a catch to it.”
you caught. But its mouth? That's
Seems to be men. Why
a httle indecision down there. Let s go, postpone the inevitable? Yeah, he’ll
sure be amazed. With about fishing, he'll be
what little that guy knows
lucky to catch
a thing.
I’d
packed a lunch to bring along. But
apparently don’t believe in chow. That’s a
pretty cheap way to play the game, if you ask me.
fish, and not a hungry one in the
You don t mean do you? I’m not found it cowering
you actually caught that whale, quite sure just what mine is. I from a minnow behind a sunken
log. Looks like an amoeba that forgot to stop. I hate to admit it, but you’re the winner.”
March 28, 1952
Role Open in Musical As Cast Rehearses
Who’s Granby? is the question they were asking this week as the forthcoming student musical entered rehearsals.
At tryouts last week Director Jack Hynes had managed to cast the entire show with the exception of the big character part of Mr. Granby, the sponsor of the show-within-a-show.
Rehearsals this week were held with himself heading the part of Granby and frantically searching for someone to fill the very difficult and very big part.
Otherwise, the cast for the musical —which is scheduled to run May 4-8— is all picked and already rehearsing for the show, the actors with Coauthor Hynes, and the singers and dancers with Co-author Jerry Costello.
Co-author Chas Schubert plays the lead part of Irving Addleman, a New York disc jockey with big ideas, while Bill Toohey, a Notre Dame senior, and Nancy Driscoll, a student at St. Mary’s, will handle the top singing rolls.
Tom Driscoll, a journalism senior, has the part of Parkes, an acid-tongued butler, while Freshman Tom Cassidy will play Eddie, Addleman’s announcer friend.
Tom “Peaches” Foley and Tony Crit-elli—two of the bigger men on campus —are scheduled for a specialty number as the Schwartz brothers, while Hildegrade Vargas, a mainstay of University Theatre productions in the past will be Tondelaya, a small but important character part.
Other cast members include Jean Artesani, Jack Kissel, Bill Delaney, Bill Bleakley, John Burke, Jack Corcoran, Tom Craig, Irv Carrig, Paul Corcoran, Fred Esser, Bill Gorman, Don Fager, Jeannie Dosmann, Joe Heubner, and Joe Gargan.
Pre-Registration Underway; Soph Class Begins Today
Students in the undergraduate colleges at Notre Dame are now preregistering for room reservations for the 1952 Fall semester. The period of pre-registration began last Wednesday and will continue through April 4.
Sophomores will register today, and Monday and Tuesday of next week, while freshmen are scheduled to register next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Registration for all classes is taking place in the Office of ’Student Accounts, first floor, Main Building.
Notice of his specific time to pre;
12
register has already been sent to each individual student. The student is asked to adhere to this time in order to avoid any inconvenience with regard to his registration.
A fee of $50 must be paid at the time of pre-registration as evidence that the room reservation is being made in good faith. Failure of the student to register at the particular time assigned him will result in the loss of his preferred status as a student in attendance and an imposition of a $10 fee for reinstatement, in addition to the required deposit.
Fr. Matthew Miller Speaks At Aquinas Lecture Finale
The last of a series of Aquinas Lectures will be given at the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Ave., on Sunday evening, March 30.
FATHER MILLER “The Passion of Christ”
The Rev. Matthew Miller, O.F.M., will speak on “The Passion of Christ.” As Director of the Franciscan Apos-tolate of the Way of the Cross Father Miller has distributed 130,000 “Way of the Cross” crucifixes which are used by bed-ridden people all over the world.
Fathei* Miller devoted his life to distributing these crucifixes after having recovered from a serious illness many years ago. At the time of his illness, he was struck with the idea that it would be helpful if bed-ridden people could say the Way of the Cross by means- of a crucifix.
One can obtain one such crucifix free of charge by merely writing to Father Miller, care of the Apostolate headquarters in Brookline, Mass.
Father O'Brien Will Lecture f On 'New Lights on Marriage'
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph. D., one of Notre Dame’s most noted writers and lecturers, will speak tomorrow on “New Lights on Marriage,” for the series of Sociology Period talks.
The talk, to be given at 11 a. m. in Room 250, Main Building, will consider the practical treatment of the tensions and problems which commonly arise even in fairly well adjusted marriages.
Fathei- O’Brien is well equipped to discuss this subject, having spent some 36 years in marriage counselling.
He founded the Newman Foundation of the University of Illinois and served as Catholic chaplain there for 22 years, advising thousands of couples in problems of modern courtship and marriage.
Father O’Brien is the author of many articles, pamphlets, and books on the subject of marriage.
In his address, which will consist of a 35-minute talk and a short discussion period, Father O’Brien will present observations of many types of people from all parts of the United States.
Bronzewood Room Is Scene Of Villagers' Dance April 18
The rejuvenated Villagers Club, composed of the Notre Dame immigrants from South Bend, has planned a spring dance. The date is Friday, April 18. The affair will take place in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel M LaSalle between 9 and 12 p. m., with Gene Hull’s combo providing the swing.
This is the first try for the Villagers’ Spring Dance. However, it is hoped that it may blossom into an annual event.
There will be an Hawaiian theme with a marine-like effect, aided by nets across the walls and other suitable decorations. Leis are being imported from far-off Hawaii for the occasion.
The dance will be informal, with sport coats the accepted attire.
Backed by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph County, the dance is under the co-chairmanship of Don Mennucci and Bill Hagerty. Their efforts will be expended to assure the success of the Villagers Club’s first large venture in the past two or three years.
The price is $2.50 per couple.	,
'	4 c-
The Scholastic

Fencers Bid For National Honors
Duff, Gibbons, Jacobs to Represent Irish In NCAA Fencing Meet at Yale University
By KEN MURPHY
Three Notre Dame seniors—Brian Duff, Paul Gibbons and Jim Jacobs— are representing the Irish at Yale University today and tomorrow in the annual NCAA fencing meet, it was disclosed by Coach Walter Langford earliler this week.
Duff was by far the most competent choice to carry the Irish colors into the epee clashes, but it took a flip of the coin to decide who would wear the blue and gold in the sabre and foil. In the sabre, Gibbons won the toss over senior Charlie Daschle, while in the foil Jacobs got the nod over captain Jim Walsh and junior Jack Mooney.
Daschle Has Best Record
On the overall season, Gibbons, Daschle, Jacobs, and Mooney were tied for high-scoring honors with each copping 21 bouts. Daschle, however, had the best record of 21-4, followed closely by Gibbons with 21-5. Duff had the best record in the epee with a 15-9 mark, but could have easily reached the charmed 20 bout win circle had it not been for the fact that he was removed frequently in the closing matches of the campaign to allow some of the subs to gain needed experience.
Coach Langford is anything but optimistic .about his boys’ chances at New Haven, since any three good individuals can walk off with the honors. This places the Irish at a disadvantage, he asserts, since the Notre Dame team is built on team strength rather than individual strength. In fact, Langford rates the present squad second best only to his unbeaten team of two years ago in overall team strength. Moreover, this year’s team bettered the unbeaten ’50 squad’s record.
As for next season, Langford be
lieves that he may have to rely heavily on this year’s crop of freshmen, since he will be losing most of his experienced swordsmen through graduation this June. He hopes to move some of the sophomores and juniors up next season, but is nevertheless casting an anxious eye towards the 30 some freshmen who are working out daily in preparation for the Freshman Tournament the week after Easter.
DUFF, GIBBONS AND JACOBS
Notre Dame at Yale
Langford even went so far as to say that he is really hepped up about this year’s freshman squad, so by the time the Frosh Tournament is over, he should have a pretty good idea of the potential strength of the 1953 Notre Dame fancing team.
Notre Dame Bowlers Down St. Joseph of Rensselaer, 5-0
Notre Dame’s power-packed intercollegiate bowling team rolled roughshod over St. Joseph’s of Rensselaer last Sunday as they swept five consecutive matches to move into second place in the red hot hardwood conference.
Looking by far in their best form of the season the ND keglers had little trouble in winning, with a total of 524 pins separating both teams. In the third match the Irish won by 174 pins, with a 868 total as compared with St. Joe’s 694.
Pacing the Blue and Gold in every match but the last was Jim Shapiro, whose rousing series of 1019 garnered top honors for both teams. Shapiro’s scores of 208, 224, 203, 213, and 171 were enough to practically beat the Rensselaer single handed.
Outside of Shapiro’s pin blasting, Paul Pfohl contributed a neat 901 five-game set, with a 245 score in the final match. Jerry Sheehan followed with a commanding 859 total, while JimShan-non and Jerry Ledwidge bowled 778 and 753 respectively.
Irish Back in First;
Detroit Leads in Gold
By JACK SAND
As a result of the season’s most surprising upset that saw the lastplace Aero Club capture three out of four points from top-ranked Kansas City, the Irish Club vaulted back into first place to regain a two-point margin over the startled Kansans. Pacing the cellar-dwellers to their amazing triumph was Lou Bernardi, who registered a three-game series of 456 to lead both teams.
Taking full advantage of the KC’s unexpected slide, the Irishmen turned on the steam to vanquish the Architects in three straight matches. Leading the attack for Ernie Buckley’s
March 28, 1952
13
crew was Bob Klein, whose -568 series not only netted him top honors for the Blue League, but also third place in the high individual three-game series department.
Pfohl Cops Honors
Sharing the limelight with the Irish Club and Klein was the Chicago Club’s Paul Pfohl, who turned in the best individual performance of the season as he rolled a professional-like 605 series to take the lead away from Ray Bara in that department. Pfohl’s three-game total was compiled with scores of 210, 205, and 190 respectively.
Over in Gold League play it was powerful Detroit adding three more points to its already high total of 47, as they whipped the Cleveland Club in two matches out of three. Don Prebenda continued to remain hot as he led the pacesetters with a 483 set. Cleveland’s Dick Regan chipped in 485 for the losers.
St. Louis in Second
Maintaining its hold on second place the St. Louis Club racked up three points from the hapless NROTC unit, while the third-place California Club took four points from Youngstown via forfeit, to creep within one point of the Saints. Bob Dougherty and Lenny Lowe supplied a neat one-two punch for St. Louis, rolling 542 and 517, respectively.
Moving into sole possession of fourth place was the AIEE by virtue of their clean sweep over the last-place Commerce Forum. Ray Tritz paced the Engineers to four points with a 474 cluster.
Laying claim to fifth place in the circuit are both the ASME and the Italian Club with 38 points each. In last week’s rolloffs the Italians pinned a three point loss on the Minnesota Club, with the Mechanical Engineers picking up three points from Chicago. Leading the parade of keglers was Minnesota’s Tom Boemer with 522, while Dick Petrarca of the victorious Italians topped his club with 510. High for the ASME was Dave Price with a 487 three-game string.
Pitt Downs Buffalo
Returning to the Blue Loop where the third-place Buffalo Club found it rough going once again as they succumbed to the onrushing Pittsburgh Club in three matches out of four. Bob Jacobs recorded a 481 series to help the “Smokey City” lads move within one point of Buffalo, whose Jim O’Brien contributed the high series for both squads with 499.
In another rather important contest the slowly fading Civil Engineers managed to gain an even split with Toledo to retain its fifth-place status. Jack Joshinski displayed the best bowling of the two as he pounded the maples for a 498 series.
Glancz, Partner Hold < Table Tennis Match
By BOB FROLICHER
A show of table tennis wizardry and great skill was put on by Sandor Glancz and Jimmy McClure last Saturday night in the N.D. fieldhouse before a very enthused crowd. Both are world renowned players. Glancz of Hungary is the world’s double and European singles champion, while McClure has won five national and world titles and has represented the United Staates seven times in European championships. He also captained the 1951 American tour. Sandor Glancz has appeared in movie shorts and on television programs. The exhibition was sponsored by the N.D. Monogram Club.
Students Are Vanquished
McClure opened the two hour show by giving a brief explanation of the game and its origin. Glancz and he then engaged in a match. After this Bob Kelly of The Monogram Club put up a vain effort to subdue the European ace but fell before the skill and trick shots of his opponent. An eager contestant, Mike Higgins challenged McClure to a two game match. Even though he fell under the brilliance of McClure’s returns, he received a great round of applause for his fine
McCLURE (I.) AND RODGERS	GLANCZ (I.) AND JACOBY
Students play stars to display their skill
showing. The last contest in the first half of the show was a doubles match. Jack Rodgers and Jim Jacoby, two other Notre Dame students, split up with the stars in order to display their skill.
The finale of the evening was a best of three matches between Glancz and Jimmy McClure. After two very exciting first games, Mr. McClure pulled ahead to win 2-1.
By Jack Varley
Alumni to Observe Rockne Anniversary
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph County will hold a Communion Breakfast Sunday to commemorate the 21st anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. Mass will be held in Dillon Hall chapel with the breakfast following in the faculty room of the dining hall. Norman Barry, class of ’21, will be the principal speaker.
Barry played football under the famous coach from 1918-1920. He also coached Athletic Director Edward Krause in high school and was later an Illinois state representative.
It was 21 years ago this Monday, March 31, 1931, that the airplane carrying Rockne crashed into a hill near the town of Bazaar, Kansas, killing two pilots and the six passengers that included the famous coach. Rockne was on his way to Los Angeles, Calif., for an important business conference when the accident occurred.
Rockne’s record is still unchallenged in the annals of football. In his career" at Notre Dame he won three national championships, had five undefeated, untied seasons, won 105 games w with only 12 defeats and five ties in 13 seasons.
Chamber Concert to Feature Bach and Mozart Thursday
The second of the Chamber Music Concerts will be held Thursday at 8 p. m. in Washington Hall.
A horn quintet, featuring Charles Weaver, with the same instrumentalists above, will perform the famous horn quintet by Mozart. .
The program will consist of a flute quintet by Johann Christian Bach, son of Johann Sebastian Bach, to be played by Flutist Paul Krenke, accompanied by the Notre Dame String Quartet of Violinists Leo Michuda and Everette O’Bannon, Violist Robert Lindquist, and Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., cell-_ ist. Prof. Charles Biondo will direct, * and play the viola.
The importance of this obscure com-
Lujack Controversy
Last weekend two Chicago newspapers got into a slight tussle over an issue concerning Notre Dame. One paper said that quarterback Johnny Lujack of the Chicago Bears was going to let his contract run out and assume the duties of backfield coach at his alma mater, the job recently vacated when’ Bernie Crimmins went to Indiana.	.
The other paper came out with a complete denial stating that Lujack hadn’t been contacted with such an offer by anybody at Notre Dame and from what we can learn this is true. There is a very good chance that Lujack might have been considered as the man to take Crimmins’ place, but as far as being offered the job he hasn’t been. What he might do if he were is a good question. Chances are that he would turn it down. Despite his injuries he still has some time left in pro ball and has, as a sideline, a very lucrative insurance business which would probably make his salary as a Notre Dame assistant coach look rather slight.
Spring Practice
Purdue began spring football practice last Monday, but as yet it hasn’t definitely been established whether Notre Dame will or not. If they do, they will adhere to the 20-day practice ruling starting after Easter vacation and winding up about 30 days later. Presupposing there is an Old Timers’ Game it would probably be on May 10.
Odds ’n’ Ends	'
With football and basketball over, Jake Kline has found himself with some new candidates for his baseball squad. From the gridiron Jim Mutscheller and from the basketball court Dick Rosenthal, Jim Gibbons and Jack Reynolds are trying their talents on the diamond.
The Notre Dame fencing team with a nine and two record for the season has fox* the second straight year copped winning honors for a Notre Dame team. Coach Walter Langford’s swordsmen turned in an .818 winning percentage.
position lies in its influence on the style adopted by Mozart.
The feature work on the program will be a bassoon concerto by C. M. von Weber, with Andrew Fairlie, bassoonist, accompanied by William Mis-simer, pianist.
Science School Story Related Over WSBT
The College of Science is featured in a new series of educational programs heard ovex- radio station WSBT, South Bend, every Wednesday evening at 9:45. The series, called “Science Unlimited,” was inaugurated March 19 and will continue until April 30.
“Science Unlimited,” produced by the Department of Speech and directed by Jerome A. Fallon, Director of Radio at Notre Dame, is a series of seven programs featuring some department of education ox- research of the College of Science.-
Dean Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, sketched the history and research in the first of these programs. The othex* programs will explain in detail the history, research and education carried on by each individual department of the college. These include stories of the departments of chemistry, physics, geology, biology and mathematics. LOBUND, the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame, will also be featured in this series.
March 28, 1952
Breen Preliminaries Sla+ed to Open Apr. 7
For those students who are interested in exercising their skill in oratory, the time has come to start thinking of good topics, leafing through the latest joke hooks, looking up monstrous words and beginning the tedious task of memorizing.
Any such students will have a chance to test their prowess in the forthcoming Breen Oratorical Contest.
Prof. Leonard Sonuner of the Notre Dame Department of Speech announced this week that the preliminaries for the Breen Contest will be held April 7, at 4 p. m. in Room 327 Main building. All students who are interested in participating in this event are to register with Mr. Sommer in the Department of Speech office, Room 328 Main Building, by March 29.
Four contestants will be chosen from' the preliminaries to participate in the final contest, which will be staged sometime after Easter vacation.
The oration should approximate seven to nine minutes of speaking time on any subject selected by the contestant.
The Breen medal for oratory was founded by the Hon. William P. Breen of the class of 1877, and is awarded to any student who excells in oratory. No student may win the medal more than once.
Mr. Sommer also stated that registrations are now being taken for the Freshman Oratorical Contest.
This event is open to any student who has not yet completed two semes-ter« in his undergraduate work.
The nreliminaries for the contest will be held on April 18, while the final event will take place sometime in May. Delivery of this oration must not be less than eight minutes and not more than eleven.
Contestants are to choose their own subject, and a prize of S10 will be awarded to the winner.
Any contestant seeking assistance from a member of the faculty may consult Mr. Sommer in the Department of Speech office.
Frosh Change Plans for Frolic; Pick Benny Strong's Band
Freshman Frolic Co-chairmen Jim Barry and Joe O’Donnell have changed horses in midstream by announcing a new outfit to provide the music for their May 2 affair in the Rockne Memorial—Benny Strong.
The previously announced orchestra took advantage of the small print in its contract and declined to make an
16
appearance in the “Rock.” Strong is currently playing at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago.
“Nocturne Parisienne” has been chosen as the theme for the evening and the decorators expect to exploit the French-phrased title fully in their disguising of the “Rock.”
An Eifel tower, flowers a la carle, and a sidewalk cafe will be included in the surroundings of the dance floor.
Ticket sales will begin on or about April 3, but reservations are now being accepted, with 100 at present. Price for the week-end is §10.
Council Tax Proposal Goes Before Students Wednesday
A student opinion poll concerning the proposed dollar-per-semester tax to finance Student Council promotions will be conducted in all halls Wednesday evening. The tax, if ratified,
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"Take your hat *n goat and scr-r-ram!” Sheedy’s girl said. "1 won’t give you a date, but your hair sure gives me a billy-laugh! ” But-but-but-” he butted. Said she,“Haven't you herd of Wildroot Cream-Oil? For well-groomed hair it can’t be bleat! Non-
alcoholic. Contains Lanolin. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Relieves dryness. Removes loose dandruff.” So Sheedj' got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now every gal wants to horn in on his time! Better milk 29s? out of your roommate and hoof it to the nearest drug or toilet goods counter. Buy Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s favorite hair tonic. And ask for it on your hair next time you goat to your favorite barber shop. Then no other goat will get your nanny!
ofljlSo. Harris Hill Rd.,Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
ctocaf nmuua
OU
MHLDROOT
would go into effect next semester.
The 810,000 thus collected would be % beneficial to the student in the proposed 25-cent admission to dances, financial support of non-varsity sports, free hall parties, and delegations from various clubs to conferences and meetings.
Bids will also be considered in the next month for summer storage. Any student suggestion or bids may be submitted at any regular meeting or to any council member.
It has also been decided that Notre Dame will send a six-man Student Council delegation to a conference for the strengthening of relations between Indiana colleges at Purdue University April 4-5.
An appropriation of $300 was made for the Baroness Von Gutenberg welfare work now being carried on in Germany to help rehabilitate the population. The money will be used to " train an effective lay apostolate group to continue this work.

The Scholastic
Spring Juggler Features Poet Larson, Buckley Review
The Spring edition of the Juggler was published today and should be delivered to subscribers and rhe campus news stands by Monday. In addition tj the regular features, a poem by the distinguished New York poet, Raymond Larson, has been included. Mr. Larson, who has had several volumes of his poetry printed, consented to have one of his poems published in the Juggler.
Three essays have been included in this issue: Ed Goemer presents “Julian Huxley,” Ken Hoelscher has written on “Ignazio Silone,” and Joe Tunney discusses “Dom Luigi Sturzo.”
Two of the more outstanding book reviews are of William Buckley’s controversial “God and Man at Yale” and Graham Greene’s “End of the Affair.” In the fiction section are short stories by Jack Ward, Frank Doyle, Hugh Schadle, and Dave Wilmot.
Leo Cahalan replaces Bill Fraser as business manager of the Juggler this semester. Other new staff members are John Elson and Ed Goerner. The summer issue of the Juggler is scheduled for publication in May.
Grad Group Matches Price And Gurian on World State
As a result of the intense interest in the topic of world government aroused by publication in the Scholastic of articles by Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Dr. Charles C. Price, the Graduate Student Association has arranged a public discussion by these authorities on the general subject “"World Government and Peace.”
All undergraduate and graduate students are invited to this discussion to be held in the Law School Auditorium, Friday evening, April 4, at S p. m.
Each speaker will give a short address which will be followed by a period in which each will question the other. Questions will be invited from the audience.
Confirmation Services May 4
Tentative arrangements have been made for the reception of the Sacrament of Confirmation in the South Bend vicinity Sunday, May 4. Presiding at the services will be the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, auxiliary bishop of Fort Wayne.
All those who have not as yet been confirmed are urged to report immediately to Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., at 107 Cavanaugh Hall.
Last of Class Retreats Opens For Frosh Tomorrow Night
The annual series of Lenten retreats will come to a close this weekend with the Freshman Retreat starting tomorrow night. The retreat master will be the Rev. John Van Wol-vear, C.S.C.
The retreat will open tomorrow night with a conference at Cavanaugh chapel at 8 o’clock. Following the conference at 8:30, the Rosary will be recited at the Grotto. After the Rosary, confessions will be heard in the main church.
The Sunuday schedule will be Mass at 8 a. m. and a Holy Hour at 10:30 a. m. At 1:30 p. m. will be the closing conference, followed by the Outdoor Stations of the Cross at 2 p. m.
CANOE TRIPS
in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. At a price a student can afford. For free colored booklet and map, write: Bill Rom, Mgr., Canoe Country Outfitters, Box 717 C, Ely, Minn.
AQUINAS Library and
Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
LARGE SINGLE ROOM in private home close to University. Upper-classman or graduate student. Garage and partial kitchen privileges. S6.50 a week. Telephone 4-0756.
110 EAST LaSALLE
You are invited to accept a trial private lesson FREE
Pupil-Party-Dances
Every Thursday — FREE
to prove how quickly you can learn to dance at Arthur Murray's
Yes, we’re so sure we can teach you the secret to dancing popularity in almost no time that we are offering a trial lesson FREE. Thousands have become' sought-aftei’ partners through Arthur Murray’s exclusive Magic Step Method and you can, too! But, hurry... take advantage of this wonderful, short-time offer now. Come in to the studio and amaze your friends at your very next party by being an expert dancer.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing 120 E. WAYNE ST.	DIAL 2-33.39
March 28, 1952
17
By Bill Riley
The Stale of Education
Periodically, on trips away from school, I’ve run into hard-headed, but friendly men of affairs who have queried me on the state of my education. The conversation usually goes something like this:
“Well, son, so you're a senior in college?”
“Yes, that’s right.”
“What’re you taking?”
“Arts and Letters, majoring in English.”
“Oh!” Look of surprise, gratification. “Gonna teach, huh?”
“Uh, no.”
“Not gonna teach? Oh, going to write, then.” That last is not a question. It is a statement. It finishes the question. If you’re majoring in English, you’re either going to teach or write.
“No,” you say, “I’m not going to write.”
“Well, if you’re not going to teach and you’re not going to write, what’re you taking English for?”
“Well, you see, I’d sort of like to know something about literature. I’d sort of like to learn.”
“Yeah, yeah, but what’s it good for? What can you do with it? How’re you going to use it when you get out of school?”
——4^0——
The Easy Way Out
At this point, you have one of two ' choices. The easier way out goes like this:
“Well, I’m going to go to law school.”
“Oh,” says the businessman, his bewildered look clearing like the sun coming out from behind a cloud. “Oh, you’re going to law school. Oh, well, English is a fine background for law school. Yessir, a fine background for law school.”
But sometimes, in dream fantasies, I construct a conversation that goes like this:
“What can you do with it?”
Do You Get a Beer to Make a Study?
“Wait a minute, Mac. When you go into a bar to get a beer or two, do you do so because you want to make a study on the effects of lowproof alcohol on the human system, or because you enjoy a beer or two?”
“Why,” he says, “because I enjoy a beer or two.”
“In a way, you could say that it adds to the fullness of your life, right?”
“Yes,” he says, “I guess you could say so.”
“Okay,” you say, “now, when you get married, do you do so because you are interested in discovering the relative merits of the married and single life. Because you want to write a book on marriage problems? In fact, do you get married for any other reason except that you feel that you will live a fuller, happier life if you are?”
“Yeah,” he says, “You’re right. But what’s that got to do with Liberal Arts and English.”
Knowledge—That’s K-n-o-w-l-e-d-g-e
“It so happens, Mac,” you say, drumming your fingertip on his chest to hammer home the point, “It so happens that I’m pretty sure that knowledge, k-n-o-w-l-e-d-g-e, will help me to live a fuller, happier life. In fact, it’s got a better’ chance than beer, if not quite so good as marriage. That, Mac, is why I’m majoring in English. Got it?”
Of course, that’s only in dream fantasy. In real life, one doesn’t say that to Leaders of Business. If one did, one would very likely be adjudged to be a little unbalanced, or, at the very least, a wise college boy.
An Honors School?
In talking to a couple of pretty good students in the last week or so, I’ve heard some pretty good arguments for the establishment of something along the lines of an “Honors” school. There isn’t space in this week’s column to go into the problem fully, but I hope to develop it in a week or so, after a little more talk and a look at Honors school claims and results at other Universities. Just to introduce the idea, though, here is a little bit about it. It functions inside the College of Arts and Letters, for superior students. It is a less formalized, less mechanized type of education, geared more to the individual than is the present system. The idea behind it is that good students are not offered enough challenge
in the general curriculum, since it is set up for the average. Those who are plumping for it hold that it would have several advantages that the present system does not.	|
( Individual Attention	and	।
Greater Interest	‘
In the first place,	the student would	,
be able to learn more in a shorter time, more easily, since he would not 1 be held to the pace of the entire group. In the second place, he would : get individual attention, and guidance by the outstanding members of the faculty, and in all probability, his in- I terest in the work he was doing would be increased. Then, too, his contribution would probably be greater, since j he would be able to devote more time	;
to the work for which his guide	1
thought him best qualified.
More on this later.
--------EUROPE-^ EM------95M
,	(inci. steamer)
Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by America’s largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Less Our 19lh Year
See your local repreteut-•live or write to:
f H4E RE	STUBERTS INTERHATIOMAL
W ■ ■	TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
----545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 17* MU 7-0744
Nationally Advertised WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ GUARANTEED

126 - NO MICHIGAN ■
e
18
The Scholastic
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
Lowest air fares ever
CHICAGO $
SAN FRANCISCO:
GUAYAQUIL
LOS LNGELE^
JANBRO
SANTIAGO
MONTEVIDCO .’BUENOS ASB
MEXIC OTY
GUATEMALA OTY
PANAMA
MIAMI
Ideal for students. After 12 days you can bring in $500 worth of purchases duty free, only •610 from Miami
David Kempler FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dmnc students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
NEW YORK
ORLEANS >
SAN JUAN*
111 South Michigan Streel
takes you ’round South America in 30 days with stops at Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama.
S3OO from Miami
to Lima, Peru on a 17-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
*555 from Miami
to Rio de Janeiro on a 30-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
FORT OF SPAIN
IWO with
Yes—from May through October—all of lovely, lively South South America is within your vacation reach, both in travel time and travel cost.
ways to go. 1. Fly the west coast Pan American-Grace Airways to
Panama (over the route of Pan American World Airways) then on south to Quito, Lima, Santiago and Buenos Aires.
2. Fly the east coast with Pan American World Airways. Stop at Puerto Rico, Trinidad—fly on to Rio, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, “B.A." Go one way—return the otherl
These special fares apply to Tourist Service with giant 4-engine planes.
MEW LOW AIR TOURIST RATES
Effective May lit.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO
SHANNON om> $433.80
LONDON* Only 486.00
PARIS Only 522.00
FRANKFORT Only 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon Itares subiect to government approval, Sood low-cost meals available on otaneA
• KLM Koyal Dutch Airlines
| 572 Fifth Avenue. New York 19 N y t	Please send	full	information	on	new	■
I	KLM Air Tourist	Rates	to	Europe	■
1	NAMB .......................... I
|	ADDRESS	................... J
L___________
Pan American is U. S. Sales Agent for Panagra PANAGRA and PAN AMERICAN PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
-..........FREE! SEND FOR DETAILS------------------------------------
Pan American-Grace Airways, Dept. 38
Chrysler Building, New York 17, N. Y.
Please mail me complete information about these new excursion fares.
Name............................................................
Address.......................................................-
City......................................... State-------------
March 28, 1952
19




« "CHESTERFIELDS ARE PROVIDED
UNlIcU
QW EXCLUSIVELY on cruiser flights to Hono


, <X’t’
TO CHESTERFIELD
our passengers prefer Chesterfields
o n
VICE PRESIDENT, UNITED AIR UNES
Wherever you go
£
3i
■*
■ DALE ROBERTSON ; gets his Chesterfields fro'rri Stewardess Audrey JoneJ;
Wit
Copyright 1952, Uggctt & Myus ToiaccQ^Co*


LYDIA BAILEY \
A 20th Century-Fox Production
Color by Technicolor. -AT



WGARETTES
& V
UGGErrt e-'YEas tobacco co
or MILDNESS- plus ____________
No Unpleasant After-taste* V——
•from the report of a well-known research organization
.. AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT!
