Tula book ia not to be taken from the Library
The Notre Danie
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY	NOVEMBER 24
$2.60 THE YEAR	Nineteen Thirty-three
YOU’LL never regret seeing the LINNET cast of 100 Singers, Dancers, Entertainers in a show truly representative of Notre Dame life.
Chorus of “Marching- Along Together’’ Formations and military steps will be featured in this number.
ffC^hanks for the Sfrlow”
Directed by
REV. CHARLES McALLISTER, C.S.C.
and
PROF. JOSEPH J. CASASANTA
December 10, 11, 12	25 cents
Proceeds to ST. VINCENT De PAUL
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ^F|	I	|	|
x I he Notre Dame scholastic
of Notre Dame. Address man-	Tr, ,	T_.	__
uscripts to editor, ns Sorin L)tsce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus
Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.	FOUNDED 186S
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns.... Mitchell C. Tackley
....Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN--------------------JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors THOMAS J. STRITCH.________-------------------The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK._____________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.________________________Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE............. EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____ NICHOLAS J. CONNOR__________
............Sports Editors
...HOWARD T. WALDRON
News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD________________________News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR-------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCL---------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ-----------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL--------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY_____________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES________________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
November 24, 1933
No. 9
NOTRE DAME LOSES A FRIEND
In the death last week of Mr. Edward N. Hurley, the University suffered a great and a distinct loss. Mr. Hurley had long been a staunch friend of Notre Dame; he had given generously, unhesitatingly, to Notre Dame of his time, and energy, and ability, and his means. He had served long on the Board of Trustees; he had given the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce Building, the first gift of a building ever made to Notre Dame; he had been unceasing in his efforts to further the school’s welfare.
But Notre Dame lost in another sense as well, and with Notre Dame, the worlds of business, finance, and Catholic society Mr. Hurley was essentially a Catholic gentleman. In the world of business competition, he stood as an unusual success. But a study of his path to that success reveals him even a greater man. He never forgot or ignored the existence of others who deserved justice, of Christian business ethics, of a moral sense of right and wrong, of a sense of proportion between means and their end. His Catholicity was not a cloak, nor a false front, but a deep-rooted part of the man.
When such an individual is called by death, the world is distinctly poorer: comparatively so few men of his type are in evidence. Because Notre Dame and Notre Dame men are parts of that world, their sense of personal loss is deepened.
The Scholastic extends to Mr. Hurley’s bereaved family the most heartfelt sympathy from all of Notre Dame.
•
FOOTBALL FINALE
Tomorrow afternoon the football squad of the University of Southern California will meet Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Stadium.
It is, in a way, peculiarly significant that the final home game of the Notre Dame season should be played against the team from U.S.C. Unquestionably the series between these two teams is the high point of a certain type of athletic rivalry: inter-sectionalism. Annually the Trojan-Irish game is the climax of inter-sectional play during the season. That such a climax should be reached in the season’s final game in Notre Dame Stadium is indeed a happy occurrence.
November 2 4, 19 3 3
Notre Dame has the warmest of greetings and the deepest admiration for its visitors from Los Angeles, both as football players, and as fellow collegians. There is a certain atmosphere surrounding a game between teams so far separated geographically, called color for want of a better term, that the Notre Dame student body is glad to have a share in it.
On our own side of the picture, there is the annual note of sentiment connected with the final home game. Several Notre Dame football players will be playing their last game here. Naturally the student body is sorry to see them complete their careers; that feeling is a justifiable one for the seniors on the football squad have been consistently worthy of admiration personally as w’ell as in their playing roles.
Tomorrow’s situation, then, is a rare one: the most colorful of teams, a game that should be of the best, and a tinge of sincere sentiment for a group of Notre Dame men making their last football appearance before the student body.
FALLING BAROMETER
If observations made in other years are at all accurate as a criterion, campus affairs are about to enter on a prolonged period of lethargy. The close of the football season is not by any means the entire cause of that condition, though it is often given as such.
It seems that at this stage of the year, the first rush of enthusiasm for all sorts of activity, scholastic work included, generally wears itself out. The usual reaction is a general letdown. Pleas for cooperating on the part of officers in campus organizations, rumblings of warning concerning semester examinations, are alike unheeded, if heard at all. The average John Campus struggles to two or three meals a day, writes a few letters, and spends the rest of his time wondering what he is going to do at some time in the future, always far enough in the future that no immediate energy is required.
The spell of over-emphasized leisure that starts about this time usually carries over for a week or ten days in January when pre-semester worry begins to put furrows in the brows and candles on the desks. The second cycle of inactivity usually swings around in the middle of February: second semester enthusiasm is much shorter lived than the fall-term brand.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Philosophy
Did it have no other virtues, Scrip would at least qualify for the post of major prophet for the year in that it keeps you from four issues of The Scholastic. We have enjoyed the respite too, thank you. But we rather need this paragraph to patch up the continuity, if you were aware of any. If you weren’t, let us remind you that the last issue of this sheet contained a paragraph about Hallowe’en.
Since that time much water has, no doubt, flowed under the bridge, but after our usual fashion we’ve been flowing with it, and not on the bridge watching it go by. The frantic business of closing up the quarter, the Purdue and Northwestern week-ends and other such have rather torn us loose from our definite point of view. Hence the large, expansive tone of this eruption.
But tomorrow most of the seniors see a Notre Dame football team for the last time, as students. Football bulks large as an interst, not a passion, here: and on the whole we’re rather proud of it. This year’s team has been as peculiar as it can be. It has outplayed every team it has met, save Pittsburgh, yet has won but two games. The situation is amusing, to say the least; we’ve been in the lap of the gods all year, and each time they’ve dropped us. Of course, we could supply an answer in terms of trends and large philosophical tendencies, but it wouldn’t mean anything. The point is, why supply one? We’re not trying to say that the game’s the thing, win or lose, or any such twaddle. All we do say is that it has been surprising to us and to the whole student body that it hasn’t mattered nearly as much as we thought it would.
So, with a nod of welcome to Southern California, and of farewell to Notre Dame, this: it’s been rather fun.
Saga,
We may be taking in too much territory in roving back as far as the Purdue game week-end, but the strange adventures of two Chicago alumni who came down for the battle are too good to be omitted. These devoted followers of the football grail left Chicago Friday evening. They drove very carefully, as the roads were slippery, hoping only to get into South Bend before midnight.
They zoomed along without mis
hap until they struck the outskirts of South Bend, along about 12:30 Saturday morning. And then the particular ominous sign of the zodiac they must have been born under began to function with a vengeance. They skidded into a fire-plug and smashed one side of the car pretty thoroughly. Catching their respective breaths they backed out into the street, and at the same time they were hit by another car which bunged up the other side of their bus.
As the driver of the car that hit them was somewhat inebriated, and didn’t catch the general trend of the workings of fate, our boys called the police. A couple of the guardians of the law dashed up in a squad car, and just as they arrived near the scene of the accident they were biffed by still another car right soundly. Naturally they decided to put the official house in order before attending to perfect strangers, and our boys, pretty sore by that time, abandoned the car and came out here.
The garage man said the next morning that he couldn’t do anything with the car, but there was a fighting chance of their getting it back to Chicago •where it could be taken care of. So our young men proceeded to the enjoyment of their week-end. Well, we lost the game, and one of the visitors lost half a buck in the stadium, a buck and a half in the Oliver, and a new hat God knows where.
Nothing daunted they started back Sunday evening with the same car, whose front wheels wobbled and whose tires were threadbare. Still, it went all right until they got to Michigan City, where they had a blow-out. They jacked up the wheel, but their jack broke. Walked two miles to get another one which also broke. Finally they got one to work, only to discover that their spare had no air in it, and they didn’t have a pump. They took the tire to the gas station, and got it fixed, and in three hours from the time of the blow-out they were on their way again.
They got as far as Indiana Harbor before they had another blowout, but they didn’t bother fixing this one. They just went to a hotel for the rest of the night, and caught a South Shore into Chicago for work next morning. The last we heard from them the car was still at Indiana Harbor, and they didn’t care if they ever saw it again.
Husing, Arch Ward On Big Pep Program
By Thomas Proctor
Blue and gold pennants, crimson and cream streamers, a large Trojan horse, plenty of cheers and band music, and an unequaled speaking program await students and friends of Notre Dame tonight at the great Southern California vs. Notre Dame game rally in the gymnasium. Ted Husing, famed Columbia Broadcasting Co. sports announcer, Arch Ward Chicago Tribune sports editor, Coach Heartley Anderson, R. E. Proctor, ’04, former Indiana state senator, Ray Brancheau, game captain, and James S. Kearns, Scholastic editor, have consented to address the rally and guarantee by their very presence an inspiring group of speeches.
James F. Reville, newly elected president of the Rally Committee and his secretary, Hugh T. Fitzgerald, have spared no effort during the past two weeks to arrange all details. Following supper at the regular time, students will follow the band to the gymnasium where the rally begins about 6:40 p. m. Red and green flares and firework pieces situated at various places will add necessary color and light. The gymnasium and individual halls have been decorated with campo-board and long pennants painted on sign-board. Over the speakers’ platform has been placed a large picture of Anderson with stadium streamers suspended to form a setting or background for the speakers.
Cheers led by James Effinger and music by Professor Casasanta’s band, whose first selection will be “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” will precede the speaking program.
Students who aided the committee president and the adviser, Rev. C. A. McAllister, C.S.C., are: Speakers committee — Tom Proctor, Franklyn Hochreiter, Michael Wiedl, Vincent Gorman; signs, Richard Baker; gym decorations—Charles Litty; bulletins —Robert Ervin and Dan McLaughlin; coats—Frank McGahren; fireworks and flares—Fred Carideo; and hall decorations — Clifford Dudley, Larry Sibr, Harold Miller, Howard Waldron, Robert Nachtwey, Andrew Curtin, Leonard Cacciatore, John Winegardner, Ralph Cardinal, Thomas Gammino, Robert Wiele, John Pav-lick, August Petrillo.
Academy of Science
The first open meeting of the year will be held by the Academy of Science next Monday night, November 27, when Dr. Cornelius J. Hagerty, junior pathologist of St. Luke’s hospital in Chicago, will speak on “Leukocytes.”
The Scholastic
Two
Calendar
Friday, November 24
Pep meeting, gym, 6:30 p. m.; Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial board, Ave Maria building, 8:00 p.m., .News and Sports staff, 8:15 p.m.; “Through the Centuries,” a Catholic movie, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Symphony Orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Saturday, November 25
Varsity football, Notre Dame vs. Southern California, Notre Dame Stadium, 1:30 p. m.; Movie, “State Fair” with Janet Gaynor and Will Kogers, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; football dance, K. of C. ballroom, 9:00-11:30 p. m.
Sunday, November 26
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for Freshmen and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons Hall, 7:30 p. m.
Monday, November 27
Collegians Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, November 28
Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.; Wranglers Meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, November 29
Collegians Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Movie, “Pilgrimage” with Henrietta Crosmen, Washington Hall 6:30 and 8:15 p.m.
Thursday, November 30
Football, Reserves vs. St. Bonaventura College at Allegheny, N. Y. Thanksgiving Day, no classes.
LAW NOTES
Dean Thomas Konop of the Law school spoke Thursday night to the members of the Beth-El group at the Temple Beth-El in South Bend. His topic was, “Is the Creature Destroying its Creator?” The thesis of the talk was that corporations which are created by our legislative branch of government are destroying the government itself.
Mr. Thomas F. Lee, famous banker, explorer and lecturer, who spoke before the Knife and Fork club in South Bend Wednesday, was the guest of Dean Konop at lunch in the faculty dining hall. Mr. Lee was very much impressed with the educational faculties at Notre Dame.
___1_____________
NOTICE
Students must be prepared to show their dining hall cards at the noon and evening meals tomorrow, Saturday.
N o v e m b e r 2 4, 19 3 3
IRISH BATTLE TROJANS IN HOME FINAL TOMORROW
Itoto---
Beginning with this issue, The Scholastic will present weekly to its readers a complete pictorial review of events that happen in the college world in Collegiate Digest, a rotogravure section that is included with your subscription to The Scholastic.
Collegiate Digest will present each week a complete review of events that happen in the collegiate world, and will keep the readers of The Scholastic in touch with the important events that happen on every campus in the United States.
Father O’Hara Gives Talk To Chamber of Commerce
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, addressed the South Bend Chamber of Commerce last Monday. It is the first time in ten years that Father O’Hara has spoken to the South Bend Chamber. His speech was in defense of the N. R. A. against its critics.
In regard to a statement made by a prominent business man against the N. R. A. Father O’Hara said: “Perhaps there is not money enough nor man power enough in this country to put a straight-jacket on business, but if business attempts to follow the mad course it was following in 1929 there should be moral power enough in the United States to put it into a straight-jacket and control it as a mad man would be controlled. American business need not be sovietized. The American people should tolerate no measures that would kill off private initiative and make an automaton out of either capital or labor, but if business insists on the suicidal course it was pursuing in 1929, there must be invoked a power that will free business from its own defiance of economic and moral laws.”
CONTENTS
Editorials .................. 1
“The Week” ................   2
Southern California Game .... 3
Peace Conference............. 4
E. H. Hurley ...............  5
“News of the Week”........... 7
“Man About the Campus”....... 8
S. A. C. Dance .............. 9
“College Parade”............ 10
Northwestern Game .......... 11
Howard Jones Writes ........ 11
“Introducing” .............. 12
Basketball ................. 13
“So They Say”............... 14
“Splinters from the Press Box”.... 15
GAME STARTS AT 1:30
By Howard T. Waldron
Back in ancient times the classical writers wrote the story of a great rivalry between the Greeks and the men of Troy. Year after year they
Captain Ray Brancheau Out for the wooden horse.
fought great battles until the Trojan empire was destroyed through the famous ruse of the wooden horse. Throughout the succeeding year the Trojans lay peaceful under the dust of ages.
Tomorrow a revived Trojan host resumes its annual march on the football field against a foe of eight years standing—the Irish of Notre Dame. This modem football warfare has seen the humbling of the Southern California team no less than four times, but three of these struggles were won by the narrow margin of one point.
The Hector of this modem Trojan force is a blond dynamo named Warburton. Irvine Cotton Warburton to be exact, and what he lacks in height is made up in speed and brains. Perfect-play Warburton would be a better title for this 148 pound flash, because he makes every play the threat of a perfect goal-line dash. He can run, he can pass, and punt, but his greatest forte is returning punts. Opposing quarterbacks endeavor to keep the ball from being kicked to Warburton, because of his deceptive action in bringing them back.
Less publicized and perhaps not as flashy a player as Warburton is Homer Griffith, the steadiest back on the Southern Cal team. Griffith plays both quarterback and fullback and his (Continued on Page 20)
Three
SIXTEEN SPEAKERS TAKE PART IN ALL DAY PEACE MEET HERE
R.R. Rate For Army Trip Set At $22.35
LAW AUDITORIUM FILLED
By Paul Doyle
On Sunday, November 19th, the University of Notre Dame was host to sixteen speakers representing Catholic colleges and societies who discussed topics related to peace at
Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C. Chairman of morning session.
the one-day regional meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace. This was the first time that the annual assembly had met on the campus.
The day-long convocation opened at 9:00 o’clock Sunday morning with Mass in the Sacred Heart Church. His Excellency, Bishop John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, Indiana, celebrated the Mass, and delivered the sermon in which he scored nationalism and advocated a turning to God for deliverance from war and the present economic ills of the world.
After Mass the first formal session of the day was held in the auditorium of the Law Building. Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Economic’s department, presided at the meeting. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., delivered the first address on “Peace and the College Curriculum.” After Father Miltner, the following speakers presented a symposium on “Education and Peace”: Reverend Joseph Reiner, ' S.J., of Loyola University, Chicago;
Miss Marion McCandless, representative of the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae and the National Council of Catholic Women, of St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame; The Right Reverend Msgr. J. M. Wolfe, of Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa; Sister M. Benedictus, of St. Mary’s College; Miss Vir-inia O’Brien, of South Bend, who spoke in the absence of Dorothy Willman; and Doctor Jeremiah Sullivan, of the school of journalism, Marquette University.
The part of Education in develop-
Spanish Club Meeting Held Thursday Evening
A feature of the Spanish Club meeting, held last night in the Carroll Rec., was a violin solo by A. J. Den-off, of South Bend. Mr. Denoff is the brother of one of the club members.
The meeting was opened with the usual business discussion, and then the members heard talks by John Egan and Carlos deLandero. Egan had as his subject “The Immaculate Conception,” while De Landero spoke on “The Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe,” which in Spain corresponds to our Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Both talks were given in Spanish.
Approximately forty members were present and it was announced that the next meeting will take place on Dec. 7.
ing proper mental attitude toward peace, the contribution of organizations to the progress of world amity, and the need of a mass movement in behalf of peace were among the items discussed during the morning session.
In the afternoon meeting, nationalism and its selfish principles were bitterly denounced. God and not the state was shown to be the Prime Object of a people’s patriotism. President Roosevelt’s adoption of an isolation policy was looked upon as presenting a serious obstacle in the path of world peace. Pleas were voiced for world disarmament as a necessary step in acquiring international amity.
Hon. William M. Cain presided as chairman of the afternoon discussions, which were also held in the Law Building. Those who spoke in the afternoon and their topics: Rev. R. A. McGowan, of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, “Europe—Its Problems and Efforts for Peace”; Rev. Frederic Siedenburg, S.J., dean of the University of Detroit, “Disarmament”; Dr. Francis E. McMahon, profesor of philosophy at Notre Dame, “Nationalism”; Charles P. O’Donnell, head of the history department at DePaul University, “Peace Treaties”; Very Rev. J. W. R. Maguire, C.S.V., president of St. Viator’s Colege, “The New World Position of the United States”; Rev. Francis A. Mullin, of Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa, “Peace Policies in the United States”; and Dr. Robert C. .Pollock, of the philosophy department at Notre Dame, “The Catholic Students’ Responsibility Today.”
The combined efforts of the Metropolitan, the New Jersey, and the Connecticut clubs have secured a reduced railroad rate for those students desiring to attend the Army game. The fare is $22.35, round trip.
The itinerary for the journey is as follows: Going: leave N. Y. C. station, South Bend, on Wednesday, November 29 at 12:40 p. m.; arrive Grand Central station, New York City, on Thursday at 8:00 a. m. Return: Leave Grand Central station, New York City, Sunday, December 3 at 11:00 a. m.; arrive N. Y. C. station, South Bend, Monday, December 4, at 6:25 a. m.
Tickets are on sale now and may be obtained from James J. Dunnigan, president of the Metropolitan club, at 104 Walsh; Robert J. McDonough, president of the New Jersey club, at 335 Walsh; and George O’Brien, president of the Connecticut club, at 332 Walsh.
Upon presentation of a railroad ticket and the A. A. book at the athletic office, each student may purchase one ticket to the Army game. Tickets are priced at $4.40 and will go on sale Tuesday, November 28, at 12:30 p. m.
Additional information may be obtained from bulletins posted in the halls and from the officers of the various clubs.
Baldinger Selected For Pharmacy Board Post
Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy Department, was selected last week as a member of the Pharmacy and Queries Committee of the Indiana Pharmaceutical Association.
The duties of this group are to work in cooperation with the Associa-ation and the Indiana State Board ofPharmacy in formulating questions for the State Board examinations. This appointmentw as made by Mr. A. E. Smith, president of the association.
Give Mailing Rates
Mailing rates for major University publications were announced this week in answer to a number of requests for such information. The following postage rates are for single copies only, mailed unsealed:
Scholastic ..................$0.02
Juggler ........................03
Scrip ..........................02
Football programs ..............04
The Religious Bulletin is not to be mailed with these publications, as mimeographed material comes under a different classification.
Four
The Scholastic
Many Popular Hits In “Thanks For Blow”
NOTRE DAME LOSES GREAT FRIEND IN DEATH OF EDWARD N. HURLEY
By The Publicity Director
The Washington Hall lot is seething with excitement these days. The Linnets are on location for their second major presentation, “Thanks For The Blow,” a snappy, up-to-the-minute music and dance show composed entirely of local talent. The dates of the show have been moved up one week and are now set for Dec. 10, 11, and 12.
Music Hall and the Washington stage are cluttered each evening with the some one hundred participants of the presentation. In one corner a group of tap dancers under the direction of John Dasso are rehearsing for the “Give Me a Roll on the Drum” number. John Donovan and a group of 25 are busy in another corner practicing tricky dance steps for the “Thanks for the Blow” number.
Militaristic in nature is the “Marching Along” chorus. The singers will be attired in true military style and are being led and drilled through their formations by Charlie Mahar, who has had two year’s experience at West Point Military Academy.
Soloists Featured
John Henry, Glee Club soloist, has been selected as master of ceremonies for the show. George M. Menard, noted for his splendid performance in the “Vagabonds” will be featured in “I’m a Lover of Paree,” a study in French atmosphere. Justin Tompkins will be heard in the rendition of the theme song of the production, “Thanks For the Blow.” Ned Quinn, possessor of a rich baritone voice, will be starred in the “I want to Ring Bells” chorus. 'John Egan, also of “Vagabonds” fame, will sing the lead in “Rolling on Your Roller Skates,” one of the most unusual presentations of the show. John Ryan, perhaps the best known of the campus singers, will be featured in “One Alone” and “Marching Along Together.”
On the production staff aiding Father McAllister and Professor Cas-asanta are Leo Hanlon, in charge of lighting; Bill McDonald, property master; Bill Ellis, posters; Vince Gorman, business manager; Michael Wiedl, costume and floor manage; M. Tackley, publicity director and in charge of make-up. Harold Miller, John Ley, and Charlie Karnasiewicz, will assist in make-up.
Sympathy
The staff of the Scholastic extends its condolences to Professor Paul I. Fenlon whose mother passed away Sunday.
St. Vincent De Paul To Begin Old Clothes Drive
St. Vincent De Paul Society, at their meeting Wednesday night in Brownson Hall Recreation room, decided to concentrate, for a time, principally on collecting old clothes.
Emphasis on discarded clothes was made to conform with a planned program of distribution among the poor before the holidays. To date some 450 used magazines collected from the students have been passed out through the efforts of the Society.
George Belting, rooming in 346 Sorin Hall, has charge of the concerted drive that will take place in all the halls. Members of the Society have been appointed to collect in their halls are Brownson and Carroll, Carmi Belmont; Sorin and Morrissey, Frank McGahren, Vincent McAloon, and Dan Phaneuf; Lyons, John Desmond, Edward Owens; Corby, John Petrillo, John Pavlick, and George Martinet; Howard, Art Gregory, and Charles Reilly; and in Badin, Charles Hill.
Bulletins printed by the University will be placed in all the halls of the campus, urging the students to cooperate with this movement.
In addition to this, members of the Society are selling tickets for the Linnet show, “Thanks For The Blow.” Receipts from the play will be used for charitable purposes.
1,500 “Juggler” Copies Sold; Ranks High in World Market
Since the advent of the second appearance of the Juggler two weeks ago today there have been nearly fifteen hundred copies sold. This is an increase over the number of sales of the first issue.
Promises of the staff to edit the best Notre Dame humorous magazine possible have in no small measure been fulfilled. Reports reaching the editor from various exchange sources have been very favorable, and it appears that the Juggler will rank high in the rating of like college publications.
There remains one more issue, namely the Christmas number, before vacations starts. Students in doubt as to the selection of a suitable season greeting card should consider the Juggler before making a final choice.	'
Contributions to the magazine must be left with the editor, or at the Publications Office, on or before Monday, November 27, the deadline.
FUNERAL LAST FRIDAY
Edward N. Hurley, benefactor of Notre Dame, died in Chicago the evening of November 14. His death was due to leukemia, an abnormal condition of the blood, and to pneumonia.
Edward N. Hurley R. I. P.
The funeral rites were conducted in Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago, Friday morning, November 17. Right Reverend Thomas V. Shannon celebrated the Mass and delivered the sermon.
Representing the University of Notre Dame at the funeral services were Messrs. Roy McKenna of Burlington, Wisconsin, Miles O’Brien of South Bend, Indiana, Byron Kanaley and Edward Doyle, both of Chicago, trustees of the University, the vicepresident and acting president of the University, Revernd John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., the Comptroller, Mr. F. W. Lloyd, and the Dean of the College of Commerce, Mr. E. J. McCarthy. James Moscow, president of the senior class, George Shields, chairman of the S. A. C., and William McCormick, senior in the College of Commerce, represented the student body at the funeral.
Mr. Hurley was a prominent and important figure in many circles. He had but recently returned from Washington, D. C. where he had been acting as a government official, and he had been for some time past a financier and busines man if repute. He was a graduate of Notre
(Contniued on Page 7)
November 2 4, 19 3 3
Five
N. U. And Michigan On Debate Schedule
K. of C. News
A. B. Preregistration Begins Next Friday
Two debates, one with Northwestern University in Evanston on Dec. 6, and the other with Michigan University in Ann Arbor on Dec. 15, have

L
William J. Coyne Coaches Debate Squad
been scheduled by Coach W. J. Coyne for the Notre Dame affirmative team. There is a possibility that a third affirmative debate will be held with Minnesota Unviersity on Dec. 16 at Notre Dame.
From a group of six men will be chosen the three to argue the question or proposition that the present powers of President F. D. Roosevelt should be made a permanent part of the Federal Constitution by amendment. These six men who have been developing an affirmative case for the past two weeks are Franklyn Hochreiter, John Heywood, William Miller, Gene Maloy, Tom Proctor, and Robert Schmelzle.
Though all arrangements are not definite Mr. Coyne says that a judge’s decision will probably be given on the debate with Michigan University.
General Electric Head Interviews N. D. Engineers
On Wednesday, Nov. 1, Mr. L. H. Means, of the personnel department of General Electric Company, interviewed engineers, as part of General Electric company’s effort to give employment to as many new college graduates as possible. In a talk to the men before the interviews, Mr. Means remarked that this is the first time in three years that his company has planned to take on men fresh from college.
In explaining the type of work new men in General Electric Company do, he said that they are given a year’s training course in practical work in all departments of the company, and during this time they test apparatus of all kinds before it leaves the factory. After this training period, if the men are not found wanting, they are given responsible positions in the department whose work they find most interesting.
Six
By Ray Martin
Nineteen candidates were conducted through the intricacies of the first-degree exemplification at the regular council meeting two weeks ago. The ceremony was one of the most impressive ever held on the campus, and the degree team was congratulated by Father Reynolds and District Deputy Ribordy. State Secretary Dorsey gave a short talk to the candidates, outlining for them the advantages of Columbianism they are receiving by joining here on the campus, and urging them to secure for their friends the same advantages tendered them. Following these talks, the Dujarie choir rendered five selections which were greatly enjoyed by everyone, especially the beautiful “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” with Brother Canisius as soloist.
There will be another first-degree initiation held December 4, and those candidates who have* not had their physical examinations will please do so before that time, in order that failure to do so will not prevent them from taking their second and third degrees, December 10.
The candidates conducted through the first-degree were: John Anderson, John Busichio, David Campbell, John Campbell, Francis Collins, John Fogarty, William Foley, Robert Grogan, Joseph Kelly, Edward Krebs, Carlo Marinello, William Martin, Frank Matavovski, William Nardone, Richard Newcomb, Francis Poelk-ing, Walter Sheehan, George Thomas, and Clifford Sausville.
Since the first meeting of the bowling league last week, the system of play has been changed and improved. There will now be teams of six men each, headed by a captain. If all six men can bowl, some Thursday night that team will have the privilege of dropping out its lowest score, as a premium for perfect attendance. The captain is to see that his team comes every Thursday. Individual scores will be kept as before. Notices will be sent out each week to the competing teams.
The Grand Knights will announce the chairman of the Knights of Columbus Formal, and the sub-chairman, through this column in the next issue.
Meeting Monday.
French Club Meet
The French Club meeting scheduled for last Monday night was postponed. One will be held this coming Monday night at 7:45 in Carroll Rec.
The attention of all students in the College of Arts and Letters is directed to the fact that pre-registra-tion for second semester classes will begin on Friday, December 1st, and will close on December the 17th.
Students who fail to pre-register during this period will be treated as late registrants. Schedules of all elective classes in the Liberal Arts College are now available and may be had upon request at the office of the Dean.
Together with, the announcement comes a word of admonition. The students are reminded not to make their choice of electives on the spur of the moment, but only after due reflection and consultation with the head of the department in which they are majoring. Prompt attention to this matter will avert confusion and inconvenience later on.
In the Department of Philosophy two elective courses not mentioned in the catalogue are being offered: Philosophy 124, Philosophy of Psychology, will be given by Dr. Sigmar; course numbered 110 in the catalogue will be discontinued and in its place will be taught Philosophy 126, Special Questions in Metaphysics. The latter course will be under the direction of Dr. McMahon.
MILITARY NOTES
Salvatore Joseph Costa of Morrissey Hall has just received his commission as a Second Lieutenant in the U. S. Infantry Reserve.
The Reserve Officers club held a meeting in Carroll Hall recreation room last Thursday night. Several talks were given by members. Plans were made to obtain Major Bondy of the Regular Army, and the Executive Officer of the South Bend Military District as the speaker for their next meeting. It was also tentatively decided to show movies early in December of the Army Medical Service taken under simulated wartime conditions.
At the Reserve Officers Mess held last Friday - night, two Notre Dame men presented papers. Judge Elmer Peak of the class of 1912, who was an artillery officer during the War, presented a paper: “Some Observations on the Military Situation in Europe.” Mr. Robert Riordan, Registrar, and a captain in the Artillery Reserve presented a paper: “The 155 Millimeter Gun Regiment and Bat-tallion.”
The Scholastic
First “Catalyzer” Out; C. Schwarz Is Editor
News of the Week By George Leyes
John Conley Elected Press Club President
A long and comprehensive survey of “Dipole Moments” is the feature article in the October and first issue of Catalyzer, monthly magazine of the University Chemists Club. As explained by the new editor, C. J. Schwarz, senior in Chemical Engineering, this article is by an alumnus of the institution, M. M. Otto, Ph.D., ’33, who is carrying on research in Dipole Moments here at Chemistry Hall.
“Dipole Moments” Explained
In this article Dr. Otto gives information of great value to students of chemical engineering. Beginning with an explanation of “dipole” as, “if two electric charges, equal but opposite in sign, are separated by a very small distance, the magnitude of the dipole is measured by the product of one of the charges by the distance between them,” Dr. Otto undertakes to prove the thesis that distribution of electric charges in a molecule can be determined by the means just mentioned, a method particularly effective in the case of aromatic compounds. The writer points out that “the structures of some of the aromatic compounds have been determined in this manner by treating the dipoles as vector quantities.”
Besides '’this article, an editorial, club notes, personals, and an article concerning recent honors won by the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Professor of Organic Chemistry, are component parts of the Catalyzer.
The other members of the staff are, H. L. Goebel, associate editor; J. W. Kroeger, assistant editor; and R. A. Lux, news editor.
E. N. HURLEY DIES
(Continued from Page 5)
Dame, and in spite of the press of other duties never forgot that fact. He was the donor of the Commerce Building and was a member of the Board of Trustees from the incep-■ tion of that body until his death. He was the Laetare Medalist in 1926 as the foremost Catholic layman in America.
Notre Dame loses not only a generous benefactor but a willing and true friend. And in his passing she mourns.
NOTICE!
The last day for taking senior pictures for the 1934 Dome is Wednesday, November 29. This leaves three days for the seniors who have not yet had their pictures taken.
Opposition to the government’s financial policies culminated this week in a heavy attack by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, representing the organized business of the country, who demanded the restoration of the gold standard with a fixed dollar value.
Many sound money advocates who have been railing the administration for the past few months are expecting to see definite stabilization soon with‘the gold dollar revaluated and pegged at around 55 cents. After weeks of fancy fluctuation this should come as a relief to jittery business and industry and should tend to restore confidence in the treasury.
The effect of stablization should prove a boon to business from a psychological point of view in that people will have an incentive to buy from a motive of confidence rather than one of fear.
Economists point out that through the revaluation of the gold dollar to around 55 cents and the increase in the value of gold, at least a two billion dollar profit will result for the treasury, which if applied to the budget will make it appear much better on paper.
The N. R. A. was also singled out for attack by the Chamber of Commerce who object to the compulsory enforcement of codes. Their resolution pointed out that the original purpose of the industrial recovery act was to “permit the majorities of business and industrial groups to administer the code so as to bring the ‘chiseling fringe’ into line.” A committee was named to gather evidence for argument against the governments encroachment on private business, and to investigate the possibility of forming strong code authorities to aid in the self-government of industry.
Official recognition of Russia after 16 years was announced last Friday by the President just before he left for a vacation at Warm Springs, Ga. At the same time he announced that he would appoint William C. Bullitt of Philadelphia as the American ambassador. Of particular interest in the negotiations was the agreement that American citizens in Russia should have absolute religious freedom; a very minor concession on the part of soviet regime which ridicules and attacks all religion through slanderous propaganda.
John E. Conley, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, Department of Journalism, was elected president of the renovated Press
John E. Conley
A new deal for journalists.
Club at a meeting of the active members held last week. Charles Heckel-mann, also a senior, was elected vice-president.
William Reilly and Carl Zimmer er were elected to the offices of treasurer and secretary respectively. The elections were held in the Journalism room of the Library following a six week trial period of the new Press Club. During that time, Heckel-mann, newly elected vice-president, acted as chairman and arranged the speaking programs.
The Press Club is under the direct supervision of Professor John Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism. Membership in the club is limited to students of journalism. The active members, being a representation of those students who are participating in active press work either' writing, researching, or editing, form the nucleus of the organization. Only journalism majors are eligible for active membership. Others are classified as associate members, as are those majors who are inactive.
The junior members of the club will meet soon to hold an election for a junior representative among the officers of the club.
Sympathy
The Scholastic joins the University in extending its sympathy to the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., whose father died last week.
Staff Notice
The staffs of The Scholastic will meet this evening at 8:00 and 8:15 in the editorial offices.
November 2 4, 19 3 3
Seven
Finish Preliminaries
In Interhall Debates
Dozens of speeches have been written, thousands of words have been spoken, a dozen judge’s decisions have been given, and still the Lemmer-Trophy Debates go on. But Chairman A. L| Korzeneski foresees a near - conclusion to preliminary and semi-final contests in this annual interhall debate league.
As things stand now, in Group I the winner of the Howard affirmative and Sorin negative debate on November 23 will meet undefeated Alumni Hall, coached by Louis Hru-by. Alumni won its present place by virtue of a win over Badin and a forfeit by Walsh. In Group II the winner of the Carroll negative versus Lyons affirmative on November 22 will meet Morrissey Hall’s undefeated affirmative coached by Gene Blish. St. Edward’s and Dillon Halls lost to Morrissey. The results of these two debates will determine the vanner in each group, who will compete in the finals for the trophy.
Debates in the league during the past two weeks have resulted as follows: Group I: Alumni affirmative, won two, lost none, decisions given by Professor E. J. O’Malley; Badin negative, won none, lost one to Alumni; Howard affirmative, won one, lost none, decision given by Mr. P. R. Byrne; Sorin negative, won one, lost one, decision given by Rev. J. A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C.; Corby affirmative, lost one to Sorin, won none; Walsh negative, forfeited to Alumni and Howard; Group II: Carroll negative, won one, lost none, decision given by Rev. L. L. Ward, C.S.C.; Brownson affirmative, lost to Carroll; Dillon negative, won one, lost one, decision given by Rev. J. A. Fogarty, C.S.C., and Prof. F. J. O’Malley; Freshman affirmative, lost to Dillon; St. Edward’s negative, lost to Morrissey and Lyons; Lyons affirmative, won one, decision given by Rev. J. H. Burke, C.S.C.; Morrissey affirmative, won two, decisions given by Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C. and Prof. F. J. O’Malley.
Italian Club Meets To Discuss Pin Selection
The Italian Club held their regular bi-monthly meeting Tuesday evening, Nov. 14, in Carroll Rec. A committee of four members was selected by Emilio J. Gervasio, president of the organization, to pick out a suitable club pin to be approved of by the club members. They are: Leonard Cacciatore, Joseph Costa, Anthony Camperlengo and John Custante.
At the meeting next Tuesday evening, a paper on Dante and his works will be given by Rocco Cacciatore.
Eight
'^^about the camPus
/tl
The scene is a ducky little penthouse on the fourth floor of Walsh Hall. Sunlight pours in through the smoky green curtains o n Pee-Wee, Shag, Ed Eisher. He is lounging on the upper berth of a double decker, pipe in mouth, hands under his head.
Politician first last, and always is Fisher. He is an illustrious member of
the Utica Club (no longer in existence) and has been in constant affiliation with the,-class presidential parties. Last year he was defeated. Eddie is convinced that seven is his unlucky number.
800 Call Him “Mister”
Pee-Wee is a campus big shot, too. He heads the stadium managerial system and has no less than 800 ushers at his beck and call. At any football game he is seen running around the field, first on the N. D. side, then under the goal posts, and finally on the opposite side. He has a season reservation in the Press Box. He’s been seen there once this
year.
Eddie doesn’t as a rule like to travel, but he manages to make nearly all the football trips. His stories are usually intersting after any of these trips. He has a great capacity for making friends—his football acquaintances—he calls them.
Knit Ties & Tweeds
Socially, Shag is on the top. A brilliant past which includes escapades in Brownson, St. Edward’s, and Badin Halls, stamps him as a “smoothie.” Edward has for four years been an integral part of that unholy four—Begley, V enables, Mahar, Fisher—(Mahar is Eddie’s roommate this year.)
Nothing is too good for Monsieur Fisher. He reads the Juggler's “Observer” and heartily approves of it. Consequently, he wears knit ties, tweeds, and has a passion for house slippers. Eddie is also on the “in” when it comes to color combinations, in shirts, ties, socks, and suit ensembles.
Although Shag is a commerce student, French has a fascination for him. He hasn’t time for it in his regular curriculum but is seriously thinking of being tutored in that subject.
Premier Of Catholic Movie Here Tonight
“Through the Centuries,” a new Catholic movie production, will be shown tonight in Washington Hall. After this premier showing, the photoplay will open in New’ York. The time for its local presentation will be announced in University Bulletins.
This motion picture is distributed j by Beacon Films Inc., a recently formed Catholic cinema service. The command of Christ, “Going forth, teach all nations—” is the fundamental theme of the picture. In this film, the teaching function of the Church is adequately illustrated from the time of the Apostles to the modern era of our Catholic missionaries.
Mr. Roy P. Gates, president of Beacon Films Inc., makes the following statement concerning the production, “There is a sweep and a majesty to it. There is in it a greatness of concept. It arouses one to a sense of the Divinity of Him who came to save all man and to remain a hope and an inspiration ‘Through the Centuries’.”
Prof. Buckley Gives Paper At A.B. Lay Faculty Club
Prof. Louis F. Buckley of the Department of Economics delivered a paper on the N. I. R. A. at the monthly meeting of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club, Monday evening, Nov. 13, at the K. of C. Home in South Bend. Prof. David Campbell of the Department of English, chairman of the evening, introduced the speaker and conducted the discussion which followed;
Mr. Buckley gave an able defense of President Roosevelt’s policies looking toward industrial recovery, pointing out, however, that there were serious barriers to the plan’s complete success which might slow up the achievement of its end but which eventually would be surmounted. Chief among such obstacles, Mr. Buckley indicated, is the opposition of a few powerful capitalists who are as yet unwilling to relinquish their ill-gotten gains for the benefit of the laborer and the consumer. The speaker felt confident that the willing cooperation of the majority of employers with the government lending their moral support to the pursuasive powers of the government would bring the few recalcitrants into line.
The Northeastern News says: That among other sweet mysteries of life is why a guy will take your last dollar but will refuse your last cigarette.
The Scholastic
Many New Books Listed In Library
The following list of books have recently been added to the University library:
Religion: A. B. Barnes—The Martyrdom of St. Peter and St. Paul.
Economic History: A Epstein—Insecurity, a Challenge to America; National Association of Manufacturers of the United States—Unemployment Insurance Handbook; A. Todd—Industry and Society; R. Tugwell— American Economic Life and the Means of its Improvement; D. Yoder —Labor Economics and Labor Problems; S. Chase — Technocracy, an Interpretation; H. Kyrk—Economic Problems of the Family; L. Lorwin— The American Federation of Labor.
Sociology: A. Kolstad—A Study of Opinions on some International Problems; G. Mangold—Social Pathology; G. Wallis—Our Social World; J. Winning—Behind these Walls; C. Cooley —Introductory Sociology; E. Eubank —The Concepts of Sociology; A. Gol-denweiser—History, Psychology, and Culture; E. Groves—Introduction to Sociology; E. Hiller — Principles of Sociology.
Education: F. Davis—A Course in Supervised Education; H. Lull—Secondary Education; F. Paterson— Philosophies of Education Current in the Preparation of Teachers in the United States; D. Stratton—Problems of Students in a Graduate School of Education.
Literature: N. Collins—The Facts of Fiction; J. von Goethe—Faust; R. Lane—Let the Hurricane Roar.
Biography: E. Blunden — Charles Lamb and his Contemporaries; D. Bobbe—De Witt Clinton; K. Campbell—The Mind of Poe; C. Dickens— Charles Dickens Letters to Charles Lever; G. Geiger—The Philosophy of Henry George.
Science: G. Harn well—Experimental Atomic Physics.
Medicine: J. Krantz — Fighting Disease with Drugs.	•
Fiction: B. Tarkington — Presenting Lily Mars.
Statistics: R. White—Social Statistics.
Anthropology: V. Calverton—The Making of Man.
Finance: S. Harris—Twenty Years of Federal Reserve Policy.
Pitt Club Tribute
All members of the Pittsburgh club are requested to attend the Mass for the repose of the soul of the mother of Edward J. O’Brien, ’34, Sunday, Nov. 26, at 8:30. The Reverend Raymond Norris, C.S.C., will celebrate the Mass in the north chapel of Howard Hall.
Joseph Condon Selected Chairman of S.A.C. Dance
Joseph E. Condon, College of Law, was appointed general chairman of the final football dance of the year, to be held tomorrow night in the K. of C. Ballroom.
Inasmuch as the dances following
Joseph E. Condon
Laic student turns dance chairman.
both the Pitt and Purdue contests were well attended, Chairman Condon looks for a good representation tomorrow evening. Tickets will be placed on sale immediately and representatives stationed in all the halls. Tickets, admitting a couple, are one dollar.
The revamped Jugglers, who this year have assumed the temporary title of the Notre Dame Collegians, will supply the music, and if past performances are any criterion, it ■will be well supplied. Dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30 with regular twelve o’clock permissions.
Carr Talks on “Naturalism” at Educational Seminar
“Naturalism” was the subject of a paper read by Edward Carr, senior, at the regular meeting of the Seminar in Philosophy of Education Tuesday evening. Mr. Carr used the text, “Philosophy and Education” by De Hovre-Jordan as a reference for his material.
“Nature is at the bottom of all Naturalism,” stated Carr in his opening words. Man and animals are on the same level; man can descend to the animal level at his will, and animals can take on the intelligence of man.	•
Naturalism, he continued, only recognizes the physical sciences as a source of truth. “Natural science becomes a holy of holies in the temple of truth,” so to speak. The naturalists say that nature makes man, and not man, nature, he concluded.
South Bend Inventor Addresses A.S.M.E.
Dr. C. L. Snyder, of South Bend, inventor of “the arup” a new type of airplane, addressed the members of the local A. S. M. E. at a meeting of that group held Tuesday evening in the Engineering Building. The plane that Dr. Snyder designed and built is the machine that flew over the stadium during the Pitt game several weeks ago.
The speaker illustrated his talk with a miniature model of the plane. After describing the fundamentals of heavier-than-air planes, Dr. Snyder explained the details of the model and pointed out its many advantion is his hobby. Glenn Doolittle, of the plane when produced in larger sizes and quantities.
Subsequent to the talk, Dr. Snyder answered many questions put to him by the engineers. In private life, Dr. Snyder is a podiatrist. Aviation is his his hobby. Glenn Doolittle South Bend aviator, flies his plane for him on all trips.
At the previous meeting of the ' A. S. M. E. held on November , a paper, “The History of Metallurgy” was read by Vincent G. Fransioli. Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy, spoke on the subject, “Controlled Carburization of Steel.” Dr. Mahin described to the students his new method of carburizing steel in which he is able to save 70% of the regular time required for this purpose.
Joseph I. Hayes, a senior in Mechanical Engineering, is president of the local A. S. M. E. and arranges all the programs for the meetings.
600 Students and Faculty Members Attend N. U. Game
Approximately 600 students and faculty members went to Chicago on the S. A. C. student trip for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game last Saturday, Nov. 18. A special section of seats was reserved in Dyche Stadium for the group.
Saturday night, the Chicago Club sponsored a football dance in the Cameo Room of the Morrison Hotel, Chicago. At this affair, Corry Lynn and his orchestra furnished the music for over 100 couples.	•
Washington Hall Movies
More recent movie releases are scheduled to be exhibited in Washington Hall soon. Three productions to be shown during December are as follows:
Dec. 2 — “Three Cornered Moon,” with Claudette Colbert and Dick Arlen.
Dec. 7—“One Sunday Afternoon,”
Dec. 16—“Deluge.”
November 2 i, 19 33
Nin e
Possibility Of War Is Wrangler Subject
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
U.S.C. Game Attracts Outstanding Writers
An up-to-the-minute topic, “Will America Enter Another World War” was developed by Hugh T. Fitzgerald, senior Wrangler at the regu-
Hugh Fitzgerald
Coaches debate squad.
lar meeting of the society Tuesday night in the Law Building. Fitzgerald’s plan aroused immediate mixed favor and disapproval among the members and caused a heated discussion. Finally the society seemed agreed that in case of war in foreign territory America would soon become actively involved.
“Can America, or better, the United States, keep its head up among the nations of the world if it maintains a neutral and pacifistic attitude now or in time of war” said the speaker. “She can and will. American youth, especially young men in colleges are against war and will organize with that end in view in case of emergency.” Fitzgerald showed as an exaxmple of this the recent vote against men’s participation in war taken at Oxford in England. “Only in case of invasion, will either American or British young men go to war,” he said. Interesting developments in Germany and Italy, as well as other European powers were outlined by the speaker.
In the line of business at the meeting last Tuesday, it was voted upon by the society to permit “challenge” debates in the interhall league, following the semi-finals of the Lemmer-Trophy Debates.
Preface Of New Book
Read To Cracow Club
The Cracow Club held a meeting last Monday night at 7:30. This meeting was attended by the seminarians who were welcomed by President Korzeneski. Secretary Kar-nasiewicz read the preface to a biography of Paderewski written by Professor Charles Phillips of Notre Dame. The preface was written by Mr. McCracken, chairman of the Kosciusko Foundation of America.
No professor hovers over you at STANFORD when you write (or try to write) an examination paper. No proctors walk up and down the aisles —much in the manner of a suspicious guard in a San Quentin cell block. You sit there free to do as you like.
That freedom is guaranteed only because STANFORD men and women have banded together under an Honor Code. That codes gives them a full measure of self-esteem. They are trusted. The University is risking the value of its degree on the student’s honor. And while the bit of parchment may not mean much to the student who pumps gasoline after graduation, it means everything to the UNIVERSITY.
The Honor Code places everyone on his honor. But everyone cannot be trusted. The brutal way would be to penalize all for the possible dishonesty of a few. STANFORD men and women have not followed that course. They have chosen the gentleman’s way. Any student who is seen cheating is noted by his fellow-classmates. He is marked as unfit and either leaves the University at his own volition or is removed by -the student council.—The Stanford Daily.
A fund of §85,000 has been set up at YALE UNIVERSITY to enable students to work their way through college by work suited to their inclinations, instead of waiting table in the dining halls. They will be executive secretaries, aids to the maters and fellows, librarians and athletic secretaries, historians and curators, or will do specialized work in the university library. Students holding these scholarships at a base rate of 50 cents an hour. Sixteen hours a week ■will enable them to earn their board and twelve hours a week will give them their room rent.—Herald Tribune.
“You couldn’t get a job even if your paw was president,” said Joe College to Charlie Campus. Said Charlie Campus, “I wouldn’t need to. I’d write for Liberty.”—The Gamecock.
“Baron atoms and neutrons result when alpha ray particles strike lithium atoms.”—Waterbury College News
Yes, and what are you going to do about it? Yes, I mean you! Just letting it happen? Or do you have the manhood, the social consciousness, the Americanism, to make a protest?— The Michigan Daily.
An ounce of convention is worth a pound of lure. — The Alabama Plainsman.
The Southern California game tomorrow will attract some of the greatest sport writers in the country. Among the better known are Paul Gallico and Francis Wallace of the New York Daily Nezus; Arch Ward of the Chicago Tribune; Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald and Examiner; Mark Kelly of the Los Angeles Examiner, and Ralph Cannon, Chicago Daily Nezus.
Also on the list are: Jimmy Corcoran, Chicago American; Hal Rourke Los Angeles News; Braven Dyer, Los Angeles Times; Al Roche, Indianapolis Star; Bill Fox, Indianapolis News; Dick Miller, Indianapolis Times; Ed Bang, Cleveland Nezus; George Kirksey, United Press; Paul Michelson, Associated Press; Francis Powers, Consolidated Press; Earl Ruby, Louisville Courier- Journal; Nixon Denton, Cincinnati Times-Star; H. G. Salsinger, Detroit Nezus; Dick Hyland and Frank G. Menke, Universal Service; Paul Schrader, Toledo Times; Herb Simons, Chicago Times; R. J. Reynolds, Omaha Nezvs-Bee; Tom Swope, Cincinnati Post; Ed Hayes, Detroit Times; Ronald McIntyre, Milwaukee Sentinel; Jack Swords, Central Press Association; Lou Smith, Cincinnati ..Enquirer; Martin J. Haley, St. Louis GlobeDemocrat.
The game will be broadcast over both major networks, with Ted Busing at the mike for Columbia, and Don Wilson doing the announcing for the NBC. Also, Chicago’s WBBM will send Pat Flanagan, while WGN will be represented by Quin Ryan.
Glee Club And Orchestra Entertained At Evanston
A group of thirty students, selected from the Glee Club and the Notre Dame Collegians, afforded the entertainment at an open house party for Notre Dame men sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. John F. Cushing, Evanston, at their home on Edge-more Court last Saturday evening. The affair, which was attended by approximately 200 persons, was held in celebration of the team’s victory over Northwestern.
Alumnus Writes Treatise
Pat Corrigan, ex-’O9, in collaboration with Daniel Fraser, has written a treatise on immigration laws of the United States and Texas intended principally for Mexican immigrants and their legal advisers. This book will be placed in the University Library.
The Scholastic
Ten
ATHLETICS |
Howard Jones Writes “Trojans Fear Irish”
PILNEY’S TOUCHDOWN GIVES GRIDDERS 7-0 WIN OVER N. U.
By Howard Jones
(Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic)
EN ROUTE, Nov. 22.—The University of Southern California and Notre Dame have played some of the
Howard Jones
“. . . . a- fighting team is dangerous.” country’s most thrilling football games since their series began in 1926 and fans are anticipating another great contest this year. Our team always looks forward to meeting Notre Dame as our boys feel that the Fighting Irish represent the best in Middlewestern and Eastern football and have great respect for them.
To recall just how close the competition has been between these two institutions that have been brought together in football rivalry despite being more than 2,000 miles apart, fans need only to be reminded that Notre Dame has won four games and Southern California three. The total scores would add up to 88 points for Notre Dame to 86 for Southern California.
Competition Has Been Keen
Action has never been lacking in these games, for the records show that only twice has the losing team failed to score. Three of the seven games were won by one point and one contest went by a two-point margin. Competition could not be much closer than this, and one of the reasons why the annual meeting of the two teams draws so much interest is because the elevens are nearly always evenly matched.
Although Notre Dame has sustained some setbacks during the first half of the season, its team this season is still one of the finest in the
(Continued on Page 14)
History —
1926—Notre Dame, 13; So. California, 12. 1927—Notre Dame, 7 ; So. California, 6. 1928—-Notre Dame, 14 ; So. California, 27. 1929—Notre Dame, 13 ; So. California, 12. 1930—Notre Dame, 27 ; So. California, 0. 1931—Notre Dame, 14; So. California, 16. 1932—Notre Dame, 0 : So. California, 13. Totals: Notre Dame won 4: lost 3.
Total points: Notre Dame, 88; Southern California 86.
The Trojan horse has been horsed by the Irish, and the Trojan horse has horsed the Irish. The whole of the thing is that this home and home arrangement between Southern California and Notre Dame has been one of the closest rivalries in modern football. Past records show that the lads from Troy have had their weaker moments and the Irish have trailed to the locker room after Trojan games with a bit of a tear.
To date the tear shedding has been about evenly divided with the Californians giving evidence of moistness four times to three for the Blue and Gold.
Three of the four Irish victories fall into the one point category, while two of Troy’s three wins have been rather decisive. A mere glance at the statistics above will show the closeness of the series.
Things began to happen back in 1926 when Knute Rockne took his Irish out to Los Angeles a week after they suffered a surprise defeat at the hands of the Carnegie Tech Ski-bos; while still earlier in the season a left handed passer, Art Parisien, had tossed a port side pass to give Notre Dame a six point victory over Northwestern. In the 1926 affair on the coast the Trojans were nursing a 12 to 7 lead in the fourth quarter. Rock sent his left handed ace into the fray and two plays later Johnny Niemic caught the pass that gave the Irish its first victory over the Howard Jones eleven.
In 1927 the sons of Troy, headed by Morley Drury, sensational halfback, fought the Irish at Soldiers Field in Chicago before a record es-tablishing crowd of 117,000 fans. After 60 minutes of furious battle the Rockmen had chalked up their second one point victory over the Californians in two years, 7 to 6.
(Continued on Page 16)
SCORES ON 11-YD RUN
By John D. Carbine
One flash of brilliant, aggressive football at the opportune moment gave the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame a 7-0 victory over Northwest-
Andy Pilney
Eleven yds. for Irish’s third score.
ern Saturday. Ed Krause, Kitty Gorman and Andy Pilney were directly responsible for this sudden and successful thrust at Northwestern’s goal line which not only gave the Irish their second victory of the current campaign but also broke up their record of not having scored for four straight games.
The score came late in the second quarter. After Elser’s punt from midfield had been grounded on North-western’s nine yard line, Ollie Olson, the Wildcat quarterback, dropped back to his own goal line to punt his team out of danger. Ed Krause, who broke up every play that Northwestern sent in his direction, tore through the Purple line and blocked the punt just as it was leaving Olson’s foot. The ball bounced high into the air and, in the mad scramble that followed, Kitty Gorman recovered for the Irish on the 10 yard line.
On the first play, Mazziotti sent Pilney around left end but with perfect interference in front of him, he was caught from behind by Duvall, (Continued on Page 16)
November 2 4, 1933
Eleven
Lyons Wins Interhall Title From Brownson
Introducing...
LaRaza Beaten 2-1 By Joliet All-Stars
By Nick Connor
On Sunday, Nov. 12, Lyons hall won the undisputed crown of the interhall football league by dropping the plucky freshman from Brownson, 12 to 0. Both of the sophomores’ scores were made by Dick Schmidt, a hard hitting fullback.
The two teams played on even terms during the greater part of the first quarter, although on one occasion Lyons worked the ball down to the Brownson 16 yard line before losing it on a fumble. A pass, Bob Tuck to M. Tuck, placed the ball on the sophomore’s 37 yard line as the quarter ended.
Schmidt Opens Scoring
On the second play in the next quarter Connors booted the ball out of bounds on the Lyons 12 yard line. End runs by Charley Boyle and Bob Stapp and line plunges by Dick Schmidt placed the oval on the frosh’s 10 yard line. After Boyle circled right end for two yards, Schmidt took the pigskin on a plunge over center for the first score of the game. Delaney’s try for extra point was a little low of the cross bar.
Fehr and Weinand entered the lineup in the backfield for Lyons in the second half and immediately following the kickoff they carried the ball deep into Brownson territory. With four minutes to play in the third quarter Weinand tossed a pass to Ed Herold, who was caught on the three yard line. On the first play following Herold’s run Schmidt hit center for a touchdown. Weinand’s pass to Fehr was grounded in the end zone.
Lyons’ Guards Lead
Play during the fourth quarter was confined for the most part to the center of the field, with the sophomores safely holding their lead.
The Tuck brothers and Stillwagon were the bright lights for the Brownson team, while Bowes, Burke, Herold, Boyle, Stapp and Schmidt played heads up ball for the victors.
The lineups:
Lyons (12)		Brownson (0)
Cannon 			L.E.		 Willick
Bieske 				L.T.		 Mahar
Leary 				L.G.		 Drolla
	r.	
Bowes	—			R.G.		 Hogan
Burke 			R.T.		 Mahoney
Herold			R.E.		 Stillwagon
Delaney			Q.B.		 B. Tuck
Boyle			L.H.		 M. Tuck
Stapp			R.H.		 Barnett
Schmidt 			F.B.		 Connors
Lyons 0	6	6	0—12
Brownson _____0	0	0	0— 0
Touchdowns—Schmidt (2).
By John D. Carbine
Up at Evanston last Saturday an Irish right guard by the name of Jimmy Leonard broke up every play which the Wildcats sent in his direction. And the Purple sent a large
Jim Leonard Northwestern was amazed.
percentage of their line plays toward him because the word had been passed around that Jimmy Leonard was starting his first game as varsity guard. As things turned out, Northwestern might have fared better if they had not paid any attention to these pre-game rumors concerning the inexperience of Leonard. The yards they gained through his position were few and far betwen. His blocking on offense was little short of sensational.
James R. Leonard came to Notre Dame from Pedrickstown, New Jersey, in 1930. He won his numerals in freshman football and made the varsity squad during spring practice.
During the 1931 season he alternated at fullback with Steve Banas and George Melinkovich and saw enough action to win a monogram in his sophomore year. In the 49-0 rout of Pennsylvania that year, Jim scored two touchdowns both on hard plunges from the three yard line.
Jim reached his peak as a ball carrier in last year’s Pitt game. Although he failed to score, Leonard repeatedly tore the Panther line to shreds. His gains did not come on sweeping end runs. They came as a result of hard and straight line smashes which averaged about three and a half yards.
This spring Hunk Anderson shifted Jim from fullback to guard. Leonard was a bit slow in learning the intricaies of guard play on a Notre Dame team. In the Navy game, however, he finally served notice that he had mastered them.
(Continued on Page 14)
Two successive goals near the close of the first half gave the Joliet AllStars a 2-1 win over the plucky La Raza soccer club of Notre Dame last Sunday in a benefit game for the Joliet Herald-News Milk Fund. This charity contest, which was witnessed by 2,000 spectators, was opened by Mayor William Hennessy, of Joliet, who made the opening kick-off.
The game was a nip and tuck affair for the first 25 minutes with the Spanish boys more than holding their own against the more experienced and cleverer Joliet team. But Kelly soon started the scoring on a short dribble-in shot for the first counter and Herron followed directly afterward with another clever boot that gave the Joliet team a 2-0 lead at the half.
La Raza Stages Comeback
During the second half, La Raza staged a valiant comeback but could not quite make the necessary tallies that mean victory. Joliet played a fine defensive game in this half and Elias Hoyas made the single marker for La Raza. Hoyas had received the ball from Brias on a short pass to center and kicked it through easily. Captain Gonzalo Valdes, fullback, Roberto Benavides, and Vicente Sing-son played very commendable ball all through the game. Benavides, especially, made some fine defensive stops from his goalie position and kept the score down for the opposition.
Despite their loss, the LaRaza team deserves praise for its brave stand against a far more experienced and bigger team. Last week they made a rather ragged showing against Illinois, but more than redeemed themselves against the All-Stars in their last scheduled game of the season)
While the LaRaza club was losing this tight game at Joliet, the Hibernians, another aggregation of soccer players from the University were being swamped by the Fort Wayne soccer club 7-1, at Fort Wayne. Donovan was the only Irish player to score, while the Fort Wayners kicked through five markers in the second half.
The LaRaza-Joliet lineup.
La Raza (1)	Joliet (2)
Benavides G......................... Caneva
Busqueta _____________RFB----------- Peters
Valdes (C) ___________LFB---------- Lentini
Bonet ________________RH________ Vercelloti
Singson _____________CH___________Cameron
De Landero ___________LH------------- Clark
Hoyos ________________RW............  Kelly
Sarinana -------------RF.--------- J. Canta
Brias ________________CF.___________ Herron
C. Yriberry _________LF........... M. Canta
Gomez ________________LW.___________Demasso
Referee: Neat (Chicago).
Twelve
The Scholastic
Purdue Passes Way To Win Over Irish
IRISH CAGERS TO OPEN SEASON AGAINST KALAMAZOO HERE DEC. 4
— By Edward J. Van Huisseling
It was more that the Notre Dame system against its image and likeness when Purdue met the Irish here on Armistice day. It was a big, fast Boilermaker crew that took advantage of the breaks that came its way and turned them into a 19 to 0 win over Notre Dame.
With little apology it might be stated that the score is no indication of the relative merits of the two teams. The Irish had an equal number of opportunities to score but as per custom they folded up when they penetrated deep into the Purdue territory. Statistics again prove that Hunk’s men are a tough bunch to beat. They piled up ten first downs against seven for Purdue and were outdistanced only eight yards from scrimmage all afternoon.
Febel Intercepts Pass
The initial Purdue tally occurred in the second period after the visitors had spent fifteen minutes feeling around to find the logical spot for an assault. This spot they found was not through the Irish line or around its ends but through the air. In this manner they accounted for all three scores. The first tally came when Febel intercepted Nick Lukats’ pass on the Notre Dame 20 yard line and returned it for a touchdown. Pardonner drop kicked the extra point.
PiJney fumbled Purvis’boot on the Notre Dame 47 yard line in the third period and paved the way for the second Purdue score. Five plays later Hecker tossed a pass to Pardonner on the Irish 10 yard line and the Boilermaker field general went the remaining distance to the goal without a hand being laid on him. He then missed his third try for extra point in thirty attempts.
Irish Make Impressive March
The final score came in the fourth period following the interception of Lukats’ pass on the Purdue 33 yard line. The down state backs moved to midfield where Carter heaved a long pass to Purvis who scored after a ten yard run.
The Irish made three impressive marches toward the Purdue goal but on each occasion the sturdy Boilermaker line was capable of the task of stopping not only the running game but the Irish passes which clicked with more or less regularity outside the 20 yard line. Johnny Young was the outstanding ball carrier of the day for Notre Dame, and Duane Purvis who played 58 minutes of the game for Purdue was Noble Kizer’s shining light.
Fencing----
In their initial appearance of the year, the Notre Dame fencing team will make their debut before the student body early in January.
Profesor deLandero, coach of the fencing team, has announced that the bout will be presented for the benefit of the Bengal Missions.
So far this year the team has had one bout, that with the University of Illinois team. In that performance the Notre Dame team displayed ability, and Mr. deLandero is more than pleased with the result.
Although the regular season does not begin until spring, bouts with Purdue, Northwestern, and Indiana teams are being arranged at present. The coming exhibition match will therefore be one of great interest, especially since the members of the team will combat one another in the various phases of the game.
Those who will participate in the exhibition are,
Foils: John Caresio, Louis Grosso, David Ryan, Paul Maresdeck, and Vincent Sing Song.
Sabers: Harold May and Carlos deLandero.
Duelling Swords: Harold May, John Caresio, and David Ryan.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (0)	Purdue (19)
Millner ............L.E........... Lowery
Krause ............L.T.............. Fehring-
Wunsch .............L.G........   Huggins
Gorman ..............C--------- Skoronski
Pivarnik ...........R.G	Febel
Roach ..............R.T........... Ungers
Devore .............R.E---------- Duggins
Bonar —.............Q.B........ Pardonner
Lukats .............L.H----------- Carter
Brancheau .........R.H............ Purvis
Banas ..............F.B........... Hecker
Purdue ..............0 7 6 6—19
Notre Dame __________0 0 0 0— 0
Touchdowns: Febel, Pardonner, Purvis.
Points after touchdown: Pardonnei- (drop kick).
Substitutions: Purdue—Haas, Dennis. Lawrence, Peters, Heldt, Loebs, Peels, Basker, Dailey. Notre Dame — Michuta, Schiralli, Leonard. Solari, Mazziotti, Pilney, LaBorne, Young, Elser.
Officials: Referee—-Frank Birch, (Earlham) ; Umpire—John Schommer, (Chicago) : Field Judge—Milton Ghee, (Dartmouth) : Head linesman — Frank Hogan. (DeKalb Normal).
Interhall Cross-Country
Freshman hall won the annual interhall cross country run yesterday afternoon in a 2% mile race. Freshman scored 24; Brownson, 40, and Dillon 65 points. The winner’s time was 11:53.
VOEGELE PUT AT CENTER
The 1933-34 basketball season will be opened on Saturday night, December 2nd, just two days following the Army game in New York. The first opponents of the Irish on the hardwood this year will be Kalamazoo. In former years the Michigan quintet has always given Notre Dame more than enough opposition.
Coach George Keogan’s net squad will enter the first game minus their captain, All-American Ed Krause. It is expected that the “Moose” will be in shape for the second game, so during his absence the pivot position will be ably taken care of by Joe Voegele, who was second only to Krause in scoring last year.
The probable starting lineup for Notre Dame will be composed mostly of veterans. Johnny Jordan and Eddie Alberts will team at the forward positions. Joe Voegele will handle the center position, while Leo Crowe and Don Allen will take care of the two guard berths.
There are a number of sophomores, who may get their first taste of varsity competition in the Kalamazoo game. O’Kane and Ford are a fast set of forwards who will more than likely break into the first game lineup, as will O’Connor at center, and Ireland and Newbold, two speedy guards.
Hall Coaches Make Annual All-Interhall Selections
This year’s all-Interhall teams were chosen by the coaches of the various teams comprising the league. The selections were made at a recent meeting of the interhall coaches and officials:
First Team	Second Team
Carpenter (Cr.) ___L.E........... Poge	(Ba)
Bieschke (L) ______L.T.........  Smith	(Cr.)
Shea (Ba) -----------L.G------- O’Brien (W) Andrews (A) -------------------G-. Gilger	(Cr.)
Lord (Ba) ---------R.G_____ Steinberg	(Cr.)
Cadarro (A) -------R.T_______ Standish	(Ba)
Herold (L) ________R.E_________ Shovan	(Ba)
Delaney (L) ....... Q.B......... Curry	(Cr.)
Cavendar (Ba) -----.L.H_____ Shultz (Morr.) Stapp (L) __________________R.H_______________ De Lia (Ba.) Schmidt (L) ________________F.B_ Dunn (Ba.)
Honorable mention:
Ends: Cannon (L) ; Sholdren (A) ; Still-wagon (Br.) ; Sandera (W).
Tackles-: Huisking (D) ; .Tandolli (Cr) ;
Nolan (A).
Guards: Bowes (L) : Kiple (Cr) : Foss (H)
Centers: Blake (H) : Sullivan (Fr.).
Quarterbacks: Foley (Fr.) ; Weinand (L) : Fox (Fr).
Halfbacks: Boyle (L) : Niessen (A) : Carey (A) ; McCarthy (Cr).
Fullbacks: Zarantenello (Morr.) ; Pulombo St. Ed’s) : Andreas (Cr).
November 2 4, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
“Notre Danie flashed some of the power of yesteryears Saturday to defeat Northwestern University, 7 to 0, before 40,000 fans in the Dyche stadium.
“Despite the fact that the Irish out-gained the Wildcats more than four yards to one, it took a blocked kick in the second quarter to bring Hunk Anderson’s boys theii' second victory of the season.
“Notre Dame flashed a successful aerial attack that gained 103 yards in the first half, but the team faltered, as it had all season, inside the opponents’ twenty yard line. Fumbles hurt the infrequent chances of Northwestern to penetrate within striking distance of the Notre Dame goal.”— United Press dispatch in the Milwaukee Journal of Nov. 19.
“Andy Pilney, the sophomore poet from Chicago’s West Side, led Notre Dame out of football’s wilderness today, with a 7 to 0 victory over Northwestern.	.
“Out of a battle that raged so fiercely between the traditional rivals of the gridiron that three players were helped off the field.
“It was the first victory, the first score, for the leg-weary Irish from South Bend in five games, but it was probably the sweetest of all. It was well deserved, too, as the Irish pushed the Wildcats all over the field in piling up the impressive total of 256 yards from scrimmage by passes and a slashing attack, to 46 for the Wildcats. They made 13 first downs to only one for their opponents, and the statistics didn’t lie.”—Charles Dunk-ley in the Memphis Commercial Appeal of Nov. 19.
“In lining up the events that transpired at Dyche Stadium yesterday, it might be proper to stress the fact that Notre Dame beat Northwestern 7 to 0.
“But that is relatively unimportant it seems to me.
“After all, Notre Dame has been beating Northwestern at football, on and off, with more or less regularity since 1901.
“But to defeat Northwestern yesterday, Notre Dame had to score a touchdown.
“And that, in the light of what has been going on for most of this season, was one of the things that both Notre Dame and Northwestern seemed to have abandoned for the year.
“Well, Notre Dame did score a touchdown, getting it in the second period, when Andy Pilney raced wide
around his right end for some ten or twelve yards forward, and some fifty or more yards laterally to plunge across for what maye be the most important six points the young man ever has, or ever will score.”—Warren Brown in the Chicago HeraldExaminer of Nov. 19.
“Notre Dame’s steam roller which has rumbled up and down gridirons in the east and mid-west to no avail all fall, finally found itself today and ground a team of hapless Wildcats into the green turf of this field by a score of 7 to 0. A crowd of 40,000 people saw the Irish emerge from a scoring slump that has extended through four games and punch their way across Northwestern’s goal in the second period to end a scoreless plague that has existed since the Irish beat Indiana early in October. The score in no way reveals the superiority of the Irish.”—Jack Ledden in the South Bend Tribune of Nov 19.
“There were missed blocks, there were fumbles, but the superiority of Notre Dame could not be doubted after five minutes of play.
“From the time the first tackle was made by an Irish lineman, Krause who smothered his man with controlled ferocity the issue was manifest. It was obviously a question of what Notre Dame could do to avert a scoreless tie. The Purple were helpless before a defense that covered every pass, swarmed down under every punt with an impenetrable front and smashed or knifed down every running sally.
“It was evident too that only a miracle could keep the Irish out of touchdown land in spite of the indomitable spirit and hard tackling of the Purple secondary and the extraordinary efforts of Edgar Manske and Howard Kostbade at the ends.
“Only in blocking did the Irish fall short of the ideal but even in this department there were occasions of swift forming interference, neat sandwiching of the ends and timely dumping on the secondary.” — Chet Grant in the South Bend News Times of Nov. 19.
“There wasn’t any question about Notre Dame’s superiority even if Pilney hadn’t etched the Irish touchdown. In the first half, Notre Dame rained passes all over the field- and completed seven of them. It looked like one of the late Knute Rockne’s teams of other years. In the second half, it forgot all about the passing game and relied largely on safe football to protect a 7-0 lead.”—Jimmy Corcoran (Intern’l News Service).
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 12)
Leonard was one of the outstanding linemen of the day and it was his interception of a Navy pass that started the Irish on their final march down the field which missed being a touchdown march by mere inches.
Saturday at Northwestern Jim was one of the sparkplugs of Notre Dame’s defensive play. Northwestern’s scant gain of 48 yards from scrimmage might have been swollen if Leonard had not been piling up their line plays all afternoon.
In addition to his football activities Jim pitched several games for Doctor George Keogan’s Irish baseball team last spring.
Leonard prepped at St. Joseph’s School in Philadelphia. While at St. Joe’s to which he daily made a 75 mile trip, Jim played fullback on the football team which twice won the city championship of Philadelphia. Jim was All-Pennsylvania interscholastic fullback for two years and was captain of the team in his senior year. He also pitched for the baseball team for two seasons.
HOWARD JONES
(Continued from Page 11)
country. In some games the Irish have been inches from a tie or a victory and defeats of this kind at the hands of some of the country’s best teams do not indicate to me that Notre Dame has lost any of its old strength.
Notre Dame has a great football tradition and spirit, and even if the Irish should lose every game before meeting the Trojans, we would fear them as much as ever, because a fighting team is always a dangerous team.
We are looking forward to our trip to Notre Dame where we have found a cordiality and good will that help to make our competition worth while regardless of the outcome on the field.
Phy. Ed. Soccer Tournament Climaxed by Soph’s Victory
The fifth annual interclass soccer tournament sponsored by the physical education department was concluded last- week when the Sophomores defeated the Junior class entry, 1 to 0. The Juniors had won the two previous tournaments.
The play in the recently concluded festival was a decided improvement over other years and interest was higher.
Some of the outstanding players include Maxwell, Ronzone, Yazaki, McGrath, O’Connor, Novak, and Byrne.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
COMPARISON
There are no two ways about it; both Southern California and Notre Dame are going to win tomorrow. You don’t think so? Have a look.
Southern California beat Oregon 26-0, Oregon beat Oregon State 13-3, Oregon State beat Fordham 9-6, Forham beat Albama 2-0, Alabama beat Tennessee 12-6, Tennessee beat Vanderbilt 33-6, Vanderbilt tied Oklahoma, Oklahoma beat Tulsa 20-6, Tulsa beat Kansas 7-0, and Kansas tied Notre Dame. All of which adds up to give Southern California an advantage of 95 points over the Irish.
But: Notre Dame beat Indiana 12-2, Indiana tied Minnesota, Minnesota tied Michigan, Michigan beat Ohio State 14-0, Ohio State beat Northwestern 12-0, Northwestern tied Stanford, and Stanford beat Southern California 13-6. Ergo, the Irish are 43 points better than El Trojan. So what?
INTERHALL
Two weeks ago the interhall football season was brought to a most successful close. From a certain amount of personal observation, and from a great deal of retailed opinion we noted that the entire season was marked by more than a little success.
The interhall players, fans, and enthusiasts owe a large vote of thanks to two men who did much to insure that success.
The first is Jake Kline, freshman football coach, and director of the interhall system. He was on hand for every game, spending every Sunday afternoon during the season on the various interhall fields, being always available in case of disputes or unexpected developments, and keeping the organization working smoothly.
Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, varsity trainer, was the other willing helper. Not a few yards of Scrap’s miles of tape and bandages went to patching up battered interhall gridders. His time and efforts and equipment were offered generously.
Finally, a third important factor in the successful organization and functioning of the leagues was Clyde Lewis’ group of managers who furnished the man power necessary to have equipment on hand for each game and to see that the schedules and records of the games were properly cared for.
SCORECASTS
Considering the results of last week’s games it. is probably just as well that we didn’t have to make any guesses, for too many of our favorites
November 2 4, 19 3 3
took it on the chin. Purdue fell in line with Kansas, Carnegie Tech, and Navy as teams who could be brilliant against Notre Dame and not so hot the next week.
The last guessing we did was for the games of November 11. That week we picked 22 winners, seven losers, and two ties. For the season the record is now 133 winners, 41 losers, and 20 ties; average .686. If we follow the plan of some of our contemporaries and throw out the tie games, the average becomes .764.
For this week, 21 more guesses:
NOTRE DAME 13, SOUTHERN CALIF. 7. Army 14, Navy 0.
Harvard 20, Yale 7.
Carnegie Tech 7, New York University 0.
Columbia 10, Syracuse 7.
Princeton 20, Rutgers 0.
Michigan 13, Northwestern 0.
Purdue 14, Indiana 0.
Minnesota 7, Wisconsin 0.
Iowa 7, Nebraska 6.
Ohio State 7, Illinois 0.
Detroit 7, Michigan State 0.
Dartmouth 13, Chicago 6.
Auburn 14, Florida 6.
Duke 14, North Carolina State 0.
Georgia 13, Georgia Tech 6.
Tulane 20, University of the South 0.
Louisiana State 13, Mississippi State 0. St. Mary’s 7, U. Calif, of Los Angeles 0. Stanford 7, California 0.
Washington State 7, Washington 0.
Competent Instructors To Give Lessons to Boxers
Each year around the first of March, boxing, a sport which has been lagging at Notre Dame for the past few years, is revived by the annual intra-mural tourney conducted for the Bengal Mission fund by The Scholastic. When announcement for this contest are made, many husky prospective aspirants hesitate about entering because they feel they don’t know enough about boxing technique. But this year there should be no hesitancy on the part of candidates because they have the chance to learn boxing under very expert instruction.
This fundamental knowledge cannot be picked up and applied in the short space of a few weeks but must be learned slowly and digested carefully. Each afternoon competent instructors are available in the boxing room of the gymnasium for the benefit of those who may desire to learn self-defense or the fine art of boxing. These sessions are in no way obligatory, but merely furnish an excellent opportunity for boxing development.
During the football season, men of light physique have little opportunity for exercise in competitive sport and should take advantage of this means to develop physically and in boxing knowledge. The yearly tournament conducted by the Scholastic is usually lacking in many candidates of the lighter classes, but there should be a multitude this year because of
the experience they can gain in this afternoon session.
Among the outstanding candidates who will enroll for this instruction will be Max Marek, international amateur light-heavyweight champion, Bud Marcy, 1931 C. Y. O. champion and the alternate 128 pound boxer on Chicago’s Golden Glove team, Hal Gooden, Oklahoma featherweight champion and many of the champions and runner-ups from last year’s Bengal bouts. These classes will be conducted on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 4 to 5 o’clock and on Tuesday’s and Thursday’s from 2 un-tol 3 p. m. in the boxing room of the gym.
So what”
Mr. Trojansnipper—
can we do about replenishing your wardrobe with overcoats— suits—dinner jackets and “tails” —custom tailored
by
GOLDEN RULE
0 MASH p
—r ci N Cl N N ATI • - O H IO Ike nxdion^touo’L
Priced no higher than “hand-me-downs.”
Correct woolens to select from—styled and tailored to fit you.
27-50
38-50
Some Importations at $45.00
We shall be glad to call— or you may choose, at your leisure, from our wide range of patterns and fabrics at our show rooms — 542 Associates Bldg., Phone 3-2644.
Al Daschbach, ’25, Mgr.
South Bend Branch 542 Associates Building
Fifteen
NORTHWESTERN GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
Northwestern fullback. Mazziotti then crossed up the opposition by sending Pilney around end again. This time it was right end and Pilney, practically without interference, made the necessary yardage after a twisting weaving run by finally hurling himself across the goal line. Two Northwestern men apparently had him cornered behind the line of scrimmage but he eluded them and sifted through the entire Purple team for the precious score.
Tony Mazziotti kicked the extra point from placement.
The yardage statistics again favored the Irish. Notre Dame gained 256 yards against 46 for Northwestern and while the Irish were piling up 12 first downs Northwestern gained the necessary ten yards only once.
Notre Dame dominated the play in the second quarter. Its passing attack was clicking and consistently advanced the ball into Northwestern territory. One of these passes brought a roar of protest from the Northwestern stands. Brancheau went back to pass and after he was apparently tackled he managed to get the ball away to Elser who charged up to Northwestern’s 45. It was from here that Elser kicked to Northwestern’s ten yard line and gave Krause his chance to block Olson’s kick.
Notre Dame made two scoring threats in the second half. The first came midway in the third quarter.
Notre Dame’s most brilliant march came late in the fourth quarter. Taking the ball on their own 42 they tore down to the Wildcat ten with Young, Lukats and Elser carrying the ball. Once they reached the ten, however, their attack collapsed and at the end of four downs they were back on Northwestern’s 38 as a result of losses coupled with a 15-yard penalty for throwing the ball away after being tackled.
The lineups:
	Notre Dame (7)		Northwestern (0)
	Millner 			L.E.		 Manske
	ICrsiijRp 		.... L.T.		 _	.... Kopecky
	Leonard 			L.G.		 Whalen
	fvnrmstTi		C—	. 		 Hajek
	Wunsch 		.........		R.G.		 	Kawai
		R.T.		 Riley
	Devore 					R.E.			 .. Thoma
	Bonar    —.	.... _Q.B.			 Olson
	Lukats		T.H.		 Lind
	Brancheau 			R.H.		 Stanul
	Elser 			F.B.		 Duvall
Notre Dame ___________0 7 0 0—7
Northwestern _________0 0 0 0—0
Touchdown—Pilney.
Point after touchdown — Mazziotti (Placs Kick).
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Mazziotti, Pilney, Vairo. Davis, Banas, Young, Devore,
Northwestern —■ Cruice, Sullivan, A. Lind, Kostbade, Lehnhardt, Chambers, Leeper, Tan-gora, Heuss, Mondala, Anderson, Papich, Augustson, Sutton, Horne.
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
The modern series between Notre Dame and Northwestern started in 1920, when Notre Dame led by GEORGE GIPP won 33 to 7 . . . Not more than 14 points have separated the COLUMBIA - CORNELL grid contests in any one game since 1923 . . . The four umpires in this year’s WORLD SERIES were all bald headed . . . All of the members of the ST. LAWRENCE U. football team live in the same dormitory, so COACH TOM SULLIVAN has the players don pajamas and from ten to ten-thirty every night they run signal practice in the dorm gym , . . HOWARD JONES, U. S. C. coach, borrows countless boxes of matches during a football game and always forgets to return them . . . Do you know that JACK DEMPSEY can’t pass a jazz band without itching to get his hands on the drum sticks . . . BING CROSBY of radio and movie fame, once played on the Gonzaga U. eleven.
The Georgia Tech football team has two co-captains and three alternates . . . JOHNNY DYE, sub center on the Southern California team, is a■ cowboy in the movies . . . This is the twelfth season that FRANK MURRAY has coached football at Marquette . . . When Duke started practice this fall there were more than 100 former high school and prep stars on the freshman squad . . . CLIFF MONTGOMERY, Columbia sensation, has a younger brother, Harry, who is quarterback on the North Carolina eleven . . . At the close of the season, AUBURN will have traveled about 6,000 miles, as nine of its ten games were away from home . . . MATT BRAYSNO, outstanding St. Mary’s guard, weighs only 257 pounds . . . The Oregon State eleven had to rush from the gridiron at Portland to make a train bound for New York and its game with Fordham the next week-end.
FITZHUGH LYONS, Indiana’s colored end, is president of his fraternity . . . Despite its drawing power this season the IOWA team will get only carfare and expenses when it plays NEBRASKA at Lincoln this year . . . GENE VENZKE, one of the country’s milers, gets in shape for track by playing a round of golf every day . . . BOBBY MARACK, of Auguatana, is the leading scorer of the Little 19 conference with 77 points . . . “DUCKY” POND has never played in a losing football game during his career at Hotchkiss or Yale . . . DON ZIMMERMAN, all-American halfback at Tulane last
year, may coach the University of Mexico football team nextx year . . . The gate receipts of the New York Giants - Boston Redskins game went to MAJOR FRANK CAVANAGH’S widow ... At this writing the only unbeaten teams of any prominence in this -country are OREGON, MICHIGAN, ARMY, NEBRASKA, DUKE, GEORGIA, and PRINCETON . . . Rameses V, the Fordham ram, was captured by New York U. students and held for $50 ransom.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
The banner year for Irish opponents was 1928. That fall Howard Jones welcomed the Blue and Gold gridders to the coast for the third meeting between the two schools. This time Jones’ men scored their first of two decisive victories. The final count read 27 to 14 with the home team on top.
Southern California came back to take a 13 to 12 skinning in Soldier’s Field in 1929; and favored in 1930, they also went under. The latter game was spectacular in that Rockne developed Bucky O’Connor, a half back, into a full back within a week. Bucky put the game on ice with his brilliant open field running.
Johnny Baker was in the Trojan troupe when they came to Notre Dame in 1931. This versatile guard paid a visit to an undertaking parlor in South Bend and borrowed some crepe. With a little more than a minute to play that afternoon he hung the crepe right on the Irish nose with a field goal that broke the Notre Dame winning streak of 26 games. With the ending of the third quarter Notre Dame led 14 to 0. The Trojans took a peek at Johnny’s crepe and scored 16 points in the final frame to win.
Last year the Irish journeyed westward and gave the Westerners their second decisive win, 13 to 0.
Tomorrow, with the series standing four wins to three for Notre Dame, the boys from California with the screwy formations will be cavorting in an atempt to even matters. The Irish will be trying to make them think they are running into another California earthquake and jolt the visitors off their pins.
Faculty Of Four Schools Form Volley Ball League
The athletically inclined members of the faculty have banded together and formed a Volley ball league that is composed of four teams. The teams are made up of members of Physical Education, the A.B., the Commerce and the Science-Engineering departments.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
Irish Runners Meet Strong Field Today
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The Notre Dame cross country squad will close its season today at East Lansing where the Irish runners will participate in the annual running of the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet.
Michigan State, Marquette, Ypsilanti Normal, and Ball State Teachers head the list of strong entries in today’s meet. Clyde Roberts will be lost to the Irish for this meet because of a leg injury which was first noticed after the Pittsburgh race.
On November 11, Indiana nosed out the Notre Dame runners by two points in a triangular meet here. The Hoosiers scored 27 points to 29 for the Irish. Purdue, the third team in the race, finished a poor third. Charles Hornbostel, Big Ten ace, fin-inshed first to give Indiana a flying start. Eddie King and Leo MacFarlane tied for second and Joe Young, who experienced much trouble with his side during the race, wound up fifth.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354	Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bide:. South Bend, Ind.
Skilled Optometry Assures Accuracy Eyes Examined Glasses Properly Fitted
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
“B’s” Tie Manchester;
Meet St. Bonaventure
Despite a heavy burden of penalties, the hard-blocking Notre Dame “B” team was held to a 13-13 tie by Manchester College, at Manchester, Indiana, last week. This was the second game of the year for the Reserves and they showed a marked improvement over their previous win.
Joe Beach, fast right halfback, was the individual star for the Irish accounting either directly or indirectly for all the Irish points. Beach started the Irish scoring in the third quarter on a slashing run off tackle from the 10 yard line. The next score came on a reverse play with Clark carrying the ball, after it had been advanced down the field on a long pass from Beach to Clark. Beach passed to O’Neil for the extra point.
Notre Dame played a fine defensive ball game, although Manchester did make two scores. Both these scores were the direct result^ of penalties which advanced the ball to within the Irish five yard line. Despite these scores, the Notre Dame line played good football with Frank Jehle, the acting captain, Dick Sham-la and Joe O’Neil doing the outstanding work.
Thanksgiving should prove a most eventful day in the history of the Notre Dame “B” team for on that date they will clash with St. Bonaventure College, of Allegany, N. Y., in the stadium of the Rochester International League baseball team at Rochester. The Brown Indians have won five games, tied one, and lost one to date and boast one of the finest small college teams in the East.
Under the direction of Coach Mike Reilly, an exponent of the Notre Dame style of attack, the Bonas beat Canisius, Westminister, St. Vincent’s, and La Salle of Philadelphia. They played a tie ball game with Niagara and dropped a 6-0 decision to Manhattan College, of New York. The powerful Reserves must play exceptional ball to hold this outfit in check and continue their scoring record of 35 points in two games.
This game, which pits two teams with the same type offense together, is a charity contest sponsored by the alumni of Nazareth college, Maryland, and St. Bonaventure. All the proceeds will go towards the building fund of Nazareth College as an aid to the erection of new structures.
Sympathy
The Scholastic joins the senior class in extending its sincerest sympathy to Edward J. O’Brien, whose mother died suddenly last week.
Snooks Aids Kenny to Win
Because Richard Snooks of Morrissey Hall and St. Joseph, Mo., filled out a ticket recently for a hall-mate, R. J. (Wolfie) Kenny is the possessor of the large N. D. blanket given away last Saturday by the All Steak Hamburg Hut at 510 North Michigan St.
The popularity of Ed and Ted's miniature restaurant brought the awarding of this N. D. blanket to the attention of many students, and the managers wish to thank all Notre Dame men who participated, for their interest and support. It was also announced that similar gifts of this nature will be distributed throughout the school year by the All Steak Hut. —Adv.
Start the season right!
Peau-Doux
(Po-Do)
Cards
^”ek* 29e Ur 55c
Here are cards that everyone enjoys playing: with! Fine quality linen-finish stock, well seasoned for “snap” and durability. Beautiful multi-color modernistic backs.
Old Fashioned
Ruffmade
Chocolate Creams
33c Pound
Made in our own spotless candy kitchens by expert candy cooks. .Nothing is used but the finest ingredients— and each candy is hand-dipped in the most delicious chocolate you ever tasted. Your first taste will prove how delicious really good, fresh candy can be. Take some home tonight!
WEEK-END SPECIAL!
Ruffmade Chocolates__lb. box
Fruit Flavored Jellies_lb. box Chocolate Cov. Almonds, 10-oz box
All 3 Boxes 93c
Walgreen DRUG STORE 208 N. MICHIGAN ST.
L. Newman, Mgr.
November 2 b, 1933'
Seventeen.
So Round, so Firm, so Fule
ENGLISH BROADCASTING SYSTEM CONSIDERED THE MOST UNIQUE
By Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr.
Many of us feel that there is too much advertising on the radio. This probably would not be the case, however, if the Federal Radio Commission followed the procedure of the Post Office Department of England. In practically every country there is a different system of broadcasting control, but England’s system is doubtless the most unique.
Nearly all European broadcasting is done on short waves. The Madrid Conference allows Engand two channels; one about twenty meters, and the other about fourteen meters. Just imagine how unpleasant it would be if we here in America had a choice of only two programs in our own country. The British are, of course, free to tune in programs from other countries whenever their receivers will permit, but in as much as they are about three to five years behind us in design, very sensitive sets are not general.
Being controlled by the government, the broadcasting admits of no advertising. Ah, you say, this is perfect. But is it? After all it is the advertiser who presents the best programs. He is constantly seeking the best entertainment so that he may attract more listeners to his product. And think how much we would miss hearing Bill Hays say, “Wash your teeth twice a day and see your dentist at least twice a year.”
The announcers in England differ considerably from ours. They must be Oxford graduates and they talk in a very affected manner. The announcements are very didactic and lack originality. For all this the Englishman must pay a tax to use a radio, and there is a continual check made to see that no one evades this tax.
Now let us spend a day in England to see just what is offered in the way of Radio entertainment. At 10:30 in the morning, the radio day begins. The reason for this late start is because the English must not be disturbed until this hour and then only by a butler. At this time, the War Office gives the weather report
so his lordship will know how to dress for the day. This is followed by market reports and a religious service. Then comes news of the day and following this is a choice of a luncheon orchestra or an organ. Frome one to two, quiet hour is observed. At two there is usually an educational program of some sort, followed usually by various other speaking programs which takes us to four. Quiet ensues again from four till five. The next half hour brings the hog report and children’s hour. At six, one of the popular orchestras, such as Jack Hilton, takes the air. Seven o’clock usually brings a speaker to the microphone. He may talk on topics of the day or he may discuss politics or the market. Eight brings another religious service or an organ recital. At nine, one hears a concert orchestra or opera. This is followed with popular orchestras until it is time to sign off at eleven. The reason that eleven is the hour for signing off is because the English authorities feel that strict quiet should be observed after that hour.
Now we can see that the absence of advertising brings about notable differences in the system of broadcasting. The short daily sketches such as “Easy Aces,” “The Goldbergs” and “Amos ’n Andy” which attract such a following are notable for their absence in England. Another peculiarity of the British system is in a five minute pause between broadcasts during which a tone beat, similar to our Elgin time signal, is repeatedly broadcast. The thinking Englishman openly condemns the system of governmental control, since in effect it is worse than no programs at all, but unfortunately they are unable to do anything about it. Even the amateur status in England is unduly controlled by specific rules which strictly govern just what may or may not be sent over the air.
Perhaps, after all, we are not so bad^off with our seven minutes of advertising out of every hundred entertainment minutes, and before we criticize too severely our present system, we might spend a few moments attempting to devise a better one.
AYS the finest tobaccos AYS the finest workmanship AYS Luckiesplease!
* it’s toasted ”
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—
mR RVTTFR TASTR
Come out to the OLDENBERG INN for food that is famous for Quality and Quantity CHICKEN AND STEAK DINNERS (Try the Chicken and Noodles, Reasonably priced.)
Phone us (4-2091)and we’ll send a car for you—no charge for transportation for parties of four and over. Make the week-end perfect by dining at the
QI .DENBERG INN, on the South Michigan Road
TROJANS
(Continued from Page 3)
Thanksgiving RATESI
Reduced
Round Trip Fare to
CHICAGO
See the new shows at Thanksgiving time. Ride the speedy South Shore — leave anytime Wednesday, Nov. 29, or Thursday, Nov. 30. Return tickets good until midnite of Monday, December 4.
Round Trip
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, city passenger agt., phone 3-3111.
50UMORE
Thanksgiving Special!
ROUND TRIP for usual one - way fare . . . PLUS
On sale only Nov. 28. 29. 30. To scores ‘of cit'es! Other round trip reductions, one-way plus %. Return limit. December 5th. Round Trip samples:
TOLEDO________________$4.50
DETROIT 4.50
PITTSBURGH 0.50
CLEVELAND 7.50
CINCINNATI 7.15
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 S. Lafayette Blvd., TeL 3-8283
Ompas Agent: ART SANDUSKY. 155 Alumni Hall Phone Off-Campus Office
GREY/HOLND
190 pounds afford the blocking power for the famous Warburton reverse plays. Cal Clemens, Gordon Clark, Cliff Propst, Bill Howard and Bob McNeish, the receiver of the pass from Griffith that started the Trojans scoring last year, are all versatile backs capable of blocking or plunging on any play. All can pass and receive passes when the Jones system calls for it.
The kingpin of the Southern California line is their great blocking guard Aaron Rosenberg. This 205 pound blocking star is the keyman to the Trojan attack. If Notre Dame can keep him bottled up during the afternoon, the Southern California attack won’t be able to function because Rosenberg is the interference leader on nearly every Trojan running play. One of the principal reasons for the famous pin-wheel shift of the Trojan line and backfield is to keep Rosenberg’s identity concealed as much as possible on each formation. During this shift, ends are converted into halfbacks, tackles into ends and the guards are deceptively placed to throw the opposing defense off balance.
Larry Stevens, his running mate, is probably the fastest guard in the country despite his 205 pounds. Both Rosenberg and Stevens are veterans of three years play and they give this vital position on any team a tremendous power both offensively and defensively.
Southern California likes big, strong, fast tackles and they have a fine supply this year. Bob Erskine, former 235 pound fullback, will hold down one post with Hueston Harper, Alvie Coughlin, and George Lady, who all hit the beam at over 210 pounds, playing the other tackle berth. If Erskine cannot play, four more 210 pound tackles are ready to start — Ken Bright, Art Dittbumer, Herb Tatsch and Gerry Ostling.
Curt Youel and Williamson give Coach Howard Jones plenty of seasoned material for the center position. Captain Ford Palmer, a 190 pound six footer, plays one of the flanking positions, while Julie Bescos and War Browning hold down the other. Not a man in this first string lineup is inexperienced and nearly all are veterans of three years standing. Coach Jones lost only Smith and Brown, his tackles and Sparling at end from last year’s undefeated team.
Once again the honor of captaining a Notre Dame team is given to Ray Brancheau, the most underrated back on the Irish team. Brancheau has been playing a slashing, blocking, hard-tackling game at right halfback this fall and should more than inspire the Notre Dame men for this great intersectional game. Only one im
portant change has been made in the Irish lineup and that shift finds Jarring Jim Leonard, former line-bucking fullback, at the left guard berth and Harry Wunsch at right guard.
Despite their fine win over Northwestern, the Notre Dame team will have to play a better offensive game against the Trojans this week to get within striking distance of the Southern California goal line.
Notre Dame	Southern Calif.
Vairo _____________L.E.------------ Bescos
Krause ____________L.T.—. Erskine or Bright
Leonard ...........-L.G_________ Rosenberg
Gorman ............. C.............. Youel
Wunsch ............ R.G___________ St^v-ns
Roach ______________R.T	   Harp-r
Devore ____________R.E......... Palmer	(L)
Bonar Q.B_______________________ Warburto-’
Lukats ____________Q.B.......... M^Nei
Brancheau ---------R.H— F. right or Clemei
Banas _____________F.B—............ Propst
Referee — James Masker (Northwestern). Umpire—Frank Lane (Detroit). Field judge —Dr. J. H. Nichols (Oberlin). Head linesman —Jay Wyatt (Missouri.)
University Trustees Meet This Afternoon in Main Bldg.
A meeting of the Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame will be held at 3:30 Friday afternoon in the parlor of the Main Building. After that dinner will be served in the Trustees Dining Hall at 6:30.
The following members will attend: Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; Mr. Fred J. Fisher, Detroit; Mr. Miles W. O’Brien, South Bend; Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wisconsin; Mr. Matthew J. Carney, New York; Mr. James J. Phelan, Boston; Mr. Frank E. Hering, South Bend; Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan; Mr. John F. Cushing, Chicago; Mr. Frank C. Walker, New York; Mr. George M. Anson, Merrill, Wisconsin; Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago;and John P. Murphy, Cleve-, land. Mr. Angus D. McDonald, New York, will be prevented from attending the meeting by necessity of an inspection trip over the Southern Pacific of which he is presidents The Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the President and Treasurer of the University are members ex officio.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (M. D. in three years) or three terms stay be taken each'year (M. D. in fear years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
1
QJ COURT OR CAMPUS, you’ll find the lively ones keep in trim with the help of Shredded Wheat.
For forty years, these golden, crisp-baked biscuits have been the favorite pick-up food of active folks. Taste alone would win you. But Shredded Wheat has a lot more to offer. It brings
When you see Niagara Falls on the package, you KNOW you have Shredded Wheat.
you all the essential elements of whole wheat. . . the proteins, vitamins, carbohydrates and minerals. And bran, meas-sured for you by Nature. Just 100% whole wheat with nothing added, nothing taken away.
Eat Shredded Wheat for at least ten days and see if it doesn’t put a new spring in your step. No waiting when you order, for it’s ready cooked, ready to eat. Just pour on milk or cream and top with your favorite fruit. At all campus eating places.
Established 30 Years LEMONTREES OPTOMETRISTS
222 ?£ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer, to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Phone:O®“ Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST
THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product of NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “U needs Bakers”
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend Indiana
IB. PAUL BYRNE* LIBRARY*
