The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
May 24, 1935
No. 26
ROBT. SCHMELZLE WINS BREEN ORATORY MEDAL
NINETY-FIRST ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES WILL BE HELD NEXT WEEK
From a group of seven finished speakers that survived the preliminary eliminations, Robert Schmelzle, junior in Arts and Letters, emerged victorious in the Breen Medal Oratorical Contest Wednesday night in Washington Hall. The winner, prominent in campus forensic activities, has been an outstanding member of the Varsity debating team during the last two years.
Schmelzle’s oration was entitled 1 “My Brother’s Keeper.” His speech focused attention upon the existence of individualism in the past and present and the need in the future for an increased desire to improve society, rather than to satisfy one’s own ends. Emphasizing his thesis the speaker asserted, “We must fight against the grim tradition that every man must fight and plot against his fellowman from the cradle to the grave, and that if the individual falls through misfortune or circumstance, his riddance will be the gain of society.” In concluding, the speaker remarked, “A new vista of abundance will stretch before man as he proclaims to his Creator, ‘I am my brother’s keeper!’ ”
The three judges, Professors Doyle, Downey and Cox, who judged the merits of the speakers upon their delivery and material, awarded Schmelzle the coveted medal for his excellence in both of these phases.
Besides the winner, two other speakers received honors. John Logan, junior law student, who spoke on “Social Progress vs. Greed and Cupidity,” gained first honors for his impressive presentation of the child labor situation. William Fieweger, junior, speaking on “Banking Insur-i. ance” received second honorable mention.
The four other finalists and their topics were: Richard White, “Government Ownership of Railroads”; Thomas Sheiffer, “Pope Leo XIII and His Encyclical on Labor”; Emil Peter, “Is America Sleeping?”; Ed Boyle, “A Tribute to the King of Rugged Individualists.” The men competing in Wednesday’s finals were determined by four preliminary try-outs of twenty speakers during the past weeks.
3Vlay 2'4, 1935
“SCHOLASTIC” EDITOR
John S. Moran He'll be head man.
FR. O’DONNELL PRESENTS LAETARE MEDAL SUNDAY
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will formally present, on Sunday night, May 26, in the Church of the Blessed Sacrament, Hollywood, the 1935 Laetare Medal to Frank Hamilton Spearman, California novelist and scenarist.
The writer was named recipient of the medal on March 30. Most Rev. John Joseph Cantwell, Bishop of Monterey and Los Angeles, will preside, and the Hon. Joseph Scott, 1918 medalist, will speak.
The Laetare Medal is awarded annually by the University, and is recognized as the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. The medal is a solid gold disc suspended from a gold bar, bearing in black enamel the words “Laetare Medal.” The medal is so named because it is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent.
VARIOUS EVENTS PLANNED
By John Gillespie
A full and varied program will be offered in the 91st Commencement Exercises, on May 31, June 1, and June 2. Athletics, banquets, concerts, addresses, and reunions will make the three days eventful and enjoyable.
Visiting alumni will be registered on May 31 and June 1 for lodging. Alumni Hall will house the members of the classes before 1920; Dillon Hall is to be reserved for the classes of 1920 and after. The Alumni Golf Tournament will be held on the University course, Friday and Saturday. Reunion dinners are scheduled for Friday, at 6:00 p. m.
The varsity baseball team meets Wisconsin University on May 31, and Michigan State on June 1, at Cartier Field. The second annual Notre Dame National Catholic Interscholastic Track and Field Meet will take place Friday and Saturday. Many new high schools are included in this increasingly popular feature. The annual Alumni Banquet in the University dining halls, and a concert by the Glee Club in Washington Hall close the festivities for Saturday.
At 9:00 Sunday morning, the Most Reverend Francis J. Spellman, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Boston, will give the baccalaureate sermon at the solemn pontifical Mass, in the gymnasium. The nationally famous Moreau Seminary choir will offer special music. The Monogram Men’s luncheon in the dining hall provides the next important incident.
At 4:00 p.m. the 91st graduating class will assemble in the gymnasium for the awarding of degrees. The Hon. Shane Leslie, famed on the campus for his distinctive lectures and in the literary field as an essayist and a dramatist, will deliver the Commencement address.
One
Cusack, Bums, Mulligan Are JOHN COYNE TO HEAD Winners In Class Elections KNIGHTS OF COLUNBUS
CUSACK GIVES BANQUET
By Paul Foley
The last wisp of the smoke of battle has blown away from the annual spring battlefields, the final barrage of ballots having been laid down on Thursday, May 9, when the elections for all 1935-1936 class officers were held.
In the main encounter, the race for
Howard Cusack
His 'margin was comfortable.
the Senior class posts, Howard Cusack and his ticket emerged victorious by a comfortable margin. Cusack, who was elected president of the 1936 class, is a native of Brooklyn, New York. He succeeds Thomas Proctor, of Elkhart, Indiana.
Daniel O’Brien, of Cleveland, Ohio, will be vice-president of next year’s graduates; Arthur Kerns, of Saginaw, Michigan, and Arthur Huber, of Fort Atkinson, Iowa, were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively.
The Cusack ticket was swept in behind the peaceful and effective campaigning of Lee Moorman and Tobias Kramer.
The winners inaugurated a novel victory celebration when President-Elect Cusack was host to his many workers and party supporters at a dinner, held shortly after the elections, at the Morningside Hotel, in South Bend.
Martin Burns, of Chicago, Illinois, a strong pre-election favorite ran true to form in the final balloting and was elected with a long lead over Walter’ Neinaber, his competitor for the presidency of next year’s junior class.
Thomas Foy, of Central, New Mexico, was the successful candidate for vice-president in a surprise victory over John Gillespie who held a wide margin in the primary balloting. William Lynch and George Lane were elected secretary and treasurer, both amassing comfortable leads.
The junior balloting in the pri-
Two
Tom Murphy Elected Head of the Student
Activities Council
Thomas J. Murphy, of Newport, Rhode Island was elected by. the Student Activities Council to succeed Thomas K. LaLonde as president of the organization. Murphy will be starting his second year as a member of the S. A. C. having been received into the organization when he was elected last spring as president of the Junior class of 1934-35.
Murphy was elected by a 10 to 4 count over his nearest rival, Robert Cavanaugh, of Rouseville, Pa.
In reaching the presidency, Murphy has followed exactly the sequence by which LaLonde was elected. LaLonde became a member of the S.A.C. in the spring of 1933, when he also was awarded the presidency of his Junior class.
Hal Miller, president of this year’s sophomores, was elected secretary of the S.A.C. Miller is from Indianapolis, Ind. Charles Boyle of Duluth, Minn., was made treasurer for next year.
The balloting was held at the last regular meeting of the S.A.C. for this year, a closed session held on Monday evening, May 20.
Rybicki Heads Cracow Club
Eugene J. Rybicki was elected president of the Charles Phillips Cracow Club of the University of Notre Dame at the last meeting of the Club for the school year. He will replace President Arthur L. Korzeneski next fall. The other officers-elect are respectively: vice-president Alfred A. Sniadow-ski, secretary Joseph J. Sckoczylas, and treasurer Daniel F. Kalczynski.
Korzeneski, who will graduate in June, was elected president of the Polish Student Association of the first district, at the district convention held in South Bend recently, when, as president of the Notre Dame Cracow club, he was host to many guests from universities in the first district.
maries had been stormy, but the final elections were run off smoothly enough and there was never much question as to the final outcome. The successful Burns ticket was ably championed by James Bacon, William McNally, and Steve Finan.
Next year’s sophomore president will be Thomas Mulligan, Joseph O’Boyle is to be vice-president, Chauncey Rooney was elected secretary, and John Kelley will hold the treasurer’s position.
In a spirited and closely contested election, the Knights of Columbus selected their new officers. With the council chambers full arid nearly a full rostrum present, the largest vote in several years was cast. The votes were well distributed among the various candidates, and the result was uncertain until the ballot count was almost complete.
John V. Coyne was elected Grand Knight as a result of his popularity gained in his able handling of several major activities throughout the year. Grank Knight-elect Coyne nosed out Ray Martin by a close margin. Robert Cavanaugh, the only candidate to be nominated from the floor, ran a substantial third.
For Deputy Grank Knight, Edmond Hammer led the balloting over Paul Schrenker and Harold Druecker. Arthur Cronin polled a substantial margin over. Henry Dendler for the office of Chancellor. Frank Matthys who has been active in many K. of C. events, was elected Recorder over Thomas Foy, who was handicapped by his newness in the council.
William Bowes, who held the office of Recorder this year, nosed out Francis Deery for the office of Treasurer. Thomas Reardon will return to take over his duties as Warden, having defeated Nicholas Casillo. August Church, the only uncontested candidate, will continue in his present position as Advocate.
The office of Inside Guard will be held by Julius Rocca, who defeated Thomas Funk. The closest race of the election was run between Achilles Moorman and George Thomas for the office of Outside Guard. Moorman won the position by a slight majority.
Catholic Poetry Society
At the first meeting of the newly established Notre Dame branch of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, Sister M. Madelva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College was elected president. The organization, which held its initial meeting in the lay faculty lounge on Wednesday evening, May 15, also elected Professor Norbert Engels of the English department as secretary.
Nineteen members attended the first meeting. Brief talks were given by the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., the Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., James Armstrong, Louis Hasley and Rufus Rauch. Sister Madelva reviewed briefly the history of the Catholic Poetry Society of America. The organization will remain inactive during the summer months, but will resume its program in October. .
The Sc ho las t i c
PRENDERGAST IS NAMED TO “SCHOLASTIC” POST
Moran, Davis, Tombragel, Named To 1935-36 Editorial Positions
The appointment of Joseph P. Prendergast to the position of Managing Editor of The Scholastic for the school year 1935-36, was announced this week by the Faculty Board of Publications. Prendergast is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and is a resident of Ware,
Joseph P. Prendergast He’s worthy of promotion.
Mass. In addition to his duties as managing editor, he will conduct the campus sports column, “Splinters From The Press Box” during the coming year.
The editorial board of The Scholastic announced this week, with the approval of the Board of Publications, the appointment of six new staff members, three to the news and three to the sports departments. The men added to the news staff are: Gregory Byrnes, Arts and Letters sophomore from Ontario, Canada; Harold Williams, Arts and Letters > freshman from Baltimore, Md.; and John Hurley, Rushville, N. Y., a sophomore in Arts and Letters.
The sports staff will be enlarged through the addition of Andrew Crowe, Arts and Letters freshman from Lafayette, Ind.; Arch Gott, Chicago, Ill., a sophomore in the College of Commerce; and Allen F. Bride, Hartford, Conn., a sophomore in the College of Commerce.
Class Day Exercises Will Be Held in Washington Hall
As an important part of the three-day Commencement program, the Class Day exercises of the 1935 graduates ■will be held on Saturday, June 1, at 10:00 a.m., in Washington Hall.
John Francis Holahan, of Galesburg, Illinois, is the Valedictorian; Joseph Francis Becek, of Ambridge, Pa., the Class Orator; and George Carlos Hager, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, is the Class Poet.
^May 24, 1935
Final Issue of “Lawyer” to Make Appearance on Campus Early Next Week
Expertly written articles by leaders in the field of law, recent decisions, notes on cases, and book reviews comprise the May issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, the final appearance of the journal this year. Coeditors John Berry and Joseph McCabe announce that the publication will be released early next week.
Prof. Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, is the author of the leading article on the legal rights of man. Henry Clay Johnson, graduate of the law school last year contributes, “An Analysis of the Present Legal Status of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.”
“What’s Wrong with Law in the United States?” is the title of the article by Rev. John Noonan. Father Noonan is a member of the faculty of Loyola University, Chicago. A feature of the May issue is the compilation of a restatement of the law of Agency with annotations to the Indiana decisions prepared by a committee of Notre Dame law faculty. The article contains the first twenty-six sections.
Co-editor Berry, Richard Molique, and John Locher contribute to the department on Notes. The recent case contribution is the work of John Keller. Don F. Wise prepared the book reviews.
Throughout the year, the Latvyer has been highly praised by outsiders. Commendations were made especially on the articles of the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Hon. Leonidas Pita-mic, W. C. Dorsey, and Louis Jackson, all contributors to various issues of this year’s Lawyer, The notes and recent decisions have been the objects of favorable comment from many.
Notations from the Lawyer appear in several recent case books on law, namely those of Prof. Chafee of Harvard, and Prof. Hepburn of Alabama.
Co-editors Berry and McCabe are to be congratulated on the high calibre of work they have turned out this year.	.
Italian Club Elections
Patrick Dizenzo was elected president of the Italian club at the special election meeting held Friday evening, May 17, in Walsh hall basement. Dizenzo succeeds John Busichio. Anthony P. Serge was elected vicepresident; Enrico di Brienza, treasurer; and Matthew Bruccoli, secretary.
“SCRIP” PRIZES AWARDED
The announcement of the appointments, for 1935-36, of John S. Moran and of DeLancey J. Davis to the editorships of The Scholastic and the Dome respectively, was made at the annual Publications Banquet, Monday evening, May 13. Maurice F. Tom-
Delancey J. Davis A wise selection.
bragel, a senior in Arts and Letters, was chosen editor of Scrip early this week. The appointments were announced by the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications.
Moran succeeds John D. Carbine as editor of the University news weekly. The new editor is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and is a resident of New York City. He has been a member of the news staff since his sophomore year, and served as news editor during the past year.
Davis, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, succeeds John W. Walker as editor of the Dome. Daring the past two years he has worked on the yearbook and has familiarized himself with its make-up and production. His home is in Schenectady, New York.
Tombragel, who will return for graduate work next year, succeeds George A. Lawton as editor of Scrip. He is a resident of New York City and has been, during the past year, a frequent contributor to the literary quarterly.
Ninety campus journalists attended the banquet, at which Shane Leslie gave the principal address. The annual §25 prize for the best prose contribution to Scrip, literary quarterly, was divided between William A. Kennedy for his “Late Bus,” and Maurice F. Tombragel for his “Gallery Afternoon.” The $25 award for the best verse was given to Harry J. Cozad for his “Johnson’s Hill.”
T bree
DR. ZAHN IS ELECTED AS HONORARY ALUMNI HEAD
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni association, announced recently that Doctor Albert F. Zalnn, occupant of the Guggenheim chair of Aeronautics in Washington, had been unanimously elected honorary president of the association for 1935-1936.
Dr. Zahm is one of America’s outstanding aeronautical authorities. While here at Notre Dame he became noted for his pioneering achievements in aviation. Though he was interested primarily in the physical laws of flight he put his theories to a successful test by flying one of his own gliders in the days when this was a real achievement. As one of the University’s outstanding sons he was the unanimous choice for this honorary position.
The latest issue of The Notre Dame Alumnus is a fitting tribute to the memory of the late Father John W. Cavanaugh. Many of Father Cavanaugh’s brilliant speeches are reprinted in this issue. They are well worth reading especially his commencement addresses for they give a vivid conception of his ideal University and his ideal Notre Dame.
Several pages of the Alumnus are required to print the many hundreds of telegrams and letters that were received from alumni and friends in every part of the country. The power of his personality and the magnitude of his achievements are shown both by the number and evident sincerity of these messages. Men high in the ranks of government, industry, and education join together in their expressions of sympathy.
Another section of this issue contains the official commencement program. It is expected that an unusually large number of the alumni will be on hand this year. Many new features have been arranged to make this y e a r’s commencement particularly memorable not only to the graduating seniors and their friends hut to the visiting alumni as well.
An interesting account of Father O’Hara’s recent European trip, reports from the various city chapters indicating the enthusiastic reception of the Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast, an account of the doings of the various alumni groups, and a summary of recent athletic events on the campus complete this Memorial issue of the Alumnus. . .
The annual mail-ballot election of the officers of the Alumni Association is now in progress.
Four
SCIENCE GRADUATES GIVE SURPRISE BANQUET FOR FATHER WENNINGER
The seniors of the College of Science gave a testimonial banquet to the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the college, on Wednesday evening, May 15. The banquet was
Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C. A Popular Dean.
held in the lay faculty dining room and was attended by 25 members of the senior class.
The dinner was a complete surprise to Father Wenninger who was under the impression that it was merely a final social assemblage of the class. After the purpose of the banquet was announced by William Bernard, who acted as toastmaster, the class gave the guest of honor a rising vote of thanks.
After the dinner Father Wenninger was thanked by the toastmaster, in the name of the senior class, for his services in guiding and directing the present class through their four years of academic education. Father Wenninger responded by expressing his gratitude to the class for the honor they had bestowed upon him. He wished the men every measure of success, and said that regardless of the success that they might obtain they would always be welcome back at Notre Dame.
The committee appointed by the graduating class to arrange for the banquet consisted of William Bernard, chairman; Samuel La Monica and John Shaner.
Chicago Club Dance
The Chicago Club will hold its an-nuar’summer dance on June 11, in the Joseph Urban Room of the Congress Hotel. Charley Gaylord’s orchestra, which is now playing in the Pompeiian Room of the Congress, will furnish the music. Tickets for the affair have been priced at $1.75 per couple, a reduction over former summer dance prices. ’
Table reservations may be made with any of the club officers, with any of the hall' representatives, or by calling the Congress Hotel during June 10 and 11. Tickets may be procured from any of the officers,' or at the door on the night of the dance.
RYAN IS APPOINTED TO GLEE CLUB PRESIDENCY
A
The 1935-1936 Glee Club officers as recently appointed by Professor Joseph Casasanta, director of the Club ' and head of the music department are as follows:
John F. Ryan,a junior in Arts and Letters and a resident of Oak Park, Illinois has been made president. Mark Finocchiaro, of Rochester, New York, a junior in Science will officiate as vice-president.
The business management of the club will be taken over by Irwin Goldman of Long Island, a junior in journalism. His assistant will be Thomas E. Adamson, a junior in commerce and a resident of Geneva, Ill.
Managing the publicity of the Club is John W. Kirsch, a commerce junior from Indianapolis. Lindsay Phoebus of Cumberland, Maryland, a junior in A.B., is the assistant publicity manager.
The Glee Club presented a quarterhour program over the Columbia broadcasting system this morning at 11:30, Central Standard Time. The broadcast originated in the studios of WSBT in the Engineering building, and was carried over the entire Columbia network.
Hochreiter To Head The Commencement Ushers
For the first time in many years at . Notre Dame the Commencement ushers will be students of the graduating class. Following the procedure at several other universities, the Prefect of Discipline appointed a marshal, who had the power to select, with the president of the class, the men to act in the capacity of ushers.
Franklyn C. Hochreiter, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed marshal with the following three deputy marshals—John D. Carbine, Vincent A. Gorman, Jr., and John J. McGrath. The other men on -the staff are: George Barber, John ■ Breen, James Cronin, Clifford Dudley, Martin Hendele, Robert Henne-berger, Cecil Hobert, Robert Lee, Fred Locke Morris, Walter O’Brien, Varnum* Parrish, and Eugene Witch-ger.	“
The ushers will act at the four public functions over the week-end—the Class Day Exercises Saturday morning, the Glee Club Concert Saturday evening, the Baccalaureate Mass Sunday morning, and the Conferring of Degrees Sunday afternoon.
The Scholastic
SECOND AERONAUTICAL
Bishop Noll Will Celebrate Opening of
MEET HELD ON MAY 15
Tenth Episcopacy Anniversary Tomorrow
By Louis Da Pra
Colonel Eddie Rickenbacker and Major Alford “Al” Williams were the principal speakers at the University’s second aeronautics conference held in Washington Hall, Wednesday afternoon, May 15, before more than 600 students and a score of leaders in the American aviation industry.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, opened the conference by outlining the aims of the course in aeronautics in the College of Engineering and the course in airport management in the College of Commerce. Father O’Hara warned the nation to keep ahead of the rest of the world in aviation for commercial and defensive purposes.
Colonel Rickenbacker, America’s greatest war-time flier and vice-president and general manager of Eastern Air Lines, told of the immense strides made by the fledgling industry and prophesied greater achievements to come. In referring to airmail contract cancellations, he told of the obstacle that politicians have placed in the way of the industry.
In speaking of the need of young men, he said: “There has never been a time in history when opportunities for young men were so great as they are today.”
Colonel Rickenbacker predicted that adequate aeronautics development will prevent future wars, that in three years the Atlantic will be spanned by regular air service, and that scheduled ail* transports will fly the Pacific within a year.
Major Al Williams, one-time star pitcher for the New York Giants, crack pilot in both the United States navy and Marine corps, one-time world airplane speed record holder, and now head of the aviation division of the Gulf Refining company, praised the University’s planned aeronautics course. He said the industry was crying for trained men.
Inclement weather in the East, making it impossible for him to fly his Cui-tiss Hawk biplane here, caused the postponement of his originally scheduled aerobatic exhibition over the campus. He then showed several reels of motion pictures illustrating some of his famous aerial tricks.
An informal conference at luncheon in the faculty dining hall preceded the formal meeting in Washington Hall. Nothing developed which would materially change the air course that will be added to the curriculum next fall.
Jeanne d’Arc Medal
Awarded to Forbes;
Doyle Gets Mention
The French department of the University has announced that the much coveted Jeanne d’Arc Medal, the a w a r d for general excellence in French diction, language and literature, was won this year by Robert L. Forbes of New Rochelle, New York. Forbes will graduate from the College of Arts and Letters this June. The medal was awarded following a contest held in the Main Building on May 15.
During his course of studies here at the University, Forbes has specialized in the studies of the French and Spanish languages with a view towards a career in foreign trade.
Gerald P. Doyle of Chicago, also a senior graduating from the College of Arts and Letters in June, was awarded first accesit.
Forbes’ name can now be added to the following list of the winners of the contest since it was first held.
1933—David W. Dalrymple, graduate student in the Institute of Medieval Research here at the University; 1934—George C. Martinet.
Major General Markham
Addresses The Engineers
Major General E. M. Markham, chief engineer of the United States Corps of Engineers, addressed the faculty and Notre Dame engineers on the afternoon of May 10. His educational talk covered the history, operations and duties of the department which he heads.
General Markham delved lightly into the history of the Corps of Engineers, mentioning the construction of the Panama Canal and the gigantic feats performed durng the World War.
Part of his talk dealt with the government irrigation, power and flood control projects which his department has recently completed and is contemplating. He brought out an interesting feature in the construction of the dam across the Columbia river. Over a million dollars was spent for a fish elevator to carry the salmon above the dam during the spawning season. Another intriguing and astounding fact his talk brought out was the extensiveness of the Mississippi levees. These levees are larger than the great wall of China and withstand a more, formidable foe.
Besides his talk about his department, General Markham praised the Engineering department at Notre Dame.
STUDENTS TO TAKE PART
By Bertram Smith
The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, will open the celebration of his tenth episcopacy anniversary with a low mass at 6:30
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D. His tenth anniversary.
tomorrow morning in Sacred Heart church. The Bishop’s novena, which has been conducted for the last week, will end Saturday when the students’ spiritual bouquet will be presented to the Bishop.
Sunday afternoon the student body has been invited to participate in the Deanery Eucharistic celebration, in honor of Bishop Noll, to be held in the stadium. The pageant, in which 25,000 are expected to join, is sponsored by the Catholic Youth Organization of' St. Joseph County. The procession, marshalled by Mr. Robert Riordan, registrar of the University, will form at 2:15 o’clock, school time, in Cartier Field and proceed to the stadium. There the assembly will (Continued on Page 20)
SMay 24, 1935
Five
SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT AWARDS SCHOLARSHIPS
SHANE LESLIE SPEAKS ON CARDINAL MANNING
By Clifford F. Brown
Awarding of five graduate scholarships in Social Case Work for the school year of 1935-36 were announced this week by the Graduate Curriculum in Social Work.
Awards were based upon scholastic attainment and upon the testimony of reputable judges concerning the qualifications of the applications for social work. The minimum requirement for students to secure these awards was 20 hours in social science.
Graduates of all colleges were eligible for these scholarships. In response to this opportunity, applications came from cities as far distant as San Diego, California and Providence, Rhode Island.	•
All of those who have been awarded scholarships are Notre Dame men, since many other applicants were unable to fulfill the requirements of sociology background. It is noteworthy that few Catholic colleges offer the comprehensive courses in the social sciences which are considered essential in a pre-professional relationship and social work. Notre Dame, however, offers many more courses Than are contained in the minimum requirements.
The following are the recipients of tuition scholarships for the academic year, 1935-36: James A. Bartley, A.B. ’30, graduate student from Morganfield, Kentucky; Walter J. Kennedy, A.B., ’34, of Glenbrook, Conn.; and Cornelius J. Crowley of Brooklyn, New York, Paul P. Halbert of Weedsport, N. Y., Luke F. Kelly of Albany, N. Y., all three graduates of the class of 1935.	•
Gerald A. Purcell, A.B., ’35, of • ’ Scranton, Pa., was named first alternate. The Knights of Columbus Scholarships in Group Work will be announced at a later date.
Servers Club Holds Banquet
The Server’s Club held their first annual banquet in the Faculty Dining Hall last Monday evening. In the absence of the Rev' J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., the sponsor of the organization, the group was addressed by Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who spoke on Catholic Action, and Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., who gave a very interesting treatment of the theme, “Daring to be Different.” Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., extended the best wishes of the members to the Server’s Moderator, Brother Boniface, C.S.C., who will leave for Germany in June. He is expected to carry on the work of the group next September.
^ubout the carnPus
Last of the men about the campus
to be presented in these columns for 1934-35 is the man who ranks third in the list of graduating seniors. Since leaving Corpus Christi High, John Francis “Bud” Holahan has developed into a salesman, politician,
and scholar. He heads the graduates of the Commerce School with an average of 94.6, and is the first student of that college to be chosen as valedictorian of his class in the last ten years.
Being selected to deliver the Valedictory was not a new experience for him. Back in his high school days he was chosen for the same honor. Since coming to Notre Dame, Frank has ac- . quired the ability to handle profit and loss statements and balance sheets like an adding machine. However, mathematics alone do not take up most of his time for the library has experienced a sharp increase in the turnover of novels since he tried to cover four years of reading in one.
His ventures into the political whirl at Notre Dame have brought him a membership in the S.A.C., and. the chairmanship of the student trip to the Navy game in Cleveland last fall. He is another of that smalt army who were powers behind the machine that elected the president of the class of" ’35. His latest task is furnishing seniors with the proper commencement invitations.
Galesburg, Illinois is his home town, but Frank has a sincere affection for Louisiana beauty. Having visited the southern state during one vacation, his deep sense of the aesthetic has prompted his frequent return.
Occasionally Frank can drop his quiet and easy going attitude. This was demonstrated one night by the exceptional speed with which he returned to the campus from a dance. Since then he has been known among
Mr. Leslie’s final lecture will be given on May 28. It will be entitled: “Ghosts and Ballads.”
By Harold Williams
Prefacing his lecture with the remark that it would be the final one of the year unless a few students survive the examinations and appear next Tuesday night, Mr. Shane Leslie spoke on the life of Cardinal Manning on May 21 in Washington Hall.
After refuting and disclaiming the evidence given in the first biography of Manning, which was written a few years after the Cardinal’s death by an obscure journalist named Purcell, Mr. Leslie, who wrote the second biography of Manning, went on to trace the ecclesiastical life of the Cardinal.
Cardinal Henry Edward Manning, the son of one of the directors of the Bank of England, was born in 1808. He attended the public school of Harrow and later the University of Oxford. No sooner had he finished college when his father became bankrupt and Manning was forced to give up his ambition to enter politics. He soon turned to the church and became a curate in Sussex in 1830. Later he was advanced to an archdeaconship at Chichester. It was while Manning was at Chichester that he became a convert to the Catholic Church and ten weeks later one of her priests.
Manning’s first major achievement was a result of his acquaintance with Florence Nightingale. It was through his influence that she journeyed to the battle fields of the Crimean War with a group of Irish Nursing Sisters of Charity to bring aid and comfort to the wounded soldiers and fame to herself and the nuns.
It was not long after Cardinal Manning had returned from Rome where he had been working for the acknowledgment of the infallibility of the pope that he became a champion of the working class. In the greatest dock strike in the history of England during the year 1889, laborers were striking for a penny more an hour. Cardinal Manning at the age of eighty attempted to bring the two parties together. His first attempt at conciliation failed, but his second one met with the approval of both parties. A few months afterward the Cardinal died, the acknowledged champion of the working class, the boys as the campus cannon ball. The eventful career of the 1935 Valedictorian began with a six week’s stay in historic old Brownson Hall, back in ’31, and again history repeats itself and he will finish his final semester by another six week’s sojourn in the same place.
Six
‘The Scholastic
NET CLUB NOVES TO SOLVE ITS TROUBLES
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
REYNIERS PERFECTS
SCIENTIFIC METHOD
By Paul Foley
The Metropolitan Club coasted blithely to the end of a rather hectic year with all sails still intact. After the many feverish weeks of planning;, the officers succeeded in puncturing the lethargy of the members and managed to reach a satisfactory settlement of their long harbored deficit. >	With the club’s financial standings
on a more even keel, elections were held on Tuesday, May 14. Carl Let-sen was elected president of the New York organization, out-balloting Edward Hammer for the position.
William Shea will act as vice-president during 1935 -1936, Joseph O’Brien was elected treasurer, and George Lane won the treasurer’s berth.
The election of Inter-Borough representatives who will replace the . board of trustees was postponed until next fall in order to give the officers time to work out the details of the new set-up.
A new constitution is being drafted for the organization, and will go into effect next year. It provides for many radical departures, especially in the method of determining membership in the organization, selection of dance chairmen, and the appointment of committees for club affairs.
Arrangements for the final wiping out of the deficit accrued by the Metropolitan Club are being handled by retiring President Andrew Maffei. Under his guidance settlements have been reached with most of the large creditors and letters have been sent to the parents of Met Club members. •' While definite results on the mail campaign are not available, it appeared that the ice had been successfully broken and that the New York organization is due for clear financial sailing.
President-Elect Letsen announced this week that plans are being made for the holding of a summer dance but they have not yet progressed beyond the tentative state.
Detroit Club Elections
Lee Moorman, who successfully backed the candidacy of Howard Cusack for senior president, went still further in the campus balloting by adding the Detroit Club presidency to his list of victories. Moorman will succeed Thomas Stringer, who held the president’s post during 1934-1935.
’ John Ullman will assist Moorman in the capacity of vice-president, Robert Hart was elected secretary, and the treasurer’s job was voted to Jerrv Schaefer.
ZMay 24, 1935
FINAL ISSUE
With the final edition come certain dispensations and privileges which we cannot refrain from greeting with pleasure. Regret marks these last slow clicks of the much-abused ‘port
able,’ but with it is mingled a feeling of relief, now that the end is nigh. The calendar gives a sly old wink to signal that our term will soon be over, the office is getting ready to assume its coat of summer dust, the gang is writing ‘heads’ and reading proof for the last time this year. All too soon these weekly rituals must cease.
It’s been a pleasurable jaunt, visiting the different spots in college-land since last fall. Now in retrospect, the highlights of the journey come back to parade once more. The encouragement of those few faithful who trudged with us so patiently all year has been sweet, nor has the contemna-tion—perhaps rightful—of those who joyed in stepping on our toes been anything but welcome. Every bit of it contributed to whatever success this effort may be considered to have attained.
Many there were who did not side with us on the matter of war. Some took afront, others attacked, still others merely smile. To all of them we submit our sincere apology for any distress they suffered. This goes, also, to all those who found our pronounced stands on other matters questionable or disagreeable. It was our attempt to disassociate all comments from references to personalities, but if in this we failed, we ask only that our lines be accepted in the spirit in which they were given.
And if, at any time, our remarks offended the student bodies of those campi which we visited, it is our hope that they will be consoled now that these words will soon be silenced.
PARTING OF THE WAYS
The grateful traveller can, in bidding his hosts farewell, give little more than verbal expression to his thankfulness. It is then to the Rev.
Professor James A. Reyniers, of the College of Science, has recently completed a biological experiment which has puzzled scientists for more than fifty years, and which may lead to the isolation of cold, influenza, and infantile paralysis germs. Guinea pigs, in which bacteria are cultivated, have been for the first time raised absolutely germ-free in the bacteriology laboratories.
The importance of this work, which culminates six years of research by Professor Reyniers lies in the fact that it permits a study of any single geiun on a living organism, heretofore considered impossible by most scientists.
The guinea pigs are bom and raised under the most ideal conditions science can devise. They are delivered in a germ free operating chamber by caesarian operation to avoid contamination, and raised in a completely air-conditioned chamber. A “glass-mothei-” feeds the pigs, a synthetic pig milk especially .prepared by Professor Reyniers.
The guinea pig estate occupies an area of sixty-four square feet in the bacteriology laboratories on the second floor of Science Hall. The compartment in which they live resembles a square diving bell, with portholes to permit inspection of the inhabitants, and ports through which sterilized rubber gloves can reach any part of the cage.
Attempts to develop a “living germ-free test tube” have been made since Pasteur first suggested it in 1880. Professor Reynier’s experiment marks the first completely successful work of this kind, and will probably open the door to research fields which were formerly considered impossible of access.
Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., that our deep appreciation goes for his kind advice and consideration; and to the men of the Publications Office our thanks for their tolerance. To John Carbine, our astute and capable editor, and to Ed Van Huisseling, the punster of the Press Box, a verbal slap on the back and best wishes for continued success. And to all those graduating Scholasticers — Bill Kennedy, Joe Bucci, Roy Scholz, Louis Hruby, “The Hoch,” Mickey Glanz-ner and Jack Flanagan a hope that we’ll meet again, and soon.
Before closing up the old noise-box let us offer a toast to the class of 1935 and, our flight ended, say to all of you, “Good luck and thanks a loti”
Seven
FR. O’HARA PRESENTS KEYS TO SCIENCE MEN
Dome Dust
By William Tonmey
WRANGLERS CELEBRATE TENTH ANNIVERSARY
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C. S. C,. President of the University, was the honored guest at the final meeting of the Academy of Science held Friday night in Science Hall. Fr. O’Hara presented keys, of the Academy to sixteen members, nine juniors and seven seniors. To be eligible for this key, a student is required to have been a member of the Academy for three semesters and must have read an acceptable paper before the organization.
Three papers were read at the final meeting. “The Nostrum Menace,” a paper dealing with the dangers of using quack medicines, was presented by Robert Ervin, a junior in the Department of Pharmacy. Norvin Casper, a junior in the Pre-Med department, read the second paper entitled “Effect of Electrical Shock on Rats.” The third paper, “Tissue Culture,” discussed some of the technique and theory involved in this phase of histology, and was given by James Coll, a senior in Pre-Med.
At the conclusion of the session, Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C. S. C., Dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy, gave a brief review of papers presented during the year, and also discussed some of the theses submitted this spring for bachelor degrees.
Father Murray’s Book To Be Published Soon
Publication of a new book, Introductory Sociology, by the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C. S. C., head of the University department of sociology has just been announced by the New York publishing house of F. S. Crofts and Co. The text, described by the firm as one “which marks an important departure in Catholic sociological literature,” will be ready by July the first.	.
The prhnary purpose of the book is to present the facts, theories and techniques of current sociology in their relation to the fundamentals of Catholic social belief. That the author has been successful may be learned from the excellent review given the book by Rt. Rev. Msgr. William J. Kerby. This well-known authority, in announcing the publication of the work, says in Commonweal for May 10:
“I know of no other text written from a Catholic standpoint in the United States that has attempted what Dr. Murray has completed. His volume has a message of the greatest significance for our Catholic seminaries, Catholic universities and colleges.”
Sight
It’s been so nice, knowing you . . . I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did . . . Honestly, no fooling, and all that sort of stuff ... You know, every column like this . . . “now is the time college paper has to end up with a
we must part” stuff ... It is traditional . . . And a swell way to fill up space . . . But, to get specific in our farewells, may we say adieu to one and all . . . And to the marginal reader . . . Also to the cop at the gate who can’t understand how convenient it would be for the cabs to drive up in front of Sorin at 11:15, F.B.T. (Father Boland’s time.) . . . To Ollie and Tom in the East dining hall, who open the doors at precisely two and a half minutes before meal time . . . Another month of it and we’d scream . . .You don’t think we would, do you . . . Well, give us another month around here and we’ll show you ... And a fond fare-thee-well to the laundry manager . ... We. feel sorry for that fellow . . . He sure took a beating this year . . . And he’s such a great fellow when you get to know him . . . But, they say every cause must have its effect (philosophy. 3a) . . . Also a parting thrust to the gang who have to work for McAllister next year ... McAllister is another great fellow, when you get to know him . . . But he isn’t very susceptible to introductions. . .
This isn’t really goodbye . . . It’s only a beginning ... You see, college is just a mile stone along the path: of . life . . .We are going out intothe world ... To make our mark . . . We won’t, of course, be welcomed with open arms . . . On.the contrary, my friends . , . Little do we know of its hardships . . . There will be pitfalls on every side of us ... To be brutally frank, we won’t know what it’s all about ... Of course, it was rather difficult, at times, to make the hall by midnight ... And it wasn’t always
• easy to call up and have someone sign
The Wranglers Society celebrated its tenth anniversary with a testimonial banquet in the Rose Marie Tea Room last Sunday night.
The occasion was honored with the presence of three past presidents: Professor William Coyne, the founder of the society and Coach of Varsity Debate at the University; Hon. Joseph P. McNamara, second president . and deputy attorney general of the \ State of Indiana; and Arthur Sandusky, eighth president and a student in the Law School. Each of the above past Wranglers reaccounted experi-
. ences during his regime. A letter from James J. Walsh of Brooklyn, the third president of the society, was read by the secretary.
The banquet, which is held annually as a farewell to departing seniors, was the last formal meeting of the following Wranglers: Arthur Korzen-eski, president; Franklyn Hochreiter, £ secretary; Thomas Proctor, John Clark and Richard Ballman. The two first men, in their remarks, turned over their chairs to the incoming officers, Eugene Malloy, president and Robert Schmelzle, secretary. Proctor, Clark and Ballman also expressed their adieus to the Wranglers.
As a particularly interesting part of the program the new chaplain was introduced to the society in the person of Rev. Norbert Hoff. Father Hoff succeeds the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who was the society’s chaplain since the founding of the group.
James Burke, Charles Boyle and . Joseph McGrath, all juniors, were the new members to be presented at the banquet.. It was .their formal initiation after having been approved by the society a/ week ago.
Arthur Korzeneski acted as toastmaster for the dinner and Franklyn Hochreiter was the chairman.
Boston Club Elections
. The results of the Boston Club elections held May 13, in Brownson “Rec” are as follows: George J. Moriarty, Lynn, Mass., president; Paschal A. Tofuri, Winchester, Mass., vice-presi- "
. dent; James W. McHugh, Fitchburg, Mass., treasurer; Bernard E. Megin, Concord, Mass., secretary.
us out ... But life will be nothing like that ... We will have two roads to take . . . One is straight stuff . . ’. The other’s as easy as all get up . . . But, beware ... Do you, my innocent seniors,, know .where that road leads you to . . . I do . . . Come up and see me some time. . .	. ; .
.	. Th e ,S c h o lds t ic
Voice of the Campus
To the Senior Class:
“One week from Sunday the members of the Senior Class of 1935 will gather togethei' for the last time- It has been a good year, a year of both achievements and disappointments, of sorrows and joys, but all in all a good year.’ The men of the class of 1935 have cooperated in every way. To them I am grateful, and I believe I echo the sentiments of the other officers of the class. This class has been unique, I believe. It has caught the spirit of the times; it has not been afraid of change. Tlu-ough all activities, the Senior Smoker, the Senior Ball, the work at the funeral of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the class has shown a splendid willingness to cooperate. In athletics, forensics, musical activities, publications, club activities, this class has been as good as the best. Out of difficulties encountered during the year have come better understanding and even greater cooperation of the men of the class.
“It is the aim of the officers of the class this yeai' to knit the class together with strong bonds, to make the men realize that they have a duty to work with one another and not foi' individual gain, to cement friendships that would be lasting, to marshall together the men who are to be representative Catholic leaders in the. world of today which is looking for leaders of the right kind. An idealistic aim perhaps—but if it has been only partly achieved the effort has-been worthwhile.
“So to the men who made the various activities possible, the Senior Ball committee, Franklyn Hochreiter and the Senior Smoker committee, John Breen, Walter Powers, Frank Holahan, Thomas Thompson, men who have handled various committees, to men who have offered their services willingly from time to time, such as Leo Hanlon, Bill Coen, Bill Hoffert, Kurt Simon, Gerald Rank, Arthur Korzeneski, William Miller, and to all the Senior Class .of 1935, the officers can only say with all sincerity and depth of feeling, “Thanks, and good luck wherever you are, whatever you do.”—Thomas G. Proctor, President, Senior Class.
Cap and Gown Distribution '
Caps and Gowns will be distributed by a representative of the E. R. Moore Company, at 4:00 p.m., Friday, May 31, and again on Saturday morning, June 1 just before Class Day exercises in Washington Hall. At the time these are distributed in the Dome room of the basement of Walsh Hall, seniors and others receiving degrees will be expected to pay the rest of the cap and gown fee.
ZMay 24, 1935
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Top of the Week
Those two fellows will do anything to get in the headlines. Hochreiter gives Korzeneski two dollars to get him a corsage to take to the St. Mary’s Ball. Korzeneski has it sent
to the Monogram Dance, where Hochreiter was not. Result: No corsage, no two dollars, and this publicity.
Bob Cavanaugh backed a candidate for president of the Senior Class, ran for chairman of S.A.C., Grand Knight of K. of C., and president of Commerce Forum. Cashes in on number four.
The men who write stuff get their last decent meal of the year at the Publications banquet. With delightful naivete and commendable optimism, the speakers all try to sell them something; Nobody buys.
Old Gold gives away ten rings to the best collectors on the campus. Toby Kramer, who could buy the ten of them without blinking, “wins” three.
Alumni’s Mr. Weiss continues to hold weekly meetings of his riding and driving club. Each Sunday the officers and members ride across the countryside—alone.
Carideo, with a steady home-stretch drive, just passes Solari in the wear-the-monogram-sweater marathon.
•
Mention
Those who have helped us out with the column, especially the ones who began: “Here he comes, don’t say anything—” And then: “Say, did you hear about. ...”
The seminarian who answered our distress signal for a certain book at a certain time. There are very few of these gentlemen.
Paul Foley and his Met Club story, which will be just as good next year. With Letsen as president, we don’t see why it shouldn’t be better. We mean the story, not the club.
Bob Shanahan, whose pastor once said he had more common sense than
any other fellow in Mt. Clemens, but who will probably get along despite such a damning description. Baby talc, powder puff and all, he’s one of the most quiet and lovable graduates of the year. He hit a triple last week. He has alfalfa hair and owes us eight bucks. Good luck—particularly on the eight bucks matter.
Miscellaneous
It is easier to register now than it was four years ago.
The collapse of the dock last year made us very happy. We did not like the structure. It dispensed splinters too readily.
The folding of the Juggler was the year’s saddest event. Humor, hitherto written, became vocal, and that is usually too bad.
Who remembers the 1933 Army game? A chap by the name of Baker?
Then, of course, there are the new buildings, and new streetlights, and post office, and radio station. The latter hasn’t really started as yet, but with a little student help next year it should grow a great deal. Maybe we can take the network away from O’Keefe some night.
And the emancipation of our neighbors across the way, and its opposite effect upon us.
The Blue Circle, we are pleased to note, now not only does not do anything, but does not mean anything.
•
Finis
Now if you others will run off and study for your exams, we’ll concentrate on the seniors, who from this date on will have a lot of spare minutes.
We’re going out, it seems. A bunch of us, but we’re not so important, you know. Haven’t you heard? They’re going out all over the world, many others. But never mind them—we’re different. We’re men now—morally-informed men. Trees, growing strong, waiting to be chopped down. That’s Miltonic, that thought.
But we’re graduates, aren’t we? Much obliged for the education. It was nice of you all. Really it was. Hope to come back some time.
What’s that, mister? No jobs? Why, there must be some mistake. They told us there’d be jobs. Oh, only positions, you say. Well, let’s see—we’ll take three of your best. Beg pardon? It’s noon already? Go ’way and let us sleep. ’Still early. We’re young yet. There’s time and time and time and time.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE________________________Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI_____________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____:_____________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY.__________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr____________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN___________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. H.UFNAGEL______________i__Assistant Neivs Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI____________________FREDERICK SHANLEY
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE------------FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH__________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS__________________HARRY A. BALDWIN
JOHN A. GILLESPIE.---------------;__GREGORY BYRNES
HAROLD WILLIAMS_______________;________JOHN HURLEY
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER____________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN.____________________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT.________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen._____________________Andrew crowe
ARCH GOTT---------------------------ALLEN F. BRIDE
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY___:__________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^blkdiate $ress
(SnlcQUlfcIDigcst 1935 e-
MADlSOW	WISCONSIN
May 24, 1935
SONG OF OURSELVES
That this, the twenty-sixth number of the sixty-eighth volume of The Scholastic, is the last issue of the 1934’35 school year probably means little to the majority of students on campus. To the small group who produced the twenty-six Scholastics this year, however, it represents the culmination of a year’s hard and sincere effort. We leave impressed, not at all, by the fact that we can dummy pages and write headlines. We have been, on the other hand, almost awed by the constant/loyalty to The Scholastic of the reporters on the news and sports staffs. These men write The Scholastic. An occasional byline is their only glory. And yet week after, week they come to the regular Friday night meetings and receive their assignments. Issue after issue they wrote their stories and wrote them well. It may.be said that these men were
Ten
working for self-improvement, but we know that there was something far deeper and finer than that.
To our managing editor and valued friend, Ed Van Huisseling, we offer our sincere thanks. To call Van a Managing Editor is to draw a very sharp distinction for he performed all the duties of a co-editor. To the 1935’36 editor, John Moran and to his first assistant, Joe Prendergast we offer our editorial blessing.
The Scholastic’s year has been a pleasant one, but hardly a calm one. Most of the current abuses about campus we thought too insignificant and too petty to be given publicity. Some of the major abuses—such as the condition of some clubs—could not pass unnoticed. Our policy of giving their affairs full publicity brought several violent repercussions. Now that it is all over, we are still sure that we were right in our determination to keep hypocrisy out of our columns.
After four years on campus, one grows to love Notre Dame. A man cannot help it because Notre Dame is his university, and, after four campus years, every student is sure that it is a good university. It is then with a mingled feeling of rejoicing and regret that we leave Notre Dame. Rejoicing because we have been so fortunate as to spend four years here, and regret because we are about to leave Notre Dame and about to terminate some fine friendships with Notre Dame men.	■
A GRAVE RESPONSIBILITY
One of the most difficult problems of those running a university is the preservation of its good name. The reputation of the University depends not so much upon how efficient and exemplary the administration is, but upon the type of men it turns out as graduates. .
- Notre Dame may do all she can. She may train ninety-five percent of her students to be perfect Catholic gentlemen. Her scientists may make new and important discoveries; her scholars may delve deep into ancient lore. And yet the few who have not taken full advantage of their training may counteract all this progress and leave an unwarranted unfavorable impression of Notre Dame.
Take the case of a student from a town with a population of five thousand. The inhabitants of the village know that Notre Dame is in Indiana, that the Army game is played in the Yankee Stadium, and that John Blow goes there to. college. If John can. answer all the questions and his conduct is emulative, then Notre Danie is apodic-tically a great school.:' If John slips on one or more of the answers and his conduct is; afbit questionable, then Notre Dame is slipping. ;	.
Perhaps this, is unfair to Notre Dame., Perhaps every student should not serve as an ambassador at large. But the point is that every student does, and that there is a grave responsibility attached to the student’s boast, “I’m a Notre Dame man.” y
. The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
GOPHERS
Contracts were signed yesterday for a two game home and home series between Notre Dame and Minnesota, thus continuing the traditional policy of meeting the nation’s strongest grid teams. The newly-signed agreement calls for a Notre Dame appearance in Minnesota in 1937, with the Gophers returning here on Oct. 29 the following year.
The Irish have met Minnesota teams under the former Gopher coach, Doc Spears, three times; In 1925 and 1926 Notre Dame was victorious, but was tied by the Norsemen on Cartier Field in 1927, 7 to 7. This was the first time Notre Dame failed to win a game on the historic Cartier Field sod since 1905. Herb Joesting crashed over from the three yard line to draw the Gophers abreast of the Irish in a game fought during a typical Indiana blizzard.
- •
JINX BROKEN
Friday evening no one would have believed it. Saturday morning they said it was impossible. With eight events remaining on the card they were moaning that the Pitt jinx was still dogging the Irish. Then, with little ado; Nick’s trackmen stepped out and picked up points with amazing consistency. The jinx was drawn and quartered and Notre Dame supremacy over the Panthers was reestablished 67 to 59.
Arvel Fleming, dusky Panther, did his best to prevent Nick’s broad jumpers from scoring a slam in their event, but his ef-■ forts bore no fruit. Perhaps the Pitt ace was a bit weary after scoring fifteen points with firsts in the 100 yard dash, low hurdles, and 220 yard dash. The accomplishment assured him of high scoring honors.
It' looked like the same old story when Tost took the lead in the opening event, the mile run, and led the field around the four lap journey to . get the visitors off on the right foot.
-Arch Gott hit a new high for (Continued on'Page 19)
NOTRE DAME SMASHES PANTHER SPELL WITH TRACK VICTORY LAST SATURDAY
Coach John Nicholson He smiled and smiled.
IRISH GOLFING STREAK IS BROKEN BY LOSS TO NORTHWESTERN
The Irish golfers suffered their initial defeat in three years of . dual play on May 11th, bowing to Northwestern 11% -9% on the Kildeer course in Evanston. Bill Flynn, the Purple’s leader, sank a 10-foot putt on the last green to prevent a deadlock. Notre Dame’s superb record of twenty-one consecutive victories was started in the season of 1932. Coach . Payseur’s divotees came through to win the best ball matches 3% to 2%, and the individual frame 8 to 7.
Win Day led the field in scoring with a 68—- two under par—, while Cole captured the runner-up place with a 72. Bob Saielli topped the Wildcat shooters by checking in with a 73 card, one stroke behind Cole.
Another triumphal march was inaugurated by Notre Dame’s repre-sentativeson the fairways last Friday, when they eked out a 7%-4% decision at the expense of Michigan State. There was but a total of four single matches played, with Win Day and Captain Johnny Banks forging ahead to capture high tally honors of the afternoon. It marked the final appearance of the Irish this spring on foreign greens. •
MICHIGAN STATE DOWNED
By Gene Vaslett
The Pittsburgh domination o f Notre Dame athletic teams was overthrown last Saturday in a track meet in which the Irish forged ahead in the last few events to win by a score of 67-59. This was the first Notre Dame victory in any sport over Pitt in three . years and the Irish were hard pressed to secure it.
The meet was filled with record shattering performances by members of both teams. When the action was over nine meet records had been broken, two Cartier Field records were established, and one meet and one field record were tied. The two outstanding records were turned in by Captain Vince Murphy and Don Elser in the high jump and shot put respectively. Murphy cleared six feet 5% inches on the high bar and Elser hurled the shot 51 feet 1% inches.
Fleming, dusky Pitt star, turned in the best individual performance of the day by outdistancing everybody in the 100 and 220 yard dashes and the 220 low hurdles. Elser took second place in individual honors by scoring eight points during the meet. Elser assured Irish victory by placing second in the low hurdles, trailing Fleming by three yards.	.
Leo MacFarlane triumphed in the two mile run being closely followed by Gott, but Mac had to be satisfied with a third in the mile run which was won by the lanky Wagonhouser of Pitt.
The Irish led in the early moments of the meet and then relinquished the lead when the Panthers scored 25 out of 27 points in three events. The Notre Dame team then succeeded in tying the meet up once more at 54 all with but two events left, the broad jump and the low hurdles. A clean sweep in the broad jump and a second and third in the low hurdles assured the Irish of their first victory over Pitt in three years.
- Michigan State Meet
The Irish tracksters journeyed to Michigan State May 11 to engage the (Continued on Page 18)	'
Way 24, 1935
Eleven
NEW BURKE MEMORIAL TROPHY
DIAMOND HEN BEATEN
DONATED TO GOLF CHAMPIONS
BY WISCONSIN BADGERS *
When Win Day, a member of the Junior class, won the University golf championship for the third consecutive time this past fall, he also won permanent possession of the William J. Burke Memorial Trophy, which had been donated by Mrs. Burke in memory of her late husband. This left future golf champions without a suitable award to crown their efforts.
was made. Father Holderith carried out all the details of the plaque with the engravers.
The plate containing this delicate map engraving is ten and a half inches deep, and fourteen inches wide, excluding the border. The reproduction of the course is large enough so that the name of each winner, which under a novel arrangement is to be
The Notre Dame baseball club continued to be a paradox to its coach and supporters by preserving its reputation of winning the return engagement with any team which has defeated it this year. Presenting a revised and bolstered hitting attack, Notre Dame traveled to Evanston on Wednesday, May 14, and tamed the Wildcats of Northwestern, 10 - 8. Frankie Gaul continued his sensational hitting spree by getting a triple and a single. Al Costello, all-around utility man of the Notre Dame team, punched out three hits, one of them a triple, to lead the 12-hit assault which revenged a previous defeat by the Northwestern club.
The Notre Dame sluggers unwrapped their war clubs and swung lustily at the offerings of Purdue’s ace pitchers and when the final count was recorded, the Irish had won a 13-4 victory, last Saturday. The old formula of never losing twice to the same team was upheld by the murderer’s row of Gaul, Pilney and Costello who collected seven hits among them including two doubles and a home run.
Previous to these games, Notre Dame dropped a 7-6 decision to the Badgers of Wisconsin on Tuesday, May 14. . After throwing away the customary early inning lead, the Irish tossed in six errors to aid Wisconsin in defeating them.
Notre Dame (6)
Wisconsin (7)
ABRHPA	AB R H PA
Cunha, 2b 4 Went’th.ss 4 Mettler, cf 5 Pilney, rf 4 Gaul, e 3 Dunn, lb 4 Fromh’t,3b 3
Sepe, If 2 Velcheck.lf 1
Themes, p 3
1 0 0
3 1 0
0 0
0 1
0 2 2
3
2 1 0.
0
1 1
1 2 N’trom.s 2 2 Ferris,3b 1 0 C’lson.lf 1 0 Heyer,2b 6 3 Gerl’k.cf 8 OlDeM’k.rf 3 OlWag’r.lb 1 01 R’done.c 0 01 Tomek.p 0 21 P’rson.p — I -
3 2
5 1
3 1
4 2
3 1
4 0
4 0
4 0
2 0
2 0
0 12 116 13 0
2 3 3 2 2 1 0 2 0 113 0 12 2 0 0 0 0 0 3
Totals ___33 612 24 91 Totals ..34 7 8 27 17
Errors—Cunha, Mettler (2), Fromhart (2), Sepe. Two base hits—Carlson, Pilney. Three base hits — Gaul, Gerlack. Struck out — by Themes 4, Pearson 1, Tomek 1. Base on balls —off Themes 4, Pearson 4: Double plays— .Ferris to Wagner. Wild pitch—Themes. Winning pitcher—Tomek. Umpires—Schuler and
Wootton.
Mrs. Burke announced that she would offer another trophy to replace the one that Day had captured, and several suggestions were offered as to the form of the new award. The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the golf team, proposed that the trophy take the form of a metal plaque, suitably mounted on a •wooden shield, on which was to be engraved a topographical .map of the golf course. Jerome Cushing, senior in the College of Engineering, headed a group of five classmates who did the surveying and constructed a map, from which the reproduction on the trophy
engraved on the award, will be easily legible. The first 18 University champions will have their names engraved on the near greens, the second group of 18 winners will be inscribed on the tees, and the third group will be listed on the fairways. The process will then be repeated, so that in all 108 University Golf Champions, in addition to the scores they chalk up, and the years they accomplish their feats, will be engraved on the award.
Around the plate is a raised border, 7-16 of an inch thick, which is designed to give the engraving the ap-(C'jntinued on Page 18)
Notre Dame (10)
AB R H P A
G'unha,2b.. 6	2	2	2	3
Went’th.ss 5	0	110
Mettler, cf 4	1	0	0	0
Pilney, If 5 12 4 0
Gaul, c 5	0	2	3	2
Dunn, lb 1	0	0	4	0
Costello, lb 5	1	3	8’	1
Reagan, 3b 2	2	0	1	4
Mathews,rf 4 2 12 0
Totals ____41 10 12 27 15
Northwestern (8) AB R H P A Col’ns,3b 5 2 2 1 0 Hen’ff.2b 4 110 2 Merell.ss 4 1 1 3 1 Ped’n.rf 4 12 2 0 A’q’ist,cf 5 0 2 0 0 Clab’rn.c 4 118 0 Shan’n.lf 5 0 0 1 0 Walsh.lb 5 1 012 0 K’bell.p 2 0 10 6 Woods,p 2 110 2
Totals -.40 81127 11
Errors — Wentworth, Dunn, Costello (2), Hentikoff, Mereli (2), Claborn. Two base bits —Collins, Tourney, Cunha; Three base hits— Costello, Gaul; Sacrifice hits — Wentworth, Hentikoff, Shanahan; Stolen bases—Mettler, Pilney; Struck out by—Tourney, 3 ; Woods, 3 : Kimbell, 3 ; Base on balls—off Tourney, 3 ; off Woods, 5; off Kimbell, 3 ; Hit by pitcher— Reagan by Woods. -Wild pitches—Woods. Losing pitcher—Kimbell. Umpire Stack.
(Continued on Page 19)
The Scholastic
Twelve
MARQUETTE TRACKMEN SHOW HERE TOMORROW
Wisconsin and Michigan State Remain on Baseball Schedule
By Arch Gott
Fresh front their victorious meet with Pittsburgh, the Irish tracksters will tangle with Marquette at Cartier Field on May 25. The last time the two teams met was indoors when the Nickmen squeezed through to a 48-47
Capt. Vince Murphy His final home appearance.
win so there should be plenty of’fur flying in Saturday’s get-together.
Notre Dame appears to be the favorite in this encounter because of powerful added strength in the field events. Elser, Michuta and Cummings are all scoring heavily in the shot-put and discus. The hurdles will be closely contested with Layden appearing to have the edge on Pandjiris of Marquette in the highs. Don Elser will make another appearance in the low sticks and should be able to plunge along ahead of the field. Big Don has shown surprising form and has a driving finish which will aid him tomorrow.
In the middle distance, Jessel and Beckett of Marquette in the quarter and half-mile runs will be pushed to the limit by Bernard and Sheils of Notre Dame. The two mile run will see O’Neil of the Hilltoppers, Central A.A.U. 3000 meter champion, pressed closely by McFarland and Gott of the Irish with an upset due to arise.
Phillips of Marquette who nearly beat his famous team-mate Metcalfe here last year, stands out in the 100 and 220 yard dashes but Irish runners should score at least seconds and thirds in each of these races.
The following Saturday, June 1, finds the Notre Dame team playing host to the Indiana state meet. Squads from Purdue, Indiana, Butler, and (Continued on Page 19)
Notre Dame Racquet Weilders Set Down In Three Contests
By John Glanzner
The string of Notre Dame tennis victories came to an abrupt end when the Irish were trounced in three consecutive matches by Michigan State, Ohio State, and Illinois.
Misfortune overtook the Irish in the Michigan State meet when Joe Waldron twisted his ankle in the crucial doubles match and was forced to default. After splitting the six singles matches, the men of Notre Dame lost the doubles matches to bow in defeat 6-3.
Captain Frank Weldon came through with his usual brilliant play to down, the ranking State player, Klaisinger in a bitterly contested three set duel, 9-7, 4-6, 6-3. Joe Prendergast had little difficulty in overcoming Eissler in straight sets 6-4, 6-3. Bill Fallon accounted for the third and final Irish win. McNulty and Cannon matched stroke for stroke with O’Dell and Eissler only to weaken in the decisive third set and lose 3-6, 6-3, 4-6.
After’ the Michigan State defeat the Notre Dame aces journeyed to Columbus only to lose decisively to the highly-touted Buckeyes of Ohio State 8-0. This time it was Bill Fallon who suffered a sprained ankle to hamper the chances of the Irish for victory.
From Columbus the Irish packed up their racquets and embarked for Champaign and Illinois, the team that had tied Northwestern earlier in the season.
Notre Dame, forced to play without three of her outstanding stars, again suffered defeat 7-0. The ankle jinx still prevailed and Waldron and Fallon were unable tb play. In addition to the loss of these two men, the deLandero charges lacked Ed Bur-chart, who had been suddenly called home.
Undaunted the Irish played their best in a vain attempt to gain victory. McNulty, in particular, shone in his match with Mclnich, undefeated in collegiate tennis circles this year. Joe Prendergast was unable to maintain his early lead and fell victim to the smashes of Hicks 7-5, 8-6. Captain Weldon showed a reversal of form and was downed by Lewers 6-2, 6-3.
IRISH OUT FOR REVENGE
By Cy Stroker
On May 31 and June 1 the Notre Dame baseball team will wind up its season in return games with Wisconsin and Michigan State. So far Kline’s charges have ten wins chalked up to their credit to offset their six
Joe Underkofler He hears the corn grow.
losses. Both of the nines that encounter the Irish next week succeeded in finishing on top in previous contests, although the margins in both cases were small.
May 14, the Irish travelled to Madison where they engaged in a contest that ended in a pitched battle. The fight ended in a draw but the Wisconsin group won the ball game 5-4. The Madison men have not made a very imposing record this year, so that Notre Dame’s defeat can be safely regarded as an upset. If Themes, Beach, Tourney et all. can hold the Wisconsin sluggers to a small number of hits, Jake Kline and his cohorts have little to worry about in next Friday’s game. The Madison hurlers are not generally known to be kings of the mound in spite of then- ability to throw a wicket right.
The last game of the season, that with Michigan State, should prove an interesting contest for the graduation visitors as well as for the players. Here is a team that has consistently beaten the Irish in the last few games in which they have participated with Notre Dame. The one point advantage with which the team from East Lansing whipped the Klinemen is no indication of their ability. Michigan State is an all around good club that features consistently strong batting and air-tight fielding. If Notre Dame wants to round out its season with a victory in this quarter, it will have to put out its best brand of ball for nine straight innings.
If the Irish make a reasonsably (Continued on Pase 19)
SMay 24, 1935
Thirteen ‘
INTRODUCING
CENTRAL AND NATIONAL TRACK MEET FOR N. D.
By Joe Prendergast
“Come in,” droned a lazy voice from the second floor, northwestern cornered room of 202 Corby Hall and your correspondent entered to find Francis Joseph Weldon sleepily conversing with his roommate, Gene O’Reilly. The dwelling was filled with a tennis atmosphere — four recently born robins were peeking over the nestled security of their circular
abode on the western window sill, racquets were in abundance, even the boy above entered into the spirit of the affair by thumping ferociously on the floor, love was written over the pictures on the wall and in general the air was tennisy and then some.
Francis Joseph Weldon, for those amongst the students who chanced to miss the fine tennis matches waged by the team this year, is captain of the Tacquet-wielders. His home is in New Rochelle, New York—15 miles from New York City—where Frank was born on December 8, 22 years ago.
Jim Sheils, the stellar 880 yard track man, was Frank’s classmate at Iona Prep for four years. Frank played two years of baseball at Iona, two of football, two of basketball and oddly enough only one year of tennis —his most proficient sport. Concerning his prep school football days, Frank was a quarterback and was guiding the team in that historic engagement with Georgetown Prep in 1930 which ended in a 12 to 12 tie.
Frank Hunter, noted professional, used to work out on a court nearby
Captain Weldon’s home and often during dull moments Frank would watch the master professional perform. As a result when Weldon was a sophomore at Iona Prep he started playing tennis and took to the game like a radical orator does to soap boxes. The only coaching Frank ever received was from the tennis captains of Fordham and Holy Cross who were
counsellors at a summer camp which Frank attended. As a senior he won the Iona Prep tennis championship and might have won it in the two previous years when he had advanced to the semi-final rounds only to have rain and cold weather cause the tourney to be called off. Frank won trophies for being finalist in the city tournament in 1933 and ’34. •
Captain Louis Chreist of the University’s 1932-33 racquet combine asked sophomore Weldon to play with the team after Frank had eliminated two varsity members in the annual fall . tournament. Frank triumphed in his first competitive match against Valparaiso 6-0, 6-0, only ten points were scored against him that day in two sets the official scorecard shows. During the course of the campaign Frank competed in six individual matches and came out victorious in four of them for a most impressive record.
In the fall of 1933, Frank teamed up with Bill Fallon to annex the doubles championship of the school. Last fall he won the singles cham-(Continued on Pane IS)
By Jim McMullen
Coach John Nicholson has a lot on his mind these days. Following the all-important Marquette meet, the Irish trackmen will compete in the state get-together June 1, and then proceed to the Central Intercollegi-ates starting June 21.
In discussing the Central Intercol-legiates, Nick expressed a fair amount of optimism. His men will face representatives from every school in the Big Ten except Michigan, as well as from all the major free lance competitors. Pittsburgh State Teachers, and the Emporia State Teachers from out Kansas way seem to be among .the strongest of the squads entered. Nicholson plans to send to Marquette all the men who have had any degree of success in the state meet.
A lot depends bn the coming actions of Bernard and McFarlane. A bad foot has hampered the quarter miler in practice sessions, and there is a slight possibility that he may have to withdraw. Meagher, Elser, and Murphy look especially strong at Marquette. Together with any break in the mile and half mile relays, these three men should assure the Irish of a position very near the top, if not the actual bunting carriers.
Out at Berkeley, it’s a different proposition. Coach Nicholson will wait till the very last minute before selecting the personnel of the squad bound west. Right now it looks like Meagher has cinched his right to compete in the broad jump. Captain Vince Murphy will, be there to high jump, for according to Nick, he is right now the potential champion of the United States. He has only to duplicate his feats of almost every afternoon in the Notre Dame gymnasium.; Big Don Elser with his heave of the sixteen pound shot, 51 feet, % inch, is not far behind the record toss of the current year by Dees, of Kansas, of 51 feet, 7 inches. Don will also face such star performers as Ticknor of Oklahoma, Reynolds of Stanford, and the powerful Theo-doratus of Washington State.
The makeup of the rest of the squad, if Nick decides to take more is very uncertain. Leo McFarlane, sound legs and all, has been improving steadily, and should be at top peak by the time of the big national show. Bernard, minus his tough racing luck, might be allowed to pack up for the trip, as well as the best representative-from the ranks of the half milers.
1
,4
Fourteen
The Scholastic
BALL TOSSERS ADD WIN AND LOSS TO RECORD
Notre Datne Golfers Seek Revenge For Last Pittsburgh Upheaval
By Al Bride
On May 8 the Notre Dame baseball team dropped a 10-7 decision to Northwestern, but three days later displayed brilliant form in downing the crack Western State Teachers 7-4. The first game was characterized by an abundance of base hits which were
Vic Mettler He’ll be a Tiger.
climaxed by a five run rally on the part of the Wildcats in the sixth inning. In the latter game both teams gave a beautiful exhibition of baseball by fielding cleanly, hitting sharply, and running the bases in heads up style.
In the Northwestern game the Irish jumped off to an early lead by scoring two runs in both the first and third innings. The Wildcats broke into the scoring column with a counter in the fourth, but Notre Dame came back with three tallies to seemingly put the game on ice. The Wildcats went down in order in the fifth, but when the dust cleared at the end of the fifth inning they had blasted Tourney from the * mound and were trailing by only one run. At this time Woods replaced Lennstaedt for Northwestern and held the Irish at bay for the remainder of the game. The eighth inning found the Wildcats clawing three of Jake Kline’s pitchers for five runs and the ball game. In this game Mettler boosted his batting average by collecting four hits out of four trips to the plate. Shanahan lead the Wildcats with three for five.
On the following Saturday the teachers from Kalamazoo were set down for the second time this season by the Irish. Slow bailer Joe Beach started for Notre Dame and pitched effectively until the seventh inning when Coach Klein sent in Red Tourney to hold off any scoring threats of the teachers. Western State scored once in the first and twice in the fourth, but the Irish came back in (Continued on Paste 19)
Howard Hall Victors In Interhall League Championship Playoff
By Mike Crowe
Rallying to score three runs in the last half of the seventh inning, the Howard nine edged out St. Ed’s 8-7 in the championship game of Interhall baseball played on Cartier Field, Tuesday, May 21.
Puplis, St. Ed’s pitcher, was hit hard throughout the game. He managed to pitch good ball in the pinches until the eventful seventh. With the bases filled and two out, Zarantello lined a single to center field to tie the score. Belden then followed with a single to win the game for Howard.
Dunn lasted but three innings for Howard. His successor, Maher, limited the St. Edward sluggers to one run. Maher received credit for the victory. He also started the vanning rally by slamming out a long triple.
Megin and Bonner of St. Ed’s and O’Neil of Howard walloped out home runs. However, Phil Clark, fleet Howard center fielder won the batting honors. He lined out three successive doubles in four trips to the plate. He also played brilliantly in the field.
The teams of the two groups in the elimination tournament finished in the following order.
The Standings
Group 1	Won	Lost
St. Edward's ......... 5	1
Sorin ................ 4	2
Alumni _______________ 2	3
Lyons ______________   2	3
Morrissey ____________ 2	3
Badin ...............  1	1
Group 2	Won	Lost
Howard _______________ 5	0
Freshman _____________ 4	X
Carroll ______________ 3	2	.
Dillon .............  2
Brownson _____________ 1	I
Corby ...............  0	5
Group 1 was thrown into a tie when Sorin won three in a row to tie St. Ed’s. St. Ed’s only loss was to Badin, although Badin finished in the cellar. St. Ed’s won the play-off from Sorin, 8-1.
This is the first complete schedule played in Hall baseball since 1929. There was much interest throughout as shown by the fact that the schedule was closed on time in spite of two successive rainy Sundays.
The statistics of the championship game follow:
RHE St. Edwards ...... 2 1 3 1 0 0 0—7 10 2 Howard ------ 1 0 3 1 0 0 3—8 14 2
Puplis and Bonner. Riley: Dunn. Maher and Nigro.
STATE MEET ON MAY 31
By John Cackley
Encountering extremely stiff opposition from all sides, the Irish golfers will go into the final stages of the current season. Tomorrow will find them entertaining Pitt on the local greens, while from May 31 until June 1 Notre Dame will play host to the Indiana State Meet on the William J. Burke Memorial course. Although not definitely announced it is hoped that the Gold and .Blue will be represented with a contingent at the National Intercollegiates.
Little is known concerning the relative strength of the Panthers this year, except that they hold a high rank in eastern college circles. Their most impressive showing to date has consisted mainly in deadlocking the count with Detroit—a team that Johnny Banks and his mates experienced no difficulty with. An unusual incident cropped out in the setto ’ against Pitt held three years back, on the latters’ fairway. Using a new method of tallying—one point being awai'ded for each match instead of the customary three, as in the Nassau system — the Smoky City lads unofficially garnered a 4-2 decision, which should have been handed to Notre Dame on a 10-8 basis.
Invitations have been mailed out to the leading colleges of Indiana for the State Meet to be held here on the University course, starting the last of May. Commencement visitors will be afforded a rare treat in seeing the top-notch golfers of this section battle for the championship crown. Fox' the past several seasons the Irish, entering a full team, have completely dominated festivities and are expected ‘ to repeat even better this month.
The National Intercollegiates — symbolic of scholastic golfing supremacy—will be enacted for 1935 in Washington, D. C., the last week of June. As yet there has been no sanction by the Faculty Board of athletics, concerning the possibility of the Irish varsity pax-ticipating. Always in the past Notre Dame’s ‘niblick swingers’ have given a remarkable account of theix' prowess in these meets. A notable recollection is that of Captain Johnny Banks, who last spring went to the quarterfinals at Cleveland, losing out to Ed White of Texas on the 37th hole. The first two days will be entirely devoted to team play activities, playing a medal score. The low four at the completion of the second denotes each man’s position. The remaining time will be taken up with individual performances—qualifying for it in team play.
3\day 10, 1935
F if teen
---------------
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
Can't resist tipping you off that the Gold Cup given the winner of the KENTUCKY DERBY each year is actually worth $5,000 . . . whereas the Stanley Cup in pro hockey is worth only $75 and the much heralded America’s Cup of yachting is worth only $500 . . . Down St. Petersburg, Fla. way they have their own
ideas on baseball . . . Twice weekly, a couple of ball teams composed of no players younger than 75, meet to battle it out . . . and don’t think they can’t draw ’em . . . Recently GERARD B. LAMBERT paid $50,000 for the Yankee, America’s Cup Yacht, that cost $525,000 to build in 1930, and $250,000 to renovate last year. . . . Some bargain, but then, it is rumored that you can buy the ENTERPRICE, Cup campaigner for the New York Yacht club for $25,000 now. . . . and it cost them $1,000,000 to build her . . . They’ve perfected a new type tennis ball now . . . has a knitted cover that its designers claim will far outlast the current sphere. . . . JIMMY BRADDOCK, present fot of the smiling Maxie, comes from a family of five fighting brothers . . . RALPH DEPALMA has driven 4,061 miles in competition on the auto speedway at Indianapolis . . . RALPH MULFORD is next with 4,009 miles.
ATLANTA and MOBILE in the Southern League played a baseball game in 1910 that took only 32 minutes, the latter winning 2 to 1 . . . a total of 9,470 horses competed at the various tracks throughout the United States last year . . . Only two perfect “No Hitters” have been pitched in the big leagues . . . ADDIE ROSS performed this feat in 1908 and CHARLEY ROBERTSON in 1922 . . . STANISLAUS ZBYSZKO is the Rabbit Maranville of the mat. . . . the famous Polish wrestler is still engaged in competition down in Argentine though he is said to be 64 years old . . , JOE HOOD is the Stroke man for the Navy crew ... if you don’t believe ask the generous treasurer of that institution ... a starboard rigged shell had to be built for Joe that cost 1,400 bananas . . . while Harvard men themselves build the shells used against their oppon
ents . . . EARLE SANDE made $500,000 during his career as a jockey ... In one year alone he earned about $80,000 . . . COLGATE pigskinners are all set to travel 9,100 miles next fall . . . Twenty-four of the twenty-seven men who have held the welterweight boxing championship since 1892 are still alive . . . especially JIMMY McLARNIN, the Belting Boy from Vancouver . . . GEORGE LOTT played almost every night for three and one half months during his recent pro tennis tour . . . yet George finished weighing more than when he started . . . BILL CARR, Pennsylvania’s great runner, will never run again ... so he has turned into one of the best tennis players in the Philadelphia district. . . . The MELLON STUART baseball team, of Pittsburgh, is believed to be the only semi-professional club ever to make a Florida training trip . . . their sponsor is NED MELLON, son of Andrew. . .
YOUNG JACK GIBBONS, a middleweight who has won 47 fights, is the son of MIKE GIBBONS and the nephew of TOMMY GIBBONS, both famous fighters of some years back. . . . Ever hear of a bowling marathon? ... At Milwaukee in 1930, GEORGE KINDER bowled 362 games in 50 hours and 28 minutes, averaging 149 per game . . . George lost 14 pounds during his good time in the alleys . . . The International League is carrying extra player strength this season . . . because of early postponements the concession has been made to the clubs ... in order that they may carry an extra pitcher . . . AL LOPEZ and MANUEL ONIS, Brooklyn catchers, are from Ybor City, Fla., and both speak Spanish . . . CONNIE MACK has one southpaw hurler this year . . . He’s VERNON WILSHIRE, who won 18 of the 19 games he formally hurled for Indiana University ... In high school, the Lefty pitched foui’ no-hit games . . . JACK McAULIFFE successfully defended the lightweight boxing title in 52 contests before he retired undefeated in 1893 . . . JACK ROTHROCK, Cardinal outfielder, played nine different positions on a baseball club during the 1928 season.
Representatives from 14 nations will answer the call of the Olympiad for the deaf and dumb to be held in London next August . . . There will be competition in track, soccer, cycling, and tennis . . . GAR WOOD, JR. is a chip off the old block. The 17-year-old speed boat driver won the intercollegiate title last year . . . For your information, ALDO NADI is one of the most famous of the Italian swordsmen, and Aldo won his first senior tournament at the age of 13 . . . since then he has captured the honors 53 times . . . Only two jockeys have won the Kentucky Derby two years in succession . . .
TIME DRAWS NEAR FOR NAT. INTER SCHOLASTICS
By John I. Flanagan
Commencement weekend, May 31 and June 1, the University of Notre Dame will play host to the various Catholic high schools, throughout the	.
nation, for the second annual Notre Dame Interscholastic track and field championships.
<- I
The large entry last year and the fine performances assures the meet a success both for this year and for succeeding years. More than two hundred athletes from twenty-four high schools competed last year for the team championships and the re-	i
lays; the trophies in each section going to West Catholic High School of Philadelphia.
The purpose of the meet was to inaugurate a Catholic meet which would bring together the best men in their respective fields. The stimulation of interest in this sport is the primary interest of this meet. The visitors last year were enabled as they will be this year to be “Notre Dame men” for two days, to live on the campus as students do, and to study first hand the life of the students of the University of Notre Dame.
Last year being the first meet all winners became record holder, but despite the fine records it is very probable that some of them will be in the discard when the meet ends next Saturday afternoon.
The meet will be run at two o’clock Saturday, June 1, with the Commencement baseball game with Mich-	* r |
igan State carded for 3:30 o’clock.
Following are the new teams so far entered: Roger Bacon high school of Cincinnati, St. John’s high school of Philadelphia, Good Counsel high school of Newark, N. J.; Cretin high school of St. Paul, Minn.; St. Augustine high school of Kalamazoo, Mich., Topeka Catholic high school of Topeka, Kans.; and St. Ambrose high school of Davenport, Iowa.
The repeaters so far are: St.
Mary’s high school, Columbus, Ohio; ' I West Catholic high school of Philadelphia, last year’s winners; Aquinas high school of LaCrosse, Wis.; St.
Rita high school of Chicago; De La Salle Institute of Chicago; De Paul academy of Chicago; Mt. Carmel high school of Chicago; Decatur (Ind.) Catholic high school; St. Bede academy of Peru, Ill.; Marmion preparatory of Aurora, Ill.; Fenwick high school of Ooak Park, Hl.; and St. Thomas Military academy, St. Paul.
Minn.	i
• i’Q
Sixteen
The Scholastic
1
I	KT •
f	notice
The barber shop will be open after pper on Monday, Tuesday and Wed-•3ay next week until 8 o’clock. We ank you for your patronage and ish all a lot of luck.
The Monogram Formal, held at the dais Royale, Thursday evening, ay 16, was an outstanding success, ore than 225 couples danced to the usic of Johnny Davis’ orchestra, diet from the Netherland-Plaza.
Bill Lord Outstanding interhall athlete.
N. C. P. Convention
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Litt.D., editor of The Are Maria is attending the National Catholic Press convention, being held this year at Atlanta, Georgia. The convention is in session from May 23 to Maj- 25. Catholic editors from all over the United States are present as it is considered the foremost outlet for Catholic discussion in the field of journalism in the world.
Rhode Island Club ;
At a meeting held Friday, May 1(A in the Commerce building, the Rhode* Island club elected John Desmond oD Fall River, president. Russell Hum;' of Woonsocket was made vice-presi-; dent; John Sullivan of Fall River:' secretary, and Bernard Curtin otj. Woonsocket, treasurer.	'
A short discussion, on plans for the'; annual summer dance followed th/ elections.
NOW!
America treats you to new h luxuries in
TOURIST CLASS TO
• The magnificent swimming pool pic- •' cured above is only one of the amazing ■. Tourist Class luxuries offered by America’s ' new sensations of the sea! The Wash-ington and Manhattan, America’s fastest . liners, are completely modern, providing ? ’ every modern feature known to sea travel, . including the supreme luxury: air-condi- .-. tioned dining salons (an exclusive fea- ■ cure in the service)!
Because they were built to suit the ’. smart American taste —because they do • suit it —these liners have set enviable • . popularity records! This summer, sail on . • them and see for yourself what unprecedented value, what delightful good - v times they offer! The Tourist Class fare is . only $204 round trip!
If you wish to travel in the best class ; on the ship and yet at a modest fare, then the very popular Pres. Harding and Pres. •’ Roosevelt merit your consideration. Cabin ; Class—highest on the ship—features ease, - y comfort and geniality-—finest cabins, top ; decks and the fare is only $234 round trip! ;
ThesefourfinelinerssailweeklytoCobh, : ’ Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg. Fares /. slightly higher between June 10 and July 8. Apply to your travel agent. His * services are free.
Associated with American Merchant and Baltimore Nlail Lines to Europe; Panama Pacitic Line toCahfornia;PanamaPacificand U.S. Unes Cruises.
* I	S>
* -MU -
IPS THE TOBACCO THAT COUNTS. And there
^sre no finer tobaccos than those used in Luckies
Company’s Office. 216 North Michigan Ave..’ :
Chicago. Illinois	j?",
ay 24, 1935
Seventee ri?;,-
TRACK RESULTS
(Continued from Page 11)
BURKE TROPHY
(Continued from Page 18)
CLUB NEWS
pearance of a framed picture. The top plate, made of sterling silver, is . a reproduction of a view from the golf course, and- took over six weeks to finish. In the foreground is the figure of Bill Burke, son of the donor of the trophy, in the act of hitting a golf ball, while in the background may be seen the spires of Sacred Heart Church, the Dome, and several of the residence halls. The name plate, on which is lettered, “William J. Burke Memorial Trophy,” and the Notre Dame Seal, backed by two crossed golf clubs, took R. Gayde, the sculptor, over 140 hours to finish. Altogether, ten men worked on the reproduction of the golf course outlay.
The metal work on the trophy is superimposed on a shield of American Black Walnut. The shield, the work of the Herff-Jones Company of Indianapolis, is composed of 20 separate pieces of wood, which are laminated, as in the case of aeroplane propellors, and so constructed that the panel will not -warp, and the joints will be in-.isible to the eye.
The trophy, -which will remain perpetually in the possession of the University, is to be hung in the Library until a permanent golf clubhouse is erected. On its reverse side it bears the following inscription:
William J. Burke ' Memorial Trophy
To Honor the Memory of Her Husband
This Permanent Trophy Has Been Presented To The University of Notre Dame by Mary G. Burke of Portsmouth, Ohio
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
pionship of the University beating Ed Buchart in a torrid duel, but, as yet, with school in its last week, he has failed to receive the titular trophy. Frank has already won two monograms and this season clinched his third ensignia in the Indiana match. The best tennis of Frank’s career was displayed by him about three weeks ago and came at a most opportune time. He was stacked against George Ball of Chicago University and the holder of titles that string from New York to his home town in Texas. Frank was eventually subdued but only after he forced the expert Texan to three hard sets. This spring Frank has won four single matches and is at present in Richmond, Indi-iana, battling away for the state title. He is a senior in the Arts and Letters School, majoring in economics.
Eighteen	-
Rochester Club Elections
Something a bit unusual in the history of Notre Dame campus club politics took place Friday night, May 10 in the Brownson Rec when all the members of the Rochester Club were elected unanimously because of the simple reason that no opposition was offered.
Architects Club
At a meeting held Monday, May 13 the Architects Club of Notre Dame conducted their elections for next year’s officers and made plans for their annual banquet.
The students chosen to fill the executive positions were Leon C. Huf-nagel of Clarion, Pa., as president, to succeed A. C. Hackenbruch of Milwaukee, Wis., and John M. Lee of Salamanca, N. Y., as Secretary and Treasurer to succeed Aaron J. Hamm of Waverly, N. Y.
“PEP ON n THE air
RUTH ETTING and her melody RED NICHOLS and his
COLLEGE PROM
Don't miss the "prom" next Friday. More thrills at college. More beautiful songs. More dancing music. Kellogg's College Prom visits a different famous campus every week and brings you the excitement and merriment of a party.
Be sure to tune in each Friday night And don't forget, every day. "Keep going with PEP I**
EVERY
FRIDAY NIGHT
8:30 Daylight Saving Time
MUZ Network—N. B. C.
thinlies of that school in a track meet, and returned victorious having triumphed by a score of 92% to 38%.
Eleven out of 15 firsts were garnered by the Irish and two events, the 440 yard dash and the low hurdles, saw clean sweeps made by the Notre Dame squad.
Don Elser, running his first low hurdle race for Notre Dame, won this event handily, being trailed by Layden and Link of Notre Dame. Elser . competed in the low hurdles in his high school days and is no novice at the art of scaling the timbers. Big Don turned in the best individual performance of the day by taking first in the shot put and the low hurdles, and a second in the discus throw for a total of 13 points.
Vince Murphy scaled six feet 3% inches in his specialty to establish a new meet and Michigan State stadium record. Two other meet records were also broken, both by Michigan State competitors, Hurd in the mile and Wright in the half mile achieved new records in their respective events.
The summary:
MILE RUN—Won by Tost. (P) ; McKenna (ND), second; McFarlane (ND), third. Time, 4 :24.2 (New meet record)
440-YARD RUN—Won by Bernard, (ND) ; Kiger, (P) second; Rubly. (ND) third. Time. :49.1 (ties field record)
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser, (ND) ;’ Michu-ta. (ND) second; Avizienis. (P), third. Distance, 51 feet, one half inch. (New meet and field record).
100-YARD DASH—Won by Fleming. , (P) ; •Iordan, (ND) second; Menaker, (P) third. Time :9.9 (new meet record)
120 HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden, (ND) : Link, (ND) second; Lasky, (P), third. Time :15.4.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Groat, (P) ; Con-nelley, (P) second; Ducassa, (ND) third. Time, 1.55.8 (New meet record). '
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Gongloff. (P) : Taano. (P), second; Sawiski, (P) third. Distance 192 feet, 9 inches, (new meet record) 220-YARD DASH—Won by Fleming, (P) ; Kiger, (P) second; Boyle, (ND) third. Time :22.7.
TWO MILE RUN —Won by McFarlane. (ND) ; Gott, (ND) second; Albright, (P) third. Time 9:52.7.
POLE VAULT—Edwards, (ND) and Pe-lucha, (P) tied for first ; Gerrety, (P) third. Height, 12 feet six inches. (Ties meet record) DISCUS THROW—Won by Seiffert. (P) ; Levicki, (ND) second; Fassinger, (P) third. Distance 133 feet, 10% inches (new meet record)'. -- .
> .HIGH . JUMP—Won by Murphy. (ND) r Quinlan." -(ND) second; Blair, (P) third.
. Height 6 feet 5% inches (new meet and field ' record).	.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher, (ND) Jordan, (ND) second; Boyle, (ND) third.
• Distance 23 feet 10 inches.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Fleming, (P) ; Elser, (ND) second: Layden, (ND) third. Time, :24,3 (new meet, record).
c
■u-
* »
The Scholastic
TRACK MEETS
(Continued from- Page 13)
BASEBALL RESULTS
(Continued from Page 15)
their half of the fourth to even , the score. They continued their hitting in the next inning and pounded out two more runs to take the lead. Another run was added in both the sixth and seventh innings to make the score 7-4.	- .
In defeating the Western Staters, Jake Klein’s chargers downed one of the strongest collegiate, nines in the country. By defeating Brandt for the second time this year, the Irish inflicted two of the three losses this star pitcher has suffered in the last two seasons.
Box scores:	_
Northwestern (10)
AB R H .P A Hanson,3b 110 0 1 Collins,3b 4 0 0 2 1 Henikoff,2b 6 3 2 1 1 Arnquist.cf 5 1,2 2 0 Pederson.rf 4 12 2 0 Larson.rf 0 0 0 0 0 Merrell,ss -4 0 0 1 4 Claborn.c	5	115	2
Shan’han.If	5	2 3	5	0
Walsh,lb	5	0 3	9	0
L’nstaedt.p	1	0 0	0	1
Woods.p	4	13	0	0
Notre Dame (7) AB R H P A
C’nha.2b 3 10 2 3
Wen’th.s 4 10 0 1
Metler.cf 4 2 4 3 0
Pitney,If 5 12 5 0
Gaul.c 4 1 1 4 0 '
Dunn.lb 2 1 0 10 0
Sepe.rf 3 0 0 1 0
From’t3h 4 0 12 3
Toumy,p 3 0 10 1
Rydell,p 1 0 0 0 0
W’gner.p 0 0 0 0 0
Costelo.p 1 0 0 0 0
xVelch’k 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ......44 10 16 27 10
Totals .. 35 7 9 27 8
x—Velcheck batted for Dunn in the ninth.
Errors—Collins, Wentworth. Two base hits —Peterson 2, Gaul. Three base hits—Mettler, Pilney. Stolen bases—Cunha, Wentworth, Mettler. Hits—off Lennstaedt 7 in 3 1-3, off Woods 2 in 5 2-3, off Tourney 10 in 5 1-3, off Rydell 3 in 2 1-3, off Van Wagner 1 in 0, off Costello 2 in 11-3. Strack out—by Woods 4, by Tourney 1, by Rydell 2. Base on balls—off Lenn-steadt 5, off Woods 4, off Rydell 1, off Van Wagner 2. Winning pitcher Woods. losing
pitcher Rydell.
Notre Dame (7) AB R H P A
Cunha, 2b	3	1	0	2	6
Went’th.ss, 4 0 12 5 Mettler, cf	5	1	3	2	0
Pilney, rf'	5	1	2	0	0
Gaul, c	4	2	3	4	2
Dunn, lb	4	1	1	14	0
Fromh’t,3b	3	0	0	1	0
Velcheck,If 4 14 2 0 Beach, p	3	0	0	0	4
Tourney, p	1	0	0	0	1
West State (4) AB R H P A
Hib’rdjf 3 110 0
B’nabo.2b2 0 0 1 1
Stahl,2b 2 0 0 1 1
Miller.lb 5 0 19 0
Emery,c 4 12 7 0
Secory.cf 4 10 0 0
N'man,3b 4 0 14 4
Salt’rs.rf 4 10 10
M’pah.ss 3 0 110
Brandt,p 3 0 112
Totals ___37 7 14 27 18 Totals ..34 4 7 24 7
Errors—Gaul, Fromhart (2), Millspaugh (2). Stolen bases—Cunha, Pilney, Fromhart, Mettler, Emery (2). Two base hits—Velcheck 2, Mettler, Brandt, Miller. Three base hits— Gaul. Hits of Beach 6 in 61-3, off Tourney. 1 in 2 2-3. Struck out by Beach 4, by Toumey 1, by Brandt 5. Base on balls off Beach 4 off Brandt 3. Winning pitcher. Beach.
Faculty Tennis Tourney
Progresses to Quarterfinals
Four players have reached the quarterfinals round of the faculty. tennis tournament now in progress. Langford has drawn a bye in the first round and beaten Armstrong to advance to the one of the final eight. Collins also drew a bye and defeated Don Plunkett in the next round to gain a quarterfinals berth. Dev. Plunkett has defeated both Dr. Kuntz and Elmer Layden to earn his quarterfinal round place. Hasley has defeated Boscki and Dooley with comparative ease to win his way into the quarter-bracket.
Joe Petritz has won from Mr. Chiz-ek and Mr. Hinton has defaulted to Mr. Corona. These are the only matches which have been played.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
himself in the two mile race when he finished a strong second behind his teammate, Leo McFarlane. Arch stuck with 'Leo throughout the race and when’ McFarlane started his sprint, the ' ' slight Gott lengthened his stride and plugged along behind the fast-moving McFarlane.
The showing of Chick Levicki in the javelin was surprising to some, but those who knew of his condition didn’t expect much from the big fellow Saturday. He broke into the scoring, however, with a second in the discus.
Big Bob Bernard turned in his top performance of the year when he won the quarter mile event. He knew he was faced with a big task in leading the speedy Pitt 440 men to the tape so he dug in and did just that in the fast time of :49.1.
AVERAGES
In two previous calculations we found Andy Pilney and George Wentworth leading Coach Jake Kline’s batters and now -with two games, the Wisconsin and Michigan State contests, remaining to be figured in the averages, Catcher Frankie Gaul bobs up above his teammates with the remarkable average of .464. Gaul has been hitting at a dizzy pace of late, hitting 18 safely in the last 29 attempts.
In second place is the speedy Andy Pilney. His rating shows at .413, with the recent leader, Wibby Wentworth, in third position with .383. Arnold Velcheck completes the .300 class, hitting
at that figure to sneak into the charmed circle.				
	AB	R	H	Pct.
Gaul, c 		— 56	14	26	.464
Pilney, rf, if -		... 63	14	26	.413
Wentworth, ss 		_. 60	11	23	.383
Velcheck, If 		... 30	4	9	.300
Costello, lb, 3b, p ....	... 27	3	8	.296
Cunha, 2b 		... 67	16	19	.284
Dunn, lb 		... 47 .	8	12	.255
Matthews, rf 		... 4	2	1	.250
Van Wagner, p 		... 4	1	1	.250
Tourney, p 		... 18	1	4	.222
Sepe. rf 		... 19	2	4	.211
Mettler, cf 		... 68	9	14	.206
Regan, ss, 3b 		.. 13	2	2	.154
Themes, p 		... 15	1	2	.133
Fromhart, 3b 		... 41	7	5	.122
Beach, p 		... 15	4	1	.067
Rydell, p 		„ 4	1	0	.000
Underkoffler, c		.... 3	0	0	.000
Palkovic, ph 		.. 1	0	0	.000
Totals 				..545	100	* 158	.290
many smaller colleges will compete and a day of fast races is certain. Indiana and Butler will enter their stellar performers, Don Lash and-Ray Sears in the two mile run, probably the feature race of the day. • Both have run 9:17 this year and both have won close decisions from the other in recent meets. The Cartier Field record of 9:30 is in for a tumble if either of these boys is in form.
Several Notre Dame seniors will be competing in their parting home appearance, among these is Jack Edwards in the pole vault. If conditions are right Edwards has a fine chance to close his collegiate career with a victory. Another senior, Jim Sheils, will display his famous “kick” in the 880 yard rim for the last time in an effort to win Indiana state laurels. After two years of hard luck caused by injuries, Shiels has come through gallantly this year to pull his team through some tight spots. Captain Vince Murphy, the greatest high jumper Notre Dame has ever seen, will bid farewell to home fans with a last attempt at the world’s high jump record of 6 ft 8% inches.
WIS-, MICH. ST. BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 13)
good record in these last two games they will close out a satisfactory second year under the tutelage of- Jake Kline. Snowed under by defeats last year, Jake determined that things would be different for his second season. The team realized his hopes by rolling up a high average. Although several defeats have blemished the record somewhat, the nine has played a much superior type of baseball this season.
BASEBALL GAMES
(Continued from Page 12)
Notre Dame (13) AB R H P A	Purdue (4) AB R H PA
Cunha, 2b 4 3 2 4 2	Do’ney.lf 10 0 10
Went’th.ss 4 12 2 3	Dailey.c 3 0 0 0 0
Mettler, cf 5 1 0 0 0	Arm’n.3b 4 0 2 0 0
Pilney, If 5 2 2 1 0	Craig,2b 4 0 0 3 5
Und’k’fler.c 0 0 0 1 0	B’bach.lf 4 12 5 1
Gaul, c 5 3 3 7 0	Sk’ski.lb 4 2 2 8 0
C’ostello.c 4 2 2 5 0	Ghe’co.rf 3 0 0 2 0
Dunn.lb 5 0 16 0	H’g’nd.cf 4 12 0 0
Reagan,3b 3 0 2 0 0	Lucas,ss 4 0 0 5 1
Beach.p 4 1112	Ernst.p 3 0 10 0 Martin.p 0 0 0 0 1
-v. Totals 	39 13 15 27 7	Totals ..34 4 9 24 8
Errors—Baumbach. Hoagland. Lucas (3). Mettler. Dunn. Two base hits—Skoronski. Costello. Gaul. Home runs — Pilney. Skoronski. Sacrifice hits—Wentworth. Stolen bases—Met- . tier, Pilney. Gaul. Strack out—by Beach. 6: by Ernst, 2. Double plays?—Cunha to Dunn. Wentworth to Cunha to Dunn. Base on balls— off Beach 2: off Martin. 2. Passed balls— Dailey. Losing pitcher—Martin.
SMay 24, 1935
'Nineteen
IRISH TENNIS TEAM ENTERS STATE MEET
Smarting under the sting of three consecutive defeats, the Irish tennis team, under the able direction of Coach Pedro de Landero, will seek vengeance in the Indiana intercollegiate meet at Richmond today and tomorrow. Earlham college is the host
Capt. Frank Weldon The leader still leads.
to the galaxy of net stars who will gather to claim the intercollegiate titles of Indiana.
Purdue, Butler and Indiana are expected to furnish the great opposition to the Irish. Against this cream of Hoosier stars, the Irish are
expecting to carry off some of the laurels.
Six men are being taken to the meet: Captain Frank Weldon, Ed B u c h a r t, Fredericks, Prendergast, Waldron and Verbaet. The Notre Dame team will be handicapped by the loss of the incapacitated Fallon still limping from his severe ankle sprain suffered last week.
Captain Weldon, Buchart and Fredericks will be making their final bow to varsity tennis and are determined to make their final match successful.
St. Vincent de Paul
The St. Vincent de Paul society is making its final drive of the present school year for old clothes, furniture, and magazines, which will be given to the needy people in this vicinity. Collectors will canvass each hall during the first three days of next week. Signs stating places for leaving discarded articles will also be posted in the event that the collector does not call. The cooperation of the students is asked by the society in order that the members can make this drive the largest and most fruitful of the year.
Thursday evening, May 23, the members of the society held their
final weekly meeting of the year. August Petrillo, past president of the conference, presided, and Frank Mc-Gahren, the first president of the organization, read the yearly reports on the work accomplished by the society.
BISHOP NOLL
(Continued from Page 5)
renew its Holy Name, C. Y. 0., and Legion of Decency pledges. Bishop Noll will give the sermon, which will be followed by solemn Benediction sung by the Moreau choir. The altar will be placed on the south side of the stadium in front of which the C.Y.O. parish units of the deanery will form a cross during the ceremonies.
The procession will include in order: the university band, parishes of the deanery, St. Mary’s College students, Holy Cross and Moreau seminarians, Brothers from Dujarie Institute, Moreau choir, clergy of the deanery, including the members of the Holy Cross Congregation, and finally the Bishop and his escort.
Preparations are in charge of the Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., J. Walter Mclnerny of South Bend, general chairman; and Robert Riordan, J. Arthur Haley, and Raymond A. Hoyer of Notre Dame.
light an Old Gold for young ideas
^^/zzzz/zZz/zy... but never irritating
c P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
Twenty	.	The S cholastic
“OLD GOLD” CONTEST AWARDS ANNOUNCED
Thirty-eight entrants turned in a total of 8,059 Old Gold package fronts in the Notre Dame ring contest which closed May 15th.
The first ten men- listed below ■will receive official Notre Dame rings as gifts of the P. Lorillard Co., makers of Old Gold cigarettes. This contest was one of a series sponsored by this company at a number of leading universities in the middle west.
The Old Gold company extends its appreciation to all those who entered the contest—together with its regrets that 38 rings were not available.
The official count as announced by the judges follows:
Joseph C. Clifford.........714
Thomas Houghton............534
G. Molinari .............  531
Toby Kramer .............. 509
Jo. C. McNally.............506
Wm. McNally..............—.500
Robt. J. Sullivan —......  450
J. Coon..................  408
Anthony Brick............  374
Wm. A. Kennedy.............347
Chas Hill ...............  339
E. J. Nerad .....„..... ...288
B. Schloemer...............234
J. Crunican .............  231
Jack Hickey............... 225
Amerigo Brienza............192
A. F. O’Boyle..............169
Carl J. Senger.............167
Roger Barrock..............164
Robt. Barry ...............159
Chas. S. Fitzsimmons ......152
Paul W. Carroll............133
J. Blunt ..................104
John Kirsch ............  .100
Chas. McNichols -.........  82
Bill Lynch ................ 64
Mason Fox.................  63
Don Varraveto.............. 61
Marcellus Ball ............ 60
Jno. Zdon.................. 51
Don Hanning................ 47
Sam Lawler ..............   41
Roger Ashany ............   20
John J. D’Matteo........... 17
Frank Smith ............. 10..
Tom Needham________________ 10
Jos. Singleton ............. 2
Geo. Milton .............    1
MAGAZINES WANTED
“Sacred Heart Messengers” are wanted for- distribution among the colored in North Carolina, according to an appeal recently received by The Scholastic. The magazines, however old, should be sent to Reverend Charles J. Gable, Box 438, Greenville, N. C.
Way 24, 1935
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY FOR GRADUATING
SENIORS
The McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., one of the largest and most progressive firms of its kind in the United States, is seeking several graduating seniors who would be interested in a permanent connection with this organization, starting in the sales department.
Seniors who have had some sales experience, or who are interested in entering the business side of the publishing field, are urged to write direct to Mr. M. E. Mitchell, Division Sales Manager, McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., Inc., 501 Guardian Building, Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Mitchell will correspond -personally with all applicants and will arrange to meet those qualified at a convenient time and place to discuss the matter with them personally. . He further states: “Ours is a national organization and we would be interested in discussing our proposition with prospective salesmen, from any part of the United States. As Distict Manager for the Middle West, I would transfer applications for other sections to our other division managers.”
McGraw-Hill publish a numbei-of business magazines and trade journals, as well as a great many books on business problems.
Because of the unusual attractiveness of this offer, interested seniors should write at once to Mr. Mitchell, giving full details of their qualifications and experience.
BROTHER MARCELLUS DIES
After a long illness, Brother Marcellus, C.S.C., aged 75, one of the oldest members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, died of pneumonia at 7:45 o’clock Monday night, May 6, in the Community Infirmary. -
Before taking his vows at the age of sixteen Brother Marcellus was known as William Kelly. For six years' he served as assistant to the. late Rev. Gilbert Francais, . C.S.C., Superior General of the congregation. He formerly taught • mathematics in Central Catholic High Schol, Fort Wayne, Ind.,’ a school which he helped found. He had been retired for fifteen years.
Funeral services were held at Sacred Heart Church at 8:00 a.m., Thursday morning. The Requiem Mass was sung by the Rev. J. Col-lentine, C.S.C., superior of Holy Cross Seminary. Burial was in the community cemetery.
Brother Marcellus has only one surviving relative, a nephew, William Kelly, of Watertown, Wisconsin.
REV. W. BOLGER TALKS ON LABOR’S PROBLEMS
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., delivered a lecture on “The Relationship Between the Labor Encyclicals of Popes Leo XIII and Pius XI, and the National Industrial Recovery Act” on Wednesday afternoon, May 15, in the Law College Auditorium.
“The labor encyclicals issued by Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI-contain the essentials of labor, the principles of reconstruction of the present social and economic order and the most important principles on which human life of the future will be built,” stated Father Bolger, head of the department of economics at Notre Dame.
Father Bolger reviewed the history of labor and its development through the laissez faire period and the reaction against its abuses in England. Father Bolger compared both' encyclicals with the N.I.R.A.
In discussing Section 7A of the N.I.R.A., Father Bolger stated that it embodied as strongly as law can the doctrine which the great Pope Leo XIII expressed in 1891, that people as members of society have the right to organize as they see fit.
“Although the workers now have all their desired liberty, they have not organized to the extent that friends of organized labor had expected them to. Company unions have grown faster than general labor unions since the advent of the N.I.R.A., he stated. Then Father Bolger gave three probable reasons.
1	.—“The apathy of the people.”
2	.—“The lack of confidence in the leaders of the American Federation of Labor.”
3	.—“Active and effective objections of the employers through Company unions.”
Father Bolger also mentioned that both encyclicals condemned socialism and communism. He declared that the N.I.R.A. is built upon the assumption of private property. Concerning the wage contract Father Bolger said:
‘ “The wage contract in itself is not unjust, but it needs to be supplemented by a contract that makes a partnership out of the employer-employee relationship. This can come about either by sharing in the ownership, profits, or management.”
Tw enty-one
GOLD WANTED
Highest cash prices paid for your old jewelry, dental work, etc. by licensed gold buyers. Pays up to $35 an ounce. Mail gold to 0. E. Eiling, 409 Lumber Exchange Bldg., Minneapolis, Minnesota. Will mail check and hold gold for ten days for your approval. We also buy silver.
ITALIAN GOV’T. AWARD
Joseph Mangelli, of Bayonne, New Jersey, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was awarded a handsome leather-bound volume of the complete works of Alessandro Manzoni, Italian poet and novelist of the 19th century, by the Italian government.
Pasquale Pirchio, professor of Italian and mechanical drawing at the University, announced the award, which was made through the Casa Italiana of Columbia University. The Italian government bestows such prizes for proficiency in the study of Italian in all universities which offer courses in the Italian language.
T wenty-two
The Scholastic