

··lrlh~·m@-@lr\!'Jrr@-·rm-~···[})f!i~ o~@~~ •···· .. :­. lr@®m·@@XMl@@1~::~ (!)~ mi@j~~~®® W©lru · ···· ····. ···:.:: ... ~ ~@tXI' OOr@rn~@lh@tr wtimm ~@ lllrnm©rro©l!l~~. . .. ·. ~· 
... 0 @~W©Ii[f!!!JrmUl ·-------.... ---................ ····· ...... t ~IP~fM~rr1-~-{~J1®fr>lill m@@@~--··· ·-···· ····-········ · · :· 
. -(:•;. 
,::
1t;f,.:w 
..... tL­
....,.. .,_ .........•-·······-..----·-----·-·-"---~•-·--_..... ·····-····--·•·-···· . ··········-"·"·•· ................. ·-··--~.. --, . 
:.··:··:·-.--::~·:.-··:: ·------· ···············-··---_·---·stttdent··union board 

18 SEPTEMBER 2008 

07 news 
10 Beating the Bookstore 
John Greil 
The rising costs of textbooks have caused many students to look to options outside the bookstore. 

13 culture 14 Defining Duncan 
Mary Kaminski 
The newest dorm on West Quad is beginning to strut its stuff. 

18 Cover: A Sustainable Image 
Mike Tresnowski 
The university says it's committed to the enviroµment, but can the Irish really stay green? 
27 sports 28 Just Wanna Hit Somebody 
Andy Gray 
Interhall football players begin this year's quest to play for a championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 



32 humor 
3 5 Take Your Pick 
. Natalie Kratz 
Our humor editor weighs the options for a date to her sister's wedding: 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
IS IMAGE EVERYTHING? 
Notre Dame is no stranger to the national spotlight and the unrelenting 
scrutiny that comes with it. Whether it's a picture of our underage 
quarterback, beer-in-hand, or a student production with the word "vagina" 
in the title, the university has become adept at handling public relations 
nightmares. The D-minus ND received inJanuary 2007 on the Sustainable 
Endowment Institute's College Sustainability Report Card was no exception. 
In the past two years, "green" initiatives have sprung up everywhere on 
campus: dorm recycling contests, reminders to turn offelectronics, reusable 
Grab'n'Go bags, etc. Capping it all off is this year's academic forum ­
Sustainable Energy-on September 24. 
Qn pages 18-23', Culture Editor Mike Tresnowski explores the history 
of environmentalism at ND and recent reform attempts. Is the university 
committed to cleaning up its act? Or just its image? 
EXTRA! EXTRA! READ ALL ABOUT IT (ONLINE)! 
We're excited to announce the launch ofour new and improved Web site! 
Meet our staff bloggers on page 5 and then follow them between print issues at 
scholnstic.nd.edu. While you're there, be sure to check out our photo galleries, 
showcasing extra shots from football games, campus concerts and more. And 
as a special study break treat, we'll be archiving the best Gipper tips from years . past. We hope you enjoy the site, and we'd appreciate any feedback you want to 
send our way! 
WELCOME BACK! 
While we can't help you navigate your way through all of the new construction on campus (not to mention those mini-quads that spring up out of nowhere), we have tried to provide you with a guide to some of the changes you will encounter. Sports Editor Malisha Samarasekera chats with the new athletic director on page 30. Staff Writer Mary Kaminski catches up with the men of Duncan Hall on pages 14-15. And don't miss the new Scholastic back-page Q&A feature; for this issue, we get the scoop on junior Megan Krizmanich, the "princess" of the indie documentary "American Teen." 
Thanks for reading. We're looking forward to a great year! 

Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 
I. 
1
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

Published Since 1867 Serving the Notre Dame Community 
10 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
NAME: ________________ 
ADDRESS: ______________ 

S,CHOLASTIC 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOL~STIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 

ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:I/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ STUDENTSHOP/ 


ec us out. 
!; 
'-1 
'
Starbucks has anew look! ,,j . 1i "t 
:
Come in for awarm drink and see !J 
:1 
,] ·)
what we've done ~ith the place. ,,i .,•; ·' 
'. '; 
j 
,, 
'
Starbucks is located in La~ortune Student Center. "1 


i I 
I' 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, &Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) .Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.ed~. · 
Office of Campus Ministry · · ·, (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey,_CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffeit@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at · 
corecouncil.nd.edu 



New Move-In Procedures 
"Stop, drop and roll on" 
Meagan Drapalik 
• Students who thought "stop, drop and roll" had gone the way of freeze tag may have been surprised to find the Fire Safety Week staple upon arriving back on campus this fall. In order to negotiate the reconfiguration of West Quad, which now features Duncan Hall and a mini-quad in front of Reckers, the university retooled the familiar phrase to explain the new move-in process. "You know the old saying, 'stop, drop and roll?' Well, we're using the same thing here: stop, drop and roll on," Phil Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police, says. 
Even though this version ofstopping, dropping and rolling may lack the severity ofa real emergency drill, the university took the planning and execution of the process just as seriously. In years past, cars across campus were directed to park on the grass near a dorm while students unloaded their belongings. However, this meant damaged grass and a subsequent nightmare for the grounds services team, ,vho then had to scramble to re-landscape in time for football season. 
This emergency landscaping also translated into a larger financial issue for the university. Johnson says, "If we damage the turf, the resources that we would use to fix the turf could be better used for the academic mission of the university or for community activity." Therefore, a committee made up of rectors, students, representatives from the Office of Residence Life and Housing and even stadium ushers, who are out in the trenches directing traffic, was created to examine the issue. 
Their solution was a system centering on the stop, drop and move­on mantra: cars filter into the D6 parking lot as a staging area until room becomes available directly in front ofa dorm. From there, ushers direct the cars to each dorm, while students depend on the Frosh-0 committees to "swarm the cars" and facilitate the remainder of the unloading process as empty vehicles are transferred to a perimeter lot. 
Although the system required extra logistical strategizing, Sister Mary Lynch, rector of McGlinn Hall, says the changes were imperceptible. "I couldn't see a difference," she says. "It went as smoothly inside as it has before, and I'm just glad not to see cars parked on the grass." 
Similarly, freshmen who may have been jittery about other aspects of their arrival on campus seemed unphased by the procedure. "Everything went pretty smooth," freshman Jack Grennan says about his move into Keough Hall. "A couple ofpeople were pretty frustrated about the traffic out there, but I wasn't too worried because I knew I would get in there eventually." 
Grennan's flexible attitude seems to reflect the general reaction to the new procedure, which Johnson says was highly successful. "When thousands of people move in there is the opportunity for glitches here and there," he says. "But everyone was very willing to work together, and I think that's one of the things that distinguishes the Notre Dame family." 0 

NEWS 


Su.xnxner ND Alert 
Glad we all knew about that --thunderstorm ... from 2,000 miles away. 
i I 

Record rain in the Bend 
It beats snow, plus ... instant slip 'n' slide! 
Jimmy's new hair You are my sunshine, my only sunshine ... 


"Crank me up" cheer Just urban-dictionary 
"crank." 
Sarah Palin's kids' names 
Track, Bristol, Willow, Piper and Trig? Really?? 

Revamping Reckers 
Changes to menu mean healthier options Molly Slavin 
Remember when Reckers was the home. of such culinary masterpieces as the buffalo chicken sandwich and the ever-popular cheese fries? Although these storied items are no_ longer on the menu, the new school year marks a turning point for the campus' 24-hour cafe. · Students who have ventured to the restaurant· · in the first weeks of schoo_l have doubtless noticed the lack of favorites like tortilla chips 

and spinach-artichoke dip in favor of healthier 
options. The replacement of the beloved, greasy flatbread sandwiches with 
the new, healthier piadinas has fostered some complaints, but others see the -· new menu as a way to eat better and live a healthier lifestyle. 
Senior student inanager KatyJan*says, "The new food is a lot fresher than 
the ingredients we used to use. Everything is made to order. And, overall, the 
response has definitely been positiv:e, But, it must be said, there have been a 
few late-night requests for cheese with those fries." 
Those who remain unconvinced can still order some remnants of the good 
old days. The entire ice cream and smoothie menu remains intact, as does 
the selection of wood-stove pizzas. Although some students may continue to 
live in the past ("When I was your age, this place ha.cl NACHO CHEESE!"), 
others embrace the changes in the Reckers menu and sit down to enjoy a nice, 
healthy piadina. Sans the snappy corn spread. 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 


NEWS 


Green on the Big Screen 
The DPAC offers options beyond the forum 
Molly Slavin 
Just can't get enough of the environment? In addition to the Forum Film Festival, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is screening more environmentally conscious films in the days following the Forum on Sustainable Energy. Scholastic provides you with a guide: 
"Who Killed the Electric Ctir?" directed by Chris Paine 
Sunday, September 21, 3:00 p.1n. 
The GM EVl was one of the most fuel-efficient cars ever built, yet General Motors crashed the entire fleet in the Arizona desert. This film explores its short life and reasons behind the destruction of this futuristic vehicle. 

''An Inconvenient Truth," directed by Davis Guggenheim Tuesday, September 23, 7:00 p.m. The movie that arguably jump-started the current environmental movement can once again be seen on the big screen. Former Vice President Al Gore takes the audience through the journey that led him to his pet cause, which he says is one of the most pressing moral issues facing our generation. 
"Nlountaintop Removal," directed by ivlichael O'Connell Thursday, September 25, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
This film showcases the conflict that surrounds our campus' controversial coal power source. The documentary dramatizes the struggle between activists and coal companies in West Virginia over the suspect mining practice known as mountaintop removal. 
"Fields ofFuel," directed by Joshua Tickell Friday, September 26, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. We've all heard the phrase "addicted to oil," but what is being done about it? Josh Tickell, a well-known activist, is dedicated to educating America about the problems associated with our country's addiction and pointing us to a more hopeful future. 0 
ro~ ~uv~ 
Rejected Ideas for Duncan Hall Signature Events 

· Dude Auction -Except the dudes are priests and the date is confession. 

Donutina-Apparently jelly doesn't come out of hair easily. 

Queen Week -Because they would all look great in drag. 

Duncan Crush(ed) -Pick your favorite awkward hookup for a romantic night of round two. 

The Not So Holy Half-You don't even want to know. 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I9 
• • .-r -• • • ~ '---~-.....::.--------~~--­
-----~-----~ ----~~-­

NEWS 
Beating the Bookstore 
FRUSTRATED WITH PRICES AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE, STUDENTS DECIDE TO. 
.•. ;_;,;;.,~.;;;":,;i,,:;:; 
EXPLORE OTHER OPTIONS. . .-.. ~~ k 
,:~JC:-'"'". 
tbOO 5 
~~·-~-·~-TeX m 
·seo v~uA
Jives BOOKSTORE 



NEWS 
1_8 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 
John Greil 
Few students dare enter the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore during a 
football weekend for fear of getti~ 
smothered in a crowd ofShirt-buying fans. 
Most students, however, do bear the long 
lines at this campus location twice a year, 
but their grumblings are not about the lines 
and the crowds. Their complaints center 
around the rising prices of textbooks and the 
relatively low prices for which the bookstore 
buys them back, if it buys them back at all. 
The increasing frustration of Notre Dame 
students has led them not only to start 
looking for books elsewhere, but also to 
creating solutions of their own. 
DormBooks.com is one attempt at a 
solution, ·The company, a student-run 
alternative to both the bookstore and online 
retailers, was created in fall 2006 by current 
seniors Karol Grzesiak and Andrew Matasic. 
In the beginning, they served as middlemen 
between online companies like Amazon.com 
and 30 or 40 Notre Dame students. In their 
first semester they bought $15,000 worth of 
business textbooks. 
While there are student-run sites such 
as Campusbooks.com that match students 
with virtual classified advertisements, 
DormBooks sells and buys back textbooks 
specifically to and from Notre Dame 
students. Using a smaller markup, they are 
able to sell books for less than the bookstore 
and buy them back at higher prices. They 
also offer $1 next-day delivery to the 
customer's dorm room. 
"The bookstore has the new· priced book 
to sell you -say it's $100," Grzesiak says. 
"When tney buy it back, usually they buy 
it back for half the price -that's $50 -up 
until they reach their quota." The difference 
between DormBooks and the bookstore's 
buyback program is what happens after this 
quota. 
While the bookstore lowers its price $10 
or $20, DormBooks keeps its buyback price 
constant. "We'll take that same book, and 
we'll offer $50 or $55 across the board, so 
you can be the first person, or the last person, 
you'll get the same price," Grzesiak says. 
"And then what the bookstore does, is they 
turn around and that book they bought for 
$50, 50 percent, they sell for 75 percent. At 
DormBooks we'll sell it for 60, 65 percent." One disadvantage of DormBooks is its limited scope. "We only have the funds to do business textbooks," Grzesiak says, although he is looking to expand the business. Non­. business students can still turn to online 
resources like Amazon.com, many of which 
offer used books at rates cheaper than 
the bookstore's. While online sites may 
be cheaper, however, they still have the 
inconvenience of shipping fees and delayed 
delivery times. 
The bookstore circumvents those 
disadvantages with its on-campus convenience, so many students choose to buy textbooks there for the expediency and immediate satisfaction. Twelve years ago, the university partnered with Follett Higher Education Group to manage all retail · 
operations at the,site. The two continue to 
hold an ·exclusive and private agreement, and most statistics regarding the sales and profits of the bookstore are not disclosed due to a private contract between Follett and the university. 
"Our value proposition is based on the premise that we are here to serve the students 
-both online and in the store," Director of 
Retail Operations Keith Kirkpatrick says. The bookstore also conducts "an annual. 
customer survey that is completed and compiled each fall, with many questions pertaining to the customer experience." It then adapts to the results of the survey. The survey is not a solution for all unhappy · customers, however. "Some things are 
" 
~J{
L..-""'iti 
I ~ 
.rll. . • •,r:-.; 
~F~~­
'---·1.,.,. . 
contractually bound; some things can't change," Kirkpatrick says. 
Another disadvantage to buying online is that the consumer does not always know exactly what he or she is buying. "We receive our information directly from the faculty members, so students are guaranteed to get the correct course materials for their class," Kirkpatrick says. "Textbook editions change 
much more frequently than they have in the 
past, and students must take special care to ensure that they have the correct textbook. You can often find a book that looks the same but has distinct differences between 
editions." The bookstore ensures that the student will receive the correct edition, which is not something online retailers can promise. "The service takes all the guesswork out," he says. . 
Kirkpatrick acknowledges that "online sites are certainly here to stay," and at Notre Dame, DormBooks is one of those competitors. While DormBooks offers services to business students, the bookstore is able to offer every required text at the university. As the competition from online retailers increases, the bookstore will have 
to battle both local and national competitors for the patronage of the student body. 0 


Bringing the Pep Back to the Rally 
Football Friday festivities refocus on students and dorm spirit 
Maddy Zollo 
Since the conception ofthe residence hall system at Notre Dame, dorm rivalries have been_ an integral part of on-campus student life, whether it is an intramural football game between Keenan and Stanford or a Frosh-0 water balloon fight between Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West. Each hall has its own colors, its own mascot, and its own cheers -unique characteristics visible to alumni and Fighting Irish fans alike at the Notre Dame pep rallies. Over the past few years, however, student attendance has waned, suggesting a lackluster attitude about pep rallies and showing dorm pride. 
This year, juniors Derek Sanchez and Laura Burdick, the athletic directors of the Hall Presidents' Executive Council, are trying a new approach to get undergraduates more involved in the pep rallies by creating the Dorm Championship League. Each week the host dorms will be campus rivals, such as Dillon and Alumni, and they will vie against each other in different challenges ranging from obstacle courses to dance-offs. The winner of each rally will eventually compete against other weeks' winners until one dorm is crowned the victor of them all. 
Sanchez says he wanted to do something to change the perception that it is "uncool" to go to pep rallies; in the past, pep rallies were a central part of football season. "I think part of the reason students have lost interest is because the pep rallies are too corporate, too cookie-cutter. The focus is no longer on the students," Sanchez says. "That's why this year we're trying to get the dorms more involved and have the football players engage more with the student body." 
Since the Dorm Championship League can only be successful if more students actually go to the pep rallies and want to participate, Sanchez and Burdick have turned to individual hall presidents to encourage attendance. Sophomore Kaitlin Robinson, president of Howard Hall, is coming up with new ideas to encourage her tirls to attend. Robinson is planning to create a theme for each pep rally, such as "fiesta" or "Disney princesses," so her girls can dress up accordingly each week. 
"The Thursday night before, we'll probably have a "Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights" watch with chips and salsa or a Disney movie-watch with cupcakes," Robinson says. She's hoping that all of the pre-pep rally festivities will encourage dorm unity and get everyone pumped about representing Howard the following afternoon. 
Tactics like Robinson's are being promoted throughout campus, and Sanchez is hoping that the halls will begin to want to go to the pep rallies not only to support Notre Dame, but also to have fun promoting their own dorms through friendly competition. Winning the inter-hall competitions will also have its rewards, such as a $10 McDonald's gift certificate to every member of the victorious hall. The dorm that wins the most events might even be awarded a press box dinner for the top prize. 
"We want to focus more on the students and players than alumni," Sanchez says. "But for it to be successful, we just have to get it to catch on." 0 

CULTURE 
DEFINI 
DUNCA 
Mary Kaminski 
They may be the new kids on the block, but the Duncan Hall (insert still unannounced dorm mascot 
here)s have no reason to be picked on. The 232 proud men of Duncan are doing just fine _getting acquainted with the neighborhood. In fact, they are already claiming possession of West Quad by attempting to steal the naming rights of the recreational area commonly referred to as ."McGlinn Fields." Dorm soccer 
. try-outs were to be held at "DUNCAN Fields," a student said during post-Mass annouricemeni:s last week. These new guys are already claiming ownership of their not-quite-humble abode. 
At first glance, the interior of Duncan feels more like Rolfs Recreational Sports Center than a dorm; the fresh paint and clean carpets aren't tarnished by the smell of stale beer and inexplicable IO-year-old stains ·quite yet. Give it time, though; the residents have big plans for the future of Duncan and . aim to keep up with the rest of the long-established Notre Dame dormitories. 
There was speculation around campus that the dorm wouldn't start off as a cohesive unit or that the incoming freshman· wouldn't be "taken care of'' by the older residents, since the upperclassmen are a combi~ation of men from various dorms across campus. Traditionally, older students living in dorms mold the freshmen to fit the established identity of the dorm. The men of Duncan, however, have quickly become something more than a random assortment of students. 
"I think everything is working out really well. The upperclassmen, yes, they are coming from another dorm, but they all chose to come here, so they are all very excited about everything," senior CJ. Ramsey, a Duncan resident assistant (R.A.) says. "A lot of the guys are especially excited to be a part of the beginning of new 
14 I SCHOLASTIC I 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 
traditions." We have all heard the "back in would have to take on either the Duncan my day ... " tales of dorm traditions (for Highlanders or the Duncan Dragons in instance, back in my day, there was a Dillon ariy type of · friendly dorm competition. Hall Pep Rally every year). The residents .•· (Reminder: The Scots sure can hold their of Duncan have the special opportunity to · beverage, and dragons are fire-breathing, be the men who begin and pass down the: making both dangerous opponents on any traditions. , playing field). Duncan rector Father Tom Last week hall government elections Eckert says he hopes the decision will be 
confirmed juniors Joe Czerwien and Tom_ Bacsik as hall president and vice-president, respectively. The next step concerns the much-anticipated choice ofhall mascot and spirit colors (and no, the "Duncan Donuts" -which I'm sure you all tho1:1ght was your own, original and painfully funny idea ­is not being seriously considered). 
Residents were encouraged to su_bmit their ideas for the dorm mascot last week. Since anyone who lives in the dorm ·can submit a suggestion, plenty of ideas were offered up, but there seem to be two clear favorites. Best ofluck to the male dorms that announced prior to the Purdue pep rally, which will be hosted by Duncan. The creation of a signature event wtll be the second primary task ofhall government. 
With hall government in place, some of the weight has been taken off the hall staff's shoulders. With no Duncan residents to pull from in the spring, the hall staff had to completely run the Frosh-O program, which is typically run by sophomores ~nd juniors. On top of that, i_n-hall training began before the staff was even living. in . Duncan -during training, the R.A.s livedin O'Neill, the assistant rectors lived 
CULTURE 
in Fischer and O'Hara-Grace Graduate Housing, and Eckert was living in Corby Hall. "It was a challenge envisioning what the community would be like for the entire dorm when we didn't even ~ave the physical place where we were going to form that community," Eckert says. When it was time to move in, however, the brotherhood started coming together. Duncan upperclassmen volunteered to help move freshmen in -another typical role of a Frosh-O staff. "As R.A.s, we really wanted to be present in our sections as the freshmen were moving in, so the other upperclassmen were a.huge help. It's really what lends itself to the great atmosphere we now have in Duncan," senior R.A. Travis Allen says. 
The upperclassmen residents entered a lottery last spring for the chance to win the perks of air-conditioning, spacious common areas and a brand new facility. Roommates could apply together to be in Duncan for a specific-sized room. Having previously lived in Morrissey, notoriously one of the most run-down of the men's dorms, Ramsey appreciates the improved living conditions Duncan has to offer. The dorm consists of singles, doubles, super doubles, triples, quads and super quads. What makes a double or quad "super," you ask? Bay windows and private restroom facilities upgrade a room. 
One lucky group of guys certainly upgraded from the cinderblock motif of Keenan Hall. They landed the dorm's only 6-man, a double attached to a quad with a bathroom and large common room ­which will soon house a 100-inch projector screen. The "Duncan Penthouse" is "far from everywhere but close to perfect." Or so their business cards say. Juniors Garreth Condron, Conner Cox, Bill Carson, Joey Schmitt, Jorge Romero and Noah Franske proudly admit that there is even enough room for their egos. 
As for the freshmen, dorm life is uncharted territory, so they don't have any horror stories of older and less attractive dorms to compare with life in Duncan. While they may not get a chance to be part of decades-old dorm traditions, some Duncan freshmen are thrilled to be charter members of Duncan Hall. "The first thing I thought was, how did I get so lucky?" freshman Alex Metoxen says. "I didp.'t know a lot about any of the other dorms, but when I found out I'd be in a brand new one, I figured it wasn't a bad deal." 
The freshmen and the upperclassmen that chose to transfer into Duncan are a melting pot that is evolving into a family. Those that transferred to Duncan all came for different reasons, but now they are as one unit. "I don't know why they came here, but everyone chose to be in this community, to start new traditions and to be around for something exciting," Allen says. 
Eckert commends the men of Duncan for the respect they have all shown one another as they create a community and a brotherhood. "I can't really say that I'm surprised. Every dorm is always the best dorm on campus. Butl think the excitement and newness of the 'Duncan experience' is probably drawing people together, even with their diverse backgrounds and experiences," Eckert says. He also noted that since everyone is new to the dorm, residents don't necessarily know who the freshmen are, or who belongs to the older classes, putting everyone on a more even playing field in the community. "There are far fewer groups defined by class than maybe in other dorm experiences," Eckert says. 
Although the freshmen admit that they feel spoiled by their amenities, they are truly excited to be a part of the Duncan Hall tradition. And these guys have high hopes for Duncan's status on campus. When asked what male dorm they would like to start a rivalry with, Metoxen says: "All of them, but definitely O'Neill and Morrissey. By senior year, there will be fighting." A threat to another hall for no apparent reason? The sign of a true ND dorm. Looks like the Duncan Hall kids will fit in just fine around here. 0 



FIGHTIN' IRISH 


at Notre Dame •. 
Mike Tresnowski 
GreeND is not your parents' environmentalist group. At the club's first meeting last week, not one member wore a tie-dyed shirt or sported dreadlocks. References to "Mother Earth" or "fighting the man" were few and far between. Rather than discussing plans for protesting outside the Main Building, the students of GreeND talked about their membership on various committees inside it. The group's president, Lourdes Long (ND '09), has little reason to encourage her peers to shake up the administration. After all, Long works as a student intern in the new Office ofSustainability, meets with administrators on a regular basis on the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee and says she has no conflicts witl1 the powers­that-be. "I am welcome everywhere. I've found collaboration everywhere. I don't think we [GreeND] have to push for anything," Long 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I,19 
' . 
COVER STORY 
says. GreeND epitomizes environmentalism 
at Notre Dame. It's well-organized, it's 
powerful and, surprisingly, it's brand new. 
Almost everywhere on campus there are signs that Notre Dame has decided to "go green." Projectors in every classroom now display a command to turn them off when not in use in an effort to save energy. Recycling bins sit atop trash cans that line the quads. Student organizations are boasting their commitments to "go green," making their announcements via recycled 
paper· or e-mail. Good Charlotte and The Cool Kids played underneath an energy­efficient light system. The Reverend John 
I. Jenkins, C.S.C.'s sermon at the academic year's Opening Mass focused on the need for common action in the face of worrisome environmental concerns. But while the signs are certainly there, one has to wonder: When did.Notre Dame start to care about the environment? And is the movement here 
to stay? 
Most major environmental news from 
Notre Dame's past has been that of 
failure. From 1991 to 1995, the power 
plant repeatedly failed emissions tests, 
culminating in a quarter-million dollar fine 
from the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency in 1998 for violating the Clean Air 
Act.· After these violations, the university 
hired more · personnel to monitor the air 
quality of the power plant. A decade later, 
the Sustainable Endowment Institute gave Notre Dame a D-minus on its 2007 College Sustainability Report Card. The grade was the lowest given to any school on that year's report and included this harsh indictment of the university's environmental policies: "As far as can be determined, the University 
of Notre Dame has not made any public 
attempts to approach the issue of campus 
sustainability.'' 
While these events garnered the 
most press, members of the Notre 
Dame community quietly implemented 
environmental initiatives on campus. The 
university recycling program began in 
1990, offering recycling services for cans, 
newspaper, glass and plastic. The university 
collected over 100,000 pounds of recyclable 
waste in its first year. As the program grew 
throughout the decade, that figure rose to 
over 5 million pounds by 1998 and over 14 
million pounds by 2004. 
For many years, environmental.ism at 
NotreDamedependedonstudententhusiasm 
about the issue, Long says. "As pop culture 
waxed and waned, student interest would be 
more or less," Long says. "It was 20 students 20 I SCHOLASTIC I 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 
who met once a week in the CSC [Center for Social Concerns] to do river clean-ups.'' Outside of this core group of students, there was not a strong push on campus for eco-friendly reform. The one official campus group that did exist, Students for Environmental Action (SEA), had trouble cooperating with the administration. "For so long, the relationship between students and administrators was so antagonistic. For better or for worse, SEA had a bad rap in the Main Building," Long says. 
"There's no widespread cooperation among the faculty. There are many people that have environmental interest and teach courses~ But there's no coordination." 
-KENNETH SAYRE 
The university has been committed to the . environmentformanyyears butsimplyfailed to make their efforts public, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves says. He says the university has responsibly monitored the power plant, steadily developed the recycling program and maintained a "green belt" · (undeveloped land around the perimeter ·of . camp1-1s). "I think we've always been pretty : : active, so I don't see it as an inflection point," Affleck-Graves says: 
Long traces· the turning point for the environmental movement bad~ to a decision made by Affleck-Graves in December 2006. He reinstated the Energy · and Environmental Issues Committee, a group made up of administrators, faculty, staff and students dedicated .to advising university leadership about green issues and broadening awareness· of these issues throughout campus. Affleck-Graves says the committee provides coordination to the environmental movement that was lacking before. "Things were happening grassroots, which was really good. But I felt that the units I had really needed some faculty and student input," Affleck-Graves says. 
According to Long, the reinstatement of the committee was a monumental moment. "For the first time, you had a direct connection between what the students were doing and what the Main Building was doing," she says. The committee has two seats for students who each serve on the board for one year. This direct connection meant that student projects were given a guiding hand by administration. "Institutional support means money, legitimacy and general know­how about the way things work," Long says. 
While the administratiori's help encouraged the student movement, Affleck­Graves' administration relied on the students to get the ball rolling on environmental projects. "Probably the biggest impetus over the past two or three years has been the growing interest among the students," Affleck-Graves says. 
The first' cooperative effort between students and administration took place during the 2007 football season with Game Day Recycling. Long and GreeND Vice­President, junior Colleen Kelly, originally deyeloped the pilot program but f?.und _ 
· support ·from Notre Dame's Director of Business Operations, Amy Coughlin. "She pretty, much redeveloped this program together with us," Kelly says. After successfully distributing recycling bags to select tailgates in 2007, Game Day Recycling became an institutional program in 2008 
, and has expanded to all tailgate areas. 
· The process of institutional organization culminated with the creation of the Office of Sustainability in January 2008. Affleck-Graves says this office offers more coordination to the environmental effort. "We just felt at this time, there's so much happening that it's probably worth having one person to coordinate the activities . because they are all happening in different 
· places," Affleck-Graves says. The university hired Jim Mazurek, a 1991 Notre Dame graduate, as director of sustainability in May 2008. _ 
One of the new office's responsibilities is to oversee institutional operations. The 
· office works with building staff, power plant staff and those who collect recycling to ensure that all operations are running 
· efficiently. 
The other major responsibility of the office is education and outreach to the Notre Dame community. "We inform the campus community about what sustainability is, things that the university is doing to become 

. . . ,
. ~ --------~ --­
COVER STORY 

more sustainable and, most importantly, how they can be involved," Rachel Novick, the director of education and outreach for the Office of Sustainability, says. 
The office also manages the Green Loan Fund, a fund that encourages environmental improvements to Notre Dame's campus. "The idea is that people can come with an idea and say, 'I think we can do this and not only will it be environmentally beneficial, but it also has an economic benefit.' But it . needs a bit of initial capital,"' Affleck-Graves says. People can take loans from the fund to invest in green projects on campus. Loans can range anywhere from a couple thousand to a million dollars. The senior gift of the class of 2008 went toward setting up the loan fund. 
As the administration organized itself, students followed suit. In March 2007, a group of Notre Dame students went on a Center for Social Concerns seminar to Washington, D.C. to meet with lobbyists, think tanks and elected officials who work in energy policy. Kelly was among the students on the trip. "We were worried that what we learned in Washington was not going to translate to Notre Dame," she says. A core group of five students set out to create a new student movement on campus. The movement became GreeND and met for the first time in November 2007, drawing over 80 people to its first meeting. The group now acts as an umbrella organization, bringing all participants in the environmental movement into one room. 
In addition to the student and administrative units of the movement, a faculty group recently developed on campus. The Notre Dame Energy Center was formed in 2005 to research energy-related issues in the College of Engineering. The group offers grant money to scholars researching energy-related issues, undergraduate fellowships for energy research and funding for faculty or graduate students looking to develop a course about energy issues. The Energy Center also sponsored the university's first Energy Week in October 2007. 
While this group represents a coordinated effort to research alternative energy sources and energy efficiency, professors from many different disciplines have failed to organize to talk about the wider issues at hand regarding the environment. Philosophy professor Kenneth Sayre, who teaches an environmental philosophy course, says this lack of organization among faculty is one of the biggest faults of the campus movement. "There's no widespread cooperation among the faculty. There are many people that have environmental interest and teach courses. But there's no coordination," Sayre says. While Sayre applauds the efforts of the Notre Dame Energy Center, he says that simply finding cleaner fuels does not get at the source of the environmental crisis. "The problem is only in part the side effects of 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 

COVER STORY 
COME TOGETHER Students gather at a GreeND meeting, one of three main organizations geared 
towards promoting sustainability. 
fossil fuel. The basic problem is we're using too much energy," he says. 
Sayre added that an organized faculty discussion would be more productive for the environmental movement than the current wave of enthusiasm on campus. "We need faculty getting together who are working actively in this field and exchanging ideas rather than administrative_ publicity performances," Sayre says. 
Sayre attributes the new administrative excitement to concerns about the university's· · image after the poor grade by the Sustainable Endowment Institute. "Notre Dame was at the very botto1:11, and that stung people. So they started to do things to try to improve 
22 I SCHOLASTIC 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 
the image," Sayre says. "The university's official involvement in environmental matters is very recent and probably· will continue as long as it's important to maintain the image." 
Long says that the university is often accused of reacting to bad publicity, but she believes the administration's change ofhear-t took place before the university earned its bad grade· on the report. "The Observer and other national media groups say, 'Oh, Notre Dame got a D-minus so then they did this,"' Long says. "When the report ca_rd came out in the spring, the Energy and Environmental Issues committee had already reformed. It was just poor timing." 
Affleck-Graves says thatincreasednational attention to environmental issues has drawn the university to make their environmental efforts more visible. "One can't pretend that this hasn't become an issue of more public interest. I think what that has done, is it has brought to the forefront more of the things we're already doing," Affleck-Graves says. 
Long says that she believes the university would not make decisions purely based on the whims of the general public. "It's such a fad to be green now, its such a sexy word," Long says. "But when was the last time Notre Dame did something because it was sexy? That's not why they are doing it." 
One motive for the change could be economic reasons. Affleck-Graves stresses that projects funded by the Green Loan Fund will be both environmentally and economically beneficial for the university. The university recently invested four million dollars in retrofitting 24 campus buildings to improve energy efficiency. Novick estimates that it will take ·six to sev:en years for the improvements to pay for themselves in energy savings, and that the university plans on starting with projects 
·· that will save money.· 
Aside from the motivation to make the university more efficient, the ethical concern for the environment plays a role· as well. Pope Benedict XVI has made the environment a pressing issue for Catholics in recent years, addressing both the United Nations and World Youth Day about climate 
. change. Affleck-Graves affirms that these issues have a moral component to them. 
"One of our responsibilities, especially as a Catholic university, is concern for the environment, concern for the living conditions we leave for future generations," 
· Affleck-Graves says. "We can't consume everything in our generation and leave nothing for future generations." Whatever i:he motives, . the recent charge to go green has left some concrete results. All new campus construction is adhering to LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental DesigIJ.) standards, a voluntary national standard for a sustainable building process and energy efficiency. The new Stinson Remick Engineering building will include a solar panel to generate carbon­free electricity. The recycling program has changed to a single stream program, allowing all recyclable items to be thrown into one .bin. And the univ:ersity's 15-year­old sprinkler system will be replaced with a new higher efficiency system by 2009. The cozy new relationship between . 
students and administration does not mean who bring their own, reusable bag to Grab 'n' that the environmental movement does not Go will get their name entered into a raffle face any serious obstacles. Regardless of for prizes, such as dinner at Sorin's or 25 free how much institutional reform takes place Flex Points. The other project will be the to make Notre Dame a sustainable calllpus, dorm electricity competition. At midnight meaningful change requires particip~tion the day of the forum, a competition will and commitment from the student body. begin among dorms to see which dorm can 
One major event use the least amount of for engaging students electricity per capita. is the Notre Dame "But when was Members of Notre Forum on Sustainable Dame's Department Energy. On the forum the last time of Utilities will check Web site, the university . electricity meters has billed the event Notre Dame did on dorms each week as "a bold invitation to determin~ which to the entire Notre something because dorm is using the least Dame family to embark amount of energy. The upon a thoughtful and it was sexy? That's Office of Sustainability comprehensive course will work with student of sustainability in our not why they are volunteers from personal lifestyles, our GreeND to promote the institutional practices, doing it." competition. GreeND our intellectual life plans to send volunteers and research, and our -LOURDES LONG door to door around 
c1v1c commitments." As an event with such lofty goals, numerous follow-up events have been planned, including a film festival, an undergraduate research symposium and a dorm conservation competition. 
Sayre says he believes the forum is more about maintaining a good image for the university than promoting a·· meaningful conversation about the issues. "It's just a publicity set-up. I don't want to denigrate it or cast dispersions on it, but it's put together by people in charge of the image, not people who are studying the environment." 
Senior Michelle Byrne, a member of the forum planning committee, believes the event can succeed in · engaging students with the issues. "I think that the topic of sustainable energy is compelling for all students, regardless of majors or interests, because it is so int~rdisciplinary. Energy touches all fields, from finance to chemistry to politics to theology," Byrne says. 
Past attempts to engage the student body have been met with mixed response. Last year, Notre Dame participated in the nationwide RecycleMania compet1t1on, a ten-week program that was advertised on campus as a contest between dorms to see which dorm could recycle the most. Six dorms failed to even participate in the competition. 
Novicksays that the OfficeofSustainability is planning two major student outreach programs for the fall semester. One will be 
campus offering to exchange old lightbulbs 
for more energy efficient light bulbs with students for free. Novick says that while the university is using incentives to encourage sustainable 
living now, eventually green living will 
simply be a part of life. "I think that over time some things just become the norm. Eventually, recycling is just something that you do, just like you take out the garbage 
and pay the bills." 
Sayre says that the goals of student activism, such as encouraging people to turn light switches off or to shower less frequently, only scratch the surface of addressing the 
problems at hand. He says true results can 
only come from radical changes in personal behavior. "Don't buy so much stuff. Don't buy 
things you don't really need," Sayre says. "Don't put so much effort and group energy into buying The Shirt. You don't need The Shirt, and when you make The Shirt, it has environmental consequences. It takes a 
society shaped by an entirely different set of values." While the discussion about sustainability 
is relatively new for the Notre Dame community, Long believes the issue is here to stay. "This is a huge issue. It's not going to go away. It's not a fad. It's not the trendy thing. It's going to be the major issue for our country and for the world," she says. "It's not going to solve itself." 
the Grab · 'n' Go raffle program. Students 

CU'LTURE 
Campu Chatter 
Department of Ghostbusting 
vVashington Hall's steeple stands above campus alongside the bell tower of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Golden Dome and Touchdown Jesus, adding to the beauty and grandeur of the Notre Dame skyline. But this building, unlike its other soaring counterparts, has a much darker and more mysterious past. Many students are aware of the ghost of George Gipp, the beloved Gipp er, that haunts the old hall. Not many students, however, are familiar with the other ghosts which inhabit its 162-year-old walls. 
Scholastic editors decide to embark upon a dangerous mission to unearth the secrets of Washington Hall. Four of us arrive on the steps of the shadowy edifice just after midnight, chilled by the unusually cold wind ofan early September night. We ask ourselves if the steps we stand on are are indeed the steps that the Gipp slept on one late night after curfew when, as the rumor goes, he contracted his fatal case of pneumonia. We knock upon the old doors as the bells of the Basilica ring eerily across campus and bats flutter around the Dome. The large door creaks open and Hall Manager Kat Lane stands behind it in the dimly lit lobby, ready to escort us into the unknown. After making our way up creeping staircases, along dark corridors and past cobwebbed rooms we end, shivering, in a dark and cavernous rehearsal theater near the bell tower. "Well," Kat says with an eerie grin, "this is where I leave you." The door clangs shut behind her and an electric light clicks on gradually to reveal four senior girls standing forlorn in an empty room, left to fend for themselves overnight in Notre Dame's creepiest building. 
That is the story I could have written. 
Instead four editors scramble up the steps of Washington Hall, Starbucks in hand, at 10 p.m., anxiously awaiting the horrors within. We had hoped to enter during the creepy hour ofmidnight, but were not even allowed to-stay past normal closing time. Before entering the building, we pull out a page from nd.edu/~washhall/ghost to read about the spirits that inhabit the ominous building. The most eerie story includes a "student professor," Jim Minavi, who died in the hall in 1919. Two years later, he returned: "At the dead ofnight he would wake the hall's eight intellectuals from slumber with a prodigious blast, and when they went fearfully to investigate he would be gone." The 1921 Donze said it was the most talked about thing on campus -"like today's 'Vagina Monologues,"' Managing Editor Molly Slavin jokes. We do indeed meet Kat Lane, who gives us a short tour highlighting the technical aspects of Washington Hall and a few assorted facts about the architectural history of the building. When we ask her about recorded deaths in the building, we receive the standard tour-guide version of the Gipper story. She leaves us to oversee the last minutes of the production of "The Winter's Tale," and giggling, we decide to construct a makeshift s_eance. With cold garlic bread to "tempt the spirits," and three flashlights in lieu of candles, we hold hands in a circle on the front steps of Washington Hall, chanting, "Oh beloved Gipper, we bring you gifts from life into death: Commune with us, Gipper, and move among us." 
Shockingly, nothing happens. -Christina Golubski 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

CULTURE 
REVIEWS&PREVIEWS 

Double the Laughs 
Claire Kenney 
Don't let the laughter stop with 
Joel McHale's recent appearance 
on campus; more comedy is 
stopping by Notre Dame. Two 
more chances for hilarity will be 
at Legends at 10 p.m. on September 19 
-Theo Von and Bert Kreischer. The 
two comedians will present back-to­
back shows produced by Legends 
and the Student Union Board. Von jokes primarily about his dysfunctional family and the South. He has appeared on shows such as "Last Comic Standing" and "Reality Bites Back." Kreischer, once named the number one partier in the United States by Rolling Stone magazine, takes a somewhat cruder tone. 
After viewing work by both professionals, it is evident what an entertaining double feature Von and Kreischer will present. The most appealing aspect of this show is the versatility of humor the two bring. Between Von and Kreischer, you are bound to get a laugh (or two) out ofyour Friday night. 
Put This Album On Your Tab 
Courtney Ball 
The New Kids on the Block have been around the block ... several times. In fact, for 14years they were M.I.A. from the music scene and moved from the block into homes complete with wives and children. The original boy band members are no longer boys and return to the studio this time as grown men. 
Some ofthe songs (notably" Summertime") are catchy enough to play at the finest ofdorm parties. With an album title as unoriginal as "The Block," however, and songs such as "Sexify My Love" and "Put It On My Tab" (featuring Akon), I have a bit of a hard time taking the NKOTB's "comeback" seriously. 
Anyone looking to rediscover his or her inner preteen and relive the glory days of boy bands is encouraged to give the album a chance. When you remember that the kids serenading you with "bounce for me/bounce for me" are pushing 40, however, no one will blame you for bouncing this album. 
A True Fighting Irish Legend 
Mary Margaret Skelly 
The Saturday football game crowd on campus is a weekly 
reminder of the force of the Notre Dame community, but 
occasiona)ly we receive a more powerful affirmation of just how 
sacred this fellowship really is. This time it comes through a book 
by Haley Scott Demaria (ND '95) titled "What Though the 
Odds." 
Demaria was a freshman swimmer just beginning her spring 
semester at Notre Dame. On January 24, she was traveling home 
with the women's swim team from a meet at Northwestern 
University. Shortly after midnight, the bus taking the team home 
hit an ice patch and flipped off the side ofthe Indiana toll road only 
four miles from campus. Two of Demaria's teammates died, and 
Demaria broke three of the vertebrate in her spine. After multiple 
surgeries, however, she not only relearned how to walk, but also 
swam competitively again. 
Demaria's story is incredibly humbling, and her engaging writing _style allows the reader to experience the range· of emotions she, 
her family and her friends experienced throughout her strenuous 
recovery. Demaria's story is a true Fighting Irish legend and a 
poignant lesson in why every weekend we "cheer, cheer for old 
Notre_ Dame." 
Energy-Saving Entertainment 
Kate Zinsmeister 
At 7 p.m. on September 19, the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will play host to the 2008 Forum Film Festival. The short films, some directed by current Notre Dame students, all focus on energy and the environment. 
Featured films include: "Living in Community," which highlights the sustainable lifestyles of the Dancing Rabbit Eco-Village in Missouri; "A Convenient Truth," a comedy about Notre Dame· student Christopher Gallo and his desperate plan to bring warm weather to South Bend by taking advantage ofglobal warming; and "The Little Fan," which explores wind power as an energy source. 
If you are looking for an entertaining way to learn more about sustainability, this Friday night film festival is for you, "Student perceptions of energy issues range from complacency to deep concern," Frank Incropera, professor of mechanical engineering and chair of the post-forum committee, says. "I do indeed hope that the festival will stimulate behavior and attitude changes, particularly with respect to conservation and the use of different energy options." 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I ScH01AsT1c 1·2s 
' ' , . . . :. . . ---' -_· ' \: -) . . -. " . . -. ------· ~--~ .. ' . , . . 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign up for your Notre Dame Graduate Portrait @ 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2009 DOME Yearbook 
(Use the school password "DOME 2009" to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) 

Who: Class of 2009 Students 
When: Pictures taken Now through September 26 
Where: La Fortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2009 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 
Remember 
Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com School Password ­DOME2009 
. I 

Golden is Thy Fame 
.. 
ND interns help the U.S. bring back gold 
Jessica Farmwald 
It turns out that athletes aren't the only Domers who helped the 
U.S. bring home gold medals from this year's Summer Olympics in Beijing. 
Junior fencer Mariel Zagtinis took the first gold ofthe Games for the U.S. in the women's sabre event, and alumnae soccer players Shannon Boxx ('99) and Kate Markgraf ('98) helped the women's soccer team defeat Brazil 1-0 in the final. 
· But behind the scenes, nine Notre Dame students interning with NBC were working hard to bring the stories of the U.S. athletes to the American public -and sometimes even lending a helping hand to the Olympians themselves. 
"Itwas like four days into it. I was assigned to set up the interview room, and to entertain and just make ·sure the athletes were comfortable before their interviews," sophomore Catherine Flynn, who worked in the Chaoyang Park Beach Volleyball Ground, says. "So I packed coolers and made snacks for all of them. And before I got to meet them, I was called to run down to security because there was a package that was delivered that was really important for one of the athletes." 
After racing to deliver the mysterious package, Flynn learned that it contained bathing suits for the American beach volleyball duo ofMisty May-Treanor and Kerri Walsh. 
"They could have been disqualified if the bathing suits hadn't arrived in time," Flynn says. The suits came in handy as the pair took their second consecutive gold in the event in the midst of a downpour. 
Not all of the intern's responsibilities, however, were quite as glamorous. 
Senior Claire Hutchinson describes 16-18 hour days spent at the Water Cube. "On a typical day, we'd get to the pool. around seven or eight," Hutchinson says. "Usually early in the morning we were picking people up on golf carts and driving them in, making copies of the start list for the events every day, other simple stuff. One ofour producers always had to have certain drinks in a cooler, so that had to be done." 
Hutchinson and three other interns rotated between working in the control room, commentating booth, office and helping on the pool deck. "You were the extra hands when they needed you," Hutchinson says. 
Because the swimming events were filmed live, there was extra pressure on the NBC interns at the Water Cube -not least because of America's· fixation on swimmer Michael Phelps' quest for a record-breaking eight gold medals in a single Olympic Games. "Everything had to be done, and it had to be done right the very first time," Hutchinson says. 
Hutchinson's job did have its perks, though. "I was at the pool for the 400 freestyle relay," Hutchinson says. "And I was there when Michael [Phelps] won his eighth ... It was history. It was very exciting to be able to see that." 
SPORTS 
/ 
ii 
1' 
II 
ii 
11 
Andy Gray 
They hobble down the hall toward me, wounded, dazed, drenched in sweat -men clearly beaten by some arduous crucible from which they have just escaped. "It's a war crime, what they do to us, Andy," the bearded one grumbles over the rhythmic popping of the taller one's right knee, which cracks with every step. You're thinking: sweat, beards; battles . . . and one clearly has a peg leg . . . they're pirates in training. Good guess. They were saying "aaarrgh" a lot. But the two characters introduced here, juniors Tom Pappas and Mike Desjardins, are merely returning from a practice with the Siegfried interhall football team. The "war crime" lineman Pappas (the bearded one) refers to is a series of sprints, runs and drills involved in every practice session. The intensity of Notre Dame's interhall football league is no secret. Founded by Knute Rockne, it remains the only non­

military academy, full-contact, full-pads intramural program in the nation. And with a championship contest in Notre Dame Stadium as the prize for surviving the regular season and playoffs, there should be no confusion as to why players are willing to work as hard as they do. 
The Stanford Griffins experienced the joy of winning that championship game last year, and the returning players are certainly not blase about playing in the House that Rockne Built. "That's why you play interhall. That's why °you put on the pads," senior Stanford Captain Karun Ahuja says. 
Siegfried senior Charlie Drury echoe~ Abuja's sentiment, but from the perspective of one who has· narrowly missed the chance to play in the Stadium more than once. "That's goal number one, to be in the their practice, Drury's Ramblers count one, two, three and yell "Stadium!" as a team to remind everyone just what their goal is. To be able to walk out on that field is clearly no small honor for these players. 
This may be especially true because interhall football provides a unique opportunity for most of these students to be able to play full-contact ball beyond 
--high school. "When you're done with high school," Drury says, "you think you're done ~vith football forever. Then you get here and you get another shot; that's something you can't get anywhere else." An atmosphere of intense dorm rivalry permeates many of the interhall contests. Whenaskedtocommentonsuchantagonisms, · -the four Stanford senior players -Ahuja, .John Burke, David Costanzo and Brian Salvi 
Stadium ... That's what every guy's thinking .:_-'-reply almost in unison, "Keenan sucks!" about when he's in the weight room or out _Stanford and Keenan are adjacent dorms running," Drury says. At the conclusion of joined by a shared chapel, and their game 

SPORTS 

each regular season is known as "The Battle for the Chapel." It had been two decades since Stanford's last win in the face-off, until last year when they bested Keenan in the regular season and again in Notre Dame Stadium for the championship. 
"[The Keenan game] is definitely the game where we get the most fans. People in the dorm care that much more," Salvi says. 
Fans. At a regular season intramural football game. Find that on another campus. 
With the incentive of playing on the Notre Dame Stadium turf and the intensity of heated rivalries and full-contact football, interhall players say they must work harder and endure more than the average intramural athlete might anticipate. 
"We have guys that, when we finish our conditioning workouts, are ready to throw up -if they don't throw up," Siegfried Coach P.J. Zimmer, a 2008 Notre Dame MBA graduate, says. "They don't enjoy doing it, but they know it's necessary ifwe're going to be ready on game day." 
With full-contact play also comes greater risk. "A kid got hurt our freshman year and spent the next six _months in a wheelchair," Salvi says. "This stuff is not a joke." Notre Dame interhall football is not for the faint of stomach, body or heart. 
That stoutness of heart comes to the fore when the workouts are at their toughest. A Siegfried practice, for instance, begins with a 1,400-yard run for all players, Pappas says. This is followed by sprints, as well as tackling and blocking drills, directed by a coach barking, "Ready ... hit!" And they certainly do hit, with all the snarling intensity expected at a championship game. At the end of a 90-minute practice, the whole team does one more set of sprints. 
"When you line up, and you're doing those 
· last five or 10 sprints," Drury says, "your legs are numb, your chest hurts because you're breathing so hard, you're not running for you anymore ... you're running for 23 other guys out there." He compares this strong camaraderie to the kind of close-• knit atmosphere that surrounds a varsity program. 
Hard work, however, isn't all it takes to win. A good team needs talent, which players say sometimes even rivals skill found on the varsity level. "We had a couple ofguys on the team last year who should have been playing Division-I football," Stanford's Burke says. 
"Zo [Costanzo] could be playing for Notre Dame right now ifhe wanted to." In the past, varsity scouts have been seen roaming the sidelines of interhall games looking for a diamond in the rough. 
Back in the fall of 1998, then-freshman John Crowther -affectionately nicknamed 
"Cheeks" -began to practice with the Morrissey Hall football team. Assistant Coach Father Bill Steech quickly took note of Crowther's snapping prowess. A week later, Crowther was surprised by a call from one of the varsity football coaches inviting him to try out for the university team. 
By his junior year, Crowther had worked ­his way up to starting snapper for extra points and field goals, and was later given the responsibility of-snapping on punts as well. He returned to Notre Dame for a fifth year as an MBA student and a scholarship varsity athlete. 
Though most interhall football_ players won't ever get to take the field on a Saturday wearing a Notre Dame jersey, their passion for the game keeps them practicing and playing hard. 
"I still get to come out every Sunday and hit people," Burke says. "I think it's something pretty special." 0 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 


iJJ .~:~·-~) i~j~c~ ID Q.44 '....,,,!§~·:-,....,,;
..~Jt ~~··~· 
Malisha Samarasekera
... . .· . 
fter 28 years as a lawyer for the Indianapolis firm Baker & Daniels,Jack Swarbrick faces a new ch~llenge -his first year as the·
A
university's at.hletic dir~~t.or (AD). Swarbrick replaces Kevin White, who left Notre Dame after seven y.ears to take o.ver the AD 
job at Duke University. A 1976 Notre Dame alumnus, Swarbrick holds a degree in economics from the university as well as a law degree from Stanford University. He was highly involved with athletic development in Indianapolis, playing an integral role in establishing the city as the NCAA headquarters. He worked to.secure a cont~actto host the NCAA men's basketball Final Four every five years until 2039. Swarbrick also served as vice president of the committee that landed the bid to host the·2012 Super Bowl. 
. ·• ·.. , .... . 
What wasyour initial reacti~~ when-you were offered the job ofAD at Notre Dame? 
. There were sort oftwo phases, one when I was firs~ contacted. I was interested, but there were a lot ofthings I didn't know about it. And then . when I got t~ spend time with Father Jenkins, ithad a dramatic impact on iny view. I felt so strongly about his capabilities as a leader and his vi~ion for the university that I became very enthusiastic and very excited about the prospects of doing this, and when finally notified that I · was offered the job, I could not have been more excited. 
You did some really impressive work. in Indianapolis. How did you manage being a lawyer while also 
getting involved with athletics? · It was pure chance. I always say it's really important to let iour practice_ lead you. I was not trying. to be involved in spo~ts. lwent i:o law school, and I was an employment lawyer, and I liked doing that. Professionally, an ~pportunity came to.tepresenta young gymnast whe>. was trying to protect her eligibility. That led me to a career in spor~ and representing a lot ofdiffe~ent organizations. I'd come to Indianapolis to live l;>ecause I wanted to be involved in the 
. community; an& -wha{was goirig Oil. in the community at that time wasi a m:ajor "effort to rebuild the city through 
· . sports. These· two things _were completely independeritbut moved on parallei tracks. Soon my legal practice was aU0 about sports, and ~y volunteer life was _all about sports. · 
•What goals ar~ you hoping to accomplish as the new A,D? . I have_ several, and one is certainly to continue the traclition of. excellence that surrounds this ­program. We want to win championships, and we want to provide a great educational ~xperie~c~ · · ;for t;he student athletes'. vVe have some additional fa~ility challenges that I want to take on and _ 
, make sure we do weH. We have some scheduling issues as we move forward which are goh~g -· · ..to be very importa11~ for us: And.then our industry is changing a lot, and I want to make ~:ore· . . :i;hatwe continue .to be "o/~11-po_sitionedin the industty and can react appropriately to whatever 
changes come ouf;w~y. . . . ,. . 
._ .Can you explain the. importance ofremaining an ind,ependent school infootball? · · From a tradition perspective it's very important. We always have been, and there used to be .. • a lot more [independent schools]. It's such a part of the identity of this program, and it also 
. reinforces the goal of the university, which-is .~o be a national university and the leading .· Catholic university in the United States. . . . . 
, . .. 
•How do you feel about message b"ards and biogs like ndNation? , .I'm fine with·a_n,yt~ing where the author of the comment is willing to have that attributed<to him or her. !think tha:f's very important, and .I. think that's a standard. 0fmedia 
· communications. The faceless, nameless onlin_e handle that doesn't identify the author is not a good thing. As our fans a_ccess that information, they have to be very careful to think about the source. There are a lot of great.sources out there and a lot of great sites that 
· dedicate themselves to Notre Dame athletics, but there are also a lot of people who get online _and make a representation that is not true. It take:S•6n a Hfe of its ciwn. 
,•,;/ 
.. .·Jyhat isyourfavorite sport and why? 
·Well,Tlove sports generally because it's not about a.particular game, it's the dynamics of the ·. pers<>nal elements of !t• Watching ~•-great c:~ich teaching a_ great athlete, perfecting ~eir craft. ·:7 tlj.a_t'sjust fun no m#ter whlch en,vfronmerit ii: is, ~utI'm,probably a bigger baseba_ll faii than -· anything else. When I was !I young boy going to baseball games in NewYork, that.sets the co~tse · for you in a way that you're stuck with for the rest of your l~fe. I saw the very first home game the". 
New York Mets ever played -'-my grandfather got me out of kindergarten and took me to the game. That's the sort of thing thatsticks with you. · ', 0 Prior to last Saturday's Notre Dame-Michigan game, a statue oflegendary football coach Lou Holtz was dedicated at Gate D ofNotre Dam~ Stadium. The statue, sculpted by 1962 ND graduateJerry McK.enna, features Holtz calling a play on the sidelines with two ofhis players beside him. Holtz is the most recent in the series ofchampionship coaches · to be honored at the stadium. In 1988, Holtz led Nofr:e Dame to a_national championship and was named coach ofthe .. year. In 11 seasons with the Irish, he compiled a 100~30-2 recorcl and is second to ~ute Rockne in career wins. Holi;z will be inducted into the College·Football Hall ofFame next summer ... . . 

,· '•. ,. 
Several members of the No. 2-ranked Irish women's soc;_cer team have recently earned national or Big East recognition. Brittany Bock, a senior forward, was named to the Soccer America National Team of the Week. Bock was also named 
. Big East Offensive Player of the Week following her game-winning goal against North Carolina. Senior co-captain Carrie Dew and freshman Jessica Schuveiller were honored for their outstanding defense hi the Carolina Classic and 
) ·• . . . 
were named to the Socc~r Buzz Elite }'eam ofthe Week. Junior Kelsey Lysander was recognized as Big East Goalkeeper · ofthe Week. The Irish are on the road this weekend, but are back home against Louisville 011.September 26 .. . · 
The Irish cross-country teams kicked off their season at Valparaiso's Crusader Open earlier this month, and for the 
second straight year, the women took home the title. Notre Dame placed seven runners in the top nine, with sophombre 
Marissa Treece winning the race in 17:42. Juniors Lindsey Ferguson and Beth Taci pl~ced second _and fourth, 
respectively, and sophomore Theresa Cattuna finished fifth. The men's team, led by Kevin Veselik's fifth place finish, 
placed second in the meet. Freshman Kelly Lynch finished just behind Veselik, and Spencer Carter, William Cernanec,. 
Kevin McFadden and Trevor Waliszewski took spots 11~14 for the Irish. The cross-co~try teams host the National ·.:· . Catholic Championships on September 19 and the Notre Dame Invitational on October· 3; · 
Listening In~ .. 

)'.i\f;ft~ij. don't you make yourself useful and make me a sandwich?" \\{}8:(})P' :__ drunk male chauvinist to female NDSP officer while being cuffed 

' that's no fun." .,,_ Grab'n'Go employee to student wearing "StaND Against Hate" T-shirt ­

fZe can't get rid ofyears ofsex and abuse." ·~ distraught Goodwill shopper 
,:;)J student: "Go?d Monday?" fil ··student: "Cookies and boobs ... so yes." 
Back In the Day... 
Outside of Notre Dame, the idea of a dorm party seems pretty ridiculous. People at other schools are amazed that the dorms here (well, the guys' dorms) are allowed to host bass-thumpin', fist-pumpin' "social gatherings" with blatant underage drinking in the same space where more . 
"responsible" students might be studying or perhaps sleeping (as long as the doors are closed and thl!re's no beer in the hallway, because no one wants to pay that $20 fine). I brought this up to an alum I worked with last summer, and he informed me that ND is way lame now compared to his • glory days. You know how dorms all have funds so we can get stuff like pizza and T-shirts? .You· know what those were used for, according to my source? Keggers. Apparently they were a Friday afternoon staple in Flanner Hall. Underage? No problem! The university somehow managed to make itself legally exempt from the Indiana state minimum drinking age of 21. So, while I'm grateful that I can go get ice cream for free with my section, I think most of us would be OK with 
· the idea of getting a case or two instead. Nothing too fancy, maybe just some Coors. Come on, Notre Dame, why would you let this tradition die? You used to be so cool. -Natalie Kratz 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 18 SEPTEMBER 2008 

HUMOR 
It's been a long summer, my children, almost as long_ as the golden locks of our own golden-armed boy. The Gipp, for one, is happy to have escaped the summer addictions of Michael Phelps (So many medals! So triangular a torso!) and singing karaoke to AC/DC's "Thunderstruck" with high school geometry teachers. Home just ain't what it used to be, but luckily, most Notre Dame traditions never die. Cheese fries come and go, but it comforts Gipp to know that projectile vomiting and amnesia episodes will never let us down. 
Our first story finds us at a competition of concentration and consumption. The rules of this clever game are fairly set, but under certain circumstances can change to allow for crowd-pleasing creativity. S~ch· was the case the other night when one daring Domer -we'll call him "Usain Bolt" in honor of his self-assuredness -challenged a group of seven females -we'll call them "the U.S. Women's Gymnastics Team" -to a scintillating round of "turn over the beverage container." The gall! The insanity! What kind of man could possibly expect to destroy seven solo cups solo before seven individual girls? Only the ingenious and drunken Usain Bolt, who even made our gymnasts agree that a loss in the game would also equal a loss of all garments. Yes, Usain Bolt, already warmed up by an hour's worth of liver-stretching, was up to the challenge. At the gun, our favorite Jamaican sprinted out to an early lead, hitting the first three cups with an ease known only to men motivated by the hope of seeing a skivvied female form. But Team USA refused to give up so easily, and high drama ensued at cup six -the parties were tied. Back and forth, spectators waited to see who would be defeated and disrobed. And much like our own U.S. gymnasts, in the end, our girls just couldn't stick it. Usain continued his unbeaten streak and avoided streaking. And in his moment of exaltation, overcome by pride for his God-given abilities, staunch determination and ever-expanding stomach capacity, our Usain could no longer hold back his joy . . . or anything else for that matter. Unable to find a path through the raucous and celebratory fans surrounding him, Usain had no choice but to project his liquid courage all over our second-place gymnasts. Sounds like someone shouldn't have been cranked up. 

But at least Usain's story has a discernable beginning, middle and end. Our next Domer -we'll call her "Rihanna" -had a night that began innocently enough. She recounts mild social indulgence, a free drink at our favorite football-themed establishment and quality time pocketing money from her roommate's family members. But after that point -Rihanna's mind went into Distubria. BLACKOUT. The darkness in the· light! After a significant amount 
.of undocumented time, Rihanna's next memory proceeded along the lines of "Shut Up and Drive," and she found herself riding in the back of a local squad car alongside a member of the Neighborhood Enforcement Service Team. Once home an.cl unprompted by the po-po, she proceeded to search for a sober, of-age housemate to converse with her new friends (a task which proved quite difficult). Once she found a qualified candidate, Rihanna proved her ableness to 
ifPiHegfPP 
o © o 0 o at gipper@nd.edu 
the officials by producing her valid state­issued ID. Eventually, the officers reminded Rihanna of how she'd been discovered: sprinting at break-neck speed and scaling fences through graduate residences. But since this had all happened in the Disturbia phase, Rihanna recollected nothing. Days later, Rihanna was approached by a 20­something man · who knew her name.. Believing him to be one of her civic saviors, Rihanna wondered why he wasn't wearing a badge. But when he asked ifshe had escaped the authorities unscathed, she knew that he could be none other than a prominent player in herDisturbia ... and he was too close for comfort. Rather than discover the hidden truth, Rihanna decided not to even speak about it, she didn't even want to think about it, and quickly ran away from her mystery suitor/accomplice/pursuer/stalker/friend/ Chris Brown. So was there a thief in the night? Was it a disease of the mind? Had Rihanna simply played a game of townie capture the flag gone terribly, terribly wrong? Perhaps we'll never know. But remember kids, when you drunkenly falter, try to be wise ... or you'll find you made all sorts of strange friends in Disturbia. 
And such closes chapter one of this fateful 
year . . . Gipp is satisfied and inspired by what he's seen so far, but he also knows we've only just begun. So never neglect your rallies, sons and daughters, especially those in South Bend alleys, and remember, Gipp ·is always here to listen to your tales and lend an embarrassingly public ear. Until next 
time, I remain your faithful ... 
Gippa!! 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

HUMOR 

Natalie Kratz 
Once again, one of my sisters 1s getting married. After accepting the position of bridesmaid, I insisted that she allow me to bring a date even though I am currently unattached. I don't want to spend the evening dancing with my brother, again, even though Pete can really bust a move. Now that she's folded, I've realized the flaw in my plan: I'm in danger of being the dateless bridesmaid. So, starting my quest early, I've narrowed the pool down to four lucky fellas. At the top of my list is Danny Boome, also known as the "Rescue Chef" on the Food Network. We need to keep in mind that there is the possibility that I'll catch the bouquet, and my date gets the garter. This means that he must have husband potential. Danny Boome is number one in my book primarily because of his excellent last name. But I've also taken into account that he can cook things, like sun dried tomato and pine nut stuffed beef tenderloin, and would most likely put up with my addiction to the Food Network. And let's not forget the sexy accent. I was considering asking Christian Bale, but I think that the abuse allegations from this past summer might cause a bit of a scandal. That is why I would ask him to come in charac'ter as Bruce Wayne. My family would rather see me with a wealthy, attractive man who cares about the well­being of others than an alleged abuser. And although it would be a bit of a downer if he left during the reception to fight crime, showing up in the Batmobile would more than make up for it. Or if he prefers, he could come as Jack from "Newsies." Let's be honest, I'm not picky. 
The next candidate is a man of many talents, Marky Mark Wahlberg. He could impress my relatives with his spectacular rapping (maybe he could even get the Funky Bunch to show up!). I'm sure he'd even reenact some of the best scenes from "The Italian Job" or "The Departed." Or he could just stand around in his underwear, like he did in his Calvin Klein modeling days, except that might be uncomfortable for my grandparents: And the groom. And I don't know if he's self-conscious about his third nipple, even though it would be a great conversation piece. So maybe him being half-naked at the reception isn't such a hot plan, but I think it's worth a shot. For an added bonus, according to Wikipedia, he's a practicing Catholic. Mom is gonna love that! 
While I realize that Will Smith is actually old enough to be my father, is married, has three children and questionable ties to the Church of Scientology, I still think that we'd make a good match. Plus, the wedding is in Philly, so he could even visit his old stomping grounds (and chill out, max, relax all cool. .. ). The only real problem is that he might actually do a better rendition of "Gettin' Jiggy Wit It" than I can, which would lead to serious tension, because I've probably worked harder than he has on perfecting the performance. 
So the only issue now is trying to contact my eligible bachelors. (Let's ignore the fact that the word bachelor implies unmarried.) I doubt they read their fan mail, and even if they did receive my formal invitation, they would probably think I'm just another .crazy. But I'm confident that we would have a great time at the wedding, and ifall goes as planned, we could exchange our own vows soon enough. I'll just bank on the possibility that at least one of these guys reads Scholastic. So Danny/Christian/Marky/Will, if you aren't too busy the first weekend in January, you can contact me via the magazine office. Or the Backer ... I'll be sitting next to the cutie in the jorts. 
18 SEPTEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
Q&Awith MEGAN KRIZMANICH 
Until two years ago, junior science-business major Megan Krizmanich never realized that she stood with her mouth open. Thanks to 1,200 hours of video footage of her senior year of high school, however, she learned a lot about herself ... as did the rest ofAmerica. Krizmanich is one of the stars of the indie 
,;):[{;documentary turned hit flick "American Teen," which was released on July 25. · The film follows five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., through a year of 1mrequited love, college acceptance letters and general teen angst. 
·. ···• Scholastic: How did you get involved with this movie? M~gan K:rizmanich: The director kind of had this picture to capture the high school experience. [She] picked out ten cities in the Midwest, and I gave her the tour of my town. Everyone else went through a casting call. I think about two­thirds of my senior class ended up auditioning. 
S: Have you met any celebrities? MK: I met a lot of celebrities; it was very surreal. I was definitely happy to come back to Notre Dame and be more grounded. It was intimidating to be in Hollywood all summer [promoting the film]. I went to go do an E! interview, 
, and it ended up being Kendra from "The Girls Next Door." I walked up to her · and saw her and kind of turned and screamed a little bit. 
i, :S: What was your most awkward moment in the film? -MK: The hardest thing for me to be filmed doing was waiting for my Notre : , . . . ~ ,(_!\}, ·..• Dame acceptance letter. They [the camera crew] were there the day that I got 
0
'./i1li1!!!1if~®c;::.::
::::~: =d iliey were crying. 
· ·' ·\'!A~}{}/! :M,K: Feve. I've just heard thatThe Backer is for R.A.s and people that don't drink :.4!}z::-f:V::'..~ntil they're 21. So it's just like the people that are kind of nerdy, and I don't ''}~{,i4iilkthey can handle Feve. [laughs]l''definitely broke my stereotype because 
itXPfllstill making fun of people. 
;Mt--. · 
;:{;,;~:Best place on campus? · J/}MK:, The grotto. It's always so peaceful; you can get away from anything.You 
i1:trwl~{g'.(:te~d.•to. 
,·, 
$;" ·}fi;;;S,: Something you have to do before you graduate? i¥J; \'.}M'!(: !want to get onto the roof of my dorm [Pasquerilla West]. I know that f/;ih'ey sometimes leave the door to the roof unlocked there, and I'm determined j{,ft~e~ther learn how to pick a lock or find a way to get up there. 
f'" 
;{;}s': What was the strangest thing about being in this movie? 
r.;?~lf:The first time I saw the movie was the most jarring experience. I think what ;JU;nadeit so natural is that we had no idea what was going to happen with it when she ~!;!::';[Director Nanette Burstein] was taping it. Ifyou're watching it, it doesn't look like :,%{;a:cl,o,cu}i:ientary. It was weird hearing my voice. I often stand with my mouth open 
')~/~µother thing I realized. 
:·!!;-t,'L·r"J-:'/
v:i r~~~ ·.-.' . 
t$,i':'How long were the cameras rolling? '.)\(]ffIf:: Overall it was 10 months, and then it depended. They followed us usually i'i(fiye to six times a week, and it c.ould· be six to eight hours a day.
_,,?1/•>-;:.:.,:::-(·:.· : . 
',:,:;::)'.:/,$: 'Wikipedia says you were the "villain" ofthe film. Thoughts? 
ffd,'}: \ ll-1K: I think every good story has to have an antagonist, and I kind of fell into //;:(,:'t4~ rple. I think I'm accurately portrayed in the film. I was kind of a mean girl {}[')11·high ~chool. I think that people forgot that it was a documentary and that we 1/;'h>)::\Yeren't characters. It was kind of harsh at first. People would ask, "How could 
\;\})you do 'that?" There were three years between the film and [its]release to mature 
'\:',in'c! .come to terms with things though. She [Burstein] had about 1,200 hours ! ··-;;:~{fooi:age, so she could have painted me like an angel _or a villain'. I ~hink it's a I igi,od portrayal, but it's all incredibly c_ondensed. . · '. '·, I 
I 
(
M,gl}
'·\, \ \ d' 
\ 
, .. 
\. 
":~ 



