Che Notre Same Scholastic AdiJeptisemenCs
• V
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices Satisfaction Guaranteed
DR. J. BURKE & CO.,
Oftombtusts and Manufactubinc Opticians
WotiCBS We dCBlieatg ■n> jam* Hsm slew ftn	m	« •	/s
natter who fitted them. Brins the piacaeT 23O S. Michigan St
«	. - — » -	■ ■ - ... - ---- - -f
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE
JIMMIE & GOATS
“WHERE THE CARS LEAVE"
« - - ■---- ■ — — ■ - ■ ■■ ■ .. ■ .. .»
The Ellsworth Store
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
..... — k
N. V. P. TRUNKS
Made by the makers of "Indestrncto" and selling at a moder. - ate price. Luggage section—and floor
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
J. J. KREUZBERGER
t
•	MERCHANT TAILOR >
■	■	1	,
.	'	.	1 ■
216 W.. Jefferson Blvd	Arnold Bpilding
<	——— — ■■■ ■ -.-—4
. <
1 , 1 '
National Grocer Company
WHOLESALE GROCERS '
402-8 South St. Joseph Street. South Bend. Indiana "LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"
■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ - n—-— - —	- n —4
Frank Mayr & Sons JEWELERS , 113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
ib-n ■	■ -	■■	■ — ■■ -	- m
Pure Drugs. Careful Compounding. Prompt Service -	•	*	t ‘
'	- Always at
The Eliel Pharmacy
23d W. Washington Ave. - Emil Reyer. Ph. G., Mgr. • , . n- - - •- ■	- —A.-- „	.

the Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
WEATHER’S getting “goose-fleshy”—thrills and chills begin to two-step up and down your spine. The right way in underwear is Stephenson, Vassar or Cooper. They’re warm without weighing upon you.
They are free from the mosauito sting!- Not a bit scratchy—couldn’t irritate the most snappish pessimist. Just soft and downy—cosy and comfortable all over.
Your size, of course, is here.
ADLER BROTHERS
Notre Dame Athletic Store
Hany Poulin, Manager “ON THE CAMPUS”
the Noire &ame Scholastic AdCepCisemenCs
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone Bell 52	- .
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	.	. '
and Washington Ave.	South Bena, Ind.
Mike’s Restaurant	j
and Lunch Room	I
‘ "	H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.	I
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend Home Phone 6183 I ..---Hi
«■ ■ ■ ■ - ■ ■
'	/ Home Phone, 5789	Res Beil 1162
omc8 1 Bell Phone, 689
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST
611-612 T. M. S. Bldg.	’
Cor. Main St. and Wash*Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
———....- ’ — - -.—————
4
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965
Omat: . PHONES Rbsidkncb: Bell 886. * Home, 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. 511. Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building _	South Bend, Ind.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
“ WALK-OVERS
THE STUDENT’S SHOE WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St.
Bell Phone 581	Will call at University .
Home Phone 2451	by cffanlmnl
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, 222 S. Taylor Street. South Bend, Ind.
« »■■■■■ ——■ ■ ■ ■ ■ - - -
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.	'
L. P. HARDY CO.
417-423 S. St. Joseph St. « South Bend, Indiana
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY - .
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg. '	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
PaasoBable Prices. Special attaattow
oiqrcles
AndersonBrothers ABultinck ?
109 West Colfax Avenue	. South Bend. Indiana
*
Baker’s Shoes
. .... -* FOR MEN WHO CARE”
EXCLUSIVE IN STYLE PERFECT Di PIT
xia W. Washington, Ave. South Bend,. Indiana
THELIGHTOFTHE VISION '
I	By CHRISTIAN REID
J /	362 pp.—Priee$l 25	/
I THE AVE MARIA " - NOTRE DAMffi, IND.
1




n1
1
DISCE-QVAS1-SEMPER-VICTURUS-VlVE- QUASlOiASMORITVRVS
Vol. LIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November i, 1919.
No. 6.
Return.
BY E. R. MCBRIDE, ’l6.
(7s memory of Gerald Clements, 'is, who died in the service of his country.) ALONE I trudged the old familiar way That claimed us in glad days, still unforgot; Seeking the dream-keyed gate to yesterday
’ That opens not. .
I glimpsed the ancient aureole, of gold
Across the October fields; oh, vision fair! • - . 1
I turned, to speak its praises as of old;—
You were not there.	,
I saw our loved spring leaves, all sere and brown;
I thought of you, my lonely heart beat low;
I prayed our tender Mother, smiling down, To tell you sol -
The Mystic Element in Catholic Poetry.
BY BROTHER EDMUND, C. S. C, ’19..
HERE is in modern poetry a growing tendency towards mysticism, which tendency is especially noticeable in the'
work of our Catholic poets. The mystic element in song has, it is true, always existed, but - has not always been fully appreciated. At the present time, however, writers have come to discern the exalted spirituality and beauty of Catholic thought that comes only to one who is, in sympathy with the Faith.	'
~	. The term “Catholic” as used in this, essay
applies to poetry ratlier than to poets. Artists of poetic expression do not necessarily strike any . strong Catholic note in their verses. .The ; beautiful lyrics of Thomas Moore, for example, are patriotic rather than religious, though of
* course, they are by ho means un-Catholic in tone.
On the other hand, the products of Miss Letts’
gifted pen are decidedly Catholic, and many of It isthis high spirituality, this aspiration towards her ppems mystically so, tfibugh the author is a God that gives to this simple canticle its sublim- < ■ Protestant and the daughter of a minister. We ity. Other songs of Scripture, especiallythe' ■ ......'' ” •
must not then always judge of a work by its author. We must say that only that poetryzis truly Catholic which is in full harmony with the teachings of the Church. .
It would, perhaps, be unwise to attempt any -exact definition of mysticism. Mystical poetry is like electricity. Of both we have a practical knowledge, but what the real essence of each is we do not precisely know.. Mysticism is, however, no real synonymn for mystification. In a general way mystic poetry may be defined as < . that which appeals to the higher spiritual emotion of the soul and tends to raise the heart directly towards God. Such poetry, then, exeludes all that appeals to the senses merely, to the common emotions of pity or anger, to human love or even to that still nobler passion, patriotism. Verse that appeals directly or indirectly to those or like passions and emotions, while it may have much spiritual value, is not mystical. All mystical poetry is spiritual/but not all spiritual . poetry is mystical. The latter aims at something much higher, and by it very nature helps to -draw the soul upward beyond the earth and things earthly to God and the things of God.
Alice Meynell, one of the greatest mystic poets of our day, embodies this definition in the following lines taken from “I am the Way”:
Thou art the-Way;	.
. HadstThou been nothing but the goal, I cannot say	• ■ '	'
, That' Thou hadst ever met my soul. .
Here there'is noticable a direct communication of the soul with its. God. Being at last in the secure possession of its end, the soul, as it were, _ looks back afraid of what might have been.
The definition is, perhaps, better illustrated by the opening verse. of the Magnificat of the. Blessed Virgin:
. My soul doth magnify the Lord, . ■ '	; .
And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. . -

5 k
9
82
Canticle of Canticles, are much richer in Eastern imagery, but none surpasses the sublime appeal of this one. Indeed, were it not for the intense mystic element in Hebrew versification, despite the abundance of its wealth in figure, and its imposing solemnity of style, half the grandeur with which it is endowed would be lacking.
As Catholic atmosphere is of course the most favorable to mysticism, it is not surprising to find that the great bulk of Spanish poetry is devotional. Fray Luis de Leon, an Augustinian monk, excelled in this kind of writing and founded the classic school of Spanish poetry. His poems possess a beauty ethereal and inspiring. His predecessor, Juan de Mean, is the author of “ El Laberinto,” an allegory of human life. One of the most illustrious figures of her time, St. Teresa, is less known to us as a poet than as a mystic prose writer. Yet that she could also write wondrously beautiful verses is testified by at least thirty-six poems authenticated as having come from her pen. Of these, one of the most sublime is the “Canticle of St. Teresa After Communion.” Father Caswell has given us an English translation of this famous canticle or “ Glossa.” The Spaniards so call it because it
is an explanation or gloss of the opening verses, Here is revealed the beauty of a soul filled with
known as the Text. One of the finest stanzas of the song is the twelfth:
Ah, Lord! my light and living breath! • Take me, oh take me from this death! And burst the bars that sever me
'	From my true life above;
Think how I die Thy face to see, And. cannot live away from Thee, \ O my eternal Love! .
And ever, ever weep and sigh, Dying because I do not die." • '
“A Carmelite Nun, ” writing of St. Teresa’s gift, says: “She sings through her tears. But above all things she sings of the incomprehensible goodness and tenderness ofthe King, the Master, the Friend, ofher Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.”
plicity and spiritual charm.	.	- •
One can get an idea of the French leaning towards mysticism from the very titles of many French poems. Saint-Beuve, for instance, likes How like Mary’s spirit is that of St. Teresa to write on such subjects as: “La Vie,” “La
we can gather from the following extract of the Gloire,” “Un Ami.” "Some of Boileau’s lyrics .
to live, how can I exist separated from Him who is my life ? On one side He gives me life; on the other, .He deprives, me of it, because there is no life without love; how then can I exist without the life, which is He whom I love alone? In this sweet violence I languish.” Now we can understand Teresa’s “Dying because I do not die.”
Spain has produced at least two religious epics of note which at times are highly devotional— “La Cristiada, ” a poem on the Passion, written by Fray Diege de Hojeda, and-“ El Mmonser-rate, ” a work on the Crusades, by Cristobal de Virtues.	1
.France too is a spiritual garden from which we may gather the lilies of mystic poetry. Looking through the verses of one of her humbler writers, .another Teresa, she of Lisieux, better known as _
the “Little Flower,” we find the lines:
Vivre d’amour, ce n’est pas sur la terre Fixer sa tente au sommet du Thabor; Avec Jesus, c’est gravir le Calvaire, . C’est regarder la croix comme un tresor!
Au ceil, je dois vivre de jouissance -Alors 1’epreuve aura fui sans retour: Mais, ici bas, je veux dans la souffrance .	1
-	Vivre d’amour.
the love of Christ. To love Him she does not wish to share in the glory of Tabor, but all her desire is rather to share in the ignominy of the Cross of. Calvaiy. To live by love is to “look upon the Cross as a treasure,” and to find her happiness there with Christ, her Spouse.
Sister Teresa has written too few poems to be acclaimed a.greatpoet, but what she has written * is written-well.' Neither in .the writings of Corneille and Racine, bothsaintlymen, can we find anything that surpasses her verses in sim-
revealed life of the Blessed Virgin Mary,/‘The are^ “A son Esprit,” “Rien n’est Beau que le -Mystical City of God.” The angel Gabriel has Vfai,” “L’Utilit^ 4es Ennrfnis.”One guesses . announced to her that the end of her erile is at readily that Boileau was at once a poet and a
hand, and Mary, unableto contain thesprings of philosopher.	.
* love and joy welling in her heart, gives vent to St. Francis of Assisi may rightfully be'called -them in 'the words: “ My. sweet Love; my only -the “Father of ltalian Poetry,” as it was he who : Good, Treasure of mysoul, draw me to Thee by composed the first great poem in the Italian
. the odor of Thy perfumes; burst these mortal vernacular.His “Suh Song” in,its heavenly ■ bonds which still detain me. I cannot live in inspiration is comparable to the Cantide of the /.
. myself, but in God alone; if then He wishes me f. Children: in the Fieiy Furnace. Francis wasa

.S'
Nocre ^omeSchokwcic
great lover of Nature, because- everything in Nature tended to raise his soul towards the great Creator. He sings:	.
Praised be Thou, my Lord, with all Thy Creatures, " Especially the honored Brother Sun,	-
' Who .makes the day. and illumines us through Thee, And he is beautiful and radiant with great splendor Bears the signification of Thee, most High One.
The saint praises the sun because it represents Him who is the Sun of Justice; the moon and stars, because God formed them in the heavens “dear and precious and beautiful;” the weather ■ . by which He gives sustenance to'creatures; the water, because it is “very useful and precious and chaste.” Thus does he laud alb God’s natural gifts, not on their own account, but because all the good found in them are from the Creator.
Dante, a. son of St. Francis, has written the greatest mystic poem in all literature. His Divine Comedy is unsurpassed even by Milton’s Paradise Lost, and is likely to remain for all time. . . the paragon of mystic art. Unlike Milton, Dante has given us a work thoroughly Catholic in spirit and expression. The revulsion of feding that one " experiences at several places in the perusal of Milton’s great epic is nowhere fdt in the reading of Dante’s masterpiece.	•
- One of the few spiritual epics of modem times that can approach the mystic beauty of The Comedy is Cardinal Newman’s Dreamof Geron-.. Hus. . If ever Lazarus would have spoken of his experiences in the other world, we should expect him to speak in the terms of the central figure of the poem of the great churchman. But we doubt that Lazarus would be indined to speak at all, for the one glimpse of the Divinity given Gerontius at God’s judgment seat would be more than suffident to seal his lips. Though he ; were gifted with the tongues of angels he would
from God. Ungratefully she rejects his grace . and vainly endeavors.to find peace in the world and its pleasures. But even the best things of earth are earthly, and though they may satisify ' for the moment they leave the heart more empty, . and often as not are followed by misery and remorse. —
Thompson gave a new impetus to mystic poetry, and a galaxy of luminaries, less bright,., however, followed in his path. The brightest of these is, no doubt, the late Joyce Kilmer. His . poems are known all over the .English-speaking .world and all lovers of the beautiful are loud in his praise. The chief charm of his verses lies in their fasdnating simplidty of style and in their deep spiritual appeal. Kilmer has a rather remarkable way of dosing some of his poems. He seems to begin and continue his compositions in a prosaic manner, but by a sudden turn of the thought in the last few lines throws a resplendent radiance on the preceding verses; much in the same way that the setting sun reflects his beauty in the eastern heavens. Examples of such writing are “Main Street,” “The Big Top,” “The Proud Poet, ” and his “ Hymn of Thanksgiving.” Among his best poems are “Roses” and “The -Thom.” The following lines, taken from the latter are among the most beautiful Kilmer has written. '	:
David is the song upon God’s lips,.
And Our Lady is the-goblet that He sips; And Gabriel’s breath is his command,. . But Saint Michael is the sword in God’s right handr
There is much matter for meditation is these few words, but the chief lesson the poet wishes to convey to us is that God executes His will v usually through human or angdic instruments.
That Joyce Kilmer was a true soldier and the friend of soldiers is proved by the dedication of
some of his best verses to other poets, who like
not be able to find suitable words to picture the _	_______ ______________ ______ ________
; awfulness of God’s overpowering majesty. New-* him died on the altar of Liberty." Among these man, himself, very cleverly suggests, rather than none shared more intimately in his talent of . expresses, the thought of the vision and drama- spiritual song than Joseph Mary Plunkett, the.
_. tically closes in a climax powerful, if hot grand. Irish martyr of 1916. Plunkett’s poem beginning, • Francis Thompson’s gift was greater than . . \ see blood on -very fose ’
: Newman’s, though in the wide expanse of . , .	,.	.	.
1	.x r	r-	, e____ j is heart-touching in its tender piety, but more ’
thought, of power, of imagery and of grandeur ■ .	? .	„-	. - ■
-x x £ n t. 1 xt x *	* t t.- mystic in meaning is The Stars Sang in God s ...
it seems to fall, below that of Dante. In his	. -x « x • x
TT j £ rr xt T j x -x	Garden. This poem lends itself to a variety -
Hound of Heaven the London poet writes: -	.	- • . . , ’	• -	, <	.
.	.	.	'	. .	of interpretations, but however it may be under- .
- *• I fled Him, downthe nights and down the days, .	'	,	•• ...	,	.
- i	v,-	,	.	. ..	’ stood, it remains dazzling in its splendor-
IfledHim, down thearches of they ears;	aww,	.
■ -I fled? Him; down'the labyrinthine'ways	’ Almost prophetic .of his own- death is the -
• < Of my o^n mind; arid in the midst of tears last stanza:	.	.	- <	. . ; ,
; / I hid from Him; and under running laughter.	‘
Here Thompson describes the flight of a soul
For many live;that one may die -	_
And one must die .that many live-5 --
§4
fcfie Nocre Some Scholastic
The stars are silent in the sky Lest my poor song be fugitive.
Varsity Verse.
Of another Irish writer Joyce Kilmer said, ‘ I consider Ethna Carbery one of the few great poets of the last hundred years.” The author of “Mea Culpa,”-“My Prayer,” “The Wayfarer,” “The Other,” and similar lyrics'well deserve the eulogy. “My Prayer,” from which we take the following lines, is perhaps the greatest , of these.
Set your love before me as a light!
A candle tall; so shall I, weak, prevail
O’er Darkness; pass beyond all venomed things
Into the endless Dawn, gold-starred, rose-pale, And murmurous with whirring silver wings— Set your love before me as a light.
Ethna Carbery’s verses are nearly all tinged with a sweet sadness, which through long centuries of oppression has engrafted itself on the Irish mind.	,
The deaths of Joyce Kilmer, Ethna Carbery and Joseph Mary Plunkett meant a great loss to poetry, but the example of their lives spent in the service of God and country remains, an ennobling inspiration to those who follow the light which led these to the heights of mystic art.
What is the status of this poetry, ancient yet ever new? It is, there can be no doubt, the purest and best in literature. But because the appreciation of it requires a strong spiritual ' sense and a fine perception of the beautiful, it will never possess any great popularity with the masses. Yet it must ever live, for to poets themselves and to true lovers of poetry it cannot, but always make an irresistable appeal. It will keep the standard of their poetry high so long as \ the art of poetry endures and for that lengthof. time will its value be immeasurable.
Thoughts.
Pity the poor profiteer!
Never let the ‘‘knocker” in.
Seek trouble and it will find you. :
Keep to the right!—there are traffic officers on the road to success.
The chains of habit are not noticeable until we try to break them.
How many of us are forever blowing—not even bubbles,' but just blowing.
Humility and sincerity in presidential candidates —then, the-millennium.
Contentment.
When in the twilight hours I hear the voice of song, My soul forgets its journey , O'er pathways steep and long;
And from the world , of worries
To a land that knows no wrong, My soul speeds in the evening
When ! hear the voice of song.—d. j. p.
. Ah Knows Yo’, Aunty!
Dey’s de cutes’ little fellah—.
Loahd! He’s white as yo’ is, chile—_ But ah’s cae’d foah him—he loves me—
An’ ah loves him, too, a pile.
An’ when ah tries t’ sca’e him Frum behin’ mah kitchen doah He jes’ says, “Ah knows yo’, Aunty Whut yo’ tryin’ t’ sca’e me foah?”
But de Bible says, in. Heaven
We’ll jes’ all be white as snow;
An’ it kin’ o’ gets me worried—
How’s dat chilea-goin’ to know Wheah he’s goin’ t’ fin’ his Aunty
If she’s white as she can be?
Loahd! Make me black in Heaven So he’ll know foah shuah it’s me.
When ah’s daid an’ long foahgotten Ah’ll be waitin’ foah him deah
Though Ah may be black as coal-dus’
Ah’ll newah'give a ca’e: When he comes, dat little angel, Ah’ll be waitin’ bin’ de doah An he’ll say, “Ah knows yo’, Aunty—
Whut yo’ tryin’t’ sca’e meToah? ”—r. e. o’h.
The Man in the Moon.
The Man-in-the-Moon is the best-natured man, / Just look at his three fat chins;
And his great round face with its funny mouth That always is wreathed in grins.
And oh, how I love when the night is bright To sit on daddy’s knee,. .
And to make a face at the Man-in-the-Moon So hell make one back at me.
And after I’m tucked in my little blue bed Arid daddy hums a lullaby turie, ’Fore I skip, past the'stars to Dreamland
I smile at the Man-in-the-Moon—l. l. w.
' Charms. -
We met for just a moment, Ye gods, but she was fair!
I cannot but remember, She had such glorious hair.
. Hermanneritwassimple, And yet there was a grace ^
Thatmadehermorethanqueenly, Andbesides, sice hadaface.—j. G.F. .
Mi
'S'Sj;


£



'Sfie Noune- dame Schokwcfc	. 85
Cardinal Mercier, World-Hero. ,
'	'	BY THOMAS H. BEACOM, *20.
When the beautiful Cathedral of Rheims was destroyed early in the war by Boche gunners, it was regarded a miracle that the wonderful equestrian statue of Jeanne D’Arc which stood just in front of the ruins had remained unharmed. Throughout the war the Maid of Orleans, symbol of the triumph of righteousness, stood guard over the sorely-tried faith and hope of the Belgian people. As a writer, who viewed the scene, remarked, “ That scene is somehow coupled in fancy with the princely figure of Cardinal Mercier, Primate of Belgium, erect, victorious after years of peril, with forward-looking eyes serene and hopeful, though around, him, as around Joan at the door of the Cathedral, lie the ruins of the beauty that he loved.”
No greater spiritual figure lives , in the world today, no man is there who, by sheer force of personality, holds in thralldom the hearts of so many millions of people as the eminent prelate, the Cardinal Archbishop of Malines. Hailed by the large cities of America as the great conqueror of the war and by all mankind as the shepherd and savior of a nation, Cardinal Mercier is eminently worthy of any tributes that . may be paid him. Lips falter and pens are - impotent when they seek to express the admiration and love which our hearts hold for him.
Ever since his first memorable allocution, “Patriotism and Endurance,” delivered on Christmas Day, 1914, Cardinal Mercier has typified to the world the unconquerable spirit - of right and justice which fought in desperation .	' against the hordes of German might. Ever
memorable in history will be the 21st day of ■ July, 1916, for then within the sacred confines of St. Gudule’s Church his inspired voice carried - to the wearied souls of his parishioners, tlie words - of encouragement and hope which marked the . Belgians as the invincible guardians of liberty . Aged though he was, and worn with the responsibilities of his office, he never for a moment hesitated in the performance of his duty but spoke at airtimes with the passionate earnestness ' and fervor which won for him the unswerving . fealty of his countrymen and the fear and respect of the invading Teutons. Not for an instant was . he deaf to the appeal of righteousness; and although at times it meant , humiliation, hardships, and indignities, he stood forever firm in
: - . - . - । . ' ' • - . .
his adherence to the cause of honor and justice. How easy it would, have been, how human indeed, it might have seemed for the great dignitary of the Church to compromise with the victorious Huhs and gain for himself thereby the ease and freedom to which his years and calling would have entitled him. But Cardinal Mercier never wavered. His fight against the Germans was open, his attitude defiant, and his aggressiveness caused all. the world to wonder. The Protestant Bishop Fallows correctly gauged his power when he said, “His arm has never lifted " a sword—has carried nothing heavier than a book or a crozier, in fact—yet it wields more power over countrymen and foe alike than any other in Belgium.”
Cardinal Desire Mercier was not only a crusader, not merely a champion of the right; he was more than that—the personification of idealism, the figure of spirituality who “separated the higher nature from the dross” and made us, three thousand miles across the sea, realize “the austere beauty” of our duty to our fellowmen who were allied in the struggle against militarism. He was first of all a saintly religious, a philosopher and an educator, and last of all a conqueror, and yet he was in his spiritual battles against wavering hearts as truly a conqueror as any general in the field.
It is hardly necessary to ask the purpose of his visit to America. He needs no purpose; it is enough that be comes, as. Archbishop Hayes truly said, “beloved by all creeds-—byProtes-tants, by Jews, by all.” “We owe him,” in the words of Rt. Rev. C. S. Burch of the Episcopal . Church, “ a debt of gratitude which we can never hope, to repay.” Neverthless there is a characteristic revelation of the great, priest’s simplicity, warm-hearted gratitude, and sincerity in these words-uttered by him upon hisarrival in New York, “I want to see your peapl^. I want to see the people of America because ;I love them. You are a people whose diplomacy is that of the open heart and fearless mind, and it is the greatest privilege of my life to meet you in your own homes.” Great universities, non-sectarian and denominational, have vied with one another to do honor to Cardinal Mercier. That in itself speaks volumes for the esteem in which he is held by all classes and all creeds in America. He is indeed an international idol, loved by all mankind for his incomparable Christian altruism;
- his heroic fidelity to righteousness, his sublime courage, and his never-failing humility.
86
'Sfie Notre domeSdibkwtic
On the “Directissimo.”
BY LAURENS C. COOK, *21.
The “Directissimo” express from Rome to Trieste was with much creaking carrying its polygot load of war-weary passengers through an Italian night. The train was riotously crowded. In the aisles testy Italian officers rested shoulders with those of their allies, French, Jugo-Slovaks, Poles, in a vain attempt to get a little rest. An Italian Major lay stretched full length on the narrow floor, usurping the little extra space by virtue of his rank, which could not, however, prevent the restless from walking over him. In one first class compartment two American privates slept blissfully, while a third waited expectantly, staring straight ahead. . They were returning from “leave.” After eleven days of seeing Italy from the windows of “Vino” shops, and having
dutifully dispatched post-cards of every statue with the remark, “Sorry I couldn’t send you a front view,” the three were returning to their command, rather dazed in their conceptions, and very glad to be getting back to “the outfit.”
Ken was homesick, pathetically homesick. He did not know exactly what he could do about it; a sense of oppression made him feel that nothing could be done.’ The utter futility of trying left „ him hopeless. A tear came to his eye. As he winked it out Vision came into line with the Girl, asleep opposite.	-	'	-
• She was beautiful, in that wild,, exotic way of the younger peasant, but her appeal was purely physical, as indeed, she, herself was intensely physical. Ken settled himself and watched her face as she slept—gently, the untroubled sleep of childhood. They are always children, these peasants.
With a start Ken aroused himself and realized that unconsciously he had substituted for this peasant child his own dear Ruth and had
“ Don’t you think- they could make a man of _ him? ” The jailor shifted his. tobacco to the other side, of his mouthyputhis hands behind He thought of that last evening when she had his back, and tossed the keys up and down.
cried against his.shoulder: “Ken, dear, I am “Well,” he answered in a not unkind voice,
attributed Ruth’s self in his dream. The game fascinated. He was. very, very homesick.
heart-broken but proud—oh, so proud of you, looking straight ahead at the platform across boy!” And how in her agitation she had . the court,-' -I guess they ain’t a-goin’ to try-twisted loose one of his over-coat buttons and to make a man o’ him.”	:	.
both had laughed awkwardly as he predicted court-martial f or himself . Lbst in memory, Ken unconsciously voiced his thoughts jdoud, pleading with Ruth. ' <	'
“ Dear little girl, I love you—will always love you and will always be true. It is not for mortals always to know the thoughts of men, but God -does know and he will tell you, Angel, that I am sincere. A cool forest after a spring rain, the trees lifting their leafed boughs in thanksgiving— dusk along a deserted country road in the harvest-moon-time—girl of my heart you are all the beauty and truth of these to me. Girl, . I love you.”	.
Unconsciously Ken moved forward as he continued, “ You are all in all the world to me— an intrinsic part—that of which the Egyptians knew and understood, and we—have lost. Life without you would not be life; the wee bees humming in the glad May-time speak of my love. When the flowers wither, they die of sadness. Dear girl, won’t you, can’t you understand—?”	,
The “Vision” spoke, garlic flavor, “Dam—a yes I onderstand. I leeva in Philadelph-two
years. I speeka Eenglish. You crazee. You seek. O. U. Keedo. Gooda bye, Beel.”
The “Directissimo” express from Rome to Trieste was with much creaking carrying its polygot load of war-weary passengers through, an Italian night.	.	-
“Half a Chanct.”
BY ARTHUR B. HOPE, ’ 20
“If he only had half a chanct,” sobbed the little woman in black. The tall jailor^jingled his big keys and looked back through the dark passage way. .	'
“He was a good little fellow when his Pa' -died,” she continued brokenly, putting'her head into her hand. She sniffled as she looked into the corridor. The jailor, ill at ease scraped his feet, as £he little woman looked up. into his blank face. ’
; Far back m the dark passage way some one was walking. - Then there sounded very clearly ~ the cfidro^4o&£^ the bang of a cage door. /
“No, I ^ess they ^	as she '


'-3
^fM&NomdameSdiciasric	87
wiped her eyes with her handkerchief. .“It don’t look like it anyhow.”
The jailor glanced at her from the corner of his eye. He hated to see women cry; and why should• any woman cry over “-Blackbead” Hennessy—“as if the scoundrel didn’t deserve hanging- and worse than that, maybe,” he thought to himself.
The little woman shivered as the steps of scraping feet came closer. She put her hand over her eyes and looked into the corridor. She could see them now—two guards, and behind them a prisoner, whose face lighted up every time they passed a gas jet. She could see his shirt open at the neck, and his red hair, too, she thought—just like his father’s. Behind him marched two more guards.
“This is them, I guess,” she said, looking up at the jailor’s face and back into the corridor. again; “yes, that’s them.” And she began to sob, tired little sobs.	-
“ I guess you hadn’t better wait,” the guard said to her. .	*
She stopped crying and looked up startled. “Oh, yes, I better—I want to see him onct more anyhow. I hain’t said good-bye yet,” she protested as the guard took her- two hands in his and started with her toward a near-by door. “Please,” she pleaded, “let me see him onct more!”	-
The guard dropped her hands; his mouth twitched nervously, and . his eyes lost their calmness. The woman became quiet, and peered down the corridor again. Here they were now, close upon her. She tucked her wet handkerchief under her belt, and tried to smile. “Hello, Jimmy,” she said, as bravely as she could as the two guards and their prisoner came from the corridor.	.
quick breath of the little mother could be heard. “Jimmy,” anxiously-asked the mother, as she leaned back and looked up into his face, “ did you go to confession?”	'
“Yes, it’s all fixed up, Ma. I received, too.”
There was another pause. The jailor motioned to the guards. “You better say goodbye, now,” he said, turning to the sobbing mother and son. .	-
“Yes,” said the mother, crying softly, and her thin arms went around Jimmy’s shoulders in a last embrace. Jimmy picked her up in his arms and kissed her again and again.
“Oh, Ma, don’t cry. I can’t bear to see you cry. You hadn’t ought to feel bad, anyways; I don’t amount to nothin’"—and he broke into sobs again.
“Better come, now,” said the jailor, with tears running down his own cheeks. .
“Oh, no,” the little woman shriekecT: “I can’t let you go, Jimmy?” ..	*
“Ma,” said the son sternly, brushing the tears from his face with his big hairy hand, “I got to go!” He stooped over to kiss her for the last time. The mother’s face was very white and she clung to his arm almost- in a faint. The jailor put-his arm about her waist lest she should fall, and motioned again to the guards. The mother loosened her grip, and watched a minute, as, surrounded by the guards, her boy walked briskly to the platform.
Leading the woman into a room directly off the court yard, the jailor brought her to a straight-back chair, and then closed the door. It Was very quiet. The sun was just beginning to shine into the prison, and the little room was brightened as if in mockery by the morning Jight streaming in through the high, grated window.	.
The face of the-red-haired boy showed an Then was heard some one going up the steps expression of mingled pain and gladness at the of the scaffold. “Is that him?”, the mother sight of his mother. He threw out both arms asked anxiously of the jailor who was nervously and clasped her tightly to him. “Oh, Ma,” pacing the room.	' - _	'
he said, “it’s pretty near all ov<r.” She hung to his. big strong neck, buried her face in his shoulder, and sobbed. “Oh, Jimmy, if they * - would only give you-half a chanct, you’d be a man, wouldn’t .’you, Jimmy?” One bf' the - - guards sniffled, and the jailor cleared his throat. > A weazened man in black; carrying a surgeon’s
. case, came out of; the corridor. ' ‘
'	~ “ Yes,? Ma,” answered the boy: “I’d try
. anyway.” -	\.	- .
There was a brief -pause, in which only the
“No, I guess not,” he tried to reassure her.
She listened again, and heard some one praying. . She could hear Jimmy say, “Amen”,, once very clearly. Then there was- a thud. The jailor came overand put his arms around -the trembling^ woman. ;	t
“Lady,” he said, in broken voice, “I guess " it’s done now.” ■_	..
- “Yes. I heard it,” she answered, as she pressed her knuckles against her cheek and looked wistfully at the floor, her face distorted
88
Nocre dame Sdidasdc
I
in her agony of grief, her eyes red and swollen from weeping.
“I am sorry for ye, lady,” said the man, in his clumsy efforts to console her; “but I can’t see how anybody can feel bad for Blackhead Hennessy. He certainly got what was com—.” He stopped short as the little woman looked at him sharply. Then her face relaxed, and the tears flowed as her head dropped on her breast.	\	•
“Yes, maybe. I suppose he got what he deserved. But,” she cried softly, “he ain’t never had half a chanct.” The jailor looked sheepishly aside and put his hands into his pockets. “ I guess,” added the bereaved mother, “he’ll have a chanct now, though.”
Perseverance.* '
BY T. E. BURKE, C. S. C.
Lord, I have tried to walk the narrow way
That leads up Calvary’s hill to Thy abode;
Oft have my wandering footsteps gone astray.
Oft has my heart grown faint along the road;
Still have I struggled through the dismal night, .Hoping the dawn might find me at Thy side;
Though my poor soul is scarlet in Thy sight, Lord, I have tried.
Lord, I have trod where thorns and briars grew;
Along each stony road my feet have bled; ' And when the wasting winds of passion blew
I sought to follow where Thy footsteps led.
What though I still am plodding in the gloam,
Far from the mountain peak where saints abide. Take Thou my hand; for, though I’m far from home,
Lord, I have tried.
♦ ♦♦
Constantia.
Arctae semitae iter carpere sum, Deus, Nisus, Calvarium quo petitur iugum; Erravi pedibus tramite saepius, Saepe et cor mihi corruit.
Noctis per tenebras nisus ego tamen, Sperans mane novo me prope Te fore; Tot quamvis maculae pectora purpurent, Nitebar tamen, O Deus!
Spinis et vepribus, mi Deus, intuli Callis per lapides sanguineum pedem; Strident dumque malae fiabra cupidinis, Insisto pedibus Tuis.	*
Quamquam progredior per tenebras adhuc, . Sanctorum procul a culmine fulgido. Me Tu prende manu!—sic procul a domo Nitebar tamen, O Deus!
Campion College, Oct. 12, 1919. A. F. Geyser, S. J.
* We take pleasure in reprinting from The Aee Maria of October 11, Father Burke’s poem, together with an interesting translation of it by Father Geyser, S. J.—Editor's Note.
The Passing of Joyce Kilmer.
, The anticipated visit of Mrs. Joyce Kilmer to Notre Dame vividly recalls to mind the sad fact that her husband’s voice will never again be heard in the halls of Notre Dame. We knew of the brave death of that soldier-poet but during those fatal days of 1918 when death was so common we accepted his passing somewhat as a matter of course. But now we are almost overcome by the ever-growing realization that his laughing heart is forever stilled. Our sympathy goes out to Mrs. Kilmer but mingled with our sorrow is another sentiment, which the Apostle of Belgium has so tenderly expressed: “Suffer us to offer not only our condolence but our congratulation. For if I am asked what I think of the eternal salvation of a brave man who has consciously given his life in the defence of his country’s honor, and in vindication of violated justice, I shall not hesitate to reply that without any doubt whatsoever Christ crowns his military valour, and that death, accepted in this Christian spirit, assures the safety of that man’s soul.”
Joyce Kilmer possessed that “rare combina-'tion, so alien to most of us, of romance and common sense,” and he never forgot that no matter how unpleasant life may be it is much too good for us. “Thank God for God,” he religiously exclaimed, and then joyously undertook the tasks thht Life had assigned to him. But we who knew him only through the medium of his poetry realize how applicable to himself, are the concluding lines of “ Rouge Bouquet,”.
Comrads true, bora anew, peace to you. Your souls shall be where the hero’s are And youi memory shine like the morning star.
— Kilmer has been described as “a very keen, a glittering young sword,” a man in whom one sensed a spirit of finely tempered steel, and that spirit is reflected in his poems. He never dabbled in the mire of sensuality nor ever forgot to be a man first and a poet afterwards. Joyce Kilmer was essentially a man. When duty called he answered gladly and made the supreme sacrifice. “Greater love than this hath.no man,” said our Saviour, “that he should lay down.his life for his friends.” And now in France there is “in that rich earth a richer dust concealed,” the dust of a soldier “newly strong in God’s white company,” the dust of an unconquerable spirit whose immortal songs shall never die.
. Paul Scofield, ’20,
Nocre dame Scholastic
89
©Or-.ryr?i j ig~x-k .-x-. 
X I/^~r
||otpe]|aTn^
DISCE-QUASI-SEAWER-VICTVRUS -VIVE- QUASI- CRAS MORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL.'LIII.	NOVEMBER i. 1919-	NO. 6.
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington, ’20
William C. Havey, ’20 ' Robert E. O’Hara, ’20
Charles A. Grimes, *20
Cornelius Palmer, ’20
Thomas H. Beacom, ’20
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21
Arthur B. Hope, ’20
Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L- Ward, ’20
William H. Robinson, ’20
September there was initiated by Athletic Director Rockne a campaign to sell in South Bend season tickets to the football games at Notre Dame. Not
Need of a Home-Coming, a few people of the city manifested
their interest in our athletics by readily taking
the tickets. If Notre Dame could have some' unifying to the best effect student activities, of the test games of her schedule played at which heretofore have been haphazard and home, the number of South Benders who would irresponsible.^Zln this Committee there is buy season tickets would be much greater still, provided a- body in which responsibility can be
If, however, we are to have such games on Cartier Field the students of the University must co-operate in a more active way than they have done heretofore. The reason why we do not have good contests at home, as do other schools, is easily seen when one looks at the half-filled bleachers at one .of the games. It is true that we have not nearly so many students as some other schools which rank no higher in athletics, but this fact by no means accounts for our pitifully small crowds. The chief , reason is that our Alumni do not attend in numbers. Within a radius of a few hundred miles Notre Dame has an army of loyal old students; but there has never been on the part of present students a concerted effort to meet the “old boys” half way. If every man at Notre Dame would write to every alumnus he knows an urgent invitation to a particular game, every alumnus who could would come, and many of them would bring with them their, families
and friends. Let us quit bur criticism of the case and ourselves begin for. once to work for the good of the cause. Next year there will he a game here with an old rival, Purdue University^ and if every student of us will set his heart upon it-; we can have on that.occasion a crowd of ten thousand. South Bend has shown - in practical way that she is with us. It is now 1 up to us to show that we are at least aS ready as the city to help bring some of the best football
games to Notre Dame. If everyone will do his part we can have every fall on the occasion of a big football game a Notre Dame home-coming which will in a few years grow into an event second to none of its kind.—r. e. o’h. ' j
ZA good step forward was taken in student organization at Notre Dame in the President’s recent appointment of the Students’ Activities Committee. In order that
Student Activities this body may function to Committee. the best advantage it is necessary that there be from the start on the part of all students a correct understanding of its purposes. It was thought that a committee composed of three members of the faculty, the presidents of the several classes, and seven students would be capable of giving
the best expression to student opinion and of.
fixed and in which the ideas of students in regard to matters of general concern may find impulse and due expression. It is not proposed at all to take away from the students of the University the. right of initiative or to formulate a plan of conduct for the school, but merely, to make this body the means of managing in the best manner all student affairs of common interest. The members of the Committee will try to know the needs of the day and will endeavor, by announcements and the appointment of sub-committees, to give sanction, definiteness, and efficiency to all projects that deserve, promotion.. This will surely be a source of satisfaction to the many who hitherto have never known just what was to be done or by whom or on what authority. There are possibilities of greater scope and freedom in this method of student management if every student of Notre Dame will give his earnest cooperation to the first efforts of the Committee.	—T. h.b.
90	'5fie Notre ©ame Sdickwck?
i
J
Faculty Appointments.
In consequence of the remarkable growth of Notre Dame the general faculty of the University has been more definitely divided into four college faculties with a dean, appointed for a term of two years, at the head of each. Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C. S. C., Ph. D., has been assigned as Dean in the Faculty of Arts and Letters; Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C. S. C.,
Ph. D., Dean of the.Faculty of Science; Martin McCue, C. E-, M. S., Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, and -Francis J. Vurpillat, LL. B., Litt. B., Dean of the Faculty of Law.
Each of the four faculties will hold a meeting at least once a month and is to have jurisdiction and authority over the students, classes, and examinations pertaining to it. The several faculties are subdivided into departments, each
under the direction of a head professor, with associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors, assigned to the particular classes. The following professors have been appointed as heads of their departments: Rev. Dr. Carrico for English, Rev. Dr. Carey for Classics, Rev. Dr. Walsh for History; Rev. William Bolger for Economics; Rev. Bernard Hl, Modem Languages; Rev. John O’Hara, Commerce;. Dr. John M. Cooney, Journalism; Rev. Dr. Miltner, Philosophy; Rev. Joseph Maguire, Chemistry;
Rev. Joseph Donahue, Physics; Rev. Dr. Nieuwland, Botany; Rev, Alexander Kirsch, Biology; Professor Robert Greene, Pharmacy;
tions oflawyers.
Professor Scheib, Agriculture; Judge. Francis There is every reason to believe that the new
J. Vurpillat, Law.	arrangement of faculty will be productive of the
The four deans of the faculties are men greatest efficiency, in the academic; activities of exceptionally well fitted for the duties of their the University.-—T.HBeacom.
positions, all having for years taken part in the. work which has secured for Notre Dame high
recognition in the educational world.	'
Father Carrico, bom December 27,1881, at ./ -	: M
- Raywick, Kentucky/ received his degree of; The manyfriends of FatherPeter Hebert, Bachelor of Arts at St. Mary?s College, Kentucky, C. S. C./ Of <&e U^ facility;; were grieved in 1902, the degree of Bachelor of Letters from . to hear that his father, Mr. John Hebert, had r Notre Dame in1903, and the degree of Doctor ; succumbed to a serious operation dn>Qctober < ofPhilosophy at the Catholic University in 1903. 18th, at Pinhebog, Michigan. The deceased
. He has been professor of English at Notre Dame was born inQuebec, Canada, in 1844, and in and professor of ethics at St. Mary’s College, 1875; mdved..^
Notre Dame, during the last several yeare. . resided imtil hisdeath. Father Hebert oificiated Rev. Dr./Nieuwland was born in Ghent/
Belgium, Febmary14, .1878. He received his~ said? on; tiie day ;	/
I Bachelor of Arts from Notre Dsnne in 1899; his clergymehpfesentinthesahctuarywas Father 3 r ; degree of Ddctor in Philosophy ffom the Catholic • Cunnihgli3^:{&j-]£b^
/ / University in i9O4, and the Doctor’s degree in paperpays/toMr.Hebeilth^
Science from Notre Dame, in 1912. He is the author of an important scientific treatise and t has done other distinguished work in establishing certain botanical facts previously unknown to the science. He was the founder and is still the . editor of the AmericanMidland Naturalist, and has taught botany and organic chemistry at the, University for nearly two decades.
Professor McCue, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, is in point of service one of the .
oldest members of the teaching staff. Born November 13, 1863 in Poughkeepsie, New York, he became a Bachelor of Science a.t Notre Dame in his sixteenth year. He received also from Notre Dame the degree of Master of Science in 1879, and his degree in Civil Engineering in 1881. As teacher at Notre Dame he has conducted the
’ classes in astronomy and civil engineering.
Professor-Vurpillat, for several years a promi-
nent circuit judge in Indiana, is highly distin-■ guished by-his sound theoretrical knowledge in the Law, to which is added his valuable experience as practicing attorney and as judge. He was bom forty-six years ago at Winnamac, Indiana, and made his college course at Notre Dame, taking the Bachelor’s degree in Law in 1891, and the Bachelor in Letters£ in 1892. All of the Law Alumni of Notre Dame will be joyous to learn that Professor William Hoynes, LL. D., K. S. G., has been re-appointed Dean
Emeritus of the College of Law, of which he was the founder and in which he has reared genera-
Obituaries




^t^No^don^SdKicwinc
9i
“He was a manofst er ling character, industrious matters in the future must be referred to this and just. . . . The remembrance of. his high Committee on Students’Activities for author-
civic virtues and noble Christian ideals .will
ization. The selection, of cheer leaders, choice . always be an incentive to nobler and better of yells, songs, stunts, and the like will be made things to those who kngw him.” To Father by this Committee.

Hebert, to his bereaved mother, brothers, and	\ ~ ~
■ sisters, Notre Dame proffers her prayerful The Direct* of Studies announc« that dsy 7 sympathy in their sorrow. ,	enactment of the .Faculty all graduates of the - ■
Casper B. Kuhn.	. University will in future; receive in graduation
News of the death of Casper B- Kuhn at a-tank in accordance with the following distinctions:	"
- Nashville, Tennessee, was received' at the
. University recently. Mr. Kuhn was a student of Notre Dame in the late 70’s, and for many
_ years in later life auditor for the city of Nash-’ ville. To the sister, brother, and other relatives
• of the deceased the sympatuy of Notre Dame is
i.
Maxima, cum Laude, (with highest honor), the
■ graduate whose bulletin average-is between 95% and 100;	.	.	. -	.
2.	Magna cum Laude (with high honor); the graduate ' whose average is between 90 % and 95;	\ '
3.	Cum Laude, (with honor), the graduate whose •..
offered.
’ average is between 85% and 90; . . .	.
* 4. The graduate whose average is between 70% and
University Bulletin.
Alb students who have received Knights,of Columbus scholarships are requested to see the . Director of Studies as soon as possible.
«5-	•/	- - .	.	,
In 1920 this average will be based on the senior year only; in 1921 on the junior and. the senior years; in 1922, on the'sophomore, the junior, and the senior years; in 1923 and thereafter on all four years of the college course. .	•
It is urged that students use the opportunity of going to confession in the evening, because of the great difficulty of hearing all the con-.fessions during the Masses in the morning. Father Irving willbe in. the confessional to the right of the main altar in the basement chapel every evening. .	..
The Quarterly Examinations will be held on November 17th and i$th, as follows: .
t ■	.	. November 17 -	?	.
Classes taught at..
8:10
10:15
1:15
3:05
examined-at. '. 8:00 ..	..
10:30’ X30	‘
. 4:30. ;
_ . November 19
A Committee to be known as “ The Students’ . Activities Committee,” composed of the follbw' ing members; has been* appointed by the President of the University :	.	-
9:05..
11 :io
2:10
8:00
1030 .
1:30
~ Christian Doctrine dasses will be examined at 7200
p. m. on Tuesday, November 18th
. Kev. Matthew -Walsh, Rev. John C. McGinn,	' —-——
. - Mr. Knute Rockrie, the President of the Senior - py or(jer of the-.Director of Studies the follow-.
.. Class, the - President of the Junior Class, -the	are published concerning* the matter *
President of the Sophomore_Class, the President of honesty in academic work:	f
.	of . the Freslimen Class, the President of the when a student copies in an examination the fact
\ Senior Daw Class,—T. J. Tobin, J. Waters, V. is to be reported By. die teacher, to the Prefect <of Fagan, P. Banry, J. W. Connerton, P. Scofield, Discipline. .For the. first offense.7a letterconcerning . ' and Tr p Bahan*	--	-■	~ the matter wffl.be sent, to the parents of the student;
. ' The work of ’ this Committee.-wiUbe to
* -*. ..	.. * .	.	,	,	:	for thirty - days;.for the .third, offense the student will. -
organize, direct, and regulate student activities expenea
. " . of apubhc; nature, at home or abroad*, for the. -cumulative, , and hence a student three timjes guilty of/
. * purpose of promoting . better college spirit copyings even if the -offenses..occur; in different years, -
L ~v through organized effort:	*.	; . ... wffl. be expelled. ^*.-	:
' It will be the duty of this Committee to A stn^
....... x - . .,*	-..	,	1 will be given zero for the exammation. When there is
?	“I’ ; evidence of dishon^ty in dafly classwork, such as
. ; lections bf/money, unauthorized sale - of •- tickets,'. .. copying duties^ the-’ student -will- be penalized Tor each^_' ~ ~ ^nd other money-making schemes. All such offense ten per cent on the hext quarterly builetm.




Now dome Scholastic
92
Personals.
—Frank M. Hogan (LL. B. ’14) is now successfully practising law at Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Found: In the local post-office a pocket knife, lost from someone’s parcel-post package. Apply to the post-master.
—James M. McNulty (E. E-, ’19) spent last week-end at the University. “Jim” is now associated with the General Electric Co. at. Fort Wayne, Indiana.
—Hollis E. King (LL. B., ’16) watched the Notre Dame eleven take Western Normal to defeat last Saturday. Hollis was a varsity football player in his day.
—Lieut. “Joe” Pliska, (former varsity man) who was discharged last week from the Aviation Corps, paid a short visit to Notre Dame while en route from Mineola, N. Y., to Chicago.
—Albert V. King (Ph. B., ’14), guard on the 1913 varsity eleven, witnessed the Notre DameWestern Normal game last Saturday. “Al” is now employed with the Northern Trust Co., Chicago. -
—Clarence Bader, graduate in accounting last year, visited Notre Dame a few days ago. “Chick” was formerly a varsity baseball and basketball star. He is now associated with the Gary Lumber and'Coal Co., Gary, Ind.
—A card has just been received announcing the birth of a son to Mr. and Mrs. Harry P. Breslin, of Summit Hill, Pa. Harry was graduated in Electrical Engineering in 1917 and announces that his son is already registered for Notre Dame.
—Evidence of the riotous betting at the time of the Notre Dame-Nebraska game has been received in the report submitted to Frank J. Petritz (M. E. in E. E. ’03), now special examiner for the Bureau of Securities, Department of Trade and Commerce, for the State of Nebraska. The cherished document follows:
State of Nebraska.
—) In the matter of the Notre DameFile No I r
' j Nebraska Football game, Oct. 18, 1919.
. '	Report. ,
This game was played on the Nebraska field on Saturday, Oct. 18, 1919. Notre Dame came, saw, and conquered.	.
Enclosed is one dollar ($1.00), due to one Frank J. Petritz, who is hereby given authority to spend same as he desires, subject to the following special conditions:
1.	It shall not be spent in liquidation of gambling debts.	.
2.	It shall not be spent for cigarettes.
3.	Said Petritz shall render account to the Bureau of Securities within ten days from date, giving detailed statement showing just how this large sum was spent.
. Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) Josephine Dougan, A Nebraska Fan.
—“Don” Kennedy, student in commerce 1917-18, is now a junior mend er of the firm of Kennedy and Mintz, real estate agents, Johnson City, N. Y. “Don” was recently discharged from the Navy, in which he was commissioned an ensign, and his many’’ Notre Dame friends wish him success.	"
—O’Hara-Conaghan.
Book Reviews.
Our Own St. Rita, by the Reverend M. J. Corcoran, O. S. A. Benziger Brothers, New York. Price, $1.00 net.
’ Of the many people who have a special devotion to St. Rita as “the Saint of the Impossible” only a comparatively few perhaps know the story of the sorrowful, holy life which merited for her the grace of that title. It is observed that with every favor she obtains for a client she sends a cross of some kind. After learning "in detail the story of her life one is better able to understand why this is so and to consider as a special honor and privilege a cross sent by one who bore so many crosses with such patience. Father Corcoran has done, under the title, “Our Own St. Rita,” in most plausible manner the biography of this girl, wife, mother, nun, and saint. The account of her trials, sufferings, and motives is at once judicious and sympathetic, and so presents the life of this holy woman in a way to render it intelligent, interesting, and inspiring to the general reader.
Whose Name is Legion, and The Deep Heart, by
Isabel C. Clarke. Benziger Brothers, New York. Prices net, $1.35 and $1.50.
To the many Catholic readers who are of the opinion that there are no really interesting, worth-while'Catholic novels Isabel C. Clarke has furnished another refutation in the publication of her recent novels, “ Whose Name is Legion” and “The Deep Heart.” Miss Clarke is fast achieving for herself a high place among Catholic fictionists, and the present productions are well up to her standard. Perhaps the most noteworthy features of her work are originality of plot, art in characterization, a certain cunning of diction, and the easy, natural manner in which her stories breathe of Catholicity. She always has a story to tell and is never dull in the telling. “Whose Name is Legion” has as subject the very current and much-discussed topic of spiritism, and the author presents the matter ably from the Catholic position. These two’ stories, like the author’s . former ones, are marked by a delicacy of touch, a wealth of imagination, strength of thought, and a vigorous style. . To those who .wish good Catholic stories well told we would recommend the books of Isabel C. Clarke.—b. c.

Ncrcre dame Schdascic	93
Local News.
—At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Electrical Engineers a branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was established with the following men as officers: honorary president, Prof. J. A. Caparo; president, J. F. , Miles; vice-president, G. L. Sullivan; secretary, W. Leo Wenzel; treasurer, 0. L. Sidenfaden. A program of interesting meetings is being arranged and will be published in the Scholastic soon.
—Beginning at 7130 p.m. Wednesday, October 29th, Rev. George Marr, C. S. C., Rector of Sorin Hall, gave to the Minims a retreat of two days, ending on All Saint’s Day, November 1st, with solemn Mass celebrated by the Reverend President, at which twenty of the Minims received their First Communion. Farther Marr , gave also _the retreat for the students of • Carroll Hall.	.
—Abandoning the plan in vogue last year, the Knights of Columbus will this year be organized for the building fund campaign according to the halls in which they reside. Thomas H. Beacom will have charge of the campaign in Sorin Hall, James-W. Connerton in Corby, Alfred C. Ryan in Badin, A. Lyndon Bryce in Walsh, Emmett Sweeney in Brownson, and Alden J. Cusick among the day students.
—At the suggestion of President Bums, the ; Student Activities Committee has asked the Chamber of Commerce to take charge of the local drive for contributions to the Roosevelt Memorial Fund. In each hall have been organized teams which will be under the direction of an executive-committee, composed of J. C. Powers, chairman, A. C. Ryan, J. P. Dower, and. John Buckley. Every student at the. University is expected to make at least a small contribution to the fund. .	‘ •
—On Monday evening, November 3rd, a meeting of the local branch of the Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Building. Papers on “Trans-Atlantic Radio Communication” will be read by Messrs. W.
. Sullivan, Sidenfaden, and Trant. AH men taking engineering courses and any other students interested in this subject are urged to he present at this meeting, to begin at 7:3c. All students of. electrical engineering by identifying themselves with the Notre Dame branch have a means of acquainting themselves with the latest
developments in their, profession through the medium of the “Proceedings of the American Insitute,” the official bulletin of the organization.	* •
—In the election of officers, the only matter of business that was considered by the Senior Lawyers at their meeting, Friday, October 24th; M. Edward Doran was chosen as president, Clifford O’Sullivan as vice-president, Humphrey L. Leslie as secretary, Maurice Smith as treasurer, and George Murphy as sergeant-at-arms. The whole class will attend the Indina game in a body, six of the number being on Coach Rockne’s squad.
—The Grail, a monthly publication of the Benedictine Fathers at St. Meinrad’s, Indiana, contains in its October issue an excellent poem entitled “October,” by Professor. John M. Cooney, of the Journalism Department of the Universify'. The piece is permeated with the sanctity of the month of the Holy Rosary. There is also in the same issue an article on “International Law” by Miss Mary E- Sullivan, summer school student of the last two years.
—“ The Life and Work of Orestes A. Brownson ” was the subject of a thorough and very interesting talk given by Emmet Sweeney at the meeting , of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society last Thursday evening. This was only one of a series of lectures upon standard Catholic authors being given at the society’s meetings, at the suggestion of Brother Alphonsus and with the aid of his Apostolate Library., Sinnott Meyers was characteristically impressive in a talk upon labor unrest. Alfred N. Slaggert enlivened the program with some excellent stories, and Worth Clark very' ably told the truth about the Japanese question. Professor Farrell, after a thorough criticism of each speaker, again congratulated the society upon its interest and earnestness.	x ,
—In his lecture in Washington Hall last Saturday evening Mr. Mark Sullivan, former editor of Collier’s Weekly and reporter at the Peace Conference, gave in plain fashion firsthand information concerning the methods and doings of the Conference. Owing to the scarcity and unreliability of the news we have hitherto received, the address was full of enlightenment and interest. Although the speaker made no reference to the political dissension in theU^^ed States over the terms of the treaty and the fppp of the League of Nations, his statements dearly
94
Nocre domeSchdasdc
indicated that, our American representatives were no match for the wily European diplomats. His account of the “full plenary sessions,” so impressive in appearance, revealed its unimportance and sham. The address was concluded with some statistics on the terrible cost of the war, showing the necessity of preventing another.
'	—Tobin-Beacom.
Athletic Notes. .
Notre Dame, 53; Western State Normal, o.
Notre Dame walked over the widely-advertised team of the Western State . Normal last Saturday in a very one-sided victory, 53 to o. The Michigan team stepped on the Cartier gridiron with decisive victories over the formidable M. A. C. and-Wabash elevens to their credit, but left with their championship aspirations blighted. Rockne’s men were superior in every phase of the game, offensive and defensive. By smashing charges through the Normals’ line, speedy end-runs for large gains, and dean forward passes, the Gold and Blue demons scored at will. But while the men
from Kalamazoo fought against obviously overwhelming odds, they displayed a plucky and aggressive front to the very end Of the final quarter. Realizing the impossibility of denting the Notre Dame line, they opened up an aerial attack with the hope of saving themselves from a zero defeat. Fifteen times did the backs hurl
the pigskin to their ends, but only five tiriies were the passes successful, for a total gain "of some fifty yards.
Malone received the ball in the first kick-off and spilled several Kalamazoo tacklers in a good return. Again taking the ball the meteoric back slashed through bn an off-tackle. play, tricked the secondary defense, and was not stopped until he reached the enemy’s ten-yard line. With the game but two minutes old, Gipp glided around end for, the first touchdown and Bahan kicked goal. Gipp again carried the ball over when it had been placed within striking distance of the. Normalite goal by the long gains of Malone, Slackford, and Bahan. *	.
for Bahan,Phelanfor Slackford, Walsh for . Malone, Gooley for.' Anderson, Pearson. for Brandy, Mohardt" for Barry/BergmanforWalsh, Kasper-; for. Phelan; Kalamazoo—Farr for. Bennet, Bow^rseaux for* Walters, * Smith for CruU. Touchdowns: Barry, .2; Gipp,' 2;
-	. -	,	.	Brandy,Phelan,Mohardt,Bergman. Goalsfrom
center, and. scored the third marker. Before the touchdowns: Bahan.Kirk 3; Pearson; Referee: whistle Hew ending the'first half “Noriri** Barry ' Lipsky (Chicago) ; headlinesman: / Cook' (Indiana). - : had buried the ball behind the Kazoo posts. after a . o -/.	—
• In the second quarter the Notre Dame backs took seven-league strides towards the Wolverine
goal, and Brandy, who had been injected into quarter^ took an arrow-like , plunge through
beautiful dash through the whole Normal squad.’
In the third quarter Rockne rushed substitute, after substitute into the line-up. ThFvim of the reserves squelched any hope of scoring the Normals may have entertained. Line-bucks, ends-runs, and off-tackle plays again carried the ball dose to the visitor’s goal' and Phelan went over. Kirk grabbed a pass that was' intended for Westgate and raced away for another touchdown, but was stopped. Barry, Phelan arid Walsh shared in pushing the ball alorig, and Barry again carried it over.
In the last quarter the Michiganders, after being stopped dead in their own territory, were forced to kick. Pearson ricocheted back with the oval for a thirty-five yard return and followed this stroll with an eight-yard gain around Kalzmazoo’s right flank. He failed on a placekick. With the quarter well advanced, Rockne put the lightning catapult, Bergman, into the fray. The “Dutchtnan” ran circles arount the Kalamazoo defense on his first play and added another touchdown to the Notre Dame collection. The Gold and Blue backs rested on their arms for the remainder of the tilt, and shortly the
dejected Teachers groped their way off the field with their championship ambitions blasted:
With the line much improved and the backfield men startling the West with their phenomenal work, Notre Daine should certainly give a good account of herself this afternoon at Indianapolis in the title fray with the University of Indiana.
. Western Normal.
The line-up: Notre Dame.
Trafton	C.	Meers
Smith	R. G.	Walters
H; Anderson '	l: g.	Crull
Crowley	'	R. T.	Redmond
Coughlin ’ ■	L. T.	French
Hayes	R. E.	Westgate
Kiley	. L. E.	Huston
Bahan	"	QB. ,	Olson
Malone	R. JI.	_	, . Dunlap
Gipp	L. H.	. Bennet;
Slackford .	, .	F. B.	’	Shears
Substitutes: Noire Dame—E. Anderson for Hayes, Kirk for Kiley, Madigan for. Trafton, Trafton for Madigan, . Barry, for Gipp,- Shaw for Crowley, Brandy _


r^:

Noure dameSdxicwcic	95
Today the interest of hundreds of Notre on the defense against odds, till late in the Dame men is centered on the eleven meh whom third period when Miles, from a difficult angle -Coach Rockne has chosen to battle at Indian- on the thirty-seven-yard line booted the ball apolis with the University of Indiana, our rival held by Captain Murphy squarely between the of a decade ago, for the state championship. The goal posts. Sorin outweighed and outguessed the game has been called the “Hoosier gridiron plucky Walshites, who lost Captain Thompson, classic”, and elaborate plans have been made to - star at guard, by injury in the first half of the
make it such; Some four hundred students and scores of others from Notre Dame and the vicinity are making the trip to Indianapolis to witness the revival of the old contest. The special train under the management of Pearson and Brandy is especially decorated for the
occasion. It is scheduled to leave Indianapolis Indiana, last Saturday to put in a bid for the
on the return at 12:30 a; m. tomorrow. The Alumni and- student organizations of Indianapolis are planning- to celebrate the probable victory after the game. The University band will be augmented by an Indianapolis band of ' fifty pieces. A special section of seats is being reserved for the supporters of the Gold and Blue, who are swarming to the game from every state in the Mid-West. Mass meetings held during the week to rehearse old and new cheers for the occasion assure Indianapolis of the liveliest Saturday night she has had since the armistice celebration. Notre Dame has met Indiana in football nine times, in which she has won four times, lost four times, and tied once. Each team has held the other scoreless on three occasions. Six of the games have been decided by a margin of a single touchdown. Notre Dame has scored a total of ‘.sixty-seven points against a_total of sixty-one
for Indiana.
*** -
Badin, io; Brownson, o. " .
Badin, with three victories to its credit, is all set for the interhall-championship test with Corby tomorrow. Last Sunday Badin won over the battling Brownsonites, 10-0. The game was scoreless till Nixon, of Badin, blocked a kick on
Brownson’s fifteen-yard line and took the ball candidates will be welcome if they will report at the gymnasium any day soon at three o’clock.
over for a touchdown. In the last period Shea executed one of his drop-kicks, which have become one of Badin’s surest bets. The Brownson team was crippled in consequence of the ‘‘Prep” contest at Gary. Schmidt, Breen, Mur' phy, and Walsh featured in the Brownson play.
.	Sorin, 3; Walsh, o.
Sorin’s Miles-Murphy combination was too
much for Walsh in the game of last Sunday. Meehan’s team this season is very bright. -For three _quarters Walsh fought successfully .	.	.	—m. E. S.
game. Secret night drills under Coach Trafton have made the Sorinites a team to be reckoned with seriously in the interhall series. -
N. D\ Preps, o; Gary, 13. The Notre Dame “ Preps” journeyed to Gary,
State Championship by a contest with *the Emerson High School, of Gary, aspirants for. the title, but were humbled, 13 to o. Coach Klein says the Preps were not in the best of condition as a result of lack of practice and scrimmage work.
***
Cqrby, 19; Goshen, o.
The Corby gridiron heroes played at Goshen last Sunday, vanquishing the “Shamrocks”, a semi-pro eleven, by the comfortable score of 19-0. Father Haggerty’s huskies had everything their own way from beginning to end.
Cross Country Strong.
Cross-country is booming at Notre Dame. This year’s squad totals twenty-two men, who are working out daily to get into trim for the annual five-mile cross-country event due in twd weeks.. Meets with outside schools are under consideration as the turnouts have developed' _ men that are the equal of any in the Mid-West.
' The squad includes Captain Meehan, Meridith, Sweeney, and Starrett, as monogram men, and Shanahan, Bowman, Heuther, Murphy, Colgan, Kennedy, Dwyer, Bardzel, Nagel, Wm. Burke, J. Burke, McIntyre, Weiss, Keefe, Hundenline, Colhane, Richert, Howden, and Myers. More
“Eddie” Meehan, of Philadelphia, was chosen captain for the coming year in the election held by the track men recently. “Eddie” has
been for three years one of Notre Dame’s hardest and most consistent workers, and for two years (he middle-distance mainstay of the cinder-path athletes^ The prospect for Captain
I
We notice that Czysz was one of the Michigan men who got a touchdown for his team two weeks ago—he made a noise like a seidlitz powder and went through the entire field.	~
♦ **
No matter by how large a score Rochester may win, their left tackle is always Loeser.	_
Iowa has only a few men for tackle, but she has Pyles for left end.	•
Speaking of the “fighting Irish,” we thought someone might be interested in knowing that the Harrison High School team, of Chicago, is composed of Nickolas, Koska, Patstock, Sweiczicki, Dolezal, Ohde, Kofka, Saukup, Kuotovil, C. Litwak, and A. Skuller. In the fourth period the coach pulled A. Skuller and substituted Litwak.	.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF HAPPINESS.
Dick Swift has himself paged at the Oliver.
‘ My New Room.
They’ve packed me in the-store room down in Sorin,
I guess the prefects thought I wouldn’t keep, Five other lads were planted right beside me,
The registrar made sure I wouldn’t sleep.
My room is like a corridor or alley,
It’s long and just as narrow as can be, I have to back out doors to get my coat off,
The “Hall-Room Boys” have nothing much on me.
. And yet the Secretary charged me room rent,
_ And told me with a growl it must be paid, He thinks I have a. private room—he’s all wrong;
It’s not as private as the board of trade.
Two of my room mates snore and one has asthma, ' Another talks in sleep and so you see,
That in their most despondent, wretched moments, The " Hall-Room Boys ” have nothing much on me.
■ ♦ ‘
Have you had to pay the car fare yet for the stude who “closed the town house for the summer and Rolls-Royced through the East all summer.”	.
It Makes ’Em Growl.
Many of the Universities in this country are raising a million dollars so that the salaries of professors may be increased. “Feed the'Professors,” is the slogan bf those leading the’drive. While we believe professors should be fed we see no reason for giving them as p^uch raw meat as they have had in the past. .
"Sambo Back.”
There was just one black spot in last Saturday’s almost perfect game.
'	Sung by the Choir.
Oft’ my room jnate speaks to me Words that fill my heart with glee, But each evening just at bedtime soft he bleats;
“In the interest of this school
I insist upon one rule	.
Cut your toe-nails, roomy, or you’ll tear the sheets.” * *♦* -
What has become of the old fashioned Freshman who used'to attend dances in Dujarie Hall and buy bathing privileges for St. Marys’ Lake? Probably he owns the controlling stock in the Delinquent List.
Or as Joe Thompson would say of the Sorin Team— “ They withstood me to the’teeth.” -
* *♦
“■The reason you don’t pass in yotir classes,” said the excited professor, “is because you don’t study.”
“Well,” said the blue-eyed Carrolite, "what’s the use of getting sore about it,—ain’t that a mighty good reason?”
. * - ♦ ♦
The clocks have been set back once more ■ Because the students raved
About the hook worm stealing all The daylight that they saved.
•• «	* **
He was by the players bench
, Spilling adjectives of French
Could his friends such language quench?
Not at all. .
He had watched the gold and blue
- Hit the line and go right through ’Till the other thieving crew .
Stole the ball?	“
Yes, mother, we’re sleeping three in ,a bed at the University this year and there’s a big fat fellow in the middle of our bed who turns around like a wind mill all night and snores like a thunder storm.
Chern. Student.—“Why did you quit chemistry?”
Ditto.—“I couldn’t stand the ‘acid test’.” .
- Engineer.—Did you pass surveying? ”	.
Stupe.—"Sure J did.”
En&neer.—"On the level?”
the Noupe Same Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. / " Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGS SERVICE
One or two passengers, * - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - - - ■ .50 Suit Case, - -- -- -- -	.25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP
HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE 1
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
CAPT JACK / 6/ Low Con-portable Col-lar ofwide reputation
Auditorium Hotel
9
CHICAGO
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
SOLB n
MAX ADLER CO. SOUTH BERD, HID.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manager
Che Moure Same Scholastic A^epUisemenCs
No. 126
The First National
Bank
South Bend, Indiana
■ (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
• k———————————- - - -—♦ Mechanics Tools	Draughtman’s Tools
, G* E» Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard , (Opporite Poatoffice) Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind.
- ----- - - - ■■ -.- - - - ■
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER. Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Qashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
W« Issub FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
211 South Main St. ' r Opp. Post Office
South Bend, Ind.
Spalding
Foot Ball Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC.
In addition of course—	’
Spalding Equipment for every < other Athletic Sport .
SEND FOR CATALOGUE	' •’ '
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
an STATE STREET, .CHICAGO. .
Schuler, Klingel & Co. Wholesale Fruits and Produce -	4S1-4SS South St. JomHi St.
Ideal Laundry Company
“ Get the Ideal Habit’ ’
*	A	-
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the ,
\	J* ‘	-	*
Notre Dame News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining 72 Madison Ave., New York CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods; Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Citizens National Bank and Trust Co.
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd.	South Bend, Ind.


□

4
£he Notre ©ame Scholastic Advertisements
J»t. JBarp’jS (College anti Hcabemv
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
f-
Aeademy
Church
College
Gymnasium
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education : ;
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned;	..
Credits accepted by the leading Universities	s .
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection
of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted.to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.
Many fedtures/of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President.
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY	.
A
4

I
Unibemitp of J^otre Danie
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
College of Sri* anb betters.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political 'Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Me-• chanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
&
College of ^riente.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Bi-. ology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Srdjttettare. s
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of ^j-Mv

College of Jfine Srte.
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
>J
Preparatory SU^otA.
Variant Courses.
flbt CMoarb>an. For Young Boys.
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by the press and by the public as a college whose work is of die same grade as that of the most highly endowed . colleges or the best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended die University of Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.


. The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.	.
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
6
