THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A MAGAZINE
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
VOLUME LVI
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA U. S. A.
Eo
Meb. Janus WurnS, €. ^restbent Cmedtus of .	-
®nforrsitp
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTVRUS -VIVE- QUASI-CIWMORITVRVS
Vol. LVI.
September 30, 1922
No. 1
ALL ON A SUMMER’S DAY. . , .
UMMER SCHOOL in these parts is al-ready so ancient and well-behaved a person that one almost suspects it—or her—of having worn hoop-skirts and having shuddered over the woes of St. Elmo. Its really difficult even to pay her a compli-r_- ent-; she seems to have accepted all possible flattery with an air, first of debutante pleasure, and then of matronly condescension. Still there is an amazing vitality about her that scoffs at age. No cosmetics have ever been called in to allay even the slightest wrinkle, and you would believe her spared of worry. All the same, during this last season she was, nearly in the predicament of the old lady in the shoe, whose many children are reported to have -been a source of considerable anxiety. Devotees of learning crowded into every suitable nook and were so set upon their pursuits that only the pangs of hunger or the lure of our grotto could manage to create a mob. It is solemnly affirmed by those who- ought to have authority in the matter that never before had the atmosphere about the University been so highly charged with the energy of thinking.
This we shall not dispute, but rather hasten to make obeisance humbly before the •array of graduates and their theses—a formidable procession which the reader may review in another department of our magazine. Nevertheless, there are -minor details of a different character which the attentive spectator could not help observing. When a reverend Sister mistook a member of the faculty for Harold Lloyd she displayed a familiarity with the movies which shows forth a profoundly altered generation.' And Pat the able landscape gardener for the Hoynes College of Law, uncovered a marvellous' facility for invention while recounting
the histories of hollyhocks. Never did our young lady scholars powder their noses with greater diligence, and never were noses more deserving of powder. We had camp-fire celebrations, at one of which a rising young orator shook us with his “dynamic force” and received an ovation rare, indeed, in scholastic annuls. That last phrase is stereotyped, and so this paragraph, to redeem itself, must close with a mention of John Talbot Smith, who dropped in and made sausage of American literature.
Yres, there were other things of importance. Mr. Paulding appeared in person and -read scintillating bits from Oscar Wilde, M. Gautier and others. Dr. Middleschulte (now one of our own LL. D’s) gave more of his concerts to audiences of intelligence and discernment-—which includes us, as a matter of course. Professor Sullivan proved himself a master of interpretation in two difficult readings, and other lecturers discoursed learnedly and ably on a diversity of subjects. Besides all of this, the weather remained charming and drew smiles from everyone. ’ The weather, you see, is of very great importance in connection with summer schools and Ought to be made a faculty member. The irreverent would say, “The weather has generally so many degrees I”
But after all the mind of a random spectator accepts the spectacle of summer not only with a grateful smile but, as well, with a radiant heart; For the spires of our school are fitting symbols of the benignant aspiration which so many patient Sisters bring here, after a year of toil: an aspiration to win light and strength for the sake of youth that waits beyond so eagerly and exultantly for the sign of the everlasting yea. We know of no greater homage to Notre Dame than the success of its summer. That homage has been paid.	-	_
8
® e Noure frame Scholastic
FAITH, THE GENIUS OF LITERATURE.
(Meehan Medal Essay)
KARL M. ARNDT.
Were man only a plower of the soil or the builder of cities, the whole of his art could be explained as the necessary expression of a matter-of-fact and purely practical existence. A mechanical man in a world-machine would produce a literature reflecting the soul of an engine, and no more. Were he even the glorified effect of a laboratory evolution, a grateful super-child who attempted to portray the beauty of his material mother in what we call fine art, the entire meaning of his effort could be discovered by an analysis of soulless nature. Viewed as such a being whose destiny lies below the clouds, the author, whose task it is to present truth in symbols which represent the things of life by which that truth is primarily made manifest to him, would be dealing with realities no more ultimate than himself or the sunsets he described. It is obvious, then, that man the artist cannot be understood unless the full signification of the natural world in which he lives and by which he is taught and inspired is appreciated. Now the precise fault of the cold naturalistic interpretation of art and of the highest art, literature, given above is that it sees nothing but nature to be expressed and refuses to stand on tip-toe and look above it.
All art is indeed based upon nature, for it represents nature; but nature is itself representative. God is its life and its deepest meaning, and literature, which is the expression of truth, must take account of His presence. Thus all interpretations of literature are insufficient if they do not involve theology, for the very reason that all interpretations of nature are insufficient if they do not involve theology. Man’s reason is a faculty, therefore, made not to see the world and no more, but to see nature and through it, God. The true artist must consequently remember that in all his work, especially if it is literature, he is treating of a symbol; he must feel the presence of God in nature.
It is the truth of God reflected in the beautiful things about us and in the noble activities of our spirit that forms the matter of perfect literature. The characters we por
tray, the word pictures we paint, and the aphorisms we utter, though in themselves impressive or beautiful, are untrue to themselves if they are opaque; they must be as windows to the divine light. Though it has been said that any man can be a great writer if he will but lay bare his soul to the world, it seems undeniable that his soul when bared must allow more than itself to be seen. There must be a delicate and suggestive representation of something high above the meaningless material realities with which its emptiness is filled. For never has there been a man who has said immortal things without lifting his eyes above the world to the eternal Truth which stands beyond nature as we too often see it. True, the man must be seen in the style; but God must be seen in the thought, for truth rests in His mind and is expressed in His creation. What may be called the theological—and therefore the supreme—test of literature is this: it must be so faithful to truth as seen in nature that it implies the presence of the Supreme Being ; it must be so faithful to its author that it reveals his personality. There is need of personality in truth, in matter, as there is need of personality in form.
The fusion of the essential elements of literary art is accomplished in the mind of the individual; there the man is skilfully added to the thought, not dead thought, indeed, but thought that arises from the author’s contemplation of God in nature. Abstraction may thus be divided into two kinds: that which pertains to the form or expression of a work, with which, though it is important, we are not concerned here; and that which pertains to the matter; the former results from imperfect artistry; the latter, from the inability to understand nature. We have reason enough to criticize the author who writes as if there were no nature, no beauty beside the fantastic imagery of his brain, but we have greater cause for forgetting the works of him who professes to be a naturalist but who sees only the empty shell of nature. The mystic process of genius which makes great literature is much more than imagination. It is faith in a God Who manifests Himself in nature,— and faith alone makes possible the ability to understand the full truth of nature.
We Howe Same Schdagde
Naturalism, the kind which looks upon nothing but the world, leaves a suggestion in art of a human eye and a human heart; but if naturalism is itself to be representative, if it is shown the immanent presence of God and thereby present reality as the true artist must conceive it, there must be strong faith in the writer., Faith, then, is the genius, the controlling and inciting spirit of great literature; it is faith that makes possible an art in which man is shown to be lifted up to a personality above himself, in which the soul of truth is presented within its material body. ' Faith in God is necessary if we are to see Him in nature as its ultimate truth.
He is a wise man who realizes how much of the purely human is likely to creep into thought. If we are interested too much in ourselves we are likely to center all thought about us as if our minds were its ultimate source. Awakened to the power of our intellects to discover truth in nature, we are led to believe that they create the truth in nature; we produce an egotistic literature which reflects nothing but the mechanism of our judgments and the unperceiving gaze of our eyes. It is the successful literary man who avoids building the world about him in his thought and who leaves his soul open to receive the powerful and beautiful impress of nature which is conceived as the figure of divinity. Literature comes from personality only in so far as personality can throw wide its doors to God as seen in nature. Perhaps the whole truth is that the author does not live in His work unless God lives there also. Faith shows the artist that the picture he paints is glorified much less by his temperament than by its expression of the eternal beauty in the mind of God; that the truth he utters is not to be remembered because it comes from him but is to be cherished because it reflects the nature of the Supreme Being. It seems to have been the aim of all writers of literature that lives to refrain from permeating their work with the artifices of their own minds and to give existence thereby to that highest kind of naturalism which recognizes a transcendent personality in the order of the forests, the inspired efforts of a genius, and the beauty of a virtuous soul.
This interpretation of the spirit of true
literature makes possible both an explanation and an alteration of the theory that the greatest literature of a race is usually found near its cradle. The authors who live in the young manhood of a great people think in terms of the living and changing reality about them, but the passing of time an ever growing accretion of conventions and rules,, of interest in practical things, and of the deadening learning of books weighs heavily upon their simple and direct understanding of nature. It is not the complexity of their lives nor the artfulness of-their work that makes the authors in the latter days of a nation’s existence less able to express nature fully and richly. They may have forgotten nature, they certainly have closed their eyes to the divine presence in it. The author’s world becomes at most a hollow and empty form bearing nothing but the imprint of man. The divine is crushed out of place by human, and man, and not God, appears as the source of the written truth. Art declines not so much because the artist does not live in nature, but because he does not live near God. And God lives for us in the universe if we have faith in Him.
Faith in the existence of a Divinity Whose work can be seen in all material beauty has taken several forms, each of which has produced a distinctive literature. The benefit which comes from the theological interpretation of literature is manifestly dependent upon the precise view we have of the relation of God to nature. If the world is His mansion we must not identify Him with it nor make Him live outside it. Our faith can be creative only if our theology is accurate.
First came the Greeks with their anthropomorphic polytheism, who saw in each bush and creek and fountain a nymph whom they conceived as a maiden. They made their gods men and women who possessed most of the faults, much of the appearance and little of the actuality of their fellow creatures on earth. The result was a literature of rare beauty, but a literature clumsy in its representation of the divinity of nature; a literature that possessed all that art demands but which failed because it was based upon a false theology. A God Who is the source of all truth and the Creator of the earth was not known to them and His place was taken
.	| Mf J, -gff
Noure &ame Scholastic:
by deified men.. Nature lived for the Greek author, but its life was the life of men and no more. Consequently there was a lack of the elevating and purifying which the best literary art has as its purpose. A better theology was plainly necessary.
Akin to the Hellenistic conception of God was the oriental. Unlike the former, however, it did not make nature the. dwelling of man-like gods—it made nature God. The theology of Indian pantheism gives rise to an art which, is so mystical (its mysticism is material) that it cannot be called natural and much less divine. By adding nature conceived as corporal reality to the same nature conceived as supernatural reality without making any distinction between the two the author makes impossible an elevating representation of ■ nature for he effectively materializes it. Pantheistic' mysticism is therefore antagonistic to true literature, for by identifying all with it practically does away with God; by adding nature as symbolized by the author in his work to nature which of itself symbolizes nothing it destroys the noble meaning we glean from the beauty of the universe; by abolishing the divine personality it puts an end to the appealing-naturalism which elevates the realities about us.
The theology of the deist, who. is ready enough to admit the existence of God but who is reluctant to. admit His presence in the machine-like universe. which he sees about him, is in literature no theology at all. Naturalism implies religion in nature. When all deeper meaning is ground out of a landscape so that only an unbeautiful chemical process is left, then art ceases to exist. That highest of human efforts, the expression of truth by language, cannot treat of the universe as a sum of physical forces. It should treat of it as. the expression of God Who ennobles it by His presence.
No science of God is better..adapted to a great literature than that upon which the Catholic Church is based. For the Catholic does not see nature with an anthropomorphic soul, as did the pagan; nor with an impersonal spirit, as does the pantheist; nor with no soul at all, as do the deist and the atheist. His faith shows him a nature in which God is immanent, a nature that repre- -
sents something supreme and infinite, a nature that bears the imprint of divine personalty. He is best able to clothe truth in garments that are manifestly the expression of divinity.	j
We may say with Carlyle, then, that “na-	i
ture is still the grand agent in the making	;
of poets;” and we may add that it makes	f
all artists and all art, and that the nature	|
which makes them carries a deeper meaning	|
than the naturalism of the Renaissance	|
found in it. Man, of course, writes books,	|
but God dictates to him from nature to make them immortal; the writer must not be blind g to the beauty in the world which is the ex- I pression of the supreme goodness of God. | We must not allow ourselves to displace the I personality of God in our literature; we must | return to. naturalism, and we must do so 1 not only by placing ourselves in the living | world, but by placing ourselves in the pres- I ence of God Who. lives in the world. That I can be done only .by strong faith in Him. |
IT’S A LONG ROAD—
EUGENE F. NOON.
Tommy Collins was -the sort of person whose image flashed into the minds of Godfearing people of a Sunday morning when the preacher began his discourses on. the laxity of the morals of the younger generation. Tommy was going to the everlasting bowwows, there was.no. doubt about it. People had not yet begun to call their children when he put in an appearance, but there were significant looks whenever his name was mentioned and there was talk of “steps being-taken” and of “putting a. stop to his devilment.”
The money did it. At least, that was what everyone said. The. Mills were Tommy’s, with no strings attached-. When he was nineteen his father died, and he, being an only son, got everything. All he did was write checks. During his father’s life the j Mills had been under a capable and loyal j management, and at his death things went j on as usual, ‘The Boss’ having retired from j active management some years before. Con- 1 sequently, Tommy had nothing to worry about, except getting rid of the morning *
%e:NouFe- ^qrne Scholastic
headaches with which he was. becoming’ more and more frequently.troubled. ...	■
There were none to ..say him nay. ..So Tommy lived, and lived as he pleased. He had everything., he wanted, from ;an aeroplane to a well-stocked cellar. This last was the most valued of his possessions, for the worst thing that the good people had against him was that he was- an ardent foe of .Mr. Volstead. He was a great drain... on the somewhat limited supply - of ■ good, .liquor which is supposed to be in the United States at the present.	...
Tommy had a.birthday last August, which he celebrated with great thoroughness. He started quite early, so as to leave no details unfinished before the breaking of a new day. It is with Tommy’s birthday that this story is to chiefly concern itself.
When the sun rose, he was in bed. This was not unusual, although to do him justice, it must be confessed that on several occasions he had seen the sun rise. Once in Switzerland and once when he had tried to sleep near the front gate of the Collins mansion, had he seen Old Sol poke his nose above the horizon. But as a general rule, the sun had to rise without any help from him.
When he was awakened, Tommy immediately bethought himself of the occasion. He was not in a particularly joyous mood, due to a curious craving for cold water which was manifesting itself all through him, and a funny taste—sort of a mixture of essence of door-mat and extract of motorman’s-glove —which he felt in his mouth. Nevertheless, he rose, bathed, shaved,, and consumed as much breakfast as was in accordance with his condition. Then he took a “bracer” or so, as a matter of form, to start the day right. It was a sort of ceremony, or mystic rite, with him. •
What to do? What to do? His friends (he was having a select group out for the evening to help him to fix the memory of his twenty-second birthday in his mind for all time) would not arrive until late in the afternoon.—A few more bracers, by the way of stimulating his imagination.—After the fifth drink, he got an idea. (The fifth is usually the turning point.) A little romp around the country on one of the motorcycles
11 i
would, help him to pass the time and perhaps. [ help him; to get rid. of his little indisposition.	[
. .. Tommy was all excited over the prospect,.	r
so . he took a few more, just to calm his	J
.nerves. Then a big one, in congratulation of	I
•the fertility of the brain which he possessed.	g
It had actually given him an idea! A few I .more for no. reason at,all. He seriously con- • sidered taking a drink for every year of his j age, but after long, and careful pondering J .decided to let that go until his return..	•	i
: The preliminaries attended to, he left the : house and went out to the garage where : his shiny red mount awaited him.. It was but the work of a moment to wheel it out on the drive, start the motor, and go spinning down the road. It was the work of a moment, but Tommy took fifteen minutes.
Finally he did get going, but there were anxious glances from the windows as the servants saw him with almost impossible wobbling steer a course down the drive and hit the opening between two pillars that formed the gates of the Collins estate. The master was off again.
He steered a westerly course, increasing his speed as he went. The fresh morning air (it was only ten-thirty,) was exhilarating him as he expected. His head had become so light and airy that he was scarcely conscious of it at all. Certainly, he wasn’t using it. He became possessed of the Spirit of Speed!. Up hill and down dale he tore madly. Although there was lots of speed, he didn’t have, much control, but, speaking generally he managed to keep on the road.
Faster—and faster! Giddier—and giddier! “If I had a feather, I could fly,” was; the thought that entered into his mind.. Whereupon he opened the throttle a littlfr wider and wished for the feather.
As if in answer to his prayer, there appeared up the road not one feather but sev-' eral hundred of them, serving to clothe the person of a proud old cock who was engaged in the pastime known among chickens and minstrel men as “crossing the road.” The old rooster spied our now completely inebriated hero at almost the same time as he was spied. Forgetting all his experience with strange things that threatened life and liberty along the high-road, Chanticleer started \ to flee up the road instead of keeping on

'Sfie Howe dame Schdascie
12
across, as is prescribed on page ten of “How to keep well,” by Dr. Doubleyolk, M.D.
He did’nt have a chance. Tommy, filled with good liquor and the lust of the chase, pursued, and in a short time caught the prey with the front wheel of his cycle. Shrieking a farewell to his wives, Chanty passed out.
Sighing carefully over the head-lamps and aiming his mount straight down the middle of the road as best he could, Tommy turned in his seat to see the results of his deed, and what effect, if any, Chanty’s last peep had upon the inhabitants of the farm over whose barnyard he had so recently reigned.
While he was thus dwelling upon the thought and sight of his bloody crime, the road saw a chance to get in a little dirty work of its own, by way of revenge. So while his back was turned, a bend in the road sneaked up on him.
The cycle had never been over this particular section of the road before, so it was not prepared for such an emergency. Therefore, and consequently, the only thing it could do was to keep on going, straight ahead. Which it did, with all its might, and right merrily. Off the road, over a ditch, and into a fence, went the little iron charger. Then the machine stopped, gave a few despairing grunts, and rolled over—Another tragedy!! The engine was dead—killed instantly!!
The motorcycle stopped—but not so Tommy. He continued for upwards of fifty yards or more by way of the air route. Then he descended, but made a rather poor landing, and after tearing up a few yards of perfectly good pasture land with his face, lay still.
It was late afternoon of the next day that he recovered consciousness. The first thing that he did was to call for a drink. The nurse gave him a glass of water.
“I’m thirsty, nurse,” he said faintly, “not dirty. Trot out a little nose paint, please.”
Then he forgot all about his craving in a sudden movement, as he became convulsed with pain. The nurse who was an ardent temparence worker was determined that Tommy was to become a convert to her cause. So, thinking to more easily inspire repentance at a time when the victim was
suffering for his sins, she began a long and fiery discourse upon sinners in general and one Tommy Collins in particular.
“Here you are,” she said,” a fine big strapping fellow that ought to be of some use to the world, getting all boozed up and going tearing around the country in a devil-wagon, menacing the life and limb of lots better people than you are. You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Booze and particularly, booze and gasoline, have no business in the world. Aren’t you ever going to learn? If you were to do what was right, you would repent of your sins and take a pledge never to do it again.”
Her words were taking effect. He thought deeply for a minute, and tears came into his eyes at the memory of his foolishness.
“I guess I’d better have some sort of pledge to help me keep out of trouble,” he said.
The nurse believed in striking while the iron was hot. A Bible was brought, witnesses were procured, and all was made ready for the solemn moment. Tears of genuine repentance shone in Tommy’s eyes as the Bible was brought in. He thought of how narrow had been his escape from death as the result of his foolishness. He certainly had made a great mistake. But he was ready to vow “Never again” and, what was more, hq was ready to keep his j promise.	j
Sitting up in bed as best he could, he took j a firm hold of himself, looked a little ner- j vously at the doctor and the nurses and I began:	|
“I solemnly promise, so help me Silver I Edge, never during the remainder of my I natural life—to ride a motorcycle when I g have been drinking.”	|
ST. MARY’S GATE.
Along that old familiar lane We’ll saunter leisurely again, And when we reach that iron gate We’ll gaze awhile and hesitate, And then upon the time-worn fence We’ll sit and wait. With faces tense We’ll scan that stately arbored way, Until grey twilight ends the day, And then, as night birds softly call, We’ll wander back, each to his hall.
J. c. R.
Nocre Same Scholastic
ANSWERS TO THE LOVEWORN.
Dear Smudge:
My gentleman friend and me were slinking down Michigan last night and as I had just bought a new pair of shoes I asked him what he thought of them. He said, “They are immense.” Did he mean it?
Nellie Steppeharrde.
Answer: I remember you Nellie. I danced with you once. I think he meant it.
Deal- Holy Smoke:
My husband beats me up something terrible every morning. What should I do?
Answer: Get an alarm clock.
Dear Holy Smoke:
The young man I am keeping company with wears those new kind of trousers and says that he is going to get some little silver bells sewed along the slits. I hate to discourage him but if he does this he will wake my father up with the noise of the bells some night and my father will kill him. What should I do?
Answer: By all means don’t discourage him. P. S. I am mailing a cigar to your father.
SONGS FATHER USED TO SING.
There was a young loafer named Lamye At the start of each year he would clamye “You may think I’m not gayme, But I’ll work just the samye.”
And he does; every year—“Just the same.”
***
OH FISH.
Uh: I hear your car turned turtle last night. Huh: Ya, dove right into a lake.
They’re sleek and sly;
They’re slight and slim:
They sling a slanty blinker.
Beware! my son:
They’re here! They’re here!
Beware the slippery Slinker.*
* At that, though, all you’d have to do is change the “S” to “C” and look what you’d have.
Flirt: Oh, I say there Susie, where do you live?
Slinker: Down by the river. 'Drop in some time.
*♦*
The LINE has been running a series of discriptions of “Tough Men” but nothing has been said about the guy who shaves twice a week with a blow-torch.
***
A Freshman says that they have a funny door down at the Oliver which goes round and round and if you don’t act right smart about yourself and get out in time it’ll make you dizzy. How come “MAKE” you dizzy?
Reader: I hear that you took all the Holy Smoke Contributors out riding last night.
Holy Soot: Ya, on one bicycle.
Johnny: Papa, what are ancestors?
Father: Why ancestors, Johnny, are the people from whom we came. For example, I am your ancestor.
Johnny: Then, why do people always brag about them?
She: Do you like potato balls?
Starved One: I don’t know. I never- was at one.
She: Three moves are as bad as a fire.
He: Yes, especially in these modern dances.
**♦
BEAUTY AND LONG LIFE HINTS.
1—Get your hair cut at least once a year; or get a dog license.
2—Do not make a date with Siki’s best girl. Note—
This is very important.	/
3—Stay away from “West End Beauty Parlors.” Remember that brown eyes are much more becoming than black.
I know that the Stork brought Smith’s baby, For I heard Mr. Smith tell his wife, That, “Dear to us as the child may "be.
Never saw such a BILL in my life.”
***
Barber: Would you like something to keep your hair from turning grey?
Sacrifice: If you’re not going to hurry any more than you have been, yes.	kolabs.
14
&ame ScholasTic
H. W. Flannery
August Fipp
C. O. DeBarry
J. J. Bennings
VOL.
LVI.
Mitre Baine ^dwhst it
Wart ot Editors
Leo E. Ward, C. S. C, Vincent Engeis Frank Wallace Harry A. Maguire John P. Mullen Louis V. Bruggner
. E. M. Murch, G. S. C. Gerald Hagan Charles Molz Francis J; Kolars ■ J. C. Brennan
Eay Cunningham
Aloysius P. Thiemann
James Egan
isct (&trast dictums Bint ©ras Bion turns
Americans read more than any other people on the face of the globe. They will read almost anything, if it is between two covers.
This latter fact is MAGAZINES everywhere being capitalized at present at the rate of about three new magazines a week and the end is not yet in sight. Ask a newsdealer what becomes of all the magazines he has for sale and he will shrug his shoulders. He will confess in the next breath, however, that it is becoming a light occupation to publish a popular journal or two.
What constitutes a magazine? There seem to be no necessary ingredients. If you have enough wrapping paper to print one on, borrow credit at a print-shop and get busy. The expressman will carry away the printed bundles, and the news-stands will do the rest. If the magazine is particularly rotten, if it is tilled with bunk from first to last, it will not be lonesome; there will be a dozen others like it stacked alongside. The only puzzle is the kind of magazine to print. If you have a lot of high-brow ideas and think you’re pretty good, publish some weird thing that will appeal to a few of the intelligensia. If you have a fertile brain for concocting fiction that is full of the pronoun, first person singular'nominative, “Personal Confessions” is a good name. The field of the smutty story is overcrowded, but in entering the magazine game, this would not
be sufficient reason for discouragement. The photoplay field has begun to grow stale since Hollywood started a free side-show; the newspapers seem to be getting the best newspapers seem to be getting the best stuff. The radio magaines are numerous, but there is room for a few more. “Tutti Frutti,” “Smith Brothers,” “Gold Medal”—all of these will make excellent names for magazines.	•
Eventually, it will be a provision of the constitution that one must publish a magazine before he can vote. Representation will be limited to those who publish magazines in pink covers. Instead of dying of mumps or ptomaine poison, a member of the common gentry will succumb after having read one of his own magazines.	molz
Every fall a transfusion of blood occurs at Notre Dame, upon which the life of this University is dependent. To you new men, who are that blood, KEEPING FAITH with Notre Dame extends the past. a loving welcome, urging your activity in her campus life. More than that, she has a still greater desire. On you as loyal sons of a great University will fall the task of keeping up many ideals which have been set up by students before you. The records of Notre Dame, scholastic, athletic and religious, are rich. with testimonies of loyalty to.
* *
ISfe Noure ^ame Scholastic ■	15
these ideals. Now it is your turn to add to an already brilliant history. The spirit of the Notre Dame of the past and the Notre Dame of the present imposes a duty on you, namely, to write her history today and tomorrow in a manner that is worthy of her. To you new men, the recorder’s pen is entrusted, with no restriction except that you keep faith with the past of Notre Dame.
CLIFFORD B. WARD.
The decision of the Alumni Association to issue a monthly bulletin filled with interesting news about old timers and the University as she is now important NOTICE to has made necessary alumni subscribers a change of policy . on the part of the Scholastic. Henceforth this valuable and time-honored periodical will go only to those alumni who manifest a wish to continue their subscriptions. The way to manifest this wish is to send a check for two dollars and fifty cents, which is the price just now. For the present we shall continue mailing the Scholastic and shall issue bills later on. Tliose not hungry and thirsty for the many good features which this paper has in store may then send us notice to cancel. There is nothing, of course, which we should like better than contact with old chaps for whom every bit of progress in Notre Dame affairs means glad tidings.
The freshman is in many ways the life of • a college or university. He is the youth, fresh from home environments, who brings . a school new. vigor. - In A CALL FOR 1926 spite of this truth, the .	traditional attitude in al-
most all American colleges is one of ridicule and contempt toward him. Without undue pride, the Scholastic may point out that at Notre Dame this attitude is absent. Freshmen wear no distinguishing apparelupdn the campus. They are obliged to submit to no unpleasant discipline; Class warfare is unknown. For the respect which upper classmen bestow upon the first year men there is no price, unless it be reciprocal confidence. Upper classmen do expect that. They desire —just as the administrators of authority at
the university desire—that the freshmen conduct themselves as men. There is no harbor at Notre Dame for rowdies. Members of the freshman class may learn that it is for their own good as a whole to discourage rebellious rowdyism. They should seek for the Class of 1926 a reputation as good as its predecessors have enjoyed.
MOLZ
Neither the Smart Set nor the Red Book contain regulations for wearing caps along Michigan street or through the Oliver hotel
. lobby. Even the marcel waves forever catalogue is silent .	upon the subject.
Bare-heads therefore present an. unsolved problem, and whoever has travelled the Hill street car or trod the streets of South Bend must have observed this year a large number of students who are out to display their marcel waves. -	•
From the standpoint of individual glory, it is a happy achievement to be able to look like Rodolph Valentino. One may try to be a sheik, however, and become only a shriek. South Bend has never tolerated shieks at all and, admitting the best, the dear ones who sell ribbons and shake face powder over typewriters are tolerant. .South Bend has overlooked many Notre Dame indiscretions. Light bills are increased during the winter months, taxi cabs’are monopolized and happy homes disturbed. Yet the good people, whether , they live, on Portage avenue or-Miami street, only say, “What nice boys.’”-We question now whether the attempt, to emphasize the collegiateness of the community may not overtax the tolerance.of these kind people. There are, of course, college towns where caps and hats for men are un-known/—places where tea parties take the place of foot-ball games .and 'men lead charmed lives. South Bend is not one of these ‘cities. ■
It is highly improbable that the S. A. C. can take up this matter of wearing caps. The problem may be settled in another way. South Bend people are virtuous, - yet Notre Dame men who persist in trying to look like Rodolph Valentino may discover after conflict, some dark , night, that they resemble not Valentino, but Ben Turpin. MOLZ '
16
^he Noure frame Scbdasric
FAMILIAR FOLKS.
SUMMER DEGREES.
Daniel C. Dillon (LL. B. ’04) has formed a partnership with John H. Lauer under the firm name of “Dillon and Lauer” with offices in State Building, 335 Fifth Avenue; Pittsburg, Pa.	t
Commerce men of recent years will be glad to learn that former instructor Joseph M. Rafter is now engaged in the practice of law in his native hamlet of Scranton, Pennsylvania. Mr. Rafter is still very fond of Notre Dame.	'
On the sixth of July, 1922, Dr. Charles Mercier, professor of philosophy at the University, was united in marriage with Mademoiselle Marie-Therese Dumas, at Malines, Belgium. The ceremony was performed by His Eminence, Cardinal Mercier.
Nine members of the class of 1922, Messrs. Frank O’Hara, Thomas Richards, James Kline, Sigismund Jankowski, Hilary Paszek, William Donahue, James Fogarty, James Hogan, and Raymond Switalski, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, are now pursuing their theological studies at Holy Cross College, Catholic University, Brookland, D. C.
The Reverend John B. Delauney, C. S. C., formally a member of the faculty, sailed from San Francisco on September 6th for India, where he will join his religious brethren in the arduous work of the Bengal Mission. Reverend Michael Mathis, C. S. C., TO, editor of the Bengalese, and Reverend John McGlinchey, of the archdiocese of Boston, are accompanying the missionary, and will devote six months to the study of mission conditions in the Far East.
Summer marriages include two of particular interest to students of recent years. On August nineteenth, Mr. Charles M. Carey, prepatory student here during 1914-1916, was solemnly accepted by Miss Lillian Krull, of Kansas City. On September fifth, Chattanooga, Tennessee, took note of a pretty wedding which joined Mr. Paul Meek, popular and efficient lieutenant here during the S. A. T. C. period, and Miss Martha Washington Campbell. Wedding gifts include the best wishes of Notre Dame.
The commencement exercises at the close of summer school celebrated the going forth of the largest class ever seen at our short session. In fact, not so many years ago the number of graduates from the regular year programs was - not so large. It was a pleasant evening that called out a large crowd of spectators and adorned itself with the best musical efforts of the orchestra and the audience. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., LL. D., delivered the address, emphasizing with unusual directness and power the needs of education at the present time. It was a memorable speech and rounded out well the greatest summer commencement at Notre Dame.
The following degrees were conferred:
The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy is Conferred on:
Joseph S. Reichert, South Bend, Indiana; Major Subject: Chemistry. Dissertation: “The Catalytic Condensation of Acetylene with Benzine and its Homologues.”
The Degree of Master of Arts is Conferred on:
Sister Agnes Loretto, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: Philosophy. Dissertation: “The Nature of Inference.”
Sister Mary Ancilla, of the Sisters of St. Ursula Toledo, Ohio. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Value of Poetry in Teaching Religion in High School.”
Sister Mary Aquinas, of the Sisters of St. Francis, Dubuque, Iowa. Major Subject: Philosophy. Dissertation: “The Concept and the Mental Image— Their Difference and Relation.”
Sister Mary Catherine, of the Sisters of St. Ursula, Toledo, Ohio. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Project Method of Teaching English in High School.”
Sister Maria Deodata, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: English Dissertation: “Francis Thompson’s Sister Songs.”
Sister Eveline, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: Education. Dissertation: “Liberal Education and Specialization.”
Sister Generosa, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: Education. Dissertation : “The Role of the Emotions in the Educative Process.”
Sister Mary Jerome, of the Sisters, Servants of Major Subject: Latin. Dissertation: “A Study of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Monroe, Michigan, the Similes in the Aeneid, Books I-VI.”
Noure dame Schdascic
17
Sister Mary. Joseph, of the Sisters of St. Ursula, Toledo, Ohio. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Orthodox Critic and the Ethical Principle in Literature.”
Sister Mary Judith, of the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Monroe, Michigan. Majoi’ Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Holy Eucharist in Contemporary English Verse.”
Sister Margaret Marie, of the Sisters of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “National Ideals Expressed in Drama.”
Sister Margaret, of the Sisters of St. Ursula, Toledo, Ohio. Major Subject: History. Dissertation: “The Oldest Teaching Order for Women.”
Sister Mary Rose Estelle, of the Sisters of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana. Major Subject: Journalism. Dissertation: “The Sources of Editorial Influence.”
Sister Mary Rose Gertrude, of the Sisters of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Spirit of Renouncement in Catholic Poetry.”
Sister Mary Theodosia, of the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Monroe, Michigan. Major Subject: Education. Dissertation: “A Psychological Analysis of the Teacher’s Influence.”
Sister St. Ursula, of the Sisters of St. Ursula, Toledo, Ohio. Major Subject: French. Dissertation: “Les Femmes Chretiennes dans M. Henri Bordeaux.”
Rev. Bernardine D’Amico, of the Order of St. Benedict, Cullman, Alabama. Major Subject: History. Dissertation: “Religious State of the Military Order.’
Paul Fenlon, Blairsville, Pennsylvania. Major Subject: English. Dissertation: “The Personality of Wilfrid Blunt.”
Alfred Nicholas Slaggert, Saginaw, Michigt. Major Subject: Politics. Dissertation: “The Hare Preferential System as a Medium of Proportional Representation.”
The Degree of Master of Science is Conferred on:
Sistei’ Mary De Chantal, of the Sisters of St. Francis, Dubuque, Iowa. Major Subject: Physics. Dissertation: “Lissajous Curves.”
Sister Mary Clementine, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: Mathematics. Dissertation: “The Pythagorean School.”
Sister Maria Corona, of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio. Major Subject: Mathematics. Dissertation: “Certain Trigonometric Formulae Verified Geometrically by Means of the Unit Circle.”
Brother Charles Angelus, of the Christian Brothers of Ireland, St. Maryas on the Hudson, New York. Major Subject: Physics. Dissertation: “A
Study of Self and Mutual Induction, and a Com
parison of the Methods Used to Determine Their Values.”
Brother Patrick Dominic McCarthy, of the Christian Brothers of Ireland, St. Mary’s on the Hudson, New York. Major Subject: Mathematics. Dissertation: “The La Placian Equation.”
Rafael G.arcia-Rubio Escribano, Santu Spirita, Cuba. Major Subject: Agronomy. Dissertation: “Experiments on the Germination of Seed.”
Raymond J. Schubmehl, Wayland, New York. Major Subject: Mathematics. Dissertation: “The Locus Described by a Fixed Point on the Axis a Parabola rolling on a Straight Line.”
Herman Henry Wenzke, Celina, Ohio. Major Subject: Chemistry. Dissertation: “Condensation of Acetylene With the Hydroxy Compounds of the ' Aromatic Series.”
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts is Conferred on:
Sister Mary Aloysi, of the Sisters of Notre Dame, Cleveland, Ohio.
Sister Margaret Mary, of the Sisters of Charity of St Augustine, Lakewood, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters is Conferred on:
Sister Mary Josephine, of the’ Ursuline Sisters of Brown County, Ohio.
Sister Mary Veronique, of the Sisters of Holy Cross, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Antoinette J. Semortier, South Bend, Indiana.
Daniel Jerome O’Connell, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy is Conferred on:
Edward Joseph Schmitt, Sioux City, Iowa.
Arthur Cotter Shea, Indianapolis, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Education is Conferred on:
Brother Finbarr, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Brother Gerard, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Degree of Civil Engineer is Conferred on:
Daniel Houston Young, St. Paul, Minnesota.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer is Conferred on:
William Joseph Daly, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws is Conferred on:
Hugh Thomas Gibbons, Carroll, Iowa.
John Francis Heffernan, Akron, Ohio.
Emil John Hilkert, Canton, Ohio.
James Clement Shaw, Stuart, Iowa.
James Gerald Walsh, Adair, Iowa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce is Conferred on:
Edward Otis Gottry, Rochester, New York.
Vincent Joseph Hanrahan, Buffalo, New York.
Paul Irving McDermott, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
A. Harold Weber, South Bend, Indiana.

18
Now ^ameSchokiscic
THE SCOUT LEADERS’ TRAINING CAMP.
WITHIN the last two years there has been a rapid extension of the Boy Scout program in Catholic institutions. Bishops and priests have felt the need of trained scoutmasters for their diocesan and parochial troops, but have been at a loss to find men skilled in the methods of scoutcraft to take charge of these brigades.
Notre Dame began with fewer students than its first Scout Leadership Camp had this Summer. Will growth be similar?
In view of this situation, The University of Notre Dame, in conjunction with the Boy Scouts of America, offered a course in Scout Leadership in connection with the summer school of 1922. This intensive .training covered a period of ten days, from July 5th to July 15th, and was under the personal direction of Mr. Judson P. Freeman, Asst. National Field Director of the Boy Scouts of America. He was assisted by Scout Executive C. H. Barnes, of the South Bend Council, and on the part of the university by the Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C. S. C., and Rev. J. H. O’Donnell, C. S. C.
The camp was situated on a beautifully wooded knoll on the shore of St. Mary’s Lake, and every detail of modern camping was followed out in con-
After reveille in the morning the entire personnel of the camp attended Holy Mass in the chapel of St. Edward’s Hall, after which sermonettes were given by the Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., and various priests of the university and of the mission band of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The plan of the sermonettes was an elucidation of the scout law in its practical application to the ideals of the scoutmaster. These sermonettes made up what was known as the “Day’s Big Idea,” and the personal reaction of each member of the camp was given at the camp fire in the evening.
After chapel exercises the men journeyed to the camp reservation to enjoy the morning mess. Then after a short recreation, scoutcraft and the necessary phases of woodcraft took up the rest of the active day. Instructions in life saving, swimming, first aid, signaling, tracking, use of knife and axe, star and bird hikes, outdoor cooking, tree and plant hikes, map reading and overland trips went to make the day one of interest and of practical value. Various specialists from the university faculty aided Mr. Free-
Notre Dame is an ideal camp site. In addition, it is itself an ideal.
man in this regard, and also practical scoutleaders from the nearby scout reservations.
Two trips were made to outside camp reservations, one to the South Bend Camp,
nection with the courses in scoutcraft and woodcraft. The daily routine of the camp consisted of a certain a m o u n t' o f instruction whereby the students became acquainted with the principles of the scout program, the essential factors of scout mastering, the fundamental elements in troop and patrol organization, the features of program planning and troop meetings, and the methods of under-stanging and handling the eternal boy.
INSTRUCTION PERIOD AT CAMP
Notre darrte Scholastic
19
“THE OLD CAMP GROUND”
where an afternoon and evening were spent in observing the actual work of the scoutmaster, and the other to Camp Roosevelt, near Interlochen, Indiana, where the members. enjoyed the courtesy of Major Beall and his staff in observing the military training of the Junior Officers Training Corps.
Boys are the ftiture. Scout Leadership is therefore leadership of the future.
At the camp fire on the closing night, the Very Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C., President of the University, gave a stirringaddress to the members of the camp in which he emphasized the value of training in scout leadership and the service which this training should render
John S. Reiner, of Chicago, Illinois., Henry Murphy of ' Greenfield, Mass., "Norman • Coffey and H. C. Kirkham of. Toronto, Canada; James , G. Pirrie of London, Ontario, William Grzybowski, of Bay City, Mich., and Herbert Kissell and Fred ■ Gantert of South Bend, Indiana. ’
Realizing the practical value of such a camp and its contribution to the Boy Scout movement in Ameri-
ca, the University of Notre Dame has decided to make the Scout Leaders Training Course a permanent feature of the university summer school curriculum. Plans are now afoot to improve the camp site and to make several changes in and around the old boathouse, in order to make it suitable for class room and mess purposes. The continued support of the university is assured and every indication points to a camp next summer with triple the enrollment, both in faculty and student personnel.
In conclusion the University wishes to voice its appreciation to all those who assisted in making the Second Scout Leaders Training Course a complete success, particularly the Director and Assistant National Field Director of the Boy Scouts of America, the Scout Executive and the executive members of the South Bend Council and the personnel of the faculty of the university
J
to the respective communities. After a few remarks on the part of the active director, Mr. J. P. Freeman, the Rev. Joseph Burke, C. S. C., Director of Studies, awarded certificates of leadership to each member of the camp. Those to receive certificates were: Rev. P. A. Bird, of Chicago, HL, Rev. T. P. Holly, of Pembroke, Ontario, Rev. Gerald Kirby of Toronto, Canada, Brothers Cyril and Victor of Toronto, Canada,
IN SWIMMING
Noure dameSchdasuic
summer school—July 5th, to 15th, 1922.
Camps of this sort are, of course, largely what one makes of them and the personnel of last summer made a great deal. Still, Notre Dame is an exceptional attractive and favorable place. Lakes, a forest containing almost every variety of tree at all common, offer the chance to learn swimming and woodcraft. Birds and fish are plentiful and well assorted. The faculty, anxious to make this venture a success and to display—as all faculties would—its learning, is about as good as anyone could hope to meet. Besides there is a real tradition behind Notre Dame which the Scout Master will learn to cherish.
Anyone desiring further information regarding the Third Scout Leaders Training Camp may.communicate with'. '
The Registrar, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
INTRODUCING THE NEW FACULTY MEMBERS.
Considering the amount of time students and professors spend together, some introduction to teachers added to the faculty this year has been thought expedient. The following information has been supplied, very courteously, by the Director of Studies office:
PRIESTS.
Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C. S. C., the new Vice-President, completed his high school in Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin. He entered Holy Cross Seminary in September 1899 and was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Letters in 1904. On the day of his graduation he was presented with the Meehan Gold Medal for the best English essay. He was in the Novitiate from July 1904 until July 1905 when he went to the Catholic University and completed his Theological studies. He also re
ceived the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in June 1909 and was ordained June 26th of the same year. After two years of experience as Prefect in Corby and Sorin he was made Superior of the Holy Cross Seminary, a position which he held for six years. He was relieved of this work lin 1919 and made Director of Studies. This position he was obliged to relinquish because of ill health. After a year in the southern climate he returned to Notre Dame and was made Superior of Moreau Seminaiy where he remained until his recent appointment to the duties of Vice President.
Father Patrick Carroll, Professor of English belongs to the old school. He was ordained in 1899. He was President of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin, and of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas. He was Professor of English in the University of Notre Dame from 1909 until 1914 when he was made Pastor of St. Joseph Parish, South Bend, Indiana.
Father Dominic Cannon, C.S.C., received the degree of Bachelor of Letters from Notre Dame in 1907. After the completion of his Theological studies in Washington he was ordained in Portland, Oregon, in 1913, where - j he remained as a teacher until the present j year. Father Cannon made special studies I in Physics in the Catholic University and has taught that subject for many years at j Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. I j
Fr. M. Oswald, C.S.C., completed his clas- | sical studies in the University of Notre Dame j in June 1899. He received the Quan Medal. | He spent a year in the Novitiate and four j years in Washington where he specialized I in Greek. His dissertation was entitled “The I Propositions of Apolonius Rhodius.” After I years of very successful service as head of j the Department of Classics and Professor j of Greek and Latin, Father Oswald resigned I these duties and went to Portland, Oregon, f for his health, where he remained for the 1 last three years. Many of the priests who I are now Professors at Notre Dame received I their knowledge of Greek and Latin from I Father Oswald.	S
Noure dame Schdaacic	21
Fr. Walter O’Donnell, C.S.C., received the degree of Bachelor of Letters from the University of Notre Dame in June 1908. He completed his Theological studies in Washington and was ordained in 1912. He was formerly Prefect in Corby Hall. He was Professor of Latin and Romance Languages in Columbia University, Portland, Oregon, for the past years and has been parish priest to the Spanish speaking people of Austin, Texas, in Our Lady of Guadalupe’s parish.
Father William Lyons, finished his collegiate course and was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in June 1917. He spent a year in the Novitiate and four years in Washington where he completed his Theological studies and prepared himself for the teaching of history. He received the degree of Master of Arts in June of the present year and was ordained a . few weeks later at Notre Dame.
Rev. Michael Early, C. S. C., is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. He made pait of his preparatory studies under the supervision of the Holy Cross Fathers m Portland, Oregon, and then completed his preparatory program as a student in Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana, entering the college course as a candidate for the Bachelor of Arts degree. He was graduated in June 1917. After completing his Novitiate he went to the Catholic University where he made his Theological studies and pursued special courses in English. He received the degree of Master of Arts in June 1922 and was ordained at Notre Dame a few weeks later.
Rev. William McNamara, C. S. C., entered Holy Cross Seminary as a preparatory student. He completed his course and was •graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in June 1917. After the completion of his Novitiate he went to Washington to take up theological studies. During the last two years in the Capital City he carried courses in American History and in Politics under Doctor Charles H. McCarthy and Doctor Richard Purcell. Father McNamara received the degree of Master of Arts in June of this year and was ordained a few weeks later. He has done special work in preparation
of his thesis for the Doctor of Philosophy degree.	-
Rev. T. Murphy, C.S.C., completed regular courses in Arts and Letters in the University of Notre Dame and theological studies in Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. Father Murphy took special courses in preparation for mission work under the direction of the renowned Paulist, Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P. Father Murphy was ordained in 190-5 and the same year was made Rector of Sorin Hall; the following year on the retirement of Father Regan became prefect of Discipline, a position which he held for three years. He then took up the work of the parish priest. After many years of successful work he was appointed Assistent Chaplain of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana. His special training makes him a most interesting teacher in Dogma and Apologetics.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., Ph. D., is as everyone knows the genial and popular Rector of Badin Hall. For many years Father O’Donnell has been known to the student body and to the Alumni’of the University. During the years from 1912 to 1916 he was a student in the College of Arts and Letters and played center on the football teams of 1913, 1914 and 1915. He made his Novitiate at Notre Dame and completed his Theological studies in Washington, D. C. He has made special studies in South American History and Politics and received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the Catholic University in June, 1922. He was ordained at Notre Dame a few weeks later.
LAYMEN.
Mr. Janies Patrick Coyle of Taunton, Massachusetts, was graduated from the University of Notre Dame June 13, 1921, with the degree of Master of Arts. He received the Bachelor’s degree from Mt. St. Charles College. Mr. Coyle is a member of the English faculty, coming here from the Boston high schools.
Mr. Ignatius A. Hamel is a member of the faculty of Philosophy. He was graduated from the Crookston (Minnesota) High
22
Noure dame ^cholascic
School and continued his work in Holy Cross College (Worcester). He transferred to the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., where he was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of. Arts in 1913. He was granted his Master of Arts degree from the same school in 1915 and the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1918., He also attended the Georgetown Medical College in Washington, D. C., during the years 1918 to 1920. During the scholastic year of 1913-14 he was Principal of the Birch Tooley School, Franklin, Minnesota. He was instructor in the Emerson Institute Washington, D. C., during the years 1918-20. During the last school year (1921-22) he was Assistant Professor in Psychology in the University of Minnesota.
Mr. Hale Moore is a member of the faculty of English. He was graduated from Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, in’ June 1922 with the degree Master of Arts. During the school year 1921-22 he served as an Assistant in English at Washington University.
Mr. Lawrence Spuller is a member of the faculty of Romance Languages. Mr. Spuller was a Lieutenant in the service of the United States Government. He was detailed on educational work to Porto Rico and remained there two years. During the past two years he has been Head of Department of Spanish at St. John’s Military Academy, Delafield, Wisconsin.
Mr. H. L. Stallard of Dungannon, Virginia, is a member of the faculty of Romance Languages. He was graduated from Emory and Henry College, in June 1921 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts and from the Catholic University in 1922 with the degree of Master of Arts. He has had three years of teaching experience in the schools of Dungannon, Virginia.	.
Mr. Daniel Waters of Washington, D. C., is a member of the faculty of the College of Law. Mr. Waters was educated in the public schools of Washington, at Oxford University, England, and at George Washington University. He was admitted to the bar of the District of Columbia before -he had completed his law school work. Mr.
Waters has had- a varied experience-^he has been -Financial Aide to the Shuster Mission in Persia, American Consular officer stationed at Quebec, Panama^ Bahai, Berlin and Dresden. For two years he was attached •to the Royal Air Force and served seventeen months overseas as a lieutenant (flying). Subsequent to the armistice he has been Commercial Attache at the. American Embassy, Lima, Perm He has also written. a number of articles on foreign trade subjects. Mr. Waters in addition to being a competent teacher of law subjects, is an authority on admirality and international law.
Mr. P. W. Thibeau is a member of the faculty of the Department of Education. Mr. Thibeau completed the arts course at St. Francis Xavier’s College, Antigonish, Nova Scotia, in 1917, and was given the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He then registered at the Catholic University of America and was awarded the degree of Master of Arts in 1918. He then continued his studies in the Catholic University and majored in Education and was graduated with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. He has taught in the public schools of Nova Scotia. He has completed considerable research work at the Dominion Archives, Ottawa, Canada, also in the Nova Scotia Archives, in the Library of Congress and the Bureau of Education at Washington. He was Assistant Documentarian to the Chief of Documents Division for one year.
Mr. R. R. MacGregor of Hamilton, New Zealand, will begin his work here after the first quarter, in the Department of Philos- ’ c-phy. Mr. MacGregor has had a lengthy experience in Philosophy and the mental sciences having studied in New Zealand (bachelor degree New Zealand University) and Germany (Doctor of Philosophy degree). He has had twelve years experience in lecturing and in teaching. In addition to distinctions already stated he is a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature (England), • Fellow of the Royal Anthropological .Institute (England), Member of Sociological Society (London), Life Member of the -London Historical Association. In addition he is an •	-4
experienced publicist, both in journalism and as a lecturer. . - .

Norre^ame Scholastic
CAMPUS COMMENT.
The Indianapolis Club opened the school . year last Sunday with a characteristic fiery ^meeting. Election of officers resulted in Robert M. Rink, ’24, being chosen as president; Eugene M. Fogarty, ’24, vice-president; Thomas M. O’Connor, ’25, secretary; and Joseph P. Harmon, ’25, treasurer. Plans are under way for a dance to be given by the club in the near future.
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers resumed activities Monday evening, Sept. 25, .when thirty men turned out for the first meeting of the year. The following officers were chosen to direct the activities, of the year: Vincent J. Brown, Pres.; Walter F. Rauber, Vice-Pres.; Walter L. Shilts, Secy.; and Edward L. Chausse, Treas. The Pres,, appointed the following, standing committees: on membership, C. Hartman, C. Dunne,, and G. .Butterfield; on entertainment, W. Rauber, “• E. Chausse, and A. Butterfield. The meeting, strictly a business one, was conducted with a great deal of enthusiasm, and indicated that this might be a banner year for the society.	■	.
The next meeting will. be held Monday evening, Oct. 2. A good snappy program will be presented, and it will- be well worth while attending. Every man who is enrolled, as a student of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame is cordially invited. ,
Official registration of students at the University began on Monday, September 11. It was found impossible to care for all those wishing to register during the three. days originally designated, and it was decided to devote the whole week to completing the work. On Monday of this week definite figures were not obtainable, but at that time it appeared almost certain that the nineteen hundred mark would be passed by Saturday. Of this number about seven hundred are enlisted in the ranks of the Day Dodgers, but this number will undergo a very substantial reduction with the completion of the new hall which is being erected near the gymnasium. Foreign countries have their usual large representation, South- America and the
23
Philippines leading in the number of students sent from outside the boundaries of the United States.	'
The renovation work undertaken by members of the Chicago Club residing in Sorin Hall is proceeding rapidly. The energetic and progressive members of this club have taken upon themselves the task of further beautifying “beautiful Sorin.” Leaders in the movement are George Devers and Ed Kelly; and George O’Grady and Ed. Gould are numbered among the principal martyrs to the cause.
Among the changes noticeable on the cam- . pus this year is the removal of the newsstand from its ,old location to new quarters on the ground floor of the Main Building. The stand is under the management of Galvin and Hagan, and gives every indication. of giving. complete satisfaction to' its many patrons. . The work of photographing the football players has been completed by the representative of. the National Photo Shop Corporation of South Bend, and the pictures will soon be on sale at the stand.
Miss Genevieve Forbes, of the Chicago • Tribune, probably the best known woman reporter in the United States, narrated Friday to the journalism students of the university, her adventures as a voluntary steerage passenger to the United States from County Wexford, Ireland. The voyage was made to investigate conditions under which third class immigrants travel, and experiences they undergo before gaining admission to this country. According to Miss Forbes, the venture revealed very shameful treatment, and a disregard for the most ordinary of human decencies and comforts. '
Miss Forbes is tall, attractive, energetic and alert, and speaks both fluently‘and well, being particularly apt in drawing pictures of-persons, scenes and incidents. Sheris a graduate of Northwestern University,' and has been connected with the Chicago Tribune for the past several years' as a writer of special articles. ’	'	‘	■
The first Senior meeting of the year was held Tuesday noon. With President Dacy in the chair the business of the day was handled speedily. Discussion of the date Tor
24
Moure &ame .Scholastic
the Senior Ball, oratory by Flannery on the subject of the Dome, and consideration of the plan for the exhibition of the.films of the Notre Dame football team in action occupied the session.
After vigorous campaigning among all the students of the school, irrespective of class standing, Freshmen candidates for office were voted on at the Washington Hall meeting on Tuesday. The final count showed Bob Cahill of Brownson elected to the office of president; Thos. Burke of Brownson, vicepresident; James Whelan of Badin, secretary; and Ed. O’Neil of Brownson, treasurer.
The crisp air of autumn has for the past week been acting as a conductor for the harmonies of the Glee Club and the sweet strains of music issuing from the University band room. Glee Club organization under the direction of President William Furey, South Bend’s soloist extraordinary, was begun the first week of school. A large crop of song birds attended the first wave of Conductor Becker’s baton, and Furey optimistically remarks that this year will be the best ever. Less is known of band activities, but their performances of past years lead us to place our faith in the bandmen.
The first regular meeting of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, was held Tuesday evening. The principal business was the election of officers. Unity and oratorical eloquence were prominent features of the evening. Henry Barnhart of Marion, Ohio, was honored with a unanimous election to the office of Grand Knight. Further unanimity marked the election of Stephen Crawford Willson of New York City to the position, of Deputy Grand Knight. Other officers were elected as follows: Financial Secretary, John Flynn (re-elected); Recording Secretary, John James; Treasurer, James Egan; Chancellor, Vincent Engels; Advocate, Ray Gallagher; Warden, Thomas Lieb; Inside Guard, Edmund Tschudi; Outside Guards, John Henaughan and John Lightner.
The office of lecturer and the trusteeships will be filled at the next meeting of the council.	HAGAN.
IN MEMORIAM.
On June 20, 1922 Brother Charles, C. S. C.r for many years head carpenter at Notre Dame, passed to his eternal reward. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1863, and was in active service for fifty-nine years. The last eleven years of his life were spent at Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. At Notre Dame Brother Charles constructed several of the University buildings, thus saving largely for the Community. While thus serving his Order in a material way, Brother Charles did much more by his exemplary religious life and his gentlemanly conduct to edify his own brethren as well as all others with whom he came in contact. He was a type of what a perfect religious should be in all his relations with the outside world. His memory will be long cherished by all who knew him. The lives of men like Brother Charles are an honor to their kind and a glory to the Catholic Church. It was by following her teachings that he became a model of every Christian virtue. If there were more men in the Church of Brother Charles’ type her influence would be much greater..
The drowning of John Hope in St. Joseph’s Lake on June 14 brought sorrow to his many friends and companions. John had just completed his junior year in commerce and was about to return home when death summoned him. To his brothers, Winifred, class of ’ll, and Arthur, class of ’20, to his parents, and to other members of his family, the Scholastic proffers sincerest sympathy and promises the prayers of the faculty and students for the repose of his soul.
We regret to announce the death, at Rennes, France, of the aged mother of Rev. Charles Doremus, C. S. C. We bespeak for her the prayers of older and younger students.
On the sixteenth of July, Mr. Louis Dellone, of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, departed this earth. His five sons, Frank, Louis, Joseph, Harry and Eugene, attended Notre Dame some years ago. Prayers are requested by the family.
R. I. P.
Noure (StameSchdaFuic
25

WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
UP ROCK’S SLEEVE.
Coach Knute Rockne, now attempting to * build a winning football team from a squad of 70 men who include no regulars of last season, will see his first indication of success or failure September 30 when his Fighting Irish bump Kalamazoo in the opener of a ten-game schedule which includes St. Louis, ’ Purdue, Depauw, Georgie Tech, Indiana, West Point, Butler, Carnegie Tech and Nebraska.
Georgia Tech, West Point and Nebraska, representing the class of three sections of the country, will be met on foreign fields. Another sectional team of importance, Carnegie Tech, will be met at Pittsburg.
Georgia Tech in the fifth game of the schedule, is recognized as the stony crag upon which Notre Dame hopes will build # or wreck. If Rockne’s eleven, which will still be in the making at that time, can clout the Yellow Jackets on their home grounds— a feat which no other team has accomplished for three seasons—prospects will be bright for the later games with experienced Army . and Nebraska elevens. If Notre Dame loses decisively at Atlanta, little hope will be held for victories over West Point, Nebraska and Indiana, teams which have bowed to Notre Dame for three consecutive seasons.
K Capt. Carberry at end, Castner at fullback, Lieb and Cotten at tackles, Degree at guard and Thomas at quarterback, represent Rockne’s working nucleus. Although none of these men was a full-fledged regular last year, all are fairly-well seasoned.
Besides Assistant Coach Halas, Rockne ♦ has Roger Kiley, back at school completing his law course; he is assisting in coaching the line;
Moving pictures of four big games on the football schedule will be exhibited in South
1 Bend within four days of each game accord
ing to arrangements completed by the senior Theatre. The battles to be filmed are with Georgia Tech, Indiana, West Point and Nebraska.
An attempt will be made to exhibit the films in other cities. Copies of the Georgia Tech contest will be sent to Atlanta and the Nebraska game will be shown in Lincoln. The Indiana and Georgia Tech pictures will be released in Indianapolis previous to the Butler battle. To these will be added the Army film for presentation at Pittsburg, where Notre Dame meets Carnegie Tech, and at Lincoln where Nebraska will be met.
South Bend people are more interested in -Rockne’s new team than in any squad assembled in recent years, and the movement to bring the important intersectional games back home in celluloid has met with favor. Indiana will appear here as a star attraction of the annual homecoming celebration. Proceeds from the venture will be used to reduce the cost of the activities of senior week in the spring.
The schedule:
Sept. 30, Kalamazoo at Cartier Field;
Oct. 7, St. Louis U. at Cartier Field;
Oct. 14, Purdue at Lafayette;
Oct. 21, Depauw at Cartier Field;
Oct. 28, Georgia Tech at Atlanta;
Nov. 4, Indiana at Cartier Field (Home-coming) ;
Nov. 11, Army at West Point;
Nov. 18, Butler at Indianapolis;
Nov. 25, Carnegie Tech at Pittsburg;
Nov. 30, Nebraska at Lincoln.
WALLACE-MAGUIRE.
Students and alumni are requested to submit press clippings on Notre Dame sports to Harry McGuire, 208 Walsh Hall, or to Frank Wallace, Box 82, Notre Dame, Ind.

26
/Sfie Moure dame Scholastic
ON FOOTBALL AND COACHES.
We reprint with pleasure two paragraphs from an article by Coach, Charles VW. Bachman, which appeared-in the February issue of -the Athletic- Journal. Needless to say, it is by “Bach” our old star guard.
Not so many years ago the other members of the faculty looked upon the football coach as a necessary evil. It' was understood that he was a man of no particular .ability, intellectually inferior to themselves, but to be tolerated because the demand for football in the colleges was so strong that it coud not be resisted. Their sole hope was to keep both undei; faculty supervision. But times have changed. ■ The coach of to-day finds himself in a position as dignified and influential for good as it is unique —a position won by sheer merit of service to the college. He not only has in his keeping the tradition, the reputation and the honor of the college in football—things which are exceedingly dear to the hearts of the students and’ alumni—but he is charged with a far greater responsibility, for to him falls in a great measure the task of supervising and moulding the physical, mental, and moral growth of the students under his direction. Through them he reaches out to inflluence the mental attitude, the ideals, and the tone of the entire student community to a far greater 'degree than the superficial observer or the hostile critic may care to admit. So important has become the position of the coach, and so powerful his influence upon the men under his care and upon the institution at large, that our colleges and universities are taking special precautions to fill this important position with men distinguished not only for notable athletic achievements, but for their qualities of leadership and their high moral standards. The wisdom displayed by college administrative officers in adhering to this policy cannot be questioned. when one recalls the affectionate respect with men of mature years, competent to judge of those qualities which make for success and good citizenship, speak of the coaches who in years gone by taught them the fundamentals of manhood on the football field where a man’s worth is reckoned in manly qualities instead of in a bank account or political preferment. Truly, the football coach must be a friend, philosopher, and guide to the boys whom he seeks to assist as they struggle with the great problem of learning to be men.
Football which is purely an American game, has grown tremendously in popularity since the first intecollegiate contest was played between Rutgers and Princeton in 1869. But it was not until America entered the war. and was confronted with a pressing .need for men possessed, of initiative, executive ability and outstanding qualities, of leadership that the true value of the. game was realized. It “was played in all of our training camps, and
the game, was .not.limited, to college trained men, but. was taught -to. all because of its value in making fighting'men. The'University of Notre Dame, a university which has consistently the most successful football, teams in the United States, famous for its superb spirit, accounts for. that spirit largely by the fact that every Notre Dame student plays, is encouraged to play the ; game. The morals ' and fighting qualities of the American armies in France were sources of amazement to the French. They were without explanation. The light of comprehension, however, dawned upon that sturdy old ■warrior, Marshal Foch, as he sat an interested spectator at a Princeton-Yale game. He knew little of the rules governing the game, but there were other essentials of the sport that he could appreciate. As the tide of battle swayed to and fro, he pondered upon the remarkable fighting spirit of the men, the fierceness of the bewildering, complicated attack, and the dogged determination of the defence; he marveled at the wild, unrestrained enthusiasm of the vast crowd as it cheered the players on to greater effort. In the tone of one to whom many things have been revealed, he gave voice to a comment as significant as it was brief: “I see” Cantigny, Chateau-Thierry, and the Argonne had their explanation.
The demand for football has become so great -during the past few years that no institution of learning of any consequence is without its team. Students, alumni, and lovers of athletic sports in general look forward to the autupm pastime with genuine delight, for in football they find a game which fulfills their idea of a really great sport. Although the actual play consumes only sixty minutes, every one of those minutes has its particular thrill. The incidents of that hour are often so remarkable that they are talked of for years. Recol--lections of the events of a great game or the feats of a great player are among the most cherished possessions of a college student and are handed down from generation to generation to merge into that intangible something which is called “tradition,” upon which as a foundation is built the structure of college loyalty. Is this loyalty an asset to a college? A single incidene may be cited by way of illustration. Within the past year a fund of $2,000,000 has been subscribed by the students and alumni of the University of Illinois for the erection of a magnificent stadium which -will be presented to the University of Illinois as a pledge of their unwavering loyalty and will stand as a stately memorial to the Illinois men who gave their lives in the World War.
Latest Patriotic Song
We honor the'Dough, boys: By Rockefeller. ■
A year’s subscription to “Hot Dog” for the freshman who has Been trying to find “Just who this Alma Mater person is.” '	. ’

27
NouredOme^choIdscid
I
THE REEL THING.	.
. The faculty of the University of Wisconsin has decided upon a plan that will give many college football men, and all athletes in general, a chance to get into the movies. The idea-in doing this is not to have the athletes draw the enormous salaries which some of our actors are supposed to' earn or to make them the idol of the matinee flapper, but to reveal to them their faults while practicing and playing. If the plans that are being formulated by the university officials are carried into effect the slow motion picture machine will be utilized so as to make it possible to project very slowly every movement of the player, illustrating both the right and the wrong way to stop a charging linesman or to receive a pass.
&	5k 5k ❖
Freshman and Sophomore classes at the Indiana University reenacted the “mob scene” of Julius Caesar last week then a thousand men participated in the annual class scrap. And they report that no one was seriously hurt during the fracas. According to the latest newspaper reports these men could never do as recruits in Mustapha Kemal Pasha’s army.
CO-EDS SUFFER TOO.
The Daily Kansan informs us. in an article with statistics carefully compiled by local confectioners, that the ardent suitor no longer carries that neatly packed, dainty ribbon tied, box of bon-bons each time he makes a call on some fair damsel. Now, of course, many reasons may be offered for this unanticipated change. We believe, however, that one thing that has its share towards bringing this about is that a number of these youthful inamorators have absorbed and retained a' little portion of the great circus king’s theory.
***
Newspaper headline: “Vampish dress is missing at Northwestern University.” That might be, but the vamp is- still there. And so what’s the diff’.
***
CONGRATULATIONS!
A unique and distinct honor of which the University of Arizona can boast is that of having as president of the institution a man who is only thirty-three years old. He is Dr. Cloyed H. Marvin; and is probably the youngest university president America ever had. ' ” ‘	• '	' '
;	■	*** •	-	. ' • . ’ ■ r '	• ,
An • interesting. • example of a. real philanthropic., and altruistic spirit shown towards a.football teammate was manifest last week in a West Virginia
Soriftg Brand Ctothrs
New Styles
New Fabrics
New Values
You wilt find in Society Brand styles an extraordinary combination of fabric and tailoring. They are new values and they mean something to the fellow who buys his clothes carefully. Drop in whenever you can and let us show you some of the “double service” fabrics.
A //..‘a";	; W
ADLER BROTHERS
Store for "Meri and Boys 107-109 S. Michigan 108 W. Washington
28
Nocre dame Schokisric
W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES NOW $6, $7, $8
W. L. Douglas says:
“The craftsmanship of W. L. Douglas Shoes will accomplish the retirement of your shoe worries.”

college. The quarterback had received a serious internal injury which necessitated an immediate blood transfusion operation and a volunteer from the squad was called for to offer some of his blood. Over a dozen men quickly responded.
***
PRESIDENT WON’T LET ’EM FIGHT
In the future at the Northwestern University a “push -ball” contest is to replace the annual Freshman-Sophomore class fight. This change was ordered by the university president.
NO CAKE THOUGH.
The “golden anniversary” of the Valparaiso University was celebrated by all of the students there last week.
***
The physical condition of all students at the University of Illinois, according to the health officer, shows a marked improvement over those who were examined when the system started five years ago. The reason given for this amelioration is the interest taken in physical education by grade and high school authorities.
OH! THEM GIRLS!
Those universally famed co-eds of Northwestern-are back to school again and they caused a big sensation the very first thing. They are fully prepared for not only a hard semester in which they intend to study French and Latin, write long and tedious English themes and solve seemingly whimsical calculus problems; but also for- a strenuous fight to keep pace with the ever-changing “Dame Fashion.” Reports have it that the first feminine creatures to promenade about the campus wore: “dresses which revealed glimpses only of slender ankles instead of last Spring’s dimpled knees; high heeled, buckle pumps in place of flat oxfords; and vampily feathered hats usurping the fuzzy one so demurely slanted over every left eye a few months ago.” The article didn’t inform us, but we suppose it was the Spring styles they were wearing now that Winter is approaching.
W. L. DOUGLAS
SHOE STORES
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN
The world’s greatest thoughts have not been thoughts of the world.
***
Death is but the unbuckling of our armor and the laying aside of our weapons, to enter more fittingly into the possession of the freedom of the City of God.