
For The Mother Who Has Everything: 
A Subscription to Scholastic 
She has enough ND Sweatshirts 
Scholastic: The Tradition Hasn't W om Out 
Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Naine:--------------­
Address:.______________ City:_______State:__ Zip: ____ 
Please make checks payable to : Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre'Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years =$__ 
.. 






C elastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine April 28, 1988 
epartments 

4/ Week in Distortion: AnTostal ...Again by Mike Keegan 5/ On Other Campuses: A Greek Tragedy by Mike.Farnan 

Cover 

6/ Malloy's Inauguration 7 / News Event of the Year 8/Male Athlete of the Year 9/ SoSox 
tudent Life by Kevin Boughal 
12/ Murph-Ball 
19/Essay: 

by Jim Maggio Academic Excellence and Intellectualism by Daniel Barnes 22/ A Touchy Subject by Andy Hilger 
Scholastic Is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back Issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are this of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic 9! the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material become the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS Communications, Inc. 
• 1988 Scholastlc·Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction In whole or In part without permission ls prohibited. 
April 28, 1988 


Editorial 


Publicize Policy 
Sexual harassment does not seem to be a big problem at Notre Dame. But 
right now, with no policy on the issue or means of issuing complaints, the university 
is doing a disservice to all members of the community, as well as leaving itself open 
to potential problems in the future. 

The average student who receives unwanted attention from a professor, or 
more typically from another student, has no official place to go to issue a complaint. 
A much more common form of harassment occurs through joking or lighthearted 
remarks of a sexual, and oftentimes personal, nature that reveal a disrespectful or 
sexist attitude towards members of the different genders. 
But there's more involved in that kind ofso-called humor than simply em­
barrassment As the members of the university task force on Marriage, Family and 
Other Life Commitments found, when they studied the issue "this type of (sexually 
harassing) behavior is generally an assertion of power, not sexual attraction." 
Harassment is more representative of a power play than a faculty member's desire to 
help a student violate DuLac's rule #3. 

The lack ofa policy shows that the university adminstration does not believe that such incidents can and do occur here, or at least, reveals greater concern over a real or imagined public relations problem the initiation of such a policy would present. As the university strives to increase its graduate level studies and become even more well-respected in the academic community, it should recognize the necessity to pres­. ent a policy in keeping with reality. At universities, especially among graduate 
students, these things do happen. · 
The task force may have made some suggestions thatcannotbe implemented 
immediately or necessarily, from a practical perspective, at all. With this one, 
however, an .immediate reactio·n is possible. It's very easy: create a policy that 
explains the university's position and procedure. And do it now. 
Scholastic 
Scholastic 
. " 


Letters 


Dear Editor: 
Scholastic Magazine has demonstrated more than a little edito­rial courage in the past several years, and can usually be counted upon to give objective coverage to sensitive is~ues. _I hope the column edited by Michael Farnan, "On Other Cam­puses," in the April 14 issue is not an · indication that Scholastic is slipping. 
I am.usually only slightly dis­

mayed by the masturbatory tone of 
this column: "Will ya just look at the inane and asinine things perpetrated at other colleges?!!! Thank God, and Our Lady, such things don't go on at my school!" Farnan's editing of the piece on gay studies at Cornell pro­vokes more than dismay. 
Cornell is "seemingly" chided for being the willing recipient in the transmission of archival mate­rials on homosexuality _ the active 
position being assumed by an organi-'­zation which attempts to dispel com­mon misconceptions about sexuality.· The establishment of this collection was aided by an endowment form David B. Goldstein who died three years ago. How did he die? The cause of his death is irrelevant, but was re­ported, nevertheless, as follows: "Mr. Goldstein died in 1985 of some­what mysterious causes -it seems his entire immune system broke down." 
To what secret about this man are we being alerted by the use of this not-so-subtle literary "wink?" The paragraph has been constructed so as to lead the reader down the logical path that since Goldstein died of AIDS (not really so mysterious after 'i 
I

all), and since he was the publisher of 
America's foremost gay/lesbian pub­lication, he must have been ... gay. Uggghhhh and Yuck! Perhaps Cor­nell wasn't aware ofhis sexual orien­tation before it accepted the dead man's money. Orperhapsitdidknow and, worse, took the money anyway. There goes another university, dirty­ing itself with gay money, implicat­ing itself in the vast homosexual conspiracy, and selling America's moral purity down the river. How un­
wholesome! How un-Notre Dame! 
If this is not the point implied in Farnan's edition of the manner of Goldstein's demise, what might be? The only other interpretation that comes to mind is that the piece was cheap sensationalization. Too bad Farnan left out the juicy tidbit that, . not only was Goldstein gay, he was 
also Jewish. Poor Cornell. 
Michael Dini 
Graduate Student 
Department of Biological Sciences 
April 28, 1988 

Week In Distortion/ Mike Keegan 




AnTostal ... Again 


A whether or not it was good enough to capture 
knowing that he would rather die first than
nother An Tostal has come and 
first place. After briefly conferring, the 
call her, Eugene stumbled out onto the quad 
gone. But, oh, those were the days 
judges announced that Eugene had lost 
in search of new adventures. With visions of 
to remember.. 
Bertha Bigbutt's picture of a two girls fight­
victory dancing in his head, Gene entered the 
Eugene McDweebhead, referred to 
ing for ice cream seemed more life-like said 
"Marshmallow Stuffing" contest, the "Lico­
affectionately by his friends as the Dweeb­
the judges. "I'll give you life-like, ya' big 
rice Eating" contest, and the "Doughnut Eat­
ster, could not be fooled. He wasn't stupid. 
nerds," whispered Eugene to himself. Dis­
ing" contest. However, again he failed, as
(Although studies had proven otherwise.) He 
appointed, Eugene walked away, but he 
last year's champion (in all three events)
knew what the migration of the white whale 
knew that Wicked Wednesday would pro­
to campus lawns in search of the perfect tan 
Anita Diet set new eating records in each 
vide another chance for the Dorkster. 
indicated. He fathomed what flying frisbees 
event 
At 3:30 p.m., Eugene slowly walked over 
and lacrosse balls bouncing off his head 
Sunny Saturday provided Eugene with his 
to the Bookstore Courts for the Slam Dunk 
meant. He understood that when he began 
last chance to achieve An Tosta! greatness. 
Contest. Dressed in purple Converse All­
tripping over the grass because it was too 
This year he would avoid the Mud Pits and try 
Star sneakers and a black basketball shirt
high it could only mean one thing. For 
something less strenuous. He entered the 
which had "Gene The Dream" written across 
Eugene McDorkhead, his meaning for exis­
Potato Spoon Relay. With his roommates 
the back, Eugene stepped onto the court for 
tence had once again resurfaced. An Tosta! 
grabbing the lead for him, Eugene looked 
his try at athletic greatness. Deciding that
Week had begun. 
well on his way to capturing his first An 
dribbling the ball was not to his benefit, Gene 
Eugene had planned for this event for 
Tosta! crown. Gene had the final leg of the 
the Dream grabbed the ball and ran swiftly to­
months. Each day would bring with it a new 
race. The hand-off went smoothly. Eugene 
excitement, a thrill never before thought 
ward the basket without dribbling. Nearing 
began to run toward the finish line. There 
the basket, he leaped into the air with great 
possible for Gene "The Stud" McDorkhead. 
was no way he could be stopped now. Sud­
agility. However, just as he jumped, some­
Last year, Eugene met with a run ofbad luck. 
denly, he froze in horror. Standing at the 
First, Hilda "The Horrible" tucked him into 
thing went wrong. The ball slowly began to 
finish line was Bertha Bigbutt in a bikini 
slip from his grasp until finally it fell harm­
bed. And then, security arrested him, and 
screaming, "Go, sweaty, go. You're my 
nobody bailed him out until three months 
lessly to the ground. Out of control, Gene 
hero." Gene did not know what to do. He was 
later. But all that aside, this year was going 
flew straight into the pole behind the basket. 
this close to winning his first ever An Tosta! 
The crowd roared with laughter, as Eugene
to be different. Eugene was going to be king 
event, but crossing the finish line meant a hug 
slowly peeled himself off the pole. Not
of An Tosta!. 
from Bertha. "Is winning worth such a 
Timid Tuesday provided Eugene with his 
wanting to continue, Gene slowly slinked his 
price?" he asked himself. When he decided 
first opportunity to achieve An Tosta! great­
way through the crowd back to his dorm 
that it was, he dropped the potato from the 
ness. It was time for the ever popular Chalk 
room where he told his roommates, in a high 
spoon. He panicked as he tried to pick it back 
pitched voice, what had happened. 
Drawing Contest. The Fieldhouse Mall was 
up, but failed to do so. He lost the race. 
swamped with participants and spectators. 
Thirsty Thursday proved to be a blur for 
Dejected, Eugene ran back to his dorm 
All totaled the crowd numbered six and was 
the young Eugene, as, like last year, he 
room, where he proceeded to lock the door. 
growing by leaps and bounds. Eugene grew 
sucked down too many cokes at the "Late 
He thought back over the events of the last 
nervous. At 3:00 p.m., Eugene grabbed his 
Night at Theodore's" party. When the sun 
week and decided that ne_xt year would be dif­
box of chalk and went to work. He was 
rose on Friday morning, Gene ''The Stud" 
ferent. Just as his thoughts turned to more 
anything but timid as he proceeded to graphi­
awoke to the biggest sugar-hangover of his 
pleasant times, someone knocked at the door. 
cally inscribe, in a variety of colors, 
life and Bertha Bigbutt sleeping next to him. 
Bertha, in a sympathetic voice, said "Come 
Newton's Law ofGravity on the walk. Itwas 
Frivolous Friday had started on the wrong 
on honey open the door. It isn't all that bad, 
a tremendous display of intellectual power, 
foot. After telling Bertha that last night was 
Big Bertha understands. I'll take care of 
but when he was finished, Eugene wondered 
great and saying "I'll call you tomorrow," 
you ... " 
4 

On Other Campuses 


A Greek Tragedy 
Last week the 2,000 pound statue atop the tomb 

of the Rice University founder was rotated a full 180 de­grees. The statue, known simply as "Willy's statue," took a turn for the worst to face the Fondren Library for the first ime in its 58 year existence reports The Rice Thresher. A senior at Weiss University, Patrick Dyson, has been charged with the crime. Dyson and a group of fellow pranksters lifted the bronze statue from its pedestal using a structure they say meets uniform building codes. One of the other pranksters, Jorge Martin de Nicolas, is actually a Rice alumnus with a masters degree in civil engineering. The structure was designed to lift the statue at three points, a more stable and less risky method than the one-point hoist used by the contractors who replaced it. Said one school official who wished to remain anonymous, "This twisted prank was obviously the work of a crooked kid." Ha! 
Eighty-eight people were arrested at Penn 

State and led from the'Telecommunications Building by 
police after a 15-hour occupation by protesters. Accord­
ing to The Weekly Collegian, the students were demon­
strating against what they called University administra­
tion indifference t6minority concerns. University police 
were at the Telecommunications Building when the dem­
onstration began at 2:30 p.m. Friday. They were later 
joined by the State ,College Police and then State Police. 
The decision to arrest students was made after consulta­
tion with University President Bryce Jordan, said David 
Stormer, director of University safety. Former Black ..caucus president Darryl King, a negotiator for the dem­onstrators, identified the group of protestors as CAAPS ­
Concerned African-Americans at Penn State. 
Nudity in theatre productions at Chapman 

College has been shot down by college officials reports The Chronicle o Hi her Education. Administrators at 
April 28, 1988 
-,"-I • 
~' \ "' ',.,-\ -,~ -~'~.':'.'-" 311~,Llt~~"~-b.2 -~~it;~~:. 
the college have refused to allow a student play that contained frontal nudity to be performed on campus. "The Coloring Box," written and directed by Joel Moffett, a senior, examined the evolution of five characters from passive followers to strong individuals. The nudity in the final scene was intended to symbolize the "ripping away" ofthe characters' personalities, a college spokesman said. The officials said the nudity was inapprpriate to Chapman, which is affiliated with the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), but Mr. Moffett refused to delete it. Last week he accepted an offer to stage the play in its entirety in a North Hollywood, California theater. Little Mr. Moffett was heard to say that those spiders in the Chapman College administration do not scare him. 
A continuing Greek war at Indiana University has convinced school officials to cancel all dorm social events for the rest of the school year. IU Dean ofStudents Michael Gordon last week said scuffles and rumors of planned future fights between members of Kappa Alpha Psi and Omega Psi Phi at some scheduled mixers and dances led him to distribute a memo to dorm advisers saying that "all activities are to be cancelled in order to preserve the safety ofothers." Gordon earlier had banned all dorm activities the weekend of March 9 in the wake of a March 6 brawl, and amid rumors that "a truckload" of fraternity brothers from Chicago would soon come to the Bloomington campus to continue the fight. Neither Indiana chapter has a house, and both hold their functions in the dorms writes theCollege Press Service. Rumors that alumni and related members of the 2 chapters will have a "confrontation" at the Little 500 bicycle race on campus in May persisted last week say school officials. 
EDITED BY MIKE FARNAN 
5 

i 
·,i 
-


Malloy's Inauguration Highlights Fall '87 

On Wednesday, September 23rd, Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., was inaugurated as the 16th president of the University of Notre Dame. Ap­proximately five thousand students, faculty, and alumni as well as about 175 representatives from other col­leges attended the ceremony which marked the first time in the 145 year history of the University that a Notre Dame president was initiated in this fashion. In his address Malloy stressed the mission that Notre Dame has as a Catholic University. This mission is one "of service to society and the church," said Malloy. "The essential character of the U niversi,ty, as a Catholic University of higher learn­ing, shall, at all times, be main­tained," emphasized Malloy in refer­ence to the statutes of the University. The events of the inauguration be­gan with a morning Mass in the Joyce ACC which was followed by a lunch­eon for more than 1,500 inaugural participants. 800 faculty, University trustees and distinguished guests comprised the procession into the JACC which kicked off the official inauguration proceedings. Follow­

ing the academic convocation, a re­ception was held at the Library mall and, closing the proceedings, Malloy greeted the Notre Dame student body during a picnic held on South Quad. 
Malloy described Notre Dame as "an open forum where diverse view­points can be freely and critically discussed. To me, there is nothing inherently incompatible between academic excellence and the life of faithful discipleship." 
He spoke of "the mystique of Notre Dame, its pervasive spirit oftogether­ness," as "an intangible reality." The greatest strength of Notre Dame, in Malloy's opinion, is its "distinctive­ness as a religious institution." 
While much of the address high­lighted strengths of the University, Malloy was not hesitant in pointing out its deficiencies. "At times we neglect the needful in our midst; we stereotype minorities, and we treat with disdain those flauntingly differ­ent. We regretfully allow gender or race or status and rank to fracture our communality and drive us apart." 
Other concerns he addressed were "institutional needs and priorities." These included additional on-cam­pus housing, female faculty member recruitment, upgrading of the com­puter facilities, and increased support for University Libraries. 
After Donald Keough, Chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees welcomed Malloy "to the rights and · responsibilities ofthe office," Malloy addressed the crowd by saying, "I am deeply honored to be [NotreDame's] 
president." 




News Event of The Year 
Task Force Reports May Mean Big Changes At Notre Dame 
Fr the second consecutive ear, Scholastic has chosen the News Event of the Year; and, for the second consecu­tive year, the event is such that it will affect our future probably more than it has affected the reality of this school year. In a year that had the gala inauguration of University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and the pomp and ceremony surrounding a visit from the President of the United States, Ronald Reagan, the event that will have a farther reaching effect than any kind of presidential ceremony is the release of the task force reports. More than the act of inaugurating Fatlier Malloy could ever do, the task force reports repre­sent the future of his term in office. In one of his first actions as University President, Malloy, along with Provost Timothy O'Meara and Father David Tyson, Vice President for Student Affairs, appointed the four task forces to study different areas of Notre Dame life. On April 8, a special issue of the Notre Dame Report was released with the contents of the reports of the four task forces. Newly elected student body president Tom Doyle, with vice president--Mike Paese, immediately asked for student response to the rec­ommendations of the task forces, which, in some areas would create 
major changes in student life. 
The task force on whole 
health and the use and abuse of alco­
hol made the controversial recom­
mendation that at all-hallsemiformal 
parties (SYRs), the halls should cease 
providing alcohol, as they do cur­
rently. With that single portion of a 
list of recommendations designed to 
make Notre Dame's alcohol policy 
consistent with Indiana law, the task 
force report created immediate stu­
dent interest. 

The task force on residential­
ity made the suggestion that some 
form of co-ed housing be made avail­
able to students, either in some form 
of honor halls or senior townhouses. 
Student government also solicited 
student response on that particular 
recommendation. 

The task force report on mar­
riage, family and other life commit­
ments asks in the mission statement: 
"How can the University better live 
its ideals and do its job -in formal 
education, in residential and campus 
living, as a role model embodying the 
values it professes, and as an institu­
tion attentive to the needs of the com­. munity which gives it life?" 
One of the more interesting 
recommendations urges the Univer­
sity to "formulate and publish a pol­
icy statement which addresses the need for an atmosphere of tolerance, respect, and nondiscrimination for all persons without regard to sexual ori­entation. It should include "sexual orientation" in its formal nondis­crimination policy statements." 
The report prepared by the task force that many students all but ignored was on the quality of teach­ing in a research university. That report states that "The University needs to increase substantially the size of the faculty" and emphasizes the importance of the involvement of chai,red professors in the education of the undergraduate. The members of the task force also recommended that the university establish a "Center for the Improvement and Support of Teaching," and that the individual departments pay special attention to their teaching by making sure that young teachers are assisted and that the importance of teaching is emphasized in the hiring process. 
Scholastic's News Event of the Year is, in a way, still in progress. The important thing to emphasize about the reports is that they are rec­ommendations, not mandates. But the indications are, however, that any changes in university policies or developments will rely heavily on the suggestions on the Malloy-mandated committees. II 
April 28, 1988 


MALE ATHLETE OF THE YEAR 
Tim Brown dominated the 
fileld in '87 

BY KEVIN BOUGHAL 
Every time the football went into the ajr, every­body on both teams held their breath because Tim Brown might be under the ball when it came ~own. This year's Reisman 


Trophy winner made a major impact on college sports, not only here at Notre Dame, but nationwide. Scholastic Magazine has chosen Tim Brown as the 1988 Male Athlete of the Year. No other male athletes at Notre Dame this year dominated their sport like Brown did. When the 1986 season ended, Brown found himself an All-Ameri­can and a front-runner for the Reis­man Trophy.· Even with all of the publicity that followed him, Brown still dominated on the field. Teams would first plan to kick to him and stop him, but after he ran in the first few returns, opposing kickers found themselves making sure they kicked to someone else. Michigan State discovered the hard way exactly what Brown could do to a defense. Late in the first quarter, Michigan State kicked the ball to Brown, and with a great deal of excellent blocking from the special teams he ran it in for a touchdown . The next time the football came to him, Brown found himself all alone on Notre Dame's 34 yard line and he proceeded to run · that one in for a touchdown totally unassisted. In all ofNotre Dame's rich football history, nobody ever ran two punts back in a row for touchdowns. There is no doubt that the six­foot, 192 pound flanker from Dallas, 


Texas had a stellar year in 1987. In all, Brown ended the year with 1,847 yards, 14.2 yards· per catch, and 7 touchdowns. He averaged 167.9 points per game. 
Besides being an incredible . football player, Tim Brown also ran track while here at Notre Dame and played for the winning bookstore basketball team of 1986. Brown set a school record for the 60-yard dash with a time of 6.32 seconds when he ran for the indoor track team last year. 
After being selected sixth overall in the first round of the NFL Draft, Tim Brown will be wearing a silver and black jersey for the Los Angeles Raiders next year. We wish him the best of luck in the NFL. NEXT WEEK: Female Athlete ofthe Year-Molly Sullivan ¦ 





0 
ox 
Spring has brought professional baseball and penant fever to South Bend 
BY KEVIN BOUGHAL 
Get your ice cold beer here. For many Ameri­cans, cold hotdogs, warm beer and the smell of freshly cut grass symbolize the beginning ofsummer. The people ofSouth Bend do not 
have to drive to Chicago to _see a professional baseball game because they have a professional baseball team to call their own now. 
The South Bend White Sox, an expansion class A baseball team, call Coveleski Regional Stadium their home and the city has accepted the new team with open arms. 
The unseasonably cold weather and the 
teams' poor start have not daunted these South Bend fans. Since opening day, the team leads · the league with an average of 2,100 people a game and 800 season ticket holders. This atten­dance fate would give them 150,000 spectators for the year, only 45,000 short of the rec­
ord,195,000. 

However the team's 7 win and 11 loss 
record, 4 and 8 at home, may soon close those 
open arms. Now that the hype of opening day 
has ended, people have started to question why 
the team did notget offto a better start. Most ex..: 
pansion teams that start in cities like South Bend 
get stocked with players that should be in double 
or triple A. These players help get the team off 
its feet by winning and getting the spectators 
interested in the game. 

Marty feel that the team does not win 
because it has performed so poorly at the plate. 
Hitting has been, to say the least, inconsistent. 
Although one player, Ray Payton, hits over .450, the rest of the team have not followed his lead. Most hit, at best, ­in the low .200' s or lower. 
Batting has been the biggest problem area for the Sox. Their fielding has been good, but they can not put the points on the board. Marc Whitney, director ofpublic relations for the White Sox, said the coaches feel the biggest problem with the hitting is inconsistency. 
"Our hitting can be streaky. We hit the ball awfully well in Spring Training in Sarasota, where we hit 15 runs in two games. Then we struck out 25 times in a two game period later," said Whitney. "We have a lot of players from the Dominican League and, down there, they are really free swingers." 
Going into last weekends games, Ray Payton was hitting .459 with 14 runs batted in and 2 home runs. Besides Payton, Rod McCray has stood out offensively. Although McCray only hits around .200, once he gets on base, he has proven to be the most dangerous player in the league. Already McCray has stolen 14 bases and if he continues on this pace, he could steal over 300 bases in a league where the record is 90. He feels the team will get over their problem with hitting. 
"We all know were capable ofhitting the ball, but were not pushing itbecause we know it has to click," said 

April 28, 1988 



Rod McCray, the league's_ leading base-stealer, steals second_ 
McCray. 

The Sox are a very young team. Outof24players on the roster, 11 either never played in the pros before or played in the rookie leagues. "We have a lot of young players and we feel that they will get better as they get confidence," said Whitney. 
After the draft, held in June, 25 to 30 players play against each other for six to eight weeks. The best players from this league are then moved up into single A orhigher. The rookie leagues give the coaches a chance to see the players go up against other young competition and they give all the players a chance to play. 
The strong point for the Sox has been their field­ing. Several players have really come out strong in their positions. The third baseman, Ed Smith, has really im­pressed the coaching staff. At 18 years old, his natural talent, as well as his youth make many feel that he will someday be playing in the majors. "Hedefinitely has a fu­ture," said Marc Whitney. 
Outfielder Cliff Gonzalez also has stood out and the team expects a lot from him. His speed and his feel for the game make him dangerous in the field and on the bases. The Sox acquired him from the Mets organization. 
At the moment, the Sox have three catchers on their roster. After getting a good look at all three, they plan to keep two and send one to the other class A White Sox team in Tampa, Florida. 
The pitching staff has the experience with the pitchers' ages ranging from 19 to 23. Curt Hasler, the starting pitcher for opening day, is respected by the coaching staff because he remains "level headed" and "unphased" in times ofpressure. Another pitcher with a lot ofpotential is Carlos de la Cruz who has a 90 mile per· hour fastball. 
The manager, Steve Dillard, came up from coach­ing the rookie league team in Sarasota. The team as a whole is very happy with Dillard's managing abilities. 
"Steve Dillard is a level headed kind of guy. He is really easy to get along with," said Marc Whitney. "But, he won't stand for people who won't putin the effort. He will pull anyone from a game if they aren't working." 
Rod McCray also praised Dillard as a coach and as a leader, "Dillard is a players' manager. He goes over the fundamentals. Hereally treats the players like profession­als." 
In a recent game, Rod McCray found out what happens when you do not treat the umpire like a profes­sional. After disagreeing with a call in a game on Satur­
10 

-' ----­

day night against the Quad City Angles in Davenport, Iowa, McCray complained to the umpire who felt that his language was inappropriate. He was suspended for three games by the league's commissioner. 
The Midwest League, in which the White Sox play, is broken into the Northern Division and the South­ern Division. The Northern Division includes Wisconsin, northern Illinois, northern Indiana, and northern Ohio. The Southern Division covers southern Ohio, southern Indiana, southern Illinois, and Iowa. 
The fact that South Bend got one of the two expansion teams to the league actually was quite lucky. Many feared that the city would never get a baseball team because the price of a new stadium seemed out of the budget. But in the end, Stanley Coveleski Regional Sta­dium was built. While South Bend was trying to decide whether or not they could afford a baseball team and stadium, the White Sox slipped into town and they seem to have found a permanent home. 
Even with the teams problems, the environment of a professional baseball team, no matter what league they are in, makes the games fun to go to. Because th~ South Bend fans have gotten behind the team so much, the stadium tends to be lively and the fans cheer whenever something happens, whether it be a catch or a hit. 
Although the Sox have not broken a record for the strongest start in class A baseball history, they probably could beat the Orioles. But, then, who couldn't? ¦ 


Ray Payton tagged out at second (top} 

"We have a lot ofyoung players and we feel that they will get better as they get confidence," said Whitney. 
First run scored by the White Sox in Coveleski Stadium (left) 
Photos by Hannes Hacker 

MURPH-BALL 


All-American candidate Pat 

Murphy and what he wanted us to do on the ball field," said Skupien, "because he's al­ways telling us, 'Go, go, go!,' whereas Coach Gallo would pretty much sit back and wait for 
Scholastic 
Notre Dame's new coach has brought a winning attitude to the baseball team 
BY JIM MAGGIO 

Amid all the hype surrounding the South Bend White Sox and their plush, the new Coveleski Stadium, the Notre Dame baseball team has quietly and consistently gone about the task which has been foreign to the program in recent years -winning. 
But wait..it gets better. Not only are the Irish winning; they're also venturing into another area which has eluded them since 1985-the post-season. 
Not many people would believe that a team that lost two-thirds of its games last year is presently gearing up for the play-offs. Believe it. 
In a wild series which saw forty­nine Notre Dame runs cross the plate April 16-17 at Jake Kline Field, the Irish baseball squad took three out of four games from the University ofDetroit Titans. These victories boosted their Midwest Collegiate Confer­ence record to 9-3, thus clinching a berth in the MCC play-offs and, for i!Il pr;a!::tkti! ~Iiiif'm poses, guaranteeing themselv~;il:;!ii$~t{-1:,s; t,r,;;,t 

of the May 20-21 tour­nament. They now have a 25-20 record overall. 
At the helm for the Irish is first-year head coach Pat Murphy. The 28-year old South Bend resident may be short on years, but he is long on enthusiasm and experience. Fresh from leading the Dutch na­tional baseball squad to the European champi­onship this past sum­mer, Murphy has brought to Notre Dame a winning spirit which seems to have rubbed off on his players. But don't try convincing him that he's the reason for the team's success. 
"The main thing is that these kids have been losing for a long time, and now they believe in themselves," said Murphy. "It's surely not due to me, but really to their hard work and preparation. They're starting to be­lieve. With that belief comes winning, and winning breeds win­ning." 

Irish captain Steve Skupien, who went seven-for-twelve with five runs batted in and three stolen bases in the Detroit series, is just one of a talented group of seniors who has played through the lean years. He sees a distinct difference in the coaching styles of Murphy and former head coach Larry Gallo, whose team struggled through a 15-29 cam­

the big hit. But Murph's a go-getter. He's rambunctious and keeps a good personality around the practice field." 
Senior shortstop Pat Pesavento, an All-America candidate who is enjoying yet another outstanding season, echoed Skupien's sentiments. "Yeah, Coach has made a great impact," said Pesavento. "He's instilled a lot of confidence in us and made us realize that if we're aggressive and play our l'.l,',1i'tt roh;:~,, '\\e',1,'if•f, .~r.iirn~ ID tl!i:1 5:Ii;;:;.i;;,~~~f;ii:' 
.Si~bt.e~tsfnti~n.~~d... /J:..[ltt.:;;r ,~~J't!.~~IJl.ir~i 


sees plenty of room for improvement. "We're not a great ball club by any 
stretch of the imagination," said Murphy. 
"Offensively, we've been inconsistent. 
When we press, we're not very good. But 
when we have a plan and walk up to the plate 
with it being loose, relaxed, and confident, 
then we're fine." Defensively, however, the Irish have been very consistent. "We've been very t;'1'.~YJ. ,t1n defense," added Murphy. "As of l[i!~),, 1,!ii'ei:)''~,!;;; l~~}red off a little bit, but overall 
-it's been a strong point. As a team, we're field­ing at a .960 percent­age, which is in the top ten in the nation, so I'd say the defense has been our mainstay thus far." Murphy also seems fairly satisfied with the pitching. "Pitching has been consistently average, but consistent, none­theless," said Murphy. "We've struggled of late, but for the most part we know what we're getting outofour pitching staff. They're learning not to walk people, and they're making them hit their pitch. They're pro­gressing." Despite the weaknesses, the Irish have been getting some solid individual per­formances from their veterans this season. Pesavento, for one, has done little to jeopard­ize his All-America chances, hitting a team-high .360 from the lead off spot through the Detroit se­
ries with 19 RBI, 49 hits and 46 runs scored. He also set team records against the Titans by stealing his 37th career base and scoring the 120th run of his career. 
"The main thing is that these kids have been losing for a long time, and now they believe in them­selves," said Murphy. "It's surely not due to me, but really to their hard work and preparation. They're starting to believe. With that belief comes winning, and winning breeds win­ning." 

"He (Pesavento) comes to play every day and does somethi_ng good in every win we have," said Murphy. That "some­thing" often comes in the form of an out­standing defensive play. "Defensively, Pat has to be the best shortstop I've ever seen during my association with Notre Dame baseball," said Jim Driscoll, a senior in the Baseball Sports Information Department. "He saves his pitchers at least one run per game, it seems, with a great play." 
It is primarily this run-saving ability which has caught the attention of profes­sional organizations such as the Boston Red Sox. The Sox made Pesavento their selection in the 24th round of the amateur baseball draft following his junior campaign. 
Other solid performers through the Detroit series for the Irish included senior · first baseman Tim Hutson, who leads the team with 42 RBI and 12 home runs, an Irish single-season record, and Dan Peltier, the sophomore rightfielder who ranks second on the team with 38 RBI and a .359 batting average. Add to them the steady perform­ances of senior catcher/designated hitter Chris Flynn,juniorpitcher Erik Madsen, jun­ior outfielder James Sass, and sophomore catcher Ed Lund, and you have a team that has relied heavily on its veteran players to lead them in their winning ways. 
Hutson and Peltier each played a prominent role in what was perhaps the most amazing, come-from-behind Irish victory in recent memory. In game two of their April 16 twinbill, Notre Dame trailed Detroit 11-3 
April 28, 1988 


entering the bottom ofthe ninth inning. After 
a series ofNotre Dame hits, walks, and Titan 
errors, Hutson cut the deficit to 11-8 with a 
grand-slam home run. The· Irish followed 
with two more runs, and Peltier put the con­
test to a dramatic end_with the game-winning 
hit, a bases-loaded single, to drive in the final 
two runs and seal the 12-11 victory. 

Murphy's commitment to Irish baseball and producing a lot more of such magical moments has encapsulated his entire life-so much, in fact, that he declined an offer last week from the Dutch national team to serve as their skipper in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. "My whole life has been centered around coaching at Notre Dame," said Murphy. "All my life, that's all I ever wanted to do. People think that's silly, but it's true. As far as coaching the Dutch team goes, I've got to make sure that our program here is taken care offirst and foremost. I think that by leaving from July to October, I wouldn't be-doing justice to the program. The Dutch people have been great and it's been a tremendous honor to be asso­ciated with them, but I had to make the decision that was best for the team here." 
Despite the recent success ofNotre Dame baseball, fan support has been scarce in comparison to the other major sports on campus, namely football, basketball, and ice hockey. The Irish have played a number of home games this year at Coveleski Stadium, and attendance there has been a slight im­provement over that at Jake Kline. But the location of the new stadium, downtown South Bend, is not conducive to student support, making it difficult for those without ready access to transportation to see the Irish in action. Murphy doesn't deny that Covele­ski Stadium is a boost for the program, but he stresses the importance ofplaying on campus for the sake of the fans here. 
"I want to play atJake Kline Field," Murphy said. "I want this field to be a place 
"We're not a great ball club by any stretch of the imagi­nation," said Murphy. "Offensively, we've been inconsistent. When we press, we're not very good. Brit when we have a plan and walk. up to the plate with it being loose, relaxed, and confident, then we're fine." 

where 1,500 or 2,000 people can come, sit down, and watch Notre Dame baseball on campus. I want the students to be able to go crazy here and be excited about Notre Dame baseball." 
The excitement is just beginning. As all the hype surrounding the South Bend White Sox subsides, look for the Fighting Irish to provide plenty oftheir own fireworks on theirmarch to the play-offs. Exclaimed an elated Peltier following their 9-run come­back against Detroit, "We're on an all-time high right now. We feel we can't be beat." 
Yes, they've been silent long 
enough; ¦ 
Irish player successfully steals second {left), 
Irish stop potential run at home plate (right) 




In..Depth Survey Findings 
A Comprehensive Analysis of the Student Survey Reveals Different Attitudes Toward Integration and Alcohol Based on Background 
BY ROB HENNIG 
Last November, the student government at the University of Notre Dame sent out a sur­vey to 2000 randomly selected undergraduate students. Close to 1200 completed questionnaires were returned. From these responses, the student senate hoped to achieve a number of objectives. First, the survey wanted to address specific issues which the senate itself and the larger campus was debating. Secondly, it at­tempted to shed some light on the average Notre Dame student's sentiment about social and academic life at Notre Dame as well as what issues should be addressed in the future: Thirdly, . the questionnaire asked questions about the effectiveness of various campus organizations and the most efficient way to reach the student body. Finany, the survey was in tended to provide a data base from which a profile of the Notre Dame student body could be drawn . and which could be updated with annual surveys. SCHOLASTIC magazine has analyzed some of the data and attempted to provide a partial profile of the student social life at Notre Dame. While the results are only preliminary, a number of interesting findings have emerged. Not surprisingly, alcohol was found to be a major factor in the social life at Notre Dame. Almost 63 percent of those sur­veyed said that they were intoxicated once a month or mom, with over 30 percent re­plying once a week or more. Yet, this finding obscured significant variations by 
0 
class, gender, college, GPA, and income. 
Seniors were twice as likely as freshmen to report intoxication of more than once a week. Freshmen were twice as likely as seniors to report never being drunk during the semester at all. This is not altogether surprising since most seniors are of legal drinking age while most freshmen are not. But, even with freshmen, 25 percent admit­ted they were intoxicated either once a week or more than once a week. Further, women drank far less than men. Women were al­most twice as likely to report never being in­toxicated during the semester. 
Business Administration was the number 
one college with regard to alcohol con­sumption, while Arts and Letters was a close second. Both Science and Engineering students trailed farther behind. The major finding with regard to academics and alco­hol, however, was that a student's grade point average wasasignificantfactor in how often he or she reported being drunk. Al­most without exception, the higher the GPA, the lower the incidence of intoxication. 
Family income also had a strong effect on intoxication. Those who reported family incomes of over $100,000 a year were the most likely group to get drunk more than once a week. The least likely group was those with a yearly family incomes of less than $15,000. 
It must be cautioned that there is no compa­rable data for students at other colleges or within the 18 to 22age group to compare with Notre Dame. Some student leaders com­mented on the fact that the figures should not be taken as absolute. Brian Holst, former 
April 28, 1988 



Student Senator, said that alcohol may help does suggest that women feel incorporated perceived as a reflection of the nature of some students interact socially. "You can't into Notre Dame more often than men. Notre Dame as well as of integration being discount that some students may feel inte­Minority students said they felt incorporated dependent upon financial status. grated into the community because they have into Notre Dame less often than whites. This does not mean that less wealthy stu­an opportunity to act socially and one of the Blacks, the most isolated group, reported that dents are discriminated against, according to vehicles ofacting socially could be the use of only 57 percent considered themselves inte-Holst. "I wouldn't say that there is any alcohol," he said. grated memberofthe student body. Asians felt stigma with being a less wealthy student. But 
One may think that, with the high levels of integratedabout 70 percent of the time, while it may be the case that since the students intoxication reported earlier, alcohol would Hispanics believed that they were incorpo-come from a predominantly upper to upper­effect perceptions of integration. This was rated into the student body almost 85 percent middle class backgrounds, those students not found to be the case. Although those who of the time. Overall,justshortof88 percent of who aren't from that background or from reported never being intoxicated had the the students surveyed said they felt like they . different backgrounds may find it difficult to lowest percentage of integration at 83 per­were integrated into the student body. relate to the other students," he said. cent, the rate of drunkenness bore no statisti­Holst said that there has been some changes Paese attributed the trend of integration by cal relationship to feelings of incorporation. from the new Administration to deal with income to thelackoffinancial aidavailable to Getting drunk apparently has no effect on minority concerns. "As the survey identified, create a diverse student body. "The problem whetheronefeelsapartofthecommunityor minorities, especially blacks and homosexu-of financial aid is exclusionary...There is not. als, feel the least integrated. With regard to definitely a clear need for more financial 
Holst cautioned again that these findings minorities, there appears to be an effort by the aid," Paese said. were preliminary, but added, "Students that new Administration to address their concerns. The single most important finding of the don'tdrinkmayfeelintegratedbecausethey But [with] homosexuals, on the other hand, survey with regard to social life, however, don't feel pressure to drink." Mike Paese, there doesn't appear to be any change from was the relatedness of the responses. For Student Body Vice-President, speaking for when Father Hesburgh was president," he example, those respondents who replied that himself and Student Body President Tom said. they had engaged in premarital sexual inter-Doyle, said that student government was course were also likely to report that they evaluating the report by the President's Task dated once a week or more. Those reporting Force on Whole Health and the Use and frequent dating also were more likely to Abuse of Alcohol along with the Report on report being intoxicated once a week or Residentiality. "It hasn't been decided yet if more. Those individuals that responded at a we are going to come out with an offi-higher rate than average that they smoked cialstatement," Paese said. marijuana or took hard drugs. Drug users, in 
Besides alcohol intoxication, a num ber of turn, reported a higher incidence of premari­other factors were checked fortheir signifi-tal sex, with thosesaying they smoked mari­cance upon a student's perception ofintegra-juana more than once a week reporting an tion. For example, although a higher percent-almost40 percent greater rate ofpromiscuity. age of seniors than freshman considered These findings were discovered based
::i:i:r~~£;::~~:f ..____ ::r=t--·•·•·•--·~1:_;11111::;;;;;;1i1ii!"'"<""•·•··--i::--::::::--r-!!--iiiill:;;;;;;illlll;;;;;;···==""' :°E£}Jf!£rr1~f::f,~;:
:_,;t_t_Y_J....IJ__f..a>--•)__ 

the University does a good job of integrating Student government has appointed two with all of the other variables. A chi square freshmen into college life. minority concerns commissioners to address test measures the difference between the A commonly heard complaint around minority needs according to Paese. "Father. expected and observed frequencies of one or campus is that women are not full members Malloy has stated very clearly the need to two variables. For two variables, ifthe differ­of the Notre Dame family. Indeed, Notre increase the number of minority students on ence is large enough, a statistically signifi­Dame has been coeducational for less than 20 campus," said Paese. cant relationship is assumed between the two 
years. Results of the student survey, how-Wealth also played a significant role in feel-variables. For example, for gender and col­ever, cast doubt on the commonly held per-ings of integration. For every category of lege, the difference in the percentage of fe­ception of "female inferiority." Women family income, the higher the yearly income, malesperclasswasfoundtonotdiffersignifi­reported that they felt integrated into the the more likely the student would consider him cantly from the freshman to senior year. But community 90 percent of the time while men or herself to be an integral part of the student the rate of men relative to women preferring saidtheyfeltintegratedonly85percentofthe body. Less than IO percent of the students co-educational dorms was found to vary time. While this does not mean that there is with family incomes of over $100,000 re-significantly, with a higher percentage of no discrimination at Notre Dame or that ported not feeling integrated, while over 31 men versus women preferring co-ed dorms. women are considered equal with men, it percent of those with family incomes below 
$15,000 did not feel integrated. This could be 
¦ 
16 




ADW@)RKS 
THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 
Is PROUD To ANNOUNCE THE APPOINTMENTS OF: 
DANIEL BALDINO MICHAEL SEYMOUR PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
FOR THE 1988-1989 SCHOOL YEAR. 
WE WISH YOU ALL THE BEST OF LUCK IN THE UPCOMING YEAR, AND TO ALL OF OUR FRIENDS WHO WILL BE LEAVING US, WE OFFER OUR HEARTFELT THANKS AND THESE SIMPLE WORDS: 
DON'T QUIT 

When things go wrong as they sometimes will, When the road you're trudging seems all uphill, When the funds are low and the debts are high And you want to smile, but you have to sigh, When care is pressing you down a bit-Rest if you must, but don't quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, As everyone of us sometimes learns, And many a fellow turns about, When he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up though the pace seems slow­You may succeed with another blow. Often the goal is nearer than It seems to a faint and faltering man;
I ~!~~ff~ifiE:fo~~m~~o~ ·1 
~ I~~ s~~:rn:~!r0!a~~e~0~!~fo~~~~~ are, :1~ --<i'<'.) ~ It may be near when it seems afar; \tr <...9.'/.j;O~~ So stick to the fight when you're hardest hit, 
I 


;~{.;;:~ 
-·/.·.x.?,-x.,··.:·.·',,.'',:'.:.,.·,",.'.,"".,''.,''.·.·.,,'.','.··.',,·'.·,l,i,i.l.\.:
It's when things seem worst, that y:on::t quit.
0?d' ~ ~ t:tltt:mrnltl!@W:'!MU%.%.'Umlttm@);.W ,.,-m""°"''·.,·.·"''"w' ,.,. 

WE ALSO THANK THE FOLLOWING CLIENTS FOR MAKING THIS YEAR ADWORKS' MOST SUCCESSFUL YEAR TO DATE. WE ENJOYED WORKING WITH YOU AND HOPE YOU WILL LET ADWORKS SERVE YOU IN THE YEARS TO COME. 
AIESEC Office of Alcohol and 
Drug Education Alpha Epsilon· Delta Alumni Association Alumni-Senior Club American Institute of 
Architecture Students American Lebanese Club Amnesty International An Tosta! Arts & Letters Student 

Advisory Council ND Athletic Department BACCHUS Black Cultural Arts Council Bookstore Basketball Bruno's Pizza Catholic Alumni Club 
of South Bend Cavanaugh Hall The Cellar Center for Social Concerns Chapel Choir Circle K Club College Fellows College of Science ND Communication & Theatre Country Harvester Cystic Fibrosis Foundation The Dorne Elegant Passage ND Engineering School Joint Engineering Council Entrepreneurial Society Faculty Advisory Council Finance Club Flanner Tower Foreign Studies Program ND Glee Club Go Bang Productions Grace Hall Graduate Student Union Hall Presidents Council Hawaii Club ND History Committee Hurnanitas Ichthus Iconographies International Student 
Organization Irish Gardens Joyce Athletic & 
Convocation Center St. Joseph's Bank/Trustcorp Junior Parents' 
Weekend Committees Knights of Columbus Lyons Hall Marketing Club Mateo's Subs Mock Convention Morrissey Loan Fund Morrissey Manor Multicultural Arts Festival Multicultural Executive Council Notre Dame Cinernatheque ND Club of New York City ND Lacrosse Team ND NAACP ND/SMC Republicans Neighborhood Study 
Help Program NISDC Non-Varsity Athletics Oceans Away 
Off-Campus Formal Office of Minority Affairs · Overseas Development 
Network Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Pax Christi People of Praise Club Pre-Law Society ND Rowing Club St. Mary's Music Department Senior Class Senior Formal Committee Ski Team Society of Women Engineers Sociology Club Sophomore Class Sophomore Literary Festival Spiritual Rock Stanford Hall Office of Student Activities Student Alumni 
Relations Group Student Business Board Student Government Student Intervention Team Student Union Board Tae Kwan Do Club Theodore's Toastmasters ND Track & Field Team United Way University Food Services University Hair Stylists Volunteers for the 
Overnight Shelter Walsh Hall WVFI 

THE NOTRE DAME ADVERTISING NETWORK 


Essay 

Academic Excellence and Intellectualism at Notre Dame 
The opinions expressed in the follow­ing essay are solely those of its au­thor. They in no way reflect the opin­ions of Scholastic, the University of Notre Dame, its students, faculty or staff. Daniel Barnes is a sophomore government major. 
BY DANIEL BARNES 
Intellectualism is "the exercise of the intellect," according to The Random House Dictionary. The intellect is "the power or faculty of the mind by which one knows orunderstands; the faculty ofthinking and acquiring knowledge." Academic, in contrast, is defined as "of or pertaining to a school, especially one for higher education." The three are not synonymous. 
Students at Notre Dame come to Notre Dame to learn, yet, they do not_ expect their living and learning environ­ments to be centered on the pursuit of intel­lectual growth. Freshman enter Notre Dame and quickly learn their values from upper­classmen in the stay-hall_ dorms. 
Other factors, such as class size, undermine intellectualism. Notre Dame students are content with dorm life, and the academic life, because they do not value the pursuit ofintellectual thought. The student who does is condemned to frustration amongst his peers at Notre Dame. Notre Dame freshmen are not concerned with the fact that a large gap exists between academic and social life. In the dorms there is tremendous pressure among freshmen to do well in class because parental expecta­tions are high. However, there is also great peer pressure among the freshmen to disen­gage from studies come Friday afternoon and to refrain from discussing class work, ideas, orvalues; namely, anything ofthe mind, until the weekend is over. There is also pressure to "blow off' the pressures ofthe freshmen year by having "drunkfests" in dorm rooms and looking for parties. 
Outside the classroom, stu­dents rarely discuss ideas, values or opinions which are academic or intellectual in nature. There seems to be a pervasive fear ofintellec­tual discussion outside the academic class­room environment. As freshman Dan Moore said, "Outside of the class you don't want intellectual stimulation, there is enough pres­sure in the classroom." Freshmen are not disturbed by the fact that there is very little inter-relatedness between their studies and other aspects of their lives. 
Notre Dame's academic im­provement is restrained by the administration's religious commitment; the University seeks to be more than simply an institute of higher learning. During my two years here, I have seen one overriding goal that the University tries to achieve, character­istics it hopes all students will leave with after they have completed four years of study. It seeks to instill in all students a set ofCatholic values. 
In 1982, the University reiter­ated in the PACE report (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence), that one ofits chief goals is to maintain its Catholic iden­tity. The second goal was to "remain con­scious ofand faithful to our mission in all our actions and decisions." The mission ofNotre Dame in the PACE report is " ... [to be] influ­ential [ with students] in the enrichment of culture, society, and the church." Other uni­versity priorities include "a concern for a Catholic presence among the faculty; [and] a concern for the continued presence of mem-­bers of the Holy Cross Order on the faculty, in the halls, and in the administration ..." and the "University [should] continue to foster a faculty environment in which: committed and dedicated Catholics predominate." The report states that the University "finds itself on the threshold of becoming a great univer­sity, and all our efforts should be directed towards crossing this threshold." 

It is difficult to see how Notre Dame can expect to become a "great univer­sity" without academics being the first prior­ity. 
The administration's policy­making is inextricably entwined with its moral mission-to the detriment ofacadem­ics and intellectualism. Notre Dame's moral priorities stand in the way ofits academic pri­orities, thus, Notre Dame is unable to reach the academic and intellectual levels of our nation's most elite institutions. In residential life there is no academic presence in the living environments of the dorms. 
There is, however, the moral presence of rectors and the rules of du Lac , which exert their presence with full force in Notre Dame's twenty-four residence halls. Indeed, students rarely feel the presence of the Administration in their academic work, save D-F progress reports, but the "Catholic" presence exerts itself upon freshmen as soon as they arrive on campus. 
Hall Staffs try to get to know the uninitiated immediately, handing them thatniftylittlehandbook,duLac (which lays 
out the rules on sex, alcohol and l)arietals), and looking for potentially problematic stu­dents. The administration's concern for moral Catholic behavior quickly becomes evident, but such is not the case with academ­ics or intellectualism. 
The "great universities" culti­vate vigorous academic pursuits which are better than Notre Dame's because that is their primary goal. The elite schools have a primary purpose: to educate students and to promote the pursuit of intellectualism .in 
April 28, 1988 





residential life. Notre Dame has these priori­ties plus the moral one, which it deems most important Thus, as a result of its moral pri­orities, and its lack of equal concern for the academic and intellectual part ofcollege life, Notre Dame is unable to equal the academic excellence ofour nation's most elite colleges and universities. 
Notre Dame must change its policies if it is to become a peer (at the academic and intellectual level) of our nation's first-rate institutions such as The Ivy League schools, the University of Chicago, Oberlin or Stanford. The moral commit­ment. reputable sheepskin and famous ath­letic tradition attract many students to Notre Dame. They do not however, attract the most intellectually motivated or academically disciplined students. 
A different type of student is attracted to Notre Dame. Academics may be part ofhis or her reason for coming here, but the University's reputation and promise to graduate good citizens are greater factors. Many freshmen say they came to Notre Dame to get a "good education," make friends and graduate. Itseems to me that the pursuit ofthe intellect is the number one goal of precious few students. Notre Dame at­tracts students who share Notre Dame's val­ues, and who covet the advantages that the degree's reputation will give them in the job market. 
Most freshmen's academic expectations consist of choosing a suitable, practical major: Few freshmen, when asked what they want to get out of Notre Dame, mention the academic rewards of higher education, to learn to think critically and analytically, to learn to express oneself clearly or to be well-read. They do not expect to be enlightened intellectually through dis­cussion with their peers in the dorms. They, however, do expect to learn from their peers socially. This shows how freshmen attitudes coincide with the goals of the University. 
Itwould appear Notre Dame is stuck at its present academic level, and there is no easy way to improve academics in the classroom, nor a way to foster an atmosphere of intellectualism and academic growth out­side of the classroom. 
I propose one simple, though radical, change that would greatly improve the academic level of all courses and, as a consequence, promote an environment more receptive to intellectualism outside the class­room: No class shall contain more than fif­teen students. Classes larger than fifteen discourage active, academic relationships among students and between students and professors. 
Discussion is an integral com­ponent to serious academic study in any dis­cipline. Discussion between students and professors reinforces learning; the personal experience of thinking critically and formu­lating reactions to new ideas is a process which clarifies one's understanding of those ideas. It is not that students do not learn in larger classes, but rather, that the quality of the learning that takes place in lecture-hall classes is not as good as it would be ifit were taught in a seminar. 
Consider Political Theory (Government 343), a large lecture class re­quired fo.r all Government majors. The rele­vance of studying such a course is that its content challenges and nourishes analytical and critical thinking skills. The way that Political Theory is currently taught (in a lecture-hall with more than one hundred students), defeats the very purpose of such a discipline because of the lack of interaction between students and the professor. It is an exercise in note-taking, not thinking. 
As a result. in such classes stu­dents tend not to be intellectually involved. On the other hand, seminar-sized classes encourage students to take an active interest in the subject and promote intellectualism out of the classroom because they showcase the most interesting aspect of higher educa­tion: discussion between learned and learn­ing people. 
Discussion reinforces learning not only in humanities classes but rather, in classes of all disciplines. Take a marketing class, for example. Is it not the case that comprehending the principles of marketing is better learned in a small class where stu­dents question the material and learn by lis­tening to each other's thoughts? 
Academic quality improves because of the discourse characteristic of small class size. Moreover, such interaction facilitates greater acceptance ofintellectual­ism outside of the classroom. Decreasing class size could produce, over a period of 
time, significant progress towards academic 
excellence in the classroom and students 
might become more receptive to intellectual­
ism outside the classroom as well. 
Students whose goals in col­lege are to become well-educated and to develop their minds intellectually usually do not come to Notre Dame. Notre Dame's phiiosophy and intent is to create a Univer­sity that graduates educated, responsible, well-rounded, Catholic citizens. At this, they · succeed. However, Notre Dame's many lecture-hall classes do not reaffirm the value of learning. Academic achievement (i.e. the grade point average) is stressed at Notre Dame; the value ofthe pursuit ofintellectual enlightenment is not. These things do not have to be juxtaposed, but at Notre Dame 
they tend to be. 
The change I propose can liber­
ate our institution from the academic and 
intellectual stagnation of the status quo; it is 
not the only change that could strengthen in­
tellectualism and academics. 
Consider the residential or­
ganization of the dorms. This should be 
changed because the present system perpetu­
ates the division ofacademics and social life. 
Co-ed dorms, non-stay-hall dorms and a 
greater presence of faculty in the under­
graduates' residential life would be steps in 
the right direction. A student centeror coffee 
shop in which faculty and students interact 
would be a start. Such changes, however, 
cannot occur until the Administration 
reevaluates its priorities. In the past campus 
planners deliberately segregated the acade­
mia from residentiality. Think of the South 
Quad. Academics are isolated to the east 
side, residentiality to the west. 
It is a distinct possibility that 
Notre Dame does not really seek to be a peer 
ofour nations most elite universities, because 
the policy changes required could endanger 
the present type ofCatholicism and morality 
that Notre Dame values so highly. Perhaps 
Notre Dame, if it followed my suggestions, 
would become like Georgetown, where the 
vices of sex, alcohol, and academics domi­
nate the moral restraints of Catholicism. If 
this is the case, I doubt the Administration 
will ever change its priorities-because the 
dangers they pose to religious and moral 
commitments threaten all thatisNotreDame. 
20 


, , 

~:} ' > '. ... ,. • : "" ____, • ' ' 
Live the Tradition Together 
Sub cribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
---------------------------------------------------------.-----------------------­
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name ----------------------­
Address \ _____________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years = $___ 



A Touchy Subject 
At the present time, Notre Dame has no specific policy statement with regard to sexual harassment. 
BY ANDY HILGER 

F 
or "Beth," who graduated from Notre Dame last year with a de­
gree from the College of Arts and 
Letters, a conference in one of her professor's office sticks out in her mind. 
"We were talking about the course when all of the sudden he started talking about some bizarre sexual ritual of some far Eastern religious types-something really strange and 
I: 
out of the blue. 

"All of the sudden, I noticed he was really close to me. Then a secretary knocked on the . door and nothing weird happened after that." 

Sexual harassment is considered to be any form of misconduct which "undermines the integrity of both employee and student rela­tionships," according to the Kent State Uni­versity Position Statement on SexualHarass­ment. "No employee or student-either male or female-should be subjected to unsolicited and unwelcome sexual overtures or conduct, eitherverbalorphysical."WhileNotreDame certainly does not condone the aforemen­tioned behavior, the University currently has no such specific policy statement that prohib­its sexual harassment. 
In one incident, reported by a junior in the College of Business Administration, a stu­dent was speaking with her professor about rescheduling an exam in order to accommo­date her travel plans. She was making this request quite some time before the test date. The teacher responded to her inquiry by saying, "Why are you thinking so far ahead? You may be in Saint Joseph's maternity ward by then." 
The recently issued Report on Marriage, Family, and Other Life Commitments ad­dressed situations such as the one described above. The task force appointed by Univer­sity President Edward Malloy, C.S.C., rec­ommended that Notre Dame should: "de­velop a policy statement which defines and prohibits sexual harassment; develop a for­mal complaint procedure for students, staff,,.· 11111r--....... and faculty; and publish both the policy and the complaint procedure in Du Lac and in the faculty and staff handbooks." The report later called for the University to include "sex" and "sexual orientation" as part of its nondiscrimination policies. 
The Task Force'justified the need for such a policy based on information generated through a phone survey. They discovered that fifty percent of the students that they sur­
veyed knew of a student who had been sexu­ally harassed by a fellow student. In addition to this, ten percent of those surveyed knew of a student who had been sexually harassed by a faculty member and over six percent knew of a student who had been sexually harassed by a teaching assistant. 
These numbers are actually very low when compared to a 1986 study done by Indiana University's Office of Women's Affairs. This study found that twenty to thirty percent of the female students at a cross-section of 310 colleges said they had been sexually harassed by a faculty member. Despite the high number of instances, only three percent of the students actually filed official com­plaints. 
Neither the University of Notre Dame Fac­ulty Handbook nor.QuLac.presents a specific complaint procedure that a victim of sexual harassment should follow. The Faculty Handbook makes some vague references as to how a situation which involves sexual har­assment would be handled. Included among the reasons associated with Dismissal for a Serious Cause is "continual serious disre­
spect or disregard for the Catholic character of the University." Another statement which could encompass sexual harassment appears in Section 2, 
Academic Freedom and Associate1..' Respon­sibilities. This states that one of th<;; ;,rin­ciples of academic freedom supported at the University is "protection, in the course of one's conduct, utterances, and work, of the basic aims of the University and of its good name." 
''We cannot tolerate any remarks in jest, or said seriously, of a sexist nature," said Pro­vost Timothy O'Meara. The procedure that he, as provost, would follow involves asking somebody "to get all sides of the picture and make a specific recommendation." In the past, Sister John Miriam Jones, associate provost, has been the one chosen to make this recommendation. 
At Notre Dame, although incidents of bla­tant sexual harassment in the form of unwel­come sexual attention are uncommon, or at least unreported, some students report inap­propriate comments. One professor in par­ticular is infamous for jesting remarks about 
22 



the personal lives of his students. In one instance this professor questioned his class as to who owned Japanese products. When one girl did not raise her hand, he responded, "What? Don't you have one of those Japa­nese vibrators?" 
The student who reported this incident, however, emphasized the harmless intent of the remarks. "Many of the comments are meant to emphasize the historical aspect of prejudices." 
That professor, however, does not have the market cornered on what could beconsidered overtly personal remarks. One junior relates her experience with a professor. "I had a question about what he expected from pa­pers. So !asked, 'What do you want, a lot of critical analysis or personal interpretation?' Clearly, personal literary interpretation. He answered, 'Don't tell me in the paper how much a certain poem makes you feel like you want to make love.' I really don't think he meant anything by it, but it made me a little nervous anyway;" 
A 1986 U.S. Supreme Court decision that punished a business for sexual harassment by its supervisors has prompted many colleges to reevaluate their policies with regard to sexual harassment This decision meant that colleges could be held liable for their admin­istrators' or faculty members' affairs, even if the administration was unaware of the rela­tionship. 
Temple, Harvard, and Brown Universities as well as the Universities of Delaware and Pennsylvania are examples of colleges that have imposed outright bans on faculty-stu­dent sex. Meanwhile, faculty at the nine campus University of California system ve­toed such a ban in 1987, citing worries about letting employers-colleges-infringe on "consenting relationships." 
Villanova University philosophy professor John Immerwahr, who initiated a proposal which deals with the issue of sexual harass­ment at Villanova, said that a specific policy and procydure would "emphasize a university's commitment to creating an envi­ronment where men and women could work and study in a professional way.'' He also stated that a policy and procedure would "protect the rights of the-alleged victims and alleged perpetrators of sexual harassment." 
His proposal has been with Villanova's in which no decision has been made. Rev. Robert J. Martin, O.S.A., assistant to the president at Villanova noted the importance ofsuch a policy when he said that people who may have complaints would "have well-de­fined procedures to follow through on their perceived grievance." 

"I do not think that [inappropriate faculty behavior] is a serious problem atNotre Dame but, in any society, something like that could occur from time to time," said O'Meara. 
One Notre Dame sophomore recalled a case of inappropriate faculty behavior when she told of hearing one of her professors tell a classmate "If you dyed your hair blonde, you'd get dates." In the same class, the girl remembered that a female student had said that she didn't own a dictionary. "How are you going to be a good secretary without one?" was the joking response of the profes­sor. In both instances the cases were not reported. 
The Notre Dame Task Force expressed a fear that incidents of sexual harassment "frequently go unreported because the victim may fear the ramifications of making a complaint or may not know the appropriate person with whom to register a complaint." 
The incidents are not simply isolated to situations involving male faculty members and female students. One sophomore dated his teacher on more than one occasion. He described her as "very friendly" to him as well as some ofthe other students in the class. She approached him with talk about her class and her teaching methods. The conversation progressed and she eventually gave him her phone number asking him to call her some time to go out to the bars. The student described her as "very open" and added that he was not the only student that she had seen. 
The Task Force recommendation cited other compelling reasons for instituting a policy, such as the fact that, "by promulgat­ing a policy which defmes the types ofbehav­ior which are unacceptable and, by establish­ing a formal grievance procedure for the victim, the University strongly discourages the behavior and calls attention to the adverse effects that such behavior can have on both students and employees. It also assists in limiting the University's liability in cases involving allegations of sexual harassment." 
The Task Force emphasized that, currently, complaints, both from students and employ­ees, are dealt with seriously. O'Meara ech­oed this sentiment "There are various ways ofreprimanding a teacher. I think the [past] reprimands were in proportion [to the of­fense]. I would say that it's notjust a bawling out," he said. 
The Kent State University Position State­ment on Sexual Harassment points out that "sexual harassment does not refer to occa­sional compliments of a socially acceptable nature. It refers to behavior which is not welcome, which is personally offensive, which debilitates morale, and which there­fore interferes with either individual or group effectiveness." 
Beth, whose story was explained earlier, feels that the incident interfered with her potential performance. "It was sort of strange for me in class after that. He was one of those professors who liked to socialize, have class in bars and that sort of thing. I didn't feel as comfortable staying late as someofthe other students did. It was uncom­fortable and I didn't think I did as well in the class because of it." 
Not only does Kent State clearly spell out what entails sexual harassment, but it also provides a comprehensive Administrative Policy and Procedure Regarding Com­plaints of Discrimination.. This presents a ''Pre-Complaint Counseling Procedure" and a "ComplaintofDiscrimination Procedure," which includes an outline of general proce­dure, time limits, and specific procedural steps. 
"Both O'Meara and the Task Force empha­size that there are not an extremely large number of perpetrators at Notre Dame. "In my 10 years as Provost, this office has not been involved in more than about a dozen instances," said O'Meara. "Often [an inci­dent] is handled in the dean's office or the department where these things occur," he continued. "We have no policy because there are so few cases. You can't build a policy on the basis of a few cases." 
The Task Force emphasized the fact that "an individual perpetrator frequently subjects many people to harassment. Therefore, while we are confident that there are not an extraordinarily large number of individuals who demean others in this way, the existence 
ofonly a few is reason enough to take action." 
II
lawyers for close to two years, a time period 
April 28, 1988 



Final Word 


As the sun rises early on the morn­ing ofWednesday, May 18, most of the students of Notre Dame 
will be happily settling into their summer routines: maybe summer jobs, permanent jobs, a lazy few months in the sun, or more school. Most of the students, but not all. For a few, that morning will mark the beginning ofa summer that will be one that they will not forget. That day, on the shores of Ireland, twenty-five members of the Notre Dame Folk Choir will be landing to begin their first­ever liturgical workshop tour. 
The idea was introduced a year ago when Mr. Steven Warner, director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, traveled to the Emerald Isle to study Irish music. He posed the idea of a tour for the entire group upon returning to school in August and the suggestion was readily and enthusiastically received. A plan which started as an unlikely dream has blos­somed into a reality brought about by many months of phone calls, research, successful connections and pages of correspondence. There were many occasions over the past months, however, when the status of the trip was shaky and had to be re-evaluated. There always seemed to be problems that were too eager to manifest themselves: unforeseen expenses, fluc'tuating airline prices, long­distance contacts, and a temperamental American dollar. However, through perse­verance and dedication, the choir was able to sort through thedifficultiesandsolvemostof 

I· their problems. 
i: 
The choir has amassed great support for its tour from the University of Notre Dame, as well as from humanitarian agencies, such as the American-Ireland Fund, and Church organizations, such as the Catholic Youth 
I 
Singin' A'Broad 
By Elizabeth Crummy 
Council ofDublin. The latter will be provid­ing the members with.. hospitality for their stay in the capital city. The Catholic Youth Council was also primarily responsible for the Choir's itinerary that includes concerts and liturgies at Douiske Abbey and Trinity College, as well as Saint Patrick's and Christ Church Cathedrals in Dublin. The tour will not be all work, though. The choir plans to experience some genuine Irish hospitality at a medieval banquet at B unratty Castle and an evening at the Abbey Theater in Dublin. They will also be honored to have an audi­ence with the Archbishop of Dublin. 
Eight years ago, no one could have imag­ined such extravagant plans for the small ensemble. The Folk Choir was founded in 1980 and has almost tripled in size from that point to its present enrollment oftwenty-five vocalists and instrumentalists, including both graduate and undergraduate students. The director of the choir is Mr. Steven Warner, who received his Master's degree in Theology /Liturgy from the University of Notre Dame. In addition to directing the Folk Choir, Mr. Warner also accompanies with guitar and harp, and writes most ofthe psalm­ody for the choir, some of which has been nationally published. . 
The Choir's main responsibility to the University is providing the music for the 
12: 15 p.m. liturgies at Sacred Heart Church, a service which is widely attended through­out the school year by many Notre Dame students, faculty, and residents of the South Bend community. In addition, the Choir provides many of the cantors for the daily masses that are celebrated at the church. The Folk Choir is very active at special liturgies that are celebrated throughout the year in-eluding Freshmen Orientation, Junior Par ents' Weekend, Senior Last Visit to th Grotto, and the Confirmation Mass for candi dates from the RCIA program. 

During the seasons of Advent and Lent extra music and ministry is provided to th Notre Dame community through penanc services and special liturgies such as Ho! Thursday, Easter Sunday, and Ash Wednes day. Two times a year, the Choir has retreats These are usually opportunities for spiritua reflection, but they have also been known a. times of inspiration and musical composi lion. In addition, the group also plays a liturgies at many of the dedications of ne buildings hereon campus. Examples includ the recent dedication of LaFortune Studen Center; the renovated Riley Hall of Art an Design, the Eck Tennis Pavilion, and in th next several weeks, the dedication liturgy o the Loftus Sports Center. 
The Folk Choir has become known out side of the immediate Notre Dame commu nity in recent years. It provides music fo some of the weddings that occur at Sacre Heart church, and it has recently become · touring group that provides liturgical con certs and music for liturgies that embrace· truly ecumenical spirit Plans for the group' first international tour are nearing comple tion now. The choir must complete its hecti semester and survive an anxious waitin period before embarking on the trip that wil be the "pot of gold" at the end of their Iris rainbow. BON VOYAGE! 


24 




THE 5 SE.CRE.TS OJ: GRAD SC.HOOL SUCCESS 
[) DO t-JOT ANNOY 
TI-\E PROFESSOR. 
(DBE. CONSIST&JTLY MEDIOCRE. 
@ AVOID AN~T\-\lf\/6 5MACk!N6 OF ORl61NALIT~. 
@) DO E.XAC.TLl.j 
WHAT ~OU 
ARE. TOLD. 
® s-roP RE.ADrNG THIS C.ARTOOl\l RIGHT NOW AtJD 6ET BACK -ro_ woei--. 
IT((! 


C'MON OUTSIDE:! 
WE'R.'c. Pt.A~r,J' SOTTBAI-L.' 
DQ.1.-J\c:1.J' BEE/2.! HA\/1,J' A PlC.IJIC( 

l"Ht StMPLE WAY TO AVO\O THE STOMACH­CHUR~ING AGONY OF· HAVING TO FlNlS\-\ YOUR 
THESlS 



SL--~'&'-'i£':.ili.__...\tLL~-.. 5...----~-~ ~a>::t;:;,.Utwc @tUtiL« Ji&.3S.Wt&. •f.,U½.A?/½~.,Ci;i.2!:i' 


