OCTOBER 27, 1950
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 8
Monster Rally Kindles Campus Tonight
Crowds Will Gather About Blazing Bonfire
A spontaneous, independent effort started by a group of Dillon Seniors to whip up campus spirit for tomorrow’s game has resulted in frenzied preparations for the biggest Notre Dame pep rally in years.
The rally will be staged tonight around a bonfire on the open fields south of the tennis courts. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., -vice-president of the University, Captain Jerry Groom and Coach Frank Leahy will speak.
Signs, posters, mottoes and a torchlight parade will help lift Irish feelings to a fever pitch before the actual rally. At 7 p.m., the combined varsity and Freshman bands will lead the parade around the campus and then to the rally site.	.
Father Hesburgh, the office of Student Welfare and Coach Leahy g:ve the super-rally idea their complete support. Over 400 signs and posters were printed and distributed by the Dillonites and other student volunteers. Dillon blossomed forth with a hall decoration and other ’ halls promised to follow suit.
Rev. Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., main-tainence director, has supplied the fuel for torches and bonfire. A public-address system will be set up for the speakers at the rally.
The last time a bonfire rally was staged at Notre Dame, prior to the ’45 Illinois game, the Irish went in underdogs and won.
Speaking on WND’s “Interview of the Week” on Tuesday night, Dick McDonald, a member of the original Dillon group, explained how the thing started. His _ cohorts thought that the campus needed something special in the way of rallies for tomorrow’s crucial contest. They began making signs and took the bonfire suggestion to University authorities.
He stated that both the rally organizers and the University hoped that ND men would not stage any impromptu rallies off-campus. Irish rooters, he said, will need all the noise and energy they '	can muster for the impending battle-of-
-	the-year in Notre Dame Stadium to-
v morrow.
i Oct. 27, 1950
Leahy Legions’ Victory Spirit Bums High; Michigan State Seeks Revenge From Irish
By JACK ECONOMOU, ’52
Swarming down from the North, Michigan State’s Spartans will attempt to gain revenge for their past defeats at the hands of Notre Dame.
Some 56,000 bystanders will jam the local battlefield at 1:30 p. m. tomorrow to witness this 18th encounter of the two nearby rivals.
Coach Biggie Munn and his charges would gladly give the Irish a shove in a downward direction, for they too well remember bitter afternoons of .hopeless defeats at Notre Dame hands. The Spartans have revenged two of their three 1949 defeats, and they are now reaching for the ripest plum of them all.
Gone are the Chandnoises, the Masons, and the Bagdons from the ’49 squad which scored 21 points against the nation’s champs, but returning from this same breed are Don Coleman, 178 pounds, whom the Irish voted the best opposing lineman, and Sonny Grande-lius, less spectacular, but equally as re
Spartan Backfield Stars
Ev Grandelius	Bob Ciolek
liable as his All-American predecessor.
Sharing the tackle duties with Coleman will be Willy Horrell, a devastating 215 pounder. The guard posts are handled by John Yocca and John Tobin, a pair which has understudied the Mason-Bag-don duet for three seasons. Dick Tam-buro, a sophomore who starred in the rugged western Pennsylvania prep loop, will handle the pivot chores.
The men from Lansing boast of the flashiest pair of ends in collegiate grid circles. Junior- Bill Carey inaugurated the 1950 season with a 20 point performr ance (two touchdowns, a field goal, and five extra points) against Oregon State. Last year Carey caught 26 passes for 523 yards and eight touchdowns. Besides his grid exploits, Carey is a stellar basketball center and the leading Spartan shotputter. At right end is Hank Mina-rik, a starter for the past two seasons on both offensive and defensive elevens. Last spring this 6’ 1”, 23-year-old Se-
(Continued on Page 25)
SMEAR THE SPARTANS
Local NFCCS Plans Two New Projects
Having successfully promoted student participation in the recent Rosary Rally, the new apostolic chapter of the campus NFCCS council has turned its attention to two future projects, a general retrea'; for all Catholic N.D. students and a large-scale May Day ceremony.
At a meeting this week, the group, a federation of campus religious organizations, discussed various suggestions for these prospective events and decided to submit their ideas to the University administration at the NFCCS council’s next meeting.
If the projects are approved, work on the necessary arrangements will begin immediately, with the hope that good speakers can be obtained through quick action.
The council is also considering the possibility of extending the scope of the May Day ceremonies beyond the limits of a campus activity, by contacting the officials of the diocese and other schools represented in the NFCCS.
Meanwhile, the apostolic wing of the
campus NFCCS is working to complete its organization. The chapter consists at present of the Liturgy Club, YCS, Third Order of St. Francis, and the Knights of Columbus. Each of these groups is to submit an outline of its plans for the year to the council, elect a representative to the NFCCS chapter, and acquaint its members with the aims of the new council.
This last step will be accomplished by having a campus NFCCS executive speak at a meeting of each club.
In the future, the NFCCS intends to set up similar chapters to include organizations in the fields of science, communications, and international relations.
Draft Authorities Clarify Collegian Induction Rule
An attempt was made by National Selective Service headquarters last week to clarify the ruling on the postponement and deferment of college students.
In case a local board refuses to postpone the induction of men now enrolled and making satisfactory progress in a full-time course, institutional authorities
must immediately contact the local and request clarification with the State director.
Postponement of induction until the end of the academic year is b"sed on actual enrollment and satisfactory progress in the course. Rank in the upper •50% of the class is not a requirement.
Notre Dame students called for induction must contact university authorities immediately if they wish a postponement grant. Because of the great number of requests already made to the Office of Academic Affairs on the matter, students may also make their requests to the dean of the college in which they are enrolled.
Profs to Attend Meeting At Social Science Academy
Several of the faculty of the College cf Commerce plan to attend the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Social Science next weekend in Muncie, Ind.
Mr. Thomas T. Murphy will preside over the Business Administration section, and Mr. George S. Wallace’s treatise, “The International Monetary Fund After Five Years,” will be read and discussed.
The Campus Fish Derby
ND angler Dick Sheridan patiently tries to surpass the accomplishment of . . .
. . . Jack Cassidy, who has caught the largest fish to date in the current Notre Dame Fish Derby. As Jack holds his catch, Father Baldwin checks its 13 12 inches.
SPILL THE SPARTANS--------------
th
10
The Scholastic
SWAMP THE SPARTANS
’ Surveys of Libraries To Begin Next Week
A survey of the University libraries will be undertaken by Dr. Louis Wilson of the University of North Carolina ; and Mr. Frank Lundy of the University ; of Nebraska, from Nov. 1 to 12.
I During their stay at Notre Dame, the surveyors will interview members of the University administration, the Deans of the Colleges, department heads, faculty
I members, the members of the library staff and a group of representative students.
Dr. Wilson was librarian of the Uni. versity of North Carolina from 1901 until 1932. He served as Director of the Graduate Library School at the University of Chicago for ten years and then returned to North Carolina as Professor ■ of Library Administration. He is the ; author of numerous books and articles on reading and library work and has conducted library surveys in many colleges throughout the country.
Mr. Lundy received his early library experience at the University of Arizona and the University of California. From 1936 until 1939 he was Head Cataloger of the William Andrew Clark Memorial Library of the University of California at Los Angeles. He served as head of the acquisitions department of the University of California for three years more. Lundy has been Director of Libraries at the University of Nebraska since 1944.
Student Lite Highlights In Tomorrow’s Telecast
The story of student life at the University of Notre Dame will be highlighted in the third of a series of five films at 1 p.m., tomorrow over the Dumont Television Network. Featured in the third film, which will immediately precede the telecast of the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game, wi’l he a typical day in the life of Notre Dime students.
Subsequent films on Notre Dame wi’l be televised immediately preceding the telecast of the Navy and Pittsburgh games, Nov. 4 and Nov. 11. Esch o" the films will tell a different story of No’re Dame life and accomplishments in the field of higher education.
Included in the television programs is a section in each film devoted to the universities which constitute Notre Dame’s
football opponents in the five home games. An interview between the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President o: Notre Dame, and the presidents of the universities of the five opposing teams also is a prominent feature of each pregame television show.
The films, which were prepared on the campus by a professional movie staff engaged by the Dumont Television Network, are shown on Dumont affiliated television stations which also carry th? live telecasts of the five Notre Dame home football games.
Cotillion Two Weeks Away As Soph Ticket Sales Boom
As ticket sales for the Sophomore Cotillion moves into the final week, less than 100 bids must still be sold to re~ch the dance committee’s goal of 500. Tick-
Co-chairmen McNulty and Kelley
ets for “An Evening in Paris” can be purchased in the lobby of the Dining Hall, as well as in the Sophomore halls, for $5.50.
Those who have yet to order their bids will not be able to secure football tickets for the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game on Nov. 11, the day after the dance. A final count shows that 680 foo’ball duca s have been sold to couples attending the dance.
Tuxedos may still be rented at a reduced price at Logan’s, 107 N. Main St. in South Bend. A total of 75 tuxes have already been ordered.
Because only a few rooms remain
available at the LaSalle Hotel, reservations must be made by tomorrow. This also can be done at the Dining Hall or in the Soph halls.
With the Cotillion only two weeks away, the decorations committee met this week to complete their plans for converting the Palais Royale ballroom into something that looks, as well as sounds, French. If the committee’s efforts are successful, November 10 will really seem like “An Evening in Paris.”
Blue Circle to Schedule Freshman Class Elections
A full schedule of activities is on the Blue Circle’s agenda for this year. Plans include the Freshman class elections, and a field day of athletic events for the Frosh in the Spring. Blue Circle men, as before, will serve as ushers for various University activities. Also on tap is a complete compilation of Notre Dame traditions and customs.
Among past services directed by the Blue Circle are Freshman orientation and guidance talks. Members of this organization canvassed residence halls for the Freedom Crusade, and distributed ballots for the Student Council elections.
Each football week end they set up information booths and conduct tours of the campus, while Friday night pep rallies are also conducted under Blue Circle auspices. The s-fety light over the well-known Dixie Highway crossing is still another result of their activity.
Econ. Round Table Meets
At a recent meeting at Rosie’s four new members were accepted by the Economic Round Table. They are: Paul Coogan and Bill Dargan of the College of Arts and Letters, and Frank Be’ter, Glen Haney and Bill Anhut of the College of Commerce.
Following a spaghetti dinner the Club heard a paper by Jack Maher on proportional representation. There remain a few openings for the semester. Prospective members should contact Jerry Kerns at 202 Dillon.
• From the St. Mary’s Static: “New members were initiated into the W.A.A. on Sept. 18. After the paddling machine was demonstrated and the oath of membership administered, a marshmallow roast brought the evening to a close.”
And so to bed.
SMASH THE SPARTANS----------
Oct. 27, 1950
11
SMEAR THE SPARTANS
Three Thousand Join In Freedom Crusade
“Help lift the Iron Curtain everywhere!” With this thought in mind, over 3000 Notre Dame students and faculty members recently enlisted in the National Crusade for Freedom. The Crusade, headed by General Lucius D. Clay, is a mobilization of millions of Americans in a battle against Communist propaganda and aggression.
The campaign conducted on the campus was under the direction of Frank Crovo, a Senior in the College of Commerce. A committee of 12 Blue Circle members assisted Crovo in contacting students who wished to sign the Freedom Scroll. These signatures are among the many millions that were flown to Berlin to be enshrined in the foundation of the Freedom Bell.
In a message to college and university students, General Clay urged all to affirm loudly and unmistakably to the peoples of the world our belief in freedom for all men. “The people of the world,” he said, “must understand the ideals of our freedom, if we are to secure lasting peace.”
Concerning the local campaign, Chairman Crovo stated: “The some 3000 signatures received indicate a realization on the part of the student body of the grave importance of a crusade such as this.” He further added, “I would like to thank all those who in any way assisted in the administration of this campaign.”
Pre-Meds Plan Semi-Formal Science Ball for December I
Forgetting their slide rules and lab reports, scalpels and bunsen burners, for one night at least, the future doctors, chemists, biologists, and other scientist; of the University of Notre Dame will proceed to relax and enjoy themselves at the first College of Science Ball to be held Dec. 1, at the Indiana Club.
Music will be supplied by Gene Hull and his Lettermen from 9 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Car permissions and 1:30 a.m. residences have been obtained. The dance is semi-formal and no flowers will be permitted.
Inviting all members of the College of Science, including undergraduates, graduate students and faculty are cochairmen Don Sondag and Bob Beh. Their dates, who will be co-queens, will be announced later. The Ball is being sponsored by the Aesculapian club.
Freedom Crusade chairman Frank Crovo and Bill Kelly watch Pete Green as he adds his name to the Freedom Scroll. This scroll is now enshrined in Berlin, Germany.
Four Students Attend NFCCS Press Meet; Editor of 'America' Addresses Workshop
Four Notre Dame men represented the University at the National Federation of Catholic College Students’ second national Press Workshop at St. Joseph’s College, near Rensselaer, Ind., Saturday and Sunday. They were NFCCS officers Jim Garvin, John O’Connell, and Don Carbone and Scholastic editor Ken Thoren. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, accompanied the delegation.
Under the theme of “The Communica-. tions Media in the Lay Apostolate,” the workshop consisted of three general assemblies, six panel discussions an 1 a meeting of the National Press Commission.
A keynote address by Rev. Robert C. Hartnett, S.J., editor of the Catholic weekly America, launched the workshop Saturday afternoon. Othei- speakers at the assemblies were Mr. Tom Wainright, president of the Gabriel Guild of Chicago, and Mr. B. Patrick Kelly, director of Catholic Publications, Inc. Mr. Wainwright described how specialized Catholic
Action can be carried out through such groups as the Gabriel Guild, an organization of leading Catholic journalists in the Chicago area.
Mr. Kelly spoke of the need for greater circulation of Catholic magazines in the home and in the colleges, and outlined plans for a February campaign to promote subscriptions to such periodicals on NFCCS college campuses.
Conducted by six members of the Gabriel Guild, the panel talks covered such fields of communication as news and feature writing, advertising, public relations, news services, college journalism, and radio writing.
At the Press Commission meeting on Sunday morning after Mass, Chairman John Bassett introduced the new chairman of the Decent Literature Campaign of the NFCCS, Dan Feld. The aim of the campaign is to remove lewd publications from the country’s newsstands.
The workshop was brought to a close Sunday afternoon by Rev. Joseph F. Scheuer, C.PP.S., moderator of the Press Commission.
SPILL THE SPARTANS—-------
12
The Scholastic
----------SWAMP THE SPARTANS
f Noted Soprano Sings Here on November 7
Scientists Gather for Physics Seminar;
Drs. Fermi and Snell Discuss Atomic Studies
Lilly Windsor, lyric soprano of the Rome Royal Opera, will appear at Washington Hall on Nov. 7. The recital will start at 8 p.m.
Miss Windsor, a guest artist under the auspices of Concert and Lecture Series, is the first American in 30 years to receive a contract with the Royal Opera. A 25-year-old native of Hawthorne, N. Y. she was working for §10 a week in her father’s grocery store when discovered. Now, according to De Tijd, an Amsterdam news paper “Lilly Win’s r commands a magnificent radiating voice, majestic vocal technique ... a rarely clear and beautiful sounding voice.”
The program:
I
Let Me Wander Not Unseen—Recita-
tive ..................    Handel
0 Let the Merry Bells Ring Round. Aria Non so pili cosa son, Aria from The
L Marriage of Figaro .........Mozart
Alleluja ............-........Mozart
.	II
Widmung (Dedication) ......Schumann
Der Nussbaum (The Walnut Tree)......
........................ Schumann
Neue Liebe (New Love) ..—Mendels-
sohn
Frith lingslied (Spring Song)......... .........................................Mendelssohn
III
Ah! Fors’ e Lui—
Aria from 1st act of “Traviata” ...........................   Verdi
IV
Air Champetre................Poulenc
Sylvie ........................Faure
Fantoches................... Debussy
V
Norina’s Aria—“Don Pasquale” .....................   Donizetti
VI
Let My Song Fill Your Heart ......................    Charles
Summertime ..............Gershwin
Csardas ..................Strauss
• From the McMaster University Silhouette:
“In case 19 Melville St. would be missed by those tired and happy co-eds, a pair of bright red pyjamas was thoughtfully tied to the front door light to flag them in from the formal.”
Why not a bright-red co-cd?
Over one hundred of the most noted scientists in the Mid-West were gathered together at Notre Dame for last Saturday’s inter-university physics seminar.
Professor Enrico Fermi
These seminars are arranged periodically to provide for an exchange of ideas between the staffs of the many universities currently engaged in nuclear research. In addition, each meeting affords an opportunity to hear one or two
Doctor Arthur Snell
special guest speakers report on some recent innovations in the field.
The first speaker at Saturday’s gathering was Professor Enrico Fermi, the Italian-born physicist and Nobel Prizewinner, who played one of the leading roles in the wartime development of the atomic bomb. It was Professor Fermi who performed the famous experiment under the stands of Chicago’s Stagg Field in 1942, when he successfully operated the world’s first self sustained uranium pile. This experiment paved the way for the atom bomb, by proving for the first time, that a nuclear chainreaction was possible.
Speaking on the “Statistical Theory of Meson Production,” Professor Fermi outlined his latest theory on the origin of the short-lived atomic particles known as mesons. This statistical theory deals with the manner in which mesons may be formed by collisions between high energy ' nuclear particles.
The second speaker on the program was Dr. Arthur Snell, chief physicist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Entitled “Recent Work on the Decay of the Neutron,” Dr. Snell’s talk described some recent experiments, performed at Oak Ridge, which investigated the transformation of neutrons into protons.
Before the meeting adjourned, plans were made to hold a similar seminar at the University of Indiana, later on in the year.
Manion Appoints Officers For Moot Court Association
Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law has appointed five fledgling barristers as officers in the new Moot Court Association, designed to provide greater experience in the field of actualcourtroom work. Bruno Bernabei has been named director. Other officers are Henry Shine, executive director; Rex O’Connor, senior chancellor; Milt Farley, junior chancellor; and Charles Perrin, publicity director.
Approximately 60 men from the College of Law are now members of the association. Cases have been given out for the preparation of presentations.
SMASH THE SPARTANS----------
Oct. 27, 1950
13
Father Richard Grimm places the Blessed Sacrament on the Rosary Rally's altar.
Family Rosary Crusade
Pictures by HAL MUNGER, ’51
Text by AL LAPORTE, ’51 and BERRY REECE, ’54
"Hail Mary_____" Father Peyton asks for Our Lady's aid before his Rally talk.
Outlined against a gray October sky the most powerful team ever to perform for Notre Dame assembled in the Stadium last Sunday afternoon. They had come to begin a victory march which will make 40 games seem little indeed. They’re out to conquer the world.
This Blue and Gold host, some 26,000 men, women, and children, came armed with only two weapons—their rosaries and a love of Notre Dame—Our Lady. Their only play was-prayer.
Leading this invincible Notre Dame team was one of Oui- Lady’s own, Rev. Patrick Peyton, c.S.C. As Irish as his native County Mayo, Father Peyton is the national director of the Family Rosary Crusade. His return Sunday to the school where he was graduated 13 years ago was as an All-American alumnus.
The marked contrast between the pomp and color of the rally’s procession and the simple message given by Father Peyton hit home. Throughout all the preliminaries, Our Lady’s personal crusader quietly said his prayers, fingering a Rosary. When he rose to speak, the pomp
and color faded a bit, leaving this sincere, deeply intense apostle of Mary alone.
Celebrating his silver jubilee, Fort Wayne's Bishop Noll receives a mitre.
As he spoke, Father Peyton seemed to gain power. He had asked for Our Lady’s help before beginning the address, and she answered him. He told of her help to him, told of her presence in his family’s home in Ireland, told of her promise to all who sought her aid. He pleaded for family devotion to Mary and pleaded eloquently.
“The greatest assurance Christ can have that a man and woman are sensitive to His wishes and His law is for that man and woman to kneel at the end of the day to recognize His existence,” declared the priest.
In answering his self-asked question, “What does the Rosary mean to the Blessed Mother?” Father Peyton stated it primarily means that we are helping her fulfill the responsibility Christ gave her as He was dying on the cross: namely to be our mother as well as His and to watch over us.
“She is failing in that responsibility,” declaimed Father Peyton. “The Devil is winning. You don’t need a priest before
Two scenes of the dignitaries at the Rally: part of the processio n of clergy and Msgr. John Sabo opening with Holy Year prayer.
14
The Scholastic
Stadium last Sunday afternoon. The Family Rosary Rally packed the home stands. Overcast skies and cold winds didn't keep 26,000 crusaders away from Notre Dame
you to tell you that. You can see it everywhere. Husband and wife are ceasing to put their faith in God.”
Every day malicious enemies seek to break up the home. They seek to defeat God’s handiwork. The Family Rosary is the best weapon against these enemies, asserted the apostle of the Rosary Crusade.
“We cannot approach Christ through purer hands or in a more perfect way than through His own mother,” stated Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne, who nine years ago ordained Father
Doctor Dryden to Deliver McCue Memorial Lecture
Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, supervisor of one of the world’s foremost aviation research centers, will deliver the 1950 Martin McCue Memorial Lecture on Nov. 9 in the College of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Dryden, who since 1947 has keen director of Aeronautical Research on the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Washington, D. C., will speak on “The Pathway from Vision to Accomplishment in Aeronautics.” His d’s-cussion will be founded on more than 30 years of pioneer experimentation and research in the field, during which time he held important posts in aerodynamics and mechanics with the United States Bureau of Standards.
A personal friend of Wilbur* and Or
Peyton to the priesthood.
Explaining the Catholic devotion to Mary through the Rosary, Bishop Noll stated that no devotion is more solidly based on Biblical foundations than this. He then set about to trace the origin of the various spiritual prayers of the Rosary.
Father Peyton’s Rosary team now numbers over one million families in Canada. He is seeking more members here and throughout the world, enough members to spread the Family Rosary and win Notre Dame’s greatest victory.
ville Wright, Dr. Dryden has been honored frequently by his colleagues in science for vital contributions to aviation studies. Besides the Reed Award of the Institute for Aeronautical Sciences, he has been awarded the Presidential Certificate of Merit and the Medal of Freedom. He is currently a fellow in the Royal Aeronautical Society and editor of the Journal for Aeronautical Sciences.
The Martin McCue Lectures in Engineering are sponsored annually at Notre Dame in honor of Professor* Martin J. McCue, for 45 years a member of the University faculty and first dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame. The lecture program was originated in 1943 through the generosity of C. A. Breitung, of Dallas, Texas.
Revamped Ad Club Starts Member Drive
A reorganized Advertising Club began activities last week under the direction of Robert Wallace, its new president. The group lost most of its members through graduation and is currently conducting a membership drive.
At the year’s first meeting on Oct. 18, officers were elected and plans made for future activities. Assisting Wallace are Albert Zenz, vice-president in charge of program; Robert Wildeman, vice-president in charge of membership; William Norton, secretary; and William Hagan, treasurer.
Vice-President Wildeman announced that applicants for admission are welcome from all colleges of the University. He said that the club wishes only those men “who are interested in advertising and will make a sincere effort to help the club.”
Applications must be made by letter to Wildeman at 148 Dillon Hall. Letters should include reason for joining and any suggestions for promotion of the club. The applicant is also asked to include any qualifications he may have, such as college courses or practical experience.
Chicago Prof Discourses On Origination of Caves
J. Harlen Bretz, professor emeritus of the University of Chicago and noted geomorphologist, spoke here last week on the “Origin of Caves.”
The talk, sponsored by the Department of Geology and the Notre Dame Geology Club, was attended by over 100 students and members of the faculty. Profes
sor Bretz is considered an expert on glaciation and cave formations, especially in the Ozark Mountain area.
• From the University of Mississippi Mississippian:
The Zeta Tau Alpha sorority entertained the Athletic Association Tuesday night from 7 to 8:30 with a sock party. All guests, as well as hostesses, were required to remove his socks before entering the house. (The party was most informal.) For entertainment several of the men gave impromptu skits; while coach Cain kept the party rolling with his ukelele.
Using an old toenail instead of a pick?
Oct. 27, 1950
15
Award Contract for Fatima Mission Shrine
Plans for the shrine in honor cf Our Lady of Fatima are nearing the construction stage as contributions continue to he made. The contract for building the shrine has been awarded to the firm of Schumacher and Sons of Mishawaka and the project has received the approval cf His Excellency, John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne.
The shrine, a project of the Holy Cross Mission Band, will be located at the northwest end of the campus and almost directly opposite the entrance to St. Mary’s College. It will be set back from the Dixie highway and will have walk approaches leading up to it with parking facilities adjoining it.
When the shrine has been comple' ed a view of St. Mary’s lake with the church end the dome in the distance will serve as a background setting. The shrine will be located on an elevation and will not have the gi-otto effect of Lourdes. Rev. Charles R. Callahan, C.S.C., director of the project stated: “We want the shrine to look as much like Fatima as possible.”
There will be daily devotions and rosary held in honor of Our Lady of Fatima at the shrine and ou'door masses will be said on special occasions at the shrine’s outdoor altar.
Adjacent to the shrine will be a new mission house for the Missionary Fathers. Within the new mission house will be a “crypt chapel” accommodating 90 to 100 people, in which daily mass will be said for people visiting the shrine. The mission house, a long-awaited project of the Missionary Fathers, will replace the present mission house located near the log chapel. It will be considerably larger than the present house and will serve as the focal point for all missionary activity of the Holy Cross missionary Fathers in the mid-western area.
Also planned by the missionary Father; is the construction of a lay retreat house near the shrine and new mission house. This project has also received enthusiastic support and contributions for its construction are now being collected. It is planned to accommodate over fifty people.
ND Men Invited to Prom Weekend at Terre Haute
The Student Council announced this week that the Junior Class of St. Mary’s of the Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind., has extended invitations to 75 Notre Dame men to attend their Junior Prom on Friday, Nov. 17.
The formal event will begin at 8 p.m., and will break up at midnight. Additional plans include a tea dance Saturday
Student Electorate Names Hall Presidents; New Councils Aim at Closer Cooperation
Thirteen hall presidents have been selected throughout the campus to serve as liaison men between the Student Council and the individual student.
Representing the Senior halls are Ed
From the bottom, I. to r.: T. King, Zahm; J. Baker, Lyons; R. Fitzsimmons, Walsh; E. White, B.-P.; B. Phillips, Badin; G. Dean, Sorin; B. Peckels, Alumni; E. Burke, Dillon; and G. Williard, St. Edward's.
afternoon from 2 to 5, and a banquet at the Terre Haute House that evening at 6 o’clock. The weekend’s finale will be a wiener roast at Shakamak Park in Terre Haute . on Sunday afternoon.
Terre Haute is 201 miles from Notre Dame, about a four-hour drive. Room reservations and other details will be taken care of by the prom committee. Anyone interested should write the Social Committee, Student Council Office, Main Building, stating name, class, height, and hometown.
The Council asks that only those seriously planning to attend the dance contact the social committee and that all communications be turned in before Friday, Nov. 3.
Burke, of Dillon and Gene Dean of Sorin, Juniors have Bob Phillips, Badin, Roger Fitzsimmons, Walsh, Bob Peckels, Alumni, and Bill Toohey, Howard, as their presidents.
The class of ’53 has elected Jim Dun-lay, John Baker, and Mike Dolan to lead Cavanaugh, Lyons, and Morrissey, respectively. Freshmen have the following men at the helm: George Williard, St. Edward’s, Ed White, Breen-Phillips, John Keenan, Farley, and Tom King, Zahm,
“It has often been said,” states Student Council prexy Bill Anhut, “that the Student Council does not reach the average student; the hall councils and presidents are aimed at righting this situation.”
Among the functions which the presidents and councils will assume are: dissemination of information to the student body, working-out of a system for proper use of telephones, developments of means to maintain quiet in the halls, and decoration of the halls for Decoration Week End.
Ghouls and Gals to Gavotte Under Junior Jackolanterns
While witches soar through midnight skies, the Junior class will sponsor a Halloween Harvest Moon Dance Tuesday night in the Drill Hall. Instead of the expected quart of blood, only $1.50 will be exacted as admission tariff. Gremlins in good standing may take advantage of 12:30 permissions extended to those attending. Gene Hull and his Hobgoblins will provide the strains for the shimmying skeletons.
Dance chairman Jack Lambert has announced that dress will be strictly informal. Jeans, sweaters, and sport shirts are de rigeur for the danse macabre. Suits and ties will be frowned upon. Brooms are optional.
The remainder of the committee i; composed of the four Junior hall presidents. Roger Fitzsimmons of Walsh is handling decorations; Bill Toohey, of Howard, refreshments; Bob Peckels, Alumni, tickets; and Bob Phillip-, Badin, the Drill Hall.
• From the University of Louisville Cardinal: “If Selective Service Director Lewis B. Hershey likes engineering students better than humanities majors, that is his own business. . . . Frankly, we think America would be a helluva nicer place if we had a little less engineering and a lot more humanities.”
Well, of course!
The Scholastic
'Technical Review's
Second Season Starts
( ' With John Elsbree replacing Bill Ruoff as editor, the Technical Review embarks on its second publishing season. Published quarterly, it made Ps first ap-• pearance in Nov. 1949.
The Technical Review aims at presenting engineering subjects in such a manner that anyone with two years of physics can fully understand. All phases of engineering are discussed, while > articles concerned with pure science often appear.
“It is not aimed,” says Elsbree, “to confuse a person with technical terms, but — to explain engineering to engineers.” Stilly he hopes it will circulate among all colleges of the University.
The staff includes John Minck, manag-l	ing editor, Lee Brown, business manager,
■	Tom Loosbuck, layout department, Jchn
|	Buckley, advertising, and John Chaniga,
I	administrative department. Dean Karl
J	E. Schoenherr acts as advisor.
[	Writers for the Technical Review are
i	drawn from the engineering school. It
\	is primarily an undergiaduate publica-
£ X	tion, although a graduate student’s ar-
ticle appears occasionally. Circulation is confined mainly to the University. In time, as the staff grows and funds enlarge, there will be an expansion program which will mean a monthly issue.
Top Japanese Jurist Here November 7 for Law Talk
The Honorable Kotara Tanaka, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Japan, *	will pay a visit on November 7 and 8 to
\	the University of Notre Dame. Judge
Tanaka, who is in the United States on i a special mission for General Douglas MacArthur, last came to this country in 1939. His present tour is under the auspices of the Institute of International Education.
During Judge Tanaka’s visit to the campus he will speak before students cf the College of Law. He also will examine the facilities and program of the University’s Mediaeval Institute. . t	■	—	«••••	—
J Sunday's Breakfast First Of Rochester Club's Year
Members of the Rochester Club met [	for their first Communion Breakfast of
the year Sunday. Mass was celebrated by Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C. S. C., chaplain of the club, in Alumni Hall. The members then held their breakfast in H the Coral Room of the Hotel La Salle.
Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain of Y.C.S., addressed the group. His theme \ was the participation of the laity in the work of the clergy.
| Oct. 27, 1950
Plans were made for the Christinas Dance, travel home, the next meeting, and a student get-together during the Christmas vacation.
Nov. 21 Scheduled to Be Freshman's Day at Polls
The election of Freshman class officers has been set for Nov. 21. In charge of this election is Don Grubmeyer, chairman of the Blue Circle’s election committee. Any party that wishes to register should bring a list of its candidates and the positions for which they are running to the Student Council office at least two weeks before the election. This office, located in the Main Building, is open from 2:15 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons.
As usual, the election will be held in the basement of the Dining Hall during the regular lunch and dinner hours. There will be openings for four officers —president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer. The winning candidates will take office as soon as possible after the election.
To be elected to one of these offices, a candidate must receive a plurality of the total votes cast, have a clear academic record, and be able to serve for a full academic year. Also 25% of the total class -membership must vote in the election.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, Oct. 28—red—Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. 2nd or. of the Rosary. Credo, Preface of the Apostles.
Sunday, Oct. 29—white—Feast of Christ the King. 2nd or. of the 22nd Sun. after Pent. Proper preface. Last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, Oct. 30—green—Mass of the preceding Sunday (22nd after Pent.). 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary. Neither Gloria- nor Credo. Common preface.
Tuesday, Oct. 31—violet—Vigil of All Saints. 2nd or. of the Holy Spirit, 3rd or. for the Church, 4th or. ,of the Rosary, 5th or. for Peace.
Wednesday, Nov. 1—white—Holy Day of obligation: Feast of All Saints. Credo and common preface.
Thursday, Nov. 2—black—All Souls’ Day. Each priest may say three Masses for the dead.
^Friday, Nov. 3—white—Mass of the Feast of All Saints (within the octave). 2nd or. of the Holy Spirit, 3rd or. for the Church, 4th or. of the Rosary, 5th or. for Peace. No Credo.
* A Requiem Mass or a Votive Mass is permitted.
Cleveland Club Runs Trip to Navy Contest
The Cleveland Club this week released plans for a gala Navy game week end to be held in Cleveland Nov. 3 to 5. Bernie Endres, president of the Cleveland Club, announced that all Notre Dame students who wish to take advant. ge of this trip are welcomed to come along and will share in the same advantages as offered to regular Cleveland Club members.
Special Cleveland Club train cars will be attached to the Friday afternoon 4:45 p. m. New York Central train. The 4:45 arrives at 10:10. To make reservations on this special train contact Tom Hu-berty in 304 Walsh, Bill Beargie in 223 Howard, Larry Dolan in 235 Breen-Philips, or Carl Nickels in 243 Cavanaugh before Tuesday. A saving of between 34.00 and $5.00 will be realize! from the regular round trip price of $18.00.
Friday night, Nov. 3 will find the students, alumni and their friends ga'hered in the Rainbow Room.of the Hotel Carter for a combination rally and dance. Coach Frank Leahy and other nationally known speakers will help get the entertainment under way at 9:00 pan. The price for the dance, which will immediately follow the rally, will be $2.50 per person; time is from 9:00 p.m. on.
On Saturday night the Victory dance will be held in the Main Ballroom of the Hotel Carter. Price is $3.00 per couple and reservations can be obtained by seeing Bernie Endres in 126 Alumni. Music will be furnished by Hruby and the dance will be from 9 p.m. till 2:00 a.m. For those gallant young lads who wish dates for any or' all events, convict Bernie Endres and he will see that you are well taken care of.
New Marketing Club Makes First Campus Appearance
New this semester, the Marketing Club held its first meeting Oct. 5. A constitutional committee was appointed and officers elected. Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing addressed the initial gathering.
Thomas Snyder is the club’s first president. William Norton is vice-president in charge of membership and Thomas Anselman vice-president in charge of program. Secretary is James Robertson, while Gus Flich is treasurer. Mr. Searles, of the Department of Marketing, acts as faculty advisor. The club is affiliated with the American Marketmg Association.
17
Reading Scholarships
By LARRY McDERMOTT, ’51
Thirty Notre Dame men will receive scholarships that are going to give them a chance to cut their study time in half. They will be made a gift of an extra hour or so each day.
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, announced today that thirty scholarships will be awarded to Notre Dame students by the Foundation for Better Reading in cooperation with the Office of Academic Affairs. These scholarships will provide for the regular course offered by the Foundation at no cost to the students.
The scholarships are open to all students, both graduate and undergraduate, who fill out the application blank below. A committee composed of University representatives will decide on the applicants and those selected will be notified during the week of Nov. 5. The thirty winners will be taken in three groups of ten each.
Those selected will first receive three to four hours of diagnostic surveys. They will then take 20 hours of instruction. The instruction is spread out over four weeks; one hour a day, five days a week. The hours will be arranged to fit in with each student’s schedule. Then at the completion of the course the student will be rechecked to measure the progress made.
Father Norton said, “We are very interested in seeing what progress and improvement in class work will be made by those who have taken the course.”
Reading Well Important
The imprtance of reading well in college cannot be overemphasized. It serves the average student both as a means to the greater part of his learning and as a form of entertainment. After graduation the student will find that he has to keep up his reading in his work. The businessman reading and answering letters, the lawyer digging through cases, the doctor keeping up with advances in the profession, all these find reading a necessary part of their work. How well and how fast they can read may be the margin between mediocrity and success.
.However, most of us have had no instruction in the technique of reading since the 5th or 6th grade. Consequently, most Americans read at about an 8th grade level. They may read more difficult material, but their skill in the mechanics of reading has not increased ap
18
preciably. The average college Freshman minute. In almost every case this rate may be doubled, if not tripled or quadrupled,, without any loss in comprehension. To see how this may be done, it is necessary to review just what the eye does in the process of reading.
Certain Eye Span
In reading, the eye takes in a certain span or width of words. The wider the span, the fewer stops or fixations are necessary in reading each line. During these fixations the brain absorbs what the eyes have seen. Most people have a narrowed word span; in fact many people stop at almost every word. Easiest to detect among these persons are those who form each word with their lips or throat muscles. Harder to detect are those who make no such movements, but must “hear” the word in their internal ear before they can go on to the next word.
Another factor which slows up reading is the habit of regressing. A regression is the name for the little backward trips the eye makes unconsciously to pick up a word or phrase which did not register on the first reading. Each of these regressions slows down reading speed and breaks the rhythm which is essential to fast easy reading.
In the “reading accelerator," the reader must keep in advance of a moving slide.
If the word span can be increased, requiring fewer fixations, the duration of each fixation shortened, and the regressions eliminated, a person will be able to read faster. This faster rate will then become his normal rate, just as comfortable as the old, slower rate. Scientists estimate that the average person uses his eyes to only about 25 per cent of their capacity.
Therefore, almost everyone should be able to at least double his reading rate. There are even rare cases of persons who have moved from a speed' of 240 words per minute to a phenomenal rate of about 2400 words per minute.
Of course all materials are not read at the same speed. A person should read light novels, a newspaper, a text book, and statistical material at different rates to get the most out of each. But it has been found that an increase in the rate and comprehension for one type of reading will result in a proportionate increase for other types of reading. And perhaps most important is the fact that speed and comprehension both increase. In other words, you do not sacrifice understanding to speed.
The instruments and methods used to increase reading speed and comprehension are fascinating.
The Scholastic
Students Diagnosed
Before a student takes the course he is given a diagnostic. This consists of a battery of checks for such things as ability to learn, speed and level of comprehension, . vocabulary ranking and reading work habits. lie is also tested on two instruments.
One of these, the opthalmograph, reflects a light into the eyes of the person being tested. While he reads a passage the movement of his eyes traces a path on a moving strip of film. When the film is developed, this path appears as a series of steps showing the number and duration of fixations and regressions. He is then questioned on the material to determine his level and degree of comprehension.
Another testing device, the Telebinocular, checks the person’s ability to control the eye muscles in focussing them on objects at different distances. It also checks for color-blindness. The principle is much like that of the stereoscope. The instrument holds a card with two images, one for each eye.
Different cards test for different abilities in focussing, such as far and near point focussing. This instrument is particularly helpful for detecting the need for eye correction which may interfere
not to proceed with
raising the reading of comprehension is
cide at this point the course.
The process of rate and the level
(Notre Dame students here demonstrate some of the instruments used to speed up reading ability. Pictured clockwise from the top of the page are the "telebinocular" for testing visual acuity, a "tachistoscope," which is designed to increase eye span by flashing sets of digits on a screen, a typical group of students working with the machines, and the "opthalmograph," which traces eye movements by means of photographic
with the student’s ability to read well.
This diagnostic takes about three-or four hours. When it is completed both the student and his reading counselor know his present reading status and about how much improvement can be made. Since the diagnostic and the course are separate, the student may de
done with the aid of two instruments and a stop watch under trained supervision. Throughout the course the student re-cieves individual instruction.
The first of these instruments is the Tachistoscope. Operated by the student, the machine flashes a light on a card (Continued on Page 32)



Oct. 27, 1950
19

Compiled by KEN STEAD, '53
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., president of the University of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker Wednesday morning at a meeting of the Iowa Banker’s association in Des Moines. While he was in Des Moines, Father Cavanaugh was the guest of honor at a dinner Wednesday night given by Notre Dame alumni in the Des Moines area.
DR. JOHN J. KANE, instructor in sociology at Notre Dame, has been named part-time associate director of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table, National Conference of Christians and Jews. Dr. Kane will assist Director LOUIS A. RADELET in administering the local and Indiana state office of N.C.C.J.
Holy Hour to Mark Papal Pronouncement
To commemorate the papal pronouncement of the Assumption Dogma on Nov. 1, a special holy hour will be held next Wednesday evening at Sacred Heart Church. Beginning at 6:45, the ceremonies will include a sermon by Rev. William M. Robinson, C.S.C., recitation of the Rosary, and consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
After the morning Masses and for the remainder of the day, a statue of the Blessed Virgin will be enshrined in-the sanctuary.
Through the declaration of His Hol-ness, Pius XII, the first such ex cathedra proclamation from the papacy in nearly a century, the bodily assumption of the Blessed Virgin into Heaven will become an official article of Catholic dogma, an article of faith which must be accepted by all Catholics.
In honor of the solemnity of this occasion, students of the University are conducting a novena of Masses, Communions, and Rosaries. The novena ends on All Saints’ Day.
German Baroness Speaks On Life of Theresa Neuman
Baroness von Gutenberg, a close friend of Theresa Neuman, addressed the Liturgical Life group last Sunday morning in the Cavanaugh Hall reading room. The Baroness, who has known the saintly Theresa Neuman since 1927, spoke to the group of the stigmataed woman’s life and visions.
Baroness von Gutenberg is president of the Caritas Relief Committee in Ger-
ED “MOOSE” KRAUSE, athletic director at Notre Dame, was the guest speaker at a Notre Dame-Michigan State pep rally held last night in Chicago. The rally, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, was held in the Knickerbocker Hotel.
Former Notre Dame basketball star, LEO BARNHORST, ’49, was in action last Monday night in South Bend. He played in the charity game between the Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons and the Indianapolis Olympians at John Adams gym.
Barnhorst was recently acquired by the Indianapolis team. Last year he played on the now defunct Chicago Stags. Monday night’s game was sponsored by the South Bend Lions Club.
many. She is in this country on business in connection with that organization.
The Baroness told the Liturgical Life meeting of Theresa Neuman’s life, suffering, stigmata, visions, and prophecies.
Baroness von Gutenberg addresses Liturgical Life gathering on Theresa Neuman.
She told of Miss Neuman’s co-passion with Christ, and of her visions of the Passion, the Assumption, the Agony in the Garden of Gethsemani, and many others.
After the talk, Baroness von Gutenberg answered questions put to her by members of the group. Here she emphasized the fact that many prophecies have been faslely ascribed to Theresa Neuman. Her true prophecies are made only after Communion and permission is rarely granted to speak to her at this time.
University Receives Grant For Study of Sheep Worm
A $2,500 grant has been given to the University of Notre Dame by Armour and Co. of Chicago for the study of the biology and control of the sheep stomach worm.
Dr. John D. Mizelle, professor of biology and editor of The American Midland Naturalist, announced that Joseph Berberian, a graduate student in the Department of Biology has been given a fellowship under the terms of the Armour grant to work on a method to rid fanners of this menace to sheep.
This parasite is responsible for the loss every year of hundreds of tons of mutton. A blood-sucker by nature, the-adult worm lives in the fourth stomach of the sheep and consumes the nutritive agents that should go to the development of edible flesh.
The eggs and the larvae of the sheep stomach worm live in the pastures where they are picked up by the sheep. Later the worm matures in the fourth stomach of the sheep. The research problem u"on which Berberian will work deels wi h finding the stage in the development of the egg of the larva at which it is susceptible to any existing detergent which might kill it. This research is cariied on with the help of a climatizer, a refrigerator-like machine which controls temperature and humidity, providing the fixed conditions necessary for success.
Cameramen Can Collect Chesterfield Contest Cosh
Local shutter-bugs have a chance to pick up some ready cash courtesy of Chesterfields and the Campus Merchandising Bureau. In a series of monthly contests, college photographers are asked to submit a sequence of three photographs of student models taking the Chesterfield mildness test: “Open ’em; smell ’em; smoke ’em.” Deadlines for the next two monthly contests are Nov. 5 and Dec. 6, while winners will receive cash prizes of $50 each.
All entries will be considered for future Chesterfield advertising. Pictures should be taken on campus and poses should duplicate those appearing in the current series of ads in the Scholastic.
Entries, glossy prints (either 5x7 or 8x10), will be judged on photography technique, reproduction quality, accurate illustration, and adaptability for advertising purposes. All entries should include names and addresses of model and photographer and should be mailed to Campus Merchandising Bureau, Inc., 274 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
Frank Semetko, Chesterfield campus representative, has posted contest rules and can answer all inquiries.
20
The Scholastic
X-Ray Survey
Student X-Rayed by Tuberculosis League
Officials at the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League have announced that 1,959 persons received chest X-rays early this month during the survey conducted in the basement of the Dining-•- /I Hall.
The Tuberculosis League could not furnish a report on the findings of this survey yet, since the films must be processed and analyzed in Indianapolis, by X-ray specialists. When this report of negative and positive X-rays is completed, it will be published.
This years’ X-ray survey, scheduled originally for five days, was cut down to two because of the Student trip weekend. This accounts for- the relatively low turnout on the part of students and em-\ ployees of the University.
Captain Daly Announces Two Rifle Team Tryouts
Navy and Varsity Rifle team coach, Captain J. M. Daly, announced that tryouts for both teams would begin Nov. 1. Both squads will be composed of 20 men. " Last year’s Navy team cap'.ured the Navy Department Championship, making it the best of the 52 NROTC units in colleges throughout the country. At the same time, the Varsity contingent compiled a 30-1 record against opposition from all over the nation. Since it could not participate in the national tournament at Columbus, Ohio, these Varsity sharpshooters did not get a shot at the National Championship.
The 20 men will be selected by a process of elimination. Men who compete on one team, may compete with both teams, if they are eligible.
Action is slated to get underway in January so it is desirable that all riflemen begin trials early. No experience •>. is necessary.
The Third Degree
---------By ED MURTZ
With an academic month scratched off the Fall semester at this reading, the scholastic pace is beginning to quicken, along with the pulse of the apprehensive graduate student. For this is the time when ye typicale professorial schizophrenia begins to schize.
Gone is the bland smile of welcome, the suave, genial pose of the kindly sage beaming upon his academic heirs. At this stage of the old scholastic shellgame, exams rear their ugly heads, and with the first “Discuss in detail . . .”, that charming man who lectures so brilliantly and wittily in Xz 100 on “Games of Chance and Their Deleterious Effects on Hittite Culture” becomes a fullblown fiend, a ravening monster fresh from a Charles Addams cartoon. His aspect, once so pleasant, is now that of some latter-day Dracula, new risen from a scene of unearthly horror. But fear not! Be strong and persevere! This too shall pass away, leaving perhaps a nasty
Square Dance and Party Marks Vetville Halloween
Tomorrow night the Vet Rec Hall goes strictly country style as the Halloween Square Dance for- all married students begins at 9 p.m. Cliff Barnes, nationally known caller, will preside and instructions will be given in the fundamental steps. Free cider and doughnuts are included in the 50 cent admission charge.
About 100 children of various ages are expected to help pandemonium reign in the Vet Rec Hall Tuesday, starting at 3:30 p.m., with the staging of the kiddies’ Halloween party. Prizes are to be awarded for best costumes and movies, ND balloons, apples, and games are also on the agenda.
You mean you passed that X-Ray . test AGAIN?
gash on the psyche, but no permanent damage.
The point we wish to make in all this is that the extra-curricular phase of student life also seems to become a little more dynamic as the weeks wobble by. While to the general public, the Grad Student Association representatives may seem to have died since their early list of promises, behold, the child is not dead, nor does it sleep! There is a good bit of work which must be done in committee, and the committees have been working, and hard, building the outline of a solid, long-range program, which is shaping up extremely well.
The University administration has recently very generously granted the graduate students special representation in their relations with the University, through the Graduate Association. This is a major decision, and with the privilege, arises a heavy obligation. If the graduate student has been recognized as a mature individual, deserving of special treatment, then it is very much up to us to show that we possess the maturity and responsibility to merit such special consideration.
The Executive Council of the Association has for some time been engaged in the preparation of a report for the consideration of University authorities, dealing with modification of the student regulations insofar as they concern graduate students specifically, and with problems of the group in general. This report is to be discussed at the meeting of Nov. 13, in the Rec Hall, so this is the time to speak up. It is extremely easy to sit back and gripe about this and that but all that this accomplishes is to increase the individual’s sense of irritation and frustration.
Here is your chance. The University has consented to sit down with your representatives and discuss our problems. We of the Association have been designated to represent our graduates. But we cannot speak for you if you will not speak to us. Put your ideas where your gripes are, and we will do our best to see that any sound ideas are forwarded to the authorities.
There are other matters of interest to be discussed on Nov. 13 as well: the obtaining of a graduate lounge, the location of a suitable place to hold our social affairs, the appointment of an association chaplain and a faculty moderator, the formation of a basketball league, the modification of our- own by-laws to meet our new responsibility. So be there! You have no legitimate gripe about the organization or the place of the graduate student on campus, if you yourself do not deign to take a working interest in either. Speak now, or forever hold your peace.
Oct. 27, 1950
21
THE McCARRAN
By DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW
One of the prime considerations in the analysis of a piece of legislation is the question of legality. As regards the Internal Security Act of 1950 (H.R. 9490, Public Law 831) that question may well be determined in the current term of the United States Supreme Court.
At present there can be only guesses as to the verdict. However, the Circuit Court of Appeals during this past year characterized Communists as “a clear and present danger” to the country. Judge Learned Hand said in his opinion in this case that the American Communist party “is a highly articulated, well-contrived, far-spread organization, numbering thousands of adherents, rigidly and ruthlessly disciplined. ... It seeks converts far and wide . . . demanding of all an inflexible doctrinal orthodoxy.
“The violent capture of all existing governments is one article of the creed of that faith, which abjures the possibility of success by lawful means. (They are) indoctrinating their pupils, preparing increasing numbers to pledge themselves to the crusade, and awaiting the moment when we may be so far extended by foreign engagements, so far-divided in counsel, or so far in industrial or financial straits, that the chance seems worth trying . . . we shall be silly dupes if we forget that again and again in the past thirty years just such preparations in. other countries have aided to supplant existing governments when the time was ripe.”
If the Supreme Court upholds the notion that the Communists do, in the Holmes tradition, constitute a “clear and present danger that . . . will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent,” then the legality of the new anti-Communistic legislation will be on fairly safe ground.
Sustaining this point of view is the argument that all Communists are at least potential spies for Russia, and that they plan to overthrow the American government. In spite of the relatively small number of Communists in the United States—54,174, according to J. Edgar Hoover—they represent a serious threat. When the Communists overthrew the Russian government in 1917, the ratio of Communists was one for every 2.277 persons in Russia. Today in the United States the ratio is one known Communist for every 1,814 persons. The question of which side the Communists would support in the event of a war with Russia need not detain us.
(Continued on Page 33)
<4 PRO
COX ►
Dr. Bartholomew
This week, the Scholastic runs the first of a series of forums on issues of national importance. The purpose of these forums is primarily to inform readers on topics which are judged to be of grave importance in American life. The forums will be written by authorities on the faculty.
Prof. Smelser
LAW
By PROF. MARSHALL SMELSER
At a time -when our internal security needs strengthening Congress has failed us.
As I see the weaknesses of the so-called McCarran Law, they are four:
(1)	It damages our intelligence operations. The responsible security officers of the United States have said the law will weaken their arms.
Two examples suffice to make this clear. First, Secretary Marshall is re- -quired to publish and “proclaim” a complete list of all facilities which are vital to our national defense. Second, in order to prove attitudes of mind (if that is possible), the FBI will have to produce in court its most confidential files, so that any defendant will know where a particular quotation used against him came from; this will mean that any informant’s usefulness will be finished from then on.
(2)	It will ivaste the time of enforcement agencies. Sections 1-17 provide J means of getting information regarding Communist organizations. The FBI says it already has what information it needs.
Furthermore, the Communist Party has announced that its members will not register as required by law. Shall the FBI now drop every other kind of security work and run down those eightythousand people to make them register? This would be foolish, since the FBI already knows who they are.
(3)	It weakens our citizenship requirements. Before the passage of this act, if an alien quit the Communist Party he was to wait ten years to be naturalized. Under this law he is immediately eligible.
(4)	It attempts “thought control.” Instead of limiting itself to human acts, much of the law is devoted to protecting us from thoughts in agreement with Kremlin thoughts. Very often such agreement is merely coincidental. (Are you in favor of federally-operated postal service? Watch yourself, Mac. So is Stalin.) .
No statute ever killed an “ism” and some statutes have promoted “isms” by making false or genuine martyrs. If we give up our ancient principle that government only punishes the deeds of men, and leaves their- thoughts to God, how do we differ from the Communists and the Fascists? We are supposed to be out in front in the parade of freedom, yet herein we take up the enemy’s way of life.
In conclusion, some have charged that (Continued on Page 33)
22
The Scholastic
The Christian Cold War
A few years ago some notices were put up in the high schools in South Bend. The notices announced a meeting which was to be held in the YMCA. The subject of the meeting was to be discrimination and it was to be sponsored by the Young Progressives.
The meeting stirred up a flurry of interest on the students’ part. There was a good crowd at the meeting. The first speaker was a fellow of high-school age. He started off by blasting right into the problems of discrimination against Negroes in schools, housing, jobs, etc. It wasn’t long, however, before some of the sharper boys up front began to get the drift of what he was saying. They’d never heard of Karl Marx, but they were able to recognize that this lingo was Communistic and they started to heckle him.
Community Awakes
So what happened? The meeting came to a sputtering stop. Word got around, it hit the South Bend Tribune and South Bend woke up to the surprising fact that there had been a meeting for high school kids at the YMCA run by a Communist youth organization.
The Communist youth organization was the Young Progressives. It was composed of kids of high school age and older. As a result of all the unfavorable publicity, it dropped out of sight. With it also the meeting was soon out of mind.
The kid who spotted the party line in that speech was using his head. Communism should be opposed, and people who can handle it in a concrete situation like this fellow did are all too rare. The ironic detail about the thing, however, was this. Though the kids heckled the Communist and though their parents’ indignation put a crimp on the Young Progressives, neither the kids nor their parents spent any time getting hot and bothered about the subject that occasioned the meeting: discrimination. In opposing the Communists they forgot about the problem which caused the whole business.	■
Discrimination should be opposed, and making people aware of the injustice of discrimination in schools, housing, and
NO CLASSES
All classes throughout the University will be cancelled Wednesday, All Saints’ Day, a holyday of obligation.
jobs is a good thing. The Young Progressives were right in that regard. They saw the problem, but they used it as a means of spreading Communism. The kids at the meeting opposed Communism, and never considered the problem.
It’s easy to identify Communists with the agitation they make about sore spots in the social structure. The next step is to brand anyone who tries to disturb people about problems of racial discrimination or unjust economic situations a Communist. But that’s wrong. It’d be better to “brand” such people Christians, because anyone who makes people aware of injustice is acting like a Christian. Christians are supposed to oppose injustice.
The Communists are right, then, in disturbing people about existing social evils. They’re wrong in opposing an inhuman cure to these social evils. A Christian must make people aware of social evils too, but he must go further than that. He must cure the problem. Christianity must be incarnated in the structure of a society. Society must be so organized that it encourages people to live humanly. If this is the case then society is perfectible. It serves as a foundation for Divine Grace.
It is not enough to oppose Communism by shouting, “Wolf, Wolf!” It can be opposed only by opposing economic injustice, racial discrimination, and the other concrete instances of social injustice. This is how Christians must fight it —by replacing injustice with justice, selfishness with charity.
Catholic Action Aim
This is the aim of Catholic Action, to restore the world to Christ by making it human. It is this incarnation of Christianity in the social order which must be effected. A climate in which men can breathe the Divine Grace necessary for the life of their soul must be created. In the concrete this means that men must be provided with the “housing, employment, food, leisure, education, etc.— without which life is no longer human.” (Cardinal Suhard, Growth and Decline.)
Society and social structure are pretty vague words. Just what is meant by saying that the aim of Catholic Action is to reform the social structure, social pressures and institutions? -
This means that every man is affected by certain attitudes which urge him to conform to a particular way of thinking or acting. For instance, social pres
sures exert a force on one to eat with a knife and fork, to take a glass of beer, perhaps to wear white bucks, or maybe they make being a big wheel seem very important.
Institutions Defined
An institution, on the other hand, might be a material thing like the library, the Stratigon, or the rules and regulations to which you must adhere if you are to remain a student in good standing. The Placement Bureau has been notifying Seniors of Ford’s Training Program. That’s an institution. The aim - of Catholic Action is to reform those social pressures and institutions which are un-Christian so that they may offer a man a more human life.
A Catholic Action group doesn’t go about this by attempting to reform the whole world. It tries to reform the particular world in which the members live. For students this would be a student world, for workers a worker’s world, etc.
Yet even broken down this way it is too much for an isolated individual. As men, we need help, encouragement. We need social pressures of others working with us to counteract social pressures which discourage us from acting as Christians. I think that Cardinal Suhard has tersely stated Catholic Action’s answer to this problem. He states:
Before the size of the task, the isolated Christian is powerless. It is the honor of Catholic Action to have thoroughly understood this. It teaches its members to iudge civic, economic and social problems according to their Faith. It prepares them to assume their Christian responsibilities in the City. Finally, by its very life it claims for a man conditions of life more in conformity with his sublime vocation as a son of God. The necessity of this simultaneous action is a precious conclusion. It confirms, by facts, the Catholic conception of the Incarnation and presages for the Church the direction of her development.
—Bill Rich, r51
Dean Manion Publishes Book
Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame Law School, has written a book on Law of the Air, published -this week by Bobbs-Merrill Company of Indianapolis. .
Dean Manion’s book was published in response to repeated demands on the part of practitioners and law schools wherein such a specialized course is offered. It is the first completely new work in this field in recent years.
The book is divided into two parts, one devoted to Aviation and one to Radio. The book extends and applies existing legal principles on the use of air for communication and transportation, bringing up to date certain phases of this field not previously dealt with in any specific work.
Oct. 27, 1950
23
!
IM. two skints -most ukefy to iuoaeat ok om campus
Burt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man’s staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.

Send. Your School Pictures to the Folks at Home . . .
r Here’s What You Get -
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco.
We will develop and finish the '16 pictures.
Loan you a Camera
ALL $4} FOR
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
See us for all your Photographic needs.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
122 So. Main St.	Ph. 3-5041
Your Eastman Kodak Store
Range—fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan,” which means perfect fit.
THROW AWAY
001}
10 for 10c
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY)
Pipes of specially selected imported briar.SA Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... £
Also Frank Medico 'Standard*...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe
Frank Medico Cigarette Holden M & *2
MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
When the Filter in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and Rakes it has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking I
Real
Filters .. not mere hollow tubes

24
The Scholastic

Hungry Spartans To Invade Tomorrow
* a
Mich. State Pre-Game
(Continued from Page 9) nior was tabbed “the most improved player on the Spartan lineup.”
Coach “Biggie” Munn’s double-formation offense has been an endless source of confusion to spectators as well as to Spartan foes. Happily facing the problem of selecting four backs from a supply of six equally good starters, Munn decided to use the single wing formation to either left or right, along with the UT n
On “T” plays Al Dorow crouches at quarterback and does the passing, Sonny Grandelius and Vince Pisano operate from the halves, and Captain Leroy Crane works from his fullback post. Otherwise Bill Carey calls the plays from the blocking back slot, Grandelius switches to fullback, Pisano stays at right half, and sophomore Willie Thrower takes over the tailback duties.
In the 18 game series, dating back to 1897, the Spartans have tasted victory but twice, in 1910 and 1918 by 17-0 and 13-7 scores. The Irish have scored 417 points to the Michiganders 64. In the past two years, however, the’ tide has somewhat changed: 1948 saw the Munn men tally first before dropping a 26-7
Don Coleman
decision. Chandnois and Co. took the Irish all the way in ’49, but the final score saw the Leahymen on the long end of a 34-21 count.
The present season shows promise of being the best the Lansingers have enjoyed under Munn. After bowling over Oregon State by a 38-13 score, the Spartans topped the Wolverines, 14-7. The subsequent letdown enabled a good Maryland team to defeat State, 34-7. Two consecutive 34 point sprees marked the return to the glory road, as William and Mary scored 21 tallies and Marquette but seven.
Although a victory over the Irish would be sweet, the Spartans are refusing to point for this game, since that has usually spelled season-long disaster after
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Michigan State
Ostrowski ......E........... Carey
Toneff ..........T........ Coleman
Wallner ........G........... Yocca
Groom ...........C........ Creamer
Johnston .......G.......... Kapral
Flynn ...........T...... McFadden
Mutscheller ....E_________ Minarik
Williams .......Q............Dorow
Gay .............H...... Grandelius
Petitbon .......H.......... Pisano
Landry ..........F.......... Crane
Kickoff: 1:30 p. m. C.S.T.
the Notre Dame struggle. With the Irish as weak as they now are, the Spartans can hope both to beat them and still be im good enough emotional..condition to successfully finish the year.
Notre Dame on the other hand, is still reeling from Indiana and Tulane. Billy Barrett and Paul Burns are doubtful starters for the rest of the year. Dave Flood still is bothered by his shoulder as is Jim Dunlay. -
A victory tomorrow, however, would give Leahy’s charges a better- than even record for the first and rougher half of the season. A defeat would result in the first Irish team to lose three games since 1934. The Purdue and Indiana scores rank number one and two respec-
Bob Carey
tively as the worst defeats a Leahy-coached Notre Dame team has suffered. Not even during the black days following the overwhelming defeats by Army has Notre Dame football been at such a low ebb.
Irish Harriers Face Iowa Here Tomorrow
Iowa’s Hawkeyes will be the guests of the Irish cross country squad tom-rrow morning on the four mile Notre Dame course. The race starts in front of th? Grotto at 11 a.m. and will finish at the same spot about 20 minutes later. Stands have been erected so that spectators will be able to see the- start and finislr - off -the race as well as the finish of each mile lap.
History indicates that the meet should be close for the past two years the Hawkeye-Irish contdbt has ended in the same score—27-28. Iowa was on top last year- and Notre Dame won in ’48.
Even though Notre Dame will be running without Captain Jim Kittell, who has been ruled ineligible, they will still be stronger than last year. Iowa may have improved some, too, however, so it’s
(Continued on Page 32)
SPILL THE SPARTANS
Oct. 27, 1950
25
4
----------SWAMP THE SPARTANS
Farley Hall Captures Frosh Swim Crown
Coach Krause Drills Basketball Squad Daily In Preparation for Opener on December 6
Zahm’s two-year reign was ended by Farley in the Freshman Swimming Meet held last Wednesday evening at the Rockne Memorial. The Farleyites put together three firsts, two seconds, and four thirds in seven events to far outdistance all other competition.
Gil Burdick, in charge of proceedings Wednesday night, said the meet was the largest held in the last six years. About 34 boys participated.
Individual honors went to Bill Fagan of Farley, Dick Castle of St. Ed’s, and Jim McComb of Zahm. Fagan came in first in both the 200 and 100 yard freestyle events. Castle walked off with honors in the fifty yard backstroke and 75 yard medley, and McComb came in first in the 50 yard free-style and grabbed a second in the 50 yard breast-stroke.
Hugh Bray squeezed past Ray Tierney by the slender margin of three-tenths of a point to cop diving honors and give Farley its third winning performance of the evening. Neil Austin of Zahm outdistanced everyone in the fifty yard breast-stroke to round out the winner’s circle.
Crowley, Homan, Rogers, and Dugan contributed ten points to the winning Farley effort.
While the eyes of the sports world are focused on the efforts of Notre Dame’s fighting gridmen, another group of Irish stalwarts are grooming themselves for the athletic wars. For the past two weeks basketball coach and athletic director Ed “Moose” Krause has been sending his court charges through daily workouts in preparation for their home opener against Franklin College Dec. 6.
Krause’s eagers are predominantly Sophomores and Juniors, with only three Seniors returning from the squad which won 15 out of 24 last year. The biggest loss is, of course, spectacular Kevin O’Shea, the All-American guard who paced the Irish for the past four seasons. Gone also are center John Foley, like O’Shea, a four year man, and reserve guard Tom Johnson.
The three who are in their last year with the Irish, and upon whom Coach Krause will depend heavily, are Dan Bagley, Marty O’Connor, and Neal Fich-tel. Forward Bagley was the third highest scorer last year with 255 points and was perhaps the team’s best rebound man. The 6’ 4” Chicagoan will again provide much needed height and weight under the boards.
O’Connor, who was used mostly as a
Farley Hall's championship swimming team lines up and Hashes its victory srm.e.
spot performer and who sparked many late game rallies, will take up much of the slack left by O’Shea’s graduation.
Marty had a phenomenal .800 free throw average, dunking 24 of 30 charity tosses. Fichtel improved rapidly last year and will again give added strength to the forward position.
Juniors Leroy Leslie and Jack Neu-mayr head the forward corps along with Bagley and Fichtel. Leaping Leroy, whose talented left-handed push shot made him the team’s second highest scorer behind O’Shea, was a regular all last year, while Neumayr broke into the starting lineup in the middle of the campaign and gave the squad both an offensive and defensive boost. Another Junior-and the tallest member of the squad, 6’ 6” Hughes Wilcox, is in the forward picture.
Four Sophomores are also fighting for a starting berth—Ed Condon, 6’ 4” from St. Ignatius in Chicago, Harry Osterman from Evansville in the heart of basketball-mad Indiana, Pennsylvania’s Joe Dombrosky, and Floyd Blah- of Jordan, N. Y. Dombrosky is 6’ 5” while the others are just under that height. Condon, a steady performer, is especially highly regarded.
At guard Krause is counting heavily on the development of Sophomores, although he has a returning regular in Don Strasser as well as O’Connor. Strasser, a smooth fiooi- man, still has his A deadly two-handed set shot to give Irish opponents plenty of trouble. Juniors Dick Clancy and Tom Dunn complete the returning guard prospects.
The first year men are Dan-Farrell, Gerry McCloskey, Jim Gibbons, Larry Eaton, and Bill Kelly. Gibbons, a fancy dribbler and playmaker of the O’Shea type, and McCloskey, a 6’ 3”, 200 pounder from Toledo are rated as top bets to team with Strasser or O’Connor in making a potent back court duo.
The center position has three candidates—Juniors Mike Jaekeles and Bob Wray, and Sophomore Norb “Gootch” Lewinski. The ■ latter, who along with Gibbons is a product of Mt. Carmel in Chicago, is an outstanding prospect. He is a good feeder, an excellent rebound artist, and is surprisingly agile for his 6’ 5” frame. Brooklyn’s Wray was effective in his brief appearances last year and has a good hook shot.
—Bill Londo, ’53
SMASH THE SPARTANS----------
26
The Scholastic
SMEAR THE SPARTANS

KjwJiiWf, the. JIgIU
k.
Morrissey on Top, 6-0
A blocked punt and a sprint of 15 yards was enough for Morrissey Hall to triumph over a stubborn Lyons eleven in an inter-hall football game last week.
After a scoreless first period, in which neither team advanced the ball past their opponent’s 30 yard line, Lyon’s Vic Riley’s punt was blocked by a whole host of Morrissey linemen. Mark Tolle scooped up the loose ball and raced 15 yards untouched to pay dirt. Pat Smith’s attempted conversion was blocked and Morrissey led at half time, 6 to 0. ►
As the second half progressed, it appeared quite evident that the Morrissey forward wall was too much for Lyons to contend with. Time and time again Morrissey linemen broke through to spill quarterback O’Brien as he tried to start the Lyons’ aerial attack.
There was no real scoring threat in the second half by either team until late in the final quarter, when a Buch-eye to Haynes aerial, covering 50 yards, gave Morrissey a first down on the Lyons 12. However this threat was stopped in its tracks by some good defensive work by the Lyons line.
Morrissey’s victory gives them a record of one win and one tie. This puts them in a first place tie in the West Division with Alumni, which has the same record.—Mort Kelly, ’5>
Alumni Scores Second Shutout
Paced by the scintillating running of their fleet-footed left halfback, Jerry Derivaux, and with the aid of some timely interceptions, Alumni rolled over the Off-Campus eleven, 14-0. It was the second straight game in which Alumni has shut out their opponents.
Derivaux got his hands on the ball only three times but on each occasion he went all the way to score. One jaunt went for naught because of a holding penalty.
Early in the second period Derivaux intercepted an Off-Campus aerial and ran it back 40 yards for a touchdown. The tryfor-point failed.
Off-Campus started off the second half by muffing the kickoff and wound up with the ball on their own seven. On the first play from scrimmage the right side of the Alumni line ripped through to nail the runner behind the goal line for a safety.
Another interception mid-way in the last quarter set up the final score. The Alumni defender ran the oval back 15 yards to the Off-Campus 24 yard line. Derivaux then carried the rest of the way for the touchdown.
Phil Meyer, another Alumni left half, ended the contest with the day’s longest run. He shot through the Off-Campus line for 42 yards before he was dragged down on the loser’s 10.
—Roger Fernandes, 54
Farley Rolls On
Making their scoring opportunities count, the unbeaten Farley football team
Del Gander is hit by a Hoosier defender but it*s too late, as the Irish fullback powers his way into the end zone from six yards out for ND's lone score of game.
tallied in each of the first two periods to down Cavanaugh, 8-0, and move into the van of the Interhall Eastside Division. It was the second straight victory for Farley.
Late in the initial quarter, Cavanaugh tried to punt on fourth down from deep
in its territory. A bad pass from center chased the punter back into the end zone where he was smeared by a host of Farley tacklers for a safety.
Leading 2-0, Farley ran the ensuing kickoff back to the Cavanaugh 27 yard line. Two ground plays moved the ball to the 16 from where Pete Chase tossed a beautiful pass to Mike Laughlan for the game’s only T.D. The conversion failed.
For most of the game the hard-charging Farley line kept the Cavanaugh attack stymied. Only once did the losers get a sustained drive going. At the start of the second half they took the kickoff and marched 79 yards to the Farley one. There the victor’s defense stiffened and they took the pigskin over on downs. Farley dominated play for the rest of the half and had another scoring drive going as the game ended.
—Roger Fernandes, 54
---------- SPILL THE SPARTANS
Oct. 27, 1950
27
----------SWAMP THE SPARTANS
Zahm Dumps B-P, 20-0
Coach Frank Amato’s Zahmites downed a battling Breen-Phillips crew by a convincing 20-0 count last week.
Illinois, No+re Dame 'B' Teams in Scoreless Tie; Fumbles and Interceptions Halt Offensives
The boys from Zahm started their scoring in the second quarter. Quarterback Jim Crowe threw a long pass to end Bill Reynolds, who made a circus catch and fell into the end zone. The extra point was blocked and Zahm led, 6-0.
In the third quarter, Zahm’s Jack Peters returned a B-P punt deep into enemy territory. Quarterback Crowe pitched to Bobby Brennan who in turn flipped to Gordon Taiclet and Taiclet carried across. Billy Sinozich ran over for the point after.
In the final stanza, Zahm scored again. Runs by Sinozich and Jack Peters brought the ball within striking distance. Crowe faded back to pass and finding no receivers open, elected to run with the ball. He scampered all the way for the final touchdown. Bill Sinozich again knifed over for the extra point to make it 20-0 and end the day’s scoring.—Joe Deiss, ’52
Tacklers Stop Robertson
Indiana's Robertson cuts in but finds his way blocked by a host of Irish tacklers. Gay (22) and Dunlay (71) move in while Flynn and Groom (50) handfight blockers.
Beneath a clear blue sky, the Big Blue of Illinois battled to a scoreless deadlock with Notre Dame in a “B” team skirmish last Friday afternoon on Cartier Field. Failure to capitalize on first half opportunities cost the embryonic Irishmen a possible victory. Three times Notre Dame drove within the Illinois 15 yard stripe only to have fumbles and an intercepted pass halt the marches.
Neither team presented an impressive offensive. Illinois gained 90 yards by rushing and the Irish did a little better with 110. But in the air, the Illini picked up 63 yards to far outdistance Notre Dame who had one six yarder and two interceptions to show for nine attempts.
Early in the first period, the Irish got possession of the ball on the Illinois 22. Two rushes carried to the 13 but the Mini’s Melenkas picked off an errant aerial to kill the drive. Six plays latei*
Notre Dame stole the ball on its own 46. Line plunges sandwiched between a pitch-out around right end and a quarterback sneak by Bill Gaudreau brought the pigskin to the Blue 15 yard marker. But the Irish lost the ball again when it slipped from the grasp of an Irish back and an Illinois lineman fell on it.
Midway through the second period, the “B” team launched another attack from its 45 yard line. On a sustained march of 49 yards, they slashed deep into enemy territory. Again came the fatal fumble, this time only six yards from pay dirt.
Now Illinois began to show signs of life. With aid of a penalty, a pass, and end sweeps, they surged from their eight to the Irish 15. Here the defensive line dug in and threw the opposition back for two successive losses as the half ended.
After the intermission, Illinois assumed command and kept the action almost completely in the Irish half of the field ‘ for the remainder of the game. On the second play of the final period, a Notre Dame fumble was recovered by the Illini on the home 30 yard line. Two plunges put the ball on the 19. Then Kuykendall, a 206-pound high school sprint champion from San Antonio, ghosted off tackle to the nine but a vicious tackle jarred the ball loose and Notre Dame recovered.
Tom Carter—who got off some fine kicks including one that angled out of bounds on the Illinois two yard line— punted out to the 45 but the Big Blue roared back to the 15 in four plays. The Irish line was in on the next snap-back and smothered Quarterback Henss on the 23. Again Henss faded to pass. He arched a high one deep into the end zone to his right end who grabbed it off the back of an Irish defender. However, the momentum of his leap carried him beyond the end zone boundary and the catch was nullified. With time fast running out the frustrated Illini essayed a field goal. The kick was straight and true but fell two yards short of the crossbar. Notre Dame took over on the 20, but could do nothing. The game ended as a long ND heave was intercepted and downed on the Illinois 45.
—Fran Meaney, ’51
SMASH THE SPARTANS
28
The Scholastic
SMEAR THE SPARTANS
' Kittell Ruled Ineligible For College Sports
Notre Dame’s cross country and track teams received a severe jolt last week when Jim Kittell, captain oi the cross country team and leading miler in track, was declared ineligible for any further collegiate competition.
The ruling stated that Kittell, who entered Notre Dame in January, 1947, ’ was not entitled to four years of intercollegiate competition under the wartime Freshman eligibility rules as was previously assumed. Since Kittell competed in cross country in 1947, ’48, and ’49 and track in 1948, ’49, and ’50, it was ruled he could not compete in either sport this year.
The decision was handed down by a committee headed by Tug Wilson, commissioner of the Big Ten Conference, after Notre Dame track coach, Alex Wilson—no relation to the commissioner— " asked for a ruling on Jim’s case. The Notre Dame coach brought up the matter when the University of Wisconsin, several days before last Saturday’s cross country meet, questioned Kittell’s right to run this year.
The eligibility committee apparently based its decision on the point that the class that entered college in September of 1946 was the last one entitled to varsity competition as freshmen. Previous to this, Notre Dame’s understanding of the situation was that Freshman eligibility ; ended in September of 1947, and there* fore, students entering in January of ’47 were entitled to a full four years of competition.
;	Coach Alex Wilson’s comment on
losing Kittell was, “Naturally no cross country team can lose its captain and number two man without being seriously affected, but I’m fortunate in having-some fairly good replacements who can move into the squad. I figure we’ll still win the meets we would have won with Jim, though they’ll be a lot closer, and lose the ones we would have lost, though by bigger margins.”
Last Saturday’s meet with Wiscon'in illustrated what Wilson meant—the Irish were beaten by a whopping 19-40 score. With Kittell around the meet would have still gone to the Badgers, but by a more respectable score of around 23-35.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51

No Secret
The secret’s out. It was a well kept secret, hidden under the exploits of great Notre Dame teams of the past four years. Just a few months ago, Frank Leahy had told anyone who would listen. But who would listen to Frank Leahy?
It took four games and two losses for it to get around. Now everyone knows that Notre Dame’s defending National Champions are just an average football Leam.
The general public are a doubtful lot. They couldn’t conceive of anything but a winning season for the Irish. Notre Dame football players aren’t human— they’re machines. That can only do one thing—win.
It must have shocked a lot of people to find that this wasn’t really true. Letters from home ask, “What happened?”
What happened? Notre Dame lost a football game just like any other team can lose a football game.
We’ve won games in the past because we got the breaks. There would be a day when we wouldn’t get the breaks and we wouldn’t be coming out on top.
Irish Can Win
Tomorrow we play Michigan State. We’re not supposed to win. But we can win.
Notre Dame has been fortunate the last couple of times they’ve played the Spartans. The scores don’t really indicate just how close the games actually were.
The breaks came our way and we made the most of them. Tomorrow the breaks may not come our way. We may have to go out and get them—manufacture our own. We have one big one already. The game is being played right here in Notre Dame Stadium.
Pro vs. College
Coach Earl Blaik of Army said more than a mouthful to Stanley Woodward in an article appearing in last week’s Collier’s. Seems Col. Blaik doesn’t think the pros play real football. It’s just a lot of showmanship, that’s all. Blaik
flatly stated that any good college team, ND included, could beat any pro team. Why? Because the college player is younger and more spirited than his older and experienced counterpart. The college lad is giving his all every second while the pro takes it easy, hoping he can pick up a fairly good sized paycheck for a couple of years without getting banged up in the process.
Col. Blaik might have something there. Why else would over 100,000 people jam the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to watch Notre Dame play Southern Cal while the Chicago Bears and Los Angeles Rams can draw only 26,000 or so in the same place? The obvious reason is that the college boys . play a brand of football that’s'more appealing to the fans. Col. Blaik just says the college boys play football.
Records May Fall
Bob Williams must be taking a cue from the pros in the way he’s been throwing the football this fall. So far this season Williams has tossed 104 passes.
To show how the Irish are relying on . passing this year more than ever before, compare these passing figures with the past four years. Johnny Lujack tossed an even 100 passes in 1946, 109 in ’47. In ’48, Frank Tripucka threw only 91. Last year, Williams did not pass the hundred mark until the eighth game of the season.
On the other end, Jim Mutscheiler has caught 19 passes so far this season. This is as many as Leon Hart caught all last year, and as many as any Irish receiver has caught in the last ten years.
With the emphasis on the ground attack a decade ago, it’s pretty safe to say that no one has caught more than 19 passes in a single Notre Dame season.
Prediction of the Week •
Maybe that break tomorrow will be a blocked point after.
Notre Dame, 21; Michigan State, 20.
----------SPILL THE SPARTANS
Oct. 27, 1950
29
Column Pleases
Editor:
Being a music student, it is only natural that one of my favorite articles in Scholastic should be “Music” now written by Jerry Morris. I have always turned to this article with great relish. . . . Hpwever, all last year the article was somewhat of a disappointment to me, inasmuch as the writer neglected to vary his reviews of records, etc., and thus, we had practically nothing but reviews concerning popular, hill-billy and jazz music.
Now, this was all right, but after all, despite the fact that there are many followers ... of this type of music, there is also a huge amount of admirers for good music, namely, classics and opera. . . ..
This year, I’m extremely happy to say, it’s definitely different. . . . Congratulations to Jerry Morris, who is, already, varying his articles accordingly, so as to
DONI in ROMANCE
Come to Arthur Murray's and learn the secret of good times . . .

ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE ST. Above the Copp Music Shop Phone 2-3339 for Free Trial Lesson	2 FOR 1 RATES NOW
satisfy everyone . . . and that’s what counts.
Joyce A. Kitts Denver, Colorado
Have a Squib
Editor:
Enjoy reading your fine magazine very much. It keeps up to date and is very informative. There is, however, one suggestion which I would like to make. A few jokes and anecdotes scattered throughout the magazine in my opinion would be appropriate. . . .
Dick Hull 258 Zahm
Look for “Scholastic Squibs” scattered throughout this and following issues. YThanks to reader Hull, and we hope these meet with everyone’s approval and enj oyment.—Editor.
• From the Carroll College Prospector: “LOST: Two meals; if found, please return to E. Burch and V. Demchok— address Immaculata Hall.”
Digestive research, no doubt.
What a pity that some people miss out on fun and popularity just because of their dancing. It’s so needless, too, when just one lesson at Arthur Murray’s can give you the secret to good times. Thanks to Arthur Murray’s exclusive “Magic Step To Popularity” you learn the key to all dances your very first lesson. Even beginners can dance in an hour. So don’t sit on the sidelines wishing for popularity. Come in to Arthur Murray’s now and be sure of it.	.
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
Tops In Pops
“The History of Jazz.” This Capitol album will be particularly interesting to those who really go for American Jazz. Contained in the album are outstanding sections like “Then Came Swing,” “The Modern Age,” and “The Golden Era.” Many of the great names are present: Goodman, Wilson, Kirby, Kenton, and Teagarden.
“Victor Herbert Favorites.” Beauty’s gift to the Metropolitan Opera and singing in general, Rise Stevens, records eight semi-classical bests with her usual warmth and expert singing style.
“A Square In The Social Circle.” A snappy album which gives Betty Hutton a chance to really cut loose. She booms, grunts, and hollers through some wild numbers, the best of which is Doctor, Lawyer, Indian Chief. This number, outlawed on the air, is one of the wild things that blasted Betty to stardom.
“King” Cole and wife Maria cut Get Out and Get Under the Moon for Capitol. Dinah Shore, who regularly turns out good records, comes up with a soft, sweet rendition of Can Anyone Explain? Dorothy Shay, the hillbilly from Fifth Avenue, visits gay Paree and comments very innocently and very amusingly on Mr. Berlitz.
Symphonic Check List
Tchaikovsy’s Francesca da Rimini is done in excellent taste by Jorda and the Paris Conservatory Orchestra. The standard recording done by Koussevitzky is for many a bit too stormy, while the Jorda set is restrained, yet full-blooded and stirring.
Rubinstein’s Falla and Mozart. Most people who ardently follow Rubinstein’s career don’t realize that the great pianist’s earliest recorded successes were Spanish music and Mozart. Nights In the Garden of Spain and a major concerto, Concerto 22, are good examples of exceptional performances.
And Opera
The always popular Rigoletto is RCA’s contribution to recorded operatic music. Jan Peerce is still hamming the Duke, both vocally and histronically, but Erna Berger, Italo Tajo, and Leonard Warren are outstanding and do well with Verdi’s music.
Recorded for the first time, Mozart’s sinspiel, The Abduction from the Seraglio is done to perfection by the chorus of the Vienna State Opera and the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Josef Krips. Krips demands the best and gets it.
30
The Scholastic
YEARS AGO
—By BOB FINNEY, ’53
Fifty Years Ago
From the Oct. 27, 1900 Scholastic: The first bi-monthly exams of the year were completed. “Those who did their best during the last two months and failed for lack of a system, or because they took too much work upon themselves, deserve sympathy.” . . . Although entrance qualifications for the College of Law were raised, the number of students enrolled was expected to increase from 70 to 100 during the year........... Captain John Farley, “outstanding halfback in the west,” scored two touchdowns and led Notre Dame to a 56-0 win over Cincinnati University.
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the Oct. 30, 1925 Scholastic: The annual Homecoming was set for the Carnegie Tech game. As in previous years some 2500 pounds of beef and pork were donated by O. A. Clark, dining hall manager, for an open-pit barbecue as part of the celebration. . . . The old Notre Dame jinx, fire, destroyed part of the third floor of Corby Hall, but was stopped before any serious damage occurred. . . . The Irish defeated Minnesota, 19-7, in Minneapolis as the student trippers looked on. ... In a survey of the campus newsstand in the Main Building, it was found that best-selling newspapers were the Chicago Tribune and the South Bend News-Times. The . Saturday Evening Post outsold all other weeklies, and Notre Dame students preferred Cosmopolitan and Redbook among the monthly magazines.
Ten Years Ago
From the Oct, 25, 1940 Scholastic: Student trippers were ready to leave for New York and the Army game the following Thursday. They would arrive at South Bend again early Monday morning. . . . Excavation began on the 565,000 Heat-Power Laboratory north of the Ave Maria printing offices. . . . The football roster showed 17 men who were eligible for the draft under the new draft laws; 841 students were registered, but engineering and medical students were to be deferred. . . . The Irish beat Carnegie Tech, 61-0 for their third straight win. .
• From the University of Portland Beacon: “Present plans call for the removal of the building during the summer months and landscaping of the area.”
Huh?
Oct. 27, 1950
Scholarships
(Continued from Page 19) containing a number. The student usually starts with three digit numbers and when he becomes proficient in seeing these and writing them down he moves on to four digit numbers and so on up to seven and nine digit numbers.
Since the light is flashed on at speeds ranging up to a hundredth of a second, the student has to learn to see the numbers, not as individual digits, but as groups. Practice with the machine increases his word span since it has been found that the skill in grouping developed operates independent of content. In other words, skill in reading groups of numbers rapidly may be transferred to reading groups of words.
Use of the machine is helpful in breaking down the habit of reading each word with the lips or throat, since the person who tries to do this cannot possibly read the numbers if he says each one.
A variation of this device in which an image was flashed on a screen was used during the war to train thousands of men in the armed forces to recognize aircraft. The instrument was also used by last year’s Washington-Clay basketball team to increase alertness and the ability to size up a situation in a split second.
Accelerator Helps Most
The Reading Accelerator, however, is the instrument which most students credit with helping them most. It consists of a descending panel which covers the page at a controlled rate. The student
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Office of Academic Affairs
Date.........................
Application for Scholarship offered in cooperation with the Office of Academ'c Affairs by the Foundation for Better Reading:
Name: .................................................................
(Last)	(First)	(Middle)
Campus or off-campus address: .........................................
College: ............................. Department: ..................
(Majoi)
Academic status:
( ) Graduate ( ) Undergraduate ( ) No. of semesters completed
Signature: ....................................
To be returned to the Office of Academic Affairs not later than Friday, Nov. 3, 1950
spends about half of his time working with this device.
He selects a book front the Foundation’s library which contains such novels as The Bridge of San Luis Rey, Main Street, and The Brothers Karamovoz and such non-fiction works as The Seven Storey Mountain, Baseball for Everyone and The Gathering Storm. In the front of each book is a calibration table telling what speed the Accelerator should be set at to cover a certain number of words per minute. This varies from book to book depending on the size of the page and type.
The Accelerator is set at a words per minute rate just a little bit faster than the student’s normal reading rate. At first this is uncomfortable, but soon the pace becomes the reader’s regular one. When he is able to keep pace with the Accelerator comfortably, the rate is boosted again. In this way the student gradually increases his reading rate until it is that of the instrument.
Since the Accelerator covers the page, the student is discouraged from wasting time and effort in regressing. He learns to absorb what he sees as his eye passes over it. It encourages him to make few-er stops per line, picking up thoughts rather than words and establish a rhythm in reading. He is discouraged also from letting his mind wander in the middle of a page. He forms the habit of concentration necessary for effective reading.
During the latter part of each hour of instruction- the student reads an essay on reading habits without the aid of the Accelerator. He times himself with a
stop watch to see if he is transferring his increased speed to other matter without mechanical aids. He then answers some questions on the material to see whether the degree and level of comprehension are also holding up.
When the course is completed the student takes many of the same tests that he took in the diagnostic, including the filming of his eye movements. He may then see which skills he has improved in -nost.
A number of Notre Dame students and faculty have taken or are taking the course. Mr. Edward A. Fisher, a professor in the Department of Journalism, who recently was re-called into the Army, took the course last summer and * had this to say about it: “I not only doubled my speed, but developed such a smooth eye rhythm that I can now read twice as long without eye strain. In other words, during the next year I will probably read as much as I totaled during the past four years. That’s saying a lot for only 20 hours of work.”
The Foundation for Better Reading is located at 114 E. LaSalle Avenue, next to the Aquinas Book Store. Anyone interested in the methods used may drop in for a demonstration of the instruments and techniques.
Cross Country
(Continued from Page 25) anybody’s guess as to the probable victor.
Last week, the first meet without Ki-tell, the squad took a lacing from Wisconsin by a 19-40 score. The presence of Kittell might have brought the score to more reasonable proportions, but • wouldn’t have changed the verdict much. The team covered the four mile Wisconsin course in as fast a time as any Notre Dame cross country team has ever covered the distance, but as Coach Alex Wilson told the men after the race you run to beat the opposition and not the clock.
Badger runner Dick Weitz won the race in a record breaking 19:47-5, while Notre Dame’s Benny Almaguer was second with an excellent 20:05. The Badgers showed their class by putting five men across the finish line before the next Irishman, Bob Feiler, came over in a fast 20:58. Then came John O’Connor, 21:03; Con Tetrault 21:07; Harry Snyder, 21:09 and George Gross, 21:43. George Helfenstein had to drop out during the race with a bad ankle.
• From the McMaster University Silhou-uette:
BORE SESSION
THURS., FRIDAY
■ Guess those seminars get on anybody’s nerves after a while.
32
The Scholastic
Air ROTC Names Seven As Distinguished Students
Seven Notre Dame students have been designated Distinguished Military Students in the Army Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. The names of the students were announced last week by Colonel Melie J. Coutlee, Professor of Air Science and Tactics here.
The seven students are: William F. Anhut, Detroit, Mich.; Thomas A. Di-gan, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Joseph M. Dukert, Baltimore, Md.; William H. Hagan, Lexington, Ky.; James Kittell, Missoula, Mont.; John F. McCarthy, Toledo, Ohio; and Robert L. O’Connell, Reading, Pa.
These students have completed three years in Air Science courses. They have an academic standing among the upper third of the students in their respective ROTC class and have an academic standing among the upper half of all students at Notre Dame. By demonstration of accomplishment and leadership in recognized campus activities of military leadership and high moral character, said Colonel Coutlee, they have distinguished themselves and are considered best.
Pro Red Bill
(Continued from Page 22)
Therefore it seems obvious that some sort of control of Communists is needed. Legislation on the books is not proving adequate, as recent cases demonstrate. The new legislation is the first effort in the direction of adequacy. Among the provisions of the law is one requiring the registration of Communist and Communist-front organizations. While this provision may, as some persons predict, “drive them underground,” it will most certainly do two things: (a) Deny to Communists the very real advantage of operating through organizations that wear the cloak of respectability. This will make it more difficult for the Communists to mislead innocent persons, (b) The registration feature will give some basis for action against subversive units not now possessed by enforcement officers.
The “Emergency Decision” portion of the act may appear drastic at first glance, and it may very well need amendment, but the judicial safeguards provided would seem to militate against unwarranted abuses.
This law does have “holes” in it. Amendment and even rather' complete revision may be necessary. However, some sort of control of Communists is called for, and America’s true interests (which should be our first consideration in this instance) would seem to favor rather drastic action. Liberty still is not license. We should not allow a minority group to use its Constitutional guaran
tees to destroy those of the majority. Imperfect as the law may be, it is at the very least a beginning point, an “ice breaker,” from which progress may be made.
Con Red Bill
(Continued from Page 22)
the Executive is trying to make the law appear ridiculous by enforcing it, and say that the responsible officers should use discretion. If discretion is wanted, why write such a detailed, specific, law? I hope that the Eighty-Second Congress will listen to the arguments that the Eighty-First refused to hear on the day it voted, and that it will re-write the law so as to make it attack deeds, not ideas. Then we can get on with the job. Then we can limit the police to taking care of disorderly and criminal acts. Then, as the Crusade for Freedom says, we can fight the Big Lie with the Big Truth.
Finance Club Meets
Jim Tetreault heads the Finance Club this year as president. Elections recently held in the Law Building also named Bob McGrath, vice-president, and John Farmer, secretary-treasurer. Jim Ghig-lieri presided over the meeting.
YOUR
Ordtr today .
. . or writ*
For Outdoor Workers
For the Former
SURPLUS WAREHOUSE STORE
2574 W. Qth Ave., Denver 4, Cola.
□ Please send me your free folder on outdoor values.
□ My size is (S) Small, (M) Medium, (1) largo.
Ideal for Perfect for Wonderful for Hunting	Skiers Spectator Sports
r
for FREE folder
SURPLUS WAREHOUSE STORE
2574 W. Sth AVENUE DENVER 4, COLORADO
TO HAVE
A GENUINE ARMY SURPLUS
PARKA COAT *19“
Two coats in one ... reversible outer Parka made of top-quality wind and water repellent poplin ... in like-new condition. The only coat of its kind on the market today! Two complete coats in one. Either may be worn separately or both together. Both coats complete for only $19.95, POSTAGE PAID. If you're not satisfied return within 10 days for a full refund.
WARM FUR-LIKE ALPACA PILE LINING MAY BE WORN ALONE!
Enclosed please find $.
—______________Parkas.
Jot
(NAME, PLEASE PRINT)
(CITY. ZONE, STATE) 'Writs for team and dub discounts totty/w c.q.da!
Oct. 27, 1950
33


Fables
Fable number one: Once upon a time there were three pigs who wanted to build houses for themselves. The first pig built a house of straw. The second pig built a house of sticks. The third pig built a house of reinforced concrete.
A big bad wolf came along and wanted, of course, to eat the pigs. So he huffed and puffed and blew down the straw house and ate the first pig. Then he huffed and puffed and blew down the stick house and ate the second pig.
But huff and puff as he would, the wolf couldn’t blow down the third pig’s reinforced concrete house. So the third pig sat by the vent which wafted central-plant heat through the house and laughed until he was crying.
Then the wolf got sore and made an atomic bomb and he set off the atomic bomb and blew up the third pig’s reinforced concrete house. He also blew himself up, but the blasted pig was done for.
Fable number two: Once upon a time there was a scientist who made the greatest discovery ever made by science. He sold his discovery and patent rights to a commercial outfit which began to produce a product based on the dis-

Every man on the campus is a human being. . . .
The Scholastic is primarily a news magazine. . . .
No one knows whether Thanksgiving is Nov. 23 or Nov. 30 this year. . . .
Nature Boy
The adjective “beautiful” is one readily disassociated with the noun Indiana. Especially the part of Indiana jn which the University of Notre Dame is set. But comes the Fall, and you almost have to change your opinion.
Maybe the Fall lends enchantment to almost everything. But it sure has helped this part of the country look more inviting. We had the good fortune to drive through part of the State last weekend, and some of the settings were really pretty. The traditional Fall colors are in full regale, and the reds, yellows, greens, and various shadings thereof are worth taking time off to peep at.
If you get a chance during the next couple of weeks, before the trees are all shed, we suggest a quiet stroll, even in the South Bend vicinity. Relax and take it all in. Might even help the digestion.
False Advertising
There was a guy on campus who wanted to have his suit pressed. It was Wednesday and he was going home on Saturday and he only had one suit and he wanted to have it cleaned so he could go home.
He remembered seeing a yellow slip stuffed into a shirt in his last laundry bundle. The yellow slip told him to patronize his campus cleaning service and he would have his cleaning done and returned to him within three days. So he patronized.
Came Saturday and the guy wore a pair of suntans and a T-shirt home. He got his cleaned suit back from the campus cleaning plant the following Wednesday—a week after he turned it in to be cleaned.
This is an extreme case, needless to say. But the fact is that the campus cleaning service advertises weekly to each student that his cleaning will be done within three days. Sometimes, if you’re lucky, you can get your suit back in six days.
The Last Word
Halloween is Tuesday; and Wednesday is All Saint’s day and a free day for ND students.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
covery.
The commercial company made a million dollars every six months for ten years. The scientist ended his life on an ante-bellum assembly line, licking postage stamps.
Observations
The stretch of LaSalle Street between Michigan and Hill sure is bumpy. . . .
October is possibly the most pleasant month of the whole year in this part of the country. . . .
Last Friday night’s concert and lecture offering was the Coro Hispanico. They did an absolutely beautiful job. . ..
The signal light at the St. Mary’s crossing on the Dixie spends most of its time furiously blinking red and yellow. Nobody driving a car even sees it any more. ...	.
The Student Council is climbing toward the position of top campus organization. . . .
Radio station WND is hoping to get new equipment soon, so it can provide experience for radio neophytes. . . .
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan
Phone 3-0903
Special T-bone Steak every Thursday — $1.25
34
The Scholastic
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend Uy appointment Ph. 4-5661
rOMMEN WOMEN AND CN1LD1UN
209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to
Notre Dome
for more than
25 years.
Good semester starters ... handsome, long-wearing Arrow whites. Crisp ... fresh ... tailored right. In campus-approved styles including the “Dart” (non-wilt collar), the widespread “Par” and the button-down Gordon oxford. On every campus the country over ... and at your favorite Arrow dealer’s now.
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs ADLER’S for ARROW
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Oct. 27, 1950
35
Oas stage plQy .
-1
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER-JAVA, VA.
0
anr"^^»lpmed.
Chesterfield the MILDER cigarette''
erring jn "born vrc V

let R.O. M< CORMICK tell you hour to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
Jit YOU buy a pack of Chesterfields and you open it up.
B YOU smell that milder C* YOU smoke Chesterfields tobacco aroma. No and prove what every other cigarette has it. tobacco man knows...
tobaccos that SMELL MILDER-SMOKE MILDER
Copyright i9So	____
““-ubsTomc^
Chesterfield t Smells m« • * -