3 ■
DotreDa.n>e i ScbolasWfc

VOL. LVII.
OCTOBER 5, 1928.
No. 3
15 Cents the Copy
$3.00 the Year
6
>

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notify AeUfaton
the Lifetime vat
amtt tetter, ad
Wisdom
About the most foolish expenditure a college man ever makes is to buy a cheap fountain pen. Sheer -waste! Lifetime0 is the college man’s pen because it is dependable always. LIGHTEST TOUCH starts its ready ink flow, yet three clear carbons can be made at one writing, due to its remarkable nib. And it's guaranteed unconditionally for a lifetime! Faultless service—and no repair charges, ever. It boasts a beauty as thrilling as its perfect performance. And the Titan pencil offers like reasons for the preference of every wise buyer. "Lifetime’’ pen, 98.75	Lady “Lifetimt", 97.50	Othereloetr
’Lifetime” Titan avenue penal to match, $L25
SHEAFFER’S
VZPEN5 • PENCILS • SKRIP^^X
W.A.SBEAREK PEN COMPANY • IOKTMADB0K10WA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
65
SOUTH BEND’S ORIGINAL LOW PRICED CAB COMPANY
INDIANA
^e£uxe
Cab Company
Call 3-7147
Call 3-7147
Reliability! Safety! Courtesy!
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Smartest Writer
Smartest Looker!
Use Parker Duo fold Ink and Parker Duofold Leads in pens or pencils of any make to get the best results
Geo. S. Parker Offers Also, Pressureless Touch, Non-Breakable Barrel, and a *Guarantee Forever Against All Defects
Never before have modern style and efficiency been so combined in a fountain pen.
36 years’ experience, 47 improvements, 32 pen patents, five modern, flashing colors are represented in this one pen.
Barrels of Parker Permanite are 28% lighter than rubber, yet non-breakable.
Through Pressureless Touch, a Duofold eliminates all effort. The feather-light weight of the pen itself starts and keeps it writing. No pressure from the fingers—no strain—no fatigue.
On each barrel find and read the imprint,
"Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD.” That is the only way to be sure you have the genuine.
In a special test in 55 colleges the Parker was voted the favorite pen. You’ll agree when you’ve tried the modern Duofold. Do it now, at a near pen counter.
Parker Duofold Pencils in colors to match pens, $3, $3.50 and $4.
*To prove Parker Duofold is a pen of lifelong perfection, we offer to make good any defect provided complete pen is sent by the owner direct to the factory with 10c for return postage and insurance.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin OFFICES AND SUBSIDIARIES: NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO ATLANTA • DALLAS ' SAN FRANCISCO TORONTO. CANADA • LONDON. ENGLAND
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
&T
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
CHEAP USED BARGAINS
Students interested in good five and six tube sets at ridiculously low prices—see us.......
Atwater-Kent and others in excellent condition at $5 to §20. Also fine used S25 speakers at §5 each.
’77
Set
NEW
Requires NO Batteries
ATWATER KENT $40 ALL ELECTRIC
Marvellous tone—Big volume (210 volt output) Radio’s Truest Voice
'Oa-0c S. MICH. SOUTH BEND
GYM SHOES SWEAT SHIRTS
BERMAN’S
“If it comes from Berman’s it must be good.”
126 North Michigan Street
RADIO	RIFLES
..	n —	--- --------0
LET US PLAN YOUR CLUB BANQUETS AND PARTIES
Quotations Gladly Furnished.
Hotel LaSalle
Soibth Bend’s Neivest Hotel
&
J. KENNETH QUALLEY—’27 JOS. E. WHALEN—’29
68	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THAT’S the telephone“Hello”in Madrid. In London, it’s“Are you there?” But in many foreign countries, Americans find a universal language in the telephone salutations. It’s good old “Hello”—a subtle tribute to the fact that the telephone is an American invention.
And so it is with elevator service. Even though they say “Diga” in Spain, the architects of the magnificent new Madrid Telephone Building unhesitatingly said “Otis” because Spain demanded the last word in elevators. You will find in Madrid the same type of Signal Control Elevators that are now installed in those monumental telephone buildings in America, in New York, Cleveland, St. Louis and San Francisco.
Offices in All Principal Cities of the World
70	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WAY COLLEGE MEN WOULD RUN A CLOTHING STORE
That’s the way we’re running this business
Plenty of style; the models the university leaders wear; the best dressed suits you see worn by the young men at fashionable resorts and clubs.
Charge accounts to young men who make themselves known to us as responsible.
Prices that fit young purses.
Hart Schaffner & Marx suits	.
with 2 pair trousers
$35	$40	$45
and other 2 pant suits, $25 to $65
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
THE NOTRE D AM E SC H OLAST I C	71
3^91.=-	=
I
1872
-■ - -----------------------------------------------
Gfic	r
Notre Dame -Scholastic 1928
Disce-Qya^i-^emper-Viciuruy-Vivc- Quasi-Craj- MorSurus
JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29.................Editor-in-Chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, ’29. .Business Manager
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, ’29.....Managing	Editor
VINCENT McINTIRE, *30 Ass’t Managing	Editor
JOHN BERGAN, '31...........Netos	Editor
JOHN DeROULET, ’29 .....Literarg	Editor
DANIEL D. HALPIN,
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’30.. Sports Editor CYRIL J. MULLEN,’30...........The Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29..The College Parade
JAMES J. WALSH, ’30........Music and Drama ’31........................Club Editor
NEWS STAFF
MURRAY YOUNG, ’29 JOHN A. GILTINON,’29 MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30 BAYARD KURTH, ’30 GILBERT PRENDERGAST, ’30
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31 JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31 THOMAS A. GANNON, ’31 THOMAS R. ASHE, ’31 EMIL TELFEL, ’31 JAMES J. HEARNEY,’31
BUSINESS STAFF
JOHN D. HICKEY,’31
PAUL HALINAN,’32
JOHN KIENER, ’32
JAMES COLLINS, ’32
MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 ...Foreign Adv. Mgr.
HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
CHESTER M. ASHMAN, ’30...Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, ’31
EUGENE J. CARLIN, ’29
JOHN BLANDA, ’31
VOL. LVIL	OCTOBER 5, 1928
No. 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week__________________________Cyril A. Mullen________________ 72
Next Week’s Events________________________________________________73
Student Trip Plans________________John A. Kiener----------------- 74
Sophomore Cotillion Program-------John Bergan_____________________77
The Campus Clubs__________________Daniel D. Halpin--------------- 78
The Editor’s Page____________________________________.-.__________79
The Broken Doll, (A Short Story)....James L. Callahan ____________ 80
If I Might Live Again (A Poem)____John de Roulet ________________ 84
Notre Dame Vanquishes Loyola______Harry A. Sylvester_____________ 85
Interhall Football News __________John H. Zuber _________________ 87
On The Enemy’s Trail______________J. Gilbert Prendergast_________ 89
Splinters From The Press Box______________________________________91
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building. '
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men


72
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
As a measure of self-defense it is necessary to state the obvious factAhat the Week could more aptly be termed The Semester, or at least, The Month. Because of certain mechanical limitations The Week is usually, by the time of publication, as out of date as a three day old death-notice. If the events treated herein have an aged or mildewed atmosphere clinging about them, console yourself with the thought that reading it is good memory practice.
The campus has been shaken to its very foundation, and the students have been cut to their respective quicks, because of the preference shown for freshmen by the maids behind the iron fence. After consulting the files of the Scholastic, we find this to be the first year since the Dome was gilded that St. Mary’s has had a Sunday afternoon tea dance for the purpose of welcoming back their platonic boy friends. That the invitations should be issued only to freshmen, after the year that juniors and seniors have spent in paying good-will calls on Sunday afternoon is thought to be very irregular; something worthy of an appeal to the S.A.C. Exact details are meagre. All we know is that the favored few, after having their invitations and prancing a bit, left and returned. They have, ever since, been as secretive and hurt-looking as an aggregation of victims to the seal of Confession about to be hanged.
Normalcy is never really attained on the campus until after the annual Freshman-Varsity game of tag, Hello-Week, and the Mission are over. As is usually the case the Freshmen showed “promise”, particularly a high stepping person named Brill, who has a talent for whacking prospective tacklers on the head. And as is also usual, the regulars displayed a good sense of humor. We suspect that Walter Eckersall that idol of all Notre Dame men, was the unconscious cause
of a lot of ragged football. He must, as a conscientious sport writer, find himself befuddled. For reports of the Freshmen-Var-sity game always have it that Notre Dame has the poorest material in years; that the campus is in gloom, and that Rockne is sobbing himself to sleep every night. Then a month later, the same team without any sense of proper decency proceeds to wallop some of Walter’s pets.
“Hello Week” was notable for its lack of hellos. If one may use the term without running the risk of being called an eleven-letter man, it is an interesting view of campus psychology. The campus boys would almost rather be accused of being intelligent than of being docile. Consequently when the “Hello” signs go up, the students go self-conscious. The more optimistic start a greeting, hesitate and finish with a weak gurgle. And the intended recipient either frowns at the ground or displays an interest in the horizon. Even roommates are said to experience some em-barrasment in greeting each other with the usual boyish gusto.
Stiff necks and nervous disorders followed the last week-end. You can look at some of the girls all of the time, and at all of the girls some of the time, but you can’t look at all of the girls all of the time. At least, not at a football game. We admit a crick in the neck but on excusable grounds. We saw a classic blonde munching a redhot.
The game, of course, accounts for the nervous disorders. Not until Butch Niemic plunged over the line with a nonchalance becoming to Butch, was there any sign of something in the stands and then it was a dazed sort of sanity. But even after the impossible finale, it was hard to forget that Freddy Collins, classiest of classy fullbacks, is out with a broken arm.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
73
* NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS *
•	SATURDAY—Football—University of N o-
tre Dame vs. University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, 2 p. m.—Gridgraph, University Gymnasium, 2 p. m.—October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
with more than four hundred persons in attendance.
An innovation, in the raffling of a football box was held during the evening. The box was won by Joe Hiss, a senior from Stockton, California.
The dance was highly successful and the ladies in charge are to be congratulated.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and High Mass, 9:00; 8:00 Mass for Off-Campus students—Wranglers Meeting, Public Speaking Room, Walsh sub. Meeting of Metropolitan Club, Badin Hall “Rec” room. Connecticut Valley Club meeting, 10:00—Interhall football games, 10:00 and 2:00—October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY—A. I. E. E. initiation of new members, Badin Hall “Rec,” 8:00—Akron Club meeting, 7:30 p. m., Badin “Rec.”
TUESDAY—Toledo Club meeting, Badin Hall “Rec,” 7:30 p. m.—Knights of Columbus meeting, Council Chambers, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—West Virginia Club meeting in Badin Hall “Rec,” 7:30 p. m.—Dante Club meeting, Badin Hall “Rec,” 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY—Annual Initiation Banquet, Engineers Club, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 7:30 p. m.
FRIDAY—Meeting of Grand Rapids Club, Badin “Rec” Room, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY—Student Trip special to Chicago for the Notre Dame-Navy football game, 10:00 a. m. Football game, Notre Dame vs. U. S. Naval Academy, 2:00 p. m., Soldiers Field. Victory Dance sponsored by the Chicago Club of Notre Dame, Stevens Hotel, 8:00 to 1:00.
- -------<•----- .
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE HELD
The first Scholarship dance of the year was held Friday evening at Playland Park
CHICAGO CLUB DANCE TO FEATURE NAVY WEEK-END
When the student body takes the trip to the Navy game on Saturday, October 13, it will not lack entertainment after the struggle according to announcement made this week by President Collins of the Chicago Club.
This prominent campus organization, successfully cooperated with the alumni club of Chicago last year after the Southern California game, in giving a similar affair. It plans to again aid the older group in sponsoring a huge banquet and dance to be held at the Stevens Hotel the evening after the game.
The Grand Ballroom of the hotel and the Main Dining Room have both been reserved for the activities.
Abe Lyman and his celebrated orchestra from the show, “Good News,” will furnish the music for the occasion.
This announcement is made early because the officers of the Chicago Club declare that no tickets for the dance alone will be sold at the door.
Tickets for the dance are three dollars and may be procured by the students early next week from the following men:
Sorin—Michael McGeogheghan.
Badin—Tom Purcell.
Corby—Bill O’Malley.
Sophomore—Roy Enright.
Morrissey—Joe Munizzo.
Howard—Vincent Cavanaugh.
Lyons—Benedict McShane.
No representatives of the club have been appointed in Carroll, Brownson, or Freshmen halls as yet, but bulletins will be posted soon in these places telling from whom the tickets may be obtained.
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K. OF C. INSTALLS OFFICERS.
At a meeting held last Tuesday in the Council chambers in Walsh Hall, the newly elected and appointed officers for the present year were duly installed by the District Deputy. After the impressive ceremony of installation, the officers of the new regime made known the plans for the ensuing year. They expressed the absolute necessity of co-operation in order that their endeavors might not be futile
VERNON J. KNOX 1	.
Their first big plan is to bring John Philip Sousa and his Band to give a concert at the University on December the fourth. This undertaking should be of interest to everyone whether he be a Knight or not as it is bringing into our midst a nationally known bandmaster with music that is not surpassed by any other organization of its kind in the country. The Concert will be held both in the afternoon and evening with a different program at each session.
Plans were also discussed for the erection of the Union Building which is to be built by the Knights of Columbus for the general welfare of the entire student body. The materialization of these plans is but in the offing and active work in the construction of the building should begin in a comparatively short time.
The officers that are appointed by the Grand Knight were introduced for the first time, as officers, to the members of the Council. They are Vernon J. Knox, who fills the important post of Financial Secretary. John Dorgan succeeds Edward McKeown as Lecturer. And the Rev. Eugene Burke, G. S. C., who fills the office of Chaplain, which was left vacant by Father Gal-lagan since his removal to St. Thomas.
--------«--------
All Canadian students are requested to send in their names and addresses to Walter Stanford, 305 Walsh, for the formation of a Canadian club at Notre Dame.
STUDENT TRIP PLANS ANNOUNCED
The Notre Dame-Navy game at Chicago, Saturday, October 13, has been designated as the official student trip by the S. A. C., acting with full approval of the University officials.
A special train will leave the New York Central station in South Bend at 10 o’clock Saturday morning, returning about midnight the same day. Prices for the trip will be $3.65 round trip for Saturday only, or $4.25 round trip for the week-end. The $4.25 tickets will be honored on any N. Y. C. train leaving Chicago for South Bend any time Saturday or Sunday. Tickets will be sold Wednesday and Thursday, October 10 and 11, respectively, at the candy store opposite Science hall, from 1 to 5:30 p. m.
Only those students residing in Chicago may obtain their week-end permissions in the regular way. Students who live elsewhere than in Chicago, and desire to stay over until Sunday night, should confer with their Rectors immediately concerning regulations governing such actions. Students must present to the Rectors, game and railroad tickets, at the time permission is requested. All week-end permissions begin Saturday morning and end Sunday at midnight; all students must be in their respective residences at that time.
--------$--------
MURRAY YOUNG HEADS SCRIBBLERS
Murray Young, a senior in the A.B. School of the University and a prominent campus writer, was elected president of the Scribblers for the present year, at a meeting held last Monday night. During the course of the evening the feasibility of running a literary quarterly was discussed. Papers were also assigned to Murray Hickey Ley, Arnold Williams, and John de Roulet.
The Scribblers wish to announce that writers desirous of entering the organization must send their names and qualifications to Secretary Cyril Mullen, 308 Lyons. An election of new members will be held on October 15.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
75
LAW COLLEGE NOTES
The enrollment in the College of Law is larger this year than ever before, according to Dean Thomas F. Konop. In 1927 the total registration was 188, this year the college has 223 students, an increase of 18%. The •ffeshman class has 119 embryo lawyers in it; the second year class numbers 51; and there are 53 in the third year class.
■■ <£*
Judge Dudley Wooten will be unable to expound Torts and Legal Ethics to his budding barristers for three or four weeks. The judge is ill and is confined to his home. Dean Konop and Professor Clarence Manion have taken charge of his classes.
Due to an unintentional oversight on the part of the Scholastic the name of Dean Konop was not mentioned last week in the list of Notre Dame faculty members who have been honored by “Who’s Who.” The Dean made the select circle of the few who have been listed in the book about eighteen years ago.
NEW STAFF CHOSEN FOR NOTRE DAME “LAWYER”
Thomas Hopper, of Dayton, Ohio, has been chosen Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer, the magazine of the College of Law. Robert Eggeman, of Fort Wayne, is Business Manager. The staff has been organized and Judge Wooten, Professor Clarence Manion, and Professor Elton E. Richter have been designated as the faculty board of advisors.
There will be eight issues of the Lawyer, the first number appearing some time in the middle of this month. It will contain a notable article by Mr. Obenchain, a prominent barrister of South Bend, and a member of the law firm of Jones and Obenchain. His article will be entitled “Liberties of all Liberties” and will prove exceptionally interesting as it will treat of a subject that is of vital interest to every voter and citizen, the injection of religion into the present political campaign.
LOYOLA HOP SUCCESS
Approximately two hundred couples attended the first football dance of the season given Saturday evening in the Knights of Columbus ballroom in honor of the Loyola and Notre Dame teams.
The dance which was sponsored by the Junior class proved to be most enjoyable and the committee in charge report that the dance was financially a success.
The music for the dance was furnished by Art Haeren and his Cotton Pickers.
The officers of the Junior class are: President, Robert Hellrung; vice-president, John Moran; secretary, Dan Welchons and treasurer, Bernard Conroy. -	-
------------------
STUDENT DIRECTORY OUT SOON
The Student Directory for 1928-29 will be released within the next few days. The directory this year contains the name of every student in the University, his home address, school address and classification.
The more prominent names on the campus this year, according to the directory are: Murphy, O’Brien, Smith and Collins. The directory will be on sale at the newstand and the cigar counter of the University cafeteria.
❖
❖ IS YOUR DAD AN N. D. MAN? ❖ »j.	 %
❖ Sons or brothers of men who have been grad- ❖ ❖ uated from Notre Dame are asked to stop in at ❖ ❖ the Alumni Office, next door to the book store, ❖ ❖ and leave their names with James E. Arm- ❖ ❖ strong, Alumni Secretary.	❖
❖ The November issue of the Notre Dame ❖ ❖ Alumnus will contain a list of the names. The ❖ ❖ Alumni Office knows of many such men on the ❖ ❖ campus and asks the cooperation of the stu- ❖ ❖ dents in making the list complete. Don’t leave ❖ ❖ your father or your brother out. Stop any ❖ ❖ time during the next week or so. The class- ❖ ❖ mates of your father and brother will get a ❖ ❖ kick out of your name.	♦
❖ ❖
76
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SOPHOMORE MEETING HELD
The Sophomore Class held its initial meeting of the year, Tuesday noon in the gymnasium, for the purpose of discussing plans for the Cotillion.
The meeting was in charge of Ted Huebsch, general chairman of the committees. The date for the dance was announced as October 26, the night before the Drake game, at the Palais Royale.
Frank McGreal, ticket chairman, announced that the ticket sale opens tomorrow and all sophomores planning to attend are urged to secure their tickets as soon as possible from one of the following members of the committee in the various halls:
John Raleigh in Walsh hall; Gordon Salmon and Joseph Munizzo in Morrissey hall; W. J. Taylor, Frank McCullough, and Nord-hoff Hoffman in Sophomore hall; and Michael O’Brien and Matthew O’Brien in Lyons hall.
All off-campus sophomores may secure tickets from Frank McGreal, 112 Sophomore hall. The ticket committee urges all off-campus men to obtain their ducats as early as possible.
The sophomore class officers are: Thomas Conley, president; James Doyle, vice-president; Paul McEvoy, secretary; Bernard Lea-hey, treasurer.
POLICEMAN DALY KILLED BY STREET CAR
Apparently struck and instantly killed by a street car, William Daly, aged 30, a member of the Notre Dame police force, was found dead beside the car tracks on Notre Dame avenue near Cedar Grove cemetery, early Tuesday morning.
The body was found by J. F. .Bell, motorman on the first car out that morning. Identification was established by Chief James Kennedy of the Notre Dame police force.
Coroner Carl C. Reifeis of St. Joseph county conducted an immediate inquest and found that death resulted from a fractured skull sustained when the victim was struck by the street car, whose operator was probably unaware that an accident had occured. It was also determined at the inquest, that
Daly, when found, had been dead at least six -hours.
Daly, before his appointment to the police force, was formerly janitor of Morrissey and Walsh halls. He had a large coterie of friends among the faculty and student body, and his loss will be keenly felt.
A Requiem High Mass was celebrated for the deceased yesterday morning in Sacred Heart church. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was the celebrant and members of the Notre Dame police force in full uniform acted as pallbearers. Burial was in Cedar Grove cemetery.—R. I. P.
ARMSTRONG AGAIN HONORED
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, has been appointed to take charge of the program for the members’ banquet of the American Alumni Council, to be held next summer in Canada. Mr. Armstrong is vice-president of the council, which is composed of alumni secretaries and magazine editors from the United States and Canada. He is also Director of District Five of the Council.
CUT SYSTEM TO BE STRICTLY ENFORCED
Students, hereafter, will find, as many already have, that the system of recording cuts is not the same as in past years, The Academic Council has decided to keep an immediate check on the absences from class.
A series of cuts in any class or an abundance of them in several of the courses will result in the instant calling of the student before the Council. Those who have. been cutting classes with little or no regard as to the consequences will find it difficult to explain when they are summoned before this Council.	-
--------e--------
The first smoker of the year was held Monday night, October 1, in the Faculty Dining hall, by the Law Club. Dean Konop and Professor Kirby addressed the meeting, which was well attended. The matter of a benefit dance for the “Lawyer” was discussed, while the subject of an emblem or charm for the members of the Law Club was also brought up. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	77
SOPHOMORE COTILLION PLANS
The Sophomore Cotillion, the first formal class dance of the year will be held Friday ?	evening, October 26, in the Palais Royale
*	ballroom of South Bend. Negotiations are
being carried on with several of the leading dance orchestras of Chicago to play for the affair.
President Thomas Conley has appointed J the committees and the date is set for what promises to be the best Sophomore Cotillion in the history of the University. The Sophomore class numbers more than 700 students and a. good attendance is expected.
The Cotillion, in many respects will be one ' of the most colorful dances held at Notre Dame this year. Dancing will be from nine to one. Due to a decision of the faculty dance committee, all upper-classmen will be excluded from the dance and only sopho-£ mores in good standing will be allowed to attend. ■
According to initial plans the Sophomores and their guests -will occupy a special section at the Drake vs. Notre Dame football game on the Saturday following the dance.
a Tickets for the affair will be placed on sale Monday in the various halls and can be procured from any member of the ticket committee. No tickets will be sold after October 23 so it is advised to secure the pasteboards early. The price this year is three dollars.
The following men will constitute the Cotillion committees:
Ted Huebsch, general chairman.
Tickets—Francis J. McGreal, chairman;
/ John Raleigh, W. Jeffrey Taylor, F. Sher' man McCollough, Norduff Hoffmann, Gordon Salmon, Michael O’Brien, Joseph Munizzo and Matthew O’Brien.
Publicity—John Bergan, chairman; Raymond Conners, Thomas A. Cannon, Don A. Beaton, .Arnold Beibel and Arthur H. Kno-2 block.
Music—William Felvey, chairman; Vincent Bush, Arthur Wallace and William Kerrigan.
Programs — Carl Waltman, chairman; Lawrence P. Kral and Ray Manix.
Floor—Jack McNerney, chairman; Jack Hughes, Albert Maloney and Sidley Graine.
Decorations—Robert L. Baer, chairman; Phillip Angsten, Joseph Kirby, Francis J. Chambers, Joseph Vertasnik, Ronald Zudeck, Howard W. Moloney, Gerald J. Desmond, Joseph Keough, Edward Phelan, and William Cassidy.
FRACTURED WRIST KEEPS FREDDIE COLLINS OUT OF LINEUP
The condition of Freddie Collins, who suffered a fractured wrist after playing only a few minutes in the Loyola game, is reported by attaches of the St. Joseph hospital, as good, but the injury will keep him from further playing during the next few weeks.
Collins’ collegiate career which had been one of the most promising of the entire football squad is thus halted for the second time since he first donned the Irish uniform. Two years ago at Minneapolis against Minnesota Freddie suffered a broken jaw which removed him for the remainder of that season. Last year a knee injury kept him out for a short time.
His loss to the squad will be keenly felt and his presence in the lineup again is hoped for very shortly by the students.
LIBRARY ACQUIRES SHERIDAN LETTER
The Lemmonier Library is now in possession of a letter written by General Phil H. Sheridan, while he was a cadet at West Point in 1849, to his sister Margaret. This original document was procured by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. former vice-president of the University, this summer when he was in Somerset, Ohio.	•
It is very evident that this letter was never meant for publication because he mentions the fact that he is in debt to the extent of nineteen dollars and doesn’t expect to get out of it.
Anyone desiring to read this letter may do so by getting in touch with Mr. Byrne, the librarian.
78
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K5B5H5H5a5a5H5B525E5B5a5H5H5a525HS2525HE25BEHS25E5H525a5B5a5HE2SHSB52525H5HS2525H525BSH52SH52525Bg I THE CAMPUS CLUBS - - - By Daniel D. Halpin g S5E5Z5B5?5E5HSB5H5B5H5E525H52525HHn5B5E5H5E5H5E52525H5B5B5ESE52Sa5H5E5ESEEa525E535H5H5B5a525B5E5£]
PHYSICAL EDUCATION MEN
With a prospective enrollment of 90 men who are majoring in Physical Education, the Notre Dame Phy Eds met Tuesday evening for the purpose of organization. A Constitution was introduced and accepted, also the Club voted to become affiliated with the American Education Federation.
New quarters for the men are being outfitted in the Carroll Gymnasium Building. Throughout the year men prominent in Physical Education and Athletics will address the members.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB SESSION
The Indianapolis Club held its first meeting of the year Sept. 26 in the Badin Hall Rec room. The following were installed as officers for the coming year: William O’Connor, president, William Craig, vice-president, Robert Marshall, secretary and Wilfred Habing, treasurer. After the transaction of routine business the Christmas Dance committee was appointed by President O’Connor.
THE BOSTON CLUB
The second meeting of the Boston Club was held Sunday. President Gerald Crowley announced the appointment of Mr. Charles Colton, class of ’28, as chairman of the Dance Committee. The committees have been chosen, and plans for the first annual dance to be held in the Copley Plaza during the Christmas Holidays have been formulated.
WISCONSIN FORMAL
Wisconsin men met Tuesday, October 2, in the Law Building to consider plans for the Annual Christmas Formal. Details will be announced in the immediate future. This year’s officers are: J. La Boule, president; William Brown, vice-president; A. Baldabini, treasurer; and Henry Porter, secretary.
AKRON CLUB
Among the more popular social events held in Akron during the summer months was a series of informal dances sponsored by the Akron Club of Notre Dame at the Brookside Country Club. Chair man of arrangements, Claude Horning, and his assistants were especially successful in obtaining some of Akron’s best known orchestras for these enjoyable parties. The widespread popularity of the Club dances was justly indicated by the large number of out-of-town guests who were present at each affair. .
After completing such a successful vacation program, the officers of the Club wish to announce that the inaugural meeting will be held in the Badin Hall Rec. room, Monday, October 8, at 7:30 P. M. All members of the Club are urged to be present and to encourage all new men from Akron and adjoining cities to attend. At this meeting plans will
be made in anticipation of a banquet to be held in the Faculty Dining Room, accompanied with the pleasure of hearing some prominent campus speaker. Committees for the Annual Christmas Formal will be appointed and details concerning this affair will be discussed.
The officers of the Rubber City organization are: Virgil P. Cline, president; Paul Berthsch, vice-president; Andrew Snyder, treasurer; and Lawrence H. Halter, secretary.
VILLAGERS MEET
The first dinner meeting of the Villagers Club was held Monday evening, October 1, in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle. Francis Jones, the club ■ president, conducted the meeting at which there was an attendance of sixty members.
A new plan has been adopted by the club this year in presenting a prominent member of the Notre Dame faculty and also a member of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association. The Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, Dean of the Department of Physical Education represented the University. He delivered a very excellent talk, and in particular, stressed the importance of aiding the Freshmen who are living off campus. Mr. A. Livingston, president of the Alumni group gave an interesting talk on college life during his school days here in 1884.
Committees for the various activities were appointed for the year. Entertainment by the Dolly Dancing Trio and Jay Walz, pianist, marked the termination of this very successful gathering. November 5 was announced as the date of the next meeting of the South Bend group.
PITTSBURGH INAUGURAL
Possibilities for a reception to the Carnegie Tech rooters were discussed at the first meeting of the Smoky City boys, held on Monday evening in Badin Hall. The officers who will guide the destinies of the club for 1928-29 year are president, Bernard Conroy; vice-president, John Kissane; secretary, Hugh Gallagher; and treasurer, Richard O’Donnell.
MINNESOTA CLUB
Three meetings have already been held to date by the Minnesota men. Arrangements are being completed for the annual Christmas Formal to be held in Minneapolis this year. The Alumni group, whose invaluable aid made the club’s Summer affair so successful, has assured the club that they will gladly co-operate in making this year’s dance the most outstanding of holiday gatherings in that section of the country. Thomas Donovan, John Flahey, Albert McKay and John Eldredge were named to serve on the favor and program committees for the affair.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP
It was edifying to note the generous applause the students gave the Loyola team on Cartier field last Saturday. We may be sure that the men from Loyola appreciate it. There was a noticeable absence of booing and hissing when opponents got the “breaks”, and there was enough balance to the cheering to show that Notre Dame is a generous opponent.
In a week, there -will be a general departure for Chicago for the Navy game. Probably the majority of the student body will attend the clash. There will be over a hundred thousand people there, which proves that Notre Dame is a great crowd getter. These spectators will not only carry away impressions of the game with them, but they will also have some comment on the behavior of the Notre Dame student body. Give , the crowd a good impression.
Chicago likes Notre Dame. Our teams have been modest in victory and generous to the defeated opponent. We have also learned to take defeat with a smile, and we can congratulate the victors as readily as their own i rooters.
If the game developes any questionable decisions, spare the booing for some other day, and replace it with a courteous silence. Give each eleven your best cheers, and help them both along. Let the Navy team know that < we admire them, and let our own team know that we are fighting for them. If we can do that, we will have proved to the world that Notre Dame is capable of scoring off the football field as well as on it.
STUDENT COOPERATION AND THE S. A. C.
For many years the Student Activities Council of the University has served as a medium for effecting student government. This organization is composed of nineteen
representatives elected from the various classes and colleges of the University. The duties of the committee are to better student life and exercise supervision over campus activities.
The success of the Student Activities Council in former years was due to the whole-hearted cooperation given it by both faculty and student body. The purposes set forth in its constitution best explain the reason for its establishment. (1) To provide an effective channel of communication between the undergraduate body and the University authorities; (2) to exercise a general supervision over student activities, organizations, traditions, and customs; (3) to encourage sane undergraduate opinion. Now these aims can only be achieved by the realization on the part of the students, that this council is acting for the good of the University as a whole. Without the full confidence of the undergraduates the success of student government is impossible.
The idea that the S. A. C. is an organization to represent the student body as a bargaining union against the faculty must not be entertained. The chairman is making an appeal for constructive criticism, confidence, and cooperation, in the hope that the student body will respond willingly. It is up to them whether or not the Student Activities Council shall successfully perform the functions for which it was established.
SMOKING
Within the next few days, the S.A.C. will have signs placed on the quadrangle requesting the students not to smoke on that particular section of the campus. One of the oldest traditions of the university prohibits smoking on the quadrangle, and the students are requested to observe the tradition and wait until they are past the limits before “lighting up.”
80
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
-------LITERARY --------
The Broken Doll
A Crisis and Its Passing
JAMES L. CALLAHAN
TIM MCCARTHY felt weak as he closed the door of the construction shanty. He leaned against the small guard fence and watched the men crawling around like ants as they worked in the deep foundation pit of the new Union Terminal. His ears still rang with, “No, Tim, I can’t use you now. I’ll call you when we start the construction, but I can’t say when that will be.” Inside the office Bull Walsh, chief of the iron workers, laid down the blue print he was reading. He turned to the chief engineer, “That fellow’s a good man,” he said, “a hard worker and a square shooter. I would put him on right now if there was anything to do. Best man I had on the last job.”
Tired of watching the busy workers while he himself had to be idle, Tim turned away and walked down Euclid avenue. Where would he go? What would he do? He hated to go home and face his wife and kiddies, to tell them that he failed again; but there was nothing else to do. There was no work. If there was, he would have found it long ago. Hadn’t he tramped the city dozens of times? Wasn’t his name on application blanks in all the shops and factories? What else could he do? A rasping horn startled him; a strong arm pulled him back into the crowd, and a loud voice demanded:
“Say, are you blind? Can’t you read? D’ya wanta get killed?”
Tim looked up at a burly policeman.
“I’m sorry,” he said.
He waited until the signal light flashed and then walked across the street. He stepped out of the crowd and leaned against a building. Hundreds of shoppers and office workers rushed by him, but he saw none of them.
This rush, this noise, this very air annoyed him. He wanted to get away from it all, and yet he seemed helpless in his circumstance. He was frightened because he was out of place, and he knew it. He longed to be where he belonged; high above the crowds. He was safer, much safer, on the twentieth story of a steel skeleton building, where the air was fresh and the only sounds were the rhythmic poundings of rivet machines, the regular clicking of pulleys as huge beams were being hoisted, and the merry laughter of the men as they worked.
At the sound of the noon-day whistles he shouldered into the crowd. He was going to eat, but he didn’t know where. He would not go home. As he walked along, someone bumped him. He moved over. He was bumped again, this time almost pushing over a woman and child. He turned angrily.
“Say!” he demanded, but he broke off quickly. “Why, Jack Trainer! You old buzzard, how are you?” he exclaimed as he recognized an old pal.
“Well, Tim! What’s news?”
They shook hands in the middle of the street.
“Nothing much. Where were you headed for in such a hurry?”
“Going to eat? I’m near starved.”
“So am I.”	,
“Well, come on along. I know a swell place just around the corner. We can talk there in peace. We’re holding up the procession here.”
The two hurried away and in a short time were at the restaurant. It was a clean place, Tim reflected as they entered. It was crowd ed with the noon-day rush, so Tim prepared
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to wait until a table was vacated.
“Come on,” called his companion as he weaved his way between the tables. Tim followed. They stopped before the last of the booths that lined the wall and Jack pushed aside the curtains and motioned for Tim to enter. “My private room,” he explained as they slipped off their overcoats. “I eat here every day.”
They took places at either side of the table.
“Well, let’s see what they have today,” Jack said as he picked up the menu. Then, in answer to the waiter’s query, he said, “Make mine veal cutlet. What will you have Tim? Same? All right—make it two of veal, and lots of rye bread and butter.”
After the waiter left, Trainer leaned back in his chair.
“What have you been doing, Tim? Still punching hot rivets ?”
“Not now, Jack. I’m loafing. Been out of work since last spring.”
“What? You’ve been out of work all that while? That’s tough! How’d you manage to keep going?”
“I didn’t. I had a couple of odd jobs, but they petered out. Marie managed things pretty well, but I’m in debt up to my neck. I----”
“Not much building?”
“Not a darn bit, Jack. I thought I could find something down at the depot, but they haven’t started the steel yet. God! I’d do anything to get a job.”
Jack studied him for a moment. He started to speak, but stopped when the waiter entered with their food. The two men ate in silence for a moment.
“Say, Jack, you haven’t said a thing about yourself. What are you doing?”
“Oh, I’m still with the same bunch. You know, the old gang you were raised with.”
“That crowd—they still—” Tim hesitated, his cheeks colored, “—they still running around together?” he managed to say.
Jack smiled.
“Yes, the same old bunch, doing the same tricks, only we have a real organization now. We’ve been running booze all year, but occasionally we do a big job.” He paused a minute, then leaned over the table and said in a
81
low tone, “Listen, Tim, you said before, you would do anything. Will you—”	•
“I said anything to get a job,” Tim broke in.
“Well, this is a job, a real job. It’s—”
“No, Jack, it’s useless. You know we argued that out once before.”
“Oh, come off your horse,” retorted Jack, “it’s the old gang—Lefty, Burke, Christman, Leonard—you know them all. They’d be glad—”
Tim jumped up. “Listen, Trainer, you know that I don’t do that sort of thing. I’m no dirty—”
The other paled; then an angry flush covered his face. He rose quickly and reached for his pocket. He hesitated. The color slowly left his cheeks and his lips fell again into that formal smile. Taking Tim by the shoulders, he forced him gently to his seat.
“Sit down, Tim,” he said slowly. “You’re nervous. Cool off and finish your meal. Then we’ll talk.”
Tim slumped down in the chair. What had he done? What had he said? Wasn’t Jack an old friend of his? Weren’t they raised together, and didn’t they lead the old gang together? Wasn’t that the same bunch Jack wanted him to go with now? He needed money—needed it desperately. Money would pay off his bills: the groceries, the rent, the insurance—everything. It would hold him until he found another job. Wasn’t Jack trying to help him? Why had he hurt him? All these thoughts raced through Tim’s troubled mind as he mechanically finished his meal. After he had eaten, he hesitated to look up. Jack was watching him closely, he knew. He could feel the piercing gaze of his eyes. A few moments passed. Finally he looked up. He tried to say something to break the tension, but the words stuck in his throat.
Jack smiled. “Forget it, Tim,” he assured him. Don’t let a little thing like that bother . you.”
“Thanks, Jack, but—”
“Never mind. You just sit still and listen to me. Now, we’ve been pals for years, Tim, so I’ll speak straight from the shoulder. You need money, don’t you?”
“Yes.”
82	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“You need it in a bad way, and you need it quick?”
“Yes.”
“Well, now, you need money and I need a man; a man like yourself. I need him just as bad as you need money, and, I—am—willing —to—pay — big — money — for — that— man.”
“I suppose, but I’m not—”
“Wait until I finish, then you can have your say. Here’s the dope. We are going to take over the American Manufacturing Company. They pay the day after tomorrow; their payroll averages about $300,000, and—they—pay—in—cash! That money will be brought in tomorrow about five-thirty, in the company armored car. They transfer it tb the safe, where it will remain until eight o’clock, when they make up the payroll. That’s where we come in.”
“But how?” broke in Tim before he could check himself.
“That’s easy,” Jack continued. “There is only one man on guard while the others are out. It’s easy to put one out of the way.”
“How will you get in the building?”
“I’m coming to that now. Lefty is driving for them; he has the late turn and is always the last one in. Tomorrow night we will hide under the canvas in the back of his truck. There will be Burke, Christman, Leonard, myself, and—and one other. After Lefty drives in, the night watchman locks up. We can get the watchman by surprise. He’ll never know what happened. His keys will let us through the entire office and shop. The office building is just across the alley-way from the garage. Once in the office, we are sitting pretty. The guard will not expect anything, so we can get him easily. Their safe is a standing joke. We will have an hour to work on the tin box. If Christman can’t make the tumblers click, then we will have to bum the hinges. I have a handy acetylene gun with quarter size tanks. One man can carry the whole outfit easily. That’s where I need you, because you can handle a torch better than any man I know, and speed is what we’ll need if we can’t work the lock. After we break the box and get the dough, we leave by the back way. Their mill room
is working overtime, and we can mingle with the workers when they leave at 7:30. We can grab any card to punch the clock, and Lefty will be waiting for us across the street in a car. We will take the acetylene gun with us; it is small enough to slip in your pocket. The hose and tanks we will leave there; they can’t be traced. We split even and it’s all over. The whole thing won’t take more than an hour, and it’s safer than buying Liberty bonds.”
He sat back in his chair, lit a cigar and said, “What do you think of it?”
Tim hesitated. The plan fascinated him. He could not pick a flaw in it. He smiled to himself when he thought of the torch. Certainly he could handle it. Wasn’t he one of the best in the city? After a few minutes he said, “Well, it sounds good.”
Jack swelled.	’
“Of course it’s good. All my plans are. They work, too. But how about you handling the torch?”
Tim couldn’t face his friend. “I— I— you see — ” he stammered, “Marie wouldn’t—”
“Say, you’re in a bad fix. You’ve admitted that. Your wife and kiddies can’t wait forever for you to find work.”
“I know I need the money, but—”
“But what? If you would only use your head you would have around $50,000 tomorrow night to tuck away. I could pick up fifty fellows who—”
“Why don’t you?
“Why don’t I? Because you are a squareshooter and can hold your tongue. Besides, 1 would like to help you out of your trouble. You’re a plain fool to turn down my offer.”
“Are you sure it will work?”
“I know it will. I’m engineering it.”
“How about the night watchman and guard—won’t they be armed?”
“Sure, but Burke, Christman and Leonard can handle them—those boys know their stuff. Listen, Tim, I’m not asking you to join us; it’s just for this job. You will help me as much as I help you.”
“Well—all right—I will, but—”
“That’s fine. I knew you could see it my way. Now I’ve got to see the boys. I’ll call
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
83
you around eleven tomorrow and you can come over to my place to look over the gun.” He slipped into his coat. “Don’t forget! Tomorrow around eleven. So long.” The curtain parted and he was gone.
A half hour afterwards, Tim rose slowly and put on his coat. What had he done? What if they were caught? What would Marie think? He shuddered. They couldn’t be caught I Marie must never know I
That evening after supper Tim tried to appear as unconcerned as possible. He studied his little family. His wife sat on the davenport opposite him. She was busy mending the children’s clothes. Tim watched her closely. Her hair was carefully done up; her housedress was spotless. She was a good wife, he reflected. Hadn’t she stuck by him through all his troubles ? But they wouldn’t have to worry now. Tomorrow night he would have enough money for all their needs. He watched the children. Junior was playing on the floor with his train; Betty was trying to cut out a new dress for her doll. He smiled. They would have more toys now, His little family would be happy. They would never know—they would never know.
Tim slouched down in his chair. Methodically he reached for his pipe, filled the bowl, lit it, propped his legs on the footstool and picked up the evening paper. He glanced at the first page. Murders, robberies, divorces—black heads stared out at him. He shuddered and rapidly paged through the paper to the “Help Wanted” section. He scanned the columns of ads. There was no demand for iron workers. He sighed. It was no use. Half-heartedly he made a note of several other ads that he intended to follow up. Then, nervously, he threw the paper aside. Marie looked up; she watched him a minute.
“Please don’t worry so, Tim,” she said anxiously. “I know things will turn out all right. I just feel that something will happen tomorrow.”
“I hope so,” he replied weakly. “If she only knew,” he thought to himself as he picked up a magazine.
“Junior, dear, turn on the radio for mother” she said to her son. As he did, a
voice sounded from the loudspeaker: “This is WTAM speaking*. We are taking time out from our regular program to announce that the Eddy Road branch of the Savings ana Loan was held up today and $25,000 was taken. The following is a description of the five men who took part in the robbery. Anyone who can give any information—”
Tim jumped up and shut off the station.
“Why did you do that?” asked his wife.
“Oh, I—I thought I would try some other station for a change,” he replied as he fumbled with the dials. She watched him.
“You are nervous tonight, Tim. What is the trouble?”
“It’s nothing, Mother, only I’m getting so tired of doing nothing. I’ve got to find work. I can’t stand this idleness any longer.”
“Would you care to go to a movie?” .
“No.”
“Or go over to see the O’Briens?”
“No—not tonight. I don’t feel—”
Then why don’t you slip in bed and get a good night’s sleep?”
“I believe I will.” He kissed his wife and left the room.
The next day Tim was up early. He started to work around the house. He cleared the snow off the walks, put away the screens, cleared the basement, and did several other small jobs to occupy his time. After the work he felt better. He bathed, and had just finished dressing when Betty came running to him. She was crying and in her arms she carried her Mamma doll, its head broken.
“Look, Daddy,” she sobbed, “see what Junie did?”
“Let Daddy have it,” he asked. “Now you run and get Junior. Tell him I want to see him.”
When the children entered the room, Tim was sitting on the bed, still holding the broken doll. He looked up. The boy hung his head and shifted from one foot to the other.
“Junior,” said Tim, “why did you break Betty’s doll? Haven’t I told you many times to leave her things alone?”
“Gee Dad, I didn’t mean to, honest. We were playing in the front room, I was a robber and I knocked the doll over when I was
84
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
trying to get away from the cops.”
Tim paled slightly; the doll nearly slipped from his hands.
“You were playing robber?—You knocked it over, making your escape?—”
“Yes, Dad.”
“Well, be careful. You will knock the house down some day. Now tell Betty you are sorry, that you hope she will get—”
The phone rang. Tim put the doll down. As he stepped into the hall to answer the phone he glanced at the clock. It was five minutes to eleven. He picked up the receiver.
“Hello .... Yes. . . . Right away?. . . . All right.”
He set the phone down slowly.
“Junior,” he called, “where’s Mother?”
“She went to the store.”
“Then run and get daddy a pencil and paper while he puts on his coat.”
Tim sat down and wrote hurriedly— “Dear Mother,
“Just had an important phone call. Don’t wait supper for me. I will probably be late.
“Tim.”
Leaving the note on the table, he kissed Betty, waved “goodbye” to Junior, and went out.
It was after nine when Tim returned that night. He was excited when he entered the house. His overcoat bulged from the package he was carrying inside.
“Everything is 0. K., Mother,” he shouted as he fairly lifted his wife out of the chair to kiss her. “We needn’t worry any more.”
“What is it, Tim.”
“I have a job,” he replied as he slipped off his coat and tossed the package to Betty. “My old boss, Walsh, called me this morning while you were away. I am to be a gang foreman. I have been studying the blue prints until now so we can start work tomorrow.”
“’Oh, look Junie!” Betty exclaimed, “Daddy fixed my broken doll.” .
“ If I Might Live Again”
If I might live again, and having once
Been dead, I should be wiser than my kind -Is wont to be. I—having known the hunts
In cool, green woods and granite hills—should find More joy in living than I sought before;
More happiness in watching with the wise
Than racing with the swift, the young. Nor Would I dream of old loves and young eyes
As once I dreamed. Nor would I match my speed With time, and learn how sad it is to fail, To feel my swift limbs weaken and to need
A younger arm than mine, a hand less frail, To point the path before my dimming eyes— For having twice been young, I might be wise.
—JOHN N. de ROULET.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
85
Wolf pack Battles Gamely In 12-6 Defeat
Back to the South the Wolfpack goes, still
yard penalty aided the men from the South-
defiant, still proud. It came near accomplishing what a generation of great teams have failed to do—lick the Irish terrier on his home lot.
land. Loyola then punted out of danger.
By now the Irish were aroused and with Elder and Shay doing most of the ball carrying twice came down the field deep into Ma-
lt almost succeeded but not quite. It roon territory only to lose the pigskin, once shook the lofty	on downs and once
throne of tradition and almost toppled it in the dust; and many were the times when the men of Notre Dame knew not whether to cheer or pray, and compromised by doing both. The Southerners led at the half 6-0, but the Gold and Blue led at the end 12-6.
When the Maroon wolves took the
on a fumble. Only the lack of a sustained attack prevented the Gold and Blue from scoring.
The tide of fortune shifted suddenly and an exchange of punts gave Loyola the ball on the Irish 45 yard line. Failing to gain through the line Lopez hurled a beautiful 35 yard pass to Drouilhet who was
field it was evident that the reports of their size had not been exaggerated, and when the game began it was also evident that the stories of their prowess were altogether true. For- it was a great team that Clark Shaughnessy put on the hallowed turf of Cartier, great as individuals; almost as great as a team. Big, fast, and powerful, they rambled from the opening kickoff to the closing gun.
It was early in the game when.the Gold and Blue first learned the mettle of the men opposed to them. A slashing Irish offensive had carried the ball deep into Maroon territory. The pigskin changed hands twice on breaks and it was the Rockmen’s ball on Loyola’s six-yard line. Four plays the Irish flung at a stonelike Maroon line and four times they were stopped, although once, a five
playing at end on this particular play. Three downs put the ball on the Notre Dame one yard line, and on the next play Lopez took it over. The try for point failed and Loyola led 6 to 0 as the gun ended the half.
The Irish came out for the second half with blood in their eyes. Loyola received the kickoff but found the Rockmen impregnable and were forced to punt. Drouilhet’s kick went out of bounds on his own 45 yard line. Two plays gained five yards for the Irish, when Mr. Elder, the Kentucky Colonel, took it into his head that the time to ramble and ramble fast had arrived. Tucking the ball under his arm he headed for the sideline only to cut in sharply off tackle and breeze past the line of scrimmage like a frightened antelope. In a flash he broke
3
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
toward the side line again as two very earnest, maroon-clad tacklers loomed before him, only to cut back again towards the center. On he sped to the ten yard stripe where the Wolves’ safety man awaited him. Abruptly he reversed his field and started for the opposite side line on a long diagonal to finally plant the ball in the end zone for the tying score.
The ball seesawed back and forth with Loyola threatening several times. Once a fumbled punt gave them the ball on the Irish 12 yard line but Captain Miller and his mates displayed the same sterling defense which has characterized Notre Dame goal line stands in the past and averted what looked like a certain score.
About the middle of the last quarter it really began to look as though the Maroon would score a moral victory by tying the Irish. Late in the game Rockne inserted that veteran tosser of passes, Johnny Niemic. John O’Brien, the sandpaper-fingered Californian playing his first game for the Gold and Blue went in at left end shortly after and promptly snagged a pair of Niemic’s deft tosses to place the ball deep in Loyola territory. After two running plays had failed to score a third pass over the goal line was batted into the field of play by a Loyola man thus averting a touchback and costing the Gold and Blue only a down instead of the loss of the ball. It was fourth down and about two yards to go to score. The reliable Niemic rose to the occasion and slid through a small hole off right tackle for the winning touchdown as the Irish stands hit the sky. Shortly after the game ended with Loyola punting in the shadow of its own goal posts.
Although the Maroon was strong in almost every position it was her hard-bitten center trio led by the stocky Jaubert who were outstanding. Jaubert played the full game and caused plenty of trouble as did his side partners, Galle and Ritchey.
Leppig and Miller’s fine play in the line, Elder’s flashy running. Niemic’s accurate passing and Chevigny’s excellent all-around play featured the Irish victory.
The Gold and Blue did not escape entirely unscathed for Freddie Collins, the hard-driving first string fullback, snapped his wrist breaking up a Loyola pass play. He will be out of the lineup indefinitely. He seems to be the original hard-luck boy. Two years ago he broke his jaw in the second game of the season with Minnesota and was out for the year.	’
It was possibly the hardest opening game that a Notre Dame team has ever played. Many a more highly-touted eleven has failed to give any such battle as did these men from the sunny South. Notre Dame men may rest assured that another great team bears the banner of Gold and Blue, for only a great team could have beaten the “Wolfpack” last
Saturday.
The lineup:
NOTRE DAME	LOYOLA
E. Collins............L. E............. Miller
Miller [C.]...........L. T.......... Pronithet
Leppig................L. G.............. Galle
Moynihan.............. C.............. Jaubert
Law...................R. G............ Ritchey
Twomley...............R. T.............. Sehrt
Vezie.................R. E............   Allen
Carideo...............Q.	B....•......... Lopez
Mullins...............L. H.............. Budge
Dew...................R. H.............. Moore
Shay..................F. B........... Maitland
Substitutes: Notre Dame—Brady for Carideo, Elder for Mullins, Chevigney for Dew, F. Collins for Shay, Listzwan for F. Collins, Donoghue for Twomey, J. Cannon for Law, Niemic for Elder, Nash for Moynihan, Morrissey for Brady, Colerick for E. Collins, Doran for Donoghue, Murphy for Vezie, O’Brien for Colerick, Ransavage for Miller, Christianson for Carideo, Leahy for Christianson, Conley for Murphy.
Loyola—Cooper for Galle, Tetlow for Budge, Bo-nura for Drouilhet, Maitland for Weddle, Decell for Tetlow, Keiffer for Ritchey, Blasi for Allen.
Summary: Passes attempted: Notre Dame, 18—5 completed, 2 intercepted. Loyola, 3—2 completed, 1 intercepted.	•
Yardage gained by passes—Notre Dame, 39; Loyola, 2.
Touchdowns—Lopez, Elder, Niemic.
Officials: Eckersall [Chicago], referee. Schommer, Chicago, umpire. Daniels, Loyola [Chicago], headlinesman. Kearns, DePaul, field judge.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
87
THE BADGER THREAT
It certainly appears as though the intel-ligensia of sport, in forcasting the prospects of the leading elevens of the country, have failed to pay due consideration to the big, powerful Wisconsin team. Perhaps the most underrated aggregation in the Western Conference, but surely one of the most dangerous, the Badgers will take the field at Madison to-morrow, determined to kick the fighting Irish off the field, over the fence, and out of the park. For many weeks the Cardinal huskies have been working out strenuously at historic Camp Randall, priming themselves for this opening contest.
In many respects the Badgers will have a decided advantage over their guests. They will enjoy great superiority in weight, having a team which tips the scales in the neighborhood of 190 pounds per man. That their backfield men are fast and shifty is a known fact which is causing enemy coaches in the Big Ten considerable worry these days. And then of course, the game will be played on Wisconsin’s home field in the presence of howling rooters, inspiring coeds, and other influences which have come to be associated with the great American game of football.
The Badger squad this year is the largest in the history of the university, eighty-five men reporting for practice. Of this miniature army, eighteen are lettermen from last year’s team, and a very large percentage of the remainder saw active service as members'of last season’s reserve and freshman teams. It is apparent, therefore, that the Wisconsin coaching staff, which almost rivals the squad itself in point of view of numbers, has a wealth of material to work with. The Badgers will be led this year by Rube Wagner, a veteran tackle, who won his way tb the captaincy by his hard, smashing, lineplay. This gentleman may be responsible for much of the hard, determined resistance which the Badgers are determined to offer their opponents tomorrow. Another player who will bear close watching is Smith, who, according to whispers in conference circles, ought to develop into another Joesting in a short time.
The Wisconsin coach, Glenn Thistlewaite, is a man whose name has always been respected in the annals of Notre Dame football history. Thistlethwaite will long be remembered as the mentor who elevated Northwestern to the heights of its gridiron ambitions, the championship of the Western Conference. Last season, his initial one at the Madison institution, he encountered but a fair degree of success; but this year, with the whole-hearted support of the players and student body behind him, he is expected to produce wonders. He is ably assisted by Tom Lieb, the old Notre Dame star, whose name will always bear an honored place in athletics at this university.
This game should be a thriller in all respects. It will furnish conclusive proof as to the innate ability of Rockne’s 1928 eleven, whose fighting qualities were unquestionably demonstrated last Saturday against Loyola. The contest will attract nation-wide interest, for it will be the most important fray of the week-end.	—J. G. P.'
POTENTIAL STRENGTH. SHOWN AS TEAMS PRACTICE; INTERHALL OUTLOOK BRIGHT.
With the preliminary practice games over, the various coaches have a week to whip their teams into shape for the official opening of the Interhall grid season to take place Sunday, October 7. The prospects seem rosy to many of the hall mentors and equally dark to others, for the openers brought out some very fine and some extremely poor football. The upperclass halls of Division II. naturally showed up better, for while they have had no longer to prepare, they are accustomed to Interhall tactics and, in the case of several teams, the men composing the squad had played together the previous year. Lyons has several of last year’s Morrissey squad fighting for a place on its team; the present Morrissey squad is, in the essence, the team that carried Howard’s colors last season; while Sophomore’s Maroon eleven has drawn its personnel almost entirely from the championship squad put on the field by Freshman Hall. These teams stand head and shoulders above the rest on the merits
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“—and, Dad,
that last quarter was a thriller. With only a minute left to play our big right half broke loose and ran thirty yards for the touchdown that won the game.”
“Son, that must have been great. I can almost see it, you make it so realistic. I do enjoy your telephone calls.”
There is no need to lose intimate touch with folks at home while you are away. They are interested in everything you do, so telephone home every week. The rates are low and charges may be reversed.
Begin today— make telephoning home a major sport.
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
V	— j
of their showing Sunday and, while it is a bit early for predictions, look like the real class of Division II.
The play of the Division I teams brought out some real football but the greenness of the material was painfully apparent. Unlike the more experienced teams of Division II co-ordination and teamwork were sadly lacking and most of the games were affairs of individual effort. Another week will probably reverse the story though for the potential strength displayed can, under skillful coaching, be easily turned into football machines of note.
Next week’s games and the fields on which they are to be played follow: 10:00 Lyons-Corby—Varsity Practice Field.
10:00 Bronson-Howard—South of Gymnasium.
10:00 Freshman-Walsh—Minim Field. •
2:00 Badin-Morrissey—South of Gymnasium. 2:00 Sophomore-Off Campus II.—Minim Field. 2:00 Carroll-Off Campus I.—Varsity Practice
Field.
A short resume of the practice games follow:	•
LYONS, 12—FRESHMAN, 0
Displaying a nice running attack and occasional flashes of a deadly aerial game the Gold Coasters romped at will over the defenses of the yearling outfit to win just about as they chose. The Lyons team was working exceptionally smooth for so early in the season and looked like a good bet for a top position in its division.
MORRISSEY, 18—BROWNSON, 6
A smashing line attack that quickly wilted the light line of the Arabs was the deciding factor of the Scholars’ one-sided victory over the Main Building outfit. Coming to life after a pass and two line smashes had put them on the short end of a 6-0 score, Morrissey let her steam roller loose to rapidly roll up three touchdowns and cinch the game.
CORBY, 6—HOWARD, 0
The reserve strength of the He-Men proved too much for Howard and they succeeded in shoving over the needed six points late in the third quarter when the yearlings’ defenses first weakened. Howard came back strong in the fourth quarter but the stubborn defense of the Corbyites thwarted their best efforts.
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
89
€«,^X
Home of Paramount Pictures
ON THE ENEMY’S TRAIL J. G. p.
4 DAYS SAT. SUN.-MON.-TUES.
You’ll Hear Great Music— You’ll See a Great Picture— “Four Sons”
—With—
MARGARET MANN
Geo. Meeker, Francis X. Bushman, Jr., Charles Morton and James Hall.
The most amazing upset of the season so far occurred at Annapolis last Saturday when a squad of burly Mountaineers from Davis-Elkins College sank the Navy ship by the score of 2-0. Evidently Bill Ingram and his associates underrated their anticipated cannon fodder. A bad pass by Hughes, the Middie center, resulting in a blocked punt which rolled into the Navy end-zone, was responsible for the lone score registered by the West Virginians.
But this game cannot be fairly accepted as a true indication of the Navy’s real strength, for there were many reasons, both physical and mental, which can account for this opening defeat. The midshipmen may be counted upon to make a better showing to-morrow against the Jesuits of Boston College.
Big as the Heart of Humanity'
SEE AND HEAR The Vitaphone Specialties
HOMER DICKSON
Also
GENE MORGAN BAND
FOX MOVIETONE NEWS
KNUTE ROCKNE
and This Year’s Football Team.
One glimpse at the Army schedule will reveal that the old mule has plenty to kick about this year ; but it also appears from the way the cadets manhandled Boston University in their 1928 debut, that the mule has plenty of power in her kick. The final score was 35-0, which merely indicates that the Army has an abundance of reserve strength. Oui-old friend, Cagle, that red-headed nightmare, seemed to have had quite a field day.
DAYS
WED.
>	THURS.-FRI.
Paramount’s Two Delightful Lovers
FAY WRAY
and
GARY COOPER
—in—
“The First Kiss”
Also
SEE AND HEAR on the Vitaphone
FRED ARDATH
ROSE & TAYLOR BAND
Paramount News
Penn State chastised Lebanon Valley to the tune of 54-0; while Carnegie administered dire punishment upon Westminster, the box score being, 32-6. But neither of these elevens has even approached its real power as yet, nor does it appear that they will have to reveal their full strength in next week’s contests. Penn State will confront the Gettysburg bullets, while the Tartans frolic with Ashland College.
Far out on the Pacific coast, the Trojans of Southern California crushed the Utah Aggies, 40-12. From this score, it seems that Howard Jones is in the process of turning out another of his mighty teams. This game will serve to prime the Trojans for their first important tilt of the present season, when Oregon State will oppose them on the Los Angeles field tomorrow.
----$---
Neither Wisconsin, Drake, or Georgia Tech have resumed gridiron hostilities as yet; but the Badgers have elected to entertain the Irish at Madison this week-end. Drake will remain inactive for still another week in preparation for its opening fray with Marquette on October 13. However, Georgia Tech will pry the lid off its schedule by playing its first game of the season against the Virginia Military Institute at Atlanta this week.
90	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Rene Dunand 206 Morrisey Hall
Was the lucky guesser of the Loyola-Notre Dame score and won the
in merchandise
Stop in and guess on this week’s game
*
South Bend’s Store for
N. D. Men

$4^5
Week end rate to the
NAVY GAME
Take the South Shore Line (trains every hour on the hour —LaSalle and Michigan, across from where the Notre Dame street car stops) direct to the Stadium. Special $4.25 round trip week end rate—good on all trains from noon Friday, October 12, to and including midnight train out of Chicago Sunday night, October 14. 7 A. M. flyer out of South Bend the day of the game will go to Roosevelt Road (Stadium gate) in 2 hours—carries dining car. 10 A. M. train carries parlor. Call Traffic Department, 2-5764, or Ticket Agent, 3-3111 or 3-3112.
South Shore Lines
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC -	91
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ ❖	H. A. S., JR.	*
*♦* *♦*	*♦* V V *♦* V V V V V *♦* V V V V *♦* V *♦* V
In a recent interview Jesse Harper termed Rockne “the greatest coach in the game and the second greatest character builder among coaches?’ No one should know better than Harper. He coached “Rock” for three years and then had him as an assistant for four more.
❖ ❖ #
Jaubert who played so well for Loyola last Saturday attended Notre Dame as a freshman three years ago.
“It isn’t how big you are but what you can do with the little bit you’ve got.”
By a singular conincidence the Captains of both Loyola and Notre Dame bear the surname of Miller.
We are still looking forward to the day when the names of the men who ran interference on a long run will flare in the head lines rather than that of the ball carrier.
Predicted score of tomorrow’s game:
Notre Dame............................13
Wisconsin............................. 0
TO THE GAMET
ALL—college days and football games—masculine shouts and feminine trills— scurrying leaves and the smell of rain in the air—off to the game with SAWYER’S SLICKERS for everybody—for true to the American spirit of sport no games are called and all attend, be the weather as wet as Canada. And SAWYER’S Frog Brand Slickers are true enemies of the Great God Pluvius.
A SAWYER Frog Brand Slicker is one of the prime necessities of the college wardrobe. Guaranteed absolutely waterproof, lined or unlined, buttons or clasps, a variety of styles for every purpose to please the most fastidious student.
Sawyer’s Slickers are obtainable at men’s stores, haberdashers and detriment stores Get yours—TODAY
H. HE. SAWYER & SOW
EAST CAMBRIDGE	MASSACHUSETTS
92
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ELEC IS
Ready and IRdlling
Electricity is a useful public servant because it is dependable and ready at your call, day in and day out.
It is this Company’s duty to keep its service ready.
It is our desire to do more, for the more useful we can be, the better for all concerned.
To this we add the human desire to make our list of customers a list of friends.
Indiana & Michigan Electric Company

Recommended by ENGLISH DEPARTMENT of Notre Dame, Ind.



WEBSTEWS COLLEGIATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary—Based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL A Short Cut to Accurate Information. Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it. A wealth of ready information
largest selling quality pencil in ike would,
17 black degrees
lil

on words, people, places, is instantly yours. 106,000 words with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations and use in its 1,256 pages. ■ 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other special features. Printed on Bible Paper.
See It at Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
L G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mass.	A
i
copying
At all dealers
Buy a dozen
Superlative in quality, the world-famous
VENUS
Vpengls
give best service and longest wear.
10c each.
American Pencil Co., Hoboken, N. J.
MakersofUNIQVEThin
Colored Pencils in 12 colors—$1.00 per doz.

J
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
93
First cousin to a fish

what kind doyou write?
You don’t mind rain any more than sunshine when you’re wearing a Fish Brand Slicker. Absolutely weather-proof, yet roomy and comfortable. Good-looking too. Fish Brand Slickers have been built for 92 years to take the pounding of surf and spray. And how they wear!
The “Varsity” model has all that •—plus the trim lines of the campus. The full-length sweep protects you to the very crease of your trouser cuffs. Books won’t rip the spacious “Staydfast” pockets. You can have buckle or button front, strap collar or plain, and your choice of colors. Olive-khaki, yellow or black.
Step into the nearest store and buy wet-weather comfort today. Just ask for Tower’s Fish Brand, the “Rainy Day Pal.” A. J. Tower Company, Boston, Mass.
JLF the profs find it hard to read your hieroglyphics, they really can’t be blamed if they give you lower marks than you may think you deserve.
Take no chances. Get a Remington Portable and let it do your writing for you. It will speed up your writing and the full legibility and neatness of type
written work cannot fail to help your grades.
Remington Portable—the recognized leader in sales and popularity—is the smallest, lightest, most compact and most dependable portable with standard keyboard. Carrying case only 4 inches high. Weighs 8/^ pounds, net.	.

Let us explain to you our easy payment terms.
Remington Portable
f—	_J= ------ - >
IT PAYS TO LOOK WELL
SOUTH SHORE
BARBER SHOP
Botkin & Campbell, Props.
SIX CHAIRS
SERVICE
105 West LaSalle Street
Kext door to East Victoria Lunch.
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
Notre Dame University
Remington-Rand Business Service, Ine. 221 West Washington St., South Bend, Indiana
Off-Campus Students
Patronize the
UNIVERSITY CAFE
Sodas Candy Cigars Newspapers
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
American Trust Company
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
----o----
Michigan at Washington
9*
c	-----W
It's easy to send Laundry Home in a
Kwikpak Case $2.25
Kwikpak laundry cases come in suitcase size—so they’ll hold two weeks’ laundry. They’re light weight, but strong,—corrugated boxes with canvas covers—so they don’t take much postage. They are all ready to mail, with a new style safety flap holding the label. All the fellows use them. And they are only $2.25 at—
WYMAN’S
Third Floor. —  - - ■ -	—<
KNUTE ROCKNE
TAD JONES Advisory Coach at Yale
GLENN WARNER Coach at Stanford University
—And—
FRANKLYN E. DOAN
Sports Editor of the New^-Times
Write Exclusively for the
SOUTH BEND NEWS-TIMES
—J-
Forever introducing the New—

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
95
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
THE OLIVER
BARBER SHOP
COMPLETE COURTEOUS SERVICE
Manicuring
205 W. Washington Ave. THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
1 ~ <
“Nationally Advertised
Merchandise at Cut Prices9 9
TOWER SLICKERS
Regular $7.50 value
$5.45
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON
ARMY FIELD SHOES
$4.50 value
$3.45
DR. MEANWELL’S
GYM SHOES
Regular $2 value
$1.45
CROMPTON’S
CORDUROYS
Regular $4 value
$2.95
Pant, Breeches or Knickers
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY ARMY STORE
330 South Michigan Street
Louisiana Texas New Mexico Arizona California Oregon Nevada Utah
Go One Way—Return Another
TODAY’S westbound traveler makes the most of his trip by going one way, returning another and seeing all the scenic wonders of the Pacific Coast while there. Southern Pacific offers you four great routes with a vast network of connecting lines reaching . out to all the scenic attractions of the Great Southwest and Pacific Coast. For complete information and illustrated ____literature, write, dep’t. X._
Southern Pacific
E- IV. CLAPP, Traffic Manager, 310 South Michigan Blvd.. Chicago, Hl.
96
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dares Fate for Favorite Pipe Tobacco
Darby, Pa., November 12,1926. Larus & Bro. Co.
Richmond, Va.
Gentlemen:
I have a mania for crawling through a number of unexplored caverns between the towns of Woodstock and Mt. Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley. One cave was exceedingly dangerous with its tight passages, etc. I spent three hours in this cavity, groping blindly with a “dead” flashlight and a severed guiding string.
To cut my story short, I was finally rescued by a searching party after a terrible experience. It was a -wonderful feeling as I sat at the mouth of the cavern telling my friends that I would not go back in there for love nor money. I meant it—until I reached for my can of Edgeworth. It was gone, and I recalled dropping something during the excitement in the cave.
_ It is queer what a man will do when his favorite tobacco is concerned. I realized that without my tobacco it would be as bad as being lost in the cavity—so I crawled back.
It was a grand and glorious feeling as my hand came in contact with the Aristocrat of Tobacco. •
Yours very truly,
Joseph P. Fink, Jr.
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
OFFICE 2-1067 RESIDENCE 3-4041
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
CLOTHES
ESTABLHplEP ENGLISHUNiVERSITY STYLES, TAILOREOiOVER^ CHARTS SOLELY £ORUlSli*iGUISHED SERVICE	STATES.
fl
(ThnvterK? onset
Suits MO*	vercoats	4
-_	e 3 s ■ \	=
— BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT ~ OUR STORE IS THE Charter Wouse of South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana	*
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
Electricity
opens a new era of ocean travel
Miraculously quiet and vibrationless, luxurious and swift, the new electrically operated S. S. California, largest American-built passenger ship, has opened a new era in ocean travel.
Electricity drives the California so efficiently that the fuel bill for the initial coast-to-coast trip was even less than the Canal tolls.
Electricity mans the winches, bakes the bread, makes the ice, polishes the silver. And electricity cools the cabins and provides passengers with the
This monogram is found on great motors that drive the California, and on a multitude of electric appliances which contribute to the comfort of her passengers. It is an emblem of skilled engineering and high manufacturing quality.
comforts found in the finest hotels.
Complete electrification makes the California an engineering marvel and a commercial success; it is booked far in advance, a sister ship has just been launched, and another is under construction.
On sea or land, in every walk of life, electricity is in the van of progress. Undreamed of yesterday, the electric ship is a symbol of the electrical industry’s part in modem civilization and a prophecy of even greater accomplishment.
6-27DH
GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC
SCHENECTADY, NEW

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'^here’s at Least One on Every Hunting Party : By briggs
C P. Lorillard Co.. Est. 1760
not a cough in a carload