

wejmre them AU!
Philip aaorris ■. ■■ leading brand to'su W9eS any other na *° s°99est this test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING. DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a PHILIP MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . , Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIOARETIE HANGOVER h~"“ Mo«	pua"m



. i FOR
^*^**i!0?n**s
™lIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
Raffle Book Winners
The Mardi Gras committee has announced the winners of the awards to the leading raffle book salesmen. No prize was awarded in Walsh Hall since no one in that hall sold more than two books. The campus winner was E. J. Murphy of Dillon who took the $100— first prize with 40 books sold.
The winners:
Prize	Name	No. Books Sold
Off Campus 1st —$30......... E. Sangus ........... 14
2nd— 25.......... J.	Celusta ......... 11
3rd— 20.........  F.	J. Schrow ........ 8
4th— 15.......... C.	DeKeizer.......... 6
5th— 5...........J. Dow ................ 5
5th— 5........... D.	C. Flanagan ..... 5
6th— 5........... J.	Janowski ......... 4
6th— 5........... M. L. Burke .......... 4
6th— 5......._...	V. T. Blaz .......... 4
St. Edward’s Hall 1st—$30.......... E.	J. Trusela........ 10
2nd— 5........... D. A. Deweese ........ 7
Breen-Phillips Hall 1st—$30......... Pat	Leone ........... 12
2nd— 10.......... Richard Cobb ......... 8
Cavanaugh Hall 1st—$30.......... J.	W. Reeves ........ 17
2nd— 10.......... D.	Carbone ........ 16
Zahm Hall 1st—$30.......... J.	Mertens --------   25
Dillon Hall	~
1st—$30.......... E.	J. Murphy ........ 40
2nd— 20.......... P.	McAteer ......... 6
3rd— 10.......... T.	Snyder ........... 3
Morrissev Hall 1st—$30/......... P. Coffey .........   22
2nd—7.50......... H. J. Mossman ........ 7
3rd—7.50......... W.	Devaney ........... 7
Alumni Hall 1st—$30........... R.	Peckels ......... 12
2nd.... 20....... A.	Adams ............ 8
3rd— 10.......... J.	Dohogne .......... 8
Howard Hall 1st—$30.......... L. Hummerick ......... 3
Lyons Hall 1st—$30.......... M.	Markert .......... 3
Sorin Hall 1st—$30.......... R. Schaffer .......... 3
Farley Hall 1st—$30.......... T. Casey.............. 4
2nd— 10.........  D.	Beckel ........... 3
Badin Hall 1st—$30.......... L.	Carocino .......... 5
Enrollment Totals 4822 For ND Spring Semester
A total of 4,822 undergraduate and graduate students have enrolled for the spring semester at the University according to an announcement by the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in Charge of Academic Affairs.
Father Norton said that of the total enrollment, 4,385 students are enrolled in the five undergraduate colleges. The remaining 437 are enrolled in the Graduate School.
The Notre Dame enrollment figure announced by Father Norton reveals that in spite of the war j'itters being suffered by college students all over the nation, the school’s enrollment is normal as compared to last spring’s enrollment in the fall semester of 5,052. Father Norton pointed out that annually there is a normal decrease in enrollment between the fall and spring semesters.
Which "Joe” has the
"GABANARO”?
Both, of course I The new Arrow “Gabanaro” sports shirt can be worn two ways. Because of the new Arafold collar, it can be worn with or without tie ... looks perfect either way. In your exact collar size and sleeve length (sized to fit all shapes and sizes!) Washable rayon gabardine.
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
3 UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERTS
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Feb. 16, 1951
3
NFCCS Organizes New Science Chapter
Activity among the divisions of the NFCCS on campus is on the upswing and a new chapter is about to be formed.
The Student Engineering Advisory Board, which represents the engineering groups on campus, will meet with the leaders of the various Notre Dame science clubs Tuesday to form a science chapter, which will be affiliated with the Fort Wayne Region Science Committee. The organizational meeting will be held at 7:15 p.m. in the Law Building.
In addition to its part in the forthcoming magazine drive, the apostolic chapter is conducting Lenten Adoration and is working on plans for Hall Rosary and May Day. The presidents of the clubs in the chapter will meet at the YCS office in the Law Building tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 to revise the chapter constitution, which had previously been temporarily approved.
The International Affairs Chapter met Wednesday to complete its organization and elect officers for the semester. The Inter-American Action group, just awarded the regional IAAC chairmanship, is currently making plans for the Tri-Regional Conference to be held here April 14-15.
At a meeting next week, the Sociology Club will act on the request of the NFCCS Council to represent Notre Dame on the Family Life and Interracial Justice Commissions.
The press chapter is currently concerned with the promotion of the magazine drive.
Jack Hynes, vice-president of the Junior Class, has been representing the Student Council on the Student Government Commission.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOR Paul was having a fowl time because his down was up. All the chicks made wise quacks about his upswept hairdo until his shellmate suggested he duck over to the drugstore. “Waddle I do?” he asked. “Get Wildroot Cream-Oil!” the
druggist answered.“Non-alcoholic. Made with soothing lanolin. Grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Removes ugly ducklings — I mean ugly dandruff! Helps pass the fingernail test!” Now he’s engaged—he’s lovely —he uses ponds—to swim in! (Isn’t he decoy one ?) So water you waiting for? Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil Hair Tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter today. Ask your barber for professional applications. And tell all your webfooted friends it’s eggzactly what the ducktor ordered!
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.

Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
WILDROOT
Mooafnaiun
Glaciologist Will Address Geology Club Wednesday
The Notre Dame Geology Club will sponsor a talk by Dr. Leland Hor-berg, Professor of Geology at the University of Chicago, next Wednesday evening at 7:30 in the Geology lecture room in the Main Building.
Dr. Horberg, who will speak on “Peri-glacial features and their significance in land form interpretation,” has done extensive work on the geomorphology and glaciology of the Great Lakes area and is considered an authority on the subject. He is the author of numerous articles and publications on geology, one of his most recent being “Bedrock Topography of Illinois” published by the Illinois State Geological Survey.
Saecial to-
NOTRE DAME MEN
$6.00 worth of Italian or American food for $5.00
Purchase your card from Rose, Ann or Jimmy. University identification required.
PAPANDREA’S Spaghetti House
415 N. Michigan	Phone 3-0903
4
The Scholastic


Top of the Week
Cagers “pull one out of the hat” against St. Louis . . .
On the Boards
We’ve certainly had a heaping tablespoon full of dramatics recently with Macbeth, Arms ancl the Man, and Harvey. The stage of Washington Hall hasn’t taken such a beating since the days of Monogram Club Variety Shows when 200-pound tackles were bumping and grinding like chorus girls.
The University Theatre presentation of Harvey was a pretty good imitation of the movie, but the principal character, Harvey, was flubbing up too many lines for our comfort. Another thing Harvey slipped on was makeup or perhaps it wasn’t his fault his orange tie didn’t blend with his pink eyes. The casting was superb and a finer Harvey we haven’t had the pleasure of viewing.
In case you haven’t been reading the bulletin boards, you should know that the Student Council musical will begin casting next week. This should give everybody a chance to practice their dance routines and clear- their throats for the tryouts. If they’ve got a part in the show for someone who does nothing but sit around quietly and make snide remarks at the other characters, we proffer our services.
If there’s something in the show for a six-foot two and a half inch white rabbit let Harvey know about it via this column. Some people try to get into everything, don’t they?
Council Capers
Besides sponsoring the student musical this year, the Student Council is trying to represent the student body in its relations with the Administration. This week the Council worked up enough steam to throw the Chicago Club out on its collective ear — a move better late than never, from what we hear. There wasn’t anything wrong with the Chicago club that a couple of Student Council members couldn’t fix. When they started holding their own classes in the Emerald Room of the Blarney Inn and importing lecturers from South State Street dives, the camel’s back broke.
Odds and Ends
Still no ice in the skating rink east of the Infirmary. . . . We won five bucks by selling four raffle books for the Mardi Gras. ... The Draft laws are being juggled around more every day and you can’t tell whether you are going or going. . . . Bengal Bouters spar nightly in the Fieldhouse while WND announcers duck jabs and haymakers. . . . Just what is supposed to
Avoid embarrassment . . . gain confidence
PRIVATE STUDIOS
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
happen for Seniors on Feb. 22 is not very clear, but it should be worth $5.25. . . . The Marriage Institute Sessions are drawing bigger crowds than home football games . . . maybe the attendees like the “lowdown” better than the “touchdown.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . maybe there won’t be a new basketball coach next year.
LOST AND FOUND
A campus Lost and Found department is maintained in the office of the Prefect of Discipline. Students are advised to check there for lost articles. The office is located on the main floor of the Main Building.
Dial 7-1517
Feb. 16, 1*51
5
That's Our Team
Yes sir. and what a team it is!
Seldom do you ever see a game like the one they played Tuesday night against St. Louis. Little David took mighty Goliath for a riproaring ride that won’t be forgotten for many a day. It was hard to believe it was a Notre Dame team out there on the floor. It’s been a long time since one of our teams played like those men did. And they played as a team. There was no room for stars. They all must have eaten fire for supper because they were steaming hot.
It’s only right that every man who played should get a personal blow. So here goes—to Dan Bagley. Bob Eaton, Neal Fichtel. Jim Gibbons, Leroy Leslie, Norb Lewinski, Jack Neumayr, Marty O’Con- [ nor, and Bob Wray our hat is off. You -were the best we’ve seen in	:
many a day. You were a team which made us proud to call our own.	I
i I
Those omnipresent doubting Thomases said you couldn’t do it. We knew you could—and you did. You beat a team that came here with an 18-4 record. You beat a team that had trounced such national greats as L.I.U., Bradley and Kentucky. You were an inspired squad and toppled one of the best from its pinnacle.

Vol. 92 February 16, 1951 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
To your coach, also, goes a big cheer. Coach Krause deserves a moose’s share of the credit. The same goes for his assistant, John Brennan.
And the entire student body can’t be forgotten, either. Some people said it was impossible to generate spirit for a basketball game to equal that aroused for a football battle. The band, cheerleaders, and every7 student who crammed into the Field House threw that worn theory7 into the ashcan, torn and shattered for good. The spirit of the crowd Tuesday night had an effect on the team—and the team was determined not to let us down. They didn’t.
From now on when any wiseacre asks what’s, wrong with our team we can say with conviction, “Nothing!” We’ve got a basketball team any student body would be proud of.
Yes sir, that’s our teani—and it’s downright great!
JOHN J. POWERS '52 News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53 ... Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52_______________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_______Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, '52___Photography LEON GARDNER, '52________.Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51_____Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '51___________Circulation JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico. Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey. Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn. Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki rnd Ron Zier. SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou. Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub. nEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw. Dan Brennan. John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Larry McDermott, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta and Jack Ward. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul T'itzgerald_. John Kinville, Charles Lenz. Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., •120 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame,' Indiana. -
COVER: Maybe you didn’t get any Valentines last Wednesday but as you can plainly see Tom Wolfe celebrated the day quite nicely. You may be wondering what he is going to do to the young lady. He is going to examine her teeth.—Photo by Al Muth.
6
The Scholastic
Taking Inventory
Lent is a week and a half old now and what have you done?
It’s a stood thing to stive up movies, smokes, sweets and so forth, but it’s a better thing to do something positive— something that will make you a better man, a better Notre Dame man.
Each Lent the University holds week-end retreats for the members of the ND family. They begin on Saturday night and end on Sunday afternoon, a relatively small period of time with a relatively large spiritual significance.
Everybody at Notre Dame is here for three reasons: to develop morally, mentally, and physically. A Lenten retreat can be a big help for you in many ways and giving up a Saturday night spree to attend a retreat isn’t too much to ask.
You might not have the chance to take inventory on your spiritual self for some time to come, if ever.
•
The Successful Substitute
Several years ago the Department of Religion offered a course for Seniors entitled Marriage. It was one of the most popular courses on the schedule—not because it was a “coaster course” but, rather, for its practical values. There were even a great many Seniors who were disappointed because they couldn’t fit it into their programs.
Then it was dropped.
The Department of Religion, however, didn’t scrap the course completely. In its place they substituted an annual Marriage Institute, a program of eight sessions which started its fourth year last week. The idea of the Institute seems even better than the original course. Because now not just 30 or 40 Seniors are able to take advantage of the program— it is presented at night and every interested last-year man can attend.
There are apparently a great many who are interested in the Institute. The Law Auditorium was packed solidly for the opening session. And no student attending could have had misgivings for being there. The initial two talks of the ’51 program made a deep impresion on everyone.
Both Father Hesburgh and Coach Krause gave stimulating lectures that were far from being pedantic. Some wonderful humor brightened what they had to say. Much to the Seniors’ satisfaction, this looked as if it wasn’t going to be like most extra-curricula courses.
And the subject matter presented was something that hit home. The majority of the men pray and hope someday they will be the heads of Catholic families. Here, then, was some help and advice which they needed.
Without a doubt, the Marriage Institute is one of the finest programs offered on the campus. It is something which is appreciated by twery man who attends because it
assists him in finding a life that is more Christ-like and one that will lead to his salvation.
A Happy Flood
There is nothing to do.	=
That’s a common complaint heard hereabouts. It has been a muffled gripe, however, during the past few weeks because the activities program has enjoyed a flood of good entertainment.
Last week the troupe of Catholic University graduates presented two classics in Washington Hall. Both plays drew large crowds and the split-opinions concerning the productions augurs well for Notre Dame students. It proves the localites have definite ideas on what makes good or bad dramatics. Further, it disproves an old theory that we are nothing but a bunch of rabid “moompitcher” fans—with the emphasis on.the cowboy-and-indian type picture show*.
Our own University Theatre followed on the heels of the travelling players with its second offering of the year, Harvey. Again the students’ opinion was split somewhat, but in one regard they were united.. The local thespians have at last
achieved a position of respect. The group has grown considerably during the past few years and, incidentally, con
comittant with this growth has been a definite improvement
in audience participation. It seems that campus tastes, as
well as campus audiences, are maturing fast and this is
definitely a good sign.
Now, on next Wednesday night, the Concert and Lecture series has booked the DePaur Chorus into the Drill Hall
for a concert. These singers have been praised. highly all over the country and it is to the C. and L.’s credit that it was able to bring them here.
No, it would be hard for anyone to say these days—there is nothing to do. The only legitimate complaint now is there aren’t more nights in the week, o
"Campus Digest"
Radio Station WND’s (new frequency, 1230) experimental program “Campus Digest” looks like a sure winner.
The program is produced by Jerry Burlage, written and edited by Micky Carroll, and narrated by . Ray Earls. It presents tape-recordings of the news highlights of the week as they happen.
. Last Saturday night, for example, the program featured tape recordings of the Science Building fire, Stan Kenton, the Mardi-Gras raffle winners, and the Catholic U. Players, to name a few. Such on-the-spot, first-hand coverage is a difficult but a worth-while task.
Our success wish to “Campus Digest” and our congratulations to WND. May the program develop into the most popular in your repertoire..
Feb. 16, 1951
7
j
NOTRE DAME MEN say:	j
?
Read Faster ... Save Time ... Learn More! !
‘‘The Foundation For Better Reading in South Bend is admirably equipped to assist people in doubling and even tripling their speed of reading . . . enabling them to read a great deal more literature than they now find possible . . . and thus increasing their efficiency, culture, and pleasure,” says Rev. John A. O’Brien, noted author, educator, and expert in the field of improved reading habits.
REVEREND JOHN A. O BRIEN
Author of Reading; Its Psychology
and Pedagogy.
“I not only doubled my reading speed, but I developed such smooth eye movements that I can now read twice as long without eyestrain,” writes Edward A. Fisher, professor of Journalism, now a Press Officer with the U. S. Army. “In other words, during the next year I will probably read as much as I totaled during the past four years. That’s saying a lot for only 20 hours of instruction.”
EDWARD A. FISHER
“Before I took the course I was reading at a normal college rate of about 325350 words per minute. When I was told that this training would enable me to double or triple this rate, I didn’t believe it,” says Ernest J. Bartell, Sophomore in Commerce. “I was amazed to find how easily I was able to raise my normal reading rate to almost 1200 words per minute without losing comprehension. Because I can now do my reading in far less time, I find that I have a lot more time left over for other activities.”
ERNEST J. BARTELL
“When I finished this course and tested my total improvement in reading, I realized that I had been wasting an average of from 5 to 10 hours a week in needlessly slow reading,” says Michael A. Geraghty, Junior majoring in Math. “It’s my firm belief that this course will be of tremendous benefit, not only to Science' students like myself, but more particularly to A.B. students and to anyone who reads very much for pleasure or study.”
MICHAEL A. GERAGHTY
Find out today how you — even if you’re a “fast” reader now — may easily and quickly more than double your reading capacity.
A special tuition discount is available to Notre Dame faculty members and students who register for the course immediately.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Avenue	<next to Aquinas Bookstore)	Phone 3-0077
8	The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 16
FEBRUARY 16, 1951
Council Orders Suspension of Chicago Club; Financial Report Shows $1424.25 Balance
By TOM GODFREY, ’54
The Student Council at its meeting Monday night ordered the indefinite suspension of the Chicago Club. This suspension includes all activities both on campus and in the Chicago area.
The suspension was imposed “for flagrant violation in regard to Student Council procedure in the method of securing permission for a dance.” ’ The move was occasioned by the failure of the Chicago Club to have their alumni send their sponsoring letter to the Student Council for both the Thanksgiving and Christmas dances.
STUDENT COUNCIL
MID-YEAR FINANCIAL REPORT
Balance, Oct. 2, 1950...........$ 539.54
Total Income .................. 2355.65
Total ........................$2895.19
Disbiirsements
To Outside Agencies .......$ 522.08
To Campus Organizations.. 900.01
To Individuals ............. 48.85
Total ....................$1470.94
$2895.19
1470.94
Balance ......$1424.25
The suspension will remain in effect until such time as the Student Council deems it advisable to call a meeting of the students from the Chicago area to elect new officers. The club’s books, records, bank books, and any other papers must be turned over* to the Student Council to be held in trust until that time.
At the same meeting vice-president Daniel Brennan submitted a letter of resignation from the Student Council. Brennan, the Council’s off-campus representative, said that with his many extra-curricular activities, he could not give enough time to his studies.
The Council’s Treasury received $1450.83 from the profits of the Victory dances and the Sophomore Cotillion. With these contributions the Council published its mid-year financial report showing a balance of $1424.25.
It also recommended the showing of a second movie on Saturday afternoon in Washington Hall to take care of the overflow crowds at the present showings. This new movie will be tried out for a two-week trial period beginning a week from tomorrow.
The Council also approved an all-out drive to be sponsored by the NFCCS for subscriptions to Catholic magazines later this month.
RESULT OF CHICAGO CLUB INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE MEETING
I move the suspension of the Chicago Club until such time as the Student Council deems it advisable to call a meeting of the students from the Chicago area for the purpose of electing new officers. This suspension to have such effect as to stop any further club activities, that is, meetings, participation in intramural sports, i.e. basketball, softball, bowling, etc., and any other activities both on and off campus. The names, Notre Dame and Chicago Club will not be used by any individual or group of individuals for the promotion of any function either* on campus or in the Chicago area. Any violation of the above by either the former officers or any others, acting as individuals or as a group, shall be cause for the Student Council to recommend them for disciplinary censure to the proper University authorities.
Furthermore, that the Club’s books, records, bank books, and any other papers pertaining to this club, be turned over to the Student Council to be held in trust until such time as the Coun-
Student Musical Set For April Production
Mr. and Mrs. Broadway are coming to Notre Dame! Not Lunt and Fontaine, not Harrison and Palmer, but the musical comedy conceived and written by Seniors Dick Marshall and Bill Carey.
The original student production, which was three years in the making, will be presented April 16, 17, and 18 at Washington Hall. It is sponsored by the Student Council, with the assistance of the University Theater. Henry Madden has been appointed as manager, while Allan Powers assumes the duties of producer-director. The entire production will be in charge of students.
Tryouts for Mr. and Mrs. Broadway, both for acting, singing, and dancing roles, and for crew work of all kinds, wall be held in room 327 of the Main Building, Feb. 19, 20, and 21. All parts will be played by students and local girls. In addition to these roles, there will be a “male chorus.” Previous experience is not necessary, as a professional dancing teacher, has been placed in charge of choreography.
Mr. and Mrs. Broadway concerns an estranged theater couple, a famous wife, a musical comedy star. The story of their reconciliation, both romantic and professional, makes up the plot. The show concludes with a highly novel ending, and affords ample opportunity for the original songs and dances in it.
Musical accompaniment will be provided by the orchestra of Gene Hull. Stage settings will be designed, and executed by a student committee headed by John Armstrong. A make-up committee also is to be formed.
cil deems it wise to turn them back to the newly elected officers. Still further, if this is not complied with within one week from tonight (February 12, 1951), the former officers of the Chicago Club will be recommended for disciplinary censure.
Approved by Student Council, WILLIAM ANHUT, President'
Feb. 16, 1951
9
Economics Head Cites Internal Weakness As Greater Danger Than World Communism
“Free associations, designed for common interests, could become the hope of America in our fight against Communism,” Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, declared in an address Feb. 13 in Baltimore.
Professor Sheehan spoke before the -59th annual Convention of the National League of Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Distributors meeting in Baltimore. The Notre Dame economist declared in his address that “we have lost sight of our common interests in our mad preoccupation with special interests.”
“One inescapable circumstance confronting us is the extreme external pressure being exerted upon us by Communism,” Professor Sheehan declared. “This circumstance of Communist danger is important. Because it is a dangerous and strange thing, it has frightened many into believing it is our only danger.
“In my opinion, the external circumstances of Communism can neither crumble nor crush us — unless some existing internal circumstances seriously weaken us. We do seem to have some internal circumstances that are potentially weakening. And the Communist menace is aggravating and intensifying these weaknesses.”
Professor Sheehan listed as the “internally weakening circumstances” as the increasingly dangerous situation of economic stability; too much disharmony, distrust and shortsighted “jockeying” in a society which can function smoothly only on a closely cooperative basis; and as rugged individualism gradually has broken down, it has been displaced by growing “power groups,” both private and government. •
“Giant government has not been imposed upon us, in my opinion,” according to Mr. Sheehan. “As citizens and electors we’ve asked for it. Who, but the special interest beneficiaries, are largely responsible for our many subsidy laws? Leaving aside wartime controls, who is responsible for* our peacetime price maintenance and price discrimination laws? We may ask ourselves, why did voluntary price and wage restraints fail in World War I, World War II, and also in Cold War III?
“Essentially, are we not compelled to reason to the conclusion that we have lost sight of our common interests in
10
our mad preoccupation with special interests? Personally, I think so. And I believe that realization of this and admission of this can lead us out of our instability, our disharmony, and away from the trend towards over-big government and over-big private power.”
Professor Sheehan pointed out that today “there exist many labor unions, many employer associations, many farm organizations and professional societies” but “these associations do not go far enough,” tending to operate as rather narrow “class” groups, or special interest groups.
“What seems to be needed are free associations which would group together all persons performing the same function — say, in shoe manufacturing,” Professor* Sheehan declared. “In this case, by all persons is meant the owners and managers, all technicians and workers engaged in shoe manufacturing. This would provide a grouping of persons along lines of the thing wh;ch unites them, their shoe-making function, their common interest. This would seem to be an improvement over association of persons only along lines which separate them — into a management class, or worker class.”
Announce Entry Dates For Oratory Contests
Professor Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, this week announced three annual contests—the Breen Oratorical Contest, the Freshman Oratorical Contest, and the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Prize.
The preliminaries of the Breen contest will be held March 7 at 4:15 p.m. in room 327 of the Main Building. Entrants must register with Professor J. A. Fallon in the office of the Department of Speech, 328 Main Building, by March 1.
The oration will consist of approximately 1000 words—seven to nine minutes in length. The subject matter is to be selected by the individual contestants. The final contest is scheduled for the evening of March 14 in the Law Auditorium.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The competition for this award is conducted by the Department of Speech. No student may win the Breen Medal more than once.
The finals of the Freshman contest
Fr. Nealy and Mr. Sheehan Speak at Marriage Institute
At the third session of the Marriage Institute next Tuesday, Mr. John Sheehan will discuss “Economic Planning Both Before and During Marriage,” and the Rev. Francis D. Nealy will talk upon “Marriage Legislation and Ritual of the Church.”
Professor Sheehan is head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame. He received his A.B. and M.A. degrees
Father Nealy
from Notre Dame. Currently the national president of the Catholic Economic Association, he has been a contributor to America, Review of Social Economy, and other similar magazines.
Fr. Nealy received his A.B. degree at St. Mary College, Halifax, Nova Scotia, and an M.A. in philosophy from St. Thomas Aquinas, River Forest, Ill. At Notre Dame he obtained an M.A. in education and has completed his course work for his doctorate. During the war he served in the Army cavalry and infantry as a chaplain.
will take place April 11 in the Law Auditorium. Entrants must register with Professor Frederick Govern, room 240 Main Building. The preliminaries of this contest are scheduled for April 9 at 4:15 p.m. in room 327 Main Building. Entrants must register by April 1-
The finals of the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Prize will be held May 9 at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. Entrants must register with Professor* Leonard Sommer, at 328 Main Building, by May 1. The preliminary eliminations will be May 7.
The Scholastic

Eight Prominent Symposium Speakers Stress Importance of a Nation's Faith
The role of the Catholic Church in international affairs was the subject of a two-day symposium sponsored by the Committee on International Relations at the University of Notre Dame. The symposium was held Wednesday and Thursday of last week.
Eight nationally-prominent speakers told the symposium audience that a spiritual buttress of faith and conscience must unite a nation’s people before the nation can become lastingly great. Chairman of the symposium was the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame. The Notre Dame Committee on International Relations is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
Dr. Yves Simon, formerly a member of the Notre Dame faculty and now a member of the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago, opened the symposium by asserting that only with the help of religion can man get and keep peace with himself and others.
“Man cannot bind the conscience of man, but God can,” Dr. Simon declared. The Chicago professor stressed that conscience is needed in democracies, as in totalitarianisms, to tell people how far they can go before a transmission of power to them is effected and' the democracy begins to fall' apart. Dr. Simon spoke on “The Catholic Church and Democracy.”
Dr. Heinrich Rommen, a member of the faculty at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., declared in a symposium address that “the trampling of basic human rights which we have experienced in our time has finally forced the crowning of a long development in the universal declaration of human rights by the United Nations.”
“Although many think that the idea of fundamental human rights is exclusively the product of 18th century revolutions and the philosophies which justified them, the idea has actually existed as long as Christianity,” Dr. Rommen observed. “We find these ideas expressed frequently during the Middle Ages, and in a number of early charters of liberty — of which the Magna Carta is only one. Mediaeval philosophy has devoted quite a few thoughts to the idea of basic human rights, which are developed by many theologians of the 16th century.” Dr. Rommen spoke on “The Catholic Church and Human Rights.”
The Very Rev. Monsignor Harry Koenig, Librarian at St. Mary’s of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Ill., in re
viewing “Popes and Peace in the Twentieth Century,” reminded the symposium that Pope Pius XII distinguishes between Communism and Soviet Russia in the current world crisis.
“His diplomatic mind understands that, even though the Soviet Union may be vanquished in a third world war, Communism will remain because Communism is an ideology and ideologies are not overcome by wars,” Monsignor Koenig declared. “In fact, the frightful ruins and economic chaos caused by a third world war may accelerate the growth of Communism. The appropriate way to dissipate Communism is not to hurl atomic bombs against it, but to allow the dynamic energies of Christian faith and love to motivate every action of our lives and to practice Christian social principles which counteract the evils on which Communism thrives.”
Monsignor Koenig stressed, however, that “the diplomat in Pope Pius XII also believes that while we oppose Communist ideology with Christian ideology, the democracies by theii' own military defenses must demonstrate to Soviet Russia that aggression will not pay.” The Mundelein Librarian said that “once the masters of the Kremlin are really convinced of this fact, the cold war can be solved by a negotiated peace . . . and a negotiated peace is not appeasement, and is recommended by all the popes.”
A paradox presented by American Catholicism probably is the greatest
Bob Peckels
reason for misunderstanding it, the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, said in his report on “The Catholic Church in the United States.”
To those who think of the Church as a national power in matters not ecclesiastical, Father McAvoy replied:
“The greatest cause for misunderstanding American Catholicism probably is the paradox that despite the remarkable national conformity in faith, it
(Continued on Page 23)
WND Reveals Plans For Station Opening
Next Monday radio station WND will, inaugurate another semester as the “Student Voice of Notre Dame.” This semester the local station will operate at a frequency of 1230 kilocycles, with plans calling for nearly 60 hours of broadcasting time each week.
Scheduled for WND’s initial day on the ail- is the play-by-play account of the Notre Dame-Michigan State basketball tussle. Preceding the broadcast of the game, Gene Hull and his orchestra will present, from the studios of the station, a half-hour of musical entertainment.
A newcomer to this year’s Schedule of Programs is “Campus Digest.” Produced by Jerry Burlage and written by Mickey Carroll, the “Digest” is a compilation of tape-recorded interviews with national celebrities, as well as an up-to-date account of local events. Veteran announcer Ray Earls will narrate the half-hour show', which will be heard, once a week.
Recording star Fran Warren will be heard Monday through Friday at 7:30 p.m. on a 15-minute transcribed program. Made possible by recent affiliations with the RCA Corporation, the “Fran Warren Show” is one of many of its type that will be aired by the campus radio station.
“Music for America,” featuring, among others, the voice of Johnny Desmond, will be broadcast every weekday evening from' 7:45 until 8 p.m. Allan Roth will play “for your listening pleasure” on “Music For You,” to be heard nightly from 9:30 until 10.
Complete news coverage has been scheduled by WND. World-wide news will be heard each evening at 5 p.m., with campus happenings being broadcast at 7; Jim Gannon and Jim Sheerin will present “Sports Final” at 10.
Mr. J. A. Fallon of the Department of Speech will again direct the Radio Workshop. Heard Wednesdays at 5:00, the Workshop is composed of student groups from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Feb. 16, 1951
11
A pause in their 3700-mile singing tour of the Southeast is enjoyed by several Glee Club members at Vero Beach, Florida.
Larry Metcalf bids farewell to Bill Sahm, Ted Twardzik, and Frank Myers as the Glee Clubbers prepare to head southward.
When the first semester rolls to an end and the Northern Indiana weather begins to freeze everything on campus, the Notre Dame Glee Club packs its white ties and tails and starts on its annual between-semester concert tour*.
This year the “Singing Irish” traveled over 3,700 miles on their tour of Florida and the Southwest.
The 36-man singing group with their director, Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke and their chaplain, Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., took off from ND’s Washington Hall on Jan. 25 on an Indiana Motor Bus with special Glee Club signs and two drivers, Mr. A. V. Brannan and Mr. Norman Rentz.
The first stop for the songsters was Evansville, Ind. After the concert there the club members were feted at
the “Rathskeller” of the Sterling Brewing Company.
After singing a formal concert in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the Glee Clubbers were guests of the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale at a formal dance and reception at the Bahia Mar Yacht Basin. In West Palm Beach, Fla., the local K. of, C. council held a party for the club after their concert in that city.
The Vero Beach, Fla., concert was probably the highlight of the trip according to reports from the singers themselves. The complete facilities of the famous Windswept Hotel were turned over to the ND guests. While there, the songsters enjoyed a swimming party, a smoker, and a formal dinner.
Greenville, Miss., was the last concert appearance for the Glee Club before they returned to campus on Feb. 7 at 5:30 a.m. In Greenville, after the concert, the priests of St- Joseph’s parish held an open house and reception for the ND men.
The entire trip was for the most part delightful with temperatures pleasant and sunny days more than half of the time. The audiences were well pleased with the Glee Club’s program and the offerings of the three soloists, James Etling, John Broderick, and Jack Powell.
When you can spend- sunny days in Florida between semesters you’re doing all right and the Notre Dame Glee Club continues to prove its worth on the concert stages of the nation.
ABOVE: Tour's chaplain Father Kehoe poses with 'Miami Beachman' Fanning. LEFT: Not all Notre Dame men spent the between-semesters vacation by reviling the Northern Indiana weather.
12
The Scholastic
ND NFCCS to Open Catholic Press Drive
To promote the reading of Catholic periodicals, the Notre Dame NFCCS will conduct a magazine subscription campaign on campus. The drive will be launched on Feb. 26 and will continue for at least two weeks.
Approximately 18 Catholic magazines will be offered, with emphasis laid on placing at least one Catholic publication in every Catholic home. The campus campaign is part of a nationwide drive by the Catholic Press Association, with the National Federation of Catholic College Students handling the subscription sales in the colleges and universities.
According to NFCCS Senior Delegate Jim Garvin, the campus magazine drive has the approval of the Student Council and will be managed by the NFCCS Press and Apostolic Chapters, the former in charge of promotion and the latter* group handling the selling.
General co-chairmen for the campaign are Hank McCormack and John Moran. The Apostolic Chapter has chosen Bill Osborne and • John Houck to manage the subscription sales, while the Advertising Club, through its President Bob Wallace and Vice-President Al Zenz, has charge of the publicity end of the campaign, with the cooperation of the student publications and WND, the other members of the Press Chapter.
Member organizations of the Apostolic Chapter—YCS, the Liturgy Club, K of C’s, and the Third Order — will solicit the halls for subscriptions, which will also be available in the Dining Hall lobby.
The magazine drive also has the endorsement and cooperation of the Prefects of Religion.
This is the first project to be undertaken by the newly-formed Press Chapter. Since its organization last semester, the Apostolic wing of the NFCCS has sponsored or promoted a number of activities.
Infantry Chorus to Sing In Drill Hall Wednesday
The critically-acclaimed De Paur Infantry Chorus will present a concert in the University Drill Hall next Wednesday evening.
Tickets for the performance can be purchased at Washington Hall from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and on Saturday from 11:30 a.m. till 2 p.m. Tickets are also available at Copp’s Music Store, 123 East Wayne, and at
Elbel Bros. Music Store, 212 W. Colfax, both in South Bend.
The richly varied programs prepared by Conductor de Paur include songs of the many lands visited by the Chorus on army tours, songs of World War II, songs of Latin America, Negro, seculai* and religious songs.
Quarter-Finals Begin In Moot Court Battle
Two weeks from this coming Monday junior and senior barristers-to-be will commence argument in the quarter-final round of the Law School’s annual moot court competition.
The 6 junior court strategists will be aiming at the ultimate targets of the Dean’s Award and a place on the three-man 1951-52 intercollegiate squad, both of which are to be earned by the champions of the final parley in early June of this year. The eight men, on four teams, surviving this elimination must wrangle in the April 23 semifinals, from which a pair of two-men teams will emerge.
While at present the seniors are vying for* no award excepting the customary certificates awarded to all moot court participants, the student executive board for the program is currently promoting a plan to give gavels to graduates who compete at least once in moot court activity as juniors and again as seniors. The board believes this should increase the incentive to continue in the program during the student’s last year.
Two senior divisions and one junior match are to take place on the night of Feb. 26 in the quarter-final debate, while the following evening will complete the round -with three junior battles.
All moot court jurists simulate actual courtroom procedure in an appellate court. The necessary clerks and keep-ers-of-the-briefs are present for each court along with three judges. These include: a faculty member, a practicing South Bend attorney, and the senior who compiled the fact situation for the case.	'
The standards on which each wrangler duo are judged are their written brief, the presentation of their argument, and their adeptness in answering the judges’ queries.
Since the cases are neither involved nor legally complex, the interested public is welcome at all sessions. Three courts will swing into action at 7:30 both nights in rooms 100, 102, and 103 of the Law Building.
First Lenten Retreat Is for Seniors, Grads
Graduate students and seniors will take part in the first of the four Lenten retreats, beginning tomorrow evening at 8 p.m. in the Alumni Hall chapel. The weekend devotions will be continued on Sunday. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., is retreat master.
Following Father Hesburgh’s opening conference, the rosary will be recited at the Grotto and confessions heard in the main church.
Sunday’s ceremonies will begin with 8 a.m. Mass and a conference in Alumni chapel. Another conference at 10 o’clock precedes a holy hour.
In the afternoon, Father Hesburgh will conduct the fourth and final conference at 1 p.m., after which the students will make the outdoor Way of the Cross along the lake. The retreat will then be closed by the granting of the Papal Blessing.
The same schedule will be in effect for the remaining retreats, for Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen, on the three following weekends.
In the event of inclement weather, the rosary and stations will be held indoors.
Bengal Ticket Sales Start Next Monday
The proverbial cry of the auctioneer, “going, Going, GONE,” will be the appropriate description of the rush to get Bengal Bout tickets when they go on sale at noon Monday, Feb. 19, in the Dining Hall and at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
' A real deal is in line for those who buy the student reserved seat ticket. For a paltry $1.75 a ‘saved seat’ will be waiting for the owner even, if he arrives after the matches have begun. And this is for every night of the Bengal Bouts, including the finals. The ducats entitle the holder to one of the best seats in the house. They’ll be right behind ring-side.
There will be only 990 of these special package tickets available. With 5000 students clamoring for them, it behooves the fan to get there first.
Later in the week, single general admission seats for students will go on the block. Tickets for the prelims — Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, March 5, 6 and 7 — will cost 25 cents; for the semi-finals and finals — Thursday, March 8 and Saturday, March 10, respectively—the tariff is 50 cents. These seats are not reserved, and consequently require an early appearance on fight night.
Feb. 16, 1951
13
Across the Footlights
Actors Double as Stagehands, Set Designers And Mechanics With Romance the Extra
One of the busiest little theater troupes on the road is Players Incorporated whose artistic ability Notre Dame enjoyed on the nights of Feb. 6 and 7 in Washington Hall. The 15 members of this group, all graduates of Catholic University, Washington,
Carol Anthony
By ED VASTA, ’52
C.U., and preventing their disappearance into the hoards of unknown extras and bit players crowding the offices of New York’s theatrical agencies. It is this spirit of accomplishment, of doing what they were taught to do, that has put this company up in the professional ranks in just two years.
Chicago First Stop
They set out in the world, a frightened but confident little party, in 1949. Chicago gave them their first taste of footlights and applause and thereafter their twin trucks and several cars were seen trundling through the midwest for five months. Their repertory consisted of just one show, Much Ado About Nothing, but now Macbeth and Arms and the Man have been added. To keep their repertory growing is the ambition of everyone, especially Bob Dietz who played Banquo in Macbeth and Major Petkoff in Arms and the Man. He points out that although the program now is made up largely of classics,
original modern plays will be gradually worked in. ‘‘But,’’ says Bob, “one thing we’ll never do is warmed-over Broadway.”
The Russian director who told his actors “you must suffer,” must have had an eye on Players Incorporated for, although happily engrossed in their work, this theatrical family has had its share of hard knocks. Just a few months ago, at Christmas, the company found itself without engagements and on the brink of folding up. Desperately they secured loans to keep the actors alive and engagements at army camps to keep them busy. “Somehow,” said Teddy Kinsey, vice-president of the organization, “things came through.’’ Now they have booking until late in May at which time the company will retire for the summer.
Nor will any of the troupe forget that terrifying experience in Chicago a few weeks ago when for the first time in theatrical history, the players were preparing to admit that the show cannot always go on. The trouble started in Dayton, Ohio, one blizzardy evening-after a performance of Much Ado About Nothing. The team had to push (Continued on Page 31)
D. C., are of necessity actors, stage hands, roustabouts and truck drivers all rolled into one.
Acting to them is like dessert after a meal or rest after a hard day’s work. Not only do they portray as many as three or four characters in the same play, but they have to design their own costumes, paint and set up their own scenery, construct their own props and fix their own flat tires. In short, they do everything but arrange for the auditorium and sell the tickets. But how they love it! Give them a jar of cold cream and a juicy bit of dialogue and they’ll ask for nothing more.
This organization is the ideal and dream of Father Hartke, head of the Department of Drama and Speech at C.U. His motives are numerous and noble, the primary one being to bring the works of masters like Shakespeare and Shaw to the citizens west of Times Square. It has, of course, other functions, especially that of giving employment to graduate drama students of
The C.U. grad players double
as behind-the-scenes technicians as well as actors.
14
The Scholastic
And Into The Wings
HARVEY
By KEN THOREN, ’51
MYRTLE MAE SIMMONS ..............Judy	Maikus
VETA LOUISE SIMMONS ...........Patricia Smanda ELWOOD P. DOWD ................ Richatd	Simons
MRS. ETHEL CHAUVE.NET ....Hildegarde Vargyas RUTH KELLY. R. N............... Alice	Weiss
DUANE WILSON ................. Philip	Nash
LYMAN SANDERSON. M.D...........Thomas Dolan WILLIAM R. CHUMLEY. M.D. ... Charles Dohertv BETTY CHUMLEY .................Jane	Simon
JUDGE OMAR GAFFNEY ............Gerald Mernin E. J. LOFGREN .................Frank Jackman
Diiected by ............... Leonaid Sommer
That loveable rabbit Harvey paid a four-day visit at Washington Hall this week and judging from the audience reaction, he could easily have taken up permanent abode there.
Harvey watches play's stars "make up."
The University Theatre’s second production of the year couldn’t help but suffer from comparison with both the original Broadway and touring presentations and the recent picturization. One might say it had two strikes on it from the start. It is to the credit of the campus thespians, therefore, that they pulled the rabbit out of the hat with so much success.
Mary Chase’s warm comedy as presented this week was not an imitation. The cast attacked the play with a fresh approach and provided the standing room audiences with many new laughs. This wasn’t an easy job because many of the lines, situations and characters were anticipated before they were presented.
The cast, for the most part, was uniformly good. Alice Weiss and Thomas Dolan handled the romantic roles with
conviction. Both of these characters lack depth but the players were able to make them believable. Hildegarde Vargyas was a perfect choice for the part of Ethel Chauvenet. And Judy Markus was consistent in the part of Myrtle Mae Simmons.
It was Dick Simons, however, in the leading role of Elwood P. Dowd who did most for the play. He is an assured actor with perfect timing for comedy. He has a pleasing voice and acts with ease. The University Theatre has found a fine performer in Simons and will probably use him to its advantage in future productions.
The scenery for Harvey was plain but functional. Its only drawback was the
(Continued on Page 16)
MACBETH
By JOE McNITT, ’51
The Weiicl Sisters ......... Carol	Anthony. June
McCormick. James Langan Banquo ........................ J. Robert Dietz
Macbeth ...............-....... Stanley	Telchin
Lennox ........................... John Burns
Ross ............................. Keith Kirby
Macduff ..................... William	T. Kearns
Duncan ...................„....... Henry Sutton
Malcolm .......................... Frank Dolan
Donaldbain ...................... Helen	Brewer
Lady Macbeth .............. Teddy	Marie Kinsey
Messenger ..................... Harry J. Farrell
Fleance ..................... June McCormick
Porter .......................... James	Langan
Seston ........................... John	Burns
Fitst Murdeier ................ Harry J. Farrell
Second Murderer ................. Henry	Sutton
Lady Macduff .................... Carol	Anthony
Son to Macduff .................. Helen	Brewer
Doctor .......................... Henry	Sutton
Gentlewoman ..................... Carol	Anthony
Old Siward..................... J. Robert Dietz
Young Siward .................. June McCormick
Diiectoi ..................... Alan	Schneider
Within the limits of stage and setting, the strolling- Players Incorporated performed as capably as ever, recalling to mind their excellent job of a year ago in Julius Caesar. Macbeth has never ben an easy play to stage and in this instance the group was faced not only with the problem of appropriate setting, but of a limiting stage as well. Fortunately, Macbeth, like certain other Shakespearean tragedies, lends itself readily to the current theatrical trend toward expressionism, and the simplified set proved both functional and extremely flexible.
Mr. Alan Schneider’s direction was thorough and particularly well done in view of the above difficulties. Directing any Shakespearean play is largely a matter of personal taste and imagination, and Schneider obviously has a good deal of both. This was generally evident (Continued on Page 16)
ARMS AND THE MAN
By JOE McNITT, ’51
Raina ......................... Carol Anthony
Catherine ................ Teddy Marie Kinsev
Louka  ...................— June McCormick
Bluntschli ...................... John	Burns
An officer ..................... Frank	Dolan
Nicola .........................   Keith	Kirby
Major Petkoff ................. J. Robert Deitz
Sergius ....................... Henry* Sutton
Directorial notes ........... Basil Langton
On the evening following their presentation of Macbeth, the Players Incorporated did an about-face from high tragedy to comedy on a somewhat lower level. John Bull’s other playwright, the late Bernard Shaw, was represented by his A?'ms and the Man, a play that belies the classic origin of its title. As an indication of the versatility of the Players group it was a competent production. As an evidence of Shaw's genius for this sort of thing it was less rewarding.
Captain Bluntschli, well played by John Burns, is a Swiss mercenary in the Servian army. His highest interest is self-preservation and his military philosophy is comfort at all costs. Being addicted to chocolates, he carries them instead of bullets, thereby anticipating the modern field ration. Major Sergius Saranoff, on the opposing Bulgarian team, however, is the embodiment of the romantic tradition. He is the perfect Byronic soldier, complete with mus-tachios, who constantly reminds us that he “never withdraws.” How he is finally forced to withdraw by the realist
(Continued on Page 16)
Petkoff Family in 'Arms and the Man.'
Feb. 16, 1951
Harvey
(Continued from Page 15) poor placing of the fireplace. When the portrait of Elwood and the rabbit was hung more than a third of the audience could not see it — which minimized the humor of this bit.
As fine as this production was, it would undoubtedly be hard to give a second-rate performance of Harvey because of the play, itself. Mrs. Chase has written a wonderful and lasting comedy. It has a fey quality to it that is contagious with audiences. The spirit of her play is warm and friendly.
And that is how the audiences left Washington Hall on four nights this week. They had not only been entertained but they also left the play bearing some of the wholesome light which Harvey projects. The production, under Leonard Sommer’s direction, was a happy success. It generated but one misgiving.
That was, we can’t all be as fortunate as Elwood and find a companion comparable to Harvey. St. Patrick’s day is coming up soon so maybe there’ll be a number of green-coated rabbits roaming the streets of South Bend, leaning against the newly installed lamp-posts. Let’s hope so.
Macbeth
(Continued from Page 15) in the matter of “business” and particularly in the imaginative handling of Banquo’s murder. The problem of the mysterious “third murder”—a thorny one for many scholars—was neatly and efficiently disposed of by introducing one of the weird sisters at the proper moment. Perhaps the only outstanding fault in direction was the almost too-rapid pacing of individual scenes.
Like its setting, Macbeth’s lighting and effects were tasteful rather than excessive, with more emphasis on drama than decor. The posthumous appearance of Banquo, however, while well handled, was questionable, as in any production of the drama. Macbeth’s hallucinations, in both this and the dagger scene, are meant primarily to define a mental state, not to provide spectacle.
Unlike many of Shakespeare’s dramas, Macbeth is notable for a high concentration of action and character. The two principals are powerfully drawn and the action is, in one sense, a struggle of personalities. Teddy Marie Kinsey, as Lady Macbeth, probably emerged victor, but by a slender margin, for Stanley Telchin’s performance as Macbeth, though more restrained, was equally intense. Miss Kinsey was exceptionally fine from the beginning. Her ability to
16
hold the audience as surely during the letter-reading scene as during the most tense moments of Duncan’s murder was sufficient evidence of her talent. Lady Macbeth’s sleepwalking scene was the crown of Miss Kinsey’s performance, if not of the evening. Telchin’s shifty-eyed Macbeth was a powerful portrayal, though comprised of more strength than subtlety, particularly in the early scenes. With his “tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow”, however, he attained a dramatic level that was sustained to the end.
Worthy of honorable mention were William Kearns as Macduff and Henry Sutton in the dual roles of Duncan, the Scottish king, and the Doctor, both of which he handled with considerable ease. James Langan as the besoused porter contributed the inevitable touch of Shakespearean slapstick which by this time is of more historic than comic interest.
The magnitude of Macbeth’s tragedy, like that of Lear’s is extremely difficult to transfer successfully to the stage. Unlike the closet-dramas of Hamlet and Othello, its tragic grandeur is not of character alone, but of remote times and vast. distances, of ancient armies clashing on barren plains, of desolate heaths, of ghost-ridden banquet halls, and storm-attended witch gatherings. Only the screen, perhaps, is capable of containing all this. Orson Welles has accomplished it to some extent, but to the detriment of Macbeth himself. The Players have not made that mistake.
Arms and the Man
(Continued from Page 15)
Bluntschli is the substance of Arms and the Man, Shaw’s painless but provoking satire on exaggerated militarism and the “glory of war.”
Henry Sutton, receiving a wider scope for his abilities than was afforded-him in Macbeth, portrayed the pompous, ineffectual Sergius in a capable comic style somewhat reminiscent of the British Colonel Blimp. Carol Anthony’s energetic parody of the lovesick Raina Petkoff, torn between Bluntschli and Sergius, made the usual sacrifices of restraint and subtlety in favor of her comic interpretation. In this she received some spirited competition from Teddy Kinsey, playing Raina’s mother, and, incidentally, playing almost everyone else, except Sergius, off the stage. June McCormick, however, as Louka, managed to hold her own against the onslaught and to steal a few scenes of her own in an agreeable sort of way.
The question as to whether Arms and the Man can be treated on a musical comedy level is debatable. Oscar
Strauss first saw its possibilities in this respect and his light operetta The Chocolate Soldier has been widely popular. But Arms and the Man, as Shaw wrote it, has fewer social overtones than many of his other dramas, and that most of these were lost in the comic shuffle of the Players production was fairly obvious. The Servo-Bul-garian war was, to Victorian England, sufficiently remote to be treated in comic fashion, but Shaw was quite serious about Bluntschli and what he implied. The disillusioned view of romanticized war which Shaw took in 1894 came to full tide in the post-war twenties, and has not yet completely receded.
There are other overtures, of course: upon the ethics of war and peace treaties; upon the practice of importing mercenaries to direct wars; upon the servant-master relationship; upon the pseudo-aristocracy who pride themselves on washing “almost every day” and of owning a library, no less. All of which provided considerable merriment in Washington Hall last week, as it had done on opening night in London back in 1894. On that occasion, Shaw is said to have stepped briefly before the footlights to take a curtain call. The general ovation which greeted him was followed by a single, derisive catcall from the far reaches of the gallery. “My dear fellow,” replied the great man to his unknown critic, “I quite agree with you; but what are we two against so many?”
Fr. Hesburgh to Address NROTC's at Staff Smoker
The staff officers of the Notre Dame Naval ROTC unit will resurrect a tradition next Friday night in the Navy Drill Hall when they fete the midshipmen of the local unit at an informal “Staff Smoker.”
During World War II days a smoker arranged and presented for the NROTC students by the officers and staff members of the ND unit was an annual affair.
Festivities will begin at 7:45 p.m. and all NROTC members will be admitted upon presentation of their Navy ID cards.
An entertaining program has been arranged for the midshipmen guests. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will speak, the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke will offer selections from their recent Southern tour repertoire, and Gene Hull’s 16-piece orchestra wi|l present a swing concert. A “Do-you-want-to-lead-a-band” contest will be held and prizes will be given.
The Scholastic
'The
MAR-Di
GRAS
Julie Phelan draws the winning ticket for the auto as Frank Crovo
0iss

Photographs by JERRY SHEEHAN, ’54
watches.
Ollie Ce!usta, Mardi Gras head, presents keys to Joe LeBianc.
Solid rings
Over 20 booths covered the floor.
burst wide up by the
What a carnival!
The happy crowds shuffled through the huge Drill Hall, edging past brightly decorated booths where rough voiced barkers beckoned. Preparations for this gigantic event had been under way since before the Christmas holidays. j\nd then, like
a multi-colored skyrocket, the Carnival for two days before being swallowed solemnities of Lent.

of people surrounded them — made up of those playing and those trying to find a place. Nearly 10,000 people, attended the Carnival during its two-night stand. All proceeds will go to the Student Council’s Campus Charity Chest.
Feb. 16, 1951
|____

a
a speedway.
The hard-working, 16-man
Hawaiian Club
complete list of book winners.
where in this issue appears a campus and off-campus award
Mr. E. R. LeBlanc, of Ecorse, Mich., was the winner of the first automobile. Mrs. Anna Mortensen, of Elmhurst, N. Y., won the second car and her son, Gustavo Mortensen, of Breen-Phillips Hall, became eligible for the trip to South America.
The winner of the $100 prize offered for selling the most award books went to E. J. Murphy. Else-
Many students had their eye on this exotic trip below the equator. So who should end up with the prize in his hand but a student who was brought up in Ecuador? A tour to Iceland might have been more in order.
tive estimate on the entire undertaking’s net is $8,800.
copped the $25 award for having the most original and best decorated booth at the Carnival. All their prizes had been flown to the States and were
twr - .
An Irish Club worker finds himself betwixt and between a pigskin and money. Nearby Indianapolis clubbers run
The two car awards brought $12,084.94 into the kitty. The Carnival’s gross was $5,509.65. Although final figures have not been completed yet, a rough estimate for expenses, according to Mardi Gras committee chairmen, was $2,500 for the Carnival, and $6,300 for the car awards. A conserva-
Prize money for the best booth goes to Hawaiian Club's entry.
A financier spins the wheel as a trio of New Jerseyites try to estimate the weight of a young customer at their booth.
donated by the Honolulu Chamber of Commerce. The Washington, Maryland, and Virginia Club garnered the biggest single intake of the two-day affair and were presented with a prize of $25.
Within seconds after the final drawing for the second car took place on Tuesday night, the
Drill Hall echoed with hammering as the various clubs represented struck their booths.
The annual Mardi Gras Carnival was over. It had been great fun and had been the source of a large sum of money for charity purposes. It was a fitting climax to an active winter social season.
"Now see, you play the game like this. You can't lose." A Carnival-goer finds out how much he donated to charity.
. West of the Andes”
Soccer, Skiing, Studies Mark Muchachos’ Schooling in Notre Dame of South America
The noises grew louder as the warm breezes carried them through the open third-storey window. Pushing his chairback, the priest stood up and walked to the window. A short time ago he had given some of the younger students a volleyball and sent them out to play. Now in the distance the snow covered caps of the Andes mountains sent laughing shouts back through the Santiago air. The reason for the clamor became clear as he stared down to the court where the boys were playing. Ordinary volleyball had become monotonous so the St. George’s College group had enlivened the game by guiding and passing the ball around using only their heads. The priest from Quincy, Massachusetts, U.S.A., laughed and went back to his desk. The Chileans are a remarkable people.
Such agility is common west of the Andes. While Notre Dame students will tend to relax by “passing around” with a baseball or football, Muchachos all over Chile prefer to add in a little fancy head and footwork. When three of them get together the chances are that one of them will find an imaginary goal while the other two take turns trying to score with a ball, tin can or any other handy object that will seiwe the purpose. The students at St. George’s can use their heads in more ways than one.
Quakeless Classes r
From the top of their new earthquake-proof 20-classroom building with its offices, laboratories and chapel they can see the white-topped Andes rising from seven to fifteen thousand feet above the city. With such opportunities the St. Georgites would be loco not to take advantage of the chance for skiing. As this sport grows in popularity it becomes a common sight to see a group of students packing skis, blankets and equipment into a rented truck preparatory to going skimming down a mountainside only a few hours’ drive away.
Although skiing is a fast growing sport, soccer is still king. Even the automobile races around the continent in “souped-up” Chewies and Fords bow
20
By JOHN E. FITZGERALD, C.S.C.
in homage to the national pastime. Newspaper accounts of soccer matches are followed as avidly by Los Chilenos as sport fans north of the Andes would follow Notre Dame football or the National League results. But all is not skiing and soccer at St. George’s.
The classroom routine there is quite different from the procedure under the Golden Dome. The student body, although not as varied in race and nationality as Notre Dame’s, is much more diverse in its age groups. St. George’s trains students from the ages of six to eighteen. If you should ask
any of the Holy Cross Fathers who run it “How Come?” the explanation would probably be, “Well, St. George’s is not a college as Americans up here in the States would understand it . . . it’s more on the Junior College level. We teach under the so-called French System, that is, six years ‘Preparatory’ followed by six years further studies in ‘Humanities.’ ” The Preparatory is taught in English and little muchachi-tos six to eight years old can speak and read it very well. All classes, except English itself, are taught in Spanish during the Humanities section of training. It takes a full dozen years training before Juanito is ready to enter la universidad, whether it be the State University of Chile, the Catholic University of Chile or the University of Concepcion.
Civics Comes to Life
The subject of Civics is very popular since the students take a very keen and active interest in their government and its functions. From an early age at home they learn its intricacies and management and are as familiar with it as the North American boy is with sports. In fact they even mingle their government and sports interests. Young hombres will name their soccer teams after leading political candidates; and the resulting action is said to equal any Army-Notre Dame game in rivalry.
If you should ask .Ricardo Gomez or Alfredo Fabres, both on campus, what subjects they took while at St. George’s, the answer might seem more than a little stretched. Yet Jorge Canepa, new studying for the priesthood at Sacred Heart Novitiate in South Bend, would confirm the fact that in what is the equivalent of the Senior year of high school, the St. Georgian carries Religion, English, Spanish, History, the ever-popular Civics (Politics), French, Mathematics (Algebra and Geometry), Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Drill (Phy Ed), Music and even Philosophy — over a dozen subjects . . . and simultaneously.
Ricardo and Alfred now can wear sweaters, GI jackets and levis like their fellow students. Jorge now wears a cassock and sash like his fellow Novices. But only a few years ago they attended school in uniform. South American students have no feeling of regimentation for uniforms are the common thing for them to wear. A light gray suit with blue piping on the coat edge is worn to classes. The shirt is of matching color- and a large dragon emblem adorns the coat pocket. Their ensemble is topped off by a bright tie of ND blue and gold. But tie-cclor and sameness of administration are only a few of the many connections between the Dragon and the Dome. Up until two years ago the Champion St. George’s basketball team took to the floor wearing Notre Dame uniforms and jerseys. None of the spectators seemed to notice any incongruities.
The Scholastic
One Month “Cramming”
The ever-popular sports are forced into the background when the ever-unpopular examination time rolls around. There is really only one examination a year . . . and, needless to say, it is all-important. It may be either written or oral and is taken before a three-man commission appointed by the Ministry of Education from Santiago, the capital. For the Dragons as well as the Irish, Exam time is “cram” time. The tough thing about it is that the Dragons cram for a solid month. The school year which begins in the middle of March, ends in three full weeks of examinations lasting from November until Christmas. Since there is no governmental provision made, the Bishop of Santiago sends a priest as examiner for the Religion courses. The Chilean students have excellent memories for these examinations and are judged by many to be the most progressive of Latin Americans.
On the whole, the students and their countrymen are friendly, generous and polite. They resemble the North Americans closely in their excellent sense of humor and mechanical interests, loving to putter and tinker with tools as much as any U.S. amateur mechanic. They are so much like their Northern fellow Americans that their own neighbors, Peru to the North and Bolivia and Argentina to the East, have nicknamed them the “South American Yankees.” The Holy Cross Fathers there have made wonderful religious progress with this warm-hearted people. One has said, “Perhaps the best way we can describe the Chileans is by their own expression ‘muy simpatico’ which has a much larger meaning than the literal translation of ‘very gracious’.”
Several of the priests there were for
merly at Notre Dame: Fathers Alfred Send, Francis Provenzano, Elmer Gross and John Haley, all Holy Cross priests. The responsibility for the smooth-running administration of the college rests on Father Theodore Huard, c.s.c., the Superior and Rector.
Besides teaching at the college, the priests try to cover as much country and as many villages and towns as possible. While the students at St. George’s are principally from the upper classes, the priests also conduct a very large mission in one of the poorest sections of the city. This is under the direction of Father Joseph Doherty, C.S.C., who has set up a clinic with visiting dentist, laundry and shower for the workers as well as a mission kitchen which turns out almost a thousand meals a day. The word of Christ is carried to outlying districts in the countryside by means of week-end missions; but the shortage of manpower hinders the spread of the faith more than any other factor.
One Padre per 12,000
Although Chile has the highest population of priests in South America, one for every 3000 people, more than one-third of this number have come from the U.S. and Europe. In the year 1945 not a single priest was ordained in five dioceses, although they had a combined Catholic population of over a million. More than half of the 1750 priests that were there a few years ago were stationed in the two dioceses of Santiago and Valparaiso. Since a large part of northern Chile is a parched and sunburnt desert and the south is bleak and cold owing to its proximity to the Antarctic, most of the people live in the central part which is noted for its temperate climate and long fertile argicul-tural valleys. The Catholics in these
two dioceses form about a quarter of the entire population. There were only 830 priests for the rest of the country. Consequently, with this unequal distribution of clergy, in some parts of the north, there is only one priest for every 12,000 people!
While St. Georgians are in class, laborers in this northern section of the country are extracting sulhpur, gold, copper and silver from the mineral and nitrate beds of the bleak desert areas. More than half of her exports are copper bars; and nitrate accounts for 16% of Chile’s mineral export. Rainfall here is practically non-existent and aging abuelos tell their grandsons of having seen it rain when they were youths ... a far cry from the southern section of forest region where 50-day drizzles are common.
The “Dragons” worry little about rain for the Santiago climate is ideal. From four hundred thousand, “the city of the Mapocho River” has grown in population to much over a million inhabitants. President Gabriel Gonzales Videla has instituted many advancements: the number of schools has increased; education is free and compulsory between the ages of seven to fifteen; and the official illiteracy estimate of 24% is being cut down. Chile, in a word, is growing.
Despite her renown for up-to-date and efficient services of public social welfare, Chile’s biggest “growing-pain” is Communism which seeks to tear down the moral and educational advancements she has made. As Chile grows, so, too, St. George’s College grows. Still many more priests are needed to train Chile’s future leaders in the ways of truth. . . . Latin American missioners eager to make Christ known to those for whom He died.
Father Huard and some young amigos test a well-armed cactus. A majestic peak of the Chilean Andes towers over St. George.
Foundation Reports All-Time Record Year
Notre Dame Foundation officials are compiling the report for the year 1950 which shows the largest amount of gifts ever received by Notre Dame in a single year. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director, and Hon. Frank C. Walker, national chairman, together with the Foundation staff, are already launching the 1951 program.
The Foundation work was delayed in final form by the record-breaking end-of-the-year contributions when more than 2,000 gifts were received from Dec. 15 to 31. All gifts, large and small, receive formal acknowledgements, membership cards, and letters of personal thanks from the President or other members of the administration.
Alumni participation dropped some, from 7,517 gifts in 1949 to 7,114 gifts in 1950. Renewed emphasis on smaller annual gifts in 1951 will restore this loss. But through the generosity of two alumni, Mr. E. M. Morris, ’06, and Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, Hon. ’47, the Eighth Annual Alumni Fund (1949) within the
Try to think of it as just an extended vacation, Joe.
Foundation program, jumped from §506,231.16 in 1949 to $2,032,437.94 in 1950.
All gifts from alumni within the calendar year are credited by the Foundation as gifts to the Annual Alumni Fund, which was begun in 1942 by the Alumni Association, and which has provided the base for the broader Foundation program begun in 1947.
Gifts from non-alumni, the friends, parents of students, and the Greater Notre Dame Campaign in South Bend resulted in an increase in the number of contributors, from the previous high of 1,158 in 1949 to a new all-time high of 2,695 in 1950.
The total gifts from alumni and nonalumni, without including the year’s total in grants for fellowships and research, are $2,406,187.20. In 1949, the total figure for the year, including $407,305.70 in research grants was $2,416,647.37. This means a substantial total increase when the final 1950 report is assembled. However, the constant rise of costs will offset this increase, especially in those projects for which the Foundation is raising immediate funds: the Science Building and the utilities program.
Debating Team Places At Boston U. Tourney
With a record of 119 debates, both exhibitions and intercollegiate, since school began, the Notre Dame debate team participated recently with 22 other colleges including Dartmouth, Army, Navy, Georgetown, NYU, Penn, and Princeton in the Boston University Invitational Tournament. .
In the extemporaneous speaking elimination, Bill Carey won first prize and plaques for himself and the school.
The team led the field going into the final round of competition with a perfect 7-0 record, but Penn followed close behind with a score of 6-1. Penn took the lead in the last event to place first with the ND debaters taking second honors. A plaque was awarded to the University. Bill Carey and Al DeCrane, members of the placing squad, each received a plaque and a gold gavel, plus a citation of superiority. This is the fourth consecutive year the team had advanced to the finals and they were defending champions this year.
At the Azalea Festival Debate Tournament, held at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., Notre Dame, represented by Al DeCrane and Tom Field, took second place out of a field of 20 participating schools. The team received a trophy for their 7-1 record.
William Fagan placed third for the University at the Indiana Contest of the Interstate Oratorical Association, Feb. 9, at Goshen College.
The National Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association will sponsor- the Indiana State Contest, March 8, at Earlham College, Richmond, Ind. There will be two contests — oratory and extemporaneous speaking. State prizes will be $25, $15, $10 for three top men.
Any students who wish to enter this contest may see William Eisen, 328 Main Building, by next Wednesday. Orations are limited to 1200 words and the list of topics for extemporaneous speaking is available from the Speech Department.
Language Dept. Presents New Foreign Film Series
Eight foreign feature-length films are being offered by the Department of Modern Languages during the current semester to provide students of foreign languages the opportunity to achieve some first-hand contact with foreign tongues.
Two films — a French comedy titled The Well-Digger's Daughter, and an Italian musical Forbidden Music— have already been shown. The remaining six
22
The Scholastic
films will be run according- to the following schedule, in the Engineering Auditorium, beginning at 7:30 p.m. on the specified days.
Tickets for the entire series are sold at one dollai- each. Admission to single shows is twenty-five cents pel1 person. Tickets are available to all interested students at room 231 Main Building. They will also be sold at the Engineering Auditorium on the nights of the films.
March 1 — Los Heroes del Barrio (Spanish). This enjoyable story filmed in Spain tells of a group of neighborhood youngsters who under circumstances of necessity form a sort of vaudeville company and eventually achieve national success.
March 15 — La Boheme (German). Starring Jan Kiepura and Martha Eg-gerth, this film is based on the opera of the same name and contains several of the Puccini arias, as well as some othei- fine musical numbers.
March 29—Colonel Chabert (French). Raimu and an all-Comedie Francaise cast in the story of one of Napoleon’s soldiers. Fine portrayal of the atmosphere of the French Restoration.
April 26 — Kongo, Roja, (Spanish). This is a lively film of intrigue and violence in the setting of a southern coastal state of Mexico. With Pedro Armendariz in the lead, Maria Anto-nieta Pons and Tona la Negra dance and sing a number of tropical rhythms.
May 10—A Yank in Rome (Italian). A very attractive comedy of an American GI who falls in love with a beautiful but shy Italian schoolteachei- while in Rome on a seven-day pass. The film is bi-lingual (Italian and English), with English titles to translate the Italian dialogue.
NFCCS Drafts Plan For Regional Meeting
At the NFCCS regional council meeting at St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, last weekend, the Notre Dame Inter-American Affairs and La Raza clubs were granted the temporary chairmanship of the regional Inter-American Action Commission. CarLLish, a Commerce Senior and president of the campus IAA club, will serve as chairman.
Also of importance to Notre Dame was the drafting of plans for the regional congress, to be held here April 7-8. NFCCS Junior Delegate John O’Connell is congress chairman.
Jo Ann Madler, regional president from St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, announced that the national NFCCS congress will be held this summer, during the last week in August, in St.
Paul, Minn., with St. Thomas College and College of St. Catherine as host schools. The congress was originally scheduled for Notre Dame, but because of a special program which will be in effect here at that time, the site had to be changed.
Other features of the council meeting included the evaluation of regional commissions, International Relations and Student Government receiving the highest praise, and the Treasurer’s report. Each senior delegate was asked to raise additional funds to supplement the overburdened treasury of the region.
The council meeting lasted approxi-
Vetville Residents Elect Mayor for Spring Term
Dale G. Fallon, of Malone, N. Y., was elected mayor of Vetville for the .second semester term. Mr. Fallon is a teaching fellow in political science and is working for his doctor’s degree. He received his bachelor’s degree from Michigan State in 1941 and his master’s from Buffalo Union in 1946.
Dale G. Fallon
After his graduation from Michigan State, Mr. Fallon taught in Michigan and Angola, N. Y. high schools. In 1946 he was on the faculty of Sampson College.
The new mayor stated that the Vetville council is planning an extensive social program and improvements for the coming year.
To serve on the council for the second semestei- the vetville residents elected Bob Gullie, Fred Lik, Al Hundshamer, Edward Reardon, Glover Colladay, and John Neatherton.
mately five hours, beginning on Friday evening and reconvening on the following moi-ning.
A regional leadership workshop followed the council session on Saturday and Sunday. This consisted of four panel discussions, on the Catholic Student as a Leader in International Affairs, in the Religious Sphere, in Social Action, and in Student Affairs, and four addresses.
Very Rev. Leo Pursley, auxiliary bishop of Fort Wayne, spoke on “What the Church Expects from the Leadership of the Catholic College Student.” Three other- prominent Catholic leaders dealt with the Catholic lay woman, and the expectations of the laity and of the Catholic student in a secular college.
Notre Dame was represented at the council meeting and the workshop by Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., campus NFCCS moderator, delegates Jim Garvin and John O’Connell, Carl Lish, Abelardo Patino, and Don Carbone.
Symposium
(Continued from Page 11) has no real national organization.” He pointed out that Catholic bishops have not held a major national meeting on policy since the plenary council of Baltimore in 1884.
“Spiritual and moral ministration is the chief work so far of the Catholic Church in the United States,” Father McAvoy declared. “It has kept millions of American citizens going to church regularly and kept them instructed in Christian doctrine and morals.”
In an address on “Church and State in the Twentieth Century,” the Rev. John C. Murray, S.J., Professor of Theology and Editor of Theological Studies at Woodstock, Md., College, vowed that free nations throughout the world must preserve the freedom of the Church in order to ensure continued freedom of the people.
“The freedom of the Church and the freedom of the people are synonymous in all nations,” Father Murray told the Notre Dame audience. “Where one perishes, the other is sure to follow.”
Father Murray pointed out that under the Communist order, all freedom, both of Church and people, is abolished. He reminded the audience that “in the Communist state, freedom is not an endowment of the individual, but rather an endowment of the State.”
In another symposium address, Dr. Robert F. Byrnes, of Rutgers University, declared that “the presence of Communists to take advantage of the crises drove many conservatives in France into a renewed appreciation of the social value of the Church.” Speaking on “The Catholic Church in
Feb. 16, 1951
23
France,” Dr. Byrnes said that “the new humanism defined and developed by such organs critical of the M.R.P. and the Third Force at ‘Esprit’ may help to return France to the reliance upon those values and principles which alone make the western world worth saving.’’
“If the Fourth Republic can remain sturdy, from them may come ultimately the new humanism, this time a Christian humanism, to reduce the state and again raise man to the status from which he has been reduced everywhere by the forces and ideas dominant throughout modern history,” Dr. Byrnes ventured.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Editor of the Rerieu- of Politics and chairman of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, told the conclave that “a flourishing Catholic activity is in effect in Western Germany, in contrast with the sad situation in the East.”
"In East Germany, where the USSR has established a German satellite, the Church is kept away from public life,” Dr. Gurian, speaking on “The Catholic Church in Germany," declared. “The Marxian ideas dominate education and there are no Catholic publications or associations. The same policy is directed against the Church there as, in varying degrees, in the other Soviet satellites.”
In West Germany, by contrast, Dr. Gurian declared that “Churches have been rebuilt, a new clergy has arisen — though there are less vocations now among the country people than there used to be — Catholic organizations have reappeared as well as Catholic publications.”
Speaking on “The Catholic Church in American and Social Issues,” Dr. Aaron I. Abell, associate professor of History at Notre Dame, declared that “the core idea in Americanism has, to a degree, guided the Church in its dealings with the problems of industry and labor.”
“It is only in comparatively recent years . . . that Church authorities have felt it necessary to urge Catholics to strive for economic justice,” Dr. Abell said. “Catholics have acted without any stimulus from their religious guides. Rather the role of the Church has been to caution, to restrain and to inculcate right principles while leaving the application of the principles to the Catholics themselves.
“By its sympathy for a labor movement aiming at legitimate ends through not improper means and by refraining from any demand directly to lead the movement, the Catholic Church in the United States has displayed an economic liberalism unique in the history of organized religion. ... To this result the hard core of Americanism has con-
DESK LAMPS
SLIDE RULES
BLOTTER PADS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Business Systems
126 S. Main
Acioss from Court House
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
OUR SPECIALTY
1/2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Gobs of Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.15
JOE NABICHT S RESTAURANT
"Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sunday
Osluottfj’s
America’s Favorite Shirt
Arrow Dart’
3.95
Yes, “Dart” is America’s top white shirt and we have it in a wide range of sizes. “Dart’s” famous, non-wilt, medium point-collar is good looking and perfect fitting. Sanforized broadcloth . . . Mitoga cut for better body fit.
men’s shop MAIN FLOOR
tributed?
24
The Scholastic

DePaul, Spartans End Irish Home Slate
Demons Here Tonight To Try for Repeater
This week marks the final home appearance of Edward “Moose” Krause as Notre Dame’s Head Basketball Coach. The DePaul game tonight and the Michigan State encounter Monday close out the local season for the Irish basketeers and wind up the fieldhouse career of Coach Krause, who is retiring in favor of his more important job as Director of Athletics.
Clem Pavilonis
In view of past performance, Notre Dame seems heading for a rough two games. Both teams have posted earlier triumphs over the home five. DePaul licked the Irish only last week in the Chicago Stadium by a 68-54 count.
Big men for the Chicago team are Capt. Bato Govedarica and Clem Pavilonis. Govedarica was the chief troublemaker last week as he accounted for 17 points, 11 of which were acquired at the charity line. Both the 5’11” captain and Pavilonis are averaging better than 14 points a game. Six-foot seven-inch Pavilonis will play the pivot position.
Pairing- up with Govedarica at the forward post will be 6’2” Jack Lahey
Inspired Irish Upset Highly Ranked St. Louis; Bagley Ties ND Scoring Mark With 31 Points
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish, led by Dan Bagley, engineered one of the biggest upsets of the 1950-51 basketball campaign when they whipped St. Louis University, 77-70, here last Tuesday night. St. Louis was a heavy favorite to take the Irish, both on the basis of an early season triumph over the Irish in St. Louis and a strong 18-4 season record. All that went by the boards when Dan Bagley rose up to score 31 points to show the way for a fast-breaking Notre Dame team that literally ran the Billikens into the ground. Bagley’s 31 points tied the Notre Dame scoring mark set by Vince Boryla, now with the New York Knickerbockers.
The pattern of the game was set early in the first half when the Irish jumped to a quick 7-0 lead and refused to be headed. With the fast break clicking and Bagley and Leslie hitting almost at will, the Irish ran up a tremendous 46-20" halftime lead. They did nothing wrong during this hectic first period and St. Louis did nothing right. Billiken coach Ed Hickey used 11 players in the first half in an attempt to find a scoring combination, but the Irish stopped them all.
As the second half started, it appeared as though a ridiculous rout was in the making. The Irish were 26 points ahead and St. Louis looked like a group of sandlotters. Then the whole picture changed. The Billikens returned to the
who has a 13-point game average. Ron Feiereisel and Bob Kampa will operate in the guard slots.
Ray Meyer’s boys will carry a 12-7 record into tonight’s game. And if the Irish exhibit the brand of basketball they did in the Stadium, DePaul should have easy going. The ND floor game was more than just erratic and their shooting left much to be desired. From
floor and put on one of the greatest shooting exhibitions ever seen at Notre Dame. Koch hit for eight baskets on 10 attempts and Scott hit for five more as the Notre Dame lead dwindled. But the Irish didn’t crack under the pressure, thanks to Dan Bagley who put on a one-man show and kept St. Louis out of hailing distance until it was too late. With seven minutes to go the Billikens trailed by only 10 points but the Irish put on a freeze and forced St. Louis to come to them. In the closing minutes the Krausemen slipped through the pressing Billiken defense for enough buckets to keep the game out of St. Louis’ reach. The Irish simply outran the vaunted Billikens in the first half and refused to go under when St. Louis rammed 50 points through the hoop in the second. That’s how this upset was made.
Notre Dame	B	F P	St. Louis U.	B F P
Baglev. f 			 13	5 3	Scott, f 		7 I 3
Leslie. £ 			 7	6 4	Sonnenberg, f _	3 14
Lewinski. c ..	..._ 1	2 5	Koch, c		8 1 4
Gibbons, g ..	2	1 3	Kovar, c 		3 1 3
O’Connor, g		 1	2 2	Steiner, g		3 1 4
Ncumavr. f ..	..... 3	0 1	McKenna, f		3 3 3
Wrav. c 		2	2 3	French, f 		1 0 0
Fichte), g 		..... 6	1 4	Schaulat, c		1 0 0
Eaton, g 		..... 0	0 0	Lillis, g 		0 2 2
			Russell, g		1 0 0
	—	—. —		— 	 	
	29	19 25		30 10 24
Freethrows missed: Bagley. Leslie, Lewinski, 2; O'Connor, Scott. 2: Koch. 2; Kovar, Steiner, 3; Lillis, 2: McKenna, 2.
Score at half: Notre Dame, 46; St. Louis U-, 20.
Officials: Jim Enright. Cliff Ogden.
the foul line Notre Dame could connect on but 18 occasions while missing on 16.
Notre Dame was ahead- only once, early in the game, by a slim 3-2 margin. The Demons then jumped ahead to a comfortable lead and left the court at half time with a 39-26 edge.
DePaul maintained that distance pretty well until midway in the half.
(Continued on Page 29)
Feb. 16, 1951
Bengals Mastermind on Job for 17th Year; 'Nappy' Trains Boxers, Not Belters, for Bouts
By CARL EIFERT, 51
It’s a safe wager that without one Dominic Napolitano of the Notre Dame Department of Physical Education there wouldn’t be any Bengal Bouts to attract fisticuff fans each year to the ND fieldhouse. Notre Dame and Michiana owe a lot to the boxing mentor from Pleasantville, N. Y.
, “Nappy” came to Notre Dame from high school eager to gain a place on the intercollegiate boxing team. It didn’t take him long to find out Notre Dame restricted its boxing to phy ed classes but that didn’t hold him back from sports competition. Napolitano called upon his experience in high school where he played quarterback, forward, and second baseman and the freshman football and basketball squads soon had the scrappy New York stater playing along with them. But gridiron and cage fame were not destined to be Nappy’s — an afternoon job forced him to give up varsity athletics in his sophomore year.
His long career as instructor for the Bengal bouters started when Napolitano was still an undergraduate. It was 1931 when the Bengals were inaugurated, and it was 1931 when Nappy began his association with the University Boxing
Yep! Nappy trained a boy who beat Joe Louis.
Notre Dame is like home to Napolitano — he’s been here since his Freshman year. After getting his B.S. in Physical Education in 1932 he stayed on as a member of the faculty of that department and worked on his master’s degree.
Boxing is the thing that counts with Nappy; rough-house has no part in his idea of the ring. It’s competition and sportsmanship that really hold value for him. Blood is for the professionals as far as Nappy is concerned. He is interested in seeing his boys fight clean and with good form. In accordance with his views, headgears will be used again this year as in 1950.
The National College Boxing Association’s rules are followed for the Bengals so that the sport remains a sport. Twelve-ounce gloves are used — not eight-ounce. The rounds are limited to two minutes, and blood is enough to make the referee stop the match. Points are the thing that decides the “winnah.”
Prognostications are not in order yet from Nappy’s point of view. The newcomers haven’t been out long enough to get a line on the prospective champs.
Napolitano makes some of his boys look out-of-shape as he dances around the old gym atop the fieldhouse. His graying hair matches his sweat suit, but the suit still lives up to its name with Nappy working up a few gallons as he goes through gyrations explaining punches and defenses. He does quite a bit of “roadwork” as he dashes back and forth between groups of fighters who are sparring, hitting the heavy bag or skipping rope. It’s one of Nappy’s rules that no one fights in the Bengals who hasn’t gone through his gruelling two-month training session. Thanks to this training there hasn’t been a serious injury in the history of the Bengals.
When you’re over in the fieldhouse next month enjoying the fine bouts, just remember this: they are good fights because Dominic Napolitano has spent two months training them. Let’s not forget the man behind the boys in the ring. Nappy is the man who put them there.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 16—BASKETBALL, DePaul, here
16—FENCING, Kentucky, here
17—TRACK, Western Michigan and Marquette, here
19—BASKETBALL, Michigan State, here
Championships in the capacity he now holds. The boys who aspired to become champs had to know a little about boxing to accomplish it, so Nappy took over and showed them how to counter, fade with a punch and also how to sling a little leather.
The 20th annual Bengal Bouts, which are scheduled for March 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10, would mark Nappy’s 20th year with the bouts if it hadn’t been for the war. In 1943-45 he was out of the Notre Dame Bengal scene, but the fistic teacher was still plying his art at the naval pre-flight school at Iowa. Since 1946 he’s been back at Notre Dame and the Bengals with the same fidelity and love foi' boxing.
All we have to do to see that boxing is Napolitano’s field is to take a look at the record of one of his boys who made good in bigger matches. Max Marek fought in the 1932 Bengals. Max was one of the three local champs who went to Chicago for the CYO bouts and came back with scalps. Marek was to be the greatest of the three, but this was unknown until a few years later when his victim became famous under the pseudonym of the Brown Bomber.
"Nappy" shows several
Bengal Bouters the correct way of throwing a right cross.
26
The Scholastic
You Had Your Ten Points
A peculiar form of mass hysteria usually associated with Indiana basketball made its appearance a week ahead of schedule this year, last Tuesday night in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Four thousand delirious, fortunate fans saw a Notre Dame basketball team run one of the nation’s finest cage squads off the court in the first half and then hang on in the second to win what was one of the most thrilling basketball games ever played under the fieldhouse roof.
If we were to give credit to those who made the win over St. Louis possible we’d have to list about every Student in the University. The support given the team was the best all year, and it really showed up in their play. The Billikens weren’t on the floor two minutes when they suddenly wished they were back in St. Louis reading the press clippings on their wins over Kentucky, Bradley and Long Island U. With each passing minute they became more and more homesick, and they were really sobbing for the friendly quarters of Kiel Auditorium when they left the court at halftime, 26 points down.
But Ed Hickey wiped away their tears between halves and his charges came back strong — fortunately not quite strong enough. And, as it turned out, it was the ten points from the stands that meant the difference between winning and losing. The way the Billikens were rushing their shock troops in and out, the' Irish had to have something more than physical stamina to keep going and win.
Every team member played what we’re sure he considers the best game of his basketball career. Dan Bagley was the heart and soul of the Notre Dame scoring attack with 31 points, to become co-holder with Vince Boryla of the ND single game scoring record. Leroy Leslie, Jim Gibbons, Marty O’Connor and every other Irish eager never played harder. Bob Wray did a tremendous job filling in for the foulhandicapped Lewinski, battling for the ball, grabbing rebounds and making a general nuisance of himself to the St. Louis cause.
But the season isn’t over yet. The ball players still need those ten points
gg^gg &
per, and you have only two more chances to give this year. One is tonight against DePaul; the other is next Tuesday against Michigan State. Both have beaten ND before this year, so there’ll be old scores to settle. Let’s make Moose Krause’s last two performances as Notre Dame basketball coach winning ones.
End of the Road
If all but two members of the various Notre Dame coaching staffs came down with some mysterious ailment and were forced to give up coaching for a year or two, the Notre Dame Athletic Department would still be able to operate, thanks to the two men the germ missed.
This is a roundabout way of saying there are a couple of cogs in the Athletic Department who have performed just about every job connected with athletics. In theii* long coaching careers they’ve masterminded every sport we have here at Notre Dame as well as a few we don’t have, such as hockey and swimming. One is just winding up his coaching career this season; the other is just starting his first year as a coach at his alma mater. You’ve probably guessed their names by now — Moose Krause and Alex Wilson.
Moose was - just a 21-year-old youngster when he graduated from Notre Dame with All-American honors in both football and basketball. He was a big man even then, and he got a big job, too, up at St. Mary’s college in Winona, Minn. Moose was appointed coach of all sports, seven to be exact, and in his spare time he served as Athletic Director. Even when the teams took to the road, they kept Moose busy. Yep, he drove the bus.
Moose must have been pretty wrapped up in his work at St. Mary’s because it was five years before he realized how bloomin’ cold it got there in the wintertime, and when a chance came to move East to the comparative warmth of the Holy Cross campus of Worcester, Mass., as line coach of the Holy Cross football team, he jumped at the chance.
Since then it’s been a case of each individual job getting larger and the number of them getting smaller until
after this current basketball season, he’ll only have to worry about being Director of Athletics. After having been coach of seven sports, serving as team chauffeur and college Athletic Director, Moose won’t know what to do with himself.
The other half of this versatile duo didn’t move around as much as Moose did. Alex Wilson spent the last 18 years at Loyola in Chicago where he served as cross country, track and swimming coach since his graduation from Notre Dame. Besides that, he also served as Director of Athletics and had charge of the University’s intramural sports program. During the track season, Alex was his own groundskeeper. Before each meet he’d be out on the cinders, smoothing the turns and straightaways. Now that he can direct all this ambition toward track, Notre Dame should be well represented in this sport in the years to come.
Fencers Take Two in Ohio; Lose Here to lllini Squad
The Notre Dame fencing team won two and lost one in three meets in four days’ to bring their season record up to the .500 mark — two won and two lost.
Traveling to Cleveland last Friday, Coach Walter Langford’s Fighting Irish squelched the swordsmen of Case Institute, 22-5. The best performance of the day was turned in by the Irish’s eppeman Brian Duff who won his three matches without being scored upon. Ernie Franzgrote also won three in epee. In the foil events, co-captains Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi won all theii* matches as did Paul Gibbons in sabre.
The next night at Columbus, Notre Dame met the Buckeyes of Ohio State and won their second victory, 16-11. Again paced by Scalera with three wins, the foil team piled up a 7-2 lead. Charlie Daschle won his three matches as the Irish took a 5-4 decision in sabre. Ohio State took the epee events, 5-4. Duff and Franzgrote led the way in epee each winning two and dropping one.
Back on their home ground, the Irish saw their early lead rapidly disappear as the powerful Illinois sabre squad swept eight out of nine matches. Led by Jay Conlon in epee and Scalera in foil, who each won their three bouts, Notre Dame led, 10-8, when the sabremen took the mat. But the lllini proved too tough in this event and won their third consecutive meet as they trounced, the Irish, 16-11. Only Daschle with his sole win stopped the sabre series from being a complete rout.
Feb. 16, 1951
’27
Triangular Track Meet Tomorrow in Gym;
Marquette, Western Michigan Engage Irish
Marquette and Western Michigan will oppose the Notre Dame trackmen in the local field house tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 in- a meet that promises to be a thriller. On comparative scores, at least, Marquette and Notre Dame are even. Marquette swamped Bradley University two weeks ago by almost as bad a score as the 84-30 margin that Notre Dame ran up on the hapless Braves last Saturday. Western Michigan has some good individuals who could hurt either Notre Dame or Marquette, but isn’t expected to have enough team strength to be a serious contender for a victory.
The high jump and the shot put, the first events, will start at 1:30 and the running events will get underway at 2:00. The meet should be over- by 3:30 if it moves along as smoothly as last week’s did.	'
Best race of the day should be the mile where Notre Dame’s Connie Tetrault might surprise Marquette’s highly-touted sophomore, John Stearns, and Western Michigan’s equally highly-touted Russ- Gabier, the mile winner at the Michigan State Relay Meet. Notre Dame’s sophomore milers, George Helf-enstein and Harry Snyder, could give these two outsiders just as hard a race as Tetrault. Last Saturday all three milers deliberately tied for first place in the warmup meet with Bradley.
It’s pretty likely that Marquette’s Stearns and Western Michigan’s Gabier will also double in the two-mile run. Facing them will be a Notre Dame trio of Ben Almaguer, Bob Fieler, and
John Joe O’Connor which also finished in a deliberate tie last week against the Bradley Braves in meet record time.
The Irish runners all along the line will welcome the competition tomorrow, since it will give them a chance to show what they can do when pushed. Last week Notre Dame wasn’t even extended as she swept every flat running event. Bradley was able to score only in the hurdles, some of the field events, and the mile relay, where a “consolation prize” of five points is given to the losing team.
The opposition tomorrow is going to have to do some fancy stepping against Notre Dame’s three sensational half milers, team captain Vai Muscato, John Mohar, and Sam Hoover, who pushed each other to a sensational race last Saturday. That afternoon the trio set a fast pace from the start and soon left their opponents too far behind to even swallow the dust kicked up by their flying feet. With a lap to go Mohar led by ten yards, but Muscato started driving, caught Mohar 20 yards from the tape, and won by two yards in the meet record breaking time of 1:56.8. Mohar’s time was 1:57.0 and Hoover’s about 1:59.0, all very fast.
Tomorrow’s quarter mile figures to be another good race with Axel Johnson and Art Schuh of Marquette taking on Notre Dame’s Jim Bollas, Jack Wagner, and Norm Feltes. These three finished in that order against Bradley. Bollas’ winning time of 51.4 equalled the meet record.
Notre Dame also swept the 60-yard dash and the high jump last week. Buck Ewing, Fred Weber, and Dave Flood did the trick in the sprint in that order, and Al Kohanowicz won and Tom Devine and Tom Hassinger tied for second in the high jump. Marquette will throw some competition at these fellows in the form of sprinters Dick Schmandt and Mel Stroud, and jumpers Jerry Pfarr and Jerry Kenkel.
Another meet record set last week was in the broad jump where John Worthington surpassed the late Ray Es-penan’s record set in 1949. Stroud of Marquette will be Worthington’s chief opposition in this event tomorrow.
Marquette has a good pole vaulter in Bob Cobb and a good shotputter in John Vishnevsky, last year’s Central Collegiate Champ in the outdoor Closed Meet’s shot and discus. Opposing these two will be Notre Dame’s Bob Toneff, shot-put victor in last week’s meet, and Tom Hinkes, who tied for the victory in the pole vault.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51
NROTC Rifle Team Defends Hearst Tournament Crown
The Notre Dame NROTC rifle team has recently completed firing matches in defense of the national Hearst Competition tournament which the local squad has won for the past two years. The results of the Hearst tourney will not be known until early March.
The NROTC sharpshooters have been in 21 matches this season. They won 19, lost to Pennsylvania U, and tied with Columbia U.
They are currently competing in the National Collegiate ROTC Matches.
Bob Toneff shows winning shot put form
Al Kohanowicz squirmed over the bar on this leap to cop first place in high jump.
28
The Scholastic
Basketball
(Continued, from Page 25)
Here Jim Gibbons sparked a rally that pulled the Irish within seven points. Holding a precarious 61-54 lead with three minutes remaining, DePaul spurted beyond reach on Bob Kampa’s five markers and Gene Dyker’s two-pointer to wind up the game at 68-54.
That 68 points the Demons rolled up is the figure their game average has been hovering at all season. However, they are weak defensively and a hot night at the hoops for the Irish could do the trick.
Michigan State will journey down from East Lansing Monday night for their return game with the NDers. During the semester holidays the Irish invaded the Spartan stronghold and suffered a crushing defeat. The long layoff definitely handicapped the locals, but MSC has played good ball throughout the season and their win was not necessarily a fluke.
As of now, they stand far down in the Big Ten rankings. Their record against Notre Dame opponents has been much the same as the Irish’s. Last Monday they toppled Northwestern for the second time. The Irish also shaded the Wildcats twice. Final tuneup for the Spartans before tangling in the Fieldhouse will be the traditional meeting with Michigan tomorrow night in East Lansing.
Bob Carey will carry most of the scoring load for the Michigan five. Carey, a two-sports star — he was end on the ND all-Opponent football team — is a husky 212 pounds and is even up with “Gootch” Lewinski in the height department, both boys going 6’5”. On his last visit here, Carey re
versed the course taken by other basketball stars, who usually fold in the hostile fieldhouse, and dropped in 28 points for a losing cause.
Captain Jim Snodgrass, 6’1”, 175 pounds, and Sonny Means, 5’11”, 170 pounds, should get the nod from State’s new basketball coach, Pete Newell, for the guard assignments.
In all probability the Spartans will split the forward post, with Gordie Stauffer, Ray Steffen, and Bill Bower. Steffen is the tallest of the three veterans, being 6’5”.
Coach Newell, returning to his Alma Mater* from a highly successful stay at the University of San Francisco, likes sound basketball with emphasis on defensive strength. Since last year’s State team compiled an unenviable 4-18 record, Newell is faced with the task of rebuilding. Therefore it is more than likely that the Spartans will be stronger than when the Irish met them last month. But if the team can turn on the heat as it did against St. Louis, then Coach Krause’s leavetaking will surely be a happy one.
Keglers Release Standings; Detroit, Pitt, Buffalo in Van
Well into the main part of the season it’s Detroit, Pittsburgh and Buffalo leading in the Kampus Keglers competition. The Detroiters lead the Gold league, while Pittsburgh and Buffalo are tied for* the number one spot in Blue League play. Erie is second in the Gold league, and the Metallurgists are right behind the Blue leagueleaders.
In single competition, Endreseric of the Kansas City club takes in the Blue league honors with a 184 average.
Glider Club Begins Work To Gain Licenses by Spring
The Notre Dame Glider Club has opened its membership to the entire student body, and members are working on CAA license applications in the hope that they will be approved before flying starts again.
The membership drive got under way at a meeting held Feb. 7, which also included an orientation session for those admitted to the club near the end of last semester.
A schedule has been drawn up whereby each club member is assigned to a flight section. These sections wi|l operate on different days of the week, and it is expected that this system will enable the men to fly more often. In addition, a plan has been worked out to enable prospective flyers to spend at least ninety minutes in the link trainer at the aeronautical building, as required for a Civil Aeronautical Association license.
Shannon of the league-leading Detroiters has set down the pins to the tune of 183 per game. Jerry Sheehan of the Chicago Club has single high game honors. for the season thus far with a resounding 231. Another Detroiter, Stan Insley has high three-game score with 589.
Detroit and Erie are one-two in the high three-game department, the Automobile City boys having hit 2813, the Pennsylvanians 2810. Erie also holds the high single team game with 975.
Doubles competition will be featured on Sunday, Feb. 25, according to an announcement by Mike Piarulli, club president.
A strike coming up as the Kampus Keglers* leading bowler, Jim Shannon, rolls one.
Second place Erie Club gets set to roll
Feb. 16, 1951
29
Ben Almaguer Slays Foe With Killing Pace; Credits Prep Coach, Alex Wilson for Success
By BILL LONDO, ’53
After Notre Dame’s two-mile trio finished in a hand-in-hand dead heat against the Bradley Braves last Saturday, one of the victorious triumvirate kept right on running. This was no surprise to those who followed ND track fortunes last year, but many a Freshman wondered what manner of human machine this was that could sprint two more laps after 16 recordbreaking ones.
As a sophomore lithe Ben paced the cross country team through one of its better seasons, including a second in the Central Collegiates. He also was a consistent point-getter in the two-mile on both the indoor and outdoor track squads.
Last fall the citizen of Monmouth, Illinois, with the help of his new coach Alex Wilson, improved his cross country time until he blazed over the four-mile Notre Dame course in 20:06, only 14 seconds short of the record held by Wisconsin’s fabulous Don Gehrmann.
A Monmouth High School gym class is what started Almaguer on the road to track fame. As Ben puts it, “We had to run around the block a couple of times one day and I finished so far ahead that our instructor made me come out for track.”
This innocent experience launched a ' brilliant four-year high school career climaxed by county, district, and finally the state mile championship in 1947. The latter is Ben’s biggest sports thrill for he had competition from a great field, including Warren Druetzler, now star and captain of Michigan State’s crack cinder squad.
Ben attributes most of his high school and college success to the instruction of his senior coach Newton Kyle. “He saw I had the potential endurance necessary, but needed speed work, so that’s what we worked on.” Almaguer readily admits that endurance is still his most important asset, and anyone who has seen his methodical cross country performances or watched the dark speedster’s pace in the tough two-mile will agree with that.
Like all good distance men Almaguer tries to run his race according to a time schedule; but, when faced with an opponent who is known to have a faster final kick, Ben will set a speedy pace to make the most of his staying powers and to run his foe out of gas.
In contrast to many athletes who set a certain sports star as the man they would like to equal, Ben has no spe
cial hero. He wisely says, “I have enough trouble making myself a winning Notre Dame two-miler without bothering about a hero.”
Ben Almaguer
An A.B. student majoring in Latin American Studies, he would like to work south of the border or teach after his graduation, but if his performance holds up and his time improves, the Monmouth flyer would like to continue running. “I would especially like to run the longer distances after I leave Notre Dame, if I improve,” is the way Ben sums up his hopes.
With four of the top stars in last year’s track cast missing from the scene, much of the load of Coach Wilson’s first season will fall on Ben’s capable shoulders. And Benny feels that with the competent direction of Wilson, whom he admires very much, he can improve enough to satisfy the Coach’s trust, and fulfill his own track dreams.
Standard Oil Brings Course In Selling Technique to ND
The Standard Oil Co. will offer its extensive sales training program to Notre Dame students this Spring, according to Mr. J. M. Kessinger, sales manager of Standard’s Indiana Division, and the campus Marketing Club, which is sponsoring the course.
Notre Dame is one of three universities in the United States chosen for this
instruction, which is the same training program that the company gives college graduates upon entering its sales division.
The ten-week course will include lectures by company personnel, actual . practice in sales work, both at the company’s South Bend office and here at the University, and numerous movies on marketing technique.
While the program is primarily for members of the Marketing Club, a limited number of other students may take the course. Those interested may obtain details at 319 Dillon.
The Marketing Club also announced this week that its members will visit the Merchandise Mart, Board of Trade, and Marshall Field in Chicago on March 2. Tours of these establishments will be followed by conferences with different executives on the specific marketing concepts involved in their work.
Captain Conley Reveals Success of 17 NROTC's
A total of 17 NROTC Freshman con- ' tract students passed the nation-wide competitive examinations for Naval scholarships under the “Holloway Plan.”
In another announcement, Captain Conley revealed that all NROTC students commissioned in the Naval Reserve upon graduation during 1951 will be ordered into active Naval service upon such commissioning.
Seniors who are not members of a ROTC unit .might be interested in the recent order issued by the Navy concerning commissions. Seniors may now formally apply for a commission 120 days before they receive their degree instead of the former time, after receiving the degree. Applicants for a Naval commission no longer need the formerly required six semesters of college physics and they need only to have taken mathematics through trigonometry either in high school, college, or university.
Captain J. M. Daly, U.S.M.C., announces that the Marine Corps is accepting applications from college Seniors and graduates for the Marine Corps Officer Course. This course includes a 10-week training period in Officer’s Candidate school and 10 weeks special training as second lieutenants in the Corps.
Captain Daly also wishes to announce that Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen wishing to apply for the Marine Corps Platoon Leaders Program should do so after March 1. No applications will be accepted until that date because of processing work needed for applications already in.
30
The Scholastic
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
This year, the Metropolitan Opera is giving the great tragic epic of Richard Wagner in the complete cycle “The Ring of the Nibelung.” Saturday afternoon will complete the tetralogy with the broadcast of “Gotterdamerung,” which is the climax of the powerful dramatic series. The Ring consists of a prologue called “Das Reingold,” followed by three day long episodes. “Rein-gold” is a prologue to the epic story. The theme which runs throughout the operas is mythical, based on the gold ring of the gods which represent money, greatness, and power, and the divine and human struggle for the ring. The theory of the work is generally opposite to the usual conception of opera. It is left bare of all the flowered externals, and is devoted completely to the exposition and development, through the combination of words and music, of the gods and their place among men. The legend is the explication of basic emotions and ideas, ideas which are eternal on the one hand, and the summation of human abilities and passions on the other. Siegfried’s youthful bravery and innocence is contrasted musically to Wotan’s power and pride.
The Ring was the achievement of Wagner’s wish to elaborate on profound ideas, and it was his belief that such ideas were best shown by portraying humanity without clinging to convention. Hence the reflection of the passions of human nature, and the tragic battle between the human and the divine. The lyric and dramatic qualities are deftly interwoven as they reflect the story, but they live in the music. The Ring is the epitome of the powerful and profound system of Wagner in all its glory as well as its solemn complexity.
The beauty of this great myth lies in the prodigiousness of the artist, even from the technical point of view. When Wagner came upon a melodic idea, he placed it in a symphony or opera and in its development, it will be hinted at in a thousand places, and it will recur in as many forms. Finally the climax will be reached and the full beauty and power is felt. This theme may be developed in endless turns of rhythm and shading until it appears exhausted, and then it is colored, heightened, and finally it is left without its distinguishing features, and it dies away, purposely lost in a last burst of harmony.
There are people who accuse Wagner of every possible crime against music. He has been accused of “not being an
Feb. 16, 1951
Players, Inc.
(Continued from Page 14)
on to Chicago to meet an engagement the next day, but their eager trek to the Windy City was soon halted by roadblocks, snow, ice and sundry other elements.
A deserted motoi’ court provided refuge for the night but early next morning the determined Thespians once again started for Chicago. The cars reached their destination by 5 p.m. that evening but the trucks, loaded with scenery, costumes, make-up, several actors and, of all things, the leading man, were nowhere in sights Frantically, Teddy Kinsey wired back to Dayton instructing them to send the leading man to Chicago by train, but the messages never reached the snowbound vehicles. Finally, about 25 minutes before curtain time, the trucks came rumbling up to the stage entrance and the day was saved.
Concert Halls to Washington Hall
To date, this traveling group has canvassed some 29 states and about that many thousand miles. Reaching points as far west as Omaha and Oklahoma City, and as far south as the hills of Kentucky, the group has performed in buildings that range from plush concert halls to hilltop barns to Washington Hall. But the necessity of adapting their qualities of speech and the set of scenery to halls of various sizes and shapes has made the group all the more versatile and has given them experience which may prove invaluable in their future endeavors. This to the playei- is important, for all will admit, however modestly, that the bright lights and billboards of the “big time” hold for them an overwhelming attraction.
Bob Dietz, for example, who is as brilliant at playing extreme comedy as he is in the rolls of villainous “heavies,” hopes that one day the break will come which will bring him much deserved recognition. During the warm seasons, when not touring with the Players, Bob “barnstorms” with summer-stock companies. He has fond memories of a performance he gave one summer at Cape Cod in which he played opposite Zasu Pitts. He also chuckles as he tells of the greatest compliment ever to be received by the company. It
expert at anything,” romantic, and even bourgeois. This last is incredible to me. If anything, Wagner is powerful, but behind the power there is depth and fullness, and I feel that he should be lauded as an intense, thorough, and vital artist.
happened in Saint Cloud, Minnesota — which held that the Players’ production was the “first good play” they had seen in 20 years — when a high-school . lad came back stage, admitted that he had come to the play only because all . his friends were coming, and gave his critical analysis of the whole spectacle by saying, “It was almost as good as a. movie !”
Those of us who saw Arms and the Man on Wednesday night were amazed and delighted at the interpretation, given to the part of Catherine Petkoff, the daughter, by a sweet young girl named Carol Anthony. Had he been alert the previous night, we would have seen Carol playing the parts of wife of McDuff, an old witch, a son to one of the nobles, a standard bearer and curtain puller at the end of act one. Such, ambition and talent spells out only one thing for this girl — devotion to the art. A five-minute chat with her will convince anyone that her spelling is correct.
Unbeknown to us, the night Carol Anthony and her fellow players presented Shaw’s play in Washington Hall was the most trying performance demanded of them. It marked the nineteenth consecutive night of acting without let-up. The day before their arrival at Notre Dame the guild gave a matinee and evening performance at Indianapolis, traveled up to St. Mary’s for a one-night presentation, and then held a two evening stand at Washington Hall. From here the caravan’ headed up the road to Detroit, thence to cross the international boundary into Windsor, Canada.
To Cut or Not to Cut
All is not work and grind, however, for the Players have as much fun. among themselves as do a summercamp full of high-school kids. The common denominator of all jokes is centered around hair; the girls complain, at the difficulty in keeping theirs washed and the boys go mad because they can’t have theirs cut. The male half of the troup had long threatened to defy necessity by getting crew cuts-Last Christmas, much to the consternation of vice-president Kinsey and company manager Helen Brewer, they did-Can you imagine Macbeth in patent-leather boots, glistening sword and buckler, ermine cloak and a crew cut? Neither could the girls.
Romance, as it is wont to do, has managed to creep into the tiny corporation, nipping one or two of the delighted players. The Telchins are the married couple of the party, Mrs. Telchin being the only one who does not (Continued on Page 23)
31
Now you can get ballroom experience and confidence your very first lesson. Join an Arthur Murray Chib Dance Class. You’ll love the gay informality of these classes and be amazed how quickly you learn all the latest steps. But you must act now before these three special classes are full.
Call 2-3339	Call 2-3339
To enter Your Name for
CLASSES ON
Tuesday, February 20........2.	P. M.
Wednesday, February 21.....—.3	P. M.
Thursday, February 22....... 4	P. M.
so join AH ARTIUR MURRAY
CLUB DANCE CLASS
10 Hours — $ 15.00
ATTENTION: Notre Dame Men—An open letter to YOU!
Gentlemen,
In the past two years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the above three classes at reduced rates! Miss Benbow, our Supervisor, will personally take charge of these NOTRE DAME Classes. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray Mgr.
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange about your dancing lessons.
We Teach All The Dances—You May Have Your Choice of:
• FOX TROT • JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RUMBA
• WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO • MAMBO
Classes on:
Tuesday—February 20, 2 P. M.
Enroll—1-2 P. M.
Wednesday—February 21, 3 P. M.
Enroll—2-3 P. M.
Thursday—February 22, 4 P. M.
Enroll—3-4 P. M.
P. S. If any six or more students want a class at a different Hour or on a different day—Our Women Instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.	.
Call 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. —10:30 P. M. Every Day
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne St.
Above Copp Music Shop
Call 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. —10:30 P. M. Every Day
32
The Scholastic
act. Instead she is the stage manager for Macbeth, handling all sound effects, stage settings, lights and costumes. The youngest love of the crowd lies in the heart of pretty June McCormick, whom we know as the eavesdropping, nimble-witted maid of Arms and the Man. She is also publicity manager of the group, but with all her duties she has still found time to become engaged just a few weeks ago in Chicago. Her fiancee is not with the show but he is obviously not opposed to her occupation, for when asked whether her marriage would mean leaving the company, June answered warmly, “The theater has many traditions and ethical standards which make it the grand profession that it is. We have our own agreement that is as important to us as the old cliches, ‘the show must go on,’ ‘the play’s the thing,’ and the many others. With us it’s ‘never, come what may, never leave the show!’”
Players Incorporated still has 27 states to troup through before they can claim country-wide coverage. They’re willing to book anywhere that the two trucks can take them, give or take a few bumps and breakdowns. Somewhere, someday along the touring line the big break will come. But, until it does, back into the trucks they go and on their merry way.
Annual Aquinas Lecture Series to Begin Sunday
The highly-praised motion picture Christ the King, a newly filmed life of Christ, has been added as a bonus attraction to the Aquinas Lecture series that opens this Sunday at the Progress club, 601 West Colfax avenue.
The series, which will be held each Sunday evening during Lent, opens this Sunday with a novel presentation by the well known Catholic author and composer, Father Richard Ginder. Seated at a piano, Father Ginder will discuss trends in religious music. Other Sunday evening attractions include Dalma Hunyadi, a member of the staff of Cardinal Mindszenty’s newspaper, reporting on conditions behind the Iron Curtain; Father Theophane Maguire, author and expert on China, telling the facts about the Chinese situation; the highly-praised motion picture, Saint Francis of Assisi, which double bills with Christ the King, and a talk by Bishop Leo Pursley, new auxiliary of the Fort Wayne diocese.
Membership in the Aquinas, which not only admit the bearer to all four lectures and the two motion pictures but also give rental library privileges, sell for $2.50. Tickets can be reserved by phoning Aquinas Book Store.
YEARS AGO
------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53---------
Fifty Years Ago
From the Feb. 16, 1901, Scholastic: In interhall basketball Brownson Hall defeated Carroll, 28-13. . . . The members of the Whisker Club presented a variety show to raise funds which were to be used in assisting Tark Main Joyce to grow a beard. Some of the numbers included on the program were “Woowman Spare Those Bushes” by the Zibby Zum Quartette, and an address “Ingrown Hairs and Their Influence on the Aurora Borealis” by the Hon. Luige Oh Rye Lee, Z.I.P. . . . The bimonthly examinations were scheduled for the 23rd and 25th. . . . The Law Society debated the question “Resolved that the United States should interfere in behalf of the Boers.” . . . The Notre Dame debate team scheduled a debate with Indianapolis for. May 26.
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the Feb. 19, 1926, Scholastic: At a dual meet in Chicago between Illinois and Notre Dame, Irish captain Paul Harrington pole vaulted 13 feet 1% inches to set an intercollegiate record. . . . The Notre Dame basketball team defeated Wabash 25-23, and Michigan State 40-25. . . . The University Band appeared at a concert at the Knights of Columbus Hall in South Bend. . . . The swimming team defeated Armour Tech in a dual meet at Chicago 48-12. ... In interhall basketball Howard defeated Brownson 20-7. . . . The hockey team won over Marquette at Milwaukee 2-1.
Ten Years Ago
From the Feb. 14, 1941, Scholastic: Eighty-five students turned out for the Bengal Bouts and were receiving instructions in boxing fundamentals from Dominic Napolitano. The Irish basketball team, undefeated in ten games, was to face New York University that night in Madison Square Garden. . . . The Notre Dame track team defeated Michigan State 84-20, in a dual meet during the week. . . . The hockey team won over Illinois Tech, 7-2. . . . Competing for national honors, 19 doubles teams were entered in an upperclassmen’s bridge tournament. . . . Arctic explorer General Umberto Nobile will come to the University next week to conclude a series of lectures on the “Performance of Airplanes.” . . . Edward H. Stein, Indiana State license commissioner, announced that the colors of Notre Dame, gold and blue, will be used for the 1942 Indiana automobile license plates.
------------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1.-30-5	PHONE 7-1409
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 2-6697
HEALTH SPOT I
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, . Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
Feb. 16, 1951
33

ESSENTIALS EXAMS
Sophomores and upperclassmen who have not passed the Freshman English Essentials examination may take the examination Tuesday, Feb. 20, from 7 to 9 p.m., in Room 252 Main Building. Please bring your ID cards to the examination.
Marriage Institute
For the third semester, the Religion Department is presenting to Notre Dame Seniors and married students the much-needed Marriage Institute. The Institute consists of a series of talks hy various authorities and experienced men on the many phases of married life.
The Marriage Institute is, in our •opinion, the answer to a need that cannot be denied in ^ff^istian education. Most of the men in this University will choose marriage as their state in life. Most of them recognize the seriousness and responsibility of such a state.
But in an era of rapid social change, such as we are experiencing today, the men and women who plan on marriage find themselves in great need of experience and instruction in the practical and theoretical aspects of Christian marriage.
Thanks to Father Lochner, the Department of Religion, and the Marriage Institute, this instruction is being provided. Thanks also to the men and women who have generously given their time and trouble to talk at the Institute, this instruction is geared to the student’s needs.
Marriage is probably the most important human step that a man takes during his lifetime. And for this reason the Marriage Institute is providing a service beyond value to the men of Notre Dame. We highly recommend this Institute to all who are eligible to attend the sessions. And we acknowledge the men who have the foresight and charity to provide it.
Priests Needed •
The Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church are inspiring at Communion time. But the smooth distribution of Holy Communion to students is hampered by a lack of priests. The number of Communicants warrants a larger number of priests on hand at the rail to handle the crowd.
It is too bad that some of the Confessors must leave their boxes to help out at the Communion rail when a more adequate number of priests could conceivably be provided without too much difficulty.
University Theatre
The University of Notre Dame Theatre scored another hit this week with its happy presentation of Mary Chase’s Pulitzer Prize Winner, Harvey.
The tale about the not-so-little rabbit that wasn’t (?) there is the kind of play that depends to an enormous extent upon the principal role — namely, that of Elwood P. Dowd. Any doubts about Richard Simons’ ability to play the difficult role were quickly dispelled.
Simons was the moving spirit of the play. His supporting cast was good, but without his actual presence on the stage they seemed hesitant and slow. Simons kept them to the front of the stage, and he almost seemed to inspire them to the point where they turned in some fine performances.
Especially good were Judy Markus, Philip Nash, and Hildegarde Vargyas. Also particularly good were the portraits, painted by Paula Beane. Staging and direction equalled the pace set last semester in The Man Who Came to Dinner.
Our congratulations to Dick Simons for his delicate handling of a difficult role. He smacked a little too much of James Stewart for our personal taste, but that is only one man’s opinion. And not everyone can be Frank Fay.
And good work also to the entire cast
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
and the men behind the scenes. The cry goes up around campus: “Bring on Mr. and Mrs. Broadway!”
The Last Word
Congratulations to WND and their experimental “Campus Digest” program.
Sociology Club Meets
The Sociology Club will hold its monthly meeting next Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Building. The group will hold a short business meeting.
Charles O’Reilly and Russell Barta will then discuss the results of recent research on the attitudes of Catholic College students on marriage.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
“Rosie’s” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
34
The Scholastic
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
Bringing Up Alathon*
Du Pont scientists find great promise in this young member of the wax family
One of the most interesting and versatile of the new plastics is Du Pont ''Alathon” polythene resin, chemical cousin of paraffin.
Because of its unusual combination of properties, it is now being used in everything from "squeeze-bottles” for toiletries to cable insulation and chemical-resistant linings.
"Alathon” was born when English scientists used high-pressure synthesis to create polythene, the solid and semi-solid polymers of ethylene.
Du Pont scientists and others added their background in high pressure work to the field of ethylene polymers. This concerted effort produced a greatly expanded range of uses.
Taking First Steps
The first step of Du Pont chemists and engineers was to produce polythene in the laboratory to confirm earlier findings. Then the product was turned over to chemical engineers for pilot-plant work. Finally, a plant for full-scale commercial production was designed by chemical, mechanical and electrical engineers and metallurgists.
Many of the most promising uses
Blow-molded "Alathon" bottle, with molded closure. It emits a fine spray when squeezed.
for "Alathon” could not be realized until technical difficulties were overcome. For example, the chemical inertness, which is one of the outstanding properties of the material in film form, also made the casting of film from solution impractical because it could not be dissolved in suitable solvents. In devising a special extrusion technique to solve this problem, Du Pont engineers opened up a whole new field of possibilities.
Multiwall bags for chemicals and foods are made of kraft paper coated with "Alathon.”
Acid-Defying Paper
In film form, "Alathon” lends its strength, chemical inertness and resistance to grease and moisture to packages for chemicals, foods, metal parts and moisture-sensitive powders. In still another form in which these properties are employed, paper coated with "Alathon” is used as wrapping for bakery products and moistureproof containers for chemicals that would attack uncoated paper. (Experimentally, "Alathon” coated paper has been exposed to concentrated sulfuric acid for days without harm; the same paper, uncoated, was ruined within a few minutes.)
The protection of "Alathon” was extended to metal tanks and drums when Du Pont engineers developed a spray-flaming coating technique.
In the field of electricity, too, "Alathon” is proving of great value. Its outstanding electrical properties
All "Alathan"—ice-cube trays, refrigerator bowls, tableware and protective coverings.
Pipa made of "Alathon” is used for handling corrosive chemicals, solutions and gases.
make it an ideal insulator for wire and cable, particularly in the high-frequency applications necessary in television and radar.
"Alathon” in powder form is used for molding a wide range of light, tough and flexible plastic articles. In addition to bottles, these include tumblers, dishes, jar caps and icecube trays. Extruded as a film, it serves for garment covers, tablecloths and rainwear.
The future looks bright for "Alathon.” New applications such as extruded pipe for mines and separators for storage batteries seem about to be realized. Other uses yet undreamed of will no doubt emerge from the close, continuous teamwork of technical men that typifies Du Pont research.	•REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
DID YOU KNOW ...
six out of ten Ou Pont plant managers and superintendents started with the company as chemists, analysts, technicians or engineers.
HEG.U.S.PAXOFE
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Feb. 16, 1951
35
Make the Tobacco Growers Mildness Test yourself..."Tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder"
p
3
Its the Easiest Test in the Book...
OPEN ’EM • SMELL ’EM SMOKE ’EM

Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking...Open a pack...smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.
Now smoke Chesterfields-they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE
★ Virginia Mayo enjoys her coffee and o Chesterfield v.hile the hairdresser arranges her hair between scenes in the shooting of "CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER'
Virginia Mayo™/ Gregory Peck
‘Tt’-.ifai'nny in
"CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER"
jL 'Harner JiTe-t^^PrwlucliDn T'cEvr 6u ^Jcc/iniaTor-
fields make a hit with me.
They're Milder and leave no unpleasant after-taste?

co h osii m T Smells MILDER* Smokes MILDER* Leaves no unpleasantafter-taste Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.	—	— —	■